Lessons for April JANUARY 1946.VOL 33 NO 1 JANUARY 1946 THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Monthly publication of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints RELIEF SOCIETY GENERAL BOARD Belle S. Spafford - Marianne C. Sharp = Gertrude R. Garff - Margaret C. Pickering - - - President, First Counselor - Second Counselor - Secretary-Treasurer Achsa E. Paxman Anna B. Hart Florence J. Madsen Blanche B. Stoddard Mary G. Judd Edith S. Elliott Ann P. Nibley Evon W. Peterson Luella N. Adams Priscilla L. Evans Leone G. Layton Leone O. Jacobs Velma N. Simonsen RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Editor - - - - - - Marianne GC. Sharp Editorial Secretary - - - - - - - - Vesta P. Crawford General Manager ~ - - - - - - - - Belle S. Spafford Vol. 33 JANUARY 1946 No. 1 Contents Frontispiece Picture General Presidency of Relief Society 2 New Year's Greeting S. Spafford 3 Margaret Cummock Pickering ---------Amy Brown Lyman 4 Award Winners—Eliza Roxey Snow Memorial Prize Poem Contest 6 Star of Gold—First Prize Poem Eva Willes Wangsaard 7 I Shall Be Late—Second Prize Poem...---------- Betty Wall Madsen 9 The Good Inheritance—Third Prize Poem ----Caroline Eyring Miner 10 Award Winners—Relief Society Short Story Contest 12 Spring Festival—First Prize Story Mary Ek Knowles 13 Nicholas G. Smith A Tribute Elder Marion G. Romney 20 Drifting—Or Sailing io 4 Charted Course Lella Marler Hoggan 22 Unceasing Crusade National Foundation For Infantile Paralysis 26 Mormonism In the Eyes of the Press: Dolly Madison and the Outcast Mormons Elder James R. Clark 28 Let Us Fittingly Mark the Land Elder Howard R. Driggs 31 And For Eternity—Chapter 8 Sixty Years Ago 36 Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon 37 Editorials: Be Not Weary in Well Marianne C. Sharp 38 Howard S. McDonald Inaugurated President of Brigham Young University ----39 Blanche B. Stoddard Resigns as General Secretary-Treasurer 40 - In Memoriam: Elder Joseph J. Cannon and Elder Burton K. Farnsworth .. 40 Notes to the Field: Only One Relief Society Conference to be Held Each Year …41 Only One Relief Society Assigned Evening Meeting Fast Sunday in March.. Suggestions to Contributors…42 Notes From the Field: Messages Siw the Missions —Margaret C. Pickering General Secretary-Treasurer 50 LESSON DEPARTMENT Theology: The United Order Begun and Its Establishment in the Settlements Dr. H. Wayne Driggs 56. Visiting Teachers' Messages: Charity Hopeth All Things, Charity Endureth All Things ------Dr. Lowell L. Bennion 60 Social Science: Some Broader Applications of Social Ethics......-------Dr. Harold T. Christensen POETRY The Infinite—Frontispiece Grace Sayre After A While ------..... Maude Hatch Benedict 21 Elijah ~~ Alice Morrey Bailey 24 The Weight of Your Cloud Edna S. Dustin 27 Shopping For a Doll  Hazel Jones Owen Promise ----Christie Lund Coles 35 I Know a Road Violent Harris Hendrickson 43... I know a Road Violet Harris Hendrickson 43 Hill Woman...Maude Blixt Trone The Morning Star Courtney E Cottam 71Letter Nan S. Richardson 72 PUBLISHED MONTHLY BY THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY Editorial and Business Offices: 22 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City 1, Utah, Phone 3.2741. Ex. 243. Subscription Price: $1.00 a year; foreign, $1.00 a year; payable in advance. Single copy, 10c. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving both old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts. MAGAZINE CIRCULATION, 74,000 THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE THE INFINITE Grace Sayre Where day has swept her silken sails of gold The sunset sky holds brightly bannered light; Beneath the evening's fast-diminishing glow The wet sand hollows lie in saucered mold. Upon the rocky ledge here at my hand I reach to lift a star-beam from the pool Of saucered sand, and dip my finger tips To place it on a shelving rock to cool. I lift my two cupped hands, high up, to hold The star that slips through trickling sands of gold. Where does this beauty go, when tides have cleaned The star-beams from each hollowed spot of sand? Why does the tide sweep loveliness away When I have held the universe in my hand? I can but trust my world to him to hold Who made the stars, the tides, the ocean's gold. The Cover: "Silhouette of Trees" from a photograph by Grace O. Tuttle. VOL. 33, NO. 1 JANUARY 1946 GENERAL PRESIDENCY OF RELIEF SOCIETY President Belle S. Spafford, Counselors Marianne C. Sharp and Gertrude R. Garff New Year's Greetings N behalf of the General Board of Relief Society we extend love and 8) New Year's greetings to Relief Society members throughout the world, and we pray that this new year will bring them comfort, spiritual strength, and j joy. Relief Society women, like everyone else the world over, have passed through dark days during the past war years. They have had difficult and heartbreaking experiences, but they have met these experiences with a fortitude born of faith—a faith that God was at the helm directing in the affairs of men and that ultimately right would triumph over wrong. They have worked and prayed. They have been courageous in their individual lives. They have bound up the brokenhearted and have earnestly sought after peace. And the spirit of God has been upon them even as it was upon Isaiah of old when he bound up the brokenhearted. They have been given strength according to their faith as was Alma when he broke the prison cords unto deliverance. And now the new year is upon us. The mighty nations have bidden their armies to lay down their weapons of war. For this we are truly grateful and we acknowledge the goodness of our Heavenly Father. But we also know that the new year, too, will exact of us strong faith, great courage, devotion to human welfare and a continued striving for peace. 5 This is a time when we might with profit read the vision of Lehi when he beheld a rod of iron which extended along the bank of the river and led to the tree by which he stood. And the iron rod was the word of God which led to the fountain of living waters, or to the tree of life; which waters were a representation of the love of God. And many caught hold of the rod of iron but did not hold fast and were drowned in the depths of the fountain, and many loosed their hold and wandered into strange roads and were lost (I Nephi 11). Only as we cling fast to the iron rod will we be secure. As we cling fast to the word of God, the spirit of God will attend us, his love will be poured forth upon us; we will receive strength and courage according to our needs, and we shall have peace, that true inner peace, that quietness and assurance which the Prophet Isaiah told us was the work of righteousness. And our righteousness shall be a leaven unto the wickedness of the world. We shall be like a lamp that burneth in the darkness, and "Gentiles shall see our righteousness and kings our glory." The prayers of the General Board are ever with the sisters of the Relief Society whether they abide in our own or foreign lands, May we all so conduct our lives that nothing will stand between us and the blessings we seek at God's hands. Belle S. Spafford Marianne C. Sharp Gertrude R. Garff, General Presidency. Page 3 Margaret Cummock Pickering President Amy Brown Lyman MARGARET Cummock Pickering, appointed General Secretary-Treasurer of the Relief Society October 31, 1945, is well known in both the Church and the community as an untiring, efficient, and willing worker. In Church and other humanitarian Causes, and in the promotion of civic enterprise and improvements, she has given so fully of her time and talents that it has been said of her that "she majors in volunteer service." In her new and responsible calling her best effort will be put forth to carry forward the important work and other duties thus assigned to her and to maintain high standards; and she will bring to this position a wealth of knowledge and experience which will be helpful to Relief Society women in solving their practical problems. A devoted Latter-day Saint, Sister Pickering has cheerfully accepted calls made of her by the Church, and she has performed faithfully every duty and responsibility these important calls have placed upon her. While she has served in various Church Capacities, her chief work has been in connection with the Reer of the Relief Society of the South Eighteenth W. Ard, and also of the General Secretary-Treasurer at Relief Society headquarters, Her civic and community activities have been unusually varied and extensive. Because of her wide acquaintance, her Organizing ability, and her willingness to render Service, she has been an important factor in the work of many State and local agencies. She was the first executive secretary of the Woman's Civic Center, where she helped to organize and establish this worthy and helpful institution; the first secretary of the Utah State Society For Mental Hygiene; a member of the executive committee of the Community Chest, which agency she has continuously supported; and for many years she has served as a director of Robertson Cummock who accepted the gospel message in far-away Scotland and left their home to emigrate man of ability and head of the Pickering Advertising Agency. MARGARET CUMMOCK PICKERING He is a cultured, kindly gentleman, devoted to his wife and home and always ready and willing to support her in all her work and undertakings. Sister Pickering received her  education in the public schools of Salt Lake City and the Latter-day Saints College from which she was graduated. She has also taken special courses at the Utah State Agricultural College and at the University of Utah. I first met Margaret Cummock when, as a young girl, she was employed at the general headquarters of the Young Men's Mutual Improvement Association as office secretary, and I was serving in the headquarters of the Relief Society as General Secretary. At that time, the general offices of the Y. M. M. I. A. Were located on the south side of the second floor of the Bishop's Building, and those of the Relief Society on the north side, with only the long hall separating them. Margaret was, for a number of years, a worker in the Era office, where she very naturally became intimately associated with us Relief Society workers across the hall, and greatly interested in our work. She was in and out of our offices as we planned the publication and launched the Relief Society Bulletin in 1914, and The Relief Society Magazine in 1915. Our group of Relief Society workers at that time included, among others, Aunt Em Wells, General President, Susa Young Gates, and Jeanette A. Hyde, editor and business manager, respectively, of The Relief Society Magazine. I am sure it was during these early years of her life that Margaret learned to love, understand, and appreciate the work of the great Relief Society organization which has all through the years been so dear to her. MARGARET CUMMOCK PICKERING Margaret was fortunate in her office experience, having been assigned principally to the editorial department of the Era when she worked under the direction of that scholarly and faithful Latter-day Saint and editor, Edward H. Anderson. The work she was doing also brought her in close and frequent contact with many of the General Authorities of the Church, including President Heber J. Grant who at that time was personally supervising the financial affairs of the Era. President Grant was, therefore, a frequent caller at the Era office where he checked and examined records and reports and dictated letters. I heard him say many times in those days that no one else could please him quite so well in taking and transcribing dictation as could Margaret Cummock. This association with prominent Church workers was a fine influence in her life, and, no doubt, her knowledge of the gospel was increased and her testimony strengthened. (Concluded on page 27) Award Winners Eliza Roxey Snow Memorial Prize Poem Contest HE Relief Society General Board is pleased to announce the names of the three prize winners in the 1945 Eliza R. Snow Memorial Prize Poem Contest. This contest was announced in the June 1945 issue of the Magazine and closed September 15, 1945. The first prize of twenty dollars is awarded to Eva Willes Wangsgaard, 818 28th Street, Ogden, Utah, for her poem "Star of Gold." The second prize of fifteen dollars is awarded to Betty Wall Madsen, 1066 East 9th South, Salt Lake City, for her poem "I Shall Be Late." The third prize of ten dollars is awarded to Caroline Eyring Miner, Bunkerville, Nevada, for her poem "The Good Inheritance." This poem contest has been conducted annually by the Relief Society General Board since 1923 in honor of Eliza R. Snow, second general president of Relief Society. The contest is open to all Latter-day Saint women and is designed to encourage poetry writing, and to increase appreciation for creative writing and the beauty and value of poetic verse. Prize-winning poems are the property of the Relief Society General Board and may not be used for publication by others except upon written permission from the General Board. The General Board reserves the right to publish any of the other poems submitted, paying for them at the time of publication at the regular Magazine rate. A writer who has received the first prize for two consecutive years must wait two years before she is again eligible to enter the contest. There were sixty-seven poems submitted in this year's contest, entries coming from many of the states, as well as from Alaska, Canada, Australia, and England. The General Board congratulates the prize winners and expresses appreciation to all entrants for their interest in the contest and the general excellence of the work submitted. The Board wishes, also, to thank the three judges for their care and diligence in selecting the prize-winning poems. The assistance of the poetry committee of the General Board is very much appreciated. The prize-winning poems, together with photographs of the prize winning contestants, are published herewith. BS Page 6 Prize- (inning (Poems Eliza Roxey Snow Memorial Prize Poem Contest EVA WILLES WANGSGAARD First Prize Poem Star of Gold Eva Willes Wangsgaard 1 — My neighbor's Where last year window frames a golden stat hung its counterpart in blue, A sharp reminder of one gone too fat To walk again the friendly street he knew. Long weeks ago his mother hung it there And still the dusk of grief is in her eyes And loneliness impossible to share Ox mitigate by kneeling where he lies. She neither dwells upon him nor evades The mention of his name when others ask; Though memory wounds each day with deeper blades, She goes with normal mien from task to task. At what a cost her courage has been won! I've seen her hang her pillow in the sun. Page 7 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JANUARY 1946 II — This star is many sons in one to her: A gurgling baby showing his first tooth, A tear-stained youngster pleading for a cur, A proud boy scout, a gangling, earnest youth. She knew his untried strength, his zest for life, Ideals he thought worth fighting to uphold, The girl he loved and hoped to make his wife And sharp cessation in this star of gold. To me, it is a symbol of the loss Of myriads of men who went beyond The lonely foxhole to the small white cross In Libyan sands or brushed by tropic frond. Oh, modern wise men, kneel in reverence Before this star and offer recompense! III — The roaring wings that tore the world apart And made a mockery of miles and weather Can fly the lanes of peace and make a start Toward landing fields where all men walk together As neighbors should. Then, though he lies in sands Long burned by suns, or under shaggy palm Or chestnut tree or where the linden stands, His timeless sleeping shall be sound and calm. There was another star, another cross, Another wound that grew a rose as red; They hold the answer to my neighbor's loss. This star can lead us as the other led The shepherd's feet. Though high the goal and far, Can we deny the beckoning of a star? Eva Willes Wangsgaard, Ogden, Utah, is the author of three books of poetry: Singing Hearts, Down This Road, and After the Blossoming. Her poems have appeared in many national periodicals including the American Mercury, the Saturday Evening Post, the New York Times, and the Washington D. C. Post, and in such poetry magazines as Wings, Spirit, and the Florida Magazine of Verse. She placed first in the Huckelberry Mountain Colony's Poetry Contest in 1943, the only time in the history of the contest when all five of the judges chose the same poem. There were 1500 entries. Mrs. Wangsgaard has won awards in many other contests, including: The Deseret News Christmas Poetry Contest, 1938, 1939, 1940, and 1942; first in the Eliza R. Snow Memorial Prize Poem Contest in 1941 and second in 1938; first in the Utah Federation of Women's Clubs Poetry Contest, 1939; first in the League of Utah Writer's Poetry Contest 1940 and 1942, and second in 1941. Her poem "To Betsy Ross" first published in the New York Herald-Tribune, June 14, 1945, was reprinted in various newspapers and broadcast on the "World Homemakers" program from Chicago on "V-J" Day. Wife of David Wangsgaard, Assistant Superintendent of Ogden City Schools, Mrs. Wangsgaard is the mother of three children, the oldest a first lieutenant stationed in Tokyo. PRIZE-WINNING POEMS BETTY WALL MADSEN Second Prize Poem AC Shall Be Late Betty Wall Madsen Blue shadow-fingers Testing on the hills, Will bind m y heart more strongly than a chain, And April's arms in sleeves of daffodils Will reach fo € sweetest of Celestial bel] s be ringing, 'T shall turn back to hear one robin singing. 10 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JANUARY 1946 Betty Wall Madsen was born in Mt. Pleasant, Utah. She attended Wasatch Academy in her home town and Snow Academy in Ephraim, where she was editor of the Yearbook. Her poetry has appeared in Pictorial Review, Ted Malone's Scrapbook, the Improvement Era, and other publications. She placed first in the Art Barn Annual Poetry Contest 1944-45; first in the Utah Federation of Women's Clubs Poetry Contest 1942 and 1943; first in the National Thanksgiving Association Poetry Contest, 1944; and first in the Deseret News Christmas Poetry Contest, 1943. Mrs. Madsen is the wife of E. Wallace Madsen, who is now in the United States Navy. The Madsens are the parents of a five-year-old daughter. CAROLINE EYRING MINER Third Prize Poem She Good Inheritance Caroline Eyring Miner I — Earth All this is mine: the warm and fertile earth That yearns to yield her body to the seed Of purpling grape, of grain, of flower; the speed Of swallow darting through the dusk to find His mate; the miracle of human birth; The beauty of the changing sky; the need Of sun and rain for growth; the slender reed That trails the stream and sways against the wind And echoes back all songs the world has known; The hour when the sun has set, and light Along the mountains frames one Star alone; The heat of summer and the shade's delight. All this, the earth, the sea, the sky, in mood Both gay and sad, God gave, and called it good. II — Democracy The love of man for man is at the core Of all; it is the song upon the lips; The anguished cry that mothers give, that more tom heart than voice emerges, and so grips Was blessed for use of common man; a low, But certain call in England's monarchy, € glorious anthem of democracy. III — Religious Freedom Almost a century ago they came, Brave fighting hearts, wending their weary way is the quiet peace the warbler knows That sits atop the tallest branch to Test, Surveying berry patch and garden rows And the unfathomed teaches of the sky, with mystery and wonder in his eye. Accuracy of expression. Vada, where her husband children, PRIZE-WINNING POEMS 11 Award Winners Annual Relief Society Short Story Contest THE Relief Society General Board is pleased to announce the names of the award winners in the short story contest which was announced in the June 1945 issue of the Magazine and which closed September 1 19MSThe first prize of thirty-five dollars is awarded to Mary Ek Knowles, 1025 Darling Street, Ogden, Utah, for her story "Spring Festival." The second prize of twenty-five dollars is awarded to Alice Morrey Bailey, 256 Iowa Street, Salt Lake City, for her story "The Ring of Strength." The third prize of fifteen dollars is awarded to Irva Pratt Andrus, 130 West 4th North, Provo, Utah, for her story "All Is Known." This short story contest, first conducted by the Relief Society General Board in 1941 as a feature of the centennial observance, was made an annual contest in 1942. The contest is open only to Latter-day Saint women who have had at least one literary composition published or accepted for publication by the editor of a publication of recognized merit. The three prize-winning stories are to be published consecutively in the first three issues of the Magazine for 1946. Prize-winning stories become the property of the General Board and may not be published by others except by written permission from the General Board. The General Board reserves the right to publish Page 12 any of the other stories entered in the contest, paying for them at the regular Magazine rate at the time of publication. A writer who has received first prize for two consecutive years must wait two years before she is again eligible to enter the contest. Twenty-five manuscripts were submitted in the contest for 1945. This contest was initiated to encourage Latter-day Saint women to express themselves in the field of fiction. The General Board feels that the response to this opportunity will continue to increase the literary quality of The Relief Society Magazine and will aid the women of the Church in the development of their gifts in creative writing. The General Board congratulates the prize-winning contestants and expresses appreciation to all whose work was entered in the contest. Sincere gratitude is extended to the three judges for their discernment and skill in selecting the prize-winning stories. The General Board also acknowledges with appreciation the work of the short story committee for their supervision of the contest. Stories, together with photographs of the award-winning contestants, will appear in the Magazine as follows: January 1946, "Spring Festival" by Mary Ek Knowles; February 1946, "The Ring of Strength" by Alice Morrey Bailey; March 1946, "All Is Known" by Irva Pratt Andrus. Prize-Winning Story Annual Relief Society Short Story Contest First Prize Story Spring Festival Mary Ek Knowles IT was Josef Straubel's fiftieth birthday, but he had forgotten all about that. As he stood on the corner of Main and Second Street waiting for his bus, his mind was troubled with last minute anxieties concerning the Spring Festival which was to be presented at eight o'clock that evening. Again he went over the program, his head moving slowly from side to side like a metronome as mentally he checked off each act. The kindergarten class— A Spring Flower Garden . . . first grade— Presenting Robin Red Breast . . . second grade . . . and so on down the program to seventh grade— Violin Solo— Mendelssohn's "Spring Song"— Greta Johanson. The program must be a success! Mr. Jessop and Mr. Bard of the school board were going to be there. Maybe if they saw how hard everyone had worked to make the Festival a success despite the handicap of only an antiquated gymnasium in which to present the program, they would see that Lincoln School got an auditorium. Doubts chilled Josef. The red velvet curtains donated by Mrs. O'Toole were very heavy. Would the wire stretched across one end of the gym hold! The spotlight— pray that Benny Lee controlled the imp in him, and kept it trained on the stage. Would the audience grow tired sitting on the backless benches? What if the fifth grade a cappella choir sang off key. And Greta Johanson— could he depend on her or would the weakness he had detected in h er character betray them at the last moment! 14 So Josef worried, and then suddenly a warm breeze caressed his cheek, and, rising above the confusion of the busy street, the smell of oil and gasoline, there was the scent of hyacinths. A crowded bus parked at the curb whizzed away and for a moment Josef's view was unobstructed. Across the street was the public square, like a painting done in water colors, hyacinths, lacy maple trees, a flowering almond bush, a golden forsythia, bright as sunshine. Josef breathed deep and his blood tingled. It was spring again. The opening bars of "Spring Song'— pianissimo, and with much expression—danced through his brain. One hand fell to his side, his fingers drummed out the notes on his trouser leg. In that moment Josef felt that the Festival would be a success. Lincoln School would get its auditorium. His heart was singing the "Spring Song" now, his fingers moving rapidly, crescendo, fortissimo... A shiny black car drove up to the curb and blotted out spring. A tall, heavy-set man got out. He slammed the car door, and gave clipped orders to his chauffeur. Then he turned. Josef saw his face, and his memory fumbled around like fingers searching for the right key on the piano. There was something familiar about the thin-lipped mouth, the square jaw. The man pushed his way through the crowd like a football player carrying the ball. Josef's memory found the right key, and the note was clear and true. Henry Biglow! Forward on the Camden University team, class of 1914! "Henry!" Josef called. "Henry Biglow!" RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JANUARY 1946 The man stopped and looked back. Josef hurried forward, smiling. "Henry, you old culprit! Are you?" Henry Biglow frowned down at Josef, ignoring the outstretched hand. Then, slowly, recognition dawned, and he started to laugh, softly at first, then a roaring laugh so that people turned and stared. "Josef Straubel! What are you doing in Sanford?" "Tm teaching music at Lincoln School." "In the slums! Why, the last time I saw you, you were all set with a scholarship at Boston Conservatory of Music. What happened?" OSEF did not answer. He remembered the scholarship, and how young and eager he had been, and the memory was like the sweet strains of some forgotten melody. How to tell Henry Biglow that an undersized kid in a ragged, striped jersey had changed his plans. A skinny kid saying, "Mr. Straubel, you ain't goin' away, are yu?" "Still the idealist, aren't you?" Henry's laugh cut deep, and his small black eyes missed nothing. He took his hand out of his pocket, and Josef saw the diamond on his little finger sparkle. 'Well, I'm still the hardheaded realist. Get what I mean? Bye!" Still laughing, he pushed his way through the crowd. Yes, Josef "got" what his former classmate had meant. "You be an idealist," Henry used to say in those college days. "I'll be a realist, and we'll see who comes out on top." Josef winced as he remembered the scorn in Biglow's voice. Somehow he had never thought of his life in terms of failure or success. SPRING FESTIVAL Time had passed so rapidly, days into weeks, weeks into months, and suddenly there were years, thirty of them. He remembered then that today was his birthday and he was fifty years old. He saw his reflection in the plate glass of the hotel door. It was not reassuring. He saw a short fat man in a shabby black suit, the jacket of which was stretched almost to the breaking point so that the top button could be buttoned. A gray felt hat of ancient vintage was perched atop his head. Under his left arm he carried a portfolio full to bursting. His right hand toyed with a fraternity pin dangling from the watch chain looped across his vest. He heard someone say, "There's the Willowcreek bus now!" He remembered the Spring Festival and that if he missed this bus he would have to wait a half hour for another. He ran for the bus. Josef Straubel lived at No. 7 Gunnel Court. The advertisement had described the house as within easy walking distance of town, furnished. Josef, the graduate, had found the rent cheap, the house a two-room frame, small, but with a bit of rearranging, large enough for his baby grand piano, his books and his music. Plenty good enough to live in for the short time until he went to Boston. He had paid a month's rent in advance. He had stayed thirty years. The light was on, and when Josef opened the door and walked into the small crowded front room, Mrs. Hennessey, his landlady, came out of the tiny kitchen, a spoon in her hand, a starched percale apron covering her ample form. "Hope you don't mind my just barging in like this," she said, "with you gone and all. But it was getting late, and I knew you'd be rushed, what with your big program and all, so I come over and brought you a bit of stew and a piece of rhubarb "That was very kind of you!" Warmth for Mrs. Hennessey with her friendly manner, and her gray hair crimped about her big face, filled him. He had a sudden impulse to tell Mrs. Hennessey what Henry Bigelow had said. After all he had known her for thirty years. He would tell her 'a she would say, "Well, the high and mighty, who does he think he is, anyhow!" And they would laugh, and the feeling that swept over him like nausea every time he remembered what Henry had said would go away. He opened his mouth to speak, then shut it again. He just wanted to forget the whole thing. He laid his portfolio on the grand piano, tossed his hat on a chair. "Come, eat up, now," Mrs. Hennessey said as she walked back into the kitchen. "Get the food while it's hot!" JOSEF saw that Mrs. Hennessey had straightened the lean-to kitchen, washed the breakfast dishes and set the narrow table. He went to the sink, ran water into the enamel basin, and washed his hands and face. "I ironed your shirt, but I told Pa, 'Hennessey,' I said, 'how much longer Mr. Straubel thinks this shirt'll last I don't know.” Had to patch it again on the elbow. And your suit! It's that shiny in the seat!" Through the mirror Josef saw her 16 stand with hands on her broad hips. "Grew Brothers are havin' a sale this week. Good white shirts $1.97 and suits $25.89. Whyn't you let me buy you some clothes? You only have to pay five down and five a month." Josef suppressed a groan. Money, money! Somehow he never had enough to go around. This month he'd be lucky if he had enough left over to pay his rent and buy food. There was the bill at Kendall Music Company, the last payment on the loan at Friendly Credit. He smiled ruefully at himself in the mirror and the lines at the corners of his mouth deepened. "I’ll have to do that, Mrs. Hennessey. One of these days I'll have to do that." "And where have I heard that before!" Mrs. Hennessey threw a jacket around her shoulders, and her face was red. "It's just about time, Josef Straubel, that you started thinkin' of yourself for a change. So all-fired generous with them students of yourn. And do they appreciate it! Mark my words, someday you'll be sorry you was such a soft touch!" "Next month, Mrs. Hennessey. Next month I'm going to outfit myself like a dude. You'll see!" "W ell—we'll just see." Mrs. Hennessey hesitated, her hand on the front doorknob, her voice gentler. "Hope your program goes off all right, and you get your auditorium." "Thank you, Mrs. Hennessey." Left alone, Josef stood in the center of the room and looked around him. The room seemed to have shrunk in size. The piano took almost half the space. Everywhere were books, filling the three-shelf bookcase, piled on top, stacked on RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JANUARY 1946 the floor in the corner. Music was piled on the piano—music for operettas, choruses, a half-completed Christmas cantata. Photographs of former students were hung on the wall above the piano. Somewhere among the clutter was a letter informing Josef Straubel that he had won a scholarship. He had placed it there that spring day long ago. He had come home from school with Eddie Thompson's words ringing in his ears, he had thought, I'll stay on at Lincoln just long enough to help straighten Eddie out. Thirty years, he thought, and this is all I have. This and a pile of debts, a worn suit and a patched shirt. It was so still that the ticking of the clock on the wall sounded loud. He remembered the Spring Festival. If only Lincoln got its auditorium, then it would be as if the days and weeks and months of that thirty years were blended into a triumphant song. WHEN he reached Lincoln School, the lights were on, and cars were parked on both sides of the street for blocks. All the fears came back, and he hurried through the side door, down the long hall that smelled of chalk and that oil peculiarly' like citronella. He opened the door of room one. Paperclad children rushed to him. "Here's Mr. Straubel now!" Miss Deal smiled toothily. "They were afraid you might muss the bus!" Josef saw Robin Red Breast, the members of the a cappella choir, the flower garden... But no Greta Johanson. "Where's Greta?" he asked. SPRING FESTIVAL Miss Deal looked worried. "I haven't seen her. It's getting late, too!" He went to look for her, the apprehension within him deepening. He couldn't depend on her, then. All these months had been for nothing! I he passed the music room, a voice called to him. "Oh, here you are Greta!"' Relief swept over him. Greta held her violin tight in her hands. "Mr. Straubel, I'm scared. All those people out there, all those faces watching me. What if I forget the music, what if I play off key!" So it was only stage fright. Josef looked at Greta's broad, pale face, saw the fear in her blue eyes. He saw, too, the new blue taffeta dress, obviously homemade, yet covering so proudly the tall lanky body. He took her hand in his. It was like ice. "Greta," he said kindly, "listen to me. I know what you can do. I know that you are going to forget everything but your violin and the song you want it to play. You're going to be a big success, Greta." She looked at him for a long moment, and seemed to draw strength from his words. She smiled. "I'll try awful hard, Mr. Straubel." The small gym was so crowded that people were sitting in the windows, standing in doorways. He saw Mr. Jessop and Mr. Bard sitting on chairs right in front. Mr. Jessop looked over the crowd, then bent and whispered to Mr. Bard. This should convince them we need an auditorium, Josef thought. He stood before the orchestra and raised his baton. He led them through the overture, held his breath 17 as two brown elves pulled back the red velvet drapes. But the wire held firm, and for the next hour and a half Josef forgot himself, he forgot Henry Biglow. The show was going over. One by one the acts came on, did their parts, bowed their way out to enthusiastic applause. And soon it was the last act. Greta Johanson stood before them, and as she played, Josef listened with the critical ear of a musician, He heard clear tone, a sureness of touch. But there was something else, too, an emotion that was Greta's own, that something that no teacher, no matter how excellent, could give her. He looked at Greta. There was something regal about the lanky figure in the cheap dress. He remembered Greta as she was that day two years ago when he kept her after class. "Don't you like music, Greta?" Her defiant attitude during class had been very noticeable. "Music!" she sneered. Her childish face was thick with make-up, her hair a tangled mop, her clothes too tight, too short on her tall body. Jors= had said nothing, but sometimes when the orchestra was playing, he had seen a look in Greta's eyes. He once took his violin from the top of the piano and played a few bars of Schubert's "Serenade." Greta was at his side. "That's what I wanna do," she choked. "Play the violin!" "Then why don't you?" "You kiddin'?" Her eyes filled with tears. "My old man ain't got enough money to feed us, let alone buy me a violin." "I have an inexpensive violin I could let you borrow, and I could give you the first lessons." Josef came back to the present as "The Spring Song" ended with two perfectly blended chords played softly. Since then there had been times when Greta had been unpredictable, unstable, but now he knew suddenly that she was going to be all right. There was a moment's hushed silence, then the audience burst into thunderous applause. Josef arose, satisfaction for a job well done filling him. Lincoln would get its auditorium. He turned to see Mr. Jessop and Mr. Bard walking out the side door. People were filing out without so much as a backward glance. In a surprisingly short time, the crowd was gone, and Josef was alone standing by the piano, his hand outstretched. He sank down weakly on the piano stool. He had been mistaken, then, and the program hadn't been a success. Even in this he was a failure. Disappointment was like a heavy stone crushing him. "Mr. Straubel, please!" Josef turned. A woman stood beside him. A red kerchief was tied over her head, a shabby black coat was draped on her tall form. Her work-worn hands were clasped tight before her. "Oh—hello, Mrs. Johanson." She spoke with a thick accent. "Mr. Straubel. I come to thank you. Tonight I sit there, I listen my Greta play, I think, so is she now, sweet and good, playing like a musician on the radio, yet. But so it was not always. How many nights I wait up, not knowing where is Greta—" "Greta was never bad, Mrs. Johanson," Josef defended. "It was RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JANUARY 1946 just that she had this restlessness, this—all she needed was to have that great energy directed into the right channels." "Yah, I know! But nobody knew how to doit. Nobody but you—" "I just loaned her my violin—" "Nah! You not have one to loan. You buy her one." "Such an inexpensive one!" "You not foolin' me. Professor Lanz, he say it a good one.. Yah, I know. To everyone else Professor Lanz is three dollars, to mine Greta fifty cents." Tears were running down her lined face. Embarrassed, Josef looked away from her. "Someday we pay you back, Mr. Straubel. But now—all I can give you is a mother's blessin'. God bless you, Mr. Straubel!" She turned and hurried out of the gymnasium. Josef Straubel stared in the direction in which she had gone. It was true, of course. For eighteen months he had been paying for her lessons. From the first he had known Greta had unusual talent. How could he see it go to waste? Since that day when little Eddie looked up at him so pleadingly, he had not been able to turn a gifted child away. He had never tried to put the thought into words before, but now it came to him that the soul of a wayward child was like music played in discord, but if the melody could be found, then it would be like a symphony. He thought of the different students he had known. "Incorrigibles," he had heard them called. Never had he failed to reach them through music. Bob Ginsburg—the cornet had appealed to him. Marie Serpentine—the accordion for her. Sammy Lewis... Mose Washington. SPRING FESTIVAL Mose had been a puzzler until Josef saw the look on his ebony face when the drummer went through his tricks. The money it had cost him, he had not missed. A few minutes later he was walking home through the spring night. "Josef Straubel," he told himself, "Henry Biglow was right. You're fifty years old, and a failure." But he didn't care. He knew that if he had his life to live over, he would do just as he had done. He was sorry about the auditorium, but somehow they'd manage. He knew the quiet peace of a man who has found his destiny. It was late when he reached the small house. He turned the key in 19 the lock, opened the door. Lights flashed on, the night rang with cries of, "Happy Birthday!" Josef stood quite still, his hand on the doorknob. He saw the faces of students, teachers, the smiling face of Mrs. Hennessey. On the kitchen table was a birthday cake, and gifts stacked high. Mr. Jessop and Mr. Bard came toward him smiling, and he knew that Lincoln School would get its auditorium. In that moment he would not have traded places with all the Henry Biglows in the world. The little house was full, so full that it seemed the walls would burst, yet even so, not so full as Josef Straubel's heart. Mary Ek Knowles of Ogden, Utah, is the wife of Roland C. Knowles and the mother of three children. Her parents are Mr. And Mrs. Alma Ek of Merced, California. Mrs. Knowles has been writing professionally for a number of years. Her story "The Gold Watch" won third prize in the 1942 Relief Society Short Story Contest. Three of her stories have placed in the Salt Lake Tribune Contest, one of them receiving first prize. In addition to local publications, the literary work of Mrs. Knowles has appeared in magazines of national circulation and she is at present planning a novel. She is a member of the Ogden Twenty-third Ward choir and assists the literature class leader in Relief Society work. BS There is in reality no such thing as an unmusical person. Even the deaf feel vibrations. Some people have their feelings for music pent up in them, are musically tongue-tied, unable to produce a sound in key. Some people, when in the country, may not be aware that birds are singing, may not feel the romantic influence of music, and yet may have music within them needing only an awakening —Anonymous. Nicholas G. Smith—A Tribute Elder Marion G. Romney Assistant to the Council of the Twelve N all my memory pictures of Nicholas G. Smith, there stands at his side Florence Gay Smith, his life's companion. They exemplified the Master's teaching, "For this cause shall a man leave father and mother, and shall cleave to his wife: and they twain shall be one flesh. Wherefore they are no more twain, but one flesh" (Matt. 19:5-6). From Salt Lake City to South Africa, from Southern California to the Northwest and Alaska, at home and abroad, their lives ran together in an undivided current. Under their guidance, there developed in their home an unusually fine relationship between themselves as parents and their four sons. Rarely do parents enjoy the unrestrained confidence of their children as did they. Nicholas shared with his wife and family the fullness of his rich life, and judged in the light of eternity, his life was rich indeed. All but eight of his adult years he spent filling some major assignment in his Master's service. Often he had more than one such assignment at a time. Between thirteen and fourteen years he spent in the mission field; eighteen months as a high councilman; twelve and one-half years on the General Board of the Young Men's Mutual Improvement Association; twelve years as bishop of the Seventeenth Ward; three years as Acting Patriarch to the Church; three years in the presidency of the Salt Lake Temple; and four and one-half years Page 20 NICHOLAS G. SMITH as an Assistant to the Council of the Twelve Apostles. As I think of this service, the 37th verse of the 13th chapter of First Nephi comes to my mind: And blessed are they who shall seek to bring forth my Zion at that day, (when the Book of Mormon should come forth) for they shall have the gift and the power of the Holy Ghost: and if they endure unto the end they shall be lifted up at the last day, and shall be saved in the everlasting kingdom of the Lamb; and whoso shall publish peace, yea, tidings of great joy, how beautiful upon the mountains shall they be. NICHOLAS G. SMITH—A TRIBUTE The strength of his youth and the wisdom of his maturity he freely gave in publishing peace and declaring tidings of great joy. The whole purpose of his life was to assist in _ bringing forth Zion. And he endured to the end, which is the condition upon which the blessings of eternal life and exaltation are predicated. 21 Surely he was of the blessed who are described as being "beautiful upon the mountains." He and his family had before his passing, and his family now has, a sure hope that he shall be lifted up at the last day. AFTER A WHILE Maude Hatch Benedict After a while when lessons are all learned And we no longer need this vale of tears, The dreads, the heartaches, suffered by all men Will lift like pearly dawn, to banish fears. Thrown on the velvet blackness of the scroll God's hand will be revealed to startled gaze, As stars shine brightest in the deepest blue, The truth will gleam in radiance to amaze. We then shall know how blinding griefs of ours Have seemed to pass unnoticed by his eye, The things we prayed and longed for most of all, Unanswered, unattained, we knew not why. Perhaps his wisdom keeps from us today Our soul's desire, spoken or unexpressed, But we shall come to know his plans go on, And gratefully concede he knoweth best. Life may not be God's greatest gift to man, The "after while" will prove, and we shall know The hand of death, though grim, sometimes conceals The fairest gift his mercy can bestow. We cannot tear aside the screening veil, But when life's race is run, and tired feet Are come at last to rest, we then shall know The wisdom of his ways is love complete! Drifting—Or Sailing To A Charted Course? Lella Marler Hoggan Illustrations by Dora Marler Williams RE you drifting on the sea of life without compass, oar, or rudder? Do you think that by some chance of fate your frail craft will reach a safe harbor? The experience of all the years can hold out no such hope for you. Whatever course you travel, you have no assurance of a satisfactory journey and a safe arrival at your desired destination unless you have some sort of guidance. Those going before us have charted the seas and set signal lights on the rocky coasts. They have made beaten paths through the dark forests and placed guideposts along the highway of life. For hundreds of years civilization has been patrolling the roads that men's feet must travel, in order that humanity might have a less perilous and a more comfortable journey. The high privileges and great advantages that we now enjoy were not easily won. Many of them have come to us over the altar of sacrifice. Men have literally gone through fire and blood and death to remove barriers to progress and_ to establish the light of truth. Among the unforgettable ideals that have helped to shape the course of man's destiny, are the rules that Moses brought to the Children of Israel. Graven on tablets of stone by a divine hand, they come down Page 22 the years to us, and now stand as the foundation of civil law. Another eternal document that has come to us from the past for our guidance and safety, is the Master's Sermon on the Mount. Had mankind but followed the light of this divine beacon, probably we would not have experienced the most cruel and devastating war of all time. These inspired rules of life, these fundamental truths, outline safe paths that lead to a desirable destination. Is it not prudent that we should follow them, that we should walk in the light of the torch of experience to our own betterment? The past has endowed us with priceless gifts of achievement. All of the wisdom and the beauty and the power that the centuries have accumulated has been poured into the vast reservoir of common knowledge. And the child of today has free access to this golden store. Although these blessings are free to all men, we can claim them only through our personal effort. We have to dig and delve to secure the gold that is hidden in the dark recesses of the earth. Other treasures are acquired in a similar manner. We must pay the price if we would receive the reward. We cannot drift with the tide and yet hope to reach the harbor of our dreams. If we desire to enjoy the rich heritage that life holds in store for us, we may be sure we shall have to follow a charted course to a definite goal. Obedience to accepted rules of conduct saves us from becoming human driftwood. A long time ago Confucius declared that "Personal character can only be established on fixed principles." And Aristotle asserted, "Freedom is obedience to self-formulated rules." I is true that "we can write our own price-tags."" But we cannot give ourselves double promotions unless we are able to pass the tests. The germs of truth and beauty that lie dormant within us will come to a full flowering only through study, prayer, work, and suffering. Honesty and integrity, courage and reliability, do not come by chance. Like other worth-while characteristics, they are developed through cultivation and training. We have to live the law to obtain the blessing. Our loved poet Ella Wheeler Wilcox wrote: Who sows in weakness cannot reap in strength, That which we plant we gather in at length. You can be your own worst enemy or your own best friend. Don't be wheedled into wrecking your own life. It is lack of ambition that lets today's convenience outweigh tomorrow's development. Why permit yourself to drift with the tide and be tossed about by the fitful winds of circumstances like a scrap of bleached deadwood? If you find that your impulses are carrying you downstream, let judgment grasp the oars and reverse the course of your sailing. "Make yourself responsible for yourself," urges a modern divine. We can spend our days loitering listlessly along in the lowlands of life or we can lift ourselves to the stars. In charting our course of action, let us accept the guidance that the wisdom of the years provides. Whether our journey be short or — longer, we can make life richer, more radiant, and altogether more satisfying, if we work with a purpose toward a definite achievement. DRIFTING—OR SAILING TO A CHARTED COURSE 23 24 And be assured we are never alone in our efforts; for now, as always, "God helps those who help themselves." No matter what other guidance we accept, let us so live that we may always be able to hear "the still, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JANUARY 1946 small voice of the Spirit," which the Master said would guide us unto all truth. The person who holds daily communion with the Most High is sustained and directed by the great: est power in the universe. ELIJAH Alice Morrey Bailey —— TRANSLATION OF ELIJAH Elijah's hour was near, his years bent low, Though yet he walked with God in faith. The birds Had fed him in the wilderness. So runs This ancient drama—told in ancient words. Elisha walked beside him as he went, And out of every town came bold men—young— And asked him: "Knowest thou his hour is come?" He answered: "Yea! I know it. Hold thy tongue!" And when Elijah bade him: "'Tarry here, I pray thee, for the Lord hath sent me on." He answered: "As He liveth, and as lives thy soul, I will not leave thee! But ere thou hast gone Give me of thy spirit—much—a double share." Through all these hallowed towns they walked: Gilgal, Bethel, Jericho—beyond The Jordan's flood. As they went on—and talked Behold there came a chariot of fire, And fiery steeds—and they were thrust apart. Elijah, spared the bitterness of death, Went up to heaven in a whirlwind's heart. — THE VISION Thus is he a link of death and life— Eternally of both—of heaven, earth. He is the key, long chosen, fitted, forged ELIJAH 25 To turn our hearts to them who gave us birth. The centuries roll away, and time is full, Once again men build a house to God; A prophet and his aide kneeling in prayer— Before their eyes 4 glorious vision shines And Jesus stands before this righteous pair. His eyes are as a flame of fire—as snow His hair—his face shines brighter than the sun— His feet rest on an amber work of gold— The voice of God as rushing water comes. "I am the first and last and he who lives, And who was slain—your brother. I espouse Your cause before the throne. Your sins are gone. My name ls here and I accept this house." THE KEYS He is gone, and in his place is (ne Who gathered Israel out of Egypt's hold, Now this same Moses comes and brings the keys To gather Israel out of all the world. He is gone. Elias comes—who stood Transfigured with the Savior up on high— And brings a dispensation's key, that men And nations will be blessed. The time is nigh; The great and dreadful day is at the door. Foretold by Malachi, Elijah comes, Lest all the earth be smitten with a curse, To touch a kinsman's bond in fathers, A hundred years and more have passed since then; His spirit moves On men in every land, Regardless of their birth and heart and creed; Their books and records mount as he has planned. Baal and Jezebel and Ahab—all are gone. Now, lest an altar drown in sloth and shirk, May Elijah's hand stretch forth in power And kindle into flame desire to work! Unceasing Crusade The National Foundation For Infantile Paralysis HE prayers of the nation for those stricken in infantile paralyses epidemics are answered each January by millions of Americans through the March of Dimes. America's record contributions to the 1945 appeal of the National Foundation for Infantile Paralysis poured new strength into the crusade against the Great Crippler. Poliomyelitis, merciless enemy of both adults and children, claimed more than 13,000 victims in this country last year, fourth worst polio year on record. Epidemics raged in Tennessee, Utah, Illinois, New York, and Montana, while outbreaks of the disease occurred so generally that 26 states reported more cases than in 1944, worst year since 1916. The National Foundation for Infantile Paralysis, with its local chapters throughout the country, joined forces with local and state health authorities to combat polio wherever it struck. Living up to its pledge that "no victim of polio shall go untreated for lack of funds, regardless of age, race, creed or color," the National Foundation sent nearly $1,000,000 in emergency aid to epidemic areas, supplementing the dwindling funds of local chapters. Poliomyelitis is one of the most expensive diseases known to medicine. Many victims of past epidemics must receive continuing care, sometimes for several years. Each year's outbreaks add new names to the steadily growing list. Hospitalization for a single patient costs more than Page 26 $2,500 per year. Very few family budgets can stand such a strain. Eight years ago, the late Franklin D. Roosevelt founded the National Foundation for Infantile Paralysis in fulfillment of the growing need for an organized fight against polio and a '"'general staff" to direct that fight. Basil O'Connor, personal friend and former law partner of Mr. Roosevelt, has been the Foundation's president since its formation. Before the National Foundation was launched, infantile paralysis was considered a "local affair." From the most isolated farm to the largest city, men, women, and children often had to fight the disease with inadequate resources. Today, a national network of local Foundation chapters stands ready to combat polio wherever it appears and to provide continuing care for patients from former outbreaks. Each chapter, wherever it may be, has the total backing of the National organization. Last summer a Tennessee chapter desperately needed an "iron lung." “The National Foundation had one flown from New York City. North Carolina chapters needed. Funds to provide care and treatment for scores of patients stricken during the Hickory epidemic of 1944. The National Foundation last year sent more than $200,000 to North Carolina for that purpose. Rockford, Illinois, was the center of a serious epidemic last summer. Stephenson County in the same state was badly hit. The Foundation last UNCEASING CRUSADE year advanced more than a quarter million dollars in epidemic aid to local chapters in that state. Action and aid in epidemics are the more obvious and dramatic aspects of the National Foundation's work. Everyone who has seen a polio outbreak knows this part of the organization's work. But there is another, less spectacular and less familiar, aspect: science. The Foundation, in its eight-year history, has appropriated $7,673,113 for scientific work: for research toward the goal of a Preventive and a cure for infantile paralysis, for the training of physicians, nurses, physical therapists, medical social workers and others in modern methods of treating and helping polio victims, for a broad program of education— a never-ending campaign to give the facts about polio to the people of America. The fight is costly and grows more costly as the National Founda. Tion expands all phases of its activities and meets the cost of polio epidemics. Of all contributions in any county to the annual March of Dimes conducted by the Foundation, half is retained by the local chapter for special equipment, hospitalization, transportation, treatment and care of polio patients. The other half goes to the national organization for research, education, and emergency aid in epidemics. Standing ready to give battle on every Sector of the polio front, the National: Foundation for Infantile Paralysis is a vital weapon of the working people—a weapon against the common enemy, poliomyelitis. Margaret Cummock Pickering (Continued from Page 5) As I look back over the years, I remember Margaret as a charming, vivacious, and lovable young girl. She was wholesome and interesting. She was full of life and zest. She had then, as she has now, an unusually attractive personality. She was admired and loved by all her associates, She was beautiful in appearance then, as a girl, and she is beautiful now as a woman. THE WEIGHT OF YOUR CLOUD Edna S. Dustin The weight of your cloud is far away Until it shadows you. Then it's as near as it seemed far, Its weight can crush you where you are If you let it; its strong folds Can strangle you with talon holds. € weight of your cloud is far away Unless it shadows you. It may shrink your vision to somber light; Your soul will expand as far as your sight; Though it's as near as it seemed far, You still can't touch it where you are. The weight of your cloud is far away Unless it shadows you. Mormonism in the Eyes of the Press Elder James R. Clark Brigham Young University Copyright 1946 1—DOLLY MADISON AND THE OUTCAST MORMONS (First installment of a series of articles on early Latter-day Saint history) RESIDENT J. REUBEN CLARK, JR., recently said in a conference address:.. In this crisis we turn to the women of the earth... To save us men from ourselves. So it has been, in reality, in every great world crisis, however much it may have seemed otherwise. This statement recalled to my memory a bit of forgotten Mormon history of nearly one hundred years ago. It was October 1847. The Mormons had been driven out of Illinois and across the neighboring states to the West. Some of them had reached the Great Salt Lake and established new homes. Countless other thousands were still homeless 'in Iowa. 'These were faced that winter with some of the same problems that the millions in Europe face this winter of 1946—lack of food, lack of shelter, and lack of clothing. They, too, in 1847, had just escaped from armed conflict. What was to be done? Who would step forward and alleviate the suffering of these thousands in the "wilderness of the Far West?" Who was to bind up the wounds of war? Was there no one in the nation who would champion Page 28 the cause of the unpopular Mormons? Yes. A great metropolitan newspaper owner, James Gordon Bennett, the same who sent Stanley to rescue Livingston, became the Mormon champion. While Bennett was lending the weight of his powerful New York Daily Herald to the cause, in Washington, D. C., the women of the capital led by Dolly Madison, wife of James Madison, ex-president of the United States, and Mrs. James K. Polk, the first lady of the land, were united in raising funds for the outcast Mormons. The New York Herald for October 29, 1847, said: The Ladies' Tea-Party for the Benefit of the Mormons The ladies' tea party for the relief of the 1,500 Mormons in the wilderness of the Far West, was opened this evening at Carusi's, and a most successful opening it was. We shall have something to say about it tomorrow. Suffice it for the present, that the ladies of all denominations, all over the city, headed by the mayor and the clergy went heart and hand into the work. MORMONISM IN THE EYES OF THE PRESS The venerable Mrs. Ex-president Madison, Mrs. Polk, Mrs. General Macomb, and many others of the most influential and highly respected and most beautiful of the metropolis, were united in this benevolent of these ladies, their exertions and their Contributions heart to feel, and a head to appreciate true charity, the will be as A fortnight since, Mr. Dana came to this city ( Washington ) and asked for help for the suffering Mormons driven off into the uninhabited wilds of Iowa. Of the city was published meeting was accordingly held; but Prejudice was well nigh a famishing People, their Motto is, we must help them; and they Straightway set to Work about it. 29 So they did in this case, Prejudice was against them, The Mormons, by many persons, are regarded as a miserable, degraded gang of outcasts, not entitled to the common sympathies of humanity. But the ladies of Washington ruled that these people were entitled to relief, and that they must have it. Accordingly, the Benevolent Society held several preliminary meetings at the house of Mrs. Reed, late of Mississippi, a daughter of General Duff Green, residing now on C Street; and the result of these deliberations was a resolution for a tea party. So a few mornings since, a large number of delegates, appointed by said society, sallied out to canvas the city, for the distribution, at fifty cents each, of the following ticket of admission . . . and so last night the affair came off; the house was full — a refined and benevolent audience. The ticket secured a dish of coffee or tea of the best; the extras were oysters in every style, meats and confectionary, and bouquets. The dispensers of these things were among the best and most elevated and beautiful of the metropolis. Then, at intervals, we had the music of the marine band and the songs of the European Minstrels, a new company of singers, with Mr. T. V. H. Crosby at their head. Then there was a promenade in progress all the time, and from first to last the entertainment was elegant and agreeable to young and old of all sexes, ages and denominations. Mrs. Ex-President Madison, that good and venerable lady, was a contributor, and, but for indisposition, would have been present last night to have parcelled out that large cake which contains the magic gold ring. In her absence, the office was awarded unanimously to Mrs. General Macomb, a Ways active in an work of charity; but the division of the cake was reserved fir this evening. Mrs. President Polk, never forgetful of the claims of the destitute, sent down a number of rare bouquets, and a liberal supply of confectionary, including a cedar tree hung full of French candies, kisses and sugar plumbs. No such fruit as that grows in the gardens of Jalapa. Mrs. P. has been suffering from the chills, or she would have given the party a call during the evening.  30 While this tea Party and the publicity it received in the New York Herald may not have greatly altered Mormon history, the fact that it remains unrecorded in Mormon history books may cause us to fail to appreciate the fact that there were champions of the Mormon cause outside the Church even in the darkest hours of 1847, and the fact that this sympathy and support came from the famous Dolly Madison and from the "First Lady of the Land," Mrs. James K. Polk, should cause the women of Mormondom to be proud that it was those of their sex who reached out the hand of charity when all others had refused or failed. So: "In times of crisis we turn to the women of the earth." RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JANUARY 1946 SHOPPING FOR A DOLL Hazel Jones Owen I started out early to shop for a doll— It must be the dearest and sweetest of all. I searched every store, seeking my prize, But I couldn't decide on the color of eyes. And should it have golden or dark brown hair? (What kind of clothes, I didn't much care) Should each little cheek have a dimple in? Or should it have one dimple just in its chin? I wearied of searching and looking about, And quite faint heartedly went home without The doll I so eagerly set out to find Because I just couldn't make up my mind. That night as I sat by her wee little bed, A faint light shining on her tousled head, I wondered, dear Lord, did you have such a time In choosing this loveliest baby of mine? Let Us Fittingly Mark the Land Elder Howard R. Driggs (Prepared at the Request of the Church Beautification Committee) home town of Pleasant Grove to Salt Lake City the other day, we saw an out-of-state car pausing before the roadside marker the Highway Commission has built to tell of the first battle of the pioneers with the Indians in Utah. Again, as we rounded the "Point of the Mountain," we observed another such car parked at the monument built by members of the adult Aaronic priesthood to commemorate the Pony Express. As the children in the party were reading the story on the bronze plaque, the father was taking a snapshot. Vivid memories of the first fast mail of the West, these young Americans would carry away to their home and schools. A letter from a dear old friend from Ohio was awaiting me when we reached our apartment. In part it read: I recall with a great deal of happiness our trip to the top of the Big Mountain and then down into the Valley following the route of the famous migration, and am glad to know that an appropriate memorial is to be erected. A nation without monuments, memorials and shrines is one without worth-while history. What makes travel interesting? Impressive scenery, yes; well-kept homes and farms, certainly; well-bred folk, of course. Yet, added to all this, is another thing that gives spiritual meaning to any tip. That is drama. People love to linger around places where things of import have been enacted. Precious landmarks and story spots lure travelers to linger and learn. Our National Capital with its throbbing activities is ever a place of a thousand attractions. It is there one may feel the pulse of the whole world. Yet most folk who visit the city are likely to remember best and longest—if they have the privilege— the trip down the quiet old Potomac to the home and the tomb of Washington. And all who go there are profoundly grateful that a patriotic group of Americans preserved in its beauty and storied significance the sacred shrine—Mount Vernon. Likewise are visitors to Philadelphia filled with gratitude that old Independence Hall, the home of Betsy Ross, and other shrines have been saved. We are deeply indebted, also, to those who have kept for us such historic landmarks as Old South Church, Paul Revere's home in Boston, the Alamo in San Antonio, Sutter's Fort in Sacramento. And our hearts go out always to the group of surveyors of the Burlington Railroad, who, finding the tire-marked grave of Rebecca Winters on the Mormon Trail, changed the survey to let this pioneer mother rest in peace. These sacred shrines, we should remember, do not save themselves. Nor do the old trails, where "Pilgrim feet—a thoroughfare for freedom beat across the wilderness," mark themselves. Page 31 32 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JANUARY 1946 OLD CENTRAL SCHOOL, PLEASANT GROVE, UTAH The wing at the left was built in part from the adobes used in the first Pleasant Grove schoolhouse built in 1852. The building is now used as a Hall of Memories by the Daughters of the Utah Pioneers and the centerpiece of a park dedicated to these nation builders. Someone has to take the initiative in this labor of love. Others of kindred spirit must join in the work. And such patriotic service is done not merely to remember the past; it is ever for the living present and the future. Our West, like other realms in their youth-time, has been somewhat slow in conserving its wealth of historical resources. Old things that seemed to be in the path of progress have often been not only neglected, but at times _ ruthlessly cleared away for more modem, less significant creations. This is not only unsound patriotism, but poor business. Let us face for a moment the suggestion that there is real money value in storied landmarks. The writer once asked of the late curator of Sutter's Fort—who had helped to change a run-down story spot to one of historic attractiveness—"How many out-of-town visitors registered at this old Fort last year?" "Considerably more 100,000," was the reply. "How much money, would you estimate, did each visitor leave in this city?" "That would be difficult to say; but certainly $5.00 each would be conservative." "What other business in this town brings in as much outside money?" was a final question. APPLY this to the throng of tourists attracted into Salt Lake City by reason of its historical and other attractions, or put the test to other cities that have kept their storied shrines. Whatever may be the conclusions as to the amount of money that comes from a proper preservation of such resources, it must be agreed that they pay richly for the effort. LET US FITTINGLY MARK THE LAND Any community that fails to keep and develop its historical heritage is financially short-sighted. There is, however, a deeper tea son for doing so. That is the preservation and development of the character of the community. In the lives of our pioneers is a spiritual force to be treasured and perpetuated. Through the prophet saving of the storied places that vibrate their spirit—the marking of the trails they made historic—we keep reminders of their sterling worth. To appreciate the worthy past is to fortify the future. 33 Not all landmarks, of course, are worth saving. Those that do exemplify the sturdy virtues of our nation-builders—that are filled with cherished memories—are priceless. There should ever be discrimination in this work—selection and development, to conserve historical monuments and to make them educationally attractive and upbuilding. It is a pleasure here to commend the town of my birth—Pleasant Grove. Through the devoted work of the Daughters of the Pioneers there and the understanding help of the city officials, the old schoolhouse has been preserved as a monument to the pioneers, and the lot on which it stands made a park dedicated to their memory. PRESIDENT GEORGE ALBERT SMITH AT TRAPPERS' RENDEZVOUS, BEAR LAKE Photograph by John D. Giles, taken in August 1937. 34 Plans are to develop this story spot, with the city, Daughters and Sons of the Pioneers, and the schools co-operating, into a fine memorial. Here is a pattern which other communities might follow in their own fine ways with profit. What has gone into the building of a town or state makes its character —gives it individuality. Communities that treasure their fine traditions, that preserve landmarks and relics to keep the courageous past alive and vibrant, stand out for all who live there or who visit them. Places that become merely a collection of houses and stores and service stations are passed by unremembered. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JANUARY 1946 It should be the pride of every town to develop its individuality. Certainly one of its storied buildings should be made a hall of memory—and it should have at least one block dedicated to the heroic men and women who gave their lives to the founding of the community. Another vital point: See that the historic trails that lead to your town are interestingly marked. Every community is linked with some such storied highway or byway—trails of the Indians, the pathfinding trappers, the pioneers. Many of these faded trails are in danger of oblivion. Here is challenging activity for young scouts, older ones who remember, and others, to reclaim a heritage and add to the attractiveness of the town and to travel. RECLAIMING A PONY EXPRESS STATION, "PASS" (DRY STATION) IN THE UTAH DESERT LET US FITTINGLY MARK THE LAND An awakening has come along these vital lines over the land. Many commendable things have already been accomplished by devoted, clear-seeing leaders in marking the trails and story spots, in developing wayside rests where travelers may linger and learn. Much more can be done. America is already again on the move. Years ahead will see throngs traveling. What is needed right now is well-directed, co-operative effort to help make this travel more 35 Why not center our efforts on teaching America? Why not do more to lure the speeding folk to linger and learn the dramatic story of the old trails? Why not stir every community to rise to its best—to bring out its fine American tradition —its stirring pioneer story—its forward-looking history?, Nothing will do more for our country and the world than to keep alive the spirit of those who have given their all that this might be a land of freedom based on eternal righteousness. Opportunity is before every community to help impress this on the hearts of ——~<-— PROMISE Christie Lund Coles The world will go on much the same When I am gone, The night will come as stealthily As will the dawn. The silver evening, hushed and still, Will be as sweet, And children's laughter will resound Along the street; But this awareness, wild in me, As wind or bird, This sense of being, will it lie With flesh, interred, Within the earth that it has loved, Beneath the sky That its proud heart could circumvent, Must, must it die? The spring in splendor will return The bud, the leaf, I, too, will be aware again Beyond all grief. Fruitful—more spiritually uplifting. Intelligent, more those who will follow our trails that lead by our doors. Sixty Years Ago Excerpts from the Woman's Exponent, January 1, and January 15, 1886 Sixty Years Ago "For THE RIGHTS OF THE WOMEN OF ZION AND THE RIGHTS OF THE Women of ALL Nations" In silence, and alone, I, watching, wait Something I have known is in departing, I listen for the iron tongue of Time To start the revealing requiem!—Hush! The clock, my timely monitor, strikes twelve. 'Tis the noon of night—the year is gone— Eighteen eighty-five is in eternity! —Hannah T. King THE DEATH OF THE YEAR: We are not entirely bereft of flowers. The modest daisy still lifts its unassuming head and offers a singularly vigorous resistance to the encroachments of King Frost; an occasional dandelion puts in a half-starved appearance; a few clover blossoms even yet are warmed by the sunshine when it strikes some sequestered spot.... As the days creep on, the trees and hedges become bare.... All things tend to one common end.... Winter is coming with its sure and inevitable tread. The recurrence of the seasons to those who have the wisdom to learn, is not without profit; the return of each is a silent monitor which Infinite Goodness has set before the children of men to point a moral and so adorn the story of our lives as may fit us for the coming of that hour when we, too, shall fade as flowers—pass away unnoticed as a dry leaf in boundless forests—from among the habitations of the human race, and be hidden from memory's sight by the snows and frosts of time.—Wandering Boy. WOMAN'S INFLUENCE: We are inclined to think but few women are aware of the influence which women might wield, were they disposed to labor more earnestly in that field in which the Creator has placed them, instead of reaching out to untried fields of labor for which nature has not qualified them. We believe a large majority of the women of the present day are willing to work in that sphere of usefulness which God in his wisdom assigned to them, and, in conclusion, we will say your mission is an high and honorable one; therefore "be not weary in well-doing."—Selected. NEW YEAR THOUGHTS: As we pass from out the portals of the old year and pause upon the threshold of the new,... What a throng of busy thoughts sweep down upon the memory and imagination! The faded pictures of the past, the unfinished paintings of the present, the dim and dreamy outlines of the unattempted yet ever glorious limnings of the future.... Harvests already reaped, grain that is still growing, latent germs that lie sleeping under the surface of our lives, seeds of coming events which our busy hands are about to strew upon the fertile bosom of the future —O. F. Whitney. WEAVERS WE Weavers we at the loom of Time, Swift are our shuttles flying Warp and woof we're weaving fast, Ever our life-task plying, In sunshine and shade, in pleasure and gloom, Weave we life's tissue on Time's busy loom. —Selected. Page 36 Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon HUNDREDS of thousands of girls, the world over, are returning to their homes after giving magnificent service to their countries. With eyes more widely opened to the needs of daily living for the multitudes, and hearts more receptive to the hungers of the soul, they should prove as great an asset in peace as in war. BRITAIN'S only woman cabinet minister, "wee Ellen" Wilkinson, Minister of Education, grew up in a home where the father never earned more than $16.00 per week. She acquired her education through scholarships, which, by the way, are becoming more and more available to Britain's humbly born. As a fiery Member of Parliament for Jarrow during the depression, she worked for prevention of starvation among her constituents. In 1942, during the Nazi raids, she was responsible for her country's civil defense, having supervision of more than two million paid and volunteer workers. T° 4 German woman scientist, Dr. Liza Meitner, goes much of the credit for developing the method of splitting the atom and _ releasing atomic energy. Hitler was working desperately for the discovery of this knowledge and its use by the Nazis. But Hitler drove non-Ayran Dr. Meitner out of Germany and she carried her secret with her. INEZ ROBB, writer for International News Service, was the only woman with the journalists who circled the globe on the inaugural round-the-world run of the At Transport Command. In giant they covered the 23,147 miles in six and one-fourth days. PUBLISHED fifty years ago, Fannie Farmer's The Boston Cooking School Cook Book rates seventh among all-time best-selling books in America, printings to date being 2,461,000 copies. It ls still in demand all over the world. The blind use it in a nineteen-volume Braille edition. A victim of two paralytic strokes, one at seventeen, Miss Farmer was always handicapped. She gave her last lectures in cooking from a wheel-chair. She ls known as the mother of level measurements, instead of "rounding" and "heaping." Her cook book brought her from poverty to wealth. A.M. WAINWRIGHT wrote of the nurses who faced the fearful trials of Bataan and Corregidor so unflinchingly: They had no training in pioneer hardship... - But their hearts were the same as those of the women of early America. Their names must always be hallowed when we speak of American heroes. Page 37 EDITORIAL 9 VOL. 33 JANUARY 1946 Be Not Weary In Well-Doing Two women stood talking together. The one said, "Well, she is spending enough time working for the Church, I hope it is worth it." The other declared, "I have been working in the Church for five years and now I'm going to take a rest." In speaking to his servants in September of 1831, the Lord said: Wherefore, be not weary in well-doing, for ye are laying the foundations of a great work. And out of small things proceedeth that which is great. Behold, the Lord requireth the heart and a willing mind; and the willing and obedient shall eat the good of the land of Zion in these last days (Doc. And Cov. 64:33-34)- One of the most potent forces which a mother possesses in influencing the lives of her children to righteousness is the power of example which she sets her children by her daily living. She may not fully realize this as she lives out her crowded days, but when a beloved mother passes on to her reward, the memories of her which live on with her children and are treasured by them in the long days of separation, are the memories of the deeds of loving service she showered on her family at all times, and the innumerable acts of kindness and service she rendered those outside her own home circle. Her children recall the tedious hours she was wont to spend in making quilts, in cutting out and Page 38 preparing intricate patterns to be appliqued on the quilts on sewing day in Relief Society, and the hours of service she gave after the meeting, in finishing the quilts. They remember the times when she left her home to minister to the sick or visit with the homebound. They picture the happy afternoon socials she gave for a group of lonely sisters far from their families and homelands, and the remembrance of their smiling faces floods back to bring enrichment to the souls of her children. The picture also comes to their minds of that same mother dressed in a beautiful evening gown as she left home to enjoy an evening in the home of friends. This picture, also, provides a fond memory, but does not carry the power to move her children to better or nobler living, as do the memories of the deeds of personal kindness she extended to others. The pleasure of the one is transitory—as was the occasion to the recipient—while the recollection of. The blessings she bestowed on the less fortunate of her friends lives on in the memory, and is nourished by the heartfelt words of appreciation for their mother which are spoken to them by others for years to come. "Be not weary in well-doing," admonished the Lord. Do not labor unselfishly for others for a few months or even years and then decide that one has served long EDITORIAL enough, turning thereafter to the pursuit of one's own pleasure, and leaving to those who do not weary in well-doing future service for others. The benefits of such selfish living "shall melt away as the hoar frost melteth before the burning rays of the sun." Blessed is the child who, in later years, has an anchor to his soul and an example to follow in the remembrance of the life led by his mother —of a mother who extended her love to draw into the warmth of her friendship the poor, the lonely, and the friendless, who freely, throughout her entire life, gave of her own talents for the upbuilding of the Church she loved beyond all else. 2 And just as sure as one renders service to others, so sure will be the rewards which will follow. "Cast thy bread upon the waters; for thou shalt find it after many days," said Ecclesiastes. "The Lord requireth the heart and a willing mind," we of this day have been told with the promise, "and the willing and obedient shall eat the good of the land of Zion in these last days." Certainly, to the mothers of Zion, one of the "good" things of the land of Zion for the willing and obedient will be the joy of seeing their children following their example, working in the Church, and not becoming weary in well-doing. M. C. S. Howard S McDonald inaugurated President of Brigham Young University Wednesday, November 14, 1945, Howard S. McDonald was inaugurated president of Brigham Young University. Against a background of snow-clad peaks, the academic procession marched across the upper campus and entered the stately Joseph Smith Memorial Hall for the traditional ceremony. The principal address, delivered by Dr. Edwin A. Lee, dean of the school of education of the University of California at Los Angeles, stressed the theme—"The Glory of God Is Intelligence'"—and urged the young people of today to develop spirituality and brotherhood. Elder J. Reuben Clark of the First Presidency, in giving the charge to President McDonald, emphasized the fact that spiritual values must always take precedence over secular values, for the spiritual life is based upon eternal truth. President McDonald, in accepting this charge, said that he visioned the Bigham Young University as a great institution with students from all sections of the earth coming to learn the teachings of their Church as well as to acquire knowledge in the regular academic field. Relief Society women throughout the Church are grateful for the establishment of the Brigham Young University and for the great and good men who have been called to guide its work. We are grateful that many of us and our sons and daughters have been privileged to partake of the spirituality and the vision which have characterized our Church university. President Belle S. Spafford represented the Relief Society at the inaugural ceremonies. 40 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JANUARY 1946 Blanche B. Stoddard Resigns as General Secretary-Treasurer THE General Board wishes to express appreciation for the faithful and devoted service of Blanche Black Stoddard as General Secretary-Treasurer from May 22 to October 31, 1945. Because of increased home responsibilities, Sister Stoddard found it necessary to be relieved of the exacting duties of the secretarial office. However, she will continue to serve the Society as a member of the General, Board, where her devotion to Relief Society work, her charming personality, and her gift for leadership will be of great value to the women of the Church. For a biographical sketch and a photograph of Blanche Black Stoddard, see the Magazine for July 1945, page 403. In Memoriam Elder Joseph J Cannon and Elder Burton K. Farnsworth HE members of Relief Society throughout the Church pay tribute at this time to the service and accomplishments of two outstanding leaders—the counselors in the superintendency of the Y. M. M.1. A. Elder Joseph J. Cannon, first assistant general superintendent, died at his home in Salt Lake City, November 4, 1945, after an illness of several weeks. Throughout his life Elder Cannon was an ardent Church worker, serving as a missionary in Sweden, editor of the Millennial Star, superintendent of the Ensign Stake Y. M. M. LA., president of the British Mission, president of the Temple Square Mission, editor of the Deseret News, and author of religious dramas, and in 1937 he was appointed first counselor in the general superintendency of the Y. M. M. I. A.. Members of the Relief Society will remember Elder Cannon particularly for his excellent reports on general conference sessions which have appeared from time to time in the Magazine. The sisters of Relief Society extend love and sympathy to Sister Cannon who assembles the interesting department, "Woman's Sphere." Elder Burton K. Farnsworth, second assistant in the general superintendency of the Y. M. M. LA., passed away October 27, 1945, in Seattle, Washington, where he had gone to attend an M. I. A. Convention. Elder Farnsworth was a loving father, an effective teacher, a dynamic leader, and an exemplar of the work and the faith of the Church. Born in Beaver, Utah, of pioneer parents, he became interested in education at an early age, secured his Ph. D. From the University of California, and became one of Utah's leading school officials and Church executives. We extend to Sister Farnsworth and the family our deepest sympathy in their loss, and our appreciation for the good life of this Latter-day Saint leader. Notes to the field Only One Relief Society General Conference To Be Held Each Year THE General Board announces, as of January 1946, the discontinuance of the custom of holding two general Relief Society conferences each year. Beginning with the year 1946, only one general Relief Society conference will be held a year.
This action has been taken because it is deemed inadvisable to require the sisters to leave their homes and to spend the necessary money to make two yearly trips to Salt Lake City in the interest of Relief Society, as it is felt that the program for the conference can be so arranged that all needed instructions for departmental work and recommendations in all phases of Relief
Society work can be given at one general conference a year.
Since the educational program of Relief Society commences each October and ends the last of May and Relief Society activities are modified in the summer months, it has been decided to hold the general Relief Society conference each year, beginning with 1946, in October—just prior to the semi-annual general conference of the Church.
In view of the fact that hereafter only one general Relief Society conference will be held a year, it is expected that Relief Society officers will put forth every effort to be present at the October annual Relief Society general conference.
Relief Society Assigned Evening Meeting of Fast Sunday In March
THE Sunday night meeting to be held on Fast Day in March 1946 has been assigned by the First Presidency for use by the Relief Society.
Suggestive plans for this evening meeting are being prepared by the
General Board and will be sent to the stakes in bulletin form.
It is suggested that ward Relief Society presidents confer with their bishops at once in regard to the conducting of this meeting by the Relief Society.Page 41 1. EDITORIAL POLICY a. Suggestions to Contributors We reserve the right to edit all accepted manuscripts according to the needs of the Magazine. Where the changes are slight, the contributor will not be contacted regarding them. However, where more important changes may be necessary, the author will be consulted whenever this is possible. We do not solicit reprints and we publish material of this type only by special arrangements. Therefore, do not send us material of any kind which has been published or is in the hands of a publisher. Payments are made on publication and, due to overstocked files, no promises can be made as to when accepted manuscripts will be published. If an author wishes to have a manuscript, which has been accepted and is being held for publication, returned, he should request this to be done and enclose postage for return of the manuscript. Seasonal material should reach us four to six months prior to publication date. We cannot offer detailed criticism of rejected manuscripts. 2. PREPARATION OF MANUSCRIPTS a. WE. Manuscripts should be typed (double-spaced) on one side only of regulation 8 1/2"x11" paper. Authors are asked to retain carbon copies of all manuscripts submitted to The Relief Society Magazine.. For submitting manuscripts it is convenient for authors to use envelopes of two sizes, the larger envelope for the outgoing manuscript and the smaller envelope, bearing the writer's name and address, for return in case the manuscript is not accepted. Envelopes designated in the stationer's trade as No. 8 and No. 9g are suitable for poems and short manuscripts. For stories and longer articles 6"x9" and 6 1/2”x9 1/2" envelopes may be used.. Adequate postage should be provided for both outgoing and return envelopes. Manuscripts, which must always be sent first class, require (for the United States, Canada, and Mexico) three cents for each ounce or fraction thereof.. Correct spelling, paragraphing, and punctuation are definite aids in the acceptance of a manuscript. All factual material should be carefully checked for accuracy. Page 42 3. CURRENT NEEDS a. Stories, preferably short stories between 1500 and 3,000 words. Serials of eight to ten chapters of about 2,000 words each. For serials, submit at first only chapters one and two and an outline of the remainder. B. Articles, from 500 to 1500 words. Material should follow a definite outline with an interesting beginning and a logical sequence. C. Poetry, of definite pattern in stanza, form, and meter. Since many of our poems are used as fillers, we can more readily accept short poems (4-12 lines) than longer contributions. The use of archaic words, inversions, and contractions should be avoided. D. Photographs, glossy black and white, size 8"x10", suitable for cover or frontispiece. I KNOW A ROAD Violet Harris Hendrickson I know a road Running straight and true, Like a ribbon Through towering pines. It goes to the east To meet the sun, And west, Where the day's death shines. A high straight road In the mountain tops Where the air Is clean and clear, Where pine-fingers point To a cobalt sky And heaven itself Seems near. A Christmas-tree lane Under shining peaks With never a twist Nor bend Where, after its toiling And climbing, It leads us To journey's end. SUGGESTIONS TO CONTRIBUTORS 43 And For Eternity Olive Woolley Burt CHAPTER VIII SYNOPSIS Delsa Marriott, trying to find a way to make her friends think that she is the one who has broken her engagement to Hugh Temple, who has asked to be released so that he can marry an Australian girl, shows an interest in Alec Windsor, a marine on furlough in the town. But when Alec asks Delsa to marry him, she remembers that he thinks of marriage as for time, only, while to her it means a contract for time and for eternity. Jeff Holden, the father of two children, has told Delsa he loves her, but she thinks he is merely lonely for his dead wife. WHEN Delsa awoke the next morning, her purpose had crystallized. Without knowing just how she had arrived at her decision, she nevertheless was absolutely sure of what she had to do. It had happened, I've grown up!" she thought to herself, smiling a little wistfully in remembrance of the girl who had ridden off yesterday morning—the girl who was going to cling to her childhood sweetheart in spite of everything. But when her ringless hand reached for the hairbrush and she Page 44 realized what it meant and what she would have to do today, she hesitated. But only fora moment. Shaking herself as she might shake a reluctant child, she thought, Be adult, Delsa! If you are ever going to do it, do it now—make a clean, sharp break and have it over with. Later she added softly, "Hugh will come back here with his wife and you can have his friendship, sweet and whole, if you do the right thing now. And if you never find the man with whom you wish to live forever and ever and ever—why, that is just your bad luck, Delsa." She dressed carefully, wanting to look her best today, not wanting anyone to feel sorry for her or to think she was unhappy. She went blithely down the stairs, finding that she was not having to act—that she really felt happiness through her whole body since she had come to her decision. She was reaching for the cream when her mother noticed her bare finger. "Delsa!" she cried, "your ring! You'll lose it if you keep taking it off and laying it around." Delsa smiled at her mother. "I've taken it off for good, Mother," she said quietly. "I am not going to put it on again." Her mother looked at her with stricken eyes. "Delsa, you haven't let a passing fancy—" Delsa felt her father regarding AND FOR ETERNITY her, and she turned her eyes to him. "It is not like you to jest about such things, Daughter," he said, and a worried question was behind his words. "I'm not jesting. I've thought it all out. Listen, Mother, Dad. When Hugh wrote to me last, he asked me to release him from his promise. He wants to marry an Australian girl he's met and fallen in love with. I thought at first I couldn't—" Her mother rose quickly and came around the table to her. "Darling!" she said. "I felt something was wrong. Why didn't you tell me? Hugh can't be serious! Oh, we'll work this out!" Delsa smiled reassuringly. "I've already worked it out, Mother," she said. "As I said, at first I thought I couldn't bear to give Hugh up. I was thinking, I know, more of what everyone would say than I was of my own loss. But now I see that Hugh is right to ask for his freedom if he wants it." "But how can he want it?" her father asked indignantly. ''After all these years, after all we've done for him. He must have gone crazy down there!" "He was lonely, no doubt," Delsa defended, "and he needed someone right there, someone real that he could touch and love. But there's more to it than that, Dad. Hugh was just a boy when he went away— I was just a girl. He's grown up since he left, and now that he's a man, he's chosen someone else." "Delsa, how can you defend him?" her mother asked. "As if you couldn't make a grown man a wife. You've grown up, too. You'd be a suitable mate—" "Yes," Delsa said thoughtfully, and "I’ve grown up, too. And that's why I see Hugh's point of view." SHE paused. It was proving to be difficult, all right, but not in the way she had thought. They just couldn't understand, that was all. And they must understand; they must still love Hugh. She tried, "You must think of Hugh as a man, Dad—a man _ far away from Utah and from the things he has always known and the things he has always planned. As an independent adult he has found that the things he wanted as a boy are not the things he wants right now. We must understand that, and grant Hugh the right to do as he sees fit." "Not when it means throwing you over after he has asked you to marry him!" her father cried indignantly. "Not if it means breaking your heart, leaving you to be a spinster—" "My heart is not broken, Father, and if I am a spinster, it will be my fault, not Hugh's." Her mother shook her head sadly. "You don't realize what you are saying, what you are doing when you release Hugh, Delsa. 'Think it over; let's talk it over some more before you do anything. His mother can't know—" "Not yet. Hugh said for me to break the news any way I wished. I am going to tell Aunt Martha today —and anyone else who cares to know about it, or has a right to know," she added. They looked at her sadly, at a loss what to do when she seemed so calm, so decisive. To them she was still their little girl, capable of being hurt, and they wanted fiercely to protect her. But they loved Hugh, too, be- 46 yond the ordinary love for a neighbor's child who has grown up almost in the family. Delsa came around the table, put an arm around each of her parents, and bent and kissed them gently. "It's all might, dears," she whispered. "You'll see! I must run now, or I'll be late for Sunday School." As she came to the corner of the street on which the church house stood she met Jeff Holden, carrying Trudy and with Davy running like a young colt at his side. When Davy saw Delsa he let out a whoop and ran toward her, his chubby arms outstretched. He flung himself against her knees, crying "Delsa! Delsa!" Trudy held out her baby arms and said, "Della!" They all laughed, but Delsa noticed at once that Jeff's laugh was not as clear and gay as it usually was. He's tired, she thought, and reproached herself for not having gone over the day before to help him with the children. Delsa took one of Davy's hands - and they started down the street together. Suddenly Delsa was aware that Jeff's eyes were on her hand—the hand that held Davy's, and she remembered that Hugh's ring was no longer there. She looked straight at Jeff. "Hugh has asked me to release him from our engagement, Jeff," she said quietly. EFF did not answer at once, and Delsa saw a shadow cross his clear gray eyes. Then he turned his eyes away and walked on, in silence. "What's the matter?" Delsa asked, and as Jeff did not answer she flushed RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JANUARY 1946 and said uncomfortably, "Oh, Jeff! If you're being bothered about that nonsense you were saying the other night—forget it! I knew it didn't mean anything—it was the moonlight and the music and all—" Jeff's voice was distant as he said, making no acknowledgment of Delsa's words, "Did you have a nice ride yesterday?" For a moment Delsa was stunned with surprise and shock that Jeff, whom she had considered one of her best friends, paid no attention to an announcement fraught with so much importance to her. She stammered, "Ride? What do you mean, Jeff?" The bitterness in his voice could not be mistaken. "I saw you and Windsor ride off into the canyon and I surmised you were trying to help him enjoy his furlough—but I didn't think it would lead to the discarding of Hugh's ring and all the fine loyalty you've made such a show of!" His meaning struck her like a blow and she was furious. She dropped Davy's hand and walked ahead so swiftly that the child stumbled after her crying, "Delsa, wait for Davy!" But she didn't stop. 'Then she heard Jeff say sharply, "Come back, David. Come here!" and she felt tears sting the edge of her eyelids at the hurt in his voice. Delsa didn't give herself time to think. She went straight to her place with her class and from that moment on she was busy. Butas she followed the preliminary service, as she went with her class into their own room and directed the lesson, the ghost of a thought was moving shapeless and inarticulate through her heart. AND FOR ETERNITY She was eager for the service to be over. She wanted to go home, to get out Blue Star and ride, ride, ride, until she had thought this thing through. But it wasn't to be that easy. Delsa slipped out of the church and cut through the lot, planning to get home unseen by any of her friends, for she had no heart now to tell her news to any others. But there, as if he had read her plans, Alec stood leaning against a poplar tree, waiting for her. He came forward eagerly. "I figured you'd be hurrying home after Sunday School," he grinned, "and would take this short cut." DELSA smiled in spite of herself. He was so young, so impatient. "You figured—with Millie's help I'll bet!" she said teasingly. Alec laughed. "Nope! I figured it all alone. You were helping your ma do the washing, so I thought you'd probably help her get Sunday dinner." "And you'd probably get invited to help Dad eat it!" "Sure! Sure!" He took her arm and they walked along together. In a way, Delsa thought, it was lucky that Alec was there waiting— that he was going home with her. It kept her from thinking of what Jeff had said. If she got time to think of that, she would find out, doubtless, what the rest of the town would say once they heard. And again her old fear of being pitied, of being looked at with commiseration stirred. It would be better to marry Alec, right now, and tell them all afterward. But she was being childish 47 again—she was going back to the immature deceit of the past days—the deceit she had cast off up there on the boulder. She would take this respite that Alec offered and enjoy it—so she laughed with him and joked with him, and when he caught her paying scant attention and chided her, she laughed lightly and volunteered no excuse. She saw her mother's worried frown when she brought Alec in to dinner, and went over and put her arms about her. "I've brought Alec home to dinner, Mother," she said quietly. "He'll be a good tonic for all of us." Her father gave her a sharp look as if to say, "You can put off reckoning for a time, my dear, but it will come." The meal, in spite of this, was gay with banter and laughter. Delsa was sure that Alec had noticed that she had not put Hugh's ring on again and that he was taking this as a tacit acknowledgment of his own candidacy for the place Hugh had once held. But she wouldn't let that worry her. After dinner Hugh's mother came in and Delsa was glad that Alec insisted that her mother sit with Mrs. Temple while he and Delsa did the dishes. Now Hugh's mother would not notice her ringless finger for awhile. Delsa shrank from telling her what Hugh had done, even though she knew this task must sooner or later be faced. Now in the kitchen with Alec, she tried to forget all the unpleasant aspects of being jilted, and to concentrate only on the happier ones. She was free now to look at Alec with affection, even with love, if she 
chose. 48 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JANUARY 1946 She was free to accept his kisses, if they were the kisses she wanted. She was free as she had never in all her life before been free, because always before Hugh had laid first claim on her thoughts and her affection.
She was a little giddy with this new freedom and a little panic with the worry she wouldn't admit, so that she laughed too quickly and too often, and Alec saw that she was not calm and composed.
He put his arms around her.
"The symbol of the pledge is gone, Delsa, darling! darling!" he whispered. "What does that mean, dearest? What does it mean?"
She felt his strong, young heart beating against her cheek. She thought, I can let him believe I am in love with him—maybe I am! I can let him think that is why I took off Hugh's ring!
She said softly, "Oh, Alec, it doesn't mean anything except that Hugh has asked me to take it off."
ALEC drew back from her. He took her shoulders in his hands and turned her towards the light so that he could look into her face.
"Do you mean you are really free, Delsa? But how? When?" He was almost incredulous.
"A long time ago," Delsa said wearily. "A long time ago."
"But yesterday you said—"
"I said that the ring was the symbol of a pledge. When you suggested taking it off, throwing it away, I saw suddenly that that was all I had to do—"
"But why hadn't you done that before, if he asked you so long ago?"
"Oh, it was really only a few days
ago," Delsa said softly, smiling at the thought of how she had changed since that evening. "But I was afraid, Alec! I was afraid to take it off! I was afraid of what everyone would say and think. I was afraid of being left alone."
"Well, you don't need to be afraid of that any longer!" he cried and had her in his arms again.
Delsa felt like weeping. She felt as if she were his mother, and he was asking her to assure him of her love and she couldn't, and she felt that she was betraying him. She put her hands against his shoulders.
"No, Alec, no!" she cried softly.
She withdrew from the circle of his arms and stood leaning against the table, looking at him with compassion. He was so young, so alone, so defenseless against his emotions. Hugh would have been just like this—even with all the growing up the way would have given him. They were only boys! Her throat ached, and she thought, I am no older than Alec, really! It must be that my heart has grown old suddenly!
Alec stood looking at her, leaning toward her in that slanting, eager way of his, his brown eyes troubled at her mood.
She stepped forward and put her hands on his arm and raised her eyes to his face.
"Don't be troubled, Alec!" she begged. "I don't know which way I'm going yet. All I want is happiness for you and for Hugh and for all this troubled, crazy, reeling world. But I don't know which way happiness lies—for anyone—just now."
She felt the tears heavy on her lashes, and suddenly she was the little one, turning to lay her head against him and weep as only a child can weep.
Alec put his arms about her and held her gently, tenderly.
"There, little girl!" he whispered against her hair. "I'm clumsy and thoughtless, ruining you like this. Forgive me. I just get panicky when I think how little time there is. But dry your eyes and forget it! We'll go slow, sweetheart. We'll take it easy. Don't cry, kid!"
She felt it crazy desire to laugh at
that, but she saw that he was in desperate earnest—he was the strong one, the adult one, the protector—and she shook her head, wondering that he could be so naive.
She turned back to the neglected dishes, and as she dipped her hands into the suds she felt a little chill of fear and shuddered. Maybe my heart is really dead! she thought, and began to wash plates vigorously to hide her fright.
(To be continued) HILL WOMAN Maude Blixt Trone I do not care to talk with men Whose ears have never heard The misery from little things— The wail of a wounded bird. 'T could not love a man whose eyes Are blinded to the sight Of a moon brittled by the frost And chipping off its light. - I will not marry any man Until he proves to me That he can plant the smallest seed As well as fell a tree. Notes From the field Margaret C. Pickering, General Secretary-Treasurer Regulations governing the submittal of material for '"'Notes from the Field" appear in the Magazine for February 1944, page 104. MESSAGES FROM THE MISSIONS New England Mission MYRTLE BERNARDS, auxiliary supervisor of the New England Mission, reports: "In October of 1944 the Relief Society in the Providence Branch was discontinued because of the lack of members. Three families had moved to Salt Lake City and one to Mississippi. Since the first of the year, however, membership in the branch increased by the baptism of converts and other members moving in. The Relief Society was reopened in March with Sister Alice Lyon as president. One of the rooms in the branch chapel wasn't being used so the new Relief Society made their first project the redecorating of this room for their own use.. "The priesthood members replastered the walls and the Relief Society carried on from there. They had the floors covered with a dark green linoleum, painted the walls and woodwork and made curtains and drapes for the windows. The Providence chapel at one time had been used as a theater and the stage curtains had been left. These curtains were made up into drapes for all the windows in the chapel. This first project has been completed and the members of the Relief Society now have a lovely place to meet in Page 50 and carry on their regular outlined work. The priesthood members of the branch have recently completed a baptismal font and are now beautifying the grounds. On work nights the Relief Society sisters cook dinner at the chapel so the brethren may come right from their work, have dinner, and work outside around the chapel while it is still light. The Relief Society of this branch has greatly helped to increase activity and unity." Eastern States Mission ALBERTA O. DOXEY, president of the Eastern States Mission Relief Society, reports: "I have been able to visit a few of the branches of the mission and on these occasions I have found the sisters laboring under great difficulties due to scattered membership and scarcity of gasoline to reach meeting places but carrying on just the same, and their devotion to duty and accomplishments has indeed been inspiring. Many of our members are actively participating in some war service along with their Relief Society work and we have one member, a widow and officer in the Princeton Branch Relief Society, who has just donated her ninth pint of blood to the American Red Cross. BUFFALO BRANCH RELIEF SOCIETY, EASTERN STATES MISSION, CHRISTMAS TOY DISPLAY Photograph submitted by Alberta O. Doxey, President Eastern States Mission Relief Society 52 Some notable accomplishments of some of our branches follow: "The small branch Relief Society at Newburgh, New York, with five active members, sponsored a bazaar on April 14, 1944, which netted a clear profit of $80.75 through the sale of refreshments and many beautiful articles made by the hands of these few sisters. "On August 24, the Altoona Branch Relief Society, with a total of seven active members, held a rummage sale which made a net profit of $61.49. All of the goods sold was donated by members and it was felt that the sale was a success in view of the amount made and the fact that only two months preparation was given to it. "The Buffalo Branch Relief Society had a notable project in September. It was decided that because of the scarcity and poor quality of toys that would be available, the branch Relief Society would make Christmas toys. As a result of many hours of work, quite a collection of adorable stuffed animals, some attractive bean bags, rag dolls, and the beginnings of drums, sets of blocks, costume jewelry for the older girls, scrap books, and other such things were made. Because of the infantile paralysis epidemic in Buffalo, the Crippled Children's Guild Hospital was overcrowded and _ it was thought it would be best to remember these children with the toys. Therefore, 130 separate toys and gifts were made and wrapped and most of them delivered to the children's ward of the Meyer Memorial Hospital on December 23. The remainder of the toys were distributed to the children of the Buffalo Branch at the annual Christmas RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JANUARY 1946 party on Saturday evening, December 23, 1944. (See picture on preceding page. ) "Another project of interest was that of the Lancaster Branch Relief Society which gathered 106 articles of clothing and packed them and sent them to war refugees.: "In Syracuse, New York, the Syracuse Branch Relief Society held its annual bazaar on November 14. The Fulton, New York, Branch Relief Society joined with a booth of handiwork, as well as food. Such articles as hand-embroidered and crocheted linen of various descriptions were on sale, as well as pies, cakes, cookies, hot dogs, sweet cider, and homemade candy. A fish pond provided entertainment for adults and children as well. Though none of these sisters had ever made or worked on a quilt before, the beautifully appliqued quilt which they had ready for the bazaar sold for $26. The total proceeds from the bazaar amounted to $63.03. "The Philadelphia Branch Relief Society, with an active membership of ten, held a bazaar on December g which was well attended by the branch membership. The entertainment provided by the missionaries laboring in the mission office was especially enjoyable. A profit of $87.12 was realized." Northwestern States Mission HEA STOTT, counselor in the Golden Ridge Branch Relief Society, Great Falls District, reports as follows: "The Golden Ridge Relief Society, consisting of fifteen members, under the able leadership of Sister Armida Hanberg, president, has sponsored two outstanding NOTES FROM THE FIELD entertainments during the 1944-45 season. "A bazaar was sponsored in November. Articles were donated by members and some non-members. The Relief Society collected rags and prepared them for rugs at work meetings. Fourteen rugs were woven and sold at the bazaar. Materials for a quilt were donated by some of the members. It was quilted at work meetings and also sold at the bazaar. When all expenses were paid a profit of $163 was made. "On March 17 the organization sponsored the Annual Day entertainment. A delicious banquet, furnished by the members, was served on a_ beautifully decorated table. The table was arranged with candles, place cards, napkins and favors to carry out the Relief Society colors, blue and gold. All members and partners were in attendance. A dance was enjoyed after the banquet." Australian Mission GERTRUDE SHIRRA, counselor in the Brisbane Branch Relief Society, Queensland, Australia, writes: "Far away here in sunny Queensland we Relief Society sisters wish to express our appreciation to the General Board for the excellent suggestion of a patriotic program honoring our boys in the services, their mothers, wives and children. On Sunday, July 27, 1943, we celebrated our Society's twelfth anniversary by staging this patriotic program in the evening's meeting. "The church was suitably decorated with American and British flags. The congregation sang, "The Star Spangled Banner," and 53 “National Anthem." The foreword and conclusion were given by Sister Irene Boulton in patriotic costume. A talk was given by Sister May Sharman on 'Our Boys as Missionary Soldiers.' A chorus, 'Lest We Forget,' was rendered by the Singing Mothers and daughters. "A Salute to the Flag," by two boy scouts. All servicemen present and wives and mothers of those away were then honored and had patriotic ribbons pinned on them. "After a talk by Sister Gertrude Shirra on 'Our Church Stands Ever Ready to Defend the Cause of Freedom,' the congregation joined in singing "Victory Hymn.' "Community hymn _ singing. Which, as a regular feature for the entertainment of our visiting servicemen, follows each Sunday night's service, was then enjoyed, as were also refreshments. Lights were turned out and twelve candles were lit on a three-tiered birthday cake made and donated by Sister Ida Parker. Our president, Sister Harriet Dean, then blew out the candles successfully in one breath and our eldest member of the Relief Society, Sister Anna Gilbert, seventy-six, came forward and cut the cake which was passed to all. "We truly felt our efforts were immeasurably compensated. "Similarly, we celebrated our 13th anniversary and we acclaim both patriotic evenings as memorable occasions. "With Sister Harriet Dean, Sister Ethel Orth, and myself as a presidency, we are extremely happy to' mention that love and unity and enthusiasm pervade all our meetings and because of this we are truly grateful to our loving Father in 54 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JANUARY 1946 MEXICAN MISSION RELIEF SOCIETY President Mary D. Pierce and six Relief Society branch presidents. Antonia Cardenas, Ermita Branch, Mexico City; Salome Flores, San Pedro right: Left to Branch, Federal District; Lucia Morales, Cuautla Branch, State of Morelos; President Mary Done Pierce; Jovita Bravo, Santiago Branch, State of Hidalgo; America Tapia, Toluca Branch, State of Mexico; Clementina Esperon Juarez, Tierra Blanca Branch, State of Veracruz. Heaven who sheds his spirit upon us so bountifully." Mexican Mission "THE following is a report from the Mexican Mission by Sister Mary D. Pierce, president: "The regular semi-annual conference of the Mexican Mission was held May 18, 19, and 20. This year an exposition was held of work completed by the members of our mission in Relief Societies and in their homes. A medium-sized room of the chapel was filled with the articles brought in. Several quilts covered one wall, and the other three were covered by a variety of articles. There were lace tablecloths, embroidery work on towels, pillowcases, luncheon cloths, etc., drawn work, dolls, a child's crocheted dress, and a yellow organdy formal. On a table in the center of the room was a miniature plush living room set, several artificial flowers, a pair of leather gloves and a carved wooden plaque, tinted, of the Prophet Joseph Smith, made by one of the brethren. 'There was also a wall plaque of plaster that was very pretty "Immediately after the second session of the conference, everyone was invited to see the exposition, and a demonstration was given by Sister Pauline Green, under the direction of Sister Mary D. Pierce, NOTES FROM THE FIELD The members were shown how to cover the end of a quilt, so as to be -able to keep it clean longer. Sister Green also told them how to wash a quilt to get the best results. A demonstration was then given on how to paint cloth with crayolas and keep the color in, even after washing. This is very simple and easy to do, and you can make very pretty curtains, bedspreads, etc. With it. Each member was then given printed instructions on how to make pot holders, and two types of aprons that are especially useful. They were also shown the finished articles. "The demonstration ended with Sister Pierce telling the members that the project for the Relief Society this coming year is to have every family in the mission supplied with the number of quilts they need. "The exposition itself continued until the end of the conference. It was a real success, and if the members express a desire for it, we plan on having another one next conference." The mission further reports: "In one of the smaller branches of the Mexican Mission which is located in Atlixco, Puebla, a tiny Indian town about eighty-five miles southwest of Mexico City, a handful of faithful Mexican sisters carry on the regular Relief Society lesson work and activity. A typical example of their work is the special program which was held a short time ago in commemoration of the organization 55 of the Relief Society, March 17, 1842. Sister Mary D. Pierce reports that on the evening of March 19 a special celebration was held at the home of one of the members to which all of their husbands were also invited. "A play was presented centered about the lives of the six Relief Society presidents and each Mexican sister taking part gave a short sketch of the life and activities of one of the presidents. Two recitations and a song then were given with a short skit on temperance ending the program. Ice cream and cookies were served to those present. "The entire program was very simple and unelaborate, but it demonstrates that even among those of humble birth and little or no formal education, the Relief Society can go forward in the true spirit of our Church and carry on activities in which the whole group participates. The sisters of the Atlixco Branch, several of whom do not know how to read nor write, are all very poor and their lives are not much affected by this modern world, but they all joined together in planning and taking part in an evening of enjoyable entertainment in honor of the organization to which they belong. A detailed report of this program was sent in to Sister Pierce at the mission home in Mexico City by Sister Concepcion de Lara, Relief Society president in Atlixco." Lesson DEPARTMENT Theology Church History Lesson 15—The United Order Begun and Its Establishment in the Settlements Dr. H. Wayne Driggs For Tuesday, April 2, 1946 Objective: To show how the Lord strives always to have his children seek the more perfect social order of living. THE gospel of Jesus Christ has been sent to the earth for the salvation of mankind. In many cases the saints, and more especially people of the world, have felt that this salvation is meant only for happiness hereafter. While no one can deny that it is the joy of eternal peace that is the ultimate goal of living, yet to insure such a hope it is necessary to labor for salvation in this mortal existence. Such being the case, anything, then, that blights and dwarfs our living here should be alleviated. Sick men cannot work. Poverty-stricken people have no spirit to do, nor can those who are trapped in the wages of sin find joy in future living. The Lord would stamp out all things that shackle the souls of men. This, of course, can only be done when men co-operate. The Lord can show the way, but if the benefits of his counsel are to be realized, his children must learn to listen and obey. Page 56 One of the first things the Master taught the early members of his Church was the need for working together. They were to share, as a group, the sorrows as well as the joys. There would always be poor among them. Just as sure as the rising sun, disappointments and reverses would always be a part of this life, and suffering would come as a result. The widow and the fatherless, the invalid and the weak, all must be assisted. The human heart is tender and the human soul has pride. Both of these must be considered even above the immediate relief of physical want. If they are not, the spirit and will to rise above difficulties breaks, leaving often but the shell of man, the outward form bereft of the divine light of his inner spirit. Few sights are more heart-rending LESSON DEPARTMENT than those to be viewed upon the park benches of great cities—human driftwood, cut free from the moorings of purpose in life. In his wisdom the Lord knows that there can be no true salvation for his people unless the evils of poverty and destitution can be controlled. This was the reason that, in the very beginning of the establishment of his Church in the latter days, he tried to bring about what is known as the law of the United Order or consecration of properties, To fully understand this law and its far-reaching effects swells the heart with love and kindness, for what greater joy is given man than to know he is of worth to others? You will recall that the Prophet Joseph Smith, before the fatal return to Nauvoo, said: "If my life is of no value to my friends, it is of none to While, as a People, the saints of early days were not quite equal to the responsibility of accepting this higher law of social living, still it has not all been loss to know of their failure. "A man's Teach should exceed his grasp, else what's a heaven for," writes the poet, Robert Browning. The lesson for this month can have but little in the way of history in a few communities in the far west, such as Orderville in Southern Utah. - in practice, the brethren in Missouri got away, in their attempts to set up the United Order, from the principles set out 57 in the revelations. This is also true of the organizations set up here in Utah after the saints came to the valleys. I the departure came by way of the nature of the title which was given to the Church and of the title which was reconveyed to the donor—in Practice it was a sort of "Tend-lease arrangement" as finally developed. The revelations and the instructions of the Prophet called for a fee simple conveyance of real estate by the donor to the bishop and an absolute bill of sale of the personal property of the donor also to the bishop. The bishop then granted back to the donor by the same sort of documents the donor's 'portion,' 'stewardship,' or ' inheritance.' In the Orderville experiment a regular communal organization apparently was set up and all property held in common. The Prophet Joseph had time and time again declared that the Church was not a communal organization. On one occasion, while attending a lecture on socialism, he declared, "I said I did not believe the doctrine." This was in 1843. — —President J. Reuben Clark, Jr. Today on a Church-wide scale we may be nearing something of a United Order under the present Welfare Plan. Says President J. Reuben Clark, Jr.: Perhaps... When the Welfare Plan gets thoroughly into operation... We shall not be so very far from Carrying out the great fundamentals of the United Order, If the Welfare Plan is fully operative, we shall be able to care for every destitute Latterday Saint wherever he may be (Conference Address, 1942).  The law of consecration or the United Order is not, as some have supposed, a law doing away with Private Ownership. On the contrary, under this law each family in the Church would legally own enough Property to satisfy "his family, according to his circumstances and his wants and needs, inasmuch as his wants are just—" (Doc. And Coy, 58 82:17; 78:5-8). This would mean that the amount of property. Owned by the various families in the Church would of necessity vary since the needs of families are different. There would be equality, however, in that all families would have their needs. When the Prophet Joseph Smith was asked if the Mormon people believed in having all things in common his answer was "No." (D. H. C.. Vol. III, p. 28) In order to understand the true spirit of the law of the United Order it must be understood that basically all that we are and have really belongs to the Lord. He, therefore, can call upon us for our property as well as our lives since both are his in the first place (Doc. And Cov. 104: 14-17, 47-57). The amount of a man's property which should be retained by the Church and the amount he should receive back was to be determined as follows, as presented by the Prophet in a letter dated June 25, 1833 and addressed to Edward Partridge: "I proceed to answer your questions, concerning the consecration of property:— First, it is not right to condescend to very great particulars in taking inventories. The fact is this, a man is bound by the law of the Church, to consecrate to the Bishop, before he can be considered a legal heir to the kingdom of Zion; and _ this, too, without constraint; and unless he does this, he cannot be acknowledged before the Lord on the Church books: therefore, to condescend to particulars, I will tell you that every man must be his own judge how much he should receive and how much he should suffer to remain in the hands of the Bishop. I speak of those who consecrate more than they need for the' support of themselves and their families. "The matter of consecration must be done by the mutual consent of both parties; for to give the Bishop power to say how much every man shall have, and he be obliged to comply with the Bishop's judgment, is giving to the Bishop more RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JANUARY 1946 power than a king has; and upon the other hand, to let every man say how much he needs, and the Bishop be obliged to comply with his judgment, is to throw Zion into confusion, and make a slave of the Bishop. The fact is, there must be a balance or equilibrium of power between the Bishop and the people, and thus harmony and goodwill may be preserved among you. "Therefore, those persons consecrating property to the Bishop in Zion, and then receiving an inheritance back, must reasonably show to the Bishop that they need as much as they claim. But in case the two parties cannot come to a mutual agreement, the Bishop is to have nothing ~ to do about receiving such consecrations; and the case must be laid before a council of twelve High Priests, the Bishop not being one of the council, but he is to lay the case before them." (Doc. Hist. 364- 65)—President J. Reuben Clark, Jr. When the parties reached an agreement, then the bishop would deed in fee simple the property agreed upon to the Church member. This the member would own outright as private property. The part of the member's property which was not turned back to him after these transactions had been made then became the common property of the Church to be used for the support of the poor in the Church. If a whole community of saints would thus comply with the law of the United Order there would be a feeling of equality among them, for all having been fair at first declaring their earthly possessions, they might by the same token feel free to call upon the bishop's store in time of need. The bishop, in tum, would be in the best position to administer such a "residue" of property (Doc. And Cov. 42:34-36), since he and his community would know that all had complied legally with the law of the Lord. Thus each saint would LESSON DEPARTMENT have his "Portion" or "Inheritance" from the common pool of properties or land first deeded to the Churchy. It was within the very first years of the Church that the Lord commanded his saints to obey the law of the United Order. By February of 1831, a number of the new converts had assembled in and about Kirtland, Ohio. It was the will of the Lord to have the members of the Church in New York assemble in Ohio. There would of necessity need to be preparations made for these people. Accordingly, Bishop Partridge was instructed to assign them lands after their arrival. At this time, the law of consecration was set into effect. The head of each family after having turned in his property was, in turn, issued a certificate for his portion and inheritance in the Church. Trouble came soon after this law went into effect since not all group played fair, The members of the Church from Colesville, New York, on their arrival in Ohio, were located at a place called Thompson, about sixteen miles northwest of Kirtland. Here, as we have learned, they were directed to live according to the Lord's law, that is, the order of stewardship and consecration of properties. Among these people there resided a man named Leman Copley, who was a member of the 'Shaking Quakers' before he joined the Church. He owned a large tract of land which he agreed to turn over to the Colesville branch to occupy in this manner of stewardship, agreeable with the revelation they had received. It appears that Copley had not been fully converted to the Gospel and he, with some others, later rebelled and broke the covenant of consecration. This caused confusion among the Colesville saints and placed them at the mercy of their enemies, as well as in jeopardy before the Lord. In their distress they sent Knight, who was in charge of the branch at Thompson, to the Prophet to learn what they should do. The Lord spoke unto them saying that their covenant had been broken and therefore was of no effect, and it would have been better for the one who was responsible for the offense, 'had he been drowned in the depth of the sea.' The members of the branch were now commanded to journey to Missouri, unto the borders of the Lamanites,' and there they were to seek 'a living like unto men' until the Lord might prepare a place for them (Essentials in Church History, page 127).  The Stories of other attempts to live the law of United Order are not unlike this one as to the Outcome some d e the Saints at times succeeded, but as a group they seemed not ready to comply with the will of the Lord in these matters. Today, with so many schemes abroad as to the best solution for a perfect social order, we as members of the Church might well look into the Lord's words and learn his will as did the people of Enoch. Suggestions for Active Reading and Discussion With the help of the suggestive readings given below have the class carry on the discussion as follows: first, answer the question; second, read the assigned part of the text to discover wherein we must "give heed unto his word." 1 . "And all things shall be done by common consent in the Church . . ." (Doc. and Cov. 26:2). What does this mean? Note pages 178-179 following Sec. 26 in the Commentary. 2. Is a person disloyal to the government who acknowledges God as the supreme ruler? (Read Doc. and Cov. 58:21-22) For further class discussion or home study on the United Order read, "Private Ownership Under the United Order" by President J. Reuben Clark, Jr., Conference Address, October 1942; see also Improvement Era, November 1942. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JANUARY 1946 Additional References on the "United Order" "The United Order and Law of Consecration asset Out in the Revelations of the Lord," J. Reuben Clark, Jr., Deseret News Church Section, 4 issues, August 25, September 1, September 8, September 15, 1945. A pamphlet containing these articles may be obtained from the Deseret News, 16 Richards Street, Salt Lake City 1, Utah, by sending a stamped, self-addressed enve-lope larger than 6"xg", with your request. Visiting Seachers' Messages Sources of Strength—Charity Lesson 7—Charity Hopeth All Things, Charity Endureth All Things Dr. Lowell L. Bennion For Tuesday, April 2, 1946 Objective: To show that charity meets offense with patience, understanding, and hope. Ye have heard that it hath been said, Thou shalt love thy neighbour, and hate thine enemy. But I say unto you,... Do good to them that hate you, and pray for them which despitefully use you, and persecute you; That ye may be the children of your Father which is in heaven (Matt. 5:43-45). THIS is strong doctrine. Man seems to be more inclined by nature to give blow for blow than love for hate or good for evil. Critics and skeptics call this Christian ideal good for the kingdom of heaven, but not for this world. Still, we may ask, what does experience teach us? Not infrequently when a person is dealt with unfairly his first impulse is to fight for his rights, to rally the support of his friends, or even to return evil for evil in order to teach the offender the error of his ways. Experience reveals the folly of such a course of action, for argument only stirs more argument as the wind stirs the open fire; and evil not only increases evil, but justifies it in the mind of the first offender. A person of charity knows a better way to deal with an offense against him. Since "charity seeketh not her own," his first reaction to injury or criticism is not to engage in self-defense, but to look within himself to find the cause for the real or imagined offense. If, after making careful study and receiving wise counsel, he finds no cause within himself for the offense, then he is happy that the accusation against him is not justified. And since "'charity rejoiceth in the truth" he is willing to wait, to hope, and even to endure until truth can be his vindicator which it can be and will be far more effectively than he himself could ever be. Hardship and suffering make up a normal part of a person's life. The rains descend, the floods come, and the winds blow, and beat upon every life (See Matt. 7:24-27). Sometimes these things come upon us as
natural consequences of our own ignorance and sins; often they are 
the result of the ignorance and sins of others or of the natural conditions
of earth-life. Whatever their cause, they do not leave us untouched. One
who comes face-to-face with real struggle and suffering will never be
the same person again. Either he will increase in cynicism, bitterness,
melancholy or self-pity, or he will grow in humility, compassion, understanding,
and love. It isn't what happens to us, and more especially what is said about us, that matters, but our attitude towards these things and toward those who offend us. Charity is an unfailing source of strength which enables us to meet
life with courage and faith, with patience, understanding, and love. It
relieves its possessor of the burden of a wounded self and of the need
to waste energy in self-excuse and self-defense, in blame, or retaliation.
It frees the mind and heart for their larger task of knowing the truth and
loving the right. Charity does not mean submission to wrong and to
error; it means more strength for the right and for the truth. LESSON DEPARTMENT
Literature The Bible in our Literature Lesson 7-Bible Influence as Revealed in Sermons Essays, and Orations. Dr. Howard R. Driggs For Tuesday, April 16, 1946 Added the treasured songs, stories, and Plays that have been created for our recreation, we have we have
a wealth of choice sermons, essays, and orations. As distinguished
from the lyric, epic, and dramatic types of literature, already presented
in these lessons, the sermon, essay, and oration are in a general sense
more didactic in purpose and spirit. They teach or portray facts and
truths of life with more directness. At times, this didactic type of literature
rises to classic heights. All Down the Stream of time men h Voiced their thoughts and feelings have voiced their thoughts and feelings have tried to do what they felt was
right. Often what was said rang with such force that it echoed and
re-echoed through the years. For illustration: We hold these truths to be Self-evident that all men are Created equal; that they are endowed by their Creator with certain
unalienable rights; that among these are life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness. — Declaration oi Independence, Thomas Jefferson. 62 It is rather for us to be here dedicated to the great task remaining before us; that from these honored dead we take increased devotion to that cause for which they gave the last full measure of devotion. That we here highly resolve that these dead shall not have died in vain. That this nation, _ under God, shall have a new birth of freedom, and that government of the people, by the people, for the people, shall not perish from the earth. —Gettysburg Speech, Abraham Lincoln Only great occasions bring forth such soul-stirring expressions. When a nation is at a crisis, some leader usually rises to voice the heart of the people. When truth is soundly, aptly spoken, the words are caught up and passed on as maxims for guidance, as clarion calls to duty. Usually such expressions, as the ones above, are simple,. Direct, rhythmic, easy to remember. In word or spirit, they reveal Bible inspiration. In "times that try men's souls," those who bear the responsibility of leadership, almost unfailingly turn to Holy Writ for light and strength. During Britain's darkest days of World War II, when Winston Churchill could promise his people only "blood, sweat, toil and tears," he constantly held faith and courage before them in words such as these: The task which has been set us is not beyond our strength; its pangs and toils are not beyond our endurance. As long as we have faith in our cause, and unconquerable will power, salvation will not be denied us. In the words of the Psalmist: RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JANUARY 1946 "He shall not be afraid of evil tidings, his heart is fixed, trusting in the Lord." Later, when the clouds had lifted, he could look back through the dark days and say: All the world, even our best friends, thought that our end had come.... We were united in that solemn, majestic hour.... We faced our duty, and by the mercy of God we were preserved. Such bracing of men and women for their duties is by no means limited to times of deepest distress. In less degree it comes with everyday needs. All of us, great or small, are constantly saying things to try to help the world along. One thing that marks our daily talk is folk sayings that have come down as a homely heritage of wisdom. Everyone will recall some of these old, time-tested bits of advice that fell from the lips of grandmother, grandfather or parents, or some helpful-spirited neighbor. Here are just a few samples: Don't let the grass grow under your feet. Remember, a stitch in time saves nine. Honesty is the best policy. Handsome is as handsome does. Frequently a bit of wisdom came in verse, as: The Devil was sick—the Devil a monk would be; The Devil was well—the Devil a monk was he. —Rabelais A goodly part of our didactic literature, indeed, is cast into verse form—this to make it easier to learn by heart. Songs sung in religious services are in large measure more didactic than lyric. A central purpose in their creation is to impress a gospel lesson. For illustration, take these typical lines: Count your many blessings Name them one by one; And it will surprise you What the Lord hath done. Let us oft speak kind words to each other, At home or where'er we may be. LESSON DEPARTMENT Poets, dramatists, novelists, frequently let life lessons flower forth in their creations. Oliver Wendell Holmes, for example, after pondering over a broken shell of a chambered. Nautilus, created a beautiful lyric on its life and growth, and closed with a message for himself and for all of us. Build thee more stately mansions, O my soul, As the swift seasons roll! Leave thy low-vaulted past! Let each new temple, nobler than the last, Shut thee from heaven with a dome more vast, Till thou at length art free, Leaving thine outgrown shell by life's unresting sea! Bryant's "To a Waterfowl," in which the poet pictures a bird winging its solitary way through the sky into the night, closes with these impressive lines: He who, from zone to zone, Guides through the boundless sky thy certain flight, In the long way that I must tread alone, Will lead my steps aright. Life lessons such as these, which blossom naturally out of songs, stories or plays, are diamond truths in their settings. Our literature is sprinkled with like gems of thought —made the more impressive because they are artistically presented. In harmony with all true teaching, they lead, guide, persuade, but do not "force the human mind." Preachers will do well to keep this basic principle, so marvelously exemplified in the life of the Master Teacher, constantly in mind. Our most effective ones do. Indirectly, rather than directly, they present 63 their lessons of life. As with the Savior, they often make the truth walk and talk through a well-told story. Occasionally when conditions demand, they speak with plainness, as did Jesus when he drove the money changers out of the temple, and when he rebuked the scribes and Pharisees. Generally, however, the approach to the hearts and minds is such that folk are stirred with the impulse not merely to be good but to do good. A few illustrations of what may be called persuasive preaching or teaching are the following: I sometimes think that we expect too much of Christmas Day. We try to crowd into it the long arrears of kindliness and humanity for the whole year. As for me, I like to take my Christmas a little at a time, all through the year. And thus I drift along into the holidays—let them overtake me unexpectedly—waking up some fine morning and suddenly saying to myself: "Why, this is Christmas Day." —The Friendly Road, David Grayson It. Is hard for me to see how a great man can be an atheist. Without the sustaining influence of faith in a divine power we could have little faith in ourselves. We need to feel that behind us is intelligence and love. Doubters do not achieve; skeptics do not contribute; cynics do not create. Faith is the great motive power; and no man realizes his full possibilities unless he has the deep conviction that life is eternally important and that his work, well done, is a part of an unending plan. —Fundamentals of a Successful Life, Calvin Coolidge. There is no real wealth in gold. People talk about being wealthy—about being rich; but place the richest banking company in the world upon a barren rock, with their gold piled around them, with no possible chance of exchanging it, and destitute of the creature comforts, and they would be poor indeed.... 64 Men and women who are trying to make themselves happy in the possession of wealth or power will miss it, for nothing short of the Gospel of the Son of God can make the inhabitants of the earth happy, and prepare them to enjoy heaven here and hereafter. Discourses of Brigham Young, pages 473-4, 483. Our national welfare should always be a theme deeply rooted in our minds and exemplified in our individual lives, and the desire for our nation's good should be stronger than political party adherence. The nation's welfare means the welfare of every one of its citizens. To be a worthy and a prosperous nation, it must possess those qualities which belong to individual virtues. The attitude of our country toward other nations should always be honest and above suspicion, and every good citizen should be jealous of our nation's reputation both at home and abroad. National patriotism is, therefore, something more than mere expression of willingness to fight, if need be. Gospel Doctrine, Joseph F. Smith, page 517. Latter-day Saints, of all people, should show excellence in didactic literature. Opportunity for such expression is abundantly afforded them. And they will grow in grace and power if they study and practice expressing uplifting thoughts that come to them—not in just commonplace style—but with sincerity, and simple artistry. As a practical suggestion: Appreciate the ideas God gives you by writing them in your own best language; also keep inspirational thoughts others express—a few strikingly effective ones that have impressed you. With such practice and appreciation, skill to write and to speak will grow in you. Thousands upon thousands of choice sermons, essays, orations have been created and will continue to be created down the years. Again, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JANUARY 1946 if time is not to be wasted on the mediocre, we must cultivate a sense of selection.. No two of us will choose the same; our backgrounds for appreciation differ; even our moods change. Yet, if there is to be an upbuilding of our lives, only that which promotes a love for the good, the beautiful, and the true will claim our time and attention. This does not mean that we shall choose only those selections which plainly are linked with the Bible in word or spirit. Much of our didactic literature, particularly of the essay type, is created largely to inform or entertain. Observe, for example, the following paragraph from one of John Burrough's nature sketches, The Apple: How they resist the cold! Holding out almost as long as the red cheeks of the boys do. A frost that destroys the potatoes and other roots only makes the apple more crisp and vigorous; they peep out from the chance November snows unscathed. When I see the fruit vendor on the street comer stamping his feet and beating his hands to keep them warm, and his naked apples lying exposed to the blasts, I wonder if they do not ache to clap their hands and enliven their circulation. But they can stand it nearly as long as the vendor can. No mention of the Bible in this apple sketch, yet it brings enjoyment and stirs good memories, as do all well-written and wholesome essays on nature. Literature that takes us out-of-doors, that opens our eyes to the wonder world around us, that lets us travel far and wide, even though we do not leave our firesides to do it—is always helpful, if it is clean and pure. We may get not only information, but interpretation of human folk and also some good fun from such reading. LESSON DEPARTMENT A classic book of travel that spreads a feast of geography, history, descriptions of nature and human nature for us, with bits of humor thrown in to spice the trip, is Mark Twain's Innocents Abroad. Most folk think of this great writer as merely a humorist. He is all that and more. Observe, for example, these soul-lifting lines from the book just named: Night is the time to see Galilee. ... Its history and its associations are its chiefest charm, in any eyes, and the spells they weave are feeble in the searching light of the sun. Then we scarcely feel the fetters. Our thoughts wander constantly to the practical things of life. . . . But when day is done, even the most unimpressionable must yield to the dreamy influences of this tranquil starlight. ... In the lapping of the waves upon the beach, he hears the dip of ghostly oars; in the secret noises of the night he hears spirit voices; in the soft sweep of the breeze, the rush of invisible wings. Phantom ships are on the sea, the dead of twenty centuries come forth from the tombs, and in the dirges of the night wind the songs of forgotten ages find utterance again. In the starlight, Galilee has no boundaries but the broad compass of the heavens, and is a theater meet for great events; meet for the birth of a religion able to save the world; and meet for the stately Figure appointed to stand upon its stage and pro-claim its high decrees. . . . One can com-prehend it only when night has hidden all incongruities and created a theater proper for so grand a drama. With his vivid word pictures, his humorous touches, his sharp shafts at the sham and show and mockeries that bring unholiness to sacred placess, the author takes us round the land of Palestine, and leaves us, as he does in the above paragraphs, with deeper appreciation of the inner meaning and significance of storied places round which we linger with him in that Holy Land. Another selection which brings us closer to the spirit of religion and to the heart of a great American, comes from a treasured book, presented to the writer by President Grant, Abra-ham Lincoln— Man oi God, by John Wesley Hill. In this volume, rich with incidents of Lincoln, is a story told by one of his boyhood friends. This friend, on invitation, had ac-companied Lincoln to the home of a woman who had but a few hours to live. She had requested that her will be made before she passed away. When this was done, she said to Lincoln, "Now I have my affairs in this world arranged satisfactorily. I have also made preparation for the life to come. I do not fear death. I am glad that I am soon to meet those who have gone before." ' T our faith in God is wise and strong," said Lincoln. "Your hope of a future life is blessed." She then asked him if he would not read a few verses from the Bible. They offered him the Book; he did not take it but began reciting from memory the Twenty- third Psalm. Then he quoted the first part of the fourteenth chapter of John, 'In my Father’s house are many mansions; if it were not so I would have told you.” After he had given these and other quotations from the scriptures, he recited several hymns, closing with "Rock of Ages, Cleft for Me." "A little while after the woman passed to her reward," said the friend. "As we rode home in the buggy, I expressed surprise that he should have acted as pastor as well as attorney so perfectly, and Lincoln replied, 'God and eternity were very near me today.' " RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JANUARY Discussion and Activities 1. What are the four basic types of literature thus far presented in these studies on "Bible Influence in Our Literature?" Name an example of each type. 2. Why may essays, sermons, orations be classed under the general classification of didactic literature? Name an essay, a sermon, an oration that you treasure. 3. (a) Be ready to quote a memory gem of a line or two which impresses a worth-while lesson, (b) Be ready also to give some quotation from a leader in the pres-ent world conflict which has brought in-spiration and courage to folk fighting to preserve our freedom. 4. What book of a religious type, out-side the standard works of the Church, has been of constant help and inspiration to you?5. What folk saying has been handed down as a helpful maxim in your family? 6. What address given during the pres-ent world conflict have you saved for your scrapbook of choice literature? Why? 7. (a) What book of essays, dealing with nature, travel, or other subjects, has been a source of information and enjoy-ment for you? (b) What are you doing to keep some of the choicest essays you find in current literature? 8. (a) What are you doing to cultivate in yourself skill to express your own thoughts? (b) What are you doing to keep the most helpful thoughts of others active in your heart and mind? Special References For helpful essays: Adventures in Friendship, by David Grayson; A Watcher in the Woods, by Dallas Lore Sharp; Emerson's Essays, or any other collection of good essays. Excellent ones may also be found in good school readers. For uplifting sermons: Discourses of Brigham Young; The Gospel Kingdom, by John Taylor; Gospel Doctrine, by Joseph F. Smith; Gospel Standards, by Heber J. Grant, and other like books by our leaders. Orations and addresses—many of these may be found in school readers by Americans and others. Social Science Modern Applications of Moral Principles Lesson 13—Some Broader Applications of Social Ethics Dr. Harold T. Christensen For Tuesday, April 23, 1946 Lesson link: Moral aspects of courtship, marriage, widowhood, and other phases of family life were analyzed last time. It was shown that family stability is necessary to the building and maintaining of morals, and that morality in turn is fundamental to family stability. Selfishness was regarded as the major reason for family breakdown, the primary source of immorality in marriage; and, in contrast, love, co-operation, and helpfulness were named as the essence of family ethics. Lesson aim: To examine some of the inequalities and inhumanities existent in the world today, and to show that justice, when not violated, leads to both peace and happiness. LESSON DEPARTMENT LOOKING back over previous lessons, and remembering particularly the brotherhood principle, we can see that morality is offended whenever justice is violated. Advancements and satisfactions based upon self-interest alone are not enough when it comes to ethics; self-righteousness is no righteousness at all. Real morality is based upon love, equality, fraternity, and justice.
Need and Greed
In 1933, the middle of the great depression, America had between twelve and seventeen million workers unemployed. Several million are unemployed regularly, even in normal years. Furthermore, income varies greatly among those who are able to find work, as shown by the fact that in the 1935-36 period nearly half of America's families received yearly incomes of less than $1,000 each and the 195,000 highest income families received as much as the 13,000,000 families with lowest income. It was President Franklin D. Roosevelt who said that at least one-third of our families are "ill-housed, ill-clothed, ill-fed." During depression years the percentage of poverty goes even lower than that. In America, "the land of opportunity," the land favored with an abundance of natural resources as in no other spot on the earth, poverty and pauperism exist side by side with surplus and waste, people starve in the midst of plenty.
Greed is the explanation for much of the need in the world today. Our great maldistribution of wealth, which permits all of this suffering, is not to be explained on the basis of power and privilege more than ability and effort. It is true, of course, that individuals differ in capacities and abilities as well as in application and effort, so that it is utterly impossible to imagine any individual or level economic equality over a long stretch of time; wealth will quite naturally gravitate to those with ability and industry, and to some extent it should. Even so, any real justice tempered with Christian mercy would require that no one be permitted to go without the necessities of life; the "haves" should feel a responsibility for the "have nots." But more serious even than the widespread tendency on the part of the fortunate to refuse charities and ignore the handicapped, is the fact that economic fortune is so often related to luck, privilege, and a willingness to cheat. While we cannot expect equality so far as ability and industry are concerned, we do not even have an equality of opportunity. Wealth depends too much upon special advantage and deceit, not enough upon effort and honesty.
The profit motive in business, industry, labor groups, and some professions is apparently amoral in its nature, for it takes little heed of ethics or public welfare; expediency is the thing; profit is placed above principle. Advertising all too frequently overplays the qualities of the product in order to sell for profit. Merchandising has likewise in too many instances become a game of deceiving and tricking the public; note the technique of high-pressure salesmanship, for example; and the practice of making goods in order to mark them down again for a "sale"; and the tendency to reduce the quality of goods, jump price ceilings, and in other ways profiteer in wartime. Many big-time industrialists are still ready and willing to exploit the laborer and cheat the consumer in order to build up power and accumulate huge profits. And organized labor, on the other hand, has frequently resorted to work slowdowns, wage holdups, and other questionable devices; in its legitimate struggle for equality, labor has frequently gone rabid and extreme; its cry for justice has too often become a demand for power and special privilege. Professional ethics is probably more highly developed than business, industrial, or labor ethics, but even here is the frequent spirit of money madness. Unless the profit motive can somehow or other be tempered or oriented in the direction of social welfare in all fields of economic activity, justice will never be reached and morality will remain a thing talked about but seldom practiced.
Latter-day Saints should be appreciative of the Church Welfare Program, for its aim is that of security through both self-effort and brotherly love. Emphasis is upon helping people to help themselves rather than encouraging them to accept something for nothing. This is a high moral principle. Personal effort and individual responsibility are of primary concern, as they must always be in any true moral system. But also in the plan is the idea that mercy must go beyond mere justice; greed give way to brotherhood, and the actual needs of people be met by the individual himself if he is able to work, next by his family, and finally by the Church. By sustaining the dignity of labor this program avoids pauperization. By insisting upon moral responsibility toward both self and neighbors it builds character. Fundamentally it is a program of security through industry and mutual aid in the spirit of Christ.
Racketeering
Defined broadly, racketeering simply means to obtain money by fraud, swindle, or other immoral procedures. Sometimes it is outside the law, but often, too, it is technically within the law though beyond all bounds of ethics. The essential idea in racketeering is the circumvention of law for the sake of big money; it is the idea of extortion, or taking money with trickery or force without earning it. The law is evaded sometimes by direct defiance, as in the case of the so-called criminal; sometimes by hiring clever lawyers to find legal loopholes and technical escape valves; and sometimes by bribing public officials for the sake of protection. But always in racketeering there is the spirit of getting something for nothing; the idea that "only the foolish work."
Following are some of the leading types of rackets: (1) Organized robbery, burglary, and larceny. This is usually carried on by criminal gangs and is, of course, in defiance of the law. (2) Dishonest business dealings such as misrepresenting funds, "watering" stock, profiteering on war contracts, promoting fake enterprises, managing banks, stock exchanges, or corporations fraudulent in kind and other varieties. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JANUARY 1946 LESSON DEPARTMENT (3) Organized racketeering of industries. Sometimes this is spoken of as "gangster" control, actually, although this kind of criminal more often escapes the hand of the law, white-collar crime cheats the public out of far more money each year than do the more obvious types of stealing. (3) Kidnapping. This extremely depraved form of racket flourished here some ten or fifteen years ago but the Lindbergh law, which prescribes the death penalty for kidnappers, and the activities of the Federal Bureau of Investigation have practically put an end to it. (4) Bootlegging and the black market. During the prohibition era bootlegging became so prevalent as to constitute a national scandal, and during World War II the black market has expanded to similar proportions. In both cases millions of people have shown themselves willing to take advantage of an artificial legal scarcity and to run against the law for the sake of personal profit. (5) Professional gambling. By playing upon people's willingness to take a chance in order to "get rich quick," and resorting to underhanded trickery, professional gamblers are able to take millions of dollars away from the American public each year. In some areas this is legal, but in most places where gambling establishments operate they do so outside the law. (6) Tribute for "protection." Organized gangs, in the larger cities particularly where they often have an "understanding" with the political machine in power, sometimes extort large sums of money from the various business establishments on the farce of "protection." Unless each establishment hands over to these gangsters the requested sum, it will find its buildings wrecked with a bomb, its goods destroyed with acid, or some other mysterious disaster happening to it—and knowing this, the 69 establishment usually — comes through. This is one of the most vicious types of racketeering. (7) Betrayal of public office. Where public officials accept bribes, let contracts at inflated figures with the understanding that they will get a "cut" from the contractor, sell their own goods to the government at padded values, or in any other way use their office dishonestly for personal profit, they are betraying the public and deserting all claim to morality. Political Corruption But this is exactly what is happening in so many cases-Organized crime and racketeering, discussed above; would have a difficult time surviving if it were not for the "big fix" where unscrupulous politicians agree to protect criminals, of both the overall and white-collar varieties, in return for votes and money. Political machines are closely organized party organizations that are primarily interested in votes and power regardless of how these are obtained. Party "bosses" with numerous henchmen under them administer their machines in an arbitrary, dictatorial manner. Votes are bought with money and_ personal favors; public jobs are handed out to supporters of the machine regardless of qualifications, and sometimes even jobs, which carry large compensations but little or no work, are created on the books for "faithful" party members; occasionally there is illegal control at the polls and a miscounting of votes. Machine politics is corrupt at its very core for it caters to vested interests, to pressure groups, and not to the will of the people. Corrupt politics is not confined to ~~ any one political party. Blind bigoted party loyalty, with little concern for the issues or the personalities involved, is as un-democratic as it is un-American; and yet we have and have had much of it. Narrow expediency in party politics, at the sacrifice of principle, is as un-Christian as it is immoral; and yet it abounds on every hand., As said in an earlier lesson, what we need is 'more statesmen and fewer politicians—more who are courageous enough to put justice and public welfare before private profit, and fewer who are willing to fleece the public for their own good. Since much of the inefficiency and corruption that is permitted to exist in government circles is there because of an uninformed and indifferent voting public, it follows that the only solution is an enlightened and aroused citizenry. War and Peace The periodic continuation of war throughout the ages, and the tendency for modern wars to be even more total in their brutality and their destructive tendencies than earlier ones is a pretty sad reflection upon the moral progress of mankind. War is basically immoral for it leads to suffering and sorrow rather than peace and happiness. And yet war persists and grows in intensity. But though war is an evil of considerable magnitude, it is not the greatest evil in the world today. Peace is highly desirable, but peace at any price is indefensible and inconceivable. The greatest evil of mankind is injustice, and until this can be eliminated wars will be inevitable and, to some extent, justifiable. There is no point in appeasing the perpetuators of wrong and Oppression; any compromise with error and evil is unthinkable. As wrong as war is, if it is a war for justice, truth, and righteousness it has some justification. (For a justification of killing for righteous purposes see 1 Nephi, chap. 4.) Permanent peace, the goal of mankind and the capstone of moral progress, can hardly be realized without the establishment first of all of equality and justice. Unless democracy and Christianity can be felt internally and lived nationally, there 'is little hope for any world-wide or universal application of these principles. Until we are wise enough and big enough to clean up our own house there is little chance that we will ever be able to help much in the building of a better world. Real happiness, then, can never come without peace, nor peace without justice, justice without brotherhood. The key to peace and happiness in this life, or the life to come, is and will always be love, equality, and justice. Problems for Thought and Action 1. Cite figures to show the great maldistribution of wealth in this country. Are all men equal in ability, in industry or effort, in opportunity? Give reasons for your answers. How do inequalities in ability, effort, and opportunity explain the inequalities in wealth? Which of these do you think are justified? Show how the profit motive often operates in defiance of ethics, Give illustrations from the various fields of economic activity, and discuss each. Why does justice require a more equable distribution of wealth and a further development of social security? Discuss aspects of this. Why does the elimination of need depend upon the elimination of greed? 2. Define racketeering. 70 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JANUARY 1946 LESSON DEPARTMENT How or why is it permitted to exist? Discuss each of the seven types of racketeering listed in the lesson, and give original examples for each type. 3. Why is blind party loyalty un-American? Why is expediency in party politics immoral? To what extent is the voting public responsible for corrupt politics? Can the problem be solved? How? 4. Why is moder war a reflection on moral progress? Show that injustice is an even greater evil than war. Is killing ever justified? Defend your answer. Do you think the world will ever have permanent peace? If so, how will it be brought about? Discuss. 71 Selected References Standard Works: Bible: Matt. 5:9; 6:19-21; 25:31-46; Acts 20:35; Ephesians 4:28; I Timothy 6:6-12; James 3:1-18; 5:1-6. Doc. And Cov. 56:16. Books by L. D. S. Authors: Talmage, JAMES E., The Vitality of Mormonism (Boston: Gorham Press, 1919). "Worldly Gain—Eternal Loss," Pages 352-354.; Bennion, Mitton, Moral Teachings of the New Testament (Salt Lake City, Utah: Deseret Book Co., 1928), "Property," pages 175-182; "Justice and Civil Government; "Peace and War," "Conclusion," pages 198-227. THE MORNING STAR Courtney E. Cottam Black is the night of my despair, Cold, cold before the dawn; Hope's congealed within my heart, My idols are fallen and gone; I am alone. In the anguish of my grief, One ray of hope shines through, The Morning Star, the Light of Christ, His promise, ever new; And night is gone. LETTER Nan S. Richardson Dear Emma: So you think I am feeble— how little you know About your big sister out here in the snow; I'll tell you about it, I'll be honest as of yore, In a very short time I will be eighty-four. To begin with, last year, I had passed eighty-three, Just what I could do, Santa Claus told to me. So I made fourteen doilies— some large and some small. Four pillow cases— handmade lace and all. I crocheted three shopping bags, they are handy and neat To take down to the stores and use on the street. To carry small parcels, Christmas ribbons and tags. To help out the salvage and save paper bags. Then came two house dresses— all trimmed with stitchin', Five calico aprons to wear in the kitchen. I help make my dresses, I trim hats and mend. One can always find sewing that never does end. Now I wash and I iron, I sweep with a broom; I mop and I cook and I clean my own room; I write dozens of letters, and this is no joke, If it weren't for me. Uncle Sam would go broke. To Relief Society sometimes I go To work on the quilts and help others sew; They sent me a bag of soft flannel scraps To make little quilts for sick men's laps. If my friends take the notion to have a nice lunch And if I'm invited, I go with the bunch; I dance and I sing, I have plenty to say. With the help of a stick I can walk every day. Old age makes one slow— I've lost all my speed. But you'll have to confess that I've not gone to seed. I get pretty tired, but I'm willing to try; And I'll never give up till the day that I die. I count all my blessings, dear sister, a score. Then why should I care if I am eighty-four! So I'm hoping these lines will bring consolation. Brigham Young University Welcomes— The Hundreds of Returning Service Men and Women Who Choose To Resume Their. Studies at the CHURCH UNIVERSITY Provo, Utah * WINTER QUARTER begins January 7, 1946 MUSIC SPECIALLY SUITABLE FOR RELIEF SOCIETY I LOVE A LITTLE COTTAGE FLAG WITHOUT A STAIN (White) a a 15 BLESS THIS HOUSE _ 15 GOD IS LOVE (Shelley) , ALICE BLUE GOWN (Tierney).....20 PEACE I LEAVE WITH YOU (Roberts).10 Above numbers in octavo. Less 10% discount, plus postage. We specialize in L. D. S. Church music. Also carry large stock for schools and home use. Dealers in Steinway and Lester pianos, band and orchestra instruments, talking machines, records and musicians' supplies. DAYNES MUSIC CO. We solicit your patronage use the To be perfectly at home with The Doctrine and Covenants Concordance To The Doctrine and Covenants By JOHN V. BLUTH of the Church Historian's Office $3.00 A comprehensive, accurate, thorough guide to thousands of passages DESERET BOOK COMPANY "THE BOOK CENTER OF THE INTERMOUNTAIN WEST" 44 East South Temple Street, P. O. Box 958, Salt Lake City 10, Utah When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine (O'Hara) - 47 So. Main St. 15 Salt Lake City When Winter Comes There can be found no substitute for the blazing hearth and lighted window of home.—Make sure your children will always have the protection and security of a home by carrying adequate life insurance. INSURANCE HOME OFFICE—BENEFICIAL LIFE BUILDING SALT LAKE City 1. UTAH GEORGE ALBERT SMITH. PRESIDENT VOL. 33 NO 2 FEBRUARY 1946 Lessons for May THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZIN E Monthly publication of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints RELIEF SOCIETY GENERAL BOARD Belle S. Spafford - - President Marianne C. Sharp - First Counselor Second Counselor - Secretary-Treasurer Gertrude R. Garff Margaret C. Pickering Achsa E. Paxman Anna B. Hart Florence J. Madsen Blanche B. Stoddard Mary G. Judd Edith S. Elliott Ann P. Nibley Evon W. Peterson Luella N. Adams. Priscilla L. Evans. Leone G. Layton Leone O. Jacobs RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Editor  - - - - - Velma N. Simonsen - - Marianne C. Sharp Editorial Secretary - General Manager - - -Vesta P. Crawford - Belle S. Spafford Vol. 33 FEBRUARY 1946 No. 2 Con tents SPECIAL FEATURES American Statesmen—Their Attitude Toward God..000.002.02202----Elder El Ray L. Christiansen Mormonism in the Eyes of the Press: The World Receives the News of Joseph Smith's Death... Elder James R. Clark Fifty and One Ideas For You and For Your Home Blanche M. Condie FICTION The Ring of Strength—Second Prize Story Ring Out the Old And For Eternity—Chapter 9.... Alice Morrey Bailey Estelle Webb Thomas Olive Woolley Burt Sixty Years Ago ' Editorials: “Study My Word" Marianne C. Sharp Congratulations to Sister Lyman on Her Birthday......... Notes From the Field: Messages From the Missions (Continued General Secretary-Treasurer Margaret C. Pickering  Dr. Florence J. Madsen LESSON DEPARTMENT Theology: The Building of Temples Continues Dr Music Notes. H. Wayne Driggs Visiting Teachers' Messages: Charity Never Faileth...........0..:.2c0-Dr. Lowell L. Bennion Literature: Bible Influence as Revealed in Children's Literature _...... Dr. Howard R. Driggs Social Science: Morality and the Church Dr. Harold T. Christensen POETRY The Dream Is Ours—Frontispiece......... Christie Lund Coles To Elizabeth... The Storm... To Marie.............---- My Old Green Chest Olive M. Nicholes Evelyn Fijelsted Adeline J. Haws a. Grace M. Candland Elsie C. Carroll Twilight..........Ada N. Jones Crucible Beatrice K. Ekman A Prayer .. Celia Van Cott PUBLISHED MONTHLY BY THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY Editorial and Business Offices: 28 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City 1, Utah, Phone 3-2741. Ex. 248. Subscription Price: $1.00 a year; foreign, $1.00 a year; payable in advance. Single copy, 10c. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving both old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1108, Act of October &, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts wil not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts. MAGAZINE CIRCULATION, 74,000 Abraham Lincoln Speaks Again  What the Children Can Do For Woman's Sphere Star in Her Window.......... Vesta P. Crawford... Dr. M. Lynn Bennion Ramona W. Cannon Ruth H. Chadwick THE RELIEF Sel MAGAZINE VOL. 33, NO. 2 FEBRUARY 1946 THE DREAM IS OURS Christie Lund Coles If Washington could come to Valley Forge And stand where gallant men gave precious life, These are, perhaps, the words that he would say, Beholding man's disunity and strife: "You, living, would preserve your heritage Had you but seen the cost of freedom, known the hope That calls to the downtrodden of the world, Sensed its promise and visualized its scope." If Lincoln could return from out the night, Beyond the misted stars that guard his sleep, He'd stand before us, heavy-laden, sad With eyes too full of weariness to weep. And he would say, I think, if he could speak: 'We fought our battle well. We won the fight. We died for a great cause, that brotherhood Be born and grow into a living light. "How can your hearts betray us, we who died, Who cannot rest with war stalking the earth; Who know how many have been crucified To bring this hard-won freedom into birth. "Now, now before it is forever late, Search well your souls, let go your greed and lust, Unite together for the common good, And make a world to justify our trust." If Washington and Lincoln could return To stand upon these loved and sacred shores, They'd say: "The duty and the dream were ours... And now the duty... And the dream... Are yours!" The Cover: "Bryce Canyon" from a photograph by Dr. Walter P. Cottam —Photograph courtesy South Dakota State Highway Commission, Pierre, South Dakota "THE SHRINE OF DEMOCRACY," MOUNT RUSHMORE MEMORIAL, SOUTH DAKOTA American Statesmen—Their Attitude Toward God Elder El Ray L. Christiansen President Logan Temple HAT America has a divine destiny is shown by the decrees of the Almighty as recorded in the scriptures. In the Book of Mormon the Lord has said: _.. Behold, this is a choice land, and whatsoever nation shall possess it shall be free from bondage, and from captivity, and from all other nations under heaven, if they will but serve the God of the land, who is Jesus Christ (Ether 2:12). This is a wonderful promise, but like other promises of the Lord, its fulfillment is dependent upon adherence to the righteous principles upon which the promise is predicated. It makes no difference how mighty and strong a nation is, how rich in resources or how powerful in military might, if it ceases to have faith in God and fails to govern its people according to principles of righteousness, it faces certain downfall. Nor does our beloved America stand exempt, for the Lord God who brought it into being, and has greatly favored it, decreed that if the American people should forget the Lord and "become ripened in iniquity" they would be swept off. If this should happen, or if subjugation should come to the people of this land, it will come because we in America have reached a fulness of iniquity. It seems reasonable to believe that the fate of a republican form of government is determined by the degree of its adherence to the principles of Christianity, and that governments and people who reject these principles will find themselves slaves to their own evil ways or of some arbitrary power. It is impossible to govern the world successfully without God, for, after all, God governs the world. Justice to man and a settled faith in God should be two of the most outstanding attributes of the statesmen of America. The progress and perpetuity of this great government, and for that matter of any democracy, depends upon the righteous endeavor of its statesmen, as well as its citizens, and their adherence to the religion of the Master. "Righteousness exalteth a nation: but sin is a reproach to any people" (Prov. 14:34). It is encouraging to know that the great majority of the statesmen of America have, in some degree to say the least, acknowledged a faith in God and in righteous living. We can safely say that those who have achieved lasting greatness in America have been God-fearing men who have felt dependent upon an almighty power and who acknowledged that power from time to time. We believe that the Lord prepared for the time when his gospel should be restored in its fulness to Page 75 the earth. We consider that the men in the American Revolution were inspired by the Almighty to throw off the shackles of the mother government. For this purpose Adams, Jefferson, Franklin, Washing: ton, and a host of others were inspired to deeds of resistance and to bringing into existence the Constitution of the United States. To the Latter-day Saints the Constitution is an inspired document, for the Lord has said: For this purpose have I established the Constitution of this land, by the hands of wise men whom I raised up unto this very purpose, and redeemed the land by the shedding of blood (Doc. And Cov. 101:80). Statements from these early patriots prove that they were humble men who recognized their dependence upon the goodness of God. Let me list a few: Washington openly acknowledged the hand of Providence in shaping the affairs and destiny of America, for he said: No people can be found to acknowledge and adore the Invisible Hand which conducts the affairs of men more than the people of the United States. Every step by which they have advanced to the character of an independent nation seems to have been distinguished by some token of providential agency. There were many occasions during the Revolutionary War when Washington demonstrated his faith in the guidance and protection of the Supreme Being, and often expressed his belief that "God in His great goodness will direct the course of the conflict." In his first Thanksgiving Proclamation as President of the United States of America, Washington declared: edge the providence of the Almighty God to obey His will, to be grateful for His benefits, and humbly implore His protection and favor. How could a nation go far astray in its policies with a leader who looked to God for wisdom and implored others to do likewise? He felt that the determinations of Providence were always wise whether they appeared to be in his favor or not. When in command of the Virginia Regiment, he gave orders for the officers and men under his command to assemble each Sunday and have prayers and devotion. He maintained that "True religion and morals afford a government its purest support." Elbert Hubbard said of Washington, "His purity of purpose stands unimpeached, his steadfast earnestness and sterling honesty are priceless examples." GENUINE religious feeling was deep in the heart of Benjamin Franklin. He prayed that he might be preserved from atheism, irreverence, ostentations, and hypocrisy. His great desire was to be loyal to "my Prince," that he might remain humble and submissive to the will of the Lord. It was he who calmly arose in the Constitutional Convention after days of discord and little progress and said: Mr. President, I perceive that we are not in condition to pursue this business Our blood is too hot... - the different which, having been formed with the seeds of their own dissolution, now no longer exist. In this situation of this assembly, groping as it were in the dark, to find 16 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1946 political truth, and scarce able to distinguish it when presented to us, how has it happened, Sir, that we have not hitherto once thought of humbly applying to the Father of light to illuminate our understanding? In the beginning of the contest with Great Britain, when we were sensible to danger, we had daily prayer in this room for divine protection. Our prayers, Sir, were heard; and they were graciously answered. To that kind Providence we owe this happy opportunity of consulting, in peace, on the means of establishing our future national felicity; and have we now forgotten that powerful Friend? Or do we imagine that we no longer need His assistance? I have lived, Sir, a long time; and the longer I live the more convincing proofs I see of this truth, that God governs the affairs of men. It is said that after the convention accepted Franklin's suggestion and called upon the Lord for help, distinct progress was made and our magnificent Constitution was the result. There is always hope for progress and safe legislation when our statesmen realize their own limitations and earnestly seek the Lord's help! The religion of Abraham Lincoln was based in both doctrine and practice on the Savior's admonition "Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, and with all thy soul, and with all thy mind.... And.... Thou shalt love thy neighbor as thyself." He joined no particular church but, nevertheless, he stands before us as one humbly seeking the inspiration, counsel, and help of the Almighty, praying for guidance from above and giving help and sympathy to all about him. He had an unshaken faith in the ultimate success of the right, and in the darkest hours of his days in the White House, he declared that he almost lived on his knees. In reply to an address from the Society of Friends, delivered to him at the White House, September 28, 1862, Lincoln said: I am glad to know I have your sympathy and prayers. In the very responsible position in which I happen to be placed, being a humble instrument in the hands of our Heavenly Father, as I am and as we all are, to work out His great purposes, I have desired that all my works and acts may be according to His will and that it might be so, I have sought His aid. In the life of Woodrow Wilson, religion was so ingrained that there was never speculation, let alone doubt, in regard to Deity. He had an absolutely immovable faith in God. He once declared in public, "I do not understand how any man can approach the discharge of the duties of life without faith in the Lord Jesus Christ." He faithfully observed the Sabbath Day. He knew that the fate and progress of the nation were dependent upon the spir itual integrity of its citizens, for he said, "Our civilization cannot survive materially unless it be redeemed spiritually." Calvin Coolidge states in his autobiography that when the office of President of the United States came to him, following the death of President Harding, he and his wife knelt in prayer before leaving their bedroom where the message was given him, and asked God to "bless the American people and give me the power to serve them." Many times thereafter he approached God in prayer supplicating him for wisdom. Surely here is a mark of greatness. William Jennings Bryan, one of America's distinguished statesmen who swayed audiences with his oratory and who was three times candidate for President, had a most whole some concept of God and a firm belief in the efficacy of prayer. AMERICAN STATESMEN—THEIR ATTITUDE TOWARD GOD 71 Said he: The great need of the world today is to get back to God—back to a real belief in a living God—to a belief in God as creator, preserver, and loving Heavenly Father. When one believes in a personal God and considers himself as part of God's plan, he will be anxious to know God's will and to do it, seeking direction through prayer and made obedient through faith... President Harry S. Truman has indicated his need of God's help since he has already called for special days of prayer for victory, thanksgiving and peace, and has asked the people of America to seek divine aid in maintaining the peace. Surely any nation in the hands of statesmen who habitually seek divine guidance is more certain of realizing its rightful destiny than would otherwise be the case. While a religious attitude on the part of an individual does not place him beyond error, it is certain that, with a genuine desire for righteousness, he is a better man and will more likely be a better servant of the people. This belief is sustained in modern revelation where we read: We believe that governments were instituted of God for the benefit of man; and that he holds men accountable for their acts in relation to them, both in making laws and administering them, for the good and safety of society (Doc. And Cov. 134:1).. From the same source we obtain this admonition, "wherefore, honest men and wise men should be sought for diligently, and good men and wise men ye should observe to uphold; otherwise whatsoever is less than these cometh of evil" (Doc. And Cov. 98:10). Indeed, "Righteousness exalteth a nation!" Se comes TO ELIZABETH Olive M. Nicholes The notes take wing beneath your finger tips; On bright, ecstatic pinions beat the air Like larks, still rising up until the lips, In unison, burst forth in glorious song. Even the scales—like busy little quail Running through blowing grass the whole day long, Twitter and nod each black, top-knotted crest. Beethoven's, Brahm's, and Mozart's melodies Live, re-created in your soul, thrice blest, While I, who held your head against my heart, Can only marvel at the miracle: That of this splendid one, I share a part. 78 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1946 Abraham Lincoln Speaks Again Vesta P. Crawford TODAY the career of Abraham Lincoln is being remembered with a new vividness and a new devotion. There are many who think once more of his famous "House Divided" speech and of his immortal words—"With malice toward none." Abraham Lincoln has been called the Great American, the Kingly Commoner, the World's Foremost Citizen. More than four thousand full-length books have been written about his life. Songs and plays have celebrated his words and deeds, his name is a household word throughout the land. It is still the American dream that the most humble boy may some day become President. One of Lincoln's best friends analyzed his remarkable rise to power in these simple words: How such a man as Lincoln could walk up to the highest point of human grandeur, from such low origin, God only knows. But he was so ordained from the beginning, and so it is. From among the thousands of poems written in honor of the Great Emancipator, there is one outstanding composition that bears a message for our times. Written with reference to the first World War and what might have been Lincoln's attitude towards it, this poem is just as true, just as vivid, today and there is a world of thought back of each simple line. At this time of remembering Lincoln, this honoring of his birth. Day, it is entirely suitable to recall the words of the poem "Abraham Lincoln Walks at Midnight." The author is Vachel Lindsay who was born in Springfield, Illinois, in the year 1870. From his boyhood Vachel was familiar with the streets where Lincoln walked, the houses where he lived, the courts where he tried his cases, the fields where he wandered in contemplation. Vachel grew up on the Lincoln stories of how Abraham walked along the streets reading a book, sometimes not even noticing the people who passed, how he stayed very late in his law office pondering over the intricacies of the State code, how he made speeches, homely, understandable speeches, in the days when he was running for office. Vachel Lindsay was familiar with the history of Lincoln's life and he knew also the feel of the same country, the reach of the prairie, the solitude of the forest, the tide of the rivers. He knew the same type of people that Lincoln had known. Very early he heard the story of how young "Abe" came from Indiana to Illinois. This man, this long, tall, bony, homely, wiry, sad, gloomy man floated into our country in 1831, in a frail canoe down the north fork of the Sangamon River, friendless, penniless, powerless, and alone, tagged, struggling for the common necessities of life. In the years between 1905 and 1910 when Vachel Lindsay, the young poet-reformer, was lecturing Page 79 for the Y. M. C. A. And the Anti-Saloon League, he was particularly interested in studying what had been Lincoln's attitude toward the temperance question. He collected the statements of such men as James Gourley, who said: Lincoln was a great temperance man..... He would go afoot five or ten miles to talk..... I got him to join the Sons of Temperance in 1854. And once Lincoln said, "I never drink and am entitled to no credit therefor, because I hate the stuff." Vachel Lindsay studied every phase of Lincoln's character before he began writing his famous poem. The opening lines strike a contemplative mood: It is portentous, and a thing of state That here at midnight in our little town, A mourning figure walks and will not rest, Near the old court-house pacing up and down. No doubt Lindsay was thinking back to what Springfield must have been like when Lincoln first came to the place in 1837, the year that Springfield became the capital of Illinois. Lincoln had left the New Salem country to the east where, two years before, he had seen Ann Rutledge die. She was only twenty-two then, golden-haired and blue-eyed, and Lincoln, who was twenty-six, was already a member of the State Legislature and a man of ability and promise. The poem, in the second verse, tells of the places in Springfield where Lincoln walked: Or by his homestead or in shadowed yards He lingers where his children used to play; Or through the market on the well-worn stones, He walks until the dawn-stars burn away. BY his homestead. That tall house where he and his wife, Mary Todd, lived for many years. The house where Robert Todd Lincoln was born in the year 1843, the place where the other Lincoln boys spent their happiest days, a house where children's voices echoed through the big rooms. The well-worn stones of the street where Lincoln pulled his children in their little wagon. The streets where Lincoln talked with his neighbors who helped him to see the vital problems that faced not only Springfield but every town in America. A bronzed lank man! His suit of ancient black, A famous high-top hat and plain worn shawl, Make his the quaint figure that men love, The prairie lawyer, master of us all. This portrait of Lincoln is familiar to everyone, familiar from picture and poem and story. It has been said that when "Lincoln was moved by some great or good feeling—by some idea of liberty or justice or right—then he seemed an inspired man. It was then that Lincoln's nature was beautiful and in complete harmony with the laws of the great Eternal..... Lincoln was a great man, a good man, and a pure one, and beneath his rough exterior nature wove her fine network." He cannot sleep upon his hillside now, He is among us—as in times before! And we who toss and lie awake for long Breathe deep, and start, to see him pass the door. Upon his hillside. The tomb of Lincoln lies in Oak Ridge Cemetery, Springfield, Illinois. 'The monument which dedicates the burial plot is 80 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1946 ABRAHAM LINCOLN SPEAKS AGAIN made of brick faced with Quincy granite. An obelisk 135 feet high rises from the monument. BUT Vachel Lindsay, the poet, thinks of Lincoln as still alive in the city he loved. His head is bowed. He thinks of men and kings. Yea, when the sick world cries, how can he sleep? Too many peasants fight, they know not why; Too many homesteads in black terror weep. The sins of all the war-lords burn his heart. He sees the dreadnaughts scouring every main. He carries on his shawl-wrapped shoulders now The bitterness, the folly and the pain, Here the interpretation of Lincoln's character is given in its broad strength. For this American believed unwaveringly in the possibilities of everyone. To him there was no living soul who did not have "a kernel of divinity." One of Lincoln's associates, in analyzing his elements of greatness, said: "He was a kind, tender, and sympathetic man, feeling deeply in the presence of suffering, pain, wrong, Or oppression in any shape.... He was just to men, he loved the night, the good, the true, with all his soul. He was always noble..... Mr. Lincoln now stands up against the deep blue sky, the grandest figure of the age." 81 He cannot rest until a spirit dawn Shall come—the shining hope of Europe fie: The league of sober folk, the Worker's Earth, Bringing long peace to cornland, Alp and sea, Those who were privileged to live in Lincoln's generation have borne witness of his limitless courage. "If he was defending right, defending liberty, eulogizing the Declaration of Independence, then he extended out his arms, the palms of his hands upwards, as if appealing to some superior power for assistance and support. It was at such moments that he seemed inspired, fresh from the hands of the Creator," Lincoln's gray eyes would flash fire when he was speaking against slavery, and they spoke volumes of hope and love when he referred to justice, liberty, and the progress of mankind. It breaks his heart that kings must murder still, That all his hours of travail here for men Seem yet in vain. And who will bring white peace That he may sleep upon his hill again? The poem ends with a question, a challenge—who will there be in this time of need to uphold the ideals of Abraham Lincoln and place them upon a standard high enough for all the world to see? "I go for all sharing the privilege of the government who assist in bearing its burden”—Abraham Lincoln Second Prize Story Annual Relief Society Short Story Contest The Ring of Strength Alice Morrey Bailey MILLIE WALTERS sat very still. Across from her, Dr. Phelps leaned forward through the shaft of afternoon sunlight, intently searching her face, dreading, she knew, to tell her what he had to say. "Cancer," he said finally. "Is it—is it—? Would an operation—" Millie faltered through dry lips. "If you had. Only come sooner! Millie, it's too late. I could operate, yes, but it wouldn't do any good." "How long?" Millie managed. "Six months. Maybe a little more, with care." Dimly she heard his voice going on in prognostication. "Millie, if I didn't know you so well I wouldn't have told you. You make such precious use of time. Can I take you home?" he finished. "I have my car. I'll be all right." "Yes, I think you will," Dr. Phelps said, an edge of admiration in his voice. It was oddly true that Millie was all right. Strange that she could follow the pattern of gear shifting, could thread her way through the heavy traffic of the business district with some cool, mechanical part of her, while the real woman cowered Page 82 ALICE MORREY BAILEY back, unable to cope with this terrifying lump of truth that sat immovable, blocking every normal thought in the roadways of her mind. Strange that, longing as she did to flee to the cool sanctuary of her room, she could go about the usual preparations of the family dinner. Julie, seven, was already home from school and came presently to ask her for a bonnet. "Not a regular bonnet, Mommy. A pi'neer bonnet, you know, that comes out in the front and down in the back." THE RING OF STRENGTH "You mean a slat bonnet? Yes, I can make one. Great-grandmother Preece wore one across the plains when she was your age." Julie leaned her small elbows on the window sill and looked wistfully up to the blossoming pear tree. "Pi'neers were just about the bravest people in the world. They had just lots and lots of courage. I wish I was a pi'neer, don't you, Mother?" ''I certainly do, Julie." Never more than now, she thought, had she wished for the courage of the pioneers. The need for help was heavy upon her. It was too stupendous a burden to bear alone. Her family would be kind to her when she told them, thoughtful. They would ease her tasks, bring her flow-ers and books. That might help. ''Do you think we'd have been pi-neers. Mother? Or do you think we'd have been too scaredy-cats to come across the plains?" 'The Indians are friendly now, good roads are built for us, food is plentiful— we have our lovely homes —I don't honestly know, Julie. I don't know what courage it would take to leave all this and go into an unknown wilderness. I guess we'll never know." AT the dinner table she looked at her family of five as an artist weighs his handiwork, lovingly but critically, at everything about them, their looks, their mannerisms, for every act revealed the character and identity of each. "For Pete's sake," Tod was saying to Anne. "Mother's right. A guy trying to get through medical school has two strikes already on him when he's married." "Not Bob," said Anne. "He wants it as much as I do. I'd work. I'd help him." "Work! Ha! You can't even boil water, rinse your own nylons or make your bed. First thing you'd do is have a b a by. Then wher e 'd he be?" Anne was crestfallen in momentary defeat. "Mother! Diane goes— all the girls are going to the dance— please say I can," begged Lois suddenly. Millie glanced at their father, but he was subdued in his thoughts as if he hadn't heard. "We'll discuss it later," she said. "Look, Small Stuff, you're under seventeen,” said Tod from his lofty twenty years. "Besides, you haven't got a date . Millie, li stening to this non-rancorous banter thought, with sick misgivings: They're spoiled! And I did it. Tod was right about Anne —Lois, too, in the sloppy clothes she wears, tempestuous, unpredictable and immature; wanting poise at the dangerous age of mistaking sophistication for it. Even Tod was presumptuous and overbearing, though he was on the right track educationally. It w as law for his father, and law for him. His logic was good, his justice unshakable, if only Henry would see it and help him. What would the ugly truth hiding within her do to them? Certainly it would as diabolically shift their valuations as it had her own in a few short seconds. Henry was even more dependent on her than were the children, the sort of man who couldn't find a shirt or tie a tie. Millie knew that these things were trivial beside the deeper needs Henry felt for her, his habit, "Not Bob," said Anne. "He wants it as much as I do. I'd work. I'd help him." "Work! Ha! You can't even boil water, rinse your own nylons or make your bed. First thing you'd do is have a b a by. Then wher e 'd he be?" Anne was crestfallen in momentary defeat. "Mother! Diane goes— all the girls are going to the dance— please say I can," begged Lois suddenly. Millie glanced at their father, but he was subdued in his thoughts as if he hadn't heard. "We'll discuss it later," she said. "Look, Small Stuff, you're under seventeen/' said Tod from his lofty twenty years. "Besides, you haven't got a date . Millie, listening to this non-rancorous banter thought, with sick misgivings: They're spoiled! And I did it. Tod was right about Anne —Lois, too, in the sloppy clothes she wears, tempestuous, unpredictable and immature; wanting poise at the dangerous age of mistaking sophistication for it. Even Tod was presumptuous and overbearing, though he was on the right track educationally. It w as law for his father, and law for him. His logic was good, his justice unshakable, if only Henry would see it and help him. What would the ugly truth hiding within her do to them? Certainly it would as diabolically shift their valuations as it had her own in a few short seconds. Henry was even more dependent on her than were the children, the sort of man who couldn't find a shirt or tie a tie. Millie knew that these things were trivial beside the deeper needs Henry felt for her, his habit, me please, Mother. I'm not a child, you know." The usual arguments. "Ask your father," said Millie. "Ask Father?" Lois' jaw dropped and she searched Millie's face for signs of surrender. Henry looked up from his paper, his face blank with surprise. Millie could see the usual words forming in his mind and calmly beat him to it. "It is entirely up to your father. Anything he says is all right with me." To make it more final she left the room. Anne had already gone up-stairs to g et ready for Bob, who was coming at eight. Millie met Tod in the hallway. "Mom, have you gone out of your mind?" he whispered. "Dad'll let her go, and that place is a den of wolves," Millie looked him straight in the eyes. "I'm sure your father's judgment can be trusted," she said, and passed him, "Well, for Pete's sake!"' Anne met her at the head of the stairs. "Mother what am | going to tell Bob? What have you against him? Why don't you let us get Married? | Suppose it is because he is only a student and you think he isn't good enough—" "I think Bob is a very fine young man!" "Then why—?" "I was thinking of Bob)" Anne's eyes were big and unbe. Lieving. "You mean that you think that I-your own daughter—" Millie took Anne's chin into her hand and tilted the flushed face up, looking deeply into the blue eyes. "Anne, when you marry a doctor you marry someone who comes as 84 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1946 THE RING OF STRENGTH neatly being above mortals as humans ever get—a good doctor, | mean. And Bob is going to be that kind. Only one thing could stop him—someone he loves as much as he does you." "But Mother, don't you think that [—?" "The truth is, I don't know. No mother ever loved a child more than I do you, but the biggest share of a mother's love is hope, and the rest blind faith." "Mother, I think you're awful," sobbed Anne as she fled. "I'll be eighteen in another month, and no one can stop me." MILLIE stood there a minute while the weakness and heartache reached up in her, but not for long. Lois was rushing wildly up the stairs. "Mother! Mother, he says I can go. You don't need to tell me what to wear—I know exactly, and Julie can watch me dress, like she does Anne." "What a welcome silence—like turning off the washer," commented Millie later, as the front door closed on the chattering girls. Anne had gone with Bob long since, and Julie was in bed. Tod was rumpling his hair over lessons at the living room desk, and Henry was pacing up his legal problem as Millie picked up her darning. "Better than that," he grumbled. "Like turning off the power in a machine shop." "What's on your mind, Henry? You've been thoughtful all evening." "It's that Moody case. I know that man is guilty—but how to drive it 85 into the open. The whole thing is clouded up with clever psychology. The man seems invulnerable. The whole thing is bound to be laughed right out of court." "I know. It has every aspect of the Wilson case years ago. They got him, though," said Millie, biting off a thread. "The Wilson case," ruminated Henry. "Just how did that go now?" Henry knew that case forward and backward but it was Millie's cue, she knew, to be drawn into it. Suddenly she longed intensely for just that. "T saw Tod cramming on it just the other night. Tod, tell your father about that Wilson case." Henry stopped short in the middle of the floor, gave her an amazed look, and glanced at Tod as if he were an intruder. Millie held her breath, but Tod answered: "Sure Dad. It was like this—" and was off to a brilliant summation when Millie made her escape, murmuring vague excuses. She could see surprise and interest registering on Henty's face, and felt a little pang of jealousy. Their voices rose and fell while she lay rigid in her bed staring into nightmare, worrying over them all, but especially Lois. That place was as Tod said—a den of wolves. What had she done, casting a baby like Lois among them? What had she done to Anne? What invisible tides dragged at a girl cut adrift without the assurance of her mother's faith? And to Henry, sidetracking in his need for her? What of Tod? And what of Julie! When Henry came to bed at ten she feigned sleep, though she heard his sigh of satisfaction and knew his problem was settled, clear-cut in his mind. She lay awake while emotion built up in her, slow anger that she should be cut short of life, of her work as a mother and wife, unreasoned anger at Dr. Phelps. In the face of such futility, ignorance would have been easier.. - - SHE was still awake, fighting the frantic worry over Lois at one o'clock when she felt Henry start with the same thought. Lois should be home now. She should have caught the twelve-forty lineup. Henry should have made arrangements to pick up all the girls at the dance. It had been hard not to point it out to him at their leaving; as hard now to keep still and let him worry alone. Anne, too, should be home. Bob never kept her out after twelve, but Henry wasn't giving her a thought. He was dressing now, interrupting himself to look anxiously out the window at every suggestion of a footstep on the street below. Presently a knock came at the bedroom door. It was Tod, fully dressed, in the light of the hall. "Where do you think the kid is? It's anybody's guess at this time of night." "Sh—. Don't waken your mother. We'll get in the car and go find her." It was another hour of weariness and despair before Anne came, Bob with her. A bedraggled Anne with limp hair and white lips. Bob brought her up the stairs and to Millie's door. Millie sat up, clasping the blankets about her. "There was an accident. We came along right after. Pretty gory, but I think they will all live." Bob was exhausted, but there was 4 lilt of pride in his voice. "Anne was right in there with me. She's solid! The ambulance came finally. I have to report to the police. Got them to let me drop Anne off before she passed out on me. She'll do!" He held up his hand in a little signal of valor and was gone. "Don't get up, Mother. I want to get in with you. Oh, Mother!" Anne collapsed sobbing into Millie's arms, shivering with nervous reaction. Millie tucked the covers around her and patted her, letting her cry until she was warm and quiet. "He was magnificent, Mother. He knew just everything to do. There was a man with a broken leg and a woman with a fractured skull. They were all in shock—broken glass every where. I helped. I did everything Bob told me—but I could see what you mean. Oh Mother, Bob knows so much, and I am so—so ignorant!" "The big thing is, Darling, you got through. You didn't faint, or scream, or pout because he didn't ay attention to you. Some girls would have, you know. You had courage." "Did I, Mother? Oh, Mother, do you think I could learn? He may never need me to help him in his actual work again. I realize this was an accident. What Bob needs is just what you are to me—someone reassuring to come home to—a home well-kept and warm and comfortable. I'm not going to work this summer. I'm going to run the house, and you're going to teach me everything about it that you know. And Mother! There's little sweet 86 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1946 THE RING OF STRENGTH Julie. I want children. Could I learn about them from her? I want to curl her hair, plan her food and her reading, take her places with me, and sew for her." JULIE laughed. "You can start that in the morning, since it is Saturday. She wants a slat bonnet so she can be a 'pi'neer.' Anne, some day I hope you will look back and see what a great load you have lifted from my heart by the things you've just told me." There was a great commotion on the street below. Nothing but a stripped-down car full of high school kids could produce the sputter and roar and too loud laughter. Lois coming home, and immediately the sound of brown car on the drive. There we: e sharp voices in the hallway. Td's demanding: "Does it occur to you, Ant-brain, that someone might be worrying about you? Or that Ye Olde Towne Clocke is still on duty if none of you had watches?" "I've not done a wrong thing, Tod Walters. Why can't I have some fun? Why can't I have some freedom? Can I help it if the other girls got dates at the dance, or if I missed the lineup, or if I had to depend on them to get me home?" Millie turned on her light as they came up the stairs and they all came in, Tod angry, Lois defiant, and Henry sternly judicial. "There's a good deal about this whole affair that could have been helped," he said. His voice was quiet, but edged with a new authority. "In the first place I should never have let you go, Lois, without the 87 proper arrangement and chaperonage. I assure you it will never happen again," That melted Lois. "Oh, gee, Daddy. I'm really sorry. I didn't think anyone would worry. I was all tight." She leaned against the doorjamb in a childish gesture of woe, and wept. "Hi, Kitten," said Tod, unable to bear it. "If you want to step out to dances I'll take you, only not garbed like that. You've got to dress like a lady if you go places with me." "Oh, Tod! Honest?" Instantly Lois was all smiles. "Mommy," she said, rushing over to kneel beside the bed. Anne slipped out to give her a place. "Will you let me have some nylons and a keen dress—the kind Anne wears?" At that moment, a sleepy-eyed Julie appeared in the doorway. Anne smiled and held out her hand as Julie came over to her. "What a family!" smiled Millie looking around at them. There they all were, more closely knit, more welded to purpose, more individually strong than even a few hours back —a circle of growing strength ever so little less dependent on her. And that was her job—any mother's job, to build strength and independence into her family. Tonight was only a pattern of the days to come. There would be the task, there would be the heartache, often despair, perhaps failure, but if tonight were the pattern of triumph, then what could be done in a lifetime—even a short lifetime of six months? Julie broke away from Anne and came to put slim little arms about her mother's neck, 88 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1946 "Mother, I saw you tonight, with courage on your face. You’d have been a pi’neer!” “Oh, Baby!” said Millie, winking back the tears. She looked up at Henry. He and Anne were exchanging that parental look of astonishment. Alice Morrey Bailey, musician, composer, sculptor, artist, and writer, is a remarkably gifted Latter-day Saint woman. In addition to her outstanding accomplishments in the fine arts, she is a skillful nurse and an exemplary wife and mother, At present Mrs. Bailey is organist in the Eleventh Ward (Salt Lake City) M. I. A. And also choir organist. She has served in many other Church organizations and has written several excellent pageants and dramatized programs. Mrs. Bailey won first place in the Utah State Federation of Women's Clubs Poetry Contest in 1941 and second place in 1939. She has twice (1943 and 1945) received the Deseret News Christmas Story award. Readers of the Relief Society Magazine are familiar with Mrs. Bailey's stories and poems. Her story "The Wilderness" placed first in the 1941 Annual Relief Society Short Story Contest and her serial "The Merry-Go-Round" was featured in the Magazine during 1941 and 1942. THE STORM Evelyn Fjeldsted Dark skies seem strangely ominous Old trees bend in the wooded glen, Rain drenched winds descend.—Then calm, And soon the sun comes out again. And so it is with life at times, The way obscured, we can but wait; The winter of our fear sweeps on, Again we see our course laid straight. MORMONISM IN THE EYES OF THE PREWSS Elder James R. Clark Brigham Young University Copyright 1946 II THE WORLD RECEIVES THE NEWS OF JOSEPH SMITH’S DEATH (Second installment of a series of articles on early Latter-day Saint history.) THE Salt Lake Tribune for Thursday morning, April 26, 1945 New York Times news release on a new experience in journalism. Delegates at the to San Francisco Conference were surprised to have placed in their hands on April 25th, a copy of that
day's New York Times which had been "put to bed" at 2 a.m. in New York, 3,000 miles away. This rather spectacular feat was accomplished in the following manner, according to the news release: The four pages were set in type in the
composing room of the New York Times, and printers' proofs were taken every half
page. Each of these proofs was transmitted to San Francisco Over the Wirephoto facilities of the t he Associated Press, just as photographs have been transmitted for several years. In the San Francisco office of the Associated Press, in the Chronicle Building, each negative of a half page was developed and a print of it was made, A messenger from the publishing plant of the Richmond Independent,  fifteen miles distant, picked up the prints and hastened with them to his office, where photoengravers put together the half pages in correct order,
photographed the resultant full pages and made zinc engravings. From the engravings, 2,000 copies of the four page newspaper were run off on a flatbed letterpress in the Independent plant. Remarkable as is this achievement
in communication of news, it is overshadowed by modern newscasting
through radio. It would have seemed nothing short of a miracle to my
grandfather, who was four years old at the time of Joseph Smith's death,
could he have experienced the rapidity of present-day newscasting over the radio which was in its infancy at is death in 1929. A miracle that within minutes, the news of President Roosevelt's death was flashed to all parts of the world, and
that within hours, the flags of nations known to grandfather only
through books, were at half-mast in honor of a President of the United
States. This modern flight of time is in sharp contrast to the pace of the
world one hundred years ago. At his death in 1844, Joseph Smith was a national figure. His death, too, was news. But there were no radios nor press associations with vast facilities to flash the word over vast spaces and continents. Yet, people then, as now, relied on the press for their knowledge of what was going On. One of the most widely circulated news items of one hundred years ago was the death of Joseph Smith, Mormon prophet, June 27, 1844 at 5:16 p. M. At Carthage, Illinois. Let us see how the news of the death of the Mormon leader reached the American and British publics. I cannot determine, from the newspaper files available, who got the "beat" on the death of Joseph Smith, but I suspect that an extra from the Warsaw Signal or the Nauvoo Neighbor might have had the first announcement off the press. The news was sent in a letter by messenger from Carthage jail at 8:05 p. M. To Nauvoo, but it did not arrive in Nauvoo until sunrise the next morning. In the meantime, two other messengers, George D. Grant and David Bettisworth, were dispatched and, although detained by Governor Ford of Illinois, they reached Nauvoo the night of June 27th and brought the first verbal news to Nauvoo On June 29th, the Lee County Democrat, Fort Madison, Iowa Territory, stopped their presses and inserted a postscript which announced the death of Joseph Smith. The editor said: The news reached here early the morning of yesterday, but little credence was at the time given to the report until about 3 P. M. When we received from the hands of a gentleman direct from Nauvoo the following developments.... ""To the Editor of the Lee Co. Democrat, Nauvoo, June 28, 1844, 9 o'clock a. M. Sir—I hasten to inform you that Joseph Smith, the Mormon prophet, and his brother, Hyrum Smith were murdered in the jail of this county, at about 5 o'clock yesterday afternoon." On July 1st the People's Organ, St. Louis, Missouri, said that it was hard to get correct information, but that they thought Joseph Smith's body had been taken back to Nauvoo. The Missouri Whig, Palmyra, Missouri, for July 3d said: Some miscreants entered the jail and shot Holy Joe... We have received no intelligence from the seat of war, since the last action. The Sangamo, Journal, Springfield, Illinois, on July 4th said: Smith has given himself up... Thus far our news seems to be certain. Rumor says further, that on Thursday of last week Joe Smith, Hyrum Smith, and Dr. Richards were shot by a mob at Carthage. We are incredulous in regard to the truth on this subject; and this feeling is general in this community. On July 10th, the Warsaw Signal, Warsaw, Illinois, published an official reprimand by Brig. General M. R. Deming to the newspapers of the State for misrepresenting the facts surrounding the death of Joseph Smith.: The July 11th issue of the Burlington Hawkeye, Burlington, Iowa, had an account of the funeral for Joseph Smith held in Nauvoo on June 2oth. On July 13th the Lee County Democrat published its regrets over the death of Joseph Smith, but not all papers were sorry. The Jones- ~ burgh Whig, Jonesburgh, Union County, Illinois said in its issue of July 24th: Death of Joe Smith—Some of the public journals, we are sorry to see, regret the death of Joe Smith, the Mormon prophet. The Mormon semi-monthly, published at Nauvoo, Illinois—The 90 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1946 MORMONISM IN THE EYES OF THE PRESS Times and Seasons—put their July 1st issue in "mourning" and had a full account of the death and funeral of Joseph Smith and his brother Hyrum. In England, the Mormon editor and publisher of the Millennial Star ran a special supplement to the August 1844 issue in "mourning" in which he published practically all of the official correspondence between the Illinois State officials and the Mormons over the death of Joseph Smith. In this issue is published also a letter from Orson Hyde, dated New York, July 10, 1844, written to the members of the Mormon church in England announcing the death of Joseph Smith. The issue also contains an extract from the Liverpool Albion of August 5, 1844, which says: With regard to the Mormons, a correspondent of the New York Express, writing from Nauvoo, June 30, says, "The Mormons, greatly to their credit, submit to the loss of their leaders in silence. Not the slightest disturbance has occurred. The prophet and his brother were buried yesterday without parade and in secrecy." The London Record of August 3, 1844, carried an article on the "Death of the Mormon Prophet," by Henry Caswell, curate of Figheldean. To summarize the news coverage of this important event in Mormon history given by the press of the United States and Great Britain: we have the news "breaking" in Carthage, Illinois, June 27, 1844 at 5:16 Pm. It reached Nauvoo, Illinois, twenty-two miles away, that night by horseback. The news reached Fort Madison, Iowa, nine miles above Nauvoo on the Mississippi River early the next morning, but 91 was "not confirmed" until a direct messenger, who left Nauvoo at nine A. M., reached Fort Madison at three p. M. The editor probably set it in type that night and it came off the press in Fort Madison the next day, June 20th. St. Louis, Missouri, 190 miles down the Mississippi River, published the account two days later, on July 1st. SPRINGFIELD, Illinois, doubted the rumor one week after Joseph Smith's death. It took a two-horse carriage five days to make the trip from Nauvoo to Springfield in 1840 when Joseph Smith went there to stand trial. The news was known in New York City at least by July 10th, or just thirteen days after it happened at Carthage, Illinois. By August 3d, thirty-seven days after its occurrence, the London Record (England) had published its account, followed two days later by the Liverpool Albion. In the meantime, the editors in western United States had exchanged papers and as early as July 24, 1844, the Warsaw Signal was engaged in bitter debate with its exchange editors over the whole problem of Joseph Smith's death and its repercussions among Mormons and non-Mormons. Joseph Smith, in the eyes of the press of one hundred years ago, was both an enigma and a great man. Today, April 28, 1945, as I write the concluding sentence of this article, I sit by my radio and wait anxiously to see if the rumors which have flooded the air for the past three hours will really materialize in the surrender of Germany—nearly half way around the world, and if I will know it within a matter of minutes or hours. Even though the passing of a century has brought the transmission of news to a matter of the speed of light rather than the speed of a horse or canal boat, Joseph Smith still remains at once an enigma and one of the world's great men. In the words of Moroni, another American prophet, his name "'should be had for good and evil among all nations, kindreds, and tongues, or that it should be both good and evil spoken of among all people." Note: TO MARIE (Who lives in the "Flexible House" Madeline Haws The light in the Flexible House burns dim Where the windows were all aglow; The big armchair stands desolate Across from the radio. His chair at the table, long or short, Where many eat or few, Is undisturbed. He is not there To be the host to you. Loneliness—yes—in the Flexible House Though it stretch with all its might! For he isn't there, and everyone knows That he won't be back tonight. But the Flexible House can never be Empty or dark or cold, So long as half of its heart remains, There'll be warmth and love untold! The poem "The Flexible House" by Adeline J. Haws, written in honor of Brother and Sister Leonard Tanner of Salt Lake City, appeared in the Magazine for January 1945. Since that time Brother Tanner has passed away. Sister Marie Tanner, however, still opens wide the door and the "Flexible House" still offers its familiar hospitality. 92 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1946 What the Children Can Do for 1947 Dr. M. Lynn Bennion Superintendent, Salt Lake City Schools Prepared at the Request of the Church Beautification Committee. SCHOOL children of Salt Lake S City will make an intensive study of their home community in preparation for 1947. A workshop was held at the University of Utah, July 30 to August 4, 1945, to prepare material to use in this study. It is planned to have the students themselves write on various aspects of Utah history during the current school year. These materials will be evaluated and organized in a 1946 summer workshop. During the school year of 1946-1947, a significant book on Utah history will be edited ES —Salt Lake Tribune Photograph and published. This publication will be a valuable contribution to our literature on the pioneers and will greatly enhance the understanding and appreciation of our children for their great heritage. A brief, suggested outline for this study has been provided by supervisors and teachers as follows: A Brief History of the Community 1. When and how was the community settled, and why was it settled? 2. Who were the prominent people PIONEER PLOWING IN AN ARID VALLEY Page 93 94  —Photograph by T. J. Howells, M. D. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1946 WHERE THE DESERT HAS BLOSSOMED connected with the early history of the community? _ What made these people prominent? Has there been a change in the way people live—industries, farming, and so on? Did any other important historical events occur in addition to those earliest ones listed? Was your region occupied by Indians before the arrival of white men? If so, by what. Tribe? Did they have a village in this region? What was it named? What are the names of the chiefs of whom you have read or heard? Did you ever see a member of this tribe? Are there any remaining evidences of Indian occupation such as: old trails, implements, mounds, graves, planting fields, shell heaps, markings on rocks, and the like? Who was the first white man to reach your community? Why did he come? What was he doing? How and along what route did he come? Can you find stories about the early people who came to this community? What is the story of the first permanent settlement? What was the life of these pioneers, their occupations, methods of making a living, grinding grains, marketing crops, defending themselves from the Indians, hardships, and amusements? 8. What can you find out about the founding of schools, churches, and other social, political, commercial, and industrial institutions of this early community? Are there any of these pioneer people alive today? G. If your community is in a region that at some time in its history has been held by some other country, how and why did it become a colony of that nation? How and why did it fall into American hands? 10. Has your community ever suffered great disasters, by storm, flood, earthquake, or fire? 11. Has your community any historic sites, famous buildings, monuments, parks, drives, or other attractions for visitors? The outline also suggests a thorough study of the community today, covering the following points: MY OLD GREEN CHEST Grace M. Candland Today I emptied out An old green chest of mine, And came across, to my surprise, A soiled and faded valentine. I read the loving words thereon With somewhat of a start, For there in his handwriting "T love you, dear, with all my heart." I wonder as I look at him If that was just a pretty caper, It seems his keenest interest Is in the evening paper. WHAT THE CHILDREN CAN DO FOR 1947 Topography and natural resources Population Health and safety Home and family life Recreation B95) Government Organized group life Occupations Transportation and communication facilities. Page 96 GRANDMA Elsie C. Carroll "Grandma! I would not let him use that name, If I were you," she said. "It makes me think of wrinkled cheeks, Of nodding gray old head. "It makes me think of tottering feet And eyes that time has dimmed; Of wandering mind and quavering voice, And lips that pain has thinned. "It makes me think of gnarled brown hands, And shoulders bent by years;  It makes me think of winter, death; It chills me with vague fears." I smiled and answered her, "I see That life has not been fair. She took too early from you, dear, A gift I hold most rare. "Grandma! That name to me brings memories Of joys beyond mere words. It's sweet like dawn, and spring, And flowers, and brooks, and birds. "Her feet came swiftly to my need. Her cheek was soft as down; Her eyes were pools of love for me; Her hair a silver crown. "Her hands held strength and gentleness; Her kiss could soothe all pain; The refuge of her arms and lap Gave peace I'd like again. "It makes you think of winter, death; And fills you with strange fears. To me, the name of Grandma makes A blessing of the years. "And when J hear him calling it, I'm thrilled with ecstasy. 'O make me, Father,' is my prayer, "The Grandma I should be.' " Sixty Years Ago Excerpts from the Woman's Exponent, February 1, and February 15, 1886 "For THE RIGHTS OF THE WOMEN OF ZION AND THE RIGHTS OF THE Women OF ALL NATIONS"' MIDNIGHT MUSINGS The fire burns low upon the hearth, The household sleeps, no cares intrude; Without hath darkness wrap'd the earth, Within I sit in solitude. But not alone, dear voices come Breathing soft cadence in my ear, Which through the day, all wearisome, With rush of work, I could not hear. —Lula EXPERIENCES: To some the experiences they pass through are like beads upon a string, and when the thread of life is cut, they simply roll away out of sight and out of mind. A new business here, a new friendship there; here a lucky accident, there a disastrous failure; here a birth and a rejoicing, there a death and mourning; and, as the mind recalls them, it finds no special meaning attached to them and no connection between them, except that of time or place. Another person comes out of each one fuller, stronger, wiser than before He is accumulating experience, not simply to count it over and recall its pleasure or its pain, but to develop out of it all power and wisdom by which his own life and the lives of all who approach him may be improved.—Editorial. DAVIS STAKE: The Relief Society quarterly conference of Davis Stake was held at Farmington, January 8, 1886, Sister Mary Clark presiding. Presidents William R. Smith and Anson Call met with us for the purpose of re-organizing, or rather appointing a president, as our former president had been called to labor in another capacity. Sister Susan Grant was chosen****Sister President Kimball and Doctor Ellen B. Ferguson were present. They gave us some very good instructions, and urged the mothers to look well to their children; be careful to implant the principles of truth and virtue in their young minds. We had a splendid meeting, a good spirit prevailed, and all seemed to manifest a lively interest in the cause—Rhoda Hinman, Secretary.  A HAPPY HOME: "Six things," says Hamilton, 'are requisite to create a happy home. Integrity must be the architect, and tenderness the upholsterer. It must be warmed by affection and lighted with cheerfulness, and industry must be the ventilator, renewing the atmosphere, and bringing in fresh salubrity day by day; while over all as a protecting glory and canopy, nothing will suffice except the blessing of God."—Selected. Page 97 Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon WE wonder how Japanese women will react to suffrage, demanded for them by General MacArthur. It comes to them with stunning suddenness, whereas American women struggled for it seventy-two years, from 1848 to 1920. Since 1920 our country has sent only thirty-nine women to our national Congress, and the nine present incumbents are all in the Lower House. Yet what means of attaining a better world could be more sure than for determined women, the world over, to use their opportunities to mold public opinion, to vote, and to hold office? THE British Red Cross and other agencies packed 1,672,579 food packages per week for prisoners of war who were natives of India. Ig was largely through the efforts of the women of America that Mount Veron, home of George Washington, was purchased and preserved as a national shrine. LADY SIMON of England says Britain's government has only now accepted as its goal what has been part of the American way of life for neatly one hundred years, equal educational opportunities for all children irrespective of the financial status of their parents. THE international world of art has lost one of its great figures in Page 98 the death of La Argentinita, Spanish dancer born in the Argentine. Graciousness, a supreme dignity, and womanliness characterized her personality both off and on the stage. She was unselfish and often worked hard to help struggling fellow artists. MBS. MARIA KRISTINA PERSSON of Logan, Utah, has reached the age of ninety-nine years and may be the oldest Relief Society teacher in the Church, both in age and in length of service—more than sixty years. For fifty-three years she has been a worker in the Logan temple. FIFTY-SIX women doctors, graduated from Western Reserve medical school, have given their communities a total of six hundred and eleven years of medical service, besides engaging in many useful civic enterprises. Thirty-three of them have been homemakers, but unfortunately only twenty-nine children have been born to this group of such high intelligence. AMONG the 27,000,000 people of Indo-China, the women of the Annamese tribe are noted for their grace and beauty, and for their skill in the fine arts, music and poetry. The Mois are more savage. Some of their tribes are ruled by women. Women dispose of property, buy at markets, and make marriage proposals. Editorial Vol 33 February 1946 NO 2 “Study My Word” Study my word which hath gone forth among the children of men, and also study my word which shall come forth among the children of men, or that which is now translating, yea, until you have obtained all which I shall grant unto the children of  men in this generation, and then shall all things be added thereto (Doc. and Gov. 11:22) . EVERY Latter-day Saint should study the word of the Lord and copies of the standard works of the Church should be in every home. As a child grows to maturity, he should be given, on appropriate occasions, copies of the standard works to form a nucleus for his own library. When the oldest child in a family reaches the age of understanding, simple stories from the scriptures may be told him, showing an appropriate picture to illustrate the story and help fix it in his mind. Then, as the oldest child grows in years, a convenient time each day may be chosen when the entire family can gather as a group and hear portions of the scriptures read. Different methods may be used in order to ground the children in the doctrine of the Church. One mother tried the plan of reading to her children in a chrono-logical order with the Bible as a basis. For instance, after reading the account of Adam, as given in Genesis, then the fuller account, as told in the Pearl of Great Price, was read and commented upon. Following this, any verses which referred to Ad-am in the Doctrine and Covenants were studied, and then remarks which the Prophet Joseph Smith had made concerning Adam, were add-ed. By following such a procedure, as the reading from the Bible progressed, not only were the truths contained in the scriptures studied, but also the inter-relationship of the standard works was made clear, and the necessity for searching out all the light possible on a given subject was emphasized. Reading the scriptures together as a family draws the members more closely together and opens up vistas of understanding and inspiration which will prove a source of strength to them throughout life. To read of the dealings of God with his children in any dispensation is to bring comfort and enlargement to the soul. When trials come, there enters a calmness in one's thoughts on reading the words of the Lord to the Prophet Joseph Smith during his trials: My son, peace be unto thy soul, thine adversity and thine affliction shall be but a small moment; and then if thou endure it well, God shall exalt thee on high, thou shalt triumph over all thy foes (Doc. and Gov.121:7).Page 99 100 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE— FEBRUARY 1946 What comfort came to those who lost a loved one during this last conflict to read: And it shall come to pass that those that die in me shall not taste of death, for it shall be sweet unto them (Doc. and Cov. 42:46). Whatever the occasion, whether it be one of rejoicing or one of sorrow, the student of the scriptures can find encouragement and solace from reading particular passages which relate experiences of others similar to his own, and the words of the Lord to them under such circumstances. Mothers should realize that the responsibility of teaching their children the doctrines of the Church rests, not upon the Church auxiliaries, but upon the parents (see Doc. and Cov. 69). Early training from hearing the scriptures read and taking part in the reading, will bear fruit throughout the life of the child, and, at the same time, add enrichment and joy to be gained in no other way. Rays of living light will thus early enter the soul of the child and serve to guide his footsteps throughout mortality. M.C.S.  Congratulations to Sister Lyman on ter Birthday—February 7th THE General Board, on behalf of Relief Society members throughout the world, extends birthday greetings to Sister Amy Brown Lyman. Her years of service to the Church and her devoted efforts for the advancement and welfare of women everywhere are recalled with appreciation and pleasure. We take this opportunity to express our gratitude for Sister Lyman's years of service to the Relief Society, an organization which she understands thoroughly and loves greatly. We wish Sister Lyman many pleasant returns of the day and may she be blessed with health and happiness in the Sister Lyman's kindness, sympathy, and encouragement are especially remembered at this time. She has helped many women to realize that the teachings of the Church, if followed, will be a source of help and direction in solving the complex problems of a world facing the challenge of organizing for brotherhood and peace. Best wishes to you, Sister Lyman, and may our love and appreciation be a source of happiness to you. 100 coming years. FIFTY AND ONE IDEAS FOR YOU AND FOR YOUR HOME IT is true that the people in a home make the home, but there are other things needed, too. We must work to make and keep our homes more attractive, gayer, and happier. How can this be accomplished? By keeping them simple. Simplicity is beauty, simplicity is charm. If your home looks cluttered up, do you know why? It may be that there are too many things in it for which there is no need. New furniture, new materials, and many other things people have been waiting for will soon be in the stores. But before one starts to buy, one should take an inventory of what one has and then plan what is needed. In buying furniture, it is better to look for quality; a little good furniture is far better than much that is indifferent. A living room should be arranged so that the family and friends can talk easily together. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1946; —Salt Lake Tribune Photograph A WINDOW WITH GLASS SHELVES FOR FIGURINES, PLANTS AND VASES. Choose the most important piece of furniture in the room and then arrange the other pieces to be a part of this group. If the central piece is a couch with a table at each end, then place two chairs facing each other to form a group arrangement. If all the larger pieces of furniture seem to be too near the wall, try. Taking a long table or a desk and placing one end to the wall. Set a bench or a chair at the other end of the table or desk and a chair on each side. This makes a good conversation group. If possible, it is a very good idea to have the center of interest in front of a window or between two windows. The daylight brings out the beauty of the grouping, and at night the lamps make an inviting picture from the outside. A room will have better balance if everything in it is not the same height. This can be accomplished by using lamps, pictures or mirrors, anything that attracts the eye in an upward direction. Another decorative touch is the use of bell cords, or imitation ones, which may be hung from the ceiling on each side of an upright piano or any other wide piece of furniture. 'These may be made of needle-point or crewelwork. If there is a window in a room that is difficult to handle, put glass shelves across it, or make a scalloped wooden frame around it to give the 102 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1946 FIFTY AND ONE IDEAS appearance of a cupboard. Use these shelves for your beautiful old and authentic treasures—porcelain, old American glass, old copper, and Victorian colored glass, Every family Owns some of these charming objects which may have been hidden away in attics or trunks. Perhaps there are some beautiful plates in the collection. Hang them on the wall in tiers on each side of the mantel. MALL rooms need special attention. Furniture should be on the same scale. Brilliant tones and sharp contrasts give a sense of restlessness. Soft neutral tones, such as yellow, browns, cinnamon, and —Salt Lake Tribune Photograph 103 beige, enlarge a room. It is wise to have walls painted or papered in much the same scheme in all adjoining rooms so that they seem to be an extension of each other. Mirrors Placed flat against the wall give width, but be sure they are placed so that they reflect something beautiful. As a rule, people would rather not sit and face a mirror. Sir Joshua Reynolds, the painter, says: "A room hung with pictures is a room hung with thoughts." Painters have re-created life; out of the emotional intensity of their own perceptions they have done this that others, too, might share their ecstasy. Good pictures and good books in a home make a mansion. Public libraries have copies of the great masterpieces where you may go and see what you would like. A FIREPLACE GROUPING THAT ILLUSTRATES COMFORT AND CHARM —Salt Lake Tribune Photograph A GIRL'S BEDROOM, SHOWING EFFECTIVE USE OF RUFFLED SKIRTS ON DRESSING TABLE AND STOOL. The art stores have catalogues from which you may make a selection. Through these pictures, you can add color and atmosphere and give the family an appreciation of art. What could provide a more delightful touch to the decorative scheme in a girl's bedroom than the two pictures: "The Blue Boy" by Gainsborough and "Pinkie" by Lawrence. Color is that quality which develops temperament in a room, which separates a particular room from all others. Color can give you peace and quiet. Study the color charts that portray different shades of each hue. Color produces an effect of warmth or coolness. Red is the warmest and most stimulating color. If used to excess, it becomes irritating. Dark red, used with cream or ivory, is a pleasing combination. Light pink is warm, but it makes a very good background in any room. Yellow reflects more light than any other color; it is warm and cheerful. Use yellow in a north room; combine it with purple or blue Or green or gray. Blue is cool and restful. Light blue or blue-gray walls make a small room look larger. Use blue with ivory or cream, light shades of brown, gray, and green. Green is restful. 104 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1946 FIFTY AND ONE IDEAS Dark green is best for carpets, light- €r gray-green may be used for walls as it is a good background for more vivid colors. Color Schemes 1. Walls cream, carpets green, green curtains, a dash of red. Z. Walls gold, curtains apricot, chairs covered with plum and pink. 3. Walls Chinese yellow, carpet brown, red in the cushions. 4. Walls sage green, draperies red, couch red, oriental carpet with red predominating. 5. For a study: walls light cream, furniture Oregon pine, scarlet pillows and vase. 6. Music room: tones of beige, brown, and dull gold. Practical Decorative Touches Have you a piece of heirloom needlepoint that is getting worn? Mount it on a small table with a metal railing around the edge. Then place a glass over the top to protect the needle-point. Pieces of genuine tapestry may be used for the top of a piano bench. Add fringe or braid around the edge. Make a table lamp out of an old copper hanging lamp. Any metal art shop will help you design it. If you have an old clock cabinet that is large, remove the clock and have shelves 105 put in. Then paint it in a color suitable to the room. The old clock will make a charming cabinet for a girl to keep her treasures in. Sturdy old kitchen chairs make attractive slipper chairs. Pad the back and seat with some soft material. Make a taffeta slip cover with a gathered or pleated skirt. Then make a cushion with a ruffle around the edge and you will have something that girls will like. Make bedspreads out of the baby quilts. Use plain material to match the background of the quilt for the ruffle around the sides, top, and bottom. If you have a maple bedroom suite, make your own curtains out of unbleached muslin, then decorate them with tufting like your candlewick bedspreads. You can use the same design. A special type of needle and thread will be needed. Paint an old iron bed to match the color of the walls in the bedroom. Cover an old round table with a round piece of material that reaches to the floor all around. Sew fringe or braid on the edge. Use this table in a bedroom. Always keep something green growing on the mantel, on glass shelves, on book shelves, or in hanging baskets or pots in the window. This green may be English ivy, yams, chives, parsley, or any hot-house greenery. You may accomplish wonders around a home if you have a lot of imagination, plus artistic ability. The results will afford pleasant surprises. BS Ring Out the Old Estelle Webb Thomas THINKING things over on the T front steps that afternoon, Cora decided she had better hide Miss Johnson until Aunt Coralee's visit was over. But even as she mused, a car stopped in the street, the gate clicked and Aunt Coralee came up the walk. Cora experienced her usual sensations at sight of her. First, amazed admiration at so much beauty, then an unconscious bracing of herself for the familiar, "Ha, Speckles!" which was her aunt's inevitable greeting. Today, however, Aunt Coralee seemed different. She said soberly, "Hello, Cora!" but her quick eye took in Miss Johnson, whom Cora had hastily thrust behind her and she added, "Still playing with that disreputable old camel? We've simply got to get rid of that thing!" Disreputable was a new word, but Cora supposed it meant the same thing as hideous and disgraceful. She wondered, irritably, why Aunt Coralee had come again so soon. They had hardly got settled into their old comfortable routine since her last visit. And she wondered what there was about this visit that made Granny's eyes red when she read the letter. She could say she had been peeling onions if she wanted to, but Cora felt it an insult to her going-on-seven intelligence that she was supposed to be fooled so easily. Well, she would probably find out sometime. They had no idea how many things she found out that she was supposed not to know. Granny's habit of talking aloud to Page 106 herself in moments of excitement and the fact that Granddad had to be yelled at, both contributed to the sum total of her knowledge. And when people mentioned Little Pitchers in a significant tone she had learned to prick up her ears. It all helped to make life more interesting for a rather solitary little girl. She gathered Miss Johnson in her arms and gave her a fiercely protective kiss on her long cotton-flannel nose. Then she noticed that the young man coming up the walk with Aunt Coralee's two large suitcases was not Uncle Guy and also that he had a very unpleasant-looking little dog tucked under his arm. He smiled engagingly at Cora, but she was busy glaring at the dog, who glared as steadily back. It was a case of dislike at first sight and Cora mentally bestowed on him all the epithets with which Aunt Coralee used to designate Miss Johnson. She waited until Aunt Coralee had admitted the strange young man and then slipped silently around the corner to the little summerhouse at the end of the grape arbor. This spot, delightful in summer, was rather forlorn in the pale winter light, with dead leaves rustling on its walls and drifted onto its floor, but it fitted Cora's mood and provided a refuge for Miss Johnson during her period of unpopularity. She knew why Aunt Coralee disliked Miss Johnson, Cora thought morosely, huddled on a bench with that unlovely lady in her arms. It was because of Gloria. Gloria had been RING OUT THE OLD Aunt Coralee's gift last Christmas and a more gorgeous doll it would be hard to imagine. Aunt Coralee had said maybe Cora would be willing to throw away that frightful old camel. But, while worshipping her beauty, Cora had never been able to feel very familiar with Gloria. The doll's exquisite perfection made her conscious of her often mentioned freckles and straight dark hair and the plain little dresses which Granny made and which were somehow subtly different from the other little girls' clothes. So, though she played with Gloria dutifully when little friends came and glowed at their squeals of admiration, she placed her carefully in her box and turned with relief to Miss Johnson for companionship when they were gone. WHEN, almost three years before, a sad-faced camel had been among her Christmas gifts she had seized it with cries of joy, completely ignoring all the other toys, and shouting that it looked exactly like Miss Johnson, a well-loved and now departed kindergarten teacher. Miss Johnson it had been from that time forth. In vain Aunt Coralee coaxed and ridiculed and presented beautiful rivals, but Miss Johnson continued to hold first place in Cora's perverse little heart. A Though in some subtle way this visit of Aunt Coralee's was different, she was even worse than usual about changing things. For Aunt Coralee was never happy unless she was changing something. Granddad said it was a disease. He said that after she had moved his easy chair from the chimney where it had sat for fifteen years, to where he could get a better light from the window for his 107 reading, that he had come into the shadowy room and sat down plunk on the floor. He said tommy-rot, too. 'Tommy-rot was a good round word and Cora liked it, especially when Granddad said it, looking like a ruffled Santa Claus with his round, shining, red cheeks, his snapping blue eyes and his fringe of white hair standing irritably on end. He said tommy-rot several times when Aunt Coralee changed Granny's sewing table to a less conspicuous position beneath the book shelves, and Granny, blindly hunting her glasses, fell over it and almost broke her leg. Coralee took down the chaste muslin curtains from Granny's bedroom windows and put up pink taffeta, thereby causing Granny to feel slightly wicked and to steal out surreptitiously to see if they showed very plainly from the street. But all the changes and upheavals she could institute in her mother's home failed to use up Aunt Coralee's restless energy. It was not long before she was up to her ears in preparation for the program to be given in the church on Christmas Eve. Only a few years had passed since Coralee had been the prettiest and most popular girl in the village and the committee was flattered that, as the beautiful Mrs. Carter, she was still willing to help. Between times she worked at a costume for Cora to wear in the Christmas pageant. She was to be one of a group of angels and sing, "Ring Out the Old, Ring in the New," at the end of the program. "I wish I'd insisted on them making her one of the carol singers." Coralee complained to Mr. Dick, the young man with whom she had 108 | RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1946 arrived and who had "happened by and dropped in," several times. "I don't believe there are any freckle-nosed, straight-haired angels. What do you think, Speckles?" Mr. Dick laughed, and Cora squirmed. She wished Aunt Coralee wasn't always calling attention to her looks, some people might not notice. '"Where's Shep, Aunt Coralee?" she asked, hastily, to change the subject. "He was too large for a city apartment," Aunt Coralee answered, carelessly, holding the costume at arm's length to inspect it, "I got rid of him and got dear little Jiggs, instead." "Got rid of him! The big, friendly collie Uncle Guy loved so!" Cora eyed dear little Jiggs with secret dislike. He returned her regard from bilious, protuberant eyes. Cora heartily resented the fact that this sleek, overfed little autocrat was always underfoot, while poor, faithful Miss Johnson lurked in the dismantled summerhouse, with only stolen visits from her mistress to cheer her exile. GRANDDAD, it seemed, also cherished a secret dislike for Jiggs, but that night, having tripped over him and wrenched his rheumatic knee and been bitten sharply in the calf by the ill-natured and affronted dog, it was a secret no longer. And Cora, awake in her little bed. With the door open a crack so she could see the light, learned the meaning of Uncle Guy's mysterious absence, of Aunt Coralee's unseasonable visit and why Granny's eves were red.. "House is no place for a dog!" roared Granddad, limping to his chair, which he had dragged indignantly back to its original corner with the muttered remark that if he wanted to ruin his eyes he guessed he was old enough to be allowed the privilege. "But he's a house dog, Father," said Aunt Coralee, aprops of his comment on her pet, in the sweetly patient tone one uses to a dull-witted child. "A house dog is he?" repeated Granddad, very much ruffled and rubbing his injured knee. "I s'pose this Dick fellow is, too, isn't he? Seems to be underfoot a good deal of the time. What's he mean, hanging around a married woman, and what does Guy mean, letting him? Eh?" "Now, Father," Coralee's tone was still carefully patient, "You know, I wrote you and Mother before I came all about everything. I told you I'd decided to leave Guy." Cora, propped on her elbow listening, gasped. Did she mean leave dear Uncle Guy and never go back? Did it mean he would not even come for Christmas? And, awful thought, did it mean she could never have Miss Johnson in the house any more? "Why?" Granddad was demanding, flatly. "Now, Henry,' Granny cuss but Aunt Coralee cut in clearly, "He makes me unhappy, Father. He doesn't understand me." "Tommy-rot!"" Granddad could make tommy-rot sound threatening, Cora thought admiringly. "What is there to understand? I guess he understands you well enough. I guess he understands if he has hard luck and can't furnish you all the doodads you crave you'll RING OUT THE OLD come running back to Dad and Mother and they'll be fools enough to take you in and keep right on spoiling you!" Cora shivered ecstatically. My, Granddad was brave! He was talking right back to Aunt Coralee and using all those terrible words. "Now, Henry," Granny said with spirit, "Coralee knows she's always welcome in her own home and if she's spoiled, why I guess you—" "Sure, she's welcome and she knows it!" admitted Granddad, grudgingly, limping off to bed, "but when it comes to house dogs—human or canine—that's different!" HE weeks dragged by with their usual pre-Christmas deliberation, and now but one remained before the eventful day. Every day Cora and Aunt Coralee repaired to the church and with the other youthful villagers, went through the pageant which was becoming wearily familiar. More or less tunefully, Cora helped shout, "Ring Out the Old," and tried hopelessly to look as angelic as she felt was necessary. Between rehearsals, Aunt Coralee was going over the house from cellar to attic, though Granny always cleaned it in the fall within an inch of its life. Granny was already preparing rich and fragrant fruit cake. Cora, coming suddenly into the kitchen, heard her saying to herself. Vigorously beating batter in time to her words, "I don't like it a bit, not a bit, and I’ll tell her so, too! Why, the very idea, inviting that Mr. Dick to Christmas dinner and _ poor Guy—" She jumped guiltily when she heard Cora's step and looked relieved when she saw who it was. Cora, fortified with an apple and 109 a cookie, wandered out into the back yard. Aunt Coralee, in a baggy old sweater of Granddad's was burning trash in the still snowless garden. Jiggs, usually so moribund, was romping about, worrying something quite playfully. "Look, Speckles," called Aunt Coralee gayly, as she drew near, "See what Jiggs has! That horrid old camel you used to play with! I found it in the summerhouse. I'm glad you finally threw it away, Honey, Christmas is coming and you'll have a lot of clean, lovely new toys!" Cora, speechless with horror, now suddenly came to life and made a wild dive for the playful Jiggs. "No, no, Cora! Let him have it, please do!" cried Aunt Coralee, "I'll give you Jiggs, himself, when I go away, if you will!" Cora, choking with anger, threw herself bodily on Jiggs and rescued Miss Johnson. Emitting a wild yelp of anguish, Jiggs fled, but his vicious little teeth had torn a final three-cornered wound in Miss Johnson's side, through which her cotton innards protruded. "T don't want that f-frightful old dog!" sobbed Cora, clutching poor Miss Johnson close. "I-I wouldn't ha—have him for a million dollars, no, not even a_ thousand! Ch-changed sweet old Shep for that —that—hideous thing!" She had heard an awful word at school and saved it to use on Jiggs sometime, but in her excitement could not remember it, but some mental dam seemed to have broken and she rushed on, quite as much to her own surprise and horror as to Aunt Coralee's, 'Always ch-changing something! Granddad says its a disease you got! Al-ways trying to change my darling Miss Johnson for some 1—lovely toy! I'm not going to sing your old song so there! I'm not going to ring out the old things—I like my old things! And now—" A fresh burst of sobs shook the slender little body and almost cut off the violent rush of words, "Now you're going to get rid of my dear good uncle Guy and change to that—that disrepabul old Dick!" BLINDLY she turned and started to stumble away, but as another awful possibility struck her, she turned back and, leveling a shaking finger at her aunt shouted, "And if you ever dare to try and change Granddad and Granny for somebody you—you think is nicer, you—you just watch out—I—I'll get the law on you!" Aunt Coralee, silently and with a strangely stricken face, watched the sobbing little figure until the house had swallowed it. Then, absently, she raked the embers together and in the same stricken silence, walked slowly through the back garden gate and down the river path, a favorite walk of her girlhood—in whose leafy lane she and Guy had spent many a magic hour. But today she did not enjoy it, although it was lovely even in winter and the pleasant tang in the air brought the bright color into her cheeks. She had been accustomed to think of her visits to the old home as gleams of sunshine in the drab existence of her parents and little niece. It was disturbing to learn that they were something to be lived through with what patience they could muster. When she turned homeward in the early winter dusk her meditations had resulted in the decision to wait until after the holidays before precipitating a personal crisis. She would telephone Guy to come as usual and Dick that his invitation was off. Smiling at the pleasant picture of herself thus moving her human pawns about at will, she ran briskly up the walk. "Where's Cora?" demanded Granny peering down the dim path behind her, "Didn't she go with you?" It was a long way to Centerville, it seemed, much longer than Cora had imagined. But she had no intention of letting Uncle Guy spend Christinas all alone, without even Shep for company. However, she had stopped hiding when she heard a car and wished with all her terrified little heart that one of the neighbors would happen along. Perhaps she could persuade them to take her on to Uncle Guy instead of back home, which meant only Aunt Coralee and the hateful Jiggs to her now. As the cold dusk began closing in around her, she even began praying in little gasping sobbing breaths that God would send someone, even—even Mr. Dick she pleaded desperately. Before it got any colder and darker. So she was not at all surprised when presently a large automobile stopped suddenly beside her and an amazed voice said, "Why, it's—yes it's Speckles!"' But if she was not surprised, Mr. Dick certainly was, and as soon as she had climbed, quite willingly, into the seat beside him, he demanded an explanation. "You better be going on toward Centerville while I tell it, cause I'm not going back home," said Cora, as firmly as Aunt Coralee herself might have done. But she started crying again when he insisted she must be taken back at once and so, through sobs and tears and puzzled questions from Mr. Dick the whole story finally came out. ''And so I just had to get Miss Johnson away from there, 'cause her life wasn't even safe/^ she finished, hugging that battered camel closer as she spoke, "but what made me maddest of all is Aunt Coralee wanting to trade off good old Uncle Guy for a (miraculously the bad word she had heard at school came back) for a lousy— she glanced up into Mr. Dick's startled face— "for you, just 'cause she's always changing some-thing! But maybe he's too big for a city apartment," she muttered, placatingly, as her head drooped drowsily against his shoulder. time." "Honey," said Aunt Coralee next evening, when Cora was trimming the Christmas tree entirely according
to h er own ideas of the artistic, without a single criticism or suggestion, "Maybe it was a disease. If it was, I think you've cured me. Anyway, I've decided not to ring out the
old, after all. You'll be glad to hear that I am not planning to change Uncle Guy for anyone at present." Here she and Uncle Guy exchanged a look that made Cora think of all the lovely stories of knights and ladies she had ever heard. And Aunt Coralee was certainly beautiful when she smiled like that and said, "I'll mend and clean Miss Johnson till she won't know herself and we'll give her the place of honor, right next to the angel, on the Christmas tree!" 110 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1946 RING OUT THE OLD TWILIGHT Ada N. Jones Twilight — faint blush of pink on blue mountain. The sun's golden fingers withdrawn from the sky; A deep settled hush on the murmuring fountain- A silence, a promise, a prayer, and a sigh.  CRUCIBLE (Benedict Amold and Nathan Hale) Beatrice K. Ekman Two there were of illustrious name, Two were baptized in the fire and flame Of freedom's cause. Where lay the blame? One crowned in honor, one smirched with shame. The scroll is written and rolled away. One loving his country with valor strong Bore the burden and brunt of the battle long; Where the struggle for freedom marches on His deeds live ever in word and song. The scroll is written and rolled away. One, under the smart of his wounded pride, Let mounting resentment become his guide, Until honor and duty were laid aside And the role of a traitor seemed justified. The scroll is written and rolled away. Only God can know when the sands are run How the crucible testing of these was done, What tempered the steel in the soul of one And what tarnished the soul of the man undone. The scroll is written and rolled away. Page 112 And For Eternity Olive Woolley Burt CHAPTER IX Synopsis Delsa Marriott, who has been jilted by Hugh Temple, has been trying to find a way to hide the truth from her friends. At first she showed an interest in Jeff Holden, widower Principal of the school, but the people of the town condemned her for being unfaithful to Hugh. Then she tried to fall in love with Alec Windsor, a visiting marine, but when Alec wants to marry her, Delsa is afraid because Alec thinks of marriage as a temporal contract, while to her it is binding for time and for eternity. Appalled at her failure, she decides to tell her friends the truth and re. Sign herself to the thought of a loveless life. URING the days that followed, Delsa constantly gave thanks for her job—for the children grown restless under the spring sunshine and demanding all her energy during the school hours; for the morning and afternoon chores at Jeff's house; for the spring tasks that absorbed her mother and her aunt Martha and the neighbors. She had at last found courage to tell Hugh's mother of Hugh's letter; had even let her read it. She had found, then, that she needn't have worried about the woman's reaction. In fact, Delsa had felt rather hurt when Hugh's mother had said, after her first uncomprehending exclamations, "Well, I'm glad that it's Hugh that has changed, Delsa. I had almost begun to think that you were going to throw him over for, say, Jeff Holden. I couldn't have borne that, Delsa—having Hugh thrown over while he was out fighting." Delsa thought bitterly, no, but she can stand this. She loves me, too, but she loves Hugh more. Hugh's her son and I'm just the girl he had planned to marry, And she found it not too difficult to tell the girls, They, too, were astounded at first, but they accepted that fact as they accepted so many others, so many facts that meant infinitely more to them, with an exclamation, a shrug, and then forgetfulness in the busy world they had all entered. When Delsa said doubtfully, "I suppose now I am ineligible for the War Widows Club," they laughed and winked at her. "You'll Probably be eligible again when Alec goes," they said, "so you might as well keep right in!" So that's settled, Delsa thought, and wondered just how much her happiness meant to anyone but herself and her immediate family. Then she shook her head at her bitterness, realizing that there were so many harassing events, so much personal worry and work in the world that each one had all he could do to keep going with his own troubles and had little emotional energy left for other people. Alec was a godsend, Delsa admitted. True to his promise, he refrained from "rushing" her, but he was constantly on hand to take her Page 113 to the picture show, to walk home with her from school, to go riding with her after school or on Saturdays. This helped immeasurably, for instead of pitying her because she had lost Hugh, the other girls envied her because she had a good-looking escort in days when escorts were more highly prized than ever before. Even Jeff wasn't too difficult. He'd come into her schoolroom after the children were dismissed on_ that Monday following her announcement, and had stood looking down at Delsa, his eyes remote, but his smile friendly. "I want to apologize, Delsa," he said quietly. "I acted like a fool yesterday. It is none of my business, of course, what you do. I guess I just let my own feelings get the better of me." "I was hurt that you would imply that I had so lightly tossed away Hugh," Delsa answered him, just as seriously, just as honestly. "You'll forgive me, Delsa?" his voice was urgent. DELSA nodded, and went on in "~ spite of herself, "And I'll tell you this, Jeff. Hugh had asked me to release him from his promise long before I ever saw Alec Windsor." Jeff held up his hand as if to stop her. "It's none of my business, Delsa. That's the main thing for me to remember," he couldn't keep the bitterness out of his voice. "If that's the main thing, Jeff, there is no need for us to discuss it. I had a notion that my happiness—" "Oh, Delsa, Delsa, let's not quarrel. We are adult enough, I hope, to refrain from hurting each other just for the fun of it." Delsa looked at him. If that was the way he wanted it, it was all right with her. She was hurt, though, because she had always thought of Jeff as a tower of strength, one to whom she could speak freely. But if he wanted to hide behind this hurt front and let her work out her problem alone, there was nothing she could do about it. She said, "All right, Jeff. Everything is back to normal." She went to the board and began erasing the lesson written there, and Jeff turned silently and left the room. When school was out, Delsa hadn't known whether to go over to Jeff's to take care of the children or not. She hesitated just a moment, and then, seeing Jeff busy with his older boys cleaning up the school yard, she thought, why make the babies suffer for our troubles? I'll just dash over and see what Mrs. Reeder is doing, give the children the once over, and be away before ever Jeff gets home. When she went into the house she was glad of her decision. Davy had upset a saucepan of boiling water, and while only a little of it had splashed over him, the scalded spots were dreadfully painful. He was sobbing distractedly, his face buried in the pillow. Mrs. Reeder had put some soda and water on the spots and wrapped a cloth over them, but it was clumsily done. Delsa gathered the little boy close, kissing his tousled head. "There, there, Davy, don't cry. Aunt Delsa will fix it up. Aunt Delsa knows where Daddy has some 114 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1946 AND FOR ETERNITY magic salve—it'll stop the hurt in no time. Come and see." She carried him into the bathroom, opened the medicine chest and let him look in it with her. She held up the bottles and tubes, attracting his attention until she found the tube of tannic acid jelly. It was a bright green tube, and she held it up crying, "See, Davy, here it is. This is what Daddy uses." Davy looked at her, only slightly curious, but his sobs had ceased. She took some sterilized gauze and said, "Do you want to squeeze the salve out, Davy? It is kind of hard for Aunt Delsa. You have to be real strong to make it come out." Davy accepted the challenge and squeezed the end of the tube. When the salve came squirting out onto the gauze he smiled. Delsa made a neat, expert bandage on the chubby little hand, and Davy watched her, half forgetting his pain in the excitement of being done up so prettily. "Now let's go show Trudy our bandage, just like a big soldier's," Delsa said, and led Davy in to show his sister. Mrs. Reeder said crossly, "He ought to be spanked, that's what! He's always into something. I told him to get away from the stove—" Delsa understood that the woman was trying to salve her own conscience for her negligence, and she answered coldly, "He's been punished for his misdeed, but what punishment should be given to the one who was in charge of him?" "Don't you threaten me, Miss Delsa!" the woman cried angrily. "I don't have to work here! I don't have to stay here day after day, chasing that kid from morning till night 115 for a measly few dollars a week. I can get a war job, I can, and make big money and take no one's sass!" Delsa was frightened. What if Mrs. Reeder did take a notion to leave? What would Jeff do then? She went over to the woman, smiling placatingly in spite of her anger. "Now, now," she said quietly, "we're all upset. It hurts us almost as much as it does the child to see him suffer. Sit down, Mrs. Reeder, and let me make you some toast and cocoa. The children are trying, I know." So now, Delsa thought, as she waited on the woman, I have Mrs. Reeder to take care of, as well as the babies. Oh, why did I ever get tangled up in this anyway? But after that night, even though Jeff seldom spoke to her and never let down the bars of reserve he had put up, Delsa went to his house faithfully every night, and took care of the babies. JEFF acknowledged her kindness— he made it a point to thank her and to tell her how much it meant to the children. But aside from that and from the routine business of the school, they exchanged few words. Jeff was never in the house while Delsa was there, and that made it easier for her. If Jeff watched her coming and going—if he noted how rapidly she finished her self-appointed chores, he probably laid it to her haste to get through and to meet Alec Windsor, who was usually waiting to walk home with her. There was a funny old gnarled tree. About a block from Jeff's gate. Alec would sit there on the rough seat made by the roots that had pushed up from the ground, and wait for Delsa. When she came even with him he would leap up, take her arm, and walk along beside her, talking nonsense, making her laugh, making her forget the worries of the day. 'And if she was particularly lonely or depressed or weary he would be especially gentle with her, sensing her mood, matching his own temperament to hers. It was a sweet knack, Delsa thought gratefully, Hugh had had it, too. She caught herself remembering Hugh when she was with Alec, and in spite of the pleasure of being with him there was an ache where happiness had once glowed. One evening Alec said, "Delsa, darling, ten whole days of my leave have gone. Can you realize it? Ten whole days! There aren't many left." He stopped, waiting for Delsa to acknowledge the unspoken plea behind his words. She walked along silently, her eyes on the dusky roadway ahead. "I’ve done everything I could to make you love me," he went on wistfully, so much like a small, earnest boy that Delsa smiled in spite of herself. "And all you do is laugh!" he added disconsolately. "Alec, Alec! I don't laugh at you. I am too fond of you for that." "Fond!" he spit the word out. "Is that all? Fond!" Again the smile curved Delsa's lips. She couldn't make herself believe that Alec was in deadly earnest. She knew he had had letters from Helen, his faraway betrothed, and she couldn't picture him as one who could actually throw himself into a permanent alliance with one girl while still promised to another. He was too much like Hugh. He would write and ask for a release first. Had he done so? She said seriously, "Nellie Gibson tells me you write to a WAC, and that you get letters from one. You are not really in earnest with me, Alec. You don't love mean you love her, do you?" He was not angry, but he tried to sound so. "Doesn't that postmaster know it's illegal to read a person's mail?" he asked. "He has to read the address—or at least that's permitted, isn't it? And if he mentions it at dinner, say, why then Nellie knows it, and she feels obliged to let her teacher know how much she knows." Alec kicked at the dust of the sidewalk, like a small boy meditating. Then he said, "Look here, Delsa, you’re in a sort of jam, I know. I'm no more deaf than Nellie Gibson is, and I hear what's going on. I do love you, too," he added on a deeper note. "And I may never see Helen again." There was such a wistfulness in his words that Delsa laid her hand on his sleeve. "Listen, Alec," she said softly. "I know you love me—and I love you, too, really. But neither of us loves as we should love to stand up before God and the world and promise fidelity to each other through time—" "And eternity," Alec breathed softly. After a moment he went on, "Maybe you're right, Delsa. I don't know. I only know that when I look at you, when I hear your voice, I want to take you in my arms and 116 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1946 AND FOR ETERNITY hold you close. And when I can't look at you, when I can't hear your voice, I ache with longing for you." HER hand was still on his arm, and she stopped and turned toward him, lifting her face toward his. The early moon shone down through the branches of the trees where small buds were swelling with the urgency of life, and the Sweetness of springtime came to them from the hills and the fields. "I know, I know," she whispered. "Oh, believe me, Alec, I understand what you feel, I feel it, too—" is arms went about her and drew her toward him, but she did not yield in his embrace. She said, "It must be more than that longing, Alec. It must be more than that ache. That may be just loneliness, just the desire 'for love. If you really loved me there wouldn't be any Helen—anywhere at all—" "There won't be, if you'll marry me, Delsa. There won't be, ] Promise you." remembrance was enough to make him cling desperately to any semblance of stability that he could grasp. Oh, if he really loved me, she thought, I would be tempted to give him that feeling that there was some- 117 thing permanent in the world. But could I? Could I, unless my heart that sense of reality. Or did you take in your young eager hands only a shadow? Did you, who had been reared to look for more than this life promises, who had been taught to look far, » past the g world—did you find the treasure that would fill your heart and your days for ever and ever? Alec bent his head, but he did not try to kiss her. He laid his cheek against her hair. "Don't be troubled, Delsa darling whispered, troubled." He was silent for a long time and then he went on with a anyway, I'm sure it is teal And what more can we ask, Delsa, what more?" The spell was broken. Delsa drew away from him, took his arm and started walking slowly beside him. "You're asking a childish question Alec, and I won't answer it. Come, we must hurry, or we']| be late for Supper—and Mother Promised you biscuits, remember?" (To be concluded ) NOTES FROM THE FIELD Margaret C. Pickering, General Secretary-Treasurer Regulations governing the submittal of material for "Notes from the Field" appear in the Magazine for February 1944, page 104. MESSAGES FROM THE MISSIONS (Continued ) Danish Mission Ev=VA M. GREGERSEN, President of the Danish Mission Board, reports on the extensive activities of the Relief Societies in her country. "The Mission Board today is the same as the one President Garff set apart before he left Denmark almost six years ago. In spite of many difficulties we have been happy that we have succeeded in keeping together all these years and in doing what little we could to keep the Relief Society work up in the Danish Mission. We hope that the time is not so far away when we again can receive help and instructions from Zion. We need them badly. "However, we are happy to say that the Lord has blessed us wonderfully in our work in spite of everything. We have had board meetings in my home every month and, if necessary, oftener. Besides the more ordinary things, such as visiting the sick and needy, helping with funerals, giving financial aid when deemed necessary, and especially at Christmas time, when all our old members have received some little encouragement, giving at least one good yearly outing for our old members, etc., we have during the war taken up the work of helping our Page 118 starving brother-land, Norway. Together with the mission office, we have been giving money to this purpose and every month many nice packages with food have been sent to our brothers and sisters in Norway, who have been thankful beyond words. "Even if the food situation in Denmark has been better than in other European countries, we have also had our difficulties to fight, and the Mission Board has felt the necessity of sending instructions to all our Relief Societies about gathering extra food supplies for an emergency. And the different Relief Societies have responded wonderfully and have had in store many valuable things which ordinarily were very hard to get. We are very, very thankful to the Lord that peace came instead of invasion at the time when we dreaded it most, so our food supply was not needed as badly as it might have been, but the Relief Society was prepared to help in every way possible. Now, the things have either been sent to Norway or given to the saints, and some of them were sold to get money for other purposes. "On March 17, 1942, we had a great celebration all over the mission NOTES FROM THE FIELD 119 DANISH MISSION RELIEF SOCIETY OFFICERS Left to right: counselor; Valborg Johansen, First Counselor; Eva M. Gregersen, President. Fanny Jacobsen, Secretary-Treasurer; Johanne Ostrup, Second Coun- (Photograph submitted by Eva M. Gregersen) and the Mission Board was busy a long time ahead. I wish you could have seen our celebration here in Copenhagen. For once we got permission to have a banquet in the big hall, and a wonderful banquet it was. The program was excellent and the Mission Board was represented, too, of course. Sister Ostrup had written a lovely poem for the occasion, and I wrote a prologue with the title "You Are Needed, O Woman, on Earth.” I had likewise translated a suitable play for the occasion. All these things, of course, were sent out to the mission branches. We had reports from all branches of good socials and meetings. The Sunday night program had been sent out by the Mission Board and had been a great success. "Another occasion we remember with joy was the Centennial Memorial of the death of the Prophet Joseph Smith. On this occasion we had saints from all of Denmark gathered here in Copenhagen and President West gave us permission to have one day "for Relief Society work. We had a wonderful meeting in the big hall, where all the branches were represented. All the members of the Board talked to the sisters. Sister Valborg Johansen, my first counselor, talked on the subject 'Recreation in the Relief Society.' My second counselor, Sister Johanne Ostrup, talked on "What Can We Learn From Our Sisters in Relief Society in the U. S. A., Especially Concerning Ward Teacher Work? Sister Fanny Jacobsen, Secretary-treasurer, talked on "The Financial Side of Relief Society Work,' and I talked on the lesson work, and, besides, tried to answer all the questions the sisters asked, and they were many. We wish we could have many meetings of that kind. "At this meeting our new choir, the Singing Mothers, sang for us under the direction of Sister Valborg Johansen. The Board has taken a great interest in this work. Sister Ostrup has written about it in the Star and has done what she could to encourage it. "Of course, the lesson work has been a great problem, but we have tried to keep it going with old lessons. Sometimes we have borrowed material from other organizations, and for a long period I wrote some lessons in letter form, 'from heart to heart,' presenting practical and religious problems in question form, and sent them out once a month. The saints wrote and asked for more of the same kind. We always have the three kinds of lessons in the month: theology, literature, and social science. 'The fourth meeting is free to be spent as the sisters see fit, either work-meeting, testimony, or special programs. "In the whole of Denmark there are only 174 members on the books, but when one sees the yearly reports, I feel that we have reason to be thankful for the results. Visits to the sick amounted last year to 1024 and 119 families were helped. "But we are longing for help. We long for the Magazine and for the lessons and instructions. Please give our co-workers our love and greetings. Tell them we pray for them and will be very happy to hear from them. And when the time comes that we again can receive visits from the US. A., words cannot express how great our joy will be." British Mission EXCERPTS from a letter, dated July 31, 1945, from Sister Eda V. Longbone, secretary in the British Mission office, to Sister Maude F. Hanks, president of the Salt Lake Stake Relief Society: "It has been raining, now don't you go and say that it is always raining in England, most Americans do, you know. However, the sun does shine at times and today is one of those times. It really is lovely out. Ravenslea stands on the corner and faces the park so we get plenty of open space and can view lots of green trees, grass and some flowers. As I say, it is fine today; yesterday it was raining. The thing that has come to me is that our trees, etc. Look all the greener and fresher for the rain, wind and storm they have gone through. Today they are able to look up at the sun, seemingly smile, and are able to stretch out long arms upwards, strong, green, lovely and sweet scented. Why? Because yesterday in the storm they took it properly. They just dug their roots in farther, took in all the nourishment they could from the rain and just held on until all was over. We humans are not much like that, for when the storm comes, often we wilt down under it, we forget that it is for our good and advancement. Then, when the sun does shine again, we are not able to take full benefit from it, because we are not any stronger, nor sweeter nor fresher for the storms of yesterday. 120 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1946 "This past week-end has been a busy one for us at the mission home. We always take in what service boys we can, and this time we had four staying for the two days. The other day one of our boys (our boys are the finest the world over, you know) did one of the sweetest, and finest he did not do it with that object in mind. He did it because his heart is in the right place. His name is Millard Earl Gooch, a lieutenant in the Air Force. His job at the moment is, as I understand it, to take U. S. troops from various parts of Europe to England, on leave and on duty, so he gets here at times for a night.
"This lad is one of my lambs. Each of us missionaries has special boys that we sort of like and mother or sister particularly, and we call them our lambs. Earl Gooch is one of mine. He comes from Salford, Avizona.
"Apparently at times he is some where in Poland, and there has become acquainted with some of the Poles. When he came to us at first he told us something of these people, how nice they were, also how ragged up they were for clothes, even to needles and cotton for sewing. They were not members of the Church, he said, but that did not make any difference. He would get anything for them in the way of knitting yarn on ships. As you know, he could not, but we did get some colored silks for stitching, and one or two little knick-knacks like that. Then two of us gave him five coupons, I gave two, another gave two. We fixed him for bed clothing or two things, two pairs of stockings, the not fully fashioned are only one and one-half coupons each, and two colored head scarfs, one coupon each.
"When he returned to the office you would have thought he had been able to buy the wealth of the Indies he was so pleased. Then mission mother, Sister Florence Dunn, got to know of this little project of his and made him up a parcel of used clothing. She felt that the need was indeed justified.
"He is a very young, smart lieutenant, but he did not mind hugging his cumbersome parcel off with him when he went back to Poland. Now we have had two letters from two of the little girls he helped in Poland. I enclose one of them for you to see. I dare say, like me, you will not be able to read it. According to his letter ' (very beautiful clothing) girls are so happy, and were eager that he should send their letters right away, in case we thought they were ungrateful. Several have benefited by his sweet act of kind thoughtfulness, for he goes on to say 'You should see them. Polish, Russian, Dutch, and French all promenading with their felt slipshoes on their (very beautiful clothing).'
"President Brown has gone on the Continent to hold services with the boys, and according to reports, the one he held in Paris was a great success. He was before a thousand present for the three meetings of the trip, and their spirituality was enjoyed by all who were privileged to be present."
On the passing of Britain's oldest Church member, Sister Fola Longbone writes:
"Sister Johanna Porter, affectionately known as 'Granny Jo,' was at the home of her daughter, Ruth Amy Tomes, in Waterlooville, near Portsmouth, Hampshire, England, 17th July 1945, in her 101st year. She is survived by three children, twenty grandchildren, seventeen greatgrandchildren and two great-greatgrandchildren. "She was born at Cowes, Isle of Wight, England, 5th October 1844, and was baptized first into the Church at the age of fifteen years. Later she received baptism again, as many of her day did. "Granny Porter was an old Relief Society sister. In her early days she acted as a midwife, and as the scenes of her activities were situated far from any existent branch, she made it a practice to carry with her a bottle of consecrated oil, which, on rare but urgent occasions, she used with humble prayer on newly born infants. In each case, the use of it was efficacious. "Of later years, when her activities were curtailed by age, she would read from cover to cover The Relief Society Magazine, and give many of its wise teachings to the younger ones who liked to gather round her. Another book she loved was the Doctrine and Covenants. She would pour over it for hours, often with difficulty, for her sight grew weaker with her passing years. She used a magnifying glass and would pick out the words slowly and painstakingly with the aid of that. "Another thing Granny Porter used to recall with great satisfaction was that her mother, Mary Ann Tippett, one of the very early converts to the Church, used to spend hours tracting and preaching the newly restored gospel in her district, and at times her daughter accompanied her. "The funeral ceremony took place at her home. Duning it, her body lay peacefully among a host of floral tributes, sweet scented and colorful, from many relatives and friends who loved her for her gentle ways and kindly words. London's District President, George F. Poole, conducted the ceremony and later dedicated the grave. 'The speakers were Sister Eda V. Longbone, representing the mission office, and Elder Darwin Gubler of the American Army. "The last earthly resting place of this aged sister is in a little cemetery situated among the green fields near her home. From this place many miles of English countryside can be seen, cultivated fields, and away in the distance lies the blue strip of sea, known as the English Channel. "The day she was carried there was, though windy, sweet and fresh. It seemed just the setting and right send-off for this small-built woman who had spent the greater part of her 100 34 years in active service to others. To the very last she was a faithful Latter-day Saint." Stuttgart Dist. (German Mission) MARIA R. SPEIDEL, President Stuttgart District Relief Society, German Mission, reports on the activities of the branches in her district, the first report to come from Germany since the beginning of the Wal: "May we, your sisters in the gospel from across the waters and from a war-torn world, greet you and wish 122 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1946 NOTES FROM THE FIELD upon you our Heavenly Father's choicest blessings. "The past five years have been difficult ones and we have become very humble. Our trust in the Lord and our testimony of his Church have been our pillar of strength. He has kept us mercifully, and although there was much to suffer, he has given to us a measure of his strength. Some of us have lost all our earthly Possessions, every tangible thing ever dear to us, and when we sav It is better to walk with God in the darkness than without him in the light, we know whereof we speak. "Since July 14, 1933, it has been my pleasure and responsibility to Preside over the Relief Societies in the Stuttgart District. We number five districts: Esslingen, Feuerbach, Goeppingen, Heilbronn, and Stuttgart. "I am thrilled to inform you that all during the war we were able to hold our meetings regularly every week. The sisters are working together in love and harmony. Hardships have brought about 'a closer understanding. "On September 30, 1945, we held our belated spring conference. The Relief Society had charge of the Saturday night meeting. We chose 'Women of the Bible' for the topic. "We are looking forward to the time when we shall be privileged once more with a representative from headquarters. We remember with fond emotions Sister Laura Salzner, Susan Kelly, and Evelyn Wood. "The coming winter will be a most difficult one. We are short of everything, but we want to feel that the trials of today are Preparing us for the blessings of tomorrow1. 23 MARIA R. SPEIDEL President, Stuttgart District Relief Society, German Mission.. With  joy we sing the songs of Zion and put our trust in the Lord. He maketh all things well." Southern States Mission From the Southern States Mission Relief Society comes the following report: "As a part of the cultural program of the Relief Society in the Southern States Mission, Sister Effie Meeks, Relief Society President, has been stressing the art of homemaking. Believing that the visual method is the most effective way to teach, Sister Meeks has been conducting demonstrations of different home arts at the district quarterly conferences. "These demonstrations have been carried out most successfully in most of the districts and have been found very satisfactory to the Relief Society members in developing within them a greater appreciation of culture and refinement in the home. "Sister Meeks has also suggested to the members that they acquire a hobby, a hobby that has a purpose other than the utilization of their leisure time. It is suggested that hobbies be selected which are related to the art of home building. "The following is a list of hobbies which have been suggested and are being used by members throughout the Mission: Shell Craft: We are not only making shell jewelry, but decorating perfume bottles, rosebud vases, tea bells, and many dishes with shell designs. In the South Carolina District artistic vases were made of olive bottles covered with the long pine needles, varnished and trimmed with the pine cones. They are very attractive and unique. Inexpensive glassware with an edge of pretty colored nail polish was also demonstrated. The products of home gardens, flowers and vegetables were displayed in the Mississippi District. Inspirational talks were given along with the demonstration as to how the children were taught to love the life of the seed, and to watch the development of the plant as it grows so that the children will learn to love gardening. Garden clubs are being organized out in some of the districts. The making of negro dolls was demonstrated in the Georgia District. Our sisters have been thrifty in buying mill-end materials from the cotton mills to make sheets, pillowcases, and quilts when they could not go to the stores and find these utilities. JACKSONVILLE BRANCH, SOUTHERN STATES MISSION Sister Clarice Skinner displaying her hobby. These attractive bedspreads and curtains were made from feed sacks which a less artistic and frugal woman might have used as dish towels. Through her hobby Sister Skinner has added much beauty to her home. 124 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1946 NOTES FROM THE FIELD 125 JACKSONVILLE BRANCH, SOUTHERN STATES MISSION Miss Clare DeLoach demonstrating the table appointments and correct arrangement of the silver for a formal dinner. She states: "Few opportunities to display one's tast that which is offered in arranging the table. E and individuality can be compared with Candlelight and flowers, the sparkling luster of glass, are attributes that assure the success of a dinner, be it formal or informal, for as the guests sit down to a charming table they readily respond in a festive mood to such a setting." "Sister Lena Johnson of Cowley, Wyoming, while here on her mission, traveled in several of the districts and taught in the Relief Society meetings the different arts that could be developed by using up scrap materials. She did a beautiful work. "Not only do our sisters learn the necessity of the different art crafts to beautify their homes, but they learn to love this part of the country in which they live by converting materials into articles which are characteristic of the Southland. They build up this part of God's vineyard, which is so attractive, and acquaint the rest of the world with it. "Through the development of these arts the most humble home may be a place of culture, refinement and beauty. Such a home will always be more attractive to the family, and the spirit of our Heavenly Father will abide in all good Latter-day Saint homes." Music Notes Dr. Florence J. Madsen Member Relief Society General Board "We can impart to others only that which we know." THE truthfulness of this statement comes  sooner or later to all of us who try to serve in the organizations of our Church. Just as soon as we are required to give from our meager store of knowledge, we realize that if the giving is to continue for long, we must find ways and means to replenish the storehouse. Fortunately, through the printed page, there have been preserved for us the finest thoughts and ideas of the greatest men and women throughout the ages. Whatever the chosen subject, there is printed material in abundance to cover any phase of that subject. Those who are called to take over the music of any of the auxiliaries of the Church should have access to some standard music textbooks. The Relief Society library of each ward should have in it three books on music which are at all times available to the chorister and to the accompanist. These books are: a music dictionary, a book on the fundamentals of music, and a book on conducting. The conductor and the accompanist should always work together in perfect harmony. Each should give and take to better the cause. All problems should be solved before new music is presented to the singers. Rhythm patterns should be rehearsed sufficiently so that they are not merely attached but are a very part of oneself. Foreign words indicating tempo or speed of the rhythm should be pronounced correctly and defined accurately. All expression marks or signs should be understood and adhered to. The aim should always be to understand all things that appear on the printed page of music and to impart this knowledge to the singing group. Those who are learning to conduct will find it most helpful to practice before a large mirror where they can see their motions and bodily posture. All conductors should use a baton as it is much easier to follow and understand than the varying gestures of the hand. The accompanists should be thoroughly familiar with all the. Accompaniments of songs to be rehearsed or sung. They should be able, at any time, to leave the accompaniment and give help to any part or parts that need help. This often requires that the accompanist read from three different staves simultaneously. This is rather a difficult thing to do and requires considerable practice. A great musician said: The conductor of a singing group may be quite ordinary, but with the help of a fine accompanist, can do extraordinary work, while, on the contrary, the fine conductor et a poor accompanist can accomplish little. MUSIC NOTES The singing group can progress to no greater heights than the leadership can take it. We never reach perfection, but we are ever on its trail. Joy comes with every new thing learned and shared with others, so we should avail ourselves of any opportunity to improve our talents. Note: The General Board recommends that each ward Relief Society purchase three of the five books listed below and keep them available for reference. It is suggested that these books be carefully preserved in order that they may be used from year to year, and that someone be held responsible for them. 127 Suggested References: CORNWALL, SPENCER, Fundamentals of Conducting....................$.50 Etson, Louis Charles, Pocket Music Dictionary Paper COVER..........$..50 Cloth cover .........-$1.75 GEHRKENS, Kart Witson, Essentials in Conducting................----$1.75 GEHRKENS, Kari Wison, The Fundamentals of Music............$1.50 SMITH, Leo, Musical Rudiments $1.00 These books are available at the Deseret Book Company, 44 East South Temple Street, Salt Lake City 1, Utah. A PRAYER Celia Van Cott Lord, we give thanks— The sword is sheathed; the bullets cease, Across the earth we hope for peace; White doves are loosed to fly Unmolested through the sky. Bring comfort, Lord, to those who yearn For loved ones who will not return, To crippled lads and those in pain— Teach them to live and laugh again. Cleanse hearts of hate, O Lord, with your giving, Touch eyes gone blind; teach us Christ's way of living. DEPARTMENT Theology Church History Lesson 16—The Building of Temples Continues Dr. H. Wayne Driggs For Tuesday May 7, 1946 Objective: To show that God provides for the fulfillment of all his purposes. AMONG the many glorious things that came to Joseph Smith on the night of September 21, 1823, were the words concerning the coming of Elijah. There in the celestial brightness of his humble room, this young American Prophet received wisdom from the heavenly messenger, Moroni. Joseph wrote of the event as follows: After telling me these things, he commenced quoting the prophecies of the Old Testament. He first quoted part of the third chapter of Malachi; and he quoted also the fourth or last chapter of the same prophecy, though with a little variation from the way it reads in our Bible. Instead of quoting the first verse as it reads in our books, he quoted it thus: For behold, the day cometh that shall bum as an oven, and all the proud, yea, all that do wickedly shall burn as stubble; for they that come shall burn them, saith the Lord of Hosts, that it shall leave them neither root nor branch. And again, he quoted the fifth verse thus: Behold, I will reveal unto you the Priesthood, by the hand of Elijah the prophet, before the coming of the great and dreadful day of the Lord. Page 128 He also quoted the next verse differently: And he shall plant in the hearts of the children the promises made to the fathers, and the hearts of the children shall turn to their fathers. If it were not so, the whole earth would be utterly wasted at his coming. In addition to these, he quoted the eleventh chapter of Isaiah, saying that it was about to be fulfilled. He quoted also the third chapter of Acts, twenty-second and twenty-third verses, precisely as they stand in our New Testament. He said that that prophet was Christ; but the day had not yet come when "they who would not hear his voice should be cut off from among the people," but soon would come. He also quoted the second chapter of Joel, from the twenty-eighth verse to the last. He also said that this was not yet fulfilled, but was soon to be. And he further stated that the fulness of the Gentiles was soon to come in. He quoted many other passages of scripture, and offered many explanations which cannot be mentioned here (Joseph Smith, 2:36-41). Today, some one hundred and twenty odd years since that evening in the early fall of 1823 on the Palmyra farm, a great Church with followers throughout the world, has LESSON DEPARTMENT come to know the mighty mission of Elijah and the explanations of his work which then the Prophet said could not be mentioned. It has been within the sacred temples of the Lord built by the Latter-day Saints within this century that much of the work of turning the hearts of the children to their fathers and the hearts of the fathers to their children has taken place. The Lord knew that giving men their free agency would, of necessity, bring waywardness and heartaches. But he was willing to suffer these things to be, since he also knew that the greatest joy comes through the personal struggle to conquer self and sin; that salvation is not something that comes suddenly, but rather it is that process of day-by-day living that teaches us the folly of our weaker ways and the blessings of our stronger moments. We must learn to know—through firsthand experience—why the Lord's way is always the right way. Then, when living has made this truth ours, we will love him the more dearly because of his infinite patience and understanding. There, too, will come the joy of seeing others dear to us rise in the majesty of self-control. The great mercy of our Heavenly Father provides in such a plan for life the encompassing of man's preexistent, mortal, and post-mortal years. Further, the Lord's plan provides that a place be established where links between the earth and the heavens may be bound, a place in the world where men as well as heavenly beings may find communion. Such a place is in the temples of the Most High. And since there are ordinances to be performed and endowments to be received here on 129 earth, the binding effect of which is to be realized both in this world and in the world to come, again the reason is apparent why such a place of meeting should be. With the coming of the dispensation of the fulness of times which the Prophet Joseph Smith was called to usher in, the Lord had said that the fulness of the Gentiles was at hand. Now he would bring about the fulfilment of prophecies pertaining to the last days and hasten the work of redemption of the faithful both for those upon the earth and those who had gone beyond. His word should be preached in the spirit world as well as to men here and, by means of his temples which should steadily be built until they would dot the earth, all the righteous could become his people. By the thousands, then, men and women in the flesh could become saviors on Mount Zion (Rev. 14:1) by helping to redeem their dead and bring about the great family of elect in Israel. So important was to be this work that the gathering of names of dear ones long since gone would become a major assignment of those living, that, by proxy, the steps not completed for entrance into the kingdom through the waters of baptism might be performed. The Christ was indeed to draw all men who would come unto his bosom. Greatly aware of the need for this work and the weight of responsibility which rested upon him, the Prophet Joseph Smith soon made clear to his gathering saints that they must sacrifice to obtain the blessings of heaven. And so within six years after the organization of the Church, there stood up- on the rich soil of Ohio the first house of the Lord in this dispensation erected by the saints at a cost of inestimable sacrifice. This simple but solid and stately temple was set upon a hill and lifted its spire above the majestic trees of Kirtland. Writes Edward W. Tullidge:... It was commenced in June, 1833, under immediate direction of the Almighty, through his servant, Joseph Smith, whom he called in his boyhood, like Samuel of old, to introduce the fulness of the everlasting gospel. At that time the saints were few in number, and most of them very poor; and had it not been for the assurance that God had spoken, and had commanded that a house should be built to his name, of which he not only revealed the form but also designated the dimensions, an attempt towards building that Temple, under the then existing circumstances, would have been, by all concerned, pronounced preposterous... Its dimensions are eighty by fifty-nine feet; the walls fifty feet high, and the tower one hundred and ten feet. The two main halls are fifty-five by sixty-five feet in the inner court. The building has four vestries in front and five rooms in the attic, which were devoted to literature and for meetings of the various quorums of the priesthood. There was a peculiarity in the arrangement of the inner court which made it more than ordinarily impressive—so much so that a sense of sacred awe seemed to test upon all who entered. Not only the Saints, but strangers also, manifested a high degree of reverential feeling. Four pulpits stood, one above another, in the center of the building, from north to south, both on the east and west ends.... In front of each of these two rows of pulpits was a sacrament table, for the administration of that sacred ordinance. In each comer of the court was an elevated pew for the singers—the choir being distributed into four compartments. In addition to the pulpit-curtains were others, intersecting at right angles, which divided the main ground-floor hall into four equal sections, giving to each one-half of one set of pulpits From the day the ground was broken for laying the foundation of the Temple, until its dedication on the 27th of March, 1836, the work was vigorously prosecuted. With very little capital except brain, bone, and sinew, combined with unwavering trust in God, men, women, and even children, worked with their might. While the brethren labored in their departments, the sisters were actively engaged in boarding and clothing workmen not otherwise provided for—all living as abstemiously as possible so that every cent might be appropriated to the grand object, while their energies were stimulated by the prospect of participating in the blessing of the house built by the direction of the Most High, and accepted by him. —TULLIDGE, E. W., Life of Joseph, the Prophet, pp. 187-189; See Lundwall, N. B., Temples of the Most High, pp. 7-11. One week following the dedication of the Kirtland Temple, it being the Sabbath, April 3, 1836, Joseph Smith the Prophet and Oliver Cowdery had retired to the pulpit, the veils being dropped. They bowed in solemn prayer. As they arose a marvelous vision was opened to both of them (See Doc. And Cov. 110). How glorious had been the fulfillment of the words of the Angel Moroni! Since this day of the coming of the Lord to his temple, the saints have gone on, at times under the most trying circumstances, to build other houses to the Lord, and within these have found the soul-enriching experiences promised those who would go about the work of salvation for their dead. As the work of the Lord progresses, the great temple to be erected in Missouri will one day be a reality, the corner stones of which were laid August 3, 1831. Pointing to that day and in preparation for it there have been built upon the earth the following temples erected by a people devoted to the King of heaven and the fulfillment of his excellent word. The Genealogical Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, which was established in 1894 as the Genealogical Society of Utah, to forward the vital program of the Church in the matter of temple work for the living and dead, was reincorporated for one hundred years on November 20, 1944, and its name changed as given above In addition to the many services offered to members of the Church in assisting them to do temple work for the living and dead, the Genealogical Society also maintains a library for g enealogical research which includes at the present time over 30,000 printed volumes and over 4,000 volumes of microfilm records (including over one million pages of original records from North Carolina and three-quarters of a million pages from Tennessee). It has the largest foreign section of any genealogical library in America and includes many unique collections among which is a copy of Boyd's Marriage Index containing the names of six million Persons who Married in England.. 130 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1946 LESSON DEPARTMENT  The only other copy of this Marriage Index is in London, England. Names of temples, dates of dedication, and by whom dedicated follow: Kirtland—March 27, 1836-  Prophet Joseph Smith. Nauvoo—May 1, 1846—Elders Orson Hyde and Wilford Woodruff. St. George—April 6, 1877— Daniel H. Wells. 131 Logan—May 17, 1884—President John Tayor Manti—May 21, 1888—Elder Lorenzo Snow. Salt Lake—April 6, 1893—Presjdent Wilford Woodruff. Hawaiian—November 27, 1919— President Heber J. Grant. Alberta—August 26, 1923—President Heber J. Grant. Arizona—October 23 President Heber J. Grant. Idaho Falls—September 23, 1945 —President George Albert Smith,  Suggestions for Active Reading and Discussion P of the Suggestive readings given below have the class carry on discussion as follows: first, answer the questions, second read the assigned part of the text to discover wherein we must "give heed unto his word.” 1. To understand more fully the things of God and the great blessings given in his temples one might well begin by learn. 46:10-33 with the notes following found in the Commentary 2. Within the temples of the Most High the saints are drawn closer to the world beyond. How can one here in life learn to know the true from the false spirit in Preparation for the finer things of the Lord? Read Doc. And Coy. 50. The supreme joys to be found in the temples of the Lord cannot truly be discussed, they are to be lived in sacred places. It is hoped, therefore, that this second series on Church history has in some way awakened a desire for those who have studied to make themselves worthy of the Lord's greatest blessings to be given in his holy temples. For pictures of Latter-day Saint temples see A Relief Society Century, page 64. Visiting Teachers' Messages Sources of Strength—Charity Lesson 8—Charity Never Faileth Dr. Lowell L. Bennion For Tuesday, May 7, 1946 Objective: To encourage people to put their trust in charity as the unfailing means of improving themselves and of influencing others for good. Charity never faileth: but whether there be prophecies, they shall fail; whether there be tongues, they shall cease; whether there be knowledge, it shall vanish away. For we know in part, and we prophecy in part. But when that which is perfect is come, then that which is in part shall be done away.... For now we see through a glass, darkly; but then face to face: now I know in part; but then shall I know even as also I am known. And now abideth faith, hope, charity, these three; but the greatest of these is charity (I Cor. 13:8 ff). Paul wrote these words to the Corinthian saints because they were disputing among themselves about the relative importance of certain spiritual gifts. Some saints were making a show of the gift of tongues —causing confusion, envy, and strife in their meetings. Paul did not intend to minimize the value of prophecy, the gift of tongues, and knowledge, but he knew that the things we know in part shall "be done away" with when a fulness of knowledge comes. He asked only that the Corinthian saints entertain a proper sense of values and cease having disputations concerning divine gifts. Love is at the heart of the gospel of Christ. The development of love and of the other great attributes of Deity in the lives of individuals and in society is the chief aim of the gospel. Prophecy, knowledge, and spiritual gifts inspired of Deity will always contribute towards this purpose. The passing of time has not changed the value of Paul's emphasis on charity or love. Love is still the first commandment and the end of our religious striving. Other things in life, not in harmony with love, shall pass away. Knowledge alone, for example, will not bring us peace; knowledge alone will not enable us to rear our children in paths of righteousness; prophecies, the gift of tongues, a theoretical knowledge of the gospel alone will not guarantee us a happy and successful life together in the Church or in the world. All of these things, to be of value, must be accompanied by the spirit of love. It is growth in love and good will based on gospel-living which will endure and never fail us. Paul's counsel to the Corinthians applies with equal force to us today. Let a husband and wife make decisions with charity as well as with knowledge, for their decisions will pass but their love will endure. Let a mother counsel her children with love as well as with knowledge, for a proud youth may not heed his mother's words but he will not forget her 132 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1946 love. Let the worker in the Church Or a tinkling cymbal," Let us put labor with the love of Christ lest his our faith in love and never neglect Words "become as Sounding brass or a tinkling cymbal.” Let us put our faith in love and never neglect it. Literature The Bible in Our Literature Lesson 8-Bible Influence as Revealed in Children’s Literature D. Howard R. Driggs For Tuesday, May 21, 1946 LITERATURE for children had its beginning in folk lore. Out of the wealth of stories created in the long-ago for fireside entertainment and to impress life lessons have come many stories of appeal for both young and old. Youth enjoys the story; age gets more of the inner meaning from it. In this time tested literature is a rich heritage for all.
Among these treasures are Aesop's fables—a collection of little tales, mainly of Greek origin, each carrying its moral. Legend has woven some interesting stories about Aesop. He is said to have been a pedagogue or teacher, full of quaint wit and wisdom. Certain it is that the tales credited to him preserve in living form some helpful maxims; for example:
THE BOY WHO CRIED WOLF
A young shepherd tending his flock on a hillside not far from a village, decided to have some sport; he suddenly cried, "Wolf, Wolf!"
Immediately there was a scurrying of the men from town up the hills to help tend his sheep. But when they came puffing up to where he was, they found him laughing at his trick.
Next day he tried the same foolish trick. Again the men came by his help, and again they were laughed at by the silly shepherd. On the third day, a wolf really did come. The boy shouted and shouted but no one walked up his help. Some of the flock were killed before the men, in the tow. A liar is not believed even when he does tell the truth.
Action centered in a simple but interesting plot, with appropriate conversation to add life, makes these fables of Aesop rare stories. Added to this they impress practical life lessons. Each class member will recall some of the good old fables that Aesop, or someone else, has bequeathed to us. These stories are not linked with the Bible, but they are in keeping with its helpful teachings.
Legends are another type of stories which not only charm but often teach. One the writer has carried in pleasant memory for years is that of Androcles and the Lion. It tells a tale of a Greek slave who was saved by a lion from whose wounded foot he had extracted a large, painful thorn.
 LESSON DEPARTMENT 133 Later, Androclus, captured by the Romans and trained as a gladiator, met the same lion in the arena. The beast bounded forward to attack, but stopped. It would not fight its friend. The Emperor, learning the reason, ordered both Androclus and the lion freed. This is just a legend—blending some historical facts with fancy— but it impresses the value of kindness to animals. The story of Damon and Pythias is another legend portraying loyal friendship. Many similar stories have been passed down to us. Like Aesop's fables, they were created before Christianity came to the Greeks, but many of them are in consonance with the Christian spirit. Another type of story created and preserved by the common folk is the fairy tale. To the Grimm Brothers —early day students of language and folklore—we are indebted for a wealth of these and other folk stories. Created for fireside entertainment and told and retold down the years, many of these old stories have not only rhythmic charm but everyday goodness. Each will recall a favorite among these tales. One that has literally gone round the world is Cinderella. A story basically like it has been found even among the Indians, but instead of dainty glass slippers, the little red heroine wore beautifully beaded moccasins; and the hero, of course, was a fine young chieftain. Folk think of the Cinderella story as purely fanciful. It is all that and far more. It is true to life and true to truth. At heart its lesson is: Real worth will one day come into its own. An interesting thing about these old folk tales is the spirit of democracy that they radiate. Cinderella, the faithful little kitchen maid, wins the prince. In Snow White and the Seven Dwarfs, recreated recently in a colorful photoplay by Walt Disney, we have the same intermingling of folk of high and low degree. Those characters possessing home virtues always win in the best of the fairy tales preserved by Jacob and Wilhelm Grimm. Mother Goose, of course, must not be forgotten. Where this quaint old creature came from, with her jingles and her interesting folk of every type, no one surely knows. Some like to think she was a real person, but that seems not true. Nursery thymes that are linked with the name are probably just creations of the common people, mainly, of old England. No matter what the source of nursery thymes, they have fascinated children through the years. They are the first literature of tiny tots; they charm grandparents, too, or others who take time to share their music and fun with the lively boys and girls. Wholesome humor and entertainment sparkle in the best of the Mother Goose rhymes. They hold a wealth of human nature, too. This heritage of time-tested literature provides not merely recreation, but a basis of understanding and appreciation for all literature. No finer examples of storytelling can be found than in the folk tales. Having been passed in oral form along the stream of time, they are like the water-tumbled stones, rounded and polished. To survive folk criticism, the story had to have appeal for common people. 134 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1946 LESSON DEPARTMENT This is why homely virtues win praise; and good triumphs over evil in these classic tales. They offer a standard measurement with which to judge more modern creations. Further, because they have been woven into many of the more recent stones for old and young through language, allusions, and characters, it becomes doubly necessary that children and grownups get closer to this literary heritage. Best of all the story treasures from long ago are those from the Bible. Children, under the guidance of their parents, should grow up with these. Beginning with the ones that deal with childhood and youth as "Abraham and Isaac," "Joseph and His Brothers," "The Boy Samuel," "David, the Young Shepherd," the "Story of the Christ Child," boys and girls can be led into a love of the Book of Books. No better practice than that of reading aloud in the home choice selections from the Bible can be recommended. This applies both from the viewpoint of implanting a love of gospel truth, and cultivating literary appreciation; for the Bible as we have it in the King James translation, is superb English literature. This may be plainly seen when its stories are properly voiced. Excellent books to help foster such appreciation are Hulbert's Story of the Bible for Young and Old and The Illustrated Bible Story Book by Seymour Loveland. Attractive 'other books portraying the Bible for young folk are also available. Of course the Bible itself is always a first reference. Literature created especially for children did not make its appearance to any great extent before about the middle of the nineteenth century. 135  What the little folk were given before that time was what might be called family literature—stories young and old might enjoy. One of the fireside favorites, along with Bible stories, was Pilgrim's Progress by John Bunyan. In her Little Women, Louisa M. Alcott pictures the joy she and her sisters had in following Christian, the hero of this allegory, in his soul-testing adventures on the way to the "Delectable Mountains." Robinson Crusoe, by Daniel Defoe, and Gulliver's Travels, by Jonathan Swift, are other adventure stories widely enjoyed round the hearth-sides of earlier days, except those of severely Puritan cast, where fiction was strictly ruled out. What these folk wanted for themselves and their children was the Bible. To train their young folk in the reading of the scriptures, they established their schools. An easy step to this end was provided in the New England Primer, which begins with this couplet: In Adam's fall We sinned all. School readers created later varied the strictly Biblical offerings somewhat, yet they kept a strongly religious tone. Even the famed McGuffey Readers, first published in 1879, keep close to the Bible in spirit and content. Love of God, love of nature, of home and friends, respect for parents, kindliness, charity, honesty and the other Christian virtues are all impressed with a choice selection of stories, poems, and other literature in the McGuffey Readers. "Rather old-fashioned," someone may remark, Yes, but in tribute to his great contribution to character building, American leaders —Henry Ford among them—not so long ago joined in honoring the memory of James McGuffey, creator of the pioneer texts which bear his name. With the rise of the common schools came an increase in literature designed especially for children. Stories and poems for the young began to appear. Authors turned their talents more towards the creation of literature of appeal for little folk, and for youth. A few of them won literary fame through such creations. Among the first thus to rise was Hans Christian Andersen, of Denmark. His delightful stories, for children of all ages, spread beyond his native land to become a treasured possession—the best of them— of children everywhere. Some of these tales are, like those of the Grimm Brothers, just old folk stories preserved with Andersen's artistry. Others are of his own creation. In The Ugly Duckling we are given, so many think, a life picture of the author himself, as he was transformed from a boyhood of poverty and struggle to the life of a graceful writer, like the swan, admired by all. It is a story beloved by children everywhere for its sweetness of spirit and happy outcome. Five Peas in a Pod is another of Andersen's created tales that tells of God's gift of a little flower to bring health and happiness to a humble home. In our own country and England, a number of talented writers have bequeathed to young folk a wealth of choice literature. Any list of these authors would not, of course, represent the favorites of all our youth or their parents. Tastes and reading opportunities vary. Certain authors, however, will have place in practically every well-chosen selection of stories for the young—and this because what they create is interesting, artistic, wholesome. Their books can be safely read round any home fireside. A story of how one family built up a choice library may be helpful here. Inspired by the mother who read choice literature aloud to her children for evening recreation, the boys and girls of this family decided to help her enrich the home library. Their plan was simple. Carefully selected books were to be given as birthday and Christmas presents for several years. With the help of teachers and the mother, the books were chosen. As a result of this concerted effort new volumes began to brighten the o]d bookcase. Among them were the following: Little Women and Old Fashioned Girl by Louisa May Alcott; The Prince and the Pauper and Tom Sawyer by Mark 'Twain, Bird's Christmas Carol, and Rebecca of Sunnybrook Farm by Kate Douglas Wiggin; Helen's Babies by John Habberton; Adventures in Friend: ship by David Grayson; Hoosier School Boy by Edward Eggleston; Birds, Bees and Other Studies in Nature, by John Burroughs; Wild Animals I Have Known by Emest Thompson Seton; Boy's Life of Lincoln, by Helen Nicolay; Story of My Life by Helen Keller, A Watcher in the Woods by Dallas Lore Sharp; Wonder Book and Tanglewood Tales by Nathaniel Hawthorne; Sketch Book by Washington Irving; The Crisis by Winston Churchill; Boy Life on the Prairie by Hamlin Garland; Captain Courageous and The Jungle Books by Rudyard Kipling; The Honorable Peter Stirling by Paul Ford; Hero 136 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1946 LESSON DEPARTMENT Tales from American History by Theodore Roosevelt and Henry Cabot Lodge. Added to these were poems by Riley, by Stevenson, by Eugene Field; and a collection of readings in prose and verse under the title of One Hundred Choice Selections. Best of all, the library was enjoyed; it was the center of the home. Not only the family, but many of the neighbors came informally to enjoy the sharing of its riches, especially when there was a story-sharing hour or an evening with the poets. Observe that there was a rich variety in the selection of books for that home library. All need a wholesome, varied diet for mind and spirit as well as for the body. One division that would seem to be lacking in this collection is books for little folk; but remember, it was boys and girls in their early adolescent years who helped build up the library here referred to. Had there been little ones among them, the list would doubtless have included Little Black Sambo by Helen Bannerman; Peter Rabbit by Beatrix Potter; Pinocchio by Collody; Heidi by Spyri; Mother Goose Village by Madge Bingham; Nursery Rhymes selected by Charles Welsh, or the richly illustrated Denslow's Mother Goose; and surely, if the choice were made now, Bambi by Felix Salton would not be forgotten. Neither would Little House in the Big Woods, and Little House on the Prairie, etc., by Laura Ingalls Wilder be omitted from the home library. Children's literature in these days is coming off the press in rapidly increasing quantity. "Of the making books," to quote scripture, "there is no end." Most of these created, 137 however, ate butterfly-like, showy, and just for a season. What ones will live and last only time can tell. Some are cleverly written; too few seem to possess classic qualities which give continuing joy. We need literature for entertainment, of course. It is only that which is read and reread, however, that brings recreation, uplift, wisdom. Our people should not only seek out choice literature for children from what has been and is being created; but also should encourage the creation by our own authors of children's literature of lasting quality. Great literature, we should remember, is lived before it is written. Out of the courageous living of the Latter-day Saints of more than a hundred years, materials of rarest quality have been made for great literature for young and old. The spirit of true authorship should be more assiduously cultivated. More attention should be given to studying and developing artistry of expression— not sophisticated style—but that which rings true, which is simple, concrete, Bible-inspired. Another vital need is more voicing of beautiful literature in our homes. 'There is no academy on earth," says Horace E. Scudder, "equal to a mother's reading to her child." Further, there is for all mothers the equivalent of a good many college courses in an earnest study of children's literature. 'There is joy also in cultivating a love of literature in children and guiding wisely their book companionship, in helping them tactfully to find for themselves the real gold. And now, may the writer pay loving tribute to his own mother. Whatever love and appreciation he has for literature has come primarily because she inspired it during his boyhood by voicing beautifully choice literature in the home. It is a precious memory. A reader sent me a short verse by Strickland Gillilan called "Wealth." I hope it impresses you as it did me. You may have tangible wealth untold, Caskets of jewels and coffers of gold. Richer than I, you never can be— I had a mother who read to me. Discussion and Activities 1, a—What is a story you have treasured from childhood? B—What Biblical qualities are revealed in the story? 2. A—Why is it of basic importance that both parents and children know the best of the fables, the legends, the fairy tales, the nursery rhymes? Give two good reasons. B—What choice selection of any of these tales or rhymes—in well-printed, artistically illustrated form—do you know? Bring, if you can, some such book to class. 3. A—What vital values are there in having parents and children share through oral reading round the fireside choice old tales, Bible stories, and good poetry? B—Why should this reading be done by both parents and children? 4. A—How can parents and children cooperate in building up a choice library in the home? B—What good help can teachers, librarians and booksellers give in this bringing of better books to children? C— Why should young folk themselves have a part in this gathering of choice literature for the whole family? 5. A—What classic stories have been used in photoplays within recent years? B—What, as you observed it, was the effect in restoring interest in such stories? 6. A—Write the name of two books— one of earlier creation, one of more modern production—which you would strongly recommend for children. B—What qualities are common to both of them? 7. A—What plan would you suggest for guiding boys and girls during adolescence in their book companionship? B—Name one wholesome love story you would be happy to have them read. 8. A—How can artistry in authorship be encouraged among our people? B—What stories or other literature already created out of the wealth of materials available would you recommend for youth? G. A—Why is wholesome literature for entertainment, for cultivating good humor essential? B—Why also should children be provided with a goodly supply of books that give recreation, that will be reread— that are Bible-inspired? Suggestions to Literature Class Leaders The following practical suggestions for teachers of the literature course have been sent to the General Board by the author of the 1945- 1946 literature lessons, Brother Howard R. Driggs. During his extensive traveling he has talked with many Relief Society class leaders. As a result of these conversations he has prepared the following suggestions: First: My advice to you teachers is—Study the Discussion Questions First. See whether, without reading the lesson, you can answer some of these questions in part or completely. Whether you can or not, you will be better prepared to _ study the lesson proper. You will also be better prepared to gather additional materials to enrich it. Second: Do not look too far afield for helpful materials. First of all, these lessons call for a better working knowledge of the Bible. They will serve as a review and give a new view of many of the well-known stories and other parts of that great book. Another thing: The lessons are so planned that most of the literature needed to make them come to life can be easily obtained from books in the home library, from literary texts that are being used by children in grades or in high school, and certainly, in the public library where such libraries are available. 138 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1946 LESSON DEPARTMENT I am making these suggestions because I feel that, first of all, teachers and class members are not appreciating the study questions and suggestions that follow the lessons. These have been worked out with great care and with the general membership of your organization in clear 139 view. They point the way towards fruitful activity that will help make the course alive and interesting. By considering these discussion questions and topics first, teachers will be helped to get away from the lecture method. One way to do this, even more effectively, is to let members of the class be assigned to lead in discussing the various questions. This will bring them to the class prepared for action. Social Science Modern Applications of Moral Principles Lesson 14—Morality and the Church Dr. Harold T. Christensen For Tuesday, May 28, 1946 Lesson link: Last month we applied principles of social ethics to the problem of economic inequality, racketeering, political corruption, and war. It was shown that justice is often violated in the modern world, and that real peace and happiness can never come until man learns how to be fair, equable, and charitable toward his fellowmen. Lesson aim: To examine religion as a moral force in life. Ig was Jesus who said, "Blessed are they which do hunger and thirst after righteousness: for they shall be filled" (Matthew 5:6); and Nephi makes this more clear (III Nephi 12:6). Religion supplies an urge to righteousness, a motive for morals. Just as the family is the seedbed of character so is the church the climate under which it can best develop. Religion views righteousness against the background of eternal life, and by helping people to see mote clearly and feel more deeply it supplies the spiritual lift so necessary in times of temptation and moral crisis. Soul Erosion There is considerable talk these days about the waste of natural resources, about the problem of soil erosion and the necessity for conservation. All of this is well and good. But an even more serious problem, and one that is receiving too little attention, is the problem of soul erosion and the importance of conservation in the field of human resources. What good is material wealth if it is used for dissipation and destruction? What good is technological advancement if it fails to bring peace and happiness to a world that is tired and sick from centuries of sin? Scientific learning and material progress are of little value if they leave man in misery; it is socially, spiritually, and morally that we lag. With war come many frightful things, including the publication of long lists of casualties. But there are other casualty lists, more serious even than these, which go unpublished. 'These are the lists of the countless numbers who become calloused to suffering and hardened to sin; of those who give up to temptation, who let down their standards, and who start downhill. It is better to lose a life than to lose a soul. Ethical progress, and the happiness it insures, depend much more upon the method of living than upon life alone; much more upon right than upon might; much more upon morals than upon money. There are only three possible approaches to truth: (1) the approach of the scientist through observation, investigation, and analysis; (2) the approach of the philosopher through meditation, speculation, and logic; and (3) the approach of the religionist through inspiration, revelation, and faith. Most of us rely somewhat upon all three of these sources, leaning more heavily upon one or the other according to individual taste. But some people exclude religion entirely, claiming that it is based upon weakness and naivety and that it leads to superstition rather than truth. These people are mistaken, as the testimony of millions has and will bear witness. The genuine religious experience goes much beyond the sensory experience of the scientist or the rational experience of the philosopher; and those who fail to reach it, fail to really live. But there are those who fail to reach the heights of religious expression; who are content to remain in the world of physical reality alone, skeptical of everything that may lie beyond. And this is one reason for man's inhumanity to man. There is too much materialism and too little spirituality among men today; too much worldliness and too little godliness; too many hedonists and too few moralists. On the Fringe of Righteousness Many who profess religious belief fail to demonstrate it in their conduct. With many, religion is a mere verbalism, or at best a mannerism, but certainly not a way of life. Sometimes institutional religion fails to mesh with society and to vitalize the lives of its people. Sometimes religion doesn't "carry-over." Sometimes people are content to remain on the fringe of righteousness, going through the motions but missing the spirit and the substance of the thing. A few of the ways in which this is done are listed below: (1) Escapism. This is sometimes spoken of as otherworldliness. 'The tendency is to run away from life and to find refuge in the hope of another and better world. This is all right if it isn't carried too far. The church should provide a haven for the oppressed and an incentive for eternal living, but where people become too obsessed and preoccupied with the afterlife they often fail to live properly as they go along. 'They overindulge in wishful thinking, living in a dream world, failing to be realistic. 140 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1946 LESSON DEPARTMENT (2) Opportunism. This is the tendency on the part of many to turn religion to their own temporal advantage, to use church membership as an opportunity for private profit. Salesmen will intentionally make contacts at church services that they hope to capitalize on later in the year; merchants will purposely build up good will in church so as to increase business; politicians will attend church and become affable in manner in order to get in the public eye and build up their vote-getting strength; et cetera. This might even be called "business religion," for those who practice it turn their worship into a mere business. (3) Conspicuous performance. Here we have the practice of religious activity for the sake of showing off. There are those who like to be socially conspicuous and are willing to use the church services for this purpose only, or mainly. The overplay on fine clothes, the arrogant snobbery so prevalent in some churches, the tendency on the part of a few to monopolize class discussions and to even seek church positions; all of these are examples. Conspicuous performance in church programs is immoral because it distorts true religion and makes of it a mere technique for social intercourse and selfish display. (4) Hypocrisy. The opportunists and the conspicuous performers are also hypocrites, but there are other varieties as well. Whenever preachments fail to square fundamentally with practice, or Sunday manners do not conform to week-day performances, the person is a hypocrite, for he seeks to deceive. 141 Piety alone is hypocrisy, for it leads to neither spirituality nor righteousness. Sometimes hypocrisy is caused by sinister motives, as indicated above, but often, too, it results from a simple desire for a social approval or a weakness in carrying out good intentions. (For a good scriptural passage on hypocrisy see Matt. 6:1-18.) (5) Sterile orthodoxy. We do not imply by this term that orthodoxy itself is wrong. As a matter of fact, those Latter-day Saints who are completely orthodox will accept the dynamic principle of creative expression and progression along with the idea of obedience to specific commandments. (See Doc. And Cov. 58:26-29. Refer also to the third Social Science lesson for last year, "The Road to Righteousness," and particularly to that section of it called "Obedience plus." ) It is when orthodoxy becomes sterile that it is wrong; when it is satisfied with mechanical conformity alone; when it stifles the divine spark in man, the creative urge, and makes of him a mere robot or puppet that can be pushed around. Sometimes people lose the real spirit and substance of religion by overstressing mechanical adherence to its forms alone. ("The letter killeth, but the spirit giveth life.'—II Corinthians 3:6.) (6) Fanaticism. This refers to a lack of balance in religious perspective; a tendency to be dogmatic, narrow, and oppressive. Religion to be valuable should harmonize with life. We can have tolerance without indifference; broadmindedness without shallow-mindedness; conviction without fanaticism—and we should have. There is little room in real religion for the narrow bickerings and the dogmatic assertions that sometimes find expression within the portals of the church. (7) Passivism. This is the practice of taking religion passively, of being a member of the church but not doing anything about it, of remaining inactive and indifferent. To be really effective religion must be of the active variety. There are sins of omission as well as commission, and to get the most out of the church one must participate in its programs. It will be a sad day for many when they look back and realize "what might have been." Church membership can and should mean much more to the individual than passive convenience or expediency. (8) Crisis religion. Closely related to passivism is the practice of turning to the church only when in trouble. Coming out of World War II is the statement that "There are no atheists in foxholes." It is good that men will usually turn to God when their backs are against the wall, so to speak, but it is unfortunate that they don't turn to him more at other times. A religion that is based primarily upon fear tends to motivate worship in times of crisis only, and because of this it fails to lift men to the greater joys that life has to offer. (g) Compartmentalism. Religion to be effective should be integrated with total life. But with many, unfortunately, it is kept as an undigested segment of life, good for Sunday but impractical for any wider application. Men too often compartmentalize their lives; pigeonhole their morals; segregate their principles and practices. Theology is too often divorced from practical present-day application. Spirituality is too often missed. Religion should be taught more in terms of life. The church should be a vital part of every community, willingly and actively engaged in the war against sin and injustice as they exist today. (10) Institutionalism. Sometimes we err by shifting too much attention from the individual to the church; by emphasizing the church for its own sake with little thought of the people it is to serve; by over standardizing worship and morals. When Jesus said "The sabbath was made for man, and not man for the sabbath" (Mark 2:27), he might just as well have said "The church was made for man and not man for the church." All institutions are made for man, and when they cease to serve him they end their usefulness. It is dangerous to promote any institution for its own sake. Religious programs should spring from the interests and the needs of the people more than they sometimes do; there is no virtue in putting over a program for its own sake. Records should be emphasized less and actual achievement more; there is no real value in a "one-hundred per cent" achievement record unless it stands for work well done. It is the people who are important, more than the institution, and the programs and measuring devices used should always be constructed with their welfare in mind. Moral Guides for Modern Saints Being a Latter-day Saint is a good guarantee of righteous living. The great moral principles of the ages are entirely compatible with the teachings of Mormonism, and the visions of truth and eternity which Mor- 142 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1946 LESSON DEPARTMENT monism supplies are enough to inspire man and call forth the best that is in him. But being 4 Latter-day Saint means more than just having your name on the books, more even than obeying blindly the letter of the law. It means honesty based upon truth and intelligence, industry based upon activity and effort, and justice based upon love and courage. Being a good Latter-day Saint means living righteously in every sense of the word. With a love for God and a desire for righteousness, modern saints should strive for the good life in all of its aspects, including the following: Eternal joy in place of sensual pleasure Struggle and growth rather than immediate comfort Responsible freedom rather than reckless license Honesty in place of expediency Truth instead of proof Right instead of might Principle rather than profit Vitality instead of conformity alone Courage in place of cowardice Conviction without intolerance Tolerance without indifference Love in place of hate Optimism instead of pessimism Faith instead of skepticism In concluding this lesson series, let us resolve to live above the petty and 143 the commonplace; to be large in vision and big in soul; to look up, and laugh, and love, and climb, and fight, and do. Let us resolve to devote all our might for the right. Problems for Thought and Action 1, Explain the phrase "soul erosion"; ""unpublished casualty lists." What are the three approaches that can be made to truth? Why is it a mistake to exclude any one of them? Show how a denial of religion can lead to both error and immorality. What is meant by the "fringe of righteousness'? Show how religion to some is a mere verbalism; a Sunday mannerism, Why must real religion be more than these? What is meant by "religious carry-over'? Discuss each of the ten religious perversions outlined in the lesson. Do you agree Or disagree with these points? Why or why not? Selected References Standard Works: Bible: Joshua 24:15; I Samuel 16:7; Proverbs 28:1; Matthew 5:6; 6:1-18; Mark 2:23-28; John 7:24; II Corinthians 3:2-6. Book of Mormon: II Nephi 1:23; 27:25; 28. Doc. And Cov. 58:26-29; 121:33-43- Books by L. D. S. Authors: TALMAGE, JAMES, The Vitality of Mormonism (Boston: Gorham Press, 1919), "Religion and Daily Life," pp. 193- 196; "The Glory of God Is Intelligence," pp. 276-285; "Ethics and Religion," pp. 324-330- BENNION, MILTON, Moral Teachings of the New Testament (Salt Lake City, Utah: Deseret Book Co., 1928), Part II, "The Moral Standards of the New Testament," Pp- 39-92: Se Page 144  STAR IN HER WINDOW Ruth H. Chadwick She looked beyond the silhouette of trees, Those blackened forms against a studded sky; A waning winter moon, now cupped, spilled seas Of fluorescent light to vivify The calm and tranquil pattern stars must live. They twinkled unperturbed, aloof, secure; Out there was peace, no man-made force to sieve The souls of men, and leave their goals obscure; No treachery, fomenting underneath, Would change their ways, now eons old and tried; They lighted up the infinite's great wreath Of circling firmament at eventide. For myriads can live in harmony, The stars would show the way that all might see. She looked beyond the view of naked eye, Around the globe's great seething holocaust; Hell's bursting fury, rockets in the sky, Rained death below; the red and deafening blast Of force was everywhere; decay and rot Attacked the brave and good with poisoned dart. And some of her was out there, too! The thought Set tingling echoes pounding in her heart. With hope and faith she touched the fringe that framed Her star; an earthly painted satellite, Devoid of warmth or glow, it mutely claimed To share the world's mad chaos, greed and spite. But this she knew, her star would prove its worth, And win the right to signal "Peace on earth." National BIBLES — KING JAMES VERSION There's one to meet almost every Bible need of young or old — student or teacher. Look for the National trade-mark before you buy. It identifies a book you can be proud to give — or to get. SINCE 1863... AT YOUR BOOKSTORE MUSIC SPECIALLY SUITABLE FOR RELIEF SOCIETY I LOVE A LITTLE COTTAGE.., 15 FLAG WITHOUT A STAIN (White) 5 BLESS THIS HOUSE. 15 GOD IS LOVE (Shelley) ALICE BLUE GOWN (Tiersney) 20 PEACE ILEAVE WITH YOU (Roberts) 10 Above numbers in octavo. Less 10% discount, plus postage. We specialize in L. D. S. Church music. Also carry large stock for schools and home use. Dealers in Steinway and Lester pianos, band and orchestra instruments, talking machines, records and musicians' supplies. DAYNES MUSIC CO. We solicit your patronage 47 So. Main St. Salt Lake City 1 price of only... 44 East South Temple Just Received... LATEST COMPLETELY REVISED EDITION BARTLETT'S FAMILIAR QUOTATIONS Edited by CHRISTOPHER MORLEY and LOUELLA D. EVERETT Priced regularly at $5 through many printings, this beautiful eleventh edition, with twice as many quotations as heretofore, is offered at the very special "Everyone who puts words on paper for others to read, everyone who speaks to an audience, even though it be an audience of three, needs 'Bartlett.' " ORDER YOUR COPY NOW! DESERET BOOK COMPANY "The Book Center of the Intermountain West" P, O. Box 958 mt he Salt Lake City 10 When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine U. S. POSTAGE 2c Paid SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH PERMIT No. 690 Are your children secure against the financial hazards of the future? Wise parents know that life insurance provides an income when earnings stop. BENEFFICIAL LI LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY HOME LIFE BUILDING SALT LAKE City 1. UTAH GEORGE ALBERT SMITH. PRESIDENT BAG A 2715 VOL. 33 NO 3 MARCH 1946 THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Monthly publication of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints RELIEF SOCIETY GENERAL BOARD Belle S. Spafford - - - - President Maryanne C. Sharp - - - First Counselor Gertrude R. Garti - - - Second Counselor Margaret C. Pickering - - Secretary-Treasurer Achsa E. Paxman Anna B. Hart Florence J. Madsen Blanche B. Stoddard Mary G. Judd Edith S. Elliott Ann P, Nibley Evon W. Peterson Luella N. Adams Priscilla L. Evans Leone G. Layton Leone O. Jacobs Velma N. Simonsen RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Editor - - - - - - - - - - Marianne C. Sharp Editorial Secretary - - - - - - - - Vesta P. Crawford General Manager - - - - - - - - - Belle S. Spafford Vol. 33 - MARCH 1946 No. 3 Contents SPECIAL FEATURES Relief Society and the Future 2... Leah D. Widtsoe 147 A Few of Our Gifted Utah Women. Artists—Part III Alice Merrill Horne 151 The First Easter—A Fantasy = a Evelyn Wooster Viner 156 An Open Door to Happiness 222... Wilford D. Lee 162 Our Parks and Playgrounds Fred Tedesco 166 The Clouded Window —— _. Caroline Eyring Miner 172 Lady-in-Waiting Marguerite J. Griffin 203 FICTION All Is Known—Third Prize Story Irva Pratt Andrus 157 Prelude to Spring........ Beatrice Rordame Parsons 173 Even the Frail Christie Lund Coles 186 The Best Little Shrub Mabel Harmer 192 And For Eternity—Chapter 10 (Conclusion)---- Olive Woolley Burt 198 GENERAL FEATURES 168 . Ramona W. Cannon 169 Editorials: ''A Thing of Beauty is a Joy Forever' Gertrude R. Garff 170 New Serial to Begin in April Notes From the Field: Messages From the Missions (Continued) General Work Meeting: Save Those Precious Scraps -SONG POETRY Renewal—Frontispiece —.......Alice Morrey Bailey 145 Her Staff a —— Hortense Spencer Andersen 150 The Difference 2... Cleo Gordon 155 Easter Lily ~...... Evel Fjelsted 161 Late Motherhood..........-.-..------------ Eva Willes Wangsgaard 165 Remember Love. Anna Prince Redd 171 Lesson. Katherine Fernelius Larsen 180 Lesson Roberta Bates 185 She Hangs the Linen on the Line Dott J. Sartori 196 Call of Spring -...-............. Beatrice K. Ekman 202 Springtime in the West: Lydia Hall 205 March Promises..Aileen M. Overfelt 215 New Things.....Watson Anderson 216 PUBLISHED MONTHLY BY THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY Editorial and Business Offices: 28 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City 1, Utah, Phone 3-2741. Ex. 243. Subscription Price: $1.00 a year; foreign, $1.00 a year; payable in advance. Single copy, 10ce. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving both old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the act of March 8, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts. MAGAZINE CIRCULATION, 74,000 Thrift Begins In The Garde 20. Vesta P. Crawford 181 Eleanor Welch Schow 196 THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE RENEWAL THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE VOL. 33, NO 3 MARCH 1946 Alice Morrey Bailey The cleaning wind of March is riding high And jubilant across the smoke-thinned town. Before his cutting breath, the ice flows down; Beneath him, mud-choked streams go swirling by. He sweeps exuberant clouds across the sky, While swelling earth appears in naked brown, And timidly puts forth her new green gown. And with the wind there comes the wild bird's cry. Swing wide your doors and windows, oh, my soul, Long closed against the stinging winter's blast; Look far in heaven's blue inverted bowl. Let light and laughter wash you clean at last, Remove all petty hurts and nurtured pain, And let eternal springtime in again. E The Cover: 'Dry Valley," the desert between Moab and Monticello, Utah. Photograph by Willard Luce. VOL. 33, NO. 3 MARCH 1946 "SINGLE ROSES" From a Water Color by Artemesia R. Romney Relief Society and the Future Leah D. Widtsoe FAMILY life is best lived when man and wife form a real partnership, each pulling an equal share of the load and sharing equally in responsibility. It would be unfair and results would be far from happy if the man received most of the advantages and possessed any great gift from which his life partner were excluded. This is especially the case if the exclusion is simply because she is a woman. A Glimpse Into the Past When the true Church of Christ was restored through the instrumentality of the Prophet Joseph Smith, the equal rights of men and women on earth and before God were assured. From the first, women were asked to exercise their religious franchise, the same as were the male members. Their votes in sustaining officers were accepted as were men's, and that practice continues to this day. 'The great and primal right of free agency belongs to all God's children—to his daughters as well as to his sons. In order to give women greater opportunities for progress, the Relief Society was organized through inspiration by the Prophet Joseph Smith on March 17, 1842. It was organized to "purge out iniquity" from their midst, but always to be "armed with mercy" in pursuance of their righteous labors. And, while the purpose which caused the sisters to want an organization was the desire to aid the poor and needy, yet the Prophet greatly enlarged its scope by declaring: "The Society is not only to relieve the poor, but to save souls." 'This incentive should stimulate the women of the Church to be active in this Society and to carry on incessantly. When the priesthood was restored, it was bestowed on all the righteous male members of the Church, but the blessings accruing therefrom are for the benefit of all Church members, men, women, and children. This is a wise provision, for as the mothers of men, potential or actual, women have a calling which is so time-and-energy consuming that added duties would be burdensome. In one of the Prophet's instructive discourses to the sisters, "he spoke of delivering the keys of the Priesthood to the Church, and said that the faithful members of the Relief Society should receive them in connection with their husbands, that the Saints whose integrity has been tried and proved faithful, might know how to ask the Lord and. Receive an answer" (D. H. C. Vol. IV, page 604). The sisters should accept this as a challenge to be wise and circumspect, and truly in harmony with God's laws and ordinances, or they may lose this precious gift. At another time the Prophet stated to the sisters: "I now turn the key in your behalf, in the name of the Lord, and this society shall rejoice, and knowledge and _intelligence shall flow down from this Page 147 148 time henceforth." This glorious promise is for us today, as well as for the women of the past, and should stimulate every woman in this Church to participate in the activities of Relief Society. The Present Speaks That the women of the Church have profited and do appreciate these blessings is proven by the continual growth of the Society. From the original eighteen members at the organization meeting, it has grown to a membership of over 102,000, with active groups in most of the civilized countries of the world today. The program includes the provision for the mental and spiritual growth of the members, as well as for the care of the poor or ill or needy in any way. The promise of the Founder is being fulfilled! But growth and Church membership demand progress. What of the Future? And now to us all today comes the challenge of the Future! What may we, the members of Relief Society do to help heal our sick and war-torn world? How it needs the administrations of the Great Physician, the Father of us all! I often wonder whether the women of the world, and especially of this Church, really understand the great power that they possess. If every mother were to impress upon her young and growing child that to love is so much more fun than to hate, that men are essentially good and are intended to love righteousness, and that everyone's difficulty may be settled by finding out what is right and then doing it—if that could be done, then wars would be impossible. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MARCH 1946 The mother has this definite responsibility, because through nature it is she who gives birth to and nurtures the child most closely during his early formative years, when his character for his entire future life is being formed. There are two great truths with vast implications that all should understand: (1) all great causes have small beginnings; (2) a chain is no stronger than its weakest link. The mightiest rivers on earth have their beginnings hundreds of miles away in the tiniest trickle from a melting snowbank. Many of these "trickles" unite to form a rivulet, many rivulets make a stream, the streams make a river, and many rivers uniting form the mighty Mississippi, Amazon, and Volga rivers, with their majestic power. Similarly there is an ultimate beginning of every war, and it is in the homes in which the children of men are reared—in your home and mine and all the countless homes of earth. The individual home may be likened to the tiny trickle which begins the mighty river. If a child is loved and cared for and understood from infancy, and all his problems met with fairness and justice by wise parents, he grows up with faith in his playmates and later in his fellow men, prepared to expect and to give justice and mercy 'in all his dealings in later life. These are undoubtedly the "men (and women) of good will" of whom the angels sang on the first Christmas morn when they promised peace! On the other hand, if a busy, distracted, selfish, untrained, wrongly brought-up mother, or father, treats the child with unfairness, punishes him unjustly (as the child feels), RELIEF SOCIETY AND THE FUTURE | and fails to give time and patience and love enough to understand him and his problems, even though they think they love him, then this child is very likely to grow to maturity feeling that the world is unjust, that evil is everywhere. He is sure to feel that only he succeeds who looks out for himself, and it does not matter what happens to anyone else so long as he gets what he wants. Such a child grows to maturity with a burning determination to "get even," to get revenge for the wrongs he feels were innocently forced upon him. That is but human. Of such children grow the future overlords, dictators, and all their kind who think might is right, and any means justify getting the power to rule others. War will cease only when men learn from infancy the power of love, justice, and the true worth of all God's children on earth, with their right to "life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness." The first and greatest teachers of these noble truths are the mothers of men; they can be ingrained into one's character in no other way. When the chain of world peace is forged, it can be no stronger than the men and women who have come from homes such as yours and mine with their determination, OT lack of it, to be truly "men of good will." to place on the shoulders of the mothers of men. Indeed, it is too big a job to be left to chance. Motherhood is indeed and should be the greatest of all professions, for its results are far-reaching and 149 tremendously important. Yet this profession is practically the only one today which is ignored, as such, by our schools, colleges, and universities. One must be trained for any and every other profession—even for trimming fingernails of curling hair —and especially for the "fine art" (?) of killing one's fellow men, women, and children! The tremendous increase in juvenile delinquency and crime ls rightly laid, as first cause, to faulty or broken homes, and they are surely the result of ignorant and untrained mothers and fathers—but especially mothers. Yet, what are we doing to make better mothers? Girls should learn the technique of homemaking. To trust to home training or instinct is not enough—in too many cases it is negligible. The condition of the world today proves this to be true. This, then, may be one of the greatest opportunities for the active endeavor of every mother of Zion: to work for better motherhood in the Society and to demand special intensive training in homemaking and parenthood in all our schools, even in the grades—for many girls do not reach high school or college.. This training should be as fundamental as the "Three R's." Its neglect can bring greater disaster to the entire human race. Our Relief Society program has included instruction for better motherhood and such training will be continued. Are we doing all we can in the Society,: n the communities, as in our homes, to inculcate justice, fairness, and nobility into the lives of our children and their friends? Are we making our convictions known so that our schools and other agencies will 150 provide training for parenthood and homemaking for every boy and girl in the land? If the hundred thousand voices of Relief Society are raised in any cause, they are sure to be heard. The second century of Relief Society will have many tasks for our willing hearts and hands, but surely this is one way of meeting the needs of the hour and extending our usefulness for world betterment. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MARCH 1946 Our Heavenly Father will help us in this great task, if we ask him, and activate the truths he has given for our guidance in the gospel of Jesus Christ. This is but one way we may fulfill truly our destiny as members of this great God-given Relief Society! HER STAFF Hortense Spencer Anderson The years had brought despair, and vicious sting Of loneliness and want; yet she toiled long For many others, always mastering Herself, and in return her faith grew strong. With service, she had won serenity Like cool, refreshing shade on a summer lake Surrounding her, she the willow tree, Which trembled in the storm, but did not break. And then, as if outraged, in jealous mood, That she should stand with grace and fortitude, The storm redoubled; in fury the lightning flared; And she lay ravaged by grief and pain, ensnared. Grief and pain, because she now was blind. No more could she behold this wonderland, Nor toil for others, seeking through the grind To mend.... What had she left to help her stand? Bereft of sons and home, in woe complete, She asked, "Is there a staff within my scope, Or was it for this chastening defeat Time led me through delusive fields of hope?" She found her staff, made ready, on the shelf Of tested treasures, where it had always lain, Unbroken, guarded still, within herself. Her staff of faith would help her rise again. A Few of Our Gifted Utah Women Artists Alice Merrill Horne Former Member Relief Society General Board PART III Note: Part I of this series appeared in December 1944, and Part II in January 1945 EACH year it has been my cherished privilege to introduce at least two young would-be-artists with a one-man show at Z. C. M. I. The latest addition to the ranks of our artist colony is Maude Maye Nebeker, whose work already reveals strength, courage, and a good selection of subjects. You will like her work. Mrs. Nebeker's husband is the son of my old friend Aquilla Nebeker, the President of the Senate while I served in the Third Legislature as a representative. But once, instead of choosing a young artist, I happened on a lady of dignity and charm who had been painting around for years. 'That is how, at sixty-six years young, Artemesia Redd Romney had her first exhibition at Z. C. M. I. Tiffin Room. Mrs. Romney has mothered ten "GARDENIAS"—Bessie Alice Bancroft Page 151 152 children besides looking after many missionary lads. Indeed, she has the ease and grace of the mother of a battalion. Her life story reads like the book of fate. Of late, the whole world has been celebrating V-J Day, August 14. Artemesia Redd first saw the light August 14, 1874. The parents, Lemuel Hardison and Louisa Chamberlain Redd, were pioneers of experience. Louisa was born in Salt Lake City in the early 1849's. Her father, Solomon Chamberlain, was one of the original pioneer company of 1847. The Redd family was called by Brigham Young to establish New Harmony in Washington County in Southern Utah. Lemuel Redd was a sheep rancher. Louisa Redd reared twelve sons and daughters to manhood and womanhood. Artemesia, the eldest daughter, became an expert baby tender. She was habitually creating pictures with any mediums at hand. Even that did not prevent this ambitious girl from helping her mother to reel yarn, card wool, spin, and knit her own stockings. Artemesia went to school until she was thirteen years of age. At this period the family moved to Bluff, San Juan County. Next they moved to Old Mexico when the subject of our sketch drove the team much of the way to Colonia Juarez where the Redd family settled. In Juarez, Artemesia met her future mate, George S. Romney, to whom she was married December 5, 1894. Mr. Romney, a carpenter and builder, had larger ambitions. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MARCH 1946 He was very studious and worked for years taking out his Master's and Doctor's degrees, after the family was driven out of Mexico by the Mexican rebels. Seven children had been born to them in Mexico and three others were added in Los Angeles and Oakley, Idaho. In Salt Lake City, and later in Chicago, Mr. Romney pursued his education. For thirteen years at Cassia Academy, Oakley, Idaho, while her husband served as president, Artemesia studied courses in art. While her husband studied at the University of Chicago, Mrs. Romney painted pictures. Her husband then was chosen head of the Northern States Mission. Responsibility doubled on this, our artist, as she mothered missionaries and supervised thirty Relief Societies. In the midst of this exacting work, her husband passed away. Upon the death of her mate, she plunged into painting for relief and comfort. At Brigham Young University, Provo, Utah, Mrs. Romney studied under B. F. Larsen and Verla Birrell. In Kaysville, she continued under Le Conte Stewart. Finally, she returned to the Art Students' League in Chicago where she prepared to exhibit her water colors. On her return home, at the age of sixty-six, Artemesia Redd Romney saw her work hung at the Z. C. M. I. Tiffin Room in a one-man show. So this intrepid pioneer woman is busy painting exquisite pictures of flowers. BESSIE ALICE BANCROFT, former art instructor at West High School and Horace Mann School, died last May 23d at fifty-eight years of age. UTAH WOMEN ARTISTS "COTTONWOOD CANYON"—Maude Maye Nebeker With a powerful mentality, though a weak body, she accomplished very much, seeking to in spite young people to love and understand the beautiful. Each year of her many years of service, Bessie would be found at a university devoting her vacation to study and travel, At the time of her passing she had almost completed her Master's degree. 154 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MARCH 1946 The school collection at Horace Mann was the first to be established in a Utah junior high school and was eventually named the Bessie Alice Bancroft Collection. Bessie cast her bread upon the waters. May it long continue to return and enrich those in whom she sought to create a love for and understanding of the fine arts. "PATH TO PEACE"—Alta Margene Stirk UTAH WOMEN ARTISTS ALTA MARGENE STIRK ALTA MARGENE STIRK is a beautiful young woman, daughter of an artist mother. She was presented in her first one-man show at Z.C.M.I. Tiffin Room, November 1945. The collection portrayed a variety of art interests. Flowers, the moods of spring, early autumn, and November are revealed in twenty-five water colors by Mrs. Stirk. Her study has covered Utah and the Northwest and her teachers have been Le Conte Stewart, Paul Smith, Joseph A. F. Everett, and others. Mrs. Stirk's husband has served our country in the South Pacific for three years and is now stationed at Fort Douglas."CONTRASTS" Alta Margene  THE DIFFERENCE Cleo Gordon A black wind shrieked, but you and I Went out to battle with heads held high; And fighting through it, arm in arm, Found weird beauty in the storm. Today I watch in sheltered pain Frail flowers whipped by driving rain; Now, fearfully, I shrink to see How wild and bitter a storm can be. The First Easter A Fantasy Evelyn Wooster Viner
THE lush grass ran in rippling waves before the whispering breeze. Unyielding spikes of hyacinths starred the shimmering green, and heavy-headed daffodils gleamed golden and nodded with each undulation. Dew-diamonds trembled on leaf and blade and melted into prismatic color.
In the lovely garden of Joseph of Arimathea birds welcomed the new Sabbath with a burst of song. Into the peace and quiet of the garden came a woman bearing in her hands a box. Her voluminous robe brushed the wet grasses bordering the path and tumbled a multitude of the translucent jewels to the moist earth where they at once disappeared, their brief beauty gone.
The sweetness of her face was accentuated by a sadness which deepened as the path neared the sepulchre that had been hewn from the solid outcropping of rock which showed where the hill veered sharply skyward.
Preoccupied with her own sad thoughts, she noticed nothing wrong until the trail ended under the ancient olive tree whose glossy leaves drooped in silent benediction above the tomb.
Now, however, she saw that the great rock which had so carefully been sealed into the opening was rolled back and the cavelike place yawned vacantly. Peering into it, she perceived that it was indeed empty. Fear and wonder were written on her face, and turning she ran swiftly away, her robe fluttering wildly.
After a short interval she reappeared, accompanied by two men. Both men entered the sepulchre, but, finding it empty, they soon went away, but the woman stood weeping under the olive tree.
As she was turning away, she saw a man whom she mistook for the gardener, and when he inquired the cause of her distress she said pleadingly, "Sir, if thou have borne him hence, tell me where thou hast laid him, and I will take him away."
What a wealth of tenderness he condensed in that one word, "Mary." With a glad cry of recognition she threw herself at his feet. To Mary Magdalene's joy and wonder, the resurrection had been accomplished, and as she bowed in reverence it seemed as if the sun shone a little brighter, the birds sang a little louder—and why not? It was only fitting that all nature should celebrate the first Easter day. Page 156 Proverbs 16:7. Third Prize Story Annual Relief Society Short Story Contest All Is Known Irva Pratt Andrus LIKE the winged seeds of the dandelion, the word was wafted over the land. In the village of Bethany, Sarah, the daughter of the widow, Tabitha, heard it, too. At first she paid scant attention to the strange tales, "Did you hear that at Capernaum a centurion's servant, sick these many years, was healed of Palsy by this Carpenter of Nazareth?" "Did you know that it is said two blind men could see as well as anyone after this man Jesus touched their eyes?" "Did you hear? Did you hear?" Everywhere, of a sudden, people were talking of strange happenings in the land about the Sea of Galilee. Must the only daughter of a poor widow, Sarah heard these things, and gradually she became filled with a great need to know more of this man of Nazareth. Now she paused often in the shadows before the inn to hear the latest word of Passing travelers, "Never have I heard such doc. Trine," one dusty traveler said. "He was in Galilee and great multitudes of people were gathered about listening. IRVA PRATT ANDRUS Do you know what he said? He said, 'Blessed are the poor in spirit: for theirs is the kingdom of meek would inherit "I was there, too," traveler, "and he looked down at us, but he said, plain as anything: “Ye world." "Whence hath this man this wisdom and these mighty works?" many asked, Page 157 158 Whence, indeed, thought Sarah. I wish he would come to Bethany. Perhaps he could heal Tabitha of the swelling and pains in her arms and legs and take the tired look of suffering from her face. Perhaps he could cure Simon, who is good and wise even though a leper. Perhaps— oh, there was so much to do in Bethany. So much to do in Bethany for all the poor, the sick, the lame, the blind, and so much to do for Sarah. She was ashamed of the thought. She, who was young and strong, who often heard those less fortunate call after her: "Bless you, my child," and yet she was so desperately in need of help. Deeply hidden, where others could not know, a great bitterness and discontent had been growing for many weeks within her. Sometimes she saw it reflected in her eyes as she stooped to draw water from the well, and she was afraid; afraid that Tabitha, who was so patient and good, would some day see it and be hurt by it. When trying to think back to find when this terrible thing within her had begun, Sarah thought it must have been when she first began to notice the tired, drawn look upon her mother's face. Tabitha was so good, so kind, so generous, and yet she must suffer so. Together they scarcely were able to earn a bare existence, and each time Sarah carried a bowl of soup or a morsel of food to others she knew that Tabitha would say she was not hungry when evening came. All this, and more, of need Sarah knew, and yet often on the road to Jerusalem she saw gay and laughing people dressed in rich robes and followed by numbers of slaves. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MARCH 1946 Upon the masters' hands and about their throats were shining jewels, and they were rude and haughty to any who chanced to be at the well as they drew up. Here, in the village of Bethany, daily she saw the rich and she knew the poor. This, and many small things, fed the discontent within Sarah. She could not know of what all the bitterness was made. Of what value the many tasks she must do daily if they led only to old age, to disease, to poverty? Why should bright jewels and jingling coins make such a difference? "This Jesus cares nothing for money or goods." one traveler said. "He got Matthew, who was a receiver of customs, to leave everything and follow him." What could he have said to Matthew? Was there an answer to all the suffering and struggling that piled up into days? Did he tell Matthew something that made security and comfort seem as nothing? "What does he look like?" many asked. What would such a man look like. Sarah felt that she must know. Some day she must see this Jesus, for perhaps he knew the answer to the hopelessness and fear within her. Some day he may come to Bethany, she thought. Perhaps she would meet him on her way to the well, or by the olive grove where she watched the sunset when she was not needed by Tabitha. At the thought she felt breathless and frightened. She had heard that he answered great multitudes freely, and they were strangely comforted. Word had come that Jesus had even quieted a storm upon the Sea of Galilee; perhaps he could still the storm of doubt and discontent within her. ALL IS KNOWN ONCE it was rumored that Jesus was, indeed, coming to Bethany, but Sarah was kept close at home with the sickness of Tabitha who was at times unable to move from her bed. For days she administered to the needs of her mother, and in her solicitude almost forgot the coming of Jesus. When Tabitha was well enough for Sarah to once more go about the village, she learned that Jesus had been to Bethany. He had been to the house of Simon and had cured him of his leprosy. Sarah could scarcely believe that he had come and gone. She went to see Simon to hear from his own lips of this Jesus of Nazareth. "Yes, my child, indeed he was here." The old man was fairly bouncing with excitement. "Oh, Sarah, you never have heard such doctrine." Sarah listened to all that the villagers had to say of Jesus and his teachings, and still the turmoil was with her. Her sleep now became troubled with strange dreams. Often she dreamed that she was old and sick, and that Tabitha was gone, and all the rich people were riding wildly around her shouting taunts at her. In her unhappiness she thought of going out upon the road in search of Jesus, but the thought of Tabitha tugged at her heart. She could not leave her mother. She must wait until he came. Nearly three years had passed since the first word had come to the village of the work of Jesus, and as 159 the third springtime touched the hills about Bethany, travelers again brought word that this man who had so moved the people throughout the land, was on his way to Jerusalem. At evening Sarah went to the house of Simon. Had he seen Jesus? Was he coming to Bethany? "I am afraid for him," Simon said, shaking his shaggy head. "He is even now in Jerusalem, and the chief priests will do all they can to destroy him, my child." "Destroy Jesus?" Sarah was unbelieving. "He does only good to the people. Why should the priests want to destroy him?" "Why, indeed," answered Simon, "because too many people are beginning to want to live as he teaches, that's why, Sarah. Did you not hear he has even driven the moneychangers from the Temple and declared that it is to be a house of prayer? The priests cannot fill their moneybags with prayers." "Did he? Did he, really?" Sarah cried. "When will he come again to Bethany?" She could scarcely hide the trembling that had come upon her. "At any hour, Sarah girl, at any hour!" the old man replied. At any hour! Perhaps even now he neared the village. With urgent haste Sarah left the house of Simon. Half running, she took the winding path toward the olive groves. The sun was lingering upon the edge of a distant slope, sending forth long shoots of light to push against the persistent shadows slipping among the trees, when Sarah sat down to watch the road from Jerusalem. The dustv green of the 160 olive trees was softened contrast for the blossoms of the almond trees nearby; the ground was smooth with the softness of emerald shoots stretching upward. Intently Sarah watched; she must not miss Jesus this time. Even as she waited her fear was close beside her. What could he say to her? What could he do to change this hard ball of bitterness and discouragement? "Sarah," said a voice so close beside her that, startled, she sprang to her feet. Such a deep, rich voice she had never heard before. How had he come upon her so quietly? How had he known her name? The sunrays were full upon his face as she looked at him; he seemed as no other man she had ever seen. His eyes had such a steadiness within them, yet he looked very tired. "Why fret you, Sarah?" His words were like music of running RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MARCH 1946 water. "All is known to your Father in heaven." Sarah did not answer; instead she dropped her eyes and her breath swelled within her. How could he know? Yet she. Was sure that he did know. All that was within her heart of doubt, of fear, of hurt, of defeat, he knew. Other words he spoke, and as she listened it was as if the strange radiance of the sunset were melting away her bitterness. What his words were, Sarah could never recall afterwards, but she knew that they were peace, courage, and hope. When he left her Sarah stood very still watching as he went down the winding path. The last strong rays of the sun glowed around him, and to her it seemed that his robe was Of shining gold. Into the house of Tabitha, in the town of Bethany, she carried a warm bright reflection. Irva Pratt Andrus, Provo, Utah, is the wife of the artist, J. Roman Andrus of Brigham Young University faculty. Mrs. Andrus, daughter of Orson W. And Emma J. Pratt, was born in Kanab, Utah, and attended Dixie Junior College in St. George. She is the mother of four young children. Her literary work has appeared in The Relief Society Magazine, the Improvement Era, the Children's Friend, in the poetry anthology Utah Sings, and several of her poems have been read over the radio. At present she is working on a biography of Jim Andrus, Dixie pioneer stockman. A devoted Relief Society worker, Mrs. Andrus is now a member of Utah Stake Relief Society Board, acting as Visiting Teachers' Messages Leader. She writes: "You may be interested in knowing that the story 'All Is Known' began to take form last winter as I prepared the Teachers' Messages lesson on the Beatitudes." If all the countries would accept the Sermon on the Mount as their common denominator there would be no more wars, and troubles between nations would cease. —Honorable Louis Ludlow of Indiana, from a speech in the House of Representatives, November 12, 1945. EASTER LILY Evelyn Fjelsted We stand in breathless awe before The Easter lily now in bloom; In silence it has long designed To glorify our living room. The bulb, so still, a secret held— A secret of a coming dawn, A proof of life renewed where once Another bloom had come and gone. "They toil not, neither do they spin," And yet a king was not arrayed Like one of these whose royalty Presents a roseate parade. Each lily seems to hold a scroll That tells in sweet humility, The story written in a bulb— A treatise on eternity. "CONSIDER THE LILIES" From a Painting by LeJeune A Perry Picture Page 16] An Open Door to Happiness Wilford D. Lee FROM the time that the boy first tastes great juicy apples from his father's orchard, and plays hide-and-seek in the gigantic sweet clover which grows between the trees, to the time that he comes into manhood, he becomes more and more convinced that God made this unusual world as a place to be enjoyed. Because the boy was raised on a farm he came in contact with nature early, and as far back as he can remember, these contacts have been pleasant. Moreover, the things which were pleasant when they were experienced have continued to give him joy when the experience itself is gone. It is interesting to step inside the boy's mind and find what is stored there—to see how the sights and sounds and tastes and smells of natural life help to give the man happiness. His father was a beekeeper who placed his hives on the sunny southwest slopes of those low Idaho hills just east of the upper Snake River. When the spring came the boy was chosen, because of a special skill, to stay near the apiary and watch for swarms. The boy had learned to whistle, but not in the little girls' way, nor in the manner of the bird imitator. His whistle was a loud and lusty blast, a piercing sound which, on a clear day, could be heard half a mile away. What marvelous beauties he experienced on those first warm days of spring! He lay on his back with his hat over his eyes, there on the Page 162 sun-splashed hillside, soaking in the warmth which so long, through the winter months, had been denied. And even with his eyes shut, he could tell what was going on in the valley below him. Just a few rods away, the canal skirted the hill, and in the willows that fringed its banks, the red-winged blackbirds caroled their melodious harmony. In the silences, when they flew away, the boy could hear his father plowing in the field below the canal, the steady squeak of stretching leather, the click of singletrees, the musical tinkle of chains, the rhythmical stamp of the horses' hoofs as they thrust their shoulders into the creaking collars, the scrape of the plow as it grated upon a rock. IN the lull of the noontide, when the horses were in the stable, and the birds were resting in the shade, the smell of wild things crept into the silences like shy welcome creatures which were always present, yet unnoticed in the medley of sound. The sweet damp earth steamed in the warmth of the strengthening sun; the rotting vegetation sent up the smell of ripe fertility; the plowed field exuded into the breeze its own particular smell of new-turned earth. The snowdrops, the sweet william, the docks, and the little snowballs all hinted at perfumes which could not be really smelled without picking the flower. AN OPEN DOOR TO HAPPINESS The newly opened leaves of the willow and the poplar mixed the scent of their sticky sap with the smell of dandelions and apple blossoms which was brought to the hill by the giant-legged bees, But all of these perfumes were drenched and strengthened by the sage which dashed its tangy perfume on every puff of the south wind. Into the drowsiness, just when the boy was farthest away in a sleepy ecstasy, the sound of the bees rose in quick crescendo, singing with a high whining hum; then he sat up to find that the bees were swarming. They poured from the hive like water from a break in the canal. The boy leaped to his feet, and cupping his hands to his mouth, sent forth his shrillest blast again and again until his throat pained him. The sound streaked away, like a stream of light, to the house a quarter of a mile away. The father, coming to the door, waved, then started at a trot for the hill. When the lad saw that the father had heard, he turned, and dipping up water, from tubs prepared beforehand, flung it into the air among the circling bees. By the time the father got there, the bees were clustering on a Sage or willow bush while the man squatted unveiled, breathing hard from his run up the hill, and tried to find the queen. Failing in that, he took the box of frames which the boy had brought, and shook the bees into it. This was the spice of life which made existence interesting. And a lazy life it was, for, although the child helped to capture hundreds of swarms, he has yet to see the vanguard of one issuing from the hive. Always he was too busy lying on his back, looking up into the clear blue sky, preoccupied with seeing, and smelling, and tasting, and feeling the joyous excitations of nature. Never 163 until the swarm was a spiraling, circling cyclone of life, did the boy realize that the bees were swarming. With the declining sun, a chill crept into the air, and the child awoke from his reverie, it was then that his senses became as acute as pain. He rose and shook himself into wakefulness, and started for the house. As he moved along, the evening robins filled his ears with chirping, but through the gaps in their song, he heard the wind whizz through the dry stems of last year's grass. The shadows gathered in purple splotches in unexpected places; the western horizon, lit up with reds and golds, sent aloft long fingers of light as if in thankfulness to God for the perfect day. The hum of all living things as they gathered in peace for the night, the tang of willow bark on the lad's tongue as he crossed the canal to the house, the Caress of the south wind as it swept his cheek, all moved and thrilled him as he ended his day. AND so it is that we love nature, and get joy from all her sounds and smells and delicate hues. Who can resist the splashing loveliness of a mountain stream as it dashes along its bed? It is like a mischievous boy whose play is never ended. We love to sit so close that the roar of it is in Our ears, and the splash of its spray is On our faces. It is abundantly true that from the nature which is intensely smelled, and tasted, and felt, we get one of the purest types of happiness; and not only happiness, but truth as well, for poets, and musicians, and artists everywhere come to nature for their inspiration; and Philosophers and Prophets use her 164 every mood as proof for their principles of right. Many of the experiences in nature are either painful or ludicrous; yet as they pass into the background of the mind, they lose their sting and remain in Our memories as sweet Or beautiful events. The lad came to know about cows in some such way. All his life he had been fond of milk, and when the old white-faced cow went dry, which seemed to him entirely too often, he stood at the house and looked up to the canal where the animal stood knee-deep in clover placidly chewing her cud, the picture of patient contentment. And then she calved. What rejoicings there were when the nine milkings had been fed to the pigs! Then, one day an older sister and brother took the lad out to see the new-born calf. The cow, which had always been so mild and docile, was feeding in the field. How were they to know that she would object to the sister's red dress? With a snort and a bellow she charged! And only by flying like the wind, whisking the child between them, did the brother and the sister save him. They popped into the honey house and slammed the door just as the old cow lunged against it. She bellowed and pawed the earth until the father came and drove her away. In somewhat the same way, the children came to know the habit patterns of geese. Certainly they should have known better, for they all had helped to pick the feathers from the birds at molting time. Woe to the person who let go of a wing. With the knobs of his pinions the goose can strike a blow like a prize fighter. One spring the old gray goose RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MARCH 1946 laid her eggs in an overturned barrel. In the allotted time she brought out eight beautiful puffs of yellow down. How the children wanted to touch them as they followed their mother in military order to the water! One day the boy slipped up behind the old goose while she was feeding on the new green alfalfa, and caught a little gosling. Though he held it carefully, its cries brought the old goose charging. Such a beating fury hit his back and shoulders that he was knocked to the ground, where the old goose beat him and pulled his hair until the boy's mother, answering his screams, came and drove the old goose off and saved him from being completely gobbled up. It is said that happiness is dependent upon the possession of a certain amount of the physical comforts of life, such as food, clothing, shelter; yet it is surprising how many people have these things and yet are not happy. In fact, the overindulgence of the appetite in physical enjoyments is certain to bring weariness rather than the expected joy. The man who tastes lightly of the good things is the one who enjoys them most. With an appetite that is unsated, the person goes on through life, still enjoying, still experiencing keenly, still adding to the happiness which is already his. An appetite that is gorged, whether it be with food, or drink, or entertainment, can never give its owner a satisfying thrill of happiness. Thus, some of the most subtle experiences come from the stored images which, as Wordsworth says, "flash upon the inward eye, which is the bliss of solitude." The storing of the soul with beauty is the process by which real culture is accomplished. AN OPEN DOOR TO HAPPINESS The type of culture which grows from within is in abrupt contrast to the semi-polite veneer which can be, and often is, removed when the individual is away from the ones whom he wishes to impress. It is a type of inward training which makes "endless additions to itself..... Endless expansions to its posers..... Endless growth in wisdom and _ beauty." Such a culture is not having and resting, but growing and becoming. It is an idea of perfection which is totally at variance with the ideas of culture which a material and a mechanical civilization gives us. The time may come when materialistic people will completely satisfy their desire for things, for gadgets, for machines, and for new inventions. In that time when their desires are satisfied, when their appetites are surfeited with clothes, and automobiles, and houses, intelligent people will wake up to the fact that they have minds, and _ that, through the development of the mind, the greatest happiness can be achieved. 165 Yet the obtaining of happiness is a complex process, and cannot be completely accomplished with only one source. Joy is a stream which flows from many fountains, only one of which is the overflowing spring of stored-up beauty. Happiness comes also from the thrill of creation, whether that creation is a wicker basket or a Paradise Lost. And happiness comes from a sense of inner purity, a joyous oneness with God. The feeling of love for all the world steals in when sympathy replaces envy, when love replaces hate, when exquisite satisfaction follows a legitimate wish. LATE MOTHERHOOD Eva Willes Wangsgaard She has waited long for this Marvel of maternal bliss; Joy illumining her face Wells from love as deep as space. Here is proof that love can wreathe A room till you can feel it breathe; Rapt with joy, she has not heard Our steps. Retreat, without a word. Let no movement nor mischance Startle moth-winged radiance. Our Parks and Playgrounds Fred Tedesco Commissioner, Parks and Public Property, Salt Lake City, Utah (Prepared at the request of the Church Beautification Committee. THE concerted effort of every worthwhile and up-and-coming organization in Salt Lake City will be pointed toward the 1947 Centennial. This is a twelve-month celebration set aside to commemorate the arrival of the Mormon pioneers who suffered untold hardships and privations to reach this promised land. It is fitting, then, that our efforts be bent in preparation for a celebration worthy of their memory. The creed of the pioneer recognized the necessity of setting aside a certain portion of each day for the purpose of recreation. His day was a full one devoted to working, playing, sleeping, and a certain amount of time set aside for worship and prayer. The youth of our City are a living commemoration of the progeny of the Utah pioneers of one hundred years ago. The leaders of our community, as well as our mothers and fathers, have recognized the value of our young people and their need for play and recreation. Our playgrounds, parks, and other recreational facilities have been established to fill the leisure-time hours of our youth, as well as those of adults. Brigham Young designated certain areas to be set aside for parks and recreation. Liberty Park, Pioneer Park, and others still stand. His successors met new occasions as they Page 166 arose and established other parks to meet the current needs of their day in areas undesignated by him. Today, with the exception of one section, parks and playgrounds are well distributed throughout our City. Salt Lake City now has thirty-two playgrounds, of which twenty-five are supervised during the summer months by qualified recreational directors. Our community has eighteen beautiful and well-groomed parks, rated on a par with any city comparable in size in the United States and far surpassing at least seventy-five per cent of them. In these parks we have seven swimming pools, which are used and enjoyed by thousands of children and adults. Today, Salt Lake City is rated a national leader in boys' club and girls' club activities, having established and operated with increasing success five completely equipped and well-supervised boys' clubs and girls' clubs. 'These clubs have a present membership of 10,000 boys and girls. These, together with the parks described below, as well as specific facilities for every other recreational pursuit, stand in readiness to pay a worthy tribute to our courageous and far-sighted forefathers. OUR PARKS AND PLAYGROUNDS 167 SWIMMING POOL AT FAIRMONT PARK, SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH THE Tracy Aviary is one of the most outstanding bird sanctuaries in the United States. Its varied and complex collection of birds and small animals presents two hours of full and complete enjoyment to any visitor. Hogle Zoological Gardens situated at the mouth of the Emigration Canyon, where the pioneers made their dramatic entrance into this valley, is a picturesque setting for the lions, tigers, bears, and other large animals that live in pens depicting their natural habitat. This place is a definite source of education and interest, especially to the young people. Memory Grove Park, established to the memory of the fallen soldiers of World War One, is a beautiful spot to behold. It is placed on the canyon floor between two mountainous walls of well-shrubbed, grassy expanse. Mothers and loved ones of our fallen heroes gain much solace in its beauty and reverence. The three municipal golf courses, Nibley Park, Forest Dale, and Bonneville, whose grounds and fairways provide many happy hours to thousands of golfers each year, appeal to adults in preference to the youth. Down through the century, with inspiring zeal, the Mormon pioneer constructed, alongside every chapel, an edifice designed for recreation and amusement. Today, his descendant children, fully aware of his gift to them, live in fulfillment of this most cherished dream, among expansive provisions for their leisure-time moral and physical development. We Sixty Years Ago Excerpts from the Woman's Exponent, March 1 and March 15, 1886 "For THE RIGHTS OF THE WOMEN OF ZION AND THE Rights OF THE WOMEN OF ALL Nations" WRITE TO ME VERY OFTEN Write to me very often, If you but send a line, For the ocean rolls between us, Yet your life seems linked to mine. I am tarrying with strangers, But when your letters come, My heart is high with rapture, For they speak of love and home. —Anonymous ee Re HOUSE-FURNISHING: In house-furnishing a little money and a good deal of taste go much farther than a little taste and a good deal of money. The first rule, and 4 most important one, is to go slowly. Learn what you want, and having decided this question, never accept anything else until all possible expedients are exhausted for procuring it. Do without until the moment of absolute necessity rather than accept unsatisfactory substitutes —Selected a CONVERSATION: One of the chief benefits of conversation is that each can learn that which his companion knows and he does not; but this benefit can come only to the modest and receptive mind. Most of the argument held by persons of opposite views is quite futile for the want of this mental condition. The object is not to find out the truth about the mooted subject, but to shine and to conquer. Neither party becomes wiser, neither is convinced. The humiliation of the one and the triumph of the other are alike fruitless. Editorial Note UTAH STAKE: Relief Society Conference, February 26, 1886. President John felt well in meeting with the sisters in conference once more and thought we were doing a good work. We know that this is the Kingdom of God, and feel that the Lord is blessing us here in Provo****Let us honor those who are called to preside over us and pray for them. We must learn to build up and not pull down. Let us cultivate a spirit of peace, for our strength lies in the power we have with God.—O. Daniels, Secretary MISCELLANEOUS: Many a small man never ceases talking about small sacrifices he makes; but he is a great man who can sacrifice everything and say nothing. Let any man in middle life look over the list of those he has known and ask himself whether those have always succeeded best whose minds were most intent upon success. OUR CHILDREN: It is a great boon to the rising generation that the old custom of "telling ghost stories" and "witch stories" is pretty much abandoned. Pleasant and true stories are the best for the little ones to become interested in ****In connection with this subject, it may be observed how very important it is that little ones should be early taught to pray.—Lula Page 168 Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon A poll of women's page editors of Associated Press Newspapers throughout the nation has chosen as the ten outstanding women of 1945 the following: Lise Meitner, for her research on the atom bomb, is named the woman of the year. In business, Mrs. Ogden Reid, Vice-president of the New York Herald Tribune. In politics, Mrs. Clare Boothe Luce, congresswoman. In music, Patrice Munsell of the Metropolitan Opera. In beauty, Hedy Lamarr. In stage and screen roles, Ingrid Bergman. In sports, Babe Didrickson, champion golfer. In radio, Dinah Shore. In military service, Captain Mildred McAfee, Director of the Women's Naval Reserve. In literature, Mary Chase for her whimsical comedy, Harvey, in which the leading character always takes around with him a rabbit the size of a man. The rabbit, however, is invisible, and the family is embarrassed by Elwood's behavior. NORA KAYE, in her early twenties, ranks next to Markova in the American ballet. She has danced the lead in three out of five new ballets introduced by the Metropolitan Opera. LIEUTENANT COLONEL MARY AGNES BROWN has been appointed to serve on the staff of General Omar N. Bradley of the Veterans' Administration. Lieutenant Colonel Brown went to the Pacific in March 1944, winning many awards for her courageous service. A former attorney, she was president of the Women's Bar Association of Washington. She will handle the problems of the women veterans. MRS. ANN JANE PEEL NOBLE, a valiant pioneer of 1862, passed away in Mesa, Arizona, December 17, 1945. As a girl of ten, Mrs. Noble walked the entire distance from the Missouri River to the Salt Lake Valley. She was married January 30, 1870, in the old Endowment House to Edward Alvah Noble. Mrs. Noble was the mother of thirteen children and, in addition, reared two other children to womanhood. Her life was a beautiful example of love and devotion to her family and to her Church. With her husband, Mrs. Noble helped to pioneer the settlements of Kanab, Utah, and later, St. Johns and Alpine, Arizona. At the latter place, she made her home for a period of sixty-five years. She would have been ninety-four years of age on February 15, 1946. Six sons and daughters survive her passing. Page 169 EDITORIAL 9 MARCH 1946 “A Thing of Beauty Is a Joy Forever" MANY Relief Society women have in their possession treasured heirlooms that are the handiwork of a member of the family. These heirlooms, in many instances, represent the skills and crafts of pioneer ancestors and forebears who brought from the old country the domestic arts peculiar to the country from which they emigrated. The articles have grown in value as they have been handed down from generation to generation not only because of their age and beauty, but also because the knowledge of the skills required to produce these articles is gradually disappearing. This is a very unfortunate condition and there are many reasons for it. The chief reason, however, is one of neglect—neglect on the part of the younger women to learn from the older women how to do «this handwork. The knowledge of many skills and crafts has gone to the grave with women who would willingly have passed the knowledge on to others had the opportunity presented itself. Because this is a mechanized age and modern women lead very active lives, few have taken time to learn and use this precious inheritance from the past. It would be tragic to lose this part of our inheritance because the developing of these skills to produce handwork can enrich life in many ways. Page 170 “The arts and crafts can beautify the home and bring pleasure to guests as well as to members of the family, This developing of skillful hands has a very hygienic effect on the mind and it also helps to produce a confident spirit. The Relief Society program presents two distinct opportunities for the encouragement, preservation, and teaching of the skills and crafts to women. The desire of the Relief Society General Board to encourage and preserve the skills of Mormon women was a vital factor in establishing the Mormon Handicraft Gift Shop. Many women throughout the Church again took an interest in handicraft and found a ready outlet for the work of their hands. Crafts that had been thought "old-fashioned" were revived, and the articles made have been much in demand. Many family incomes were thus bolstered and supplemented by the proceeds from the sale of handwork contributed to the Shop. The work meeting provides an ideal opportunity for teaching skills and crafts to those desirous of learning these arts. In every ward there are women, skillful in some phase of handicraft, who would be willing to teach others at a work meeting. EDITORIAL 171 The work meeting could be made more interesting and valuable to the women by teaching them old and new crochet and knitting stitches, how to et (almost a lost art), how to make a rag rug so that it will lie flat, and how to do the many interesting embroidery stitches and where to use them. Many women who would not be interested in the arts already mentioned still could not resist learning to do needle or petit point. The Relief Society will always endeavor to encourage and preserve the crafts and sills of Mormon women. G.R.G. New serial to Begin in April A new serial, "Faith Is a Heritage," by Christie Lund Coles, will begin in the April Relief Society Magazine. The problems of a young widow and her adjustment to a changed social and economic environment are graphically presented. Through patience, hard work, and faith, Enid Drage solves her problems and rears her daughter to young womanhood. The author, a gifted daughter of C. N. and Cecelia Peterson Lund, was born in Salina, Utah. The family later moved to Mount Pleasant where Christie attended grade school. When the Lunds came to Salt Lake City, Christie completed her high school work, attended the University of Utah, and, in 1933, she was married to Elroy Coles. Their eleven-year-old daughter, Christie Caroline, is already writing poetry.
Stories and poems by Mrs. Coles have appeared in magazines and newspapers of national circulation, including the Saturday Evening Post, Good Housekeeping, the Washington (D.C.) Evening Star, The Saturday Review of Literature, Tomorrow, The New York Times, and many other publications. Her story "Victory Girl," published in a recent issue of the Rocky Mountain Review, has been rated by critics as one of the best short stories written by a Utah author. Mrs. Coles has published one volume of verse, Legacy, and has a second volume compiled.
Our readers are familiar with the stories and poems, many of them prize winners, which Mrs. Coles has contributed to the Magazine.REMEMBER LOVE Anna Prince Redd
My heart looks up, accepts its meager boon! There is no Gilead oil in bitter pride. No sesame for joy in cynic mood, But love, remembered, ever will be mine.
The Clouded Window Caroline Eyring Miner THERE was once a woman who called to her neighbor and said, "My dear, just look, if you will, at Sarah Brown's washing on the line. It is so grimy it's a disgrace to hang it out," and she peered through her window again at the line hung with damp clothes, as if to justify her remark. That glance, through her own soot-covered, dusty, and spotted window was the only possible justification for her cruel words. Outside, or viewed through shiny windows, Sarah Brown's clothes swung white as freshly fallen snow in the crisp morning breeze. Too often the windows of our souls are sooty and grimy with dirt so that they obscure the true state of affairs. I am thinking of the soot of envy, and jealousy, the grime of slander and gossip and alibi. My neighbor has succeeded in winning prizes on her canned vegetables and fruits at the county fair. I have seen her products and feel that mine are better and I have desired and coveted just such recognition as she has received. Looking through a clean window I would see things as they are. Her products, which she made a great effort to display, were really the best at the fair. I should be glad for her justified reward, but I am viewing the incident through a clouded window and so I am envious and jealous of her recognition. I slander her work and alibi my own position. Almost every moment of our lives is colored or discolored by the window through which we view it, or in other words by our individual point of view. I know a woman intimately who looks at the world through a rose-colored window. She is enthusiastic about everyone and everything. She is uncritical and each experience as it comes to her, whether objectively good or bad, is the very best thing that could have happened to her. What a delightful view she enjoys from her window. We are not all alike, though, and perhaps it is as well that we are not all looking at the world through tinted windows. The essential thing is that we see things as they are through clear windows and not distorted and sullied, through sooty and clouded ones. Page 172 Prelude to Spring Beatrice Rordame Parsons THE last tiny edges of snow had melted into small rivulets across the yard, and daffodils lifted tiny yellow, lavender, and pink heads among the last winter's leaves.
Gram Latimer and her young neighbor, Alicia Tremayne, who lived in the big, white farmhouse halfway down the road, stood on the porch of the old Latimer farmhouse and glanced eagerly towards the state highway.
Far off in the distance a yellow car moved against the horizon. Gram's voice quivered. "It's him, Lissa. It's Val. He's coming home at last."
Her fingers pulled the woolen shawl closer about her shoulders, though the early March sun was warm against her snow-white hair. Excitement showed in her features—excitement and happiness, with just a tiny shadow of fear. She looked at the girl.
"Will . . . will he be changed, dear? It's been such a long time. It's been out of the army for eight months. And yet he hasn't been home."
A tiny pain suspended itself in Alicia's heart. Why hadn't Val come? What had happened? It had been a long time. Four years since he had gone away. So much had happened in between. The war. The wound in his hand. His engagement to Winni. . . .
Almost as if she had read Alicia's thoughts, Gram said sharply, "She's coming with him—she and her brother, Hank Carter, who has that band in town. Val wants to show her off."
The pain in Alicia's heart grew stronger. Once she had dreamed of Val as a girl dreams of the man she loves. But with his engagement to Winni she had wrapped those dreams in the tiniest corner of her heart. She spoke quietly. "I'm glad he's happy, Gram. He deserves to be."
Gram shook her head and her faded brown eyes were shrewd. "Val's a farm boy, no matter what high-falutin' notions he's got since the war. He belongs on the farm." Her voice died to a fraction of its tone and she whispered. "He's got to want to stay on the farm, Lissa."
Alicia knew what it meant to Gram to have Val back. She knew how hard it had been for the old lady all these years. She had done the best she could, but fallow land, unplanted fields and broken fences attested to her lack of help. Alicia tried not to see how shabby things were. She spoke almost fiercely. "Soon it will be beautiful. Right now everything's sort of . . . well, dark brown and . . . and ugly. But pretty soon the apple trees will be spreading a pink carpet over the orchard, and the gulls will be following the plow."
GRAM did not seem to hear her vehemence. The cab was turning into the long lane that led towards the house. As Alicia finished, it stopped at the white picket gate. Page 173 174 In another minute Val stepped out and Alicia's eyes shone in spite of her resolution not to show how much it meant to her to have him come home. ~ He looked the same, tall, wide-shouldered, with rumpled brown hair and laughing brown eyes very much like Gram's. He put out his left hand and helped Winni out, and Alicia's eyes filled with tears. His right hand hung stiff and useless at his side. The girl was beautiful in a tall, haughty way, with smooth dark hair rolled into a great chignon at her neck and blue eyes that examined everything carefully. Her brother, Hank, was round and cheerful, and he carried his violin case carelessly as he came up the walk. Winni called to him sharply, "Hank, do carry my bag! You know Val can't manage it and the little one, too." Dutifully, Hank turned and picked up the bag, but in spite of Val's smile, Alicia saw him wince. Then he was striding up the walk, and his left arm was holding his grandmother close against his side while he kissed her. "Gram, Gram, darling, it's good to see you." He kissed her again, then looked across her thin shoulder at the girl standing beside her. His eyes widened, then he began to laugh, as he offered his hand. "Is it really you, Lissa? I'd never have known you! Where are all those freckles, long legs and fiery hair?" He looked at her until she blushed furiously, and Winnie's cool voice asked, "Darling, aren't you going to introduce us?" RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MARCH 1946 She held out a formal hand and her fingers brushed Alicia's for an instant. 'Then she turned and stared at the old stone house. "How quaint, Val. It's just like a picture of some old pioneer home." A smile lighted Gram's face. "It is a pioneer home, Winni. My grandfather built it, clearing the rocks from the land to build the house." Hank tapped one of the big stones in the pillar of the porch and remarked smilingly, "Your grandfather must have been quite a guy, Mrs. Latimer." They all laughed as Gram ushered them inside. She hurried off to the kitchen to see about lunch and Val stopped on his way through the hall to poke and pry into every corner. Winni followed Hank and Alicia into the living room and stood in the doorway, a tiny disdainful smile crossing her lips as she saw the rose-sprigged, old-fashioned wallpaper. All at once, Alicia saw that Val had joined them. He was standing just inside the door, his eyes going slowly around the room. When he spoke it was almost as if he were speaking to himself. "Funny, but out there on the islands I kept remembering the pattern of this carpet." HIS toe traced the outline of a big, red rose, and Alicia knew that he meant he had remembered the pattern of everything—the way Gram's soft white curtains framed the big bay window, the pictures on the wall, the way the sunlight caressed the piano keys. She saw him straighten as his eyes turned towards the piano and almost at once his face set itself into a hard, gray mask. Before he had gone PRELUDE TO SPRING away, Val had played the piano. He had been better than most of the boys who had taken lessons from the one country teacher. Val had something that set him just a little apart. Now that thing was gone. He would never play again. Alicia found herself shivering as she watched Winni cross the room and strike a few chords on the piano. As the girl lifted her throaty voice in a crooning sort of song, Alicia wondered if she had ever known the grim, unsmiling man who listened. When she was through, Hank clapped a little. "That's the idea, Win. You've got it now. It'll go over big with the band if you sing it that way at the opening of the season at the Bronze Club." All at once Alicia knew she was going to cry. She had to get away. Her voice was smothered as she said: "I... I must go. Mother will be expecting me for lunch." She turned and hurried away. But Val followed her through the hall and out to the porch. There he faced her almost angrily. "Why are you running away? Aren't we friends any longer, or... " his lip curled bitterly, "... Or is it that you don't want to talk about my hand?" His words battered at her defenses and the tears rolled down her cheeks. "Oh, my dear, my dear," she whispered, and caught her lower lip in her teeth to stop the words. But it was too late. Everything she had ever dreamed was in her voice, her words. He looked into her clear, fine eyes, then turned abruptly away. "It's not myself I'm thinking of," he muttered, "it's Gram and Winni. Both have a right to something better than a one-handed man!" He 175 looked out over the bleak landscape, at the barren fields, the leafless cottonwoods, the little brook that wandered through the muddy meadow, and his voice was scornful. "I can't ask Winni to live here. Gram wants me to. But this is ugly... Dead. Winni's beautiful and talented. She has a career before her, singing with Hank's band. Gram belongs here, but she's got to come away with us. Someone's got to look after her, now. She's worked too hard. She's old. ['ll sell the farm and get a job...." But he stopped and held up his hand, his eyes filling with sardonic hurt, his lips twisting into a smile that cut into Alicia's heart. "There must be something a one-handed man can do," he said harshly. "There is, Val!' It was Winni's voice and though it was meant to be soothing, Alicia heard a rasp to it that was meant for her. Winni's eyes accused her of upsetting Val. Of hurting him. Winni said defensively, "Val's going to play the piano in Hank's orchestra." At Val's quick little movement of dissent, she said sharply, "I've told him again and again that he can do it. He was always beating out left-hand melody at the hospital when I sang there. He's good. I've been trying to convince him that he can join the band and make a living in spite of his hand." As if the matter were settled, she put her hand on his arm and drew him towards the door. "We'll see you sometime," she told Alicia cooly. It was several mornings later, while Alicia was pruning her roses, that Val came down the road and stopped at her gate. "A thorn among the roses," he said teasingly, reminding her of the young lad who had come 176 down the lane when children. "You can't get on the best side of me," she said sternly, though her eyes laughed, "by handing, out compliments." His legs were long enough to step over the gate without opening it. He came to her side and caught her hand. "The way you're digging among those roses, I doubt that they'll ever bloom. Winni's getting her beauty sleep. She's used to being lazy. I woke early and Gram set breakfast on the kitchen table just like she did when I was a youngster." His eyes were young and gay. "Now I want to look things over, everything that I missed when I was away. You're going to show them to me." OE pulled her to her feet, his left hand strong and warm about her fingers, and pushed open the gate. Alicia knew she had never been so aware of anyone as she was of this tall, firm-shouldered man striding along that she must skip a step every once in a while and run a little. He wore brown slacks and a brown wool sweater that matched his rumpled hair, and for the first time he looked rested and happy. But grimness crept back into his face as they walked around the farm. Though the sun was growing warmer no green shoots, except the dried breeze. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MARCH 1946 At a board nailed crooked against the barn, and his voice was hoarse. "Gram's been carpenter, handy man, and everything else since I've been ay. It makes me sick to think of der-length veil and said softly, "She's loved doing it, Val. She’s done it a stick in his left fingers and slashed at the tops of the dried grass. His voice chilled her with its scornful tone. "Remember, Lissa, when we were kids, we used to pretend that sticks were ships going out for treasure." He tossed the bit of stick in his hand into the water and watched it out of sight. His lips curled "Fine treasure my ship brought in.” The defenselessness of his young face stabbed her to the center of her She longed to put out her and to touch him, to hold him closely in her arms. If only were some way she could help him! This was Val's problem. He must solve it alone. He one who could help. Her voice was crisp in spite of what it cost her to speak. "Each man fights for his own treasure, Val.” He turned on her angrily "I’m sick of fighting. The world’s sick of fighting. All we know is peace” “Not the sort of peace,” objected Alicia fiercely, “that makes us weak.” For a moment she thought he waws going to shout at her, put his hand against her shoulder and shake her. PRELUDE TO SPRING Then his shoulders drooped and he appealed to her with childlike simplicity. "Tell me, Lissa, what can I do? How can I fight against..." he waved his broken hand towards the cold, dark land... "all this!" There was so much pain in his voice that she swayed a little towards him, then drew sharply back. Her eyes as they met his were darkly blue and earnest. "You could plow that field!" He looked at it, his eyes lighting quickly. "Gram would like that," he said. "She wants to plant some sugar beets...." his voice trailed despondently away. "It takes two good hands to plant and plow. It's easier to sell." 'The old hardness was back in his face. "I've got a buyer," he finished curtly. "Winni's going back to town for the opening of the club. I've decided to join the band. As soon as I've worked up some good left-hand tunes, I'll be going too. Winni's going to find Gram an apartment..." ALICIA found hysterical laughter bubbling towards her lips. Val looked at her curiously. "What's the matter?" he exploded. "I've got everything worked out, and you don't seem to like the idea." "He fixed her with a baleful glare and asked, "Just what do you think I should do?" She didn't mean to say any more, but in spite of her resolution she found herself repeating the words: "Plow that field." He sputtered angrily, "I'll bet you think I don't know how. I'll bet..." Then he stopped, turned. Furiously on his heel, and marched across the meadow. It was several mornings later that 177 Alicia woke to the sound of gulls following a plow. She went to the window and her eyes widened swiftly. Val was plowing the field! As she watched, the plow slipped from his fingers and she saw him angrily dash the perspiration from his forehead with his shirt sleeve. For a moment she thought he was going to leave the team standing just where it was. Then he snatched up the plow and followed it doggedly up and down the furrows. They wobbled crazily, but he went on and on. Alicia's smile was tender as she let the curtain fall into place. He came down the road that evening and sat on her front steps in the early spring twilight. He lifted his left hand and showed her the blisters that stood out red and angry across the palm. He smiled shamefacedly. "I started to plow because I was so angry at you. But I got to liking it. It took me back to when I was a kid and followed Dad when he plowed." She laughed joyfully. "I used to follow, too, and get in the way. Do you think I'd get in the way if I followed you tomorrow?" "Td like it," he said, and added slyly, "if you won't be shocked if I grumble a little." Within a few days the field was plowed and planted. Gram smiled as she brought them tall glasses of cold milk and big wedges of spice cake. "It's like old times to have you two kids under foot again." She turned and looked at the house. 178 "The house would look the same, too, if it had a coat of paint on the windows and doors." "If that's a hint," said Val flatly, "I can't hear a word. Let Mr. Thurgood paint his own house, when he buys it." Mr. Thurgood seemed anxious to do it when he 
came to look the farm over. He strode about, a running fire of words falling from his lips. "I’ll paint the woodwork gray to blend with the stones. And I'll
pull down those sheds and coops and build new ones.” He put his fingers in his vest and his chest swelled. "This can be the slickest farmhouse
in the community, once I get it fixed up." Gram grew pale as she listened to
him. "But the woodwork's always been painted white," she began, then turned and hurried away to look after her chicks. When Mr. Thurgood was gone,
Val asked Alicia to come with him to the tool house. There was a sort
of little-boy determination in his face. "There are some unopened cans
of paint in the shed. I bought too many five years ago when I painted the place. Gray woodwork will look homely with those gray stones. Mr. Thurgood doesn't know a thing about painting. He hasn't had much experience with farms. I'm sure
he'll like the woodwork painted white." He looked through tools and boxes,
baskets and gunny-sacks which had been pushed helter-skelter into the shed for four years, and emerged, dusty, yet triumphant, with the paint. Alicia helped him mix it and got a brush. Together they found the ladder and set it against
the bay window. Alcia was a great help. She handed Val things and ran back
and forth fetching and carrying. Once, her heart almost stopped when Val took something in his right hand. He doesn't know it, she thought breathlessly, hoping he wouldn't see the happiness shining in her face as she hid it beneath the soft veil of her lovely hair, but his fingers are beginning to respond to his need of them. When he doesn't think about his hand, he uses it a little.
CHE felt she had never been so happy in her life, watching this miracle happening to Val. In the evenings she and Gram sat on the porch and listened while Val worked out runs and arpeggios with his left hand, and once when he struck a wavering chord with his right. Gram's eyes filled with tears. "It's God's great work," she said simply to Alicia. As the days grew longer, a transformation took place in the land. The middle of April brought the
first rich ripples of growing things. The grass along the brook tossed greening fronds to peek into the flashing water. The buds on the trees in the orchard swelled and burst into the first white touches of blossoms-to-be.
Then, one night while Alicia and Gram were listening to the soft strains of Val's music, he stopped abruptly and came out upon the porch, standing there in the shadows so that they could not see his face. Words came haltingly, as if he
wanted to say them but was a little ashamed. "I've been thinking, Gram. Things look a lot different around here than they did when I first came. Today the farm looked almost beautiful, like it did when I was a kid." He stopped, stared
out into the shadows, and said more slowly than ever. PRELUDE TO SPRING "I've been wondering if I should sell it. After all, you like it here, and it's always been a good living for the Latimer men." The rocker Gram sat in creaked a little, and through the dusk Alicia saw the joy and wonder that flooded her faded eyes. "Yes," she said softly. "Yes, it's been a good living, and more than that, Val, it's been home." Val was silent for a long time. Then he said: "Winni's coming back tomorrow. I'm going to try to make her see it the way I do now. I'm going to ask her to stay." He swallowed quickly, and added: "I'm not going to ask her to give up her career. We're close enough to the city so that she can still sing with Hank. But this would be our home." He stepped back through the screen door and closed it softly. Alicia heard Gram's voice whispering a little prayer: "Thanks! Thanks, so much." 'Then Val's left hand swept over the keys and in another moment his right followed carefully. To Alicia the music was the sweetest she had ever heard. When Winni and Hank came back Winni jumped from the taxi and kissed Val. "Let Hank take care of the things, darling," she said, linking her arm through his. She gave Gram and Alicia a careless nod and began explaining about the club. "They were crazy about me, darling. People are hungry for music and a good time. I do hope you've been practicing your music lessons like a good little boy." Her smile was teasingly lovely. "Because I'm sure you'll make a hit with the left-hand beat." She followed him up the walk, 179 scarcely listening to what he was telling her about the paint and the plowing. At last, hearing a certain note of importance in his voice, she stopped and looked around. "It does look better, Val," she admitted carelessly, "if an old house and farm can look better. But you should see the apartment I've picked out. It's small, yet big enough to hold a grand piano. We'll both need it, you know." He did not answer as he opened the screen, but Alicia saw the old defeated look in his face. When he sat down to play the piano, he did not attempt to use his right hand. As time went by, Alicia realized with a sinking heart just how much ground Val had lost. He sat alone a good deal and the bleakness in his eyes hurt her. She found herself listening to hear his laughter, but it did not come. Winni mothered him prettily, assisting with the smallest tasks, worrying lest his hand bother him. The farm was neglected while Val banged out blue notes on the piano. Then Winni's short vacation was done, and Hank was packing his violin back into its case ready for the morning. Val was picking strains out upon the piano keys while Gram and Alicia washed up the milk pans. "Let's run through that Chopin polonaise once more," said Winni, and began the words in a low, pulsing tone. Val's left hand stumbled against a note, and she broke off angrily: "It's too lovely to spoil, Val. Try the Tschaikowsky. It's a novelty the way you do it with the left hand." "Yes," agreed Val harshly, "'it's a novelty," and Winni stared at him with astonished eyes. 180 "You say that as if you didn't like to play it," she said sharply, and burst out, "I don't know what's come over you Val, but you're changed. You don't seem to like doing my songs any more. I've tried to be kind when you missed the notes. I've tried to understand and be patient. I've tried to make you interested in a Career. But I've failed, Val. You'll never make a hit at the club. 'There's no use kidding yourself. If you could play with both hands..." She shrugged the matter away as quite hopeless, and said flatly, "Well, from now on, you've got to make up your Own mind. Do you want to be a left-hand pianist, or do you want to stay here on the farm and go to seed?" He didn't answer, and she followed Hank to the stairs. There she paused and said: "Things can still be the same if you want them to be, Val. Hank and I are leaving in the morning. If you decide to come, all you have to do is pack a bag." Her heels clicked sharply as she went up the steps. Val stood quietly in the hall until her bedroom door closed sharply. Then he went outside and Alicia heard him pacing up and down the walk. When she left to go home, he did not speak to her. A week later, he came marching along the road and entered her back door without more than a perfunctory knock. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MARCH 1946 "The pussy willows are bustin' out all over," he said smilingly. "And those sugar beets are almost big enough to weed." He took the dish towel from her hand and drew her away from the sink. Without even waiting for her to put on a hat, he led her across the meadow to the edge of the brook. There he stopped and picked up a stick. He tossed it into the water and it slipped out of sight. "1 eft-handed solos aren't treasure enough," he said, and his eyes held hers, "I want my ship to bring back something more precious." His right hand stole up and cupped her soft chin, and his eyes looked deep into hers. "Tell me that it will, Lissa, darling. Tell me that it will bring love and happiness and everything a man wants from the world." His hand came down from her chin and went about her waist, strong and firm and determined, and he waited for her words. "Yes, Val," she said softly, "Yes, my dear. He held her close and kissed her. Then he let her go and stood arm in arm looking over his land. "Soon you'll be a Latimer, darling," he said softly. "Then as long as life lasts we'll watch through the winters of life for our preludes to spring. And they'll always come. No matter what happens now, spring will always come."  LESSON Katherine Fernelius Larsen I once rebelled at humdrums; now I find It is the lowly task, well-done, that frees the mind. Thrift Begins in the Garden Vesta P. Crawford With Illustrations by Betti Williamson THE most confirmed flower ???T rower has a new thrill coming - when he starts raising vegetables and fruit. Your own radishes for breakfast, your own strawberries '1 that shortcake for dinner—it's quite a different sensation from going daily to the market, and much more satisfying both to your palate and your purse. Vegetables and fruits can be ornamental as well as useful. An apricot tree pruned to climb a wall looks quite as well as climbing ivy. Red tomatoes hanging on a trellis are quite as handsome as a lace vine. Dwarf currant bushes and gooseberries make excellent foundation plantings, and a border of curled arsley or dainty alpine strawberries is delightful. The ashen-leafed gatden sage is attractive in the rockery, Perennials GR Fruit trees 1 ESPALIER 2 ASPATAGUS| = 3StrawdeTrIEs | | 4PATSs\eyY 5Chives 6GAPIIC TONIONS 8Rhubarb scutrants wRaspberries nBlacK berries WALL and mint and watercress are beautiful edgings for the lily pool. It is surprising how much food can be produced on a small plot of ground. In the suburbs, and even in the city, if you have a space six by ten feet, or larger, you can grow vegetables and fruit. The requirements are sunshine (for at least half the day), water, if the season is dry, either by "row" irrigation or sprinkling, and a reasonable amount of cultivation, at least enough stirring of the soil to eliminate weeds and keep the surface loose. The ground should be deeply spaded and heavily enriched with old, well-rotted manure or a balanced commercial fertilizer. Your county agent or State Department of Agriculture can furnish you with detailed Annuals a yCucumbers 2Tomatoes 3cress 4Radishes SLettuce 6Beets 7Carrots 8Turnips q Peppers 10C\imbins Beans Page 18) information Teg: your locality and ment needed. Wilted flowers, st meat scraps fr all help to make more easily worked. Coars such as leaves or Ja first be used as a may be dug under. It is all a matter From the short row of to the long row of car box of herbs to the arding the soil in the type of enrichDecaying leaves, ems, peelings and om the kitchen, the soil richer and € material, wn Cuttings, may mulch and later of planning. Bunch lettuce Tots, from the asparagus bed, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MARCH 1946 it is all a matter of working out a pleasant problem. This is the most important thing to remember: Plant vegetables and fruits which wil] give the greatest yield for the smallest space. And, if you wish to be very economical, don't waste a spot large enough to grow a seed. In planning the plot use a large Piece of paper, some good seed catalogues, a stack of Magazines, and all € criticism and encouragement your family or the neighbors can give. In the first place, sketch in what you will want to do with the fence or border of your property and how you want to make use of the arbor or trellis. Here you may wish to make a decision between perennial vines, such as blackberries, boysenberries, or raspberries, and the quick-growing annuals such as beans, cucumbers, and tomato vines. It may take several years for the berry vines to produce in quantity, but annuals Sprout up quickly and can be trained to climb fences or decorate the arbor. They produce heavily and the crop will last until frost. © From the cucumber vines along a single short fence, one may make pickles for winter, and tomato vines yield many quarts of juice for sunless days. E best tomatoes for the home garden are some type of the Earliana or Farthest North, hardy varieties which mature quickly. Fora novelty which will make 4 good showing on the fence, the small yellow-fruited varieties are excellent. Try the Yellow Pear or Yellow Plum for a bounteous yield of small, well-flayored fruits that are delicious in salads and convenient for garnishing and for marmalades. The long, slender varieties of cucumbers are by far the most satisfactory for slicing, THRIFT BEGINS IN THE GARDEN ter are especially making, Fora Permanent household garden that will cedure little work, it is well IS an old-fashioned deli- 183 is required. The Victoria yields more heavily, € gardener who wants quick results will buy rhubarb Toots rather than tty his luck with slow, UNcertain seeds You May not have thought of Onions as Perennials, but jf you get the bunch, or "multiplier," Sets and take care of them, they wil] glow telish. This Plant spreads Tapidly and once started is hardy as any weed and just as P€rsistent, € secret of making the Most of 4 small garden Plot is either to Talse root 'Tops that go down deeply 184 tiful leaves that are crisp and green and full of vitamins. A succession of radishes may be obtained by following the method used by our pioneer grandmothers—each time a radish is pulled a seed is dropped into the hole. The small, bulb-shaped radishes are best for early planting and the slender white ones are more satisfactory for fall and winter use. Space should be utilized to its fullest extent, also, by setting out pepper plants and eggplants among the early radishes so that by the time the radishes are gone the other plants will be reaching their maturity. Some gardeners use the space where early vegetables have been harvested for planting head lettuce for late fall and early winter use. It is an interesting game to see what an amazRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MARCH 1946 ing succession of crops may be achieved in a midget garden. No household plot should be considered complete without a corner for herbs. These plants are divided into three groups—aromatic, medicinal, and pot herbs. If one has space to spare he may wish to raise aromatic herbs or experiment with medicinal varieties, but the pot herbs are almost a necessity. Among the best known and most commonly used are: Perennial Annual Chives Dill Parsley Sweet Marjoram Mint Sage Sweet Fennel THRIFT BEGINS IN THE GARDEN For salads, Soups, and for flavorin Meats, these herbs are Miracle work. Ets. Some Clever Cooks use differ-- Even the Frail Christie Lund Coles ITA BERNSTROM looked through the open window and knew that this was the hardest time of day to bear—this hour between light and darkness—when the earth and sky seemed luminous, belllike in their clarity. It was as if every sight and sound might break the heart—the gilt of the sun sifting through the window, the cool, dark shadow of the lilac bush across the foot of the bed. She could hear the neighbor women clanging kitchen utensils as they Prepared the evening meal. She could hear the shouts of children, the slide of their roller skates. She could even hear the gtunt of the rope as two children "pumped" each other in the back-yard swing. Men were coming home from work, dogs were barking, running after the occasional car that passed on the quiet street, sending the dust spiraling upward. She closed her eyes, listened as the radio played softly an old tune that swept over her in waves of light and darkness, waves of memories that were gay and tender. She was in a pink tulle dress, leaning backward in Brock's arms, laughing, saying, "You wouldn't fool me, would you, Mister?" dancing, whirling. Brock was smiling his one-sided smile, slowly, briefly, telling her seriously, "I'll never fool you, Rita. I love you too much. ['m going to malty you and we're going to have..." She murmured softly, "Yes. | know. We're going to have a white Page 186 house with green shutters... And five sons and maybe a daughter." His arm tightened about her and she felt his lips on her hair. And maybe a daughter! What casual words. Sons weren't so important, she supposed, not when the daughter was Eleanor—Eleanor with her dark hair and blue eyes, blue as the sky at noon, like morning glories in the sun. She turned her head on the tumpled pillows. She was terribly tired. That was strange because one shouldn't get tired just lying, just thinking.... After a moment, she opened her eyes. She heard footsteps on the porch. Through the window she could see Mrs. Smith's tall, gaunt form, her bony fingers clutching a Stay sweater about her. Rita's heart began pounding. Instinctively, she reached over to close her doot. She didn't want to see anyone. But Mrs. Smith gave a brief knock and walked in. She stood in the doorway, looking appraisingly about the room before she said, "Still down? Oh, d@r..." There was no point in reminding Mrs. Smith that she would be down for a long time yet, so Rita only repeated the words, "Still down." Then, "Sit over there, won't you?" The other woman shook her head, "No, I haven't time. I've got to get Supper going. There's always so much to do. You're lucky to be able to lie here and test. Sometimes, I think if I gave up..." She sighed 4S if words could not tell of her f. Rita & ssed her Smooth, Ictio Cheek, « 8," she told her 'Tm sorry," Said, "wha °€s remember gh ach time her the Doctor think ig Wrong?" aughter w Out to play she would "The Docto Pshaw! Edo place 8'ass of wat €side h they know" Once more she lookeg Some tiss es, her digitalis She 40ut the room ita Was aware Would say "yy you won't eed ) of the dust, of the beq's disorder. Anything unti] I come back," Then Mrs. Smith was leaving, SaySuzanne Stood back smiling Shying, "Ig there's anything I can do ly. Rita WaS sorry she had even moeyes. Her Weariness was alive Children to World on faith with a s » &Mawing unha Pr She reach d to ¢ child ang ness. She wa ted t €P,_ but Suzann € int a there were no als, not a 'Y more naturally Vapor MEIges into sun Y did th oman €, why light did anyone me, with their Curious 'You'r awful] cet," Suzan cyes. § wanted € alone, to said, Squeezing > "Tove you » shut h or, to w,. T here in the Elean 0oke Puzzled gs She stillness wh €ven pain Wasn't as asked her f;; "Wh you love?. En every grief | meet with analytic fyes. "Shall 7 Tead you the funnies?" She € heard Eleanor and her friend ° would Stop skating, Swinging, Coming in at the back door. For 2 just to ask how a sick P€rson felt o+ Tusion, Sh istened hem as Each of he Curled UP on the they discus 210 program of bed beside her hile she d, but he night before anor was Saywhen sh ad finished he did not ing, "She said ce ve, S00dbye €ep the here € tried to do Steve.' sp was j with him, Other Mghts, tellin them Bib] €n she Crashed,' " anne, the Stories or Jit le jokes She was in no Other child, added, "Yes. Said ™MOood for Her Orld had: Oodbye, 800dbye Steve,' on't strangely beco © a dark snoog shut. Get it,' " ng out the; lity of everything e bringing in the ¢vening paper. They care. WETE SO sweet each emerging into But Brock would be Coming soon 8itlhood. | ] m e - Eleanor Squeezed her tightly ang ing about his feet, He would put his hands, splash water over his face and dark hair, whistling as he did so. "Hello," he would say slowly, coming into her room, drawing the word out into almost three syllables. He would pick up the evening paper _where Eleanor had left it, glance at it, and finally, bend over and kiss her. Even after nine years of marriage it was not a perfunctory kiss. It was tender and warm and sometimes, she was sure, it said all the things, the "How are you, my dear? I hope you've had a good day," that he was too inarticulate to say. At times it hurt her that he didn't say more, ask more. Then she would remember one night when he took her in his arms and cried, brokenly, "Oh, I'm so sorry for you. So terribly sorry." She knew it was better this way. Neither saying what was in the mind, each pretending. And it wasn't hard to pretend when he was here, for something within her bubbled with warmth and elation... Especially on Sundays when he and Eleanor would prepare Sunday dinner, then bring it in on a gaily bedecked tray. Each would take credit for whatever was best, each would deny having made the lumpy gravy. FTEN, when the dishes were washed, Eleanor would come in and they would play Chinese checkers. Brock would pretend complete interest in whatever he was doing in the living room but soon he would be drawn in, would ask with his slow, one-sided smile, "Do you think you can beat me?" "Oh, I daresay," she would assure him, smiling up into his eyes, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MARCH 1946 watching him as he picked up the board, arranging the brightly colored marbles so they could all three play until she was tired and forced to sink further into the rumpled pillows. She knew she was lucky to have Brock, but there were times, like this, when she was overcome by a horrible, clawing ache. She resented this frail body with its great weariness, its swift heartbeats. She even resented him and his kindness. She didn't want him doing her work, having the neighbors pity him. She turned her head to the wall and@let her eyes travel for the unnumbered time up the pink wall paper, trace the white flower upon it. Brock had papered a few months ago. He thought it would make lying here easier. But already there were smudges on it where Eleanor touched it when she crawled into bed with her after her daddy left in the morning. She sighed as she heard Brock's car in the driveway. Now, the game would go on. He would pretend he didn't mind having a wife who couldn't measure up to the name. She had been gay and _ vivacious when he had married her, though not as strong as some women because of an old heart ailment. But she had kept the house, taken care of things until after Eleanor's birth. Then, she had gradually grown more tired, less able to make her ener, teach... Until the collapse. She recalled the small, intent doctor telling her she would have to have complete rest for at least a year, maybe longer. She remembered telling Brock, "Some people in the world would make quick work of my kind of per- EVEN THE FRAIL son. They don't let them hang on and suffer." He had looked at her "Don't be silly." But it was true, and perhaps, it was better. Suddenly, she put her hands over her eyes as her mind's shutter opened on the picture of a little girl, her beautiful little daughter. Each day, almost each time she came into the house she called to her mother immediately after opening the door, called and waited. If there was no answer she called again, an urgency, a fear in her voice that, please God, should never have been there. Darkly, ROCK seemed slower in coming to her room. It seemed more of an effort for him to take his eyes from the paper and kiss her. And as he bent down, she saw new lines about his mouth, lines put there, no doubt, by worry and unhappiness. She asked him, through force of habit, "How is everything at the plant?" "Fine," he assured her, not noticing her preoccupation, the look in her eyes. Then, "what would you like to eat?" "It doesn't matter," she said quietly. It didn't matter. It would probably be the same as always, meat and potatoes, string beans or carrots, canned fruit from the basement. What would she like, really? Creamed chicken on toast, shrimp salad, something green and crisp and appetizing, something cool and light. He left her room and shortly afterwards she heard Gloria at the back door, Gloria Ross, the neighbor girl who came in on Saturdays and helped with the cleaning. "Hi" she greeted Brock now, "how'd you like me to come and help get supper?" "Fine," he assured her, "you said you would some time. I'm getting tired of my own cooking. Not that it's not good, mind you." Gloria laughed, "Oh, I'm sure it is delicious." She was soon rattlin pans in the small, bright kitchen, the kitchen Rita loved with its crisp white and red curtains, the huge bay window which caught both the morning and the afternoon sun. She had so loved working there, baking on cloudy days, ironing. They talked of the good weather, Gloria's school work. Then she squeeled, "Turn on the radio! Har. Ty James! And is he the stuff?" After a second she went on, "Or can Mrs, Bernstrom stand it?" "She doesn't mind," Brock assured her, stepping into the other room to snap the radio on. Ordinarily it wouldn't have bothered her, but tonight it seemed the jive music was pounding upon her. But she didn't speak of it. She reached over to close her door and as she did so, she could see into the kitchen, could see Gloria holding out her dress, doing a little dance step as she told Brock, "This is getting in the groove." ITA could see the smile on Brock's face, the youngness there that she hadn't seen in a long time, too long. The thought came to her and she couldn't get it out of her mind— that he might care for Gloria. After all, it could be. She was young and vivacious, all the things his wife had left behind. And she couldn't blame him. It didn't matter. She was in 190 a place apart from them, a place with a closed door between. She heard a car door close outside just as Brock and Gloria were taking out her dishes. Brock said, "I guess that's Peter. I met him yesterday and he said he was coming out." Rita brushed at her hair with fluttering hands, "Why didn't you tell me?" she asked. "T guess I never thought of it," he answered casually, "I'll let him im." loria hurriedly gathered up the paper on the bed saying, "Til fix these then beat it through the back door." As Gloria slipped away Rita heard the voice of her husband's brother. He was successful, immaculate, somewhat condescending. She knew where his sympathies lay. And why not? Why shouldn't he pity Brock with his nose to the grindstone, paying doctor bills, growing old before his time. Once more she wanted to close the door, but Brock was bringing him in, he was asking how she felt, saying cheerfully, "You're going to be all right." "Of course," she agreed. Course." Just like that! After a few more words the two men went out and she reached over and closed her door quietly. She wouldn't need to see him again since it was an agreement between her and her husband that when it was shut she did not want to be disturbed. She thought she could sleep, but sleep was for those who were at peace, those who were weary from work or play. She heard the two brothers step out onto the front porch. She heard "Of RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MARCH 1946 Eleanor talking to her dolls in her own room. The spring evening was sweet and still. Through the open window she could have heard the two men talking but she didn't listen, she didn't want to listen until she heard Brock say, "How is Erma?" Erma was Pete's wife. She was everything that Rita wasn't, "disgustingly healthy," she described herself. Impervious, and beautiful. Peter answered, "She's fine I imagine." Then, "I seldom see her. She's forever at this luncheon or that club." "War work, too, I suppose," Brock went on. She was amazed at the irony in Peters voice, "Erma? Don't be funny." Brock told him that she, Rita, had written many letters to soldiers, and knit a couple of sweaters. He was trying to justify her lying here, she thought. Peter said, "She doesn't look too well. She's lucky to have you." Her husband didn't speak and she held her breath as she waited. She heard him laugh shortly before he disagreed, "Oh, I don't know." He seemed to be trying to find words and she thought: Now, all the bitterness and tiredness and resentment will come out. After a moment, he said, "No, Peter, she's not especially lucky. I'm the lucky one. She's so darn sweet. She has taught me a lot of things." After a moment, he went on hesitantly, "You know, Pete, if we were all strong we wouldn't ever need fight a defensive war. In many countries they 'take care' of the weak, put them out of the way, here, we fight for them, for the right of EVEN THE FRAIL even the frail to live and do good in their own way. Who knows, it may be a farther-reaching good than that of the strong." Suddenly, her nails dug into the flesh of her palms, they were wet with perspiration. Peter laughed good-naturedly, almost enviously, "Then I suppose you are both mighty lucky." Brock agreed, "Yes. I think we're ALL mighty lucky. Just living in America is really something." There was no tiredness in his 191 voice, no bitterness, just the honest goodness that was Brock. He wasn't sorry for her. He thought she was lucky, AND SHE WAS. She was. She turned her face to the pink wallpaper and lay very still looking at it, at the gray smudges. Tears, good, healing tears filled her eyes, spilled on her cheek. She reached over to the closed door, opened it wide, calling as she did so, "Eleanor, darling, don't you want to come in and say your prayer by my bed?" SHE HANGS THE LINEN ON THE LINE Dott J. Sartori Here is snow impervious To March's melting weather. Here is white unsullied as An egret's flowing feather. Here, in intermittent drifts, In cities without number, Are hung the linens of the land, Companions of our slumber. Here will snow shine glacier-clean As long as there shall be A home and need, and one who smooths A pillow tirelessly. The Best Little Shrub Mabel Harmer LINE MORTENSEN arose A briskly from the luncheon table and started putting leftovers back in the refrigerator. "What's the rush, Mother?" asked her husband mildly, teaching for another of the fresh, sugar-coated doughnuts, "are Tidwells having another remnant sale?" "It's my day to go visiting teaching and—Henry!" she exclaimed, stopping short in the midst of sclaping the jelly dish, "that's at least five doughnuts! Is that what you call watching your waistline?" "You shouldn't tempt me," he sighed. "T'll start cutting down tomorrow—I think. What was that song you were singing a while ago?" "Oh, something I heard at Church the other day, It goes like this: If you can't be a pine on the top of the hill Be a shrub in the valley, but be The best little shrub by the side of the rill Be a bush if you can't be a tree. That's all I can remember. I just thought it sort of fitted me. I've always been the shrub type—never had any big positions in the Church like Emmaretta and some of the others. She's been put in the Relief Society stake presidency now, you know. I guess being a visiting teacher is about as high as I'll ever get." "Well, you're a pine around this house," said Henry gallantly, as he pushed back his chair, "and don't let any of those female women keep you talking until you're late for dinner." "Don't you ever think of anything but eating?" sighed Aline, taking off her kitchen apron and hanging it in the broom closet. "Sure. Right now I'm wondering if I have time fora ten minute snooze before I have to get back to work." "No. But take it anyway or you'll be worrying about it all afternoon. Shall I wear my navy dot this afternoon or the rose print? Isn't it nice to have two dresses so that you can choose between them?" "Wear the rose, of course," answered Henry, breaking his yawn in the middle. "If you're going to be a shrub you might as well be a rose shrub. And don't forget to come home. When you and that Janet Meeks get together—" "Janet can't go today," said Aline, bustling off to the bedroom. "I have to go alone." "Well, don't forget to come home anyway. I get mighty lonesome while you're making up formulas for the Wilkins baby and reading to old Sister Ballard." "Why, Henry," chuckled Aline. "You know that I don't do that very often." "No, just once a month," he answered drowsily. ALF an hour Jater Aline, fresh as a June morning in her rose print and white linen hat, was hurrying down the street. "I do hope that Retta Hubbard has good news of her grandchild by now," she mused, "and that Ellen Crabtree has decided to try and get along with her THE BEST LITTLE SHRUB mother-in-law. Dear me, it's always something and it's so hard to decide just how much I can do without going too far." As she turned onto a neat walk, lined with brilliant petunias, she added, "I wish that everyone was as nicely settled as Daphne Rhoades here. A pretty new home, a fine young husband and a darling baby. I'll just peek in here for a minute and then hurry on." *¥ * Daphne Rhoades sat staring across the luncheon table with unseeing eyes. The sound of a back door as Rod had slammed it shut barely registered on her consciousness. A door crashing was nothing when her whole world had just gone to smash. This was most certainly the end. There was no use trying to make a go of it any longer. She might just as well get out and find a job now while she was still young and had only one child to support. Mentally she rehearsed the bitter scene that she and Rod had just been through as if trying to convince herself that it had really happened. Within ten minutes after he had come home for lunch she had known that something was wrong when he failed to go in to the baby or mention the scones which were his special favorite. Pausing by his chair, she had laid down the plate with the piping hot scones and, tweaking his ear playfully, had said, "All right, out with it. Have you quarreled with the boss or lost that wallet I gave you for Christmas?" "Tt's worse than that," he had answered heavily. "Sit Daphne. I night just as well tell you first as last. Uncle Steve came in down, 193 this morning to see me. He's in an awful jam. Aunt Marty's just had an operation and he had to have three hundred dollars for the hospital. 3 told him how it was with us but—" "Qh, Rod!" she cried. "You didn't give it to him? Not again!" "But Daphne," he pleaded, his eyes looking tragically old in his young face, "what else could I do? He had to have some money and there wasn't another soul he could turn to." "He'd have had to turn somewhere else if you hadn't given it to him," she answered stonily. "Everyone else comes first with you and it's your own family last. You know how badly I want this house. And we've worked so hard to make that down payment. When I think of how I've scrimped and saved—one nickel at a time—to get that three hundred dolJars and then you hand it over without even asking me. Now Jones will sell it to someone else." The first of the hot tears came, to be followed by many more. "There wasn't any need of asking you," said Rod tonelessly. "He had to have it. And he'll make every effort to pay it back." "He may have the best intentions in the world but it will be the same story over again," she retorted. "Your father intended to pay his back too, when he got the money for that extra piece of land." "But he will, just give him time," interrupted Rod. "Two years is quite a bit of time," said Daphne icily. "And then your sister had to have the next bit to go to New York." "But Jed only had a week's furlough and maybe it's the last time 194 she'll ever see him. I couldn't refuse —not my own sister," he pleaded. "Don't I know it?" she snapped. "And now here it is again. And not even one of your own family. Next you'll be handing out our savings to every acquaintance that comes along and happens to be in a tight pinch and I never will have a home of my own or any security. Well, I'm not going to stand for it. I'll get out and earn my own money and keep it where your relatives can't get their hand's on it." It was at this point that Rod, white-faced and shaken, had risen from the table, without ever having touched his lunch, and gone out of the house, and now Daphne, in her agitation, sat rocking the baby and giving vent to her angry thoughts and emotions by talking aloud to the baby. REALIZING, half unconsciously, that she would have to act quickly while her resolve was supported by anger, she set the baby down in his crib, brought out a couple of suitcases and started to pack. She was interrupted by the ringing of the doorbell, and hastily dabbing a bit of powder over the tell-tale streaks on her face, she picked up the baby and went to the door. She drew a quick sigh of relief when she saw that it was Sister Mortensen, the visiting teacher. She was such a pleasant, understanding soul. Just the sort of person to whom she could tell her troubles—if she knew her a little better—or if this were the sort of thing that she could tell to anyone. "Do come in," she said, opening the door, and while her guest was being seated she smoothed the RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MARCH 1946 baby's clothing and her own feelings at the same time. "T love to come here," said Sister Mortensen, sinking down intoa large chair. "It's such a delightful room. I believe you said that you were thinking of buying the house." "Yes—we were thinking of it," replied Daphne, a bit unsteadily. "But I'm afraid we've changed our minds " now "Oh, dear! I do hope that you aren't going to move away," exclaimed Aline. "I'd be terribly sorry to lose you from my district. It's such a pleasure to know a fine, normal young family like yours in these days of change and divorce." "Yes," agreed Daphne hesitantly, "there is more divorce now than in your day, but perhaps times are different—perhaps there is more reason for it now." "Bosh, child, times are no different and people are no different. I guess there've been mighty few couples that it didn't take a lot of stamina and forgiveness and just plain intestinal fortitude to stick a marriage out—what with _ taxes, measles and plumbing repairs always cropping up at the wrong time." "But not you, I'll bet," ventured Daphne with a smile. "You look so good-natured and even-tempered that I imagine an'. Earthquake wouldn't upset you." "Yet, even I ran home to my mother once," she returned with a chuckle. "That is, I went part way before I realized how silly I was behaving and turned back. And it was all on account of a sick dog that Henry brought home and was nursing on my best satin living room pillow. I still want to laugh when | THE BEST LITTLE SHRuB 195 think about It but I was Plenty upset be tearing his hair out jg I'm late at the tim getting home p njoyed visiting Daphne took off the baby's Shoes th you again," 80 that he could le his toes lux "Thank YOu, it's be nice having unously d, lowered €s, you Call," Teturned D as she asked, "But there are times—don't Walked with her guest + € door you think, when 4 Couple js Justified The Nute j¢ Closed she In S€parating?" Tushed back to the b om and put "Per 4PS, On very rare Occasions MMy in his cx with such violence ut, my 800dness, wha 4 Woman, 0 that he Sent fo Protesting niek er, will €n she lifteg her h If-fille Suit. Sve up for what IS called 'freedom,' Case to the cedg Chest and Started to all the love and heartach » JOYS and unpack, J Only a Matter of sorrows, that g0 into the aking of a minutes before } T dresses Were once full life The person ho hasn't h d more hanging the closet and other 4 chance tg Petience some of the things rety d their Toper Cartaches has Missed g Wwonderf,] Places in th dresser drawers Chance for growth." "It's a 800d thing that I didn't 'Tm sure Oure right," Said have time to Pack your stuff, uster," Daphne, quietly pattin Jimmy's 9. She said h th dorably Plump little Je ere | L s Pushed the Other Suitcase out of sight, ith that #¢complished, ME€ssage,"" sai Aline, sud. D denly diving j t €n floor or dig u i 4 patch of the aCK yard before you to Nd, not the giver Nor the do anything diculous nd don't sift, but need and joy € person orget," she continy Who is to 5 the Tecipient of one's love and good ull The baby gurgled happily and — then went back ¢ ini e; Pink toes. Daphne Walked aphne, dropping her head to the dressing table and brushed her baby's So that Visitor Wouldn't soft... ) Gainsborough Painting, and Henry Pretends to * Re & y 196 Aline glanced hastily at her watch as she came down the walk from the away generous Pieces, Don't that's the celery—or lettuce, What RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—Marcy 1946 kind of an afternoon did you have? Any hing new on the beat?" "On the distri e commented, han Ng Over the Paring knife. T a pine, Darling, Just a she reminded him with q PATTERN Eleanor Welch Schow I Father, the world Is filled with Pain and Woe, y night the terror walks; € hearts of men wax Y day; gaunt hunger 5 he weak den, the orchards be d In gorgeous colors blend cold; the aITOw flies talks Ith grasses &teen, like orient Carpets spread t PATTERN II Over a hundred years ago, a Prophet called A smal] assembly, gathered in Christ's name To do the deeds of loving charity That everyone must do who dares to claim Christ as a brother, He revealed to them A plan, a call to women to unite In loving kindliness and sisterhood To help the erring find the Path of right. This way they passed along the stretch of years And grew in strength and knowledge every day; Today, one hundred thousand members march In strength of womanhood. This is no wraith Of something that has been; this sisterhood Has shown the world one hundred years of faith! The hearts of these fail not in times of stress, But bravely show the weak the way to cope With sin; they nurse the sick and aid the poor, Supported by one hundred years of hope. The lamps of loving kindness ever burn Behind them on the trail with clarity, To show the path their steady feet have trod, Throughout a century of charity, III Dear God, forgive the selfish ones who hoard their food While hungry children cry; Forgive the petty stores of pretty silks, €n men must chill and die. Help us, as they, along the ways of want To let our light so shine That all may see and glorify thy name! May we true Christians be; Give us the eyes to see, the will to show Unfailing charity, To leave for all who follow through the strife This pattern along our path of life. 197 And For Eternity Olive Woolley Burt CHaPTER 10 (Conclusion ) HE spring days floated by as lightly as almond blossoms, each one filled with the perfume of growing things and the sweetness of spring breezes—but each one bringing closer the day when Alec's and Jim's leave would end. Now Alec begrudged the hours that Delsa spent with Jeff Holden's children. "Don't go over there tonight, Delsa," he would beg. "I've such a few days left. Let's go riding up to our boulder." Sometimes she would listen to his pleading and would barely glance in on the children and then would hurty home, slip into her rodeo pants and plaid shirt, saddle and bridle Blue Star, and meet Alec. 'Then they'd ride, galloping along the road, cutting across the brush-covered flat, urging their horses up the steep canyon paths. Delsa liked these afternoons best of all, because while they were riding Alec looked almost completely happy. Of course, when they stopped, he was bound to look gloomily into the future, but often she could think of places to go that were far enough away so that they had no time for these pensive talks. At other times Delsa would have to stay at Jeff's till quite late, taking care of the youngsters, soothing Mrs. Reeder's ruffled spirits. Davy, though still a baby, was almost more than the tactless and inexperienced woman could handle. Page 198 Delsa understood what was wrong with the little boy—no, not wrong with him—but what caused him to act as he did. It was spring. The warm air invited the youngster to come outdoors and play. And he would answer that invitation, playing until he was too weary to mind what he was told, too utterly worn out to obey even the simplest com-- mands, and Mrs. Reeders commands were not always simple. Then again, the spring thaw made many fascinating mud puddles, and Davy could not keep his hands and feet out of the inviting mixture. 'T'his made extra work for his guardian, and extra work meant irritability. So, very often when Delsa went to the little house she found Davy in tears, and Mrs. Reeder scolding. It took time to bring order out of this chaos, and Delsa would forget that Alec was waiting impatiently while she bathed the little boy, gave him warm supper, and got him into bed. Trudy, still too young to make the mischief her brother made, and yet old enough to care for herself a little, was a different kind of worry to Delsa. Mrs. Reeder would put the baby in her pen and leave her alone for hours. Because she was a good baby and happy under most circumstances, she was left alone too much, and Delsa could think of hundreds of accidents that might happen to the child. The truth was, Delsa admitted to Alec one night when he was scolding her for neglecting him, the children AND FOR ETERNITY were becoming so dear to Delsa that she hated to be away from them. She might chafe at the responsibility that included keeping Mrs. Reeder happy, but the care of the children was sheer pleasure. BETWEEN Jeff and Delsa had risen an icy barrier of reserve. Jeff seldom came into the house while Delsa was there, but as it was planting time and he had his farm to care for as well as his job, his staying outside until after she left was excusable. At school he talked to her quietly, friendly enough when there was soething that had to be said; the rest. Of the time he left her to herself. One afternoon Alec was waiting outside the schoolhouse when Delsa came out on her way to Jeff's. "Listen, Delsa," he said eagerly, "let's saddle the horses and ride down the valley this afternoon. Jim's been telling me about an old Indian that lives out about four miles and I want to see him. A real Indian! I don't know why no one ever told 22 me about him before! "Old Chickup!" laughed Delsa. "I guess no one thought he was worth telling about. We never even think of him." "Jim says he has a wonderful collection of authentic arrowheads. I do want to see them, Delsa. Let's go. Youcan show me the way." Delsa shook her head. "I'd love to, Alec, but I can't tonight. I promised Davy that if he'd be a good boy today I would show him how to make windmills like the first graders. I can't disappoint him." "You can disappoint me, though," 199 Alec said sulkily. 'Look, Delsa, you'll have those kids to tend as long as you want them. I think Jeff Holden has imposed on you long enough. He can hire someone to tend his kids for him and not tie you down this way all the time. Tell him you're not coming tonight." "Tt isn't Jeff's fault that I go over there, Alec," Delsa said soberly. "I really think Jeff would be glad if I didn't have to come, but I do have to. He can't get anyone else. You know for yourself how busy everyone is. "Don't I, though!" grumbled Alec, and added angrily, "If I could have found anyone else to show me, I wouldn't have bothered you, knowing that you'd rather play nursemaid." "You're being childish, Alec," Delsa said quietly. "T've really got pe) to hurry! "Well, hurry then; nothing's stopping you!" he answered shortly, and turned and walked swiftly away. Delsa felt as if he had actually slapped her, and her face burned with anger and resentment and shame as she ran down the road to Jeff's house. Davy hadn't been a good boy, she found when she entered the house, and Mrs. Reeder, exasperated beyond her forbearance, had taken matters into her own hands. Delsa found Davy sobbing as if his heart would break and when she went to pick him up she cried out in anger and surprise. He was tied to the table leg with a short length of rope —tied so tightly that the rope cut into his fat little middle, obviously hurting him. Delsa's hands were shaking as she 200 undid the rope, and, with the child in her arms, went to the kitchen to face Mrs. Reeder. D=ELS4: was so angry that she took no pains to hide her feeling, and Mrs. Reeder, evidently chagrined at the justice of Delsa's complaint, took refuge in her old challenge. "You ain't my boss, Miss Delsa, and you can't talk to me that way. I got along all right with Jeff till you came buttin' in, and I don't aim to stand and listen to you any longer. I'm quitting!" She grabbed her shawl from its peg and threw it over her head and walked majestically out of the house. Delsa sat down in the kitchen rocker and held Davy close. She had butted in. And now she had lost Jeff's only help. Well, there was nothing she could do about it just yet, though she would have to find a way to make things right later. She comforted Davy and picked up Trudy from her play pen to find the baby wet and cold and unhappy. Delsa set to work in her usual brisk way and almost forgot her anger at Mrs. Reeder and at Alec as she held the tiny body close and whispered _ comforting words to the whimpering child. She was so busy that when she heard the door open she thought only that Jeff had come in. She started in surprise when she heard Alec's voice, "Delsa, I'm sorry. I've come to apologize." "That's all right, Alec," Delsa said. "I suppose you do think it's unnecessary for me to put so much time in over here, but if you only knew the truth of it! If you only knew Mrs. Reeder!" RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MARCH 1946 Alec came across the room, and Delsa was so absorbed in her task that she didn't think how strange it was for the marine to be using Jeff's house so freely. "Where's Jeff?" Alec asked, and Delsa said without looking up, "He's outside, plowing, I guess. I hardly ever see him," she added, scarcely knowing she did so. Delsa put the last spoonful of mush into Trudy's mouth, wiped the baby's face and hands on a damp napkin, untied her bib, and sat back in the low rocker to cuddle the little girl for a moment or two before putting her into her crib. Alec stood above her, looking down, smiling in a queer sort of way. "You look like a madonna, sitting there, Delsa," he said huskily. Delsa laughed. "T don't feel much like one. I have been so angry—I've scared Mrs. Reeder clear away, and I'm afraid it's for good." She rose and carried Trudy into the bedroom and laid her down gently. "Go to sleepy-bye, darling," she whispered, and turned to leave the room. Alec had followed Delsa in, and now he said, putting his arms about her, "Delsa, darling, now the kid's asleep, you can break away, can't you?" Delsa drew back sharply, saying, "Don't, Alec!" He looked at her and anger began to burn in his eyes again. '"What's the matter?" he asked gruffly. "What's so horrible about me putting my arms around you? I've done it often enough, haven't ir' AND FOR ETERNITY DELSA had been surprised at her own reaction. She had never before felt the dislike toward Alec that she felt at that moment. It was almost as if he had asked her to be unfaithful..... Delsa caught her breath at the thought that had sprung into her mind. She looked up at Alec and the wonder of her discovery gave a special glow to her eyes. "Delsa!" he cried, forgetting his anger in the radiance of that look. "Please go, Alec!" she said, and there was such finality about the request that Alec turned slowly, unquestioningly, and left the house. Delsa went into the kitchen. She wanted to sing and dance. She caught Davy up from the chair where he had been busy making his pinwheel, and held him close, kissing him. Then she set him down again, took Mrs. Reeder's abandoned apton from the nail behind the door and set to work to get Jeff's and Davy's supper. Davy laughed in delight at her. "You look funny in that apron!" he said. 'You look like a—a—",, he couldn't think of a word. "A good old witch!" Delsa said, laughing back at him. "A good old witch that's going to get supper now for Davy and his daddy. Do you want to help, Davy?" It was growing dark in the kitchen and Delsa lighted the kerosene lamp, smiling to think that Jeff's house was so old-fashioned. Then she remembered that it was off the main line and she thought, as soon as the war's over, he can have a line run up here, I guess. Davy was putting the knives and forks on the table and Delsa was at 201 the stove with her back to the door when Jeff came in. She heard the door shut and turned, but she was in the shadow and Jeff hardly looked at her. Davy ran to his father. "Daddy! Daddy!" he cried, "Aunt Delsa's here. She's getting supper! I'm helping her!" Jeff turned then, and looked at Delsa, as she stood there in front of the stove with Mrs. Reeder's apron almost hiding her. "Delsa!" he said "What's the matter? Where's Mrs. Reeder? Delsa thought his voice was harsh, and her own voice caught a little as she went toward him. "Oh, Jeff! I'm so sorry! But I got angry at Mrs. Reeder and she left—for good, I'm afraid." Jeff looked at her blankly. "Tll help, Jeff, until she comes back or we find someone else. That's why I stayed tonight to get your supper. It's all ready." She was trying to appear nonchalant, calm, but there was a strange radiance in her heart. Jeff turned without a word and went into the bathroom to wash. When he came out, Delsa was leaning over Davy, putting some hot scrambled eggs onto his plate. She straightened up, the serving dish still in her hands. Jeff stood just inside the doorway. He looked at her with such a strange intensity that Delsa set down the dish she was holding and went across the room and stood in front of him. "Delsa," Jeff said quietly, "I appreciate all you have done. But you had better go now." His voice broke suddenly. "I can't bear to have you here like this and not—" 202 GUDDENLY his arms went around her and he was holding her tight against him. He bent his head, pressing his lips against her hair. "Delsa! Delsa! I love you so! I can't bear to have you near me and know that you do not love me!" Delsa lifted her face to his and the same wonder that had dazzled Alec an hour before now shone out, unafraid. "But I do love you, Jeff! Oh, I do!" Jeff's arms dropped to his sides and he leaned back against the door frame, as if he needed some support to steady him in what he was going to do. | "No, Delsa," he said firmly, "you don't love me. You feel sorry for me, maybe, and I know you love the children—but not me!" Delsa put her hands 6n his shoulder, lifted herself on tiptoe, her lips raised. "Kiss me, Jeff! Kiss me, and you'll know that I love you—truly, deeply, as a woman should love the man she marries." Unbelief stood stark in his eyes as he whispered, "You don't mean— you can't mean—" "Jeff, listen. You need so much convincing. Alec was here a little while ago. He put his arms about RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MARCH 1946 me, here in your house, and I felt so alarmed—I thought to myself, it is just as if he had asked me to be unfaithful to my husband—because I was thinking of you, Jeff, though I didn't know it. I do want to marry you, Jeff—I've loved you so long only I didn't know it, Jeff! I didn't know it!" Jeff didn't need any more convincing. His arms went close around her, he kissed her uptumed face and she answered his kisses and he knew then that her whole heart was his. And Delsa, standing in the circle of his arms, feeling Jeff's kisses, was at last content. Gone were her doubts and fears, her anxiety over what others might say or think. There was only Jeff—Jeff and the babies, and later, of course, other babies of her own. This was what she wanted, above everything else in life and in etemity. Her hands went to Jeff's head, felt the soft, thick hair, pressed his head down toward her. Her lips were on his. They were oblivious to everything but this moment of surrender. Then Davy ruthlessly startled them, crying, "Supper's getting cold, Aunt Delsa! Come 'n eat!" Laughing, hand in hand, Delsa and Jeff went to the table and sat down in the circle of light from the little lamp. — CALL OF SPRING Beatrice K. Ekman Over the sodden fields, the March winds blow, And dormant seeds within the wet, cold sod, Long under cover of the winter's snow, Stir, as the warm sun sends its rays abroad. Soon now we'll hear again the sweet refrain Of mourning doves' soft cooing in the lane. _ OFS. Lady-inWaiting Marguerite J. Griffin HE little old lady was so small T and slight that she hardly made a swell in the bed covI wondered what I would say to her, meeting her for the first time this way. Her granddaughter whom I was visiting would not let me leave until. I had seen her. "For she will not be with us long, you know. She is very old, almost ninety-five. She isn't sick. Her body is just wearing out, becoming weaker and weaker. There isn't much for her to do, just waiting like this, and she has always loved people. Seeing you will brighten her whole day." This suggestion did not make me happy. I dreaded going into her room. I had always thought old age at best was a tragic time of life. And now to meet a human being who was just waiting for her mechanism to stop functioning, who was waiting for death to walk in at her door— But there was nothing I could do. I couldn't refuse if I might brighten one last moment. But how? What should I say to her? I had worried needlessly. I realized that the moment I saw her bright brown eyes twinkle at me from the wrinkled parchment of her cheeks. They told me at once that within her frail body was a spirit very much alive and alert. Her hands upon the counterpane were almost as white as the cover, and transparent so that the blue veins were plainly visible. Her hair was white like soft wavy strands of silk, a little scanty, but gently circling her face. She patted the locks in place as her bright eyes looked up at me eagerly. A smile scattered the wrinkles into new places but filled her countenance with a warm glow. "Sit down, my dear." Her voice was a little thin and tremulous. "I'm so pleased to meet you. You look so full of life. I bet you have children to care for." "Yes, three of them. But sometimes I don't feel so full of life." "They are wearisome, the little ones. But it's the happiest time of your life. Still, I don't know. All of life is good. I've seen a lot of it, too, my dear. And there's nothing quite like grandchildren and greatgrandchildren, and even great-greatgrandchildren. Oh, I'm very old, you know. I've seen a lot of things, a lot of change." Her voice faded away as if her thoughts were traveling faster than she had the power of speech to convey them. Then suddenly she started on another subject. "Jenny," she said to her granddaughter, "show the lady my new dress." A new dress at her age, in her bedridden condition? It was fantastic. Was there vanity still left, after all these vears, in this little gnarled creature? Jenny brought it as if there were nothing unusual in the request. It was white silk crepe, dainty with lace. I know astonishment was on my Page 203 204 face, for the old lady said: "It's my burial gown, you know. And ['ll be wearing it soon." THE words were so gentle I couldn't gasp, but my heart was beating fast. It was the strangest thing I had ever seen. A beautiful gown like a bride's, and the little old lady positively anticipating the wearing of it. "Show her the rest, Jenny. The slip and the stockings. "You seem surprised. Maybe you hadn't thought the resurrection would be such a practical affair, but it will. There is no death really, only a change, a separation. The spirit leaves the body until the morning of resurrection." I could see why she could be so calm with a philosophy like that. I could see why her granddaughter was so sweet, so patient in her attentions toward the old lady. "It is a beautiful belief," I said. "Not a belief, my dear, but a truth." Her words were calm and quiet. She was not filled with the fire of a fanatic, but she was sure of her convictions. Besides, I didn't want to argue with her. I envied her peace of mind, her assurance. "It's a wonderful story, the story of man," she went on. "It's the story of change and progression, and we must be ready for each new thing. We lived before we came to this world, you know. Before this world was built. Our spirits were sons and daughters of God our eternal Father, and we lived with him." There was a soft glow on her face. Her eyes were mellow almost as RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MARCH 1946 if the vision were before them, or, as if being so close to death, to returning from whence she came, she caught the gleam and could remember. Then she looked at me quickly, as if sensing my thoughts. "It's all in the Bible, you know. It's not something I've made up. It's there, but the world tries to explain it away. Man thinks he is so great and, being a son of God, he does have a noble heritage. But can he hope to understand the business of our Heavenly Father any more than a child can understand the works of his earthly father? A toddler cannot comprehend how his mother makes cookies, but he accepts them, none the less, and munches upon them happily. So should we eat of the Bread of Life. So should we accept it, without worrying about how it will be accomplished. God has spoken. That should be enough. Jenny, hand me my Bible and my glasses." HAT! Could this little shrunken creature still use her bright eyes to read? What a blessing when she loved the Book so much! You could tell the gentle way she handled its worn pages. You could tell she had spent a lifetime reading it, for she found her passages with ease. "Listen to the words of the Lord to Job: "Where wast thou when I laid the foundations of the earth? Declare if thou hast understanding.' " Her sharp eyes peered at me over the spectacles as if she were challenging me to answer. "When the morning stars sang together, and all the sons of God shouted for joy,' we were there LADY-IN-WAITING and we were that glad over the earth the Lord was building for us." She closed her book and removed her glasses. "But time is short, my dear. We are born, we live and grow, and just as we reach our prime, when our mental powers are at their best, our bodies wither, wane and die. It is as Paul says." And now she was quoting her scripture from memory. If there be no resurrection of the dead, then is Christ not risen.... And if Christ be not risen, then is your faith vain.... If in this life only we have hope in Christ, we are of all men most miserable. But now is Christ risen from the dead, and become the first fruits of them that slept..... For he must reign, till he hath put all enemies under his feet. The last enemy that shall be destroyed is death..... Then shall be brought to pass the saying that is written, Death is swallowed up in victory. O death, where is thy sting? O grave, where is thy victory? I was speechless. I, who had come in to brighten an old lady's moment, 205 had found it was she who had so much to give. She misinterpreted my silence. "But I'm sorry. I've tired you with my preaching. You must forgive ime." "Oh, no. I must thank you very much." For even then I knew I would never forget her. What a triumph to gtow old so gracefully, and even in her weakness be a source of strength to all who came her way! When next I saw her, and it was not very long after, she lay in state, daintily gowned in the dress whose beauty was its purity of color, its simplicity of style. Every lock of her white hair was neatly in place. Her hands, unadorned save for a heavy gold wedding band, lay quiet and at rest. Death had softened her features as if it had been welcome. No bride ever looked more lovely. It was as if she slept ever so gently, just waiting for her Master's voice to bid her rise. Oa SPRINGTIME IN THE WEST Lydia Hall Bright spots of heaven shining through The petals of a blossomed tree, A greening field whence, throbbing, comes The lark's loud song of ecstasy; The changing crimson of a hill Agleam with rain and flowers bright, A well-loved river's wide expanse Reflecting shadows and the light; The scented fingers of the sage Upon the desert's sunburnt breast, The pulse of life and loveliness, And springtime comes again—out West. 'SX FROM THE FIELD Margaret C. Pickering, General Secretary-Treasurer Regulations governing the submittal of material for "Notes from the Field" appear in the Magazine for February 1944, page 104. MESSAGES FROM THE MISSIONS (Continued) Finland District, European Mission HE following excerpts are from a recent report from Europe sent to Elder Thomas E. McKay: "The acting Mission President, Elder C. Fritz Johansson and Elder Claus A. Person from Malmo, accompanied by Sister Astrid Johansson, a representative from the Mission Relief Society Board, made a journey to Finland August 7, 1945. "Journeyings in Finland are at present very fatiguing on account of heavy railroad traffic, worn-out equipment, engines and cars being in repair, and facilities at hand being far below the needs. 'The crowding of cars forced our party to stand up one whole night. "However, to the good and faithful saints in Larsmo Branch, situated close to Jacobstad, it was a great joy when the travelers arrived August 10, at 5:28 a. M. A special meeting was held on Saturday, the 11th, under the direction of the acting mission president. The first Relief Society in Finland was organized. A glorious spirit reigned, and often our thoughts turned to the day when the first Relief Society in the world was organized by the Prophet Joseph Smith. "The Spirit of God Like a Fire is Burning' was sung and prayer Page 206 was offered by Elder Claus A. Person, after which 'If the Way Be Full of Trial Weary Not' was sung. "Acting Mission President C. Fritz Johansson thereupon greeted the saints present and Sister Astrid Johansson spoke of her appreciation of the opportunity to come to Larsmo to assist in organizing a Relief Society. She invoked the guidance of the Lord upon all present and explained that the purpose of the Relief Society organization was to help and to serve the members and our fellow men and to disseminate light and sunshine in a dark and dismal world. "The following points were discussed: 1. The fundamental aims of the Society. 2. The proper organization, president, counselors, and secretary. 3. The duties of teachers. 4. Meeting regulations. 5- Manuals. 6. The use of the help fund. 7. Reports and yearly dues. 8. Dressing the dead. G. Unity of board members. 10. The slogan: 'And above all these things put on chanty, which is the bond of perfectness' (Coloss. 3:14) was read. "Sisters were thereupon appointed to the different offices in the organization they had just completed and NOTES FROM THE FIELD were set apart in the branch meeting the following day. All expressed their joy and appreciation for the privilege of working in the Lord's cause, knowing that if they sought God in prayer, he would assist them and the work would go forward. Elder Berg said this was such an organization as they had been longing for, and he appreciated the visit of the mission authonities. "Be Ever Glad, Ye Daughters of Zion' was sung by Sisters Viola and Inga Ronnkvist, Vera Numan, and Georgina Back. Elder Claus A. Person spoke on the work of the Relief Society, a labor of love which will be written in the Book of Life. "Acting Mission President C. Fritz Johansson was the final speaker. He referred to the important event when. The Prophet Joseph Smith in the name of the Lord turned the key for this Society. Brother Johansson wished the sisters success in their work. The meeting closed with singing 'O Lord, Let Me Come to Zion's Land' and the benediction was pronounced by Elder J. Viktor Berg. All felt that the spirit of God was present in rich abundance and our hearts were filled with thanks to God for our membership in his Church. Besides the authorities from Sweden, those present were: Branch President J. Viktor Berg and the First Counselor Anselm H. Stromberg. The following were appointed to preside over the Relief Society: Sister Anna Stromberg, President; Sisters Johanna Soderholm and Inez Ikalainen, First. And Second Counselors, respectively; Viola Ronnkvist, Secretary-Treasurer; Inga Ronnkvist, Assistant Secretary; Sisters Georgina Back and Inez Ikalainen to act as teachers in Jacob- 207 stad, and Sisters Lena Renlund and Viola Ronnkvist to act as teachers in Larsmo." North Central States Mission ANN J. KILLPACK, President of the North Central States Mission, reports a mothers' and daughters' banquet, a social, and an old folks' party: MOTHERS' AND DAUGHTERS' BANQUET BILLINGS BRANCH "As a fitting climax for the year's Relief Society activities, sisters of the Billings Branch met together May 29, 1945 at a mothers' and daughters' banquet at which more than a hundred were in attendance. One of the oldest mothers present was Sister Mercy Elery who was a convert to the Church four years ago. This dear sister is very faithful in Church activity and many times has expressed her joy and gratitude for having been privileged to live long enough to find the true Church of Christ. She is now making plans to go to the temple to take out endowments. "Relief Society officers, Lucy Call Taylor, President; Johanna Sanderson, First Counselor; Edna B. Collins, Second Counselor; and Mary Grebe, Secretary, feel very grateful for the fine spirit of co-operation manifest among class leaders and fellow members. A great deal has been accomplished through this combined co-operation of the sisters. Visiting teachers have been very active and have awakened active participation among a large percentage of the branch membership. A_ Singing Mothers' group is very active and has contributed much toward musi- RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MARCH 1946 BILLINGS (MONTANA) BRANCH RELIEF SOCIETY North Central States Mission, Mothers' and Daughters' Banquet Photograph submitted by Ann J. Killpack, President, North Central States Mission Relief Societies. Cal entertainment, and the branch organization attained placement on the honor roll of The Relief Society Magazine. All of this has been accomplished through combined effort and co-operation which is the spirit of all true Latter-day Saint women." MOTHERS' AND DAUGHTERS' SOCIAL "The ladies of the Minneapolis Branch Relief Society entertained at a mothers' and daughters' social Wednesday, June 27, 1945. An invitation to attend was also graciously extended to the fathers and sons. The crowd was delightfully entertained by a program of poetry, dancing and music. Later they re tired to the recreation room where a tasty luncheon was served, and some danced to polka music. This was especially fitting as most of the members are from Scandinavian countries. "This social terminates what has been a very successful year of Relief Society activities. The sisters are especially proud of a rummage sale which they recently held. This sale netted them a profit of $103.84. All of the goods sold was donted by the sisters in the branch. A willingness to serve is manifest by all, and this is the true spirit of Relief Society work." OLD FOLKS' PARTY MINNEAPOLIS BRANCH "The ladies of the Minneapolis NOTES FROM THE FIELD Branch who were over sixty years of age met together at the North Central States Mission Home, March 22, 1945, for an afternoon of renewing friendships with sisters in the gospel. Ten of the thirteen women in attendance were converts. Most of them had heard the gospel in foreign lands and had given up friends, family, and all they held dear there to join the Church and come to the land of Zion, yet none of them felt that the sacrifice was too great, for through the gospel, they have learned to know real joy. They are happy in the knowledge that they have found the true Church of Christ. These sisters have been very faithful in Relief Society and other auxiliary work and are very regular in their attendance RES Sg OM... Fl 209 when the weather and their health permit. "An afternoon's entertainment and refreshments were provided by President William L. Killpack; his wife, Ann Jane Killpack, Mission Relief Society President; and missionaries Norma Baldwin, Marjorie Yeates, and Caroline Stucki." Northern California Mission MARY S. ELLSWORTH, President of the Northern California Mission Relief Society, reports: "Salinas, like twelve other branches in the mission, is doing all it can to assist the priesthood in obtaining money for a new church building. I think throughout the mission that they all realize how much better 4 MINNEAPOLIS (MINNESOTA) BRANCH RELIEF SOCIETY North Central States Mission, Old Folks' Party. Standing, left to right: Ellen Johnson, Helen Novak, Betsy Holm, Eliza Stevens, Mary Swenson, Ingborg Malmgren, Laura Servold, Gunda Larsen. Seated, left to right: Emily Titze and Olive Larson. Photograph submitted by Ann J. Killpack, President North Central States Mission Relief Society. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MARCH 1946 Pope creer agama « ao 4 a "Se — a 4 7" me "ly SANTA ROSA (CALIFORNIA) BRANCH RELIEF SOCIETY Northern California Mission, Singing Mothers. Front row, left to right: Judith Lindelof, First Counselor, Santa Rosa Branch Relief Society; Agnas Gross, President; Ada May Wilson, Second Counselor, and Pearl Ferris, Secretary-Treasurer. Center row, left to right: Effie Christian, Martha Fisher, Mary Corl, Mabel Shick, and Anna Lindgren. Back row, left to right: Jessie Stubbs, Grace McPeak, and Mary Sanders. Photograph submitted by Mary S. Ellsworth, President Northern California Mission Relief Society missionary work can be accomplished with a church of their own. As President German E. Ellsworth said, "The hall is not a church. The meetings held in it seem to be just group meetings. All are determined, as soon as the priority is lifted, to have money ready to do something toward their own church building. "The sisters of the Salinas Branch gave a dinner, charging $5.00 a plate, and they were enabled to clear $215. During the summer months they are having a luncheon at each other's homes, taking their husbands and whoever else will join them, charging them fifty cents each and the other day they cleared $40." Sunderland, Durham (British Mission ) MARGARET WALKER of Sunderland, Dutham, England, NOTES FROM THE FIELD 211 SALINAS BRANCH RELIEF SOCIETY, NORTHERN CALIFORNIA MISSION, Building Fund Dinner given by the Salinas Branch Relief Society, March 17, 1945. Photograph submitted by Mary E. Ellsworth, President Northern California Mission Relief Society writes a summary of conditions in own, and, we hope, are progressing. The Relief Society of her district: The sisters appear to be receiving "In spite of war conditions, our The Relief Society Magazine more Relief Societies are still holding their regularly now." We protest earnestly and with determination. We protest existing policies which encourage the consumption of liquor, with all the far-reaching consequences of that consumption. We protest the expansion of the liquor traffic and its freedom from the reasonable restrictions which would contribute to reconversion. We protest the use of thousands of tons of raw materials in making intoxicants. —Deets Picket, from The Voice, December 1945. Ze Work Meeting = ——— Save Shose Precious Scraps 6sT)yON'T throw away your tiny print scraps until you have seen this quilt pattern," says Sister Ivie H. Jones, Relief Society President of the Spanish American Mission. "Whether it be called a 'String Quilt Block,' because it uses those long, narrow wedge-like strings from the side of skirt gores, etc., or whether it be called "The Scrap Bag,' "The Four Point Star,' or 'Economy Quilt Block,' it is a very practical way to use those tiny, irregular scraps that are too precious to throw away and yet too small to cut up into other types of quilt blocks. In fact, the smaller and more irregular the scraps, the prettier the finished quilt will be. It really might be called the 'Prism,' for the octagon wheel, made of the print scraps, looks pretty much like a prism of different shapes, sizes, and colors. "Making this quilt is especially suitable as a Relief Society project, since the sisters can work on the blocks at home and be assured that they will all be the same size when finished, and that is quite an item. But it is like seeing the Carlsbad Caverns or the Grand Canyon. No one can properly explain its beauty. You'll just have to see it for yourself." Materials Needed: Sufficient wrapping paper to cut forty squares, 1314x1314". (Newspaper is not satisfactory. ) Two yards plain colored material or two dyed flour sacks. However, the pattern adjusts itself nicely to any material on hand. Two yards will make strips 2" wide. 114 yards makes strips 114" wide, etc. Two feed or flour sacks (or mulsin) for the stars. Scraps of material. Page 212 WORK MEETING PAPER STEP NO. 1 Cut 40 squares of paper 1344" x 131%". Be accurate. This makes a quilt 72 x 90 inches finished. METHOD STEP NO. 2 Fold in half and cut on dotted line. Each triangle is a block. FOLDED MUSLIN STEP NO. 4 Fold muslin or flour sack (for stars) lengthwise. Press exact, fold again making six or eight folds, depending on width of muslin. FOLDED MUSLIN A STEP NO. 5 The width of the folded muslin (a-a) determines the width of the pattern for the star A-A. Use a ruler and mark with pencil A-C, leaving the width of one seam between C-C. STEP NO. 7 Place pattern No. 6 in exact center, mark with pencil. Fold pattern in half, reverse ends and utilize all material No. 7. 213 7 7 7 7 7 7 £. STEP NO. 3 Fold in half again and crease at dotted line in order to get star in exact center of paper triangle. STEP NO. 6 Star pattern made from Step No. 5. STEP NO. 8 Now tear plain colored material or dyed flour sacks into strips lengthwise. If you have 2 yds. Material, make strips 2 in. Wide. If 1/2 yds., 14 in. Wide, etc. 214 STEP NO. 9 Pin muslin star onto paper, being sure star is in exact center of paper pattern. STEP NO. 12 Sew a scrap of print material as in No. 10. Fold back. Press and cut off to paper pattern. If strip is too wide, cut it down. Narrow. Uneven strips are prettier. There is a knack in removing the paper. Next to the stitching and paper can be easily removed. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MARCH 1946 STEP NO. 10 Stitch on machine, over paper, a strip of plain colored material, being sure to sew in the edge of muslin star at the same time. '/ STEP NO. 11 Fold back and press. Trim to fit pattern. STEP NO. 13 Sew another strip of print on in same manner Material can be on straight or bias so long as seam stitching itself is straight. LY STEP NO. 14 Completely fill both points with prints. Trim off to paper pat- 'tern. Start at the point, take hold 2, By x xX 2. STEP NO. 15 Sew triangles B-D together, matching plain strip. Sew triangles E-F together Sew from X'to Y prarap y TENS OS serattnanstcantrantnk SA BACSACDSACINC yy, x ot a vas ' c fs K um RPOSEU RPP STEP NO. 16 Sew these large blocks together, making the quilt 4 blocks wide and 5 blocks long. This makes 12 full octagon '"'prisms," with half prisms on the edge. MARCH PROMISES Aileen M. Overfelt March winds are blowing, High, clear winds of spring, Mysterious with promise— Adventure on the wing. Promise of a primrose Blooming on a hill, Promise of an orchard Filled with robin's trill. Best of all, the promise In a woman's heart, To greet a man's returning From a foreign port. Voices in the high wind, Blow across the sea, Take this message to my love, "T will wait for thee." Page 215 216 Welcome Moon Handicraft Gift RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MARCH 1946 NEW THINGS Belle Watson Anderson I like new things in spring, Such as tiny bows of blue The violet weaves into rosettes With beads of shining dew. I like new things in spring, Such as soft, pink eider down The apple blossom uses To make her petaled crown. I like new things in spring, Such as yards of willow laces Orchard fences use for veils To hide their wrinkled faces. Berore You BUY A BIBLE Look for the National trademark. It identiShop Make Your Selection For WEDDING, BIRTHDAY and GRADUATION GIFTS ® ® * Hand-hammered Copper Unusual Quilts Infants' and Toddlers' Clothes Original Design Bookends Water Colors Many other handmade gifts of distinction fies a well made book with helps that are really helpful— regardless of the edition you select. KING JAMES VERSION National BiBLes SINCE 1863 AT YOUR BOOKSTORE When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine bSrigham oung University is proud of its many ALUMNAE Who Serve As Officers And Teachers In The RELIEF SOCIETY SPRING QUARTER begins March 25 M: U's'IT-C SPECIALLY SUITABLE FOR RELIEF SOCIETY I LOVE A LITTLE COTTAGE (O'Hara) se 5 FLAG WITHOUT A STAIN (White) BLESS THIS HOUSE. 15 GOD IS LOVE (Shelley) - al ALICE BLUE GOWN (Tierney) _....20 PEACE I LEAVE WITH YOU (Roberts) _.. A ae.) 0) Above numbers in octavo. Less 10% discount plus postage. We specialize in L. D. S. Church music. Also carry large stock for schools and home use. Dealers in Steinway and Lester pianos, band and orchestra instruments, talking machines, records and musicians' supplies. DAYNES MUSIC CO. We solicit your patronage 47 So. Main St. Salt Lake City 1 price of only... 44 East South Temple LATEST COMPLETELY REVISED EDITION BARTLETT'S FAMILIAR QUOTATIONS Edited by CHRISTOPHER MORLEY and LOUELLA D. EVERETT Priced regularly at $5 through many printings, this beautiful eleventh edition, with twice as many quotations as heretofore, is offered at the very special "Everyone who puts words on paper for others to read, everyone who speaks to an audience, even though it be an audience of three, needs 'Barilett.' "' ORDER YOUR COPY NOW! DESERET BOOK COMPANY "The Book Center of the Intermountain West" P. O. Box 958 et Salt Lake City 10 When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine U. S. POSTAGE 2c Paid SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH PERMIT No. 690 Prepare for Life' of Years by investigating in a Beneficial Retirement Income Policy. INSURANCE COMPANY HOME OFFICE——BENEFICIAL LIFE BUILDING SALT LAKE City 1. UTAH GEORGE ALBERT SMITH. PRESIDENT THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE April Monthly publication of the Relief Society of the Church of JesusChrist of Latter-day Saints RELIEF SOCIETY GENERAL BOARD Belle S. Spafford - - - President Marianne C. Sharp - - - - - First Counselor Gertrude R. Garff - - = - - Second Counselor Margaret C. Pickering -. - - - Secretary-Treasurer Achsa E. Paxman Anna B. Hart Florence J. Madsen Blanche B. Stoddard Mary G. Judd Edith S. Elliott Luella N. Adams Evon W. Peterson Priscilla L. Evans Leone O. Jacobs Velma N. Simonsen P. Nibley Leone G, Layton RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Editor - - - - - Marianne C. Sharp Editorial Secretary i - - - - - - - Vesta P. Crawford General Manager - - = - = - - - Belle S. Spaftord Vol. 33 Contents SPECIAL FEATURES "Concerning Jesus of Nazareth": 219 An Aria for Easter The Infallible Spirit Our Number One Enemy—Cancer Vesta P. Crawford 229 Etta Mai Scott 237 Opinions on Alcohol Utah Division American Cancer Society 245 Selected 254 Magic Word Mary Ek Knowles 255 Digging For Happiness Elizabeth Adamson 260 Between the Dusk and the Dark Alice Whitson Norton 264 A Floral Symphony Betti Williamson 266 FICTION Faith Is a Heritage—Chapter I There Is Truth The White Picket Fence Emulating Grandmother The Scar Christie Lund Coles 233 Eva Willes a 238 Sarah O. Moss 256 Linda S. Fletcher 269 Martha Robeson Wright 275 GENERAL FEATURES. Editorial: ''Patient in Spirit'': Marianne C. Sharp 250 Congratulations to President Smith. 25} Notes to the Field: Relief Society No Longer to Share in Use of the Evenings of the Stake Quarterly Conference Sundays Notes From the Field: Messages from the Missions (Concluded) eneral Secretary-Treasurer, Margaret C. Pickering 279 POETRY Olive M. Nicholes 217 secestesensereeeeee-l VY Houtz Woolley 220 _.... Genevieve Van Wagenen 225 vecsareceecssesvscseesnesceesesenenteets lsDott J. Sartori 228 once Ruth H. Chadwick 232 Anna Prince Redd 236 senwensillRebecca Merrill Ostler 244.. Jo Adelaide Stock 253.. Katherine Fernelius Larsen 259 Return of Se Penis Springtime Knol Father, Forgive Them.................... When He Returns, Remembering........... When the Choir Broadcasts Aftermath 000 The Merrill Locust Tree - Voice of Cumorah................. Apple Tree in April. Spring Sonnet Gene Romolo 285 God Must Love the Beautiful... Mabel Jones Gabbott 286 PUBLISHED MONTHLY BY THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY Editorial and Business Offices: 28 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City 1, Utah, Phone 3-2741. Ex. 243. Subscription Price: $1.00 a year; foreign, $1.00 a year; payable in advance. Single copy, 10c. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving both old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts. MAGAZINE CIRCULATION, 74,000 APRIL 1946 Before the Dawn Echoes of Hope Sixty Years Ago Woman's Sphere Work Meeting: Let's Make Dickies Offerings... Spring Shadows No. 4 Alice Morrey Bailey 221 Marguerite { Griffin 226 248 Ramona W. Cannon 249 287 Etta S. Robbins 274 Elsie E. Barrett 274 Beatrice K. Ekman 278 THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE RETURN OF SPRING Olive M. Nicholes Orion waves his jewelled sword on high And marches onward with the frosty stars; Fair Venus rises in the evening mists And hangs her lantern in the April sky. The crocus stirs beneath the frozen clod, The river slips its crystal barricade; The warm earth stirs and lives and breathes again And pours its bounty in the hands of God. The pale narcissus blooms in dappled shade, Blue violets embroider woodland trails; Among the pussy willows by the brook The veery flutes his vernal serenade. Why should I tremble when the planets swing Their sure, celestial pathway through the stars, When blighted gardens and the frozen hills Pass on to blaze a trail for fragrant spring? Though mankind barters for his brother's soul— This do I know, if all the world forgets, That the eternal mind of man shall move With certitude, unhurried to its goal. The Cover: "Desert Roses" from a photograph by Dr. Walter P. Cottam VOL. 33, NO. 4 APRIL 1946 "ON THE WAY To EMMAUs" Tom a Painting by Plockhorst "Concerning Jesus of Nazareth" 6¢ A ND, behold, two of them went that same day to the village called Emmaus, which was from Jerusalem about threescore furlongs. And they talked together of all these things which had happened. And it came to pass, that, while they communed together and reasoned, Jesus himself drew near, and went with them. But their eyes were holden that they should not know him. And he said unto them, What manner of communications are these that ye have one to another, as ye walk, and are sad? And the one of them, whose name was Cleopas, answering said unto him, Art thou only a stranger in Jerusalem, and hast not known the things which are come to pass there in these days? And he said unto them, What things? And they said unto him, Concerning Jesus of Nazareth, which was a prophet mighty in deed and word before God and all the people: And how the chief priests and our rulers delivered him to be condemned to death, and have crucified him. But we trusted that it had been he which should have redeemed Israel: and beside all this, to day is the third day since these things were done. Yea, and certain women also of our company made us astonished, which were early at the sepulchre; And when they found not his body, they came, saying, that they had also seen a vision of angels, which said that he was alive. And certain of them which were with us went to the sepulchre, and found it seven so as the women had said: but him they saw not. Then he said unto them, O fools, and slow of heart to believe all that the prophets have spoken: Ought not Christ to have suffered these things, and to enter into his glory? And beginning at Moses and all the prophets, he expounded unto them in all the scriptures the things concerning himself. And they drew nigh unto the village, whither they went: and he made as though he would have gone further. But they constrained him, saying, Abide with us: for it is toward evening, and the day is far spent. And he went in to tarry with them. Page 219 And it came to pass, as he sat at meat with them, he took bread, and blessed it, and brake, and gave to them. And their eyes were opened, and they knew him; and he vanished out of their sight. And they said one to another, Did not our heart burn within us, while he talked with us by the way, and while he opened to us the scriptures? And they rose up the same hour, and returned to Jerusalem, and found the eleven gathered together, and them that were with them, Saying, The Lord is risen indeed, and hath appeared to Simon. And they told what things were done in the way, and how he was known of them in breaking of bread. And as they thus spake, Jesus himself stood in the midst of them, and saith unto them, Peace be unto you. (Luke 24:13-36) SPRINGTIME KNOLL Ivy Houtz Woolley God's carpet is a springtime knoll. The Master Weaver's best, A garden pattern on display, Superb from foot to crest. Aglow with green—bedecked with buds, And sunshine gleaming through, A mindful skill this carpet shows Beneath the sky's cool blue. My carpet is a springtime knoll, Bloom-spattered meads my shrine— I worship in this lovely place, This house of God's—and mine. 220 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—APRIL 1946 Before the Dawn Alice Morrey Bailey There is an hour of darkness in the night Beyond reflected rays of yesterday, Too eatly yet to catch the coming light Refracted from tomorrow' s newest rayhour is just PS ore the dawn, ght was the culminating pom is more matter of Mg night when their long figh was to and day, more than a certain num be given he test— ether this new ber of hours ch of light and dart medicine ould work on humans aS "and to shed the light of hope into might meat death. The darkness of despair. They fed him an ounce of pure 7 couragement \f-doubt at the medicine in with hypodermic, an soundless falling of cate ully built waited—One hour; two hours Noth structures © ho d jar with this form of darkness. Banting, 2 obscure Canadian docA different type of "darkest hour" often comes to one who has was in his Jaboratory at the Univer paid too high a cost, and, having at sity of Toronto. With him were tained it, finds that it;. Dust and two ne was Charlie Best, ashes im hs hands. In this category his faithful helper through months are all who forfeit morality, virtue, a wee ¢ grilling research, OF honesty for people, possessions» ot nights of sleeplessness: and days of causes—things that may seem 1) an nxie Je they had ursued an of themselves to be fine nd desit elusive life-saving th that ha able. Come to Dr. Banting in 4 flash of inAnd yet "The leopard never spiration during the night of Octochanges his spots," 15 3 human docber 30, tw years before. The other tnine, foreign to the teachings of One man was Joe Gilchrist, Dr. Bantwho died between two thieves. Ing's deat friend, who was dying the Those who have gone beyond, the Page 22\ 222 moral boundaries are most in need of the helping hand. They have lost the power to discern tight from wrong; they are most dependent upon the clear and unselfish thinking of others, after floundering in a Se4 of confused values. Creative people are particularly prey to moods of exhilaration or despondency, S° much so that fits of "temperament" are expected of them. Perhaps itis because emotion is an integral part of creativeness, and emotion ls by turns a flatteret and a depressant, but never a Te liable pair of spectacles through which an artist may view his own creation. Robert Louis Stevenson, at Sherryvore, Bournemouth, England, once wrote feverishly for three days on a new story that had come to him in a dream—ten thousand words a day, while the household went about masterpiece, ished, called his wife and her son, Lloyd Osbourne, sn and read them the manuscript with an intensity that made shivers Tun UP and down Lloyd's spine. When Stevenson came to the end, gazing Up at them in triumph and self-satisfaction, waited for the outbreak of enthus!- asm from his wife, whose fine powers of criticism and analysis he relied upon. "Robert, you have missed the whole point," she said. "You've missed the whole allegory." angry, Lloyd trembling from the room, and his mother in tears to her apartment. Ee * *. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—APRIL 1946 RIGHTEOUS indignation at un just treatment is justifiable, but it is effective only when something can be done to relieve the situation, to undo the wrong: Henry Collins Brown sat in the hopelessness of an insane asylum contemplating suicide. He felt that death was a doot behind which were the mental door; that he had the power to tum it, with every reason to do so, and no good reason not to. He had lost his lifework. He had formerly been curator and founder of the Museum of the City of New York, into which position he had put the best years of his life. He had fought for the preservation of valuable historical relics, for a home in which to collect and care for them. He had delivered many learned lectures and solicited funds for the cause. For many ye" he had strug: gled against the indifference of people until he had accomplished his He knew that, whether he lived or died, the museum was established and the work would go On, It was then that the Museum officials decided he was too old for the job—he was sixty-five—and removed nim, supplanting him with a "popinjay" from the West, who had nevet seen New York, and who affronted the cultivated patrons of the institution. Dr. Brown went down un der the weight of these injustices an from overwork. He believed there was nothing left to live for; it was too late to start over again, and this seemed to be the end. BEFORE THE DAWN These are isolated pictures of seemingly different human crises, but they have some things in common, as all human beings have certain things in common. As mortal beings, all people are subject to disappointments and even defeats which are inevitably to be met in one form or another during our sojourn upon the earth. The bottom drops out of the bucket of hope. Nature betrays the young; death assails security. Each man may look at his neighbor with envy, thinking he sees a man with no burdens, no problems. The soldier returning with the loss of an eye or an arm does not see spiritual death, mental and moral cripples, in the physically whole. The beautiful dreams of aspiring souls—peace, brotherhood, wise parenthood, unselfish love and religious perfection—are more often ideals to strive toward rather than realities which are ours. Nevertheless, they must be striven for, because they can be achieved, and simply, too, by obedience to divine and eternal laws of truth. "He that loseth his life shall find it," said Jesus. Death was not the end for him, but a new and glorious beginning. The morning of the resurrection was sweet and fair. The brightest hour in human history was when Mary, stooping to peer into the tomb, saw the empty linens of death, the angels robed in white at the foot and head of the tomb, and when Jesus revealed himself to her, asking: "Woman, why weepest thou?" (John 20:11-16). The Son of Man was not only personally victorious over the great enemy of life on earth, he laid a pattern through death to life again that every mancan and will follow. 223 Moreover, the words of his wisdom, that fell some two thousand years ago on the ears of herdsmien and farmers, high priests and moneychangers, are still the patterns of wise living, and in no less measure applicable to men of today.... "And ye shall know the truth, and the truth shall make you free," he told them (John 8:32). X Ke K CHARLES Banting had been doing just that—seeking the truth to make men free. His story might well have ended on that night of September 11, 1922. The short time and sparse materials allotted to him for his research had been used long since. Any day now he would be dismissed by the more important heads of the institution, who had no patience with his harebrained idea anyhow. His thoughts were dark with discouragement as he boarded the train to go to his home. He didn't know that he had left too soon, that, back in Toronto, Charlie Best was saying: "Let's have another go at it, Joe," and that Joe was breathing much better, that suddenly, after months, his head was clear again and his legs had lost their heaviness—that he was able to eat a good supper, after which he took a stroll, grinning and "walking on air," as he put it. By the time of Banting's arrival at his home the news had been telephoned, and Banting was given the message that freed millions from death by diabetes—for Banting had discovered insulin. So narrow is the margin between success and failure! So small is the 224 moment when the heart touches bottom and wavers between disaster and the will to go on! Robert Louis Stevenson brooded for three days over his disappointment in his wife's verdict. Finally, he called her in, told her he had accepted her judgment, and, over her tearful protests, threw his feverishly written manuscript into the fire. If he tried to mend it, the result would be a patchwork of good and bad, he declared, so he was going to write it over! He wrote steadily for three more days, 10,000 words each day, and the tenth day after he had begun it, he sent off to the publishers the manuscript, replete with significance and rich with allegory, that lives to this day as one of the greatest stories ever to come from the pen of an author—Dr. Jekyll and Mr. Hyde. * ee * '<T can forgive, but I can't forget," is another fallacy humans cling to, though it is entirely foreign to the gospel of "seventy times seven." Dr. Brown, now gone down the long hall, beyond reach of human influence or the written word, reached toward the knob of suicide on the door of death, and, as he teached, he learned some eternal truths, notably that lack of controlled thinking had put him where he was, and that self-control was the only road back. He took that long way back, slipping many times, losing ground that had to be regained. With part of his mind "mislaid," the rest of it RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—APRIL 1946 went on functioning. He observed his fellow inmates and analyzed their difficulties. After three years at the Bloomingdale Hospital, Dr. Brown was a member of the free world once more. He carried with him a message of hope and encouragement from the most hopeless of all worlds, the world of the insane. He delivered lectures and gave verbal encouragement to hundreds who were in danger of losing their minds. At the age of seventy-five, his book A Mind Mislaid was published, a book particularly helpful to those subject to nervous breakdown, for in it are constructive truths that he learned at the doors of selfdestruction: No matter how hard it is, one must forget, and once having forgotten, it is not hard to forgive. There is absolutely no virtue in repining; there is positive harm and real danger in thinking back to what might have been. The gentle gospel of the Master of "Beginning Again" contains all the essentials of joyful, successful living, and his words about faith, repentance, and forgiveness—peace, and brotherly love—are not platitudes, as we sometimes regard them, but hard and fast rules by which men must live, or come to the grief of war, failure, self-destruction, and even the destruction of others. Despair and discouragement are the tools of evil, and they are too much at hand in the darkest hour. April, with its returning life, holding, as it does, the resurrection of the Savior, is truly an especial time for new beginnings. It is the bright morning after the dark night of winter.. Echoes of Hope Marguerite ]. Griffin HERE is peace in the scriptures, and purity of thought, poetry of form. There is poise for the perplexed, paeans of praise for the joyful, prophecy for the student, prayer for the tormented. There is strength in the scriptures, and sustenance for the soul, satisfaction for the heart. There is hope for a happier day, to which the anxious soul may cling as a weary bird to a haven of safety and refuge. Then read, O ye people who are weary and heavy-laden! Read the pages in which there is life, in which there is hope and strength, in which there is peace, the "peace which passeth all understanding," the peace that must first be born in the human heart before it can permanently live in the world of men. The kind of peace that alone can heal the bitter wounds of war, that alone can eliminate racial hatred and prejudice, that alone can make all people feel their brotherhood, their kinship. It is the peace that God, the Father of mankind, waits quietly to implant in the seeking heart. Though today the world suffers with the aftermath of war, I can find peace when I read the sacred word. I can keep that peace as a wall of strength about my vulnerable soul, only as I remember, only as I live by those words. I am weak. The winds of confusion, of fear, of pestilence, of death; blow hot upon my citadel. They 'scorch my defenses. They roar with terror in my ears. I must retum Page 226 again and again, and yet again, to the well which is never dry. I must drink cooling draughts from it, else I cannot bear the heat of this perplexing day. Over and over I must remind myself, as King David did long years ago, that "the Lord is my shepherd; I shall not want." There is solace in this song because it rings with an answering echo from the spoken words of the Man of Galilee whose sojourn among men, though brief, can never be forgotten. His lips spoke gentle comfort to all men everywhere. His words were meek and kind and understanding. His life was lived to fulfill his Father's will and was offered on the cross because of his great love for you and me. Think upon him for a moment, how he lived only to give the world one great message, the simple story of love, love of God and love of all men. The world listened. The world remembered. But the world has never wholly heeded the precept. Yet the memory of this Man has endured and will always endure as long as there are souls who love truth and freedom—as long as there are yet those who will read his words. Sit in the quiet of your room. Shut yourself in with the quiet precepts of this Jesus of Nazareth. Or, if your world has been blacked out, if all is dark around you, if your eyes have for the moment lost their vision, or if your Book is not at hand, let your heart repeat the ECHOES OF HOPE Christian's universal creed: "The Lord is my shepherd; I shall not want." You know the words. Let them peal with the solemnity of sweet-toned bells, and before the sound of each line shall have died away, like an echo, you can hear the words of the Son of God, speaking again, as he did so long ago, words of assurance, words of hope, words of peace. Listen! You can hear them even now. THE LORD IS MY SHEPHERD; I SHALL NOT WANT. I am the good shepherd: the good shepherd giveth his life for the sheep. But. He that is an hireling, and not the shepherd, whose own the sheep are not, seeth the wolf coming, and leaveth the sheep and fleeth: and the wolf catcheth them, and scattereth the sheep. The hireling fleeth, because he is an hireling, and careth not for the sheep. I am the good shepherd, and know my sheep, and am known of mine. As the Father knoweth me, even so know I the Father: and I lay down my life for the sheep.... My sheep hear my voice, and I know them, and they follow me: And I give unto them eternal life; and they shall never perish, neither shall any man pluck them out of my hand. My Father, which gave them me, is greater than all; and no man is able to pluck them out of my Father's hand (John 10: 11-15; 27-29). HE MAKETH ME TO LIE DOWN IN GREEN PASTURES: I am the door: by me if any man enter in, he shall be saved, and shall go in and out, and find pasture (John 10:9). HE LEADETH ME BESIDE THE STILL WATERS. Whosoever drinketh of this water shall thirst again: but whosoever drinketh of the water that I shall give him shall never thirst; but the water that I shall give him shall be in him a well of water springing up into everlasting life (John 4:13-14). HE RESTORETH MY SOUL: I am the resurrection, and the life: he that believeth in me, though he were dead, yet shall he live (John 11:25). HE LEADETH ME IN PATHS OF RIGHTEOUSNESS FOR HIS NAME'S SAKE. If any man will come after me, let him deny himself, and take up his cross, and follow me.... For what is a man profited, if he shall gain the whole world, and lose his own soul? Or what shall a man give in exchange for his soul? For the Son of man shall come in the glory of his Father with his angels; and then he shall reward every man according to his works (Matthew 16:24-27). YEA, THOUGH I WALK THROUGH THE VALLEY OF THE SHADOW OF DEATH, I WILL FEAR NO EVIL: FOR THOU ART WITH ME; THY ROD AND THY STAFF THEY COM.- FORT ME. Fear not, little flock; for it is your Father's good pleasure to give you the kingdom (Luke 12:32). Are not two sparrows sold for a farthing? And one of them shall not fall on the ground without your Father. But the very hairs of your head are all numbered. Fear ye not therefore, ye are of more value than many sparrows (Matthew 10: 29-31). And, lo, I am with you alway, even unto the end of the world (Matthew 28:20). THOU PREPAREST A TABLE BEFORE ME IN THE PRESENCE OF MINE ENEMIES: THOU ANOINTEST MY HEAD WITH OIL; MY CUP RUNNETH OVER. If the world hate you, ye know that it hated me before it hated you. If ye were of the world, the world would love his own: but because ye are not of the world, but I have chosen you out of the world, therefore the world hateth you (John 15:18-19). SURELY GOODNESS AND MERCY SHALL FOLLOW ME ALL THE DAYS OF MY LIFE: AND I WILL DWELL IN THE HOUSE OF THE LORD FOREVER. 228 In my Father's house are many mansions: if it were not so, I would have told you. I go to prepare a place for you. And if I go and prepare a place for you, I will come again, and receive you unto myself; that where I am, there ye may be also (John 14:2-3). And then, like a benediction, I think I hear him praying, as he did when his life was so near its end, praying for you and for me. Holy Father, keep through thine own name those whom thou hast given me, that they may be one, as we are.... I pray not that thou shouldest take them out of the world, but that thou shouldest keep them from evil.. O nghteous Father, the world hath not known thee: but I have known thee, and these have known that thou hast sent me. And RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—APRIL 1946 I have declared unto them thy name, and will declare it: that the love wherewith thou hast loved me may be in them, and I in them (John 17: 11, 15, 25, 26). O hear, all ye people! Hear and remember the words of the Man who has redeemed you with his blood. Hear and understand the message in this greatest Book of books. Hear, not alone with the ears, but with the mind, the heart, the soul. Hear and be comforted! Hear and be strong! Hear the words that speak of life eternal, the words that tell of hope, glorious and tnumphant, of love, deep and everlasting. Hear and know! When there is hope for the future, there is strength for today! WHEN HE RETURNS, REMEMBERING Dott J]. Sartori After he has known suffering— This lad in khaki, in navy, in white— The thunder of hate, the rapier of greed, The heat and cold intemperate, After the white sheet of mercy is laid Cool and quiet across his wound, He will remember the Testament Where love was kindled and hate disowned. He will loose Christ from the printed Book, He will bring Easter against the tomb, When he returns, remembering, Back to this city and to this room. An Aria for Easter Vesta P. Crawford "I know that my redeemer liveth...." (Job. 19:25) HE greatest words in all the world, the most magnificent music—this has been said for almost two hundred years by the millions who have heard the faultless aria from Handel's Messiah. Particularly, in a time of change and uncertainty, it is not surprising that so many Christian people are finding new beauty and new strength in this Easter message. The words carry the simple, eternal beauty of scripture, "I know that my redeemer liveth, and that he shall stand at the latter day upon the earth...." In these phrases there is no faltering, no question. Here is truth for the ages, for all who have doubted, for all who have believed. The music is a treasure that glows with brighter radiance through the years. Who was the matchless musician, the man Handel, who wrote this lofty and sacred music, who touched the utmost heights of composition? In the year 1685, a boy was born in Halle, Germany. His father said at once, "This child must be a lawyer. The shape of his head shows that he will have a great mind." His was a great mind, but not destined for the practice of law. Per. Haps, if he had become a lawyer, his name might long ago have been forgotten. Now, so long as music is repeated in the world, the name of George Frederick Handel will be imperishable. The young musician learned to play the harpsichord when he was only four years old and he was Teally no more than a child when he mastered the keys of the magnificent church organ in the Halle cathedral. This was the beginning of Handel's devotion to organ music. "The tones of the organ," he said, "bring harmonies from the immortals, and surely the angels are near when the great organ sings its theme of praise." The violin was the next instru. Ment mastered by Handel. He turned, then, to composition and wrote several operas in the style used by the Italians of his day. After his first opera was produced in London, in 1711, Handel was so toyally welcomed that he felt himself being adopted by the music-loving people of "green and rainy" England. It was not long before the German-born Handel became court musician to the King of England. George the First had a beautiful boat equipped with throne chairs. The boat sailed up and down the river Thames carrying the King of England and Handel, the King of Music. "Water Music" was the name given to the compositions that Handel played for the King as their boat plied the famous river. ANDEL, however, was seeking a medium greater than solitary compositions, greater, even, than operas. There was in his nature a deep spiritual yearning that finalPage 229 230 A Perry Picture GEORGE FREDERICK HANDEL ly found expression in writing oratorios. An oratorio resembles an opera in its telling of a dramatic story to the accompaniment of music. The oratorio, however, is usually based upon a sacred theme and the message of inspiration is delivered without a scenic background, without acting, and without costumes. The chorus, the orchestra, and the solo singers perform in magnificent unity. Sometimes, in a vast audience, you may see some of the listeners close their eyes in order that the message may come to them entirely through the medium of music. Handel's oratorio, using a Biblical text, possessed a lofty grandeur new to the world of music. His Israel in Egypt, Saul, and others, won the plaudits of the English nation. But it was the Messiah that held the people speechless with its strength and beauty. Here, the story of the life of Jesus is told in the matchless poetRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—APRIL 1946 ty of the Bible, and the music carnies the words sublimely as clouds are carried across the blue heavens. It is said that when the oratorio was completed, George Frederick Handel stood in his room, a sheaf of papers in his hands. Tears streamed down his face. The door slowly opened and a servant entered. Handel turned and cried out, "I thought I did see all heaven before me and the great God himself." The gifted composer was then fifty-six years old and this was the climax of his career, the high point of achievement. Although he could not then foresee the future, he realized, to some extent at least, that he had written immortal music. The narrative of the Messiah begins with the ancient prophecy, "Comfort ye, comfort ye my people. Speak ye comfortably to Jerusalem... The voice of him that crieth in the wilderness." (Isaiah 40:1-3). These words are sung by tenor. The chorus takes up the refrain, "And the glory of the Lord shall be revealed. The first part of the oratorio tells the story of the birth of Jesus, using the words of St. Luke to describe the shepherds "abiding in the field." With a joyous refrain, the chorus repeats the glowing words, "Unto us a child is born, unto us a son is given... And the government shall be upon his shoulder...." But the joyous phrases of the holy birth fade away as the story of Christ's life upon earth is unfolded. With shadowed intonations, the alto soloist sings the heart-breaking aria, "He is despised and rejected of men; a man of sorrows, and acquainted with grief...." And the AN ARIA FOR EASTER tenor takes up the dark measures, "Behold and see if there be _ SOTrow like unto his sorrow. THEN, from the shadows that precede the dawn, there comes the message of the resurrection, the thythm of new life, the measure of springtime, the eternal resurgence of the spirit. In words more clear than the tones of a bell, more lucid than falling water, the soprano sings, "I. Know that my redeemer liveth, and that he shall stand at the latter day upon the earth......" This is the beloved Easter aria, words of hope and comfort, words that have sustained the followers of Christ for centuries. These are the Biblical words that were treasured long before Handel set them to mu- 231 sic. Yet, with Handel's spacious talent, these words have acquired an added luster, a brighter illumination. The exquisite words are sung against a background of violin music more elusive and beautiful than the gray dawn shadows that dissolve into the opal morning. One feels the ineffable unity of this earth, its past, its present, and the ages tocome. One feels that this earth is but a part of the vastness of creation. The treasured words of the Easter aria fall in silver cadence, each note a jewel. "But now is Christ risen from the dead, the first fruits of them that slept." It is a majestic thing to remember that when Handel was an old man and the tide of his health was ebbing low, he played the organ at one of the numerous renditions of HANDEL AND GEORGE I OF ENGLAND From a Painting by Hamman 232 the Messiah in England. He had been blind for many years, but he could not give up his music. Especially he could not live without touching the organ keys to make them speak the message of faith and hope. On this occasion, the skilled hands of the master musician stopped in the middle of a phrase. He trembled and almost fell from the seat. Ina few moments he recovered his powRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—APRIL 1946 ers and finished playing the accompaniment with his accustomed grandeur. But that was the last time his fingers touched an organ. On Saturday, April 14, 1759, early in the morning, the man who composed the Messiah was himself wrapped in sleep. He lies with EngJand's honored ones in the vast crypts of Westminster Abbey. His spirit lives forever in his unrivalled music. WHEN THE CHOIR BROADCASTS Ruth H. Chadwick The Temple of God stands within my walls, Lifting its spires to heaven above, While Angel Moroni's clarion calls Proclaim the gospel of love. It comes on the wings of music and song, As the organ's rhythmic harmonies Sustain the cadenced tones and prolong The celestial melodies. It rises in splendor as each vibrant chord Mingles with praise from the choir unseen, To swell in hosannas to our Lord— And my reverent heart is serene! Faith Is a Heritage Christie Lund Coles CHAPTER I on the wooden washboard and brushed a wayward curl from her forehead. Then she stepped noiselessly to the door leading to the front room which was both livingroom and bedroom. She smiled gently at the sight of her small daughter sleeping soundly, one arm thrown above a tousled, dark head. "You Angel," she whispered, kissing the pink cheek. Rising, she placed her hands on her hips to say, "T'm thinking you get to look more like your father every minute." As she went out into the April sunshine, with the blue skies overhead and the spring sunlight falling upon the expectant earth, she laughed with the sheer joy of living. A song found her lips as she took each piece of clothing, shook it, then pinned it upon the clothesline. A neighbor, hanging clothes across a high board fence, called, "One thing, it'll soon dry in this sunshine." Enid called back, "Yes, isn't it wonderful?" The other woman looked at her rather sharply, "I can't say it's so wonderful. Mud to be tracked in and out of the house... This sudden thaw. Wait till your baby can run in and out by herself. And wait till you get a couple more to wash and iron for." Then, as a last gloomy thought, she added, as she turned to enter the house, '""There's death in this weather, too, if you ask me." |e ID piled her starched clothes But Enid did not let her neighbor's pessimism spoil her day. She was twenty-three, she had a husband whom she loved and who loved her. She was strong and well and had the most beautiful baby in the world... She thought of these things as she cleaned up the large, old-fashioned kitchen before starting to set the table. Yet, catching herself pausing in her work, she thought, "I have no time to be dreaming—even though it is wise to be counting my blessings. I must dress Sharon and feed her so she will be sweet for her adoring Daddy." There was none too much time. She was just wiping the last crumb from the small girl's mouth when she heard Tom's footsteps on the porch.. She would know the swift, strong sound of them any place. She hurriedly took Sharon up and rushed forward to meet him as he came in... Large and brown and smiling. Her husband, her Tom, her world... "Enid, Doll," he called her, taking her chin in his hand to tilt her face upward for his kiss. 'Then, to the baby, "If it isn't my big girl. Come here, you blue-eyed rascal." "Wonder where she gets those beautiful blue eyes?" Enid asked archly, looking at him from under dark, heavy lashes. "Now I wouldn't have the slightest idea," he returned laughingly, Page 233 shoulder where she was carried into and mo a sunny bay ndow the two-r00™m 4 rtmen which they You are going to have the best 0 were rentin! Use it was the OP y eve thing," thing availa "Don't you that might be é. I As Enid served the meal which she 4 little bit selfish?" she teased, adhad put into the oven before hang: ding soberly, "L think what you said ing het clothes, Tom said, "1 like first 18 right. Dreams and faith are washday. } know well have sc the things ™ live by. Espect# y loped potatoes-" faith." "And today, fruit cobbler," she He got up from the table, looked told him. Down at het fondly, "Be sute to keep "No kidding? Whatever didido your faith in me Sweetheart. To deserve th go" H ook his head the future in wonde nt at his good fortune, re then his eyes be grave and his yoice serious as he looked at her, say WEEN the clo had been ing, "someday, nid, and soon, we gathered in the dishes done be building our own home. WwW d put away, t on a clean won't live here very long ov yoile dress, prushed het hair, an have everything yo be the with the baby rt, starte finest lady 19 Pleasant Vl Ymin toward t do het shopping line to becom foreman 4 the fac: The peop! She on the stree tory ineteen twen new = friendly Though she was 4 foreman T wont dt men like howevet, w het because her hus Hutchins There'll b fewer! Band had lived het when he was a accidents, to better wor ' poy. His parents had been among "Ym not worried about yout makthe leaders f the church and ing good, 1 kno you'll suc: commun! She tho ght, as $ e ceed. But, as far as mi concerned, walked along, that it was strange I have everything 1 want right now. That poth of them should be orphans, If 1 thought being the finest lady 19 without any Neat relatives. Het pat: mighty good ighty good, inwas dead now, too, and both of deed." After a moment he took up Tom's parents died during the thread of their conversation, flu epidemt was thirteen 'Yes, Em have many £00 Her heart earned tenderly over him things. M ybe the pest part of life as she though f him lef alone is when you are young, and full of with aging grandparents. She dreams, full of faith in the future. Thought of his hewilderment and Even so, I'l be glad to get you out his hurt. It seemed even greater FAITH IS A HERITAGE than her own because she had been had to work to get through school. She would see that as soon as there Was enough money put away, he would return ini | neering course, a trained electrical engineer, They had back after a few years... But Sharon changed that. Have it any different, not for worlds. The grocer was most kind when time," speaking about her as she left the id, "That's. Tom Drage's wife. Isn't she pretty?" The other answered, "Yes. We'll eee ee NID was tolling Tom's socks to put in his drawer when she heard a knock on the door. Rising to open it, she saw the tall gaunt woman from whom they rented standing in the doorway. She hoped they had done nothing to displease her. She was not married, and certainly not being too occupied in her own full life. "Miss Nobbit," she gteeted her, 'Do come in," 235 The other woman looking at her oddly for a long second. Enid felt the blood move to her face as she wondered again what could account for the unprecedently, kindly, "My dear, you must be brave...." Then, her words falling swiftly over one another, "They just phoned me from the sugar factory. Something happened to your husband. Yoy musn't look 'like that, child, Here, let me get you a drink," way under her. She found herself on the bed, dazed and trembling, her breath coming fast, "He... He - +. Wasn't...?" She couldn't say the word, but Miss Nobbitt said, honestly, "T don't know. They told me they were bringing him home." Suddenly, Enid got to her feet, tan to the window. She could see several men cartying an improvised stretcher upon which lay a still, oh, an alarmingly stil] figure. Tom's figure, She heard Miss Nobbit say, "I've Phoned for the Doctor. He should be here any minute." She heard herself saying, "Thank you..." as her feet started toward the door, toward the street.... But, instead of going out, she suddenly turned and ran into the kitchen. Once there, she fel] to her knees, buried her face in her hands, crying, "Oh, God, please give me strength. Give me strength. Please Jet him be all right," adding, almost gtudgingly, "If it be thy will.. Please..." 236 When she returned to the room her face was paper-white but she carried her head bravely and her voice was almost calm as she said to the men, "Put him there, please. And do be careful." When they had laid his unconscious body on the bed, one of them awkwardly tried to explain that he had been trying to save time and, instead of stopping the machinery to adjust a belt, had tried to push it on with his foot. He had been caught in the horrible wheels. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—APRIL 1946 She shuddered as she thought of it. Somehow, she remembered his words that if he were foreman he wouldn't drive the men... She knelt beside him, stroked back his hair from the quiet forehead. She whispered, "Tom, Tom, darling. It's Enid...." But he did not hear her, and somehow, as she heard the doctor at the door, she knew with a dreadful certainty that he was dead. (To be continued) _- ~ AFTERMATH Anna Prince Redd Chimney weeds and broken path— The fire's sterile aftermath. Defiantly the chimney stands alone Divorced from every board and stone That once was home. Rubbish clutters up the lot, String and papers from the town are caught Upon the ragged shrubs. A yellow rose bush tries to bloom Without the care that once it knew; The grass that was the lawn Has gone to seed along the path And weeds usurp the bed Where flowers grew. My chimney shaft of mortared rock Has weathered storms, Withstood the shock Of winds that laid huge trees along the ground, Yet not a crack nor seam is found Breaking its strength. Standing there, its tall straight length Awaits the work of builder hands; I'm going back to where it stands, For there, is home. P 3A cf Se ae A Perry Picture "CHRIST AND THE HOLY WOMEN" From a Painting by Golz The Infallible Spirit Etta Mai Scott "Help us, O Lord our God; for we rest on thee" (II Chronicles 14:11). WHEN this statement was made, Asa saw himself confronted by a vast army, steeds, and chariots, with no sign of any reinforcements to come to his relief. Holding his own in the face of all of this, was a feat he felt that he could not attain. Therefore, he turned to the Lord and made entreaty. Asa's problem was only the case of the normal human being confronted with tragedy. We rush out to battle with our fears, and just as long as we have them under control, or as long as we are sure we have reinforcements to back us up, we move along at a gallant pace. But just let the walls of sorrow, grief, or despair confront us, let the wall of friendship, with which we thought ourselves surrounded, crumble, and our fortunes disappear, and we find ourselves lost and dazed. Then it is that we, like Asa, turn our eyes toward God—that great infallible Father to whom a flood of prayers is constantly ascending, that great Power whose word can stay the waves, move mountains, and calm the troubled souls of men. If only we would keep our eyes fixed upon him all the time instead of calling in our hour of distress: "Help us, O Lord our God; for we rest on thee." Page 237 My father wanted me to Marty been Made back East. They had Eph Wilson, and Brother Matt Wij. Shiny Pointed toes and high heels son, Eph's father, was a8 eager as and hig tops. Se. When father askeg ie, Wily ting basques and lined them and had don't you like Eph, Elvira?" all J very full skirts, ] knew I'd be hap. € has big feet om i kag uew calico, much ag I'd love u |: But there Was one reason Why ] enjoyed being Squired around b Ph, and that was Melissa Bates. 1€r eyes t that's another stor ance? Suddenly i shouted "No!" he best dance of € year wa Father went White and got u held on a dwinter's n ght, and the and strode Outside. When he came man you went S SUPPOsed to back in, he said, "I've been figurin THERE IS TRUTH [ looked up at him so relieved and happy that I must have shone. He fumbled for words before he added, "That is, if you'll consent to go with Eph." I laughed and hugged him and promised. How I did regret that promise! It was the very next day that I met Henry. I had two buckets of water I had just drawn from the well. I looked up from the windlass, and there stood a young man by the corner of the mill. He was bareheaded, his hair thick and yellow as wild currants, fit to dazzle my ey¢s. I stood with my mouth open staring like a little girl at her first boughten doll. Then | caught myself and turned away, my face burning clear back to my ears. But Henry called out, minute." So I stopped, and he came up to me and said, "You must be Elvira Lowham. My brother says you are working for his wife. I'm Henry Comer, Jim's brother, and I've come to live with them. Here, let me take that water." "Wait a HE lifted both buckets. "They're too heavy for you," he said. "Jiminy cricket! You're no bigger than a linnet. Honest, are you sev" enteen? Jim says you ame." I owned up to being seventeen and he carried the water into the house. But we didn't see much of each other after that, for all we worked so close together. We were too busy. But we did get snatches of talk now and then, evenings after the dough was set. Sometimes we stood out by the well, looking at the stars and the snow and the cold hills. I told him about the big dance 239 and found out that he was Crazy about dancing, too, and that he would be there. He wanted me to go with him, but there was my promise to father, and what could I do? Nobody was ever sortier about a bargain than 1 was ovet that one. But how else could I get the hoops for my dress? I didn't lie awake nights, though, much as I was scheming and figuring. When you're up at five-thirty of a morning and are kept busy washing dishes, scrubbing floors, and bending over washtubs you're glad to hit the pillow at night, and you go to bed to sleep. My! My! But I hardly got a chance to see how pretty the sun was, shining on the snow, unless I was out after water or hanging out clothes. The Comers had a little boy, David, who was a joy to be around. The first day I came he treated me like a guest, taking me to see a tree that he said was a "tree-apple" because it had apples on before the snow came. He showed me the mill and the well. He was a happy little coot, in spite of his solemn talk and his grown-up ways. Henry adored him. He told me once that heaven could offer a man no greater blessing than a son like David. So the days went by and I was contented seeing Henry at meals, and sometimes in the evenings. I decided that it was better to go to the dance with Eph and get a few turns with Henry than to miss both, and I kept busier than corn in a poppet. First thing I knew, Mrs. Comer's niece came to help her and I was free to go home, and there were only three days left before the dance. Wilson's store had a piece of red calico with small figures of blue, 240 black, and white. I bought that because red was my color, what with my dark curls and brown eyes. I got some big black buttons, too. The colors in our calico were much harder than in the prints we buy now, but I thought that was pretty. It was, too, lots prettier than homespun. Mother was a good hand with the needle and she helped me cut out and fit the dress. But stitching at night by the unsteady flame of a small coal-oil lamp made doing a good job difficult, especially with so little time, and I was hard pressed to get my dress done. Fact is, I didn't get the buttonholes worked. I just cut them and hoped that, what with the lining, they'd hold, and what with the big buttons, they wouldn't show. But the worst of it was that the afternoon of the dance it started to snow, and by evening it had whipped up into a right smart storm. The dance hall was a good two miles from our home, and father began to worty. He kept window-watching the weather, and finally, he said, "Elvira, my girl, it looks as if there'd be no dancing for you tonight." I looked up from the dishes I was washing and turned toward him, "Why not?" He said, "Look at the weather." "Who cares about the weather?" I asked, and slashed at a plate that was already clean. "T do," said father, "you can't go out in that blizzard. You'd freeze." I began to cry and said, ""Why did I work that hard all those weeks? And what is there to live for?" and a lot of other things. Then I went out the back door to throw out the dishwater. The wind nearly tore the pan from my hands. I returned and RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—APRIL 1946 pushed the door shut by backing up hard against it, and wiped the dishpan and hung it up. ATHER said, "You're not going out in that storm tonight." His gray eyes were getting narrower and narrower and he'd begun to twist his heavy black forelock. I began to be afraid that I really would have to stay at home. So I began to pet and coax. Finally, he picked up a chair and set it down hard and said, "'All right. If you can stand out in that weather for five minutes, I'll let you go to the dance." Whew, it was cold! And the wind! I could barely pull the door to behind me, but I did, and I went out and stayed out. I couldn't tell how long five minutes was and I didn't dare to go back in for fear it would be too soon and I'd lose out. Father gave in first. He came out after me. So I got ready for the dance. I slipped on my new red calico and stood on a chair to see, by the mirror in mother's dresser, how the hoops hung. I climbed down and did a turn or two to view the tips of my new shoes before I calmed down and began to pin up my side curls and to coax my bangs to lie flat. I rubbed a little of the over-bright color of my cheeks down with a stolen pinch of mother's precious potato starch. After awhile Eph came and mother gave us some bricks she had warmed and wrapped for my feet, and I put on my heavy coat. We had quilts and robes, and the going wasn't so bad. Anyway, when I was off to a dance, I was too excited to feel cold. THERE lS TRUTH But on the road I kept scheming for a way to get a little extra time with Henry. I thought and thought so much that I didn't notice when we drew up in front of the dance hall, till the team stopped and Eph made ready to hop down and help me out. I felt his big hand on my shoulder and reacted without thinking. I gave a little kick at just the wrong time at just the wrong angle. He caught his foot in my hoops and down he went sprawling onto the snow where the horses had trampled it hard. I scrambled down to help him, and there, in a strip of light from the doorway, stood Melissa. The sight of her gave me an idea. Melissa lived only a short way from the hall; she was crazy over Eph. What a set-up! I knelt down and began to make over Eph. I knew he wasn't injured, but Melissa didn't, and she'd give anything to walk into that party with Eph, or, at least, to keep me from doing it. Melissa was beside us instantly and was helping Eph to his feet. She put her hand on his head, feeling for the bump. I stole a peek at the folks gathered around, and there was Henry, so I couldn't say another word. Besides, Eph was in tender hands, and capable ones, too. More capable than I knew. Melissa said, "Elvira, you can't do anything more to help. Why not go inside out of the cold? I'll take Eph over home. It's so near. I'll get him fixed up a little." She looked at Henry. "Do you know each other? I suppose not. Mr. Comer, may T present Miss Lowham? Perhaps, you wouldn't mind escorting her inside. That's a dear." And that set- 24) tled it for Melissa and Eph, and, I thought, for me and Henry, too. But I didn't know Henry. He crooked his arm and I took it and we hurried into the hall where the fiddlers were striking up a polka. I was thrilled! I do believe that if the lamps had been suddenly blown out, no one would have missed their light for the shine of me. And then I caught Henry's eyes. They were as cold and forbidding as winter seas. He danced the first number with me, as it was his duty to do, but after that he kept as far away as the hall allowed. I tried not to show how it hurt, and I danced madly, a polka, a schottische or two, and a quadrille. We were tripping a varsovienne when Eph came in with Melissa. He had a headache, mostly plain temper, and he was dour as a camel. He danced a little, but not with me. Mostly he sat on a bench and sulked. I saw Melissa arguing with Henry. After a time she came to me and said, "Eph isn't feeling well and wants to go home, but he doesn't want to disturb your pleasure. Mr. Comer will take care of you," and she was gone before I could say a thing. SOME fellow swung me off in a Virginia reel and it was then that the accident happened. He caught his finger in one of my unfinished buttonholes and made a rip in my basque. I grabbed it and held it together while I ran for my coat. When Henry asked if I wanted to go home, [T had no choice but to go with him, bad as he had treated me. All the way home all he'd sav was. "Yes." "Wiel" "No." When he got out to lift me down 242 from the sleigh I asked him pointblank what had come over him. He said, "Miss Lowham, there is truth and there isa lie. One is good and the other is bad, and a man lives by his choice of the two. It's like a fork in the road. You can take the one on the right or the one on the left, but there is no middle way." He climbed into the sleigh and drove off without a glance at me, and I stood there in the path, realizing now why Melissa had been bossing Henry around all night. They had come together and he had been standing in the shadow when Melissa stood in the light. He had seen and heard the whole show I had put on over Eph and had seen through it. I just stood and wondered how much shame and misery a_ heart could hold and still beat, and then I turned and went into the house. One thing I gained, I was rid of Eph. Melissa took care of him for me for life. They were married the very next month with a big reception and everything. Henry was at the party, but he might as well have been in Klondike, so great was the coldness and distance in him. I tried to act merry, but I made a sorry mess of it. Father thought that it was losing Eph that kept me low, because he knew nothing about me and Henty. Ill say this for him, though, he didn't give me one word of censure. Spring came, and the spring dances, and I went with a different fellow every time, but even the dancing had lost its fun. Then the news came about the Comers. David had scarlet fever. Mrs. Comer's niece had got scared and gone home and left Mrs. Comer sick herself and with no help. I told Mother that I was going back, and I went. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—APRIL 1946 When I walked into the Comer house everything was at sixes and sevens, dishes piled on the table, floors dirty, beds tumbled, and Mrs. Comer, who was so ill she should have been in bed herself, was fussing over David. "Why, Elvira," she said and lit up with relief. Then her face clouded and she said, "But it's catching, you know, unless you've had it. Have you?" I hurried into the kitchen before she could go into details. For two weeks I was too busy to know that I was alive. The men weren't staying at home, so there weren't the heavy meals and housework to do, but David was very sick, and Mrs. Comer was too weak to help much. The little shaver grew worse and we were afraid that he couldn't pull through. I prayed and prayed, silently, as I worked. My heart ached, and when there wasn't something pressing to be done I went into the kitchen and washed. I washed until there was nothing left with a speck of soil on it, and the time went by. The doctor came every day and I tried to do everything that he ordered as well as a nurse would have done, if we could have found a nurse, and finally David began to improve. The fever went away and he lay, a small white ghost of himself, and my throat ached when I looked into his great dark eyes. "Vira," he'd say, "tell me a tory." And I told him all the wee-wee stories I knew and made up others. When I'd say, "I don't know any more, David," he'd say, "Shing to me then." And I'd sing even when the deep notes came out more like sobs. And when his appetite was so » | we Cried as | had never dare fore. € next 4 sore throat and jt got more a Come to apologiz rg Te Taw, and | beOat or the know]. UP from his hat, but his glance fel] agai Vv Henry would know at I had taken the rame very jl]. Don't know, wh Jagoe 244 He THE MERRILL LOCUST TREE Rebecca Merrill Ostler My thoughts go back to the little house Of long remembered days, In dear simplicity it stood With unpretentious ways; And yet it was a restful place, Beneath the locust's shade, The spreading branches guarded well The home my parents made. I long for that old locust tree And for the birds to sing— My father often rested there In early days of spring. He brought the seed from old Nauvoo In the pioneer wagon train And planted it deep in the desert soil When he found a home again; The tall old tree brings memories More dear than I can tell— Long may the locust lend its shade To the home we loved so well. Our Number One Enemy—Cancer Compiled by the Field Army, Utah Division of the American Cancer Society HAT is cancer? Cancer is not a disease. It is the wild growth of lawless "gangster" cells that infiltrate the surrounding area and, if not treated or removed in time, "metastasize" (that is, break off and travel in the bloodstream or in the lymphatic fluids to other positions, where they set up in business again). The result is death to the individual by interference with vital organs, either at the site of the original growth or at a new site after metastasis. We dread cancer above all other diseases. Therefore, it stands rightly among the causes of suffering and death as mankind's Number One Enemy. Every year scientific advances make it possible to save more people from cancer. Every year we grow older, however, cancer increases as a personal danger. The race between these two factors is the vital thing which concers us. Weare concerned with it in every age of life. Even among _ babies, children, and youths, cancer takes an appalling toll. This year it will kill nearly 2,000 American boys and girls who will never live to see their twenty-first birthday. Statistics indicate that between the ages of five and nineteen years, cancer kills more children than all of the following diseases combined: scarlet fever, infantile paralysis, typhoid fever, meningitis, peritonitis, diphtheria, dysentery, diarrhea, and malaria. One in every six deaths among people of middle age is caused by cancer. Even among the aged, cancer is not as high a cause of death proportionately. Thus, a vast number of cancer's victims are stricken when still at the height of their powers—fathers and mothers with dependent children, men and women whom society and business can least spare. The Facts We Must Face The proportions of the cancer tragedy are shocking. Cancer killed 607,000 Americans between Pearl Harbor and V-J Day —more than twice as many as were slain by the Germans and Japs. Right now, cancer is killing 175,- ooo Americans a yeat—478 every day—twenty every hour—one every three minutes. Cancer is the greatest killer of American women between the ages of thirty-five and fifty-four—the second greatest killer of American men. In Amenica today, it is estimated conservatively that more than 700,- ooo persons are suffering from cancer, and the total may approach 1,000,000. Yet, we can face with real hope facts even as terrible as these. When detected in time and treated effectively, cancer can be cured in a large proportion of cases. In ninety-five per cent of the cases, cancer of the skin or lip can be cured in its early stages—cancer of the breast or uterus in seventy-five per cent of the cases, if treated in time. It is estimated Page 245 246 that, on the basis of present knowledge alone, from thirty per cent to fifty per cent of all cancer can be cured through early recognition and effective treatment. For our nation as a whole, the cancer death rate is still alarmingly on the increase. But in those communities or among certain groups or citizens, where people have learned to recognize the danger signals of cancer and have proper facilities for treatment to which they turn quickly, cancer death rates are beginning to go down. For instance, one of our large insurance companies recently reported, for the first time, a definite downward trend in the cancer death rate among its white industrial policy holders over an entire decade. We ought to be turning the tide, however, not just for a part of our people, but for all of our people. This year, due largely to the efforts in which the American Cancer Society has played a leading part, the lives of 30,000 Americans will be saved from this terrible disease. But at least another 50,000 will die needlessly. They will die mainly because they lacked the knowledge to seek help early enough, or did not get the treatment they needed. We also have failed so far to do as much as we should to relieve the terrible suffering of those who cannot be saved and to increase constantly the proportion of those with good hope of salvation, through an adequate program of research. What We Must Do. We must press a comprehensive and relentless attack against cancer, upon all fronts—through education, adequate treatment, and_ research. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—APRIL 1946 To do this, we need, first of all, an effective means for organizing and directing the fight against cancer. The basis for such an organization was laid in 1913 with the founding of the American Cancer Society. Although handicapped by insufficient funds, it pioneered the educational program which proved that an ever-increasing number of lives can be saved. The American Cancer Society now has enlisted the highest leadership, both medical and lay, that can be had. Last year it established a beachhead for a really comprehensive attack on cancer. With the aid of the National Research Council, it began the organization of a far-reaching program of cancer reseatch. This year, it plans not only greatly to increase its research, but to increase facilities for the treatment of cancer patients. It is essential that people learn to consult a doctor at the first sign of possible cancer and that new and better ways to fight cancer be found through research. People must have places to turn for effective treatment. No matter what programs the government may propose for the study of cancer, there remains the need for private institutions to carry on cancer and other related basic research. In order to make a real start toward providing better care for cancer patients, the goal of the American Cancer Society this year is to raise $12,000,000. Utah's goal is $35,700.00. This will provide funds for more and better diagnosis in cancer clinics, including x-ray film and radium, to help establish can- OUR NUMBER ONE ENEMY—CANCER cer detection centers at key points within the State, to help establish Visiting-nurse service for care of can. Cer patients, Pose of developing a gteat nationwide, co-ordinated Tesearch attack on cancer, comparable to the comPrehensive scientific Tesearch attacks Which our nation made upon its wartime problems. Composed of the Nation's leading vises the government, but is not un. Der government control. € Council has appointed a from thirty per cent to fifty per cent, based on Present knowledge of cancer, No thinking person will deny that the threat of cancer IS very real to each and every one of us. € time has come in the fight against cancer to strike and to strike hard. —Discourses of Brigham Young, Page 565 Sixty Years Ago Excerpts from the Woman's Exponent, April 1, and April 15, 1886 For THE RIGHTS OF THE WOMEN OF ZION AND THE RIGHTS OF THE WomMeEN oF ALL NATIONS TOOELE: The quarterly conference of the Relief Society was held in the Tooele meeting house, March 13 and 14, 1886, with M. A. Hunter presiding. After the usual opening exercises, President Hunter made a few opening remarks, during which Sisters Presendia Kimball and Helen Mar Whitney arrived from Salt Lake City. Sister Kimball was the first speaker. She gave a great deal of good counsel and advice, suitable to all the saints, both old and young. Sister Whitney spoke very interestingly, with remarks to suit all, and encouraged all to live up to their privileges, for we live in very critical times. ****Sisters Kimball and Whitney stopped all the week and visited and cheered the sisters for they were full of blessings, and on Saturday returned home to the city. —Ann Tate, Cor. Sec. For Tooele Stake. X ue & PHYSICAL DEVELOPMENT: There is almost no limit to the physical development and health that may be gained and maintained by walking that is done for the purpose of exercise. Any one can find time and space in which to walk, and one can find congenial company for such trips. A prospective husband is not the best company at such times, for with him the walk will almost inevitably degenerate into a saunter; further, no woman can walk freely when custom or affection compels her to lean upon a masculine arm. To be beneficial, walking must be done in shoes broad enough to let the feet be placed firmly upon the ground at every step, and in clothing which will allow free play to the lungs and arms. The step should be as quick as can be maintained without causing uncomfortable increase in the action of the heart. The pedestrian should breathe through the nose, carry the head erect, and not be afraid of being high shouldered. —Selected see NOTES AND NEWS: The criterion of true beauty is that it increases on examination; if false, that it lessens. There is something, therefore, in true beauty that corresponds with right reason, and is not merely the creation of fancy. —Lord Greenville eek x MISCELLANEOUS: Silence does not always mark wisdom. The hardest useful labor is less exhausting, in the long run, than exciting pleasures, as most of their devotees in middle life sadly confess. Truth is as impossible to be soiled by any outward touch as the sunbeam. Eee 6 Then raise up your voices, fair daughters of Zion, Stand forth in the pride of your honor and worth; There's a power above us, whose hand we rely on, More potent than princes and kings of the earth. —M. J. Tanner Page 248 Woman's Sphere = Ramona W. Cannon ITH famine, disease, and injustice still stalking the world, we are confronted at every turn with sharp reminders of that second great commandment of Jesus—to love. One's neighbor as oneself. The people of America have done a valiant work in relieving suffering; but must we not come yet closer to the literal following of the Savior's pattem for living? RS. ELEANOR ROOSEVELT, our country's one woman delegate to the United Nations Organization conference in London, said, after traveling in Germany, that if people wanted to know the reason for the UNO, they should have a look at conditions in Germany. ORA WALN, Atlantic Monthly correspondent in the American zone in Germany, writes that out of 2866 births in August, 1148 deaths occurred, the principal cause being lack of food for mothers or babies. ANY young people in France have only half the daily amount of calories considered essential to health. A reputable French doctor believes that ninety-five per cent of the young people of Paris have tuberculosis. The French infant mortality rate is thirty-three per cent. The Chinese, East Indians, Malayans, and Filipinos have suffered excessively and still hunger. In India, in 1943, three million died of starvation. The present famine there is expected to be even worse. U4, since becoming a state in 1896, has had eight govemorts, including the present executive. The wives of four ex-Governors are still living. A fifth, Mrs. Charles R. Mabey, is only recently deceased. The surviving ladies, all widows, are: the State's first first-lady, Mrs. Heber M. Wells (1896-1904); Mrs. William Spry (1909-1917); Mrs. George H. Dern (1925-1933); Mrs. Henry Blood (1933-1941). S a small Indian girl, Rose Daniels, now ninety-one years old, was captured from her Navajo tribe by the Utes. As was done in many cases, the Mormons purchased her freedom. Living among her rescuers, she learned their ways. Later, married to a Ute and living on the barren reservation, she planted as the Mormons did, devising an irrigation system from the ditches, and improving her strains by working with the best seed. She has developed the only Lima bean that can be grown in the short, dry seasons of Utah, Wyoming, and South Dakota. Page 249 VOL. 33 EDITORIAL c—~2 APRIL 1946 Patient in Spirit" PATIENCE is a virtue which is enjoined many times in Holy Writ upon those who would be, in reality, the children of God. It is classed with such other qualities as faith, virtue, knowledge, temperance, brotherly kindness, godliness, charity, humility, and diligence. Patience, as an attribute of character, is extolled in the Epistle of James: Be patient therefore, brethren, unto the coming of the Lord. Behold, the husbandman waiteth for the precious fruit of the earth, and hath long patience for it, until he receive the early and latter rain. Be ye also patient; stablish your hearts: for the coming of the Lord draweth nigh.... Take, my brethren, the prophets, who have spoken in the name of the Lord, for an example of suffering affliction, and of patience. Behold, we count them happy which endure. Ye have heard of the patience of Job, and have seen the end of the Lord; that the Lord is very pitiful, and of tender mercy (James 5:7, 8, 10, 11). The "patience of Job" has come to be a common saying among men, and anyone can learn a lesson in patience from studying the life of this "perfect and upright" man. It is usually the case that one who _ habitually exercises patience has acquired this virtue from years of constant striving for its possession. Few individuals seem to be so fortunate as to be endowed with patience from Page 250 birth. It is a priceless acquisition for the wife and mother. Children rately realize the major role which patience plays in their home life as the mother guides the daily affairs of the home. But when a daughter assumes the responsibilities of wifehood, she soon awakens to the necessity of being patient in order that her new home may be permeated with a spirit of love and understanding. With the addition of the duties and cares of motherhood, a still greater need for patience is felt. If it is difficult to be patient in one's own affairs, it is still more difficult to be patient in directing the conduct of others. Too many mothers impulsively slap or berate a child without stopping to use a more effective means of correction for the lasting benefit of the child. It also requires patience to cheerfully perform, hour after hour, day after day, month after month, the same household tasks over and over again. A spint of patience is needed in order that joy may come from such inevitable tasks and not discontent or grumblings at the monotony and drudgery of a woman's housework. Only one who has learned by patience to curb hasty actions and goverm an unruly tongue, allowing matters to proceed in a natural manner, realizes the constant surveillance he EDITORIAL must impose on himself. The tendency on the part of most people to seek to force an issue without letting the individual, properly guided, work out his own problems and thus gain invaluable experience for himself, is directly traceable to a lack of patience. Blessed is the home where patience abides as a cultivated and nur- 251 tured member of the family. Blessed is any group which is presided over by one who is "patient in spirit." From an intimate association with patience one grows ever stronger in living according to the admonition of the Lord: "In your patience possess ye your souls" (Luke 21:19). MCS. Se Congratulations to President Smith ON HIS BIRTHDAY, APRIL 4th HE Relief Society General Presidency, on behalf of its world-wide membership, wishes to congratulate President George Albert Smith on the seventy-sixth anniversary of his birth. May this important milestone in his long career of outstanding service be a day of joy to him and a source of great satisfaction. We particularly remember that this is President Smith's first birthday as the President of the Church, and we wish him many more joyful anniversaries. May his health and strength be preserved, and may the prayers of the Relief Society sisters in his behalf, and their daily conduct be such as to help sustain him in his many responsibilities. May our love and appreciation go with him in his travels and abide with him in his home. May we teach our children the principles of high resolve, courage and devotion that President Smith has exemplified as a leader of his people. O Se Wotes. TO THE FIELD Relicf Society No Longer to Share in the Use of the Evenings of the Stake Quarterly Conference Sundays The following letter from the First Presidency is published for the information of stake and ward Relief Society presidents: February 21, 1946 "TO: PRESIDENCIES OF STAKES GENERAL SUPERINTENDENTS AND GENERAL PRESIDENTS OF AUXILIARY ORGANIZATIONS Dear Brethren and Sisters: In a letter dated April 25, 1942, addressed to presidencies of stakes, bishops, presidents of missions, and presidents of branches, it was recommended that 'during the emergency the several stake auxiliary organizations will share in the use of the evenings of the stake quarterly conference Sundays for their stake auxiliary conferences and other programs under the assignment, direction, and discretion of the stake presidency.' At the regular meeting of the First Presidency and the Council of the Twelve held January 31, 1946, it was decided, after due consideration of the matters of Sunday evening meetings held in connection with stake quarterly conferences, to advise that these meetings be given to the Young Men's and Young Women's Mutual Improvement Associations instead of being alternated among the various auxiliaries. Therefore, commencing as of this date, presidencies of stakes, superintendents and presidents of auxiliary associations will please arrange their programs in accordance with this recommendation. Regarding the holding of special auxiliary meetings in wards, we repeat the instructions heretofore given as follows: 'In the wards the Relief Society, the Sunday School, the Mutual Improvement Associations, the Primary Association, and the Genealogical Society will hold all their special meetings and annual conferences on the evenings of Page 252 Fast Sundays. The assignment of these evenings to the various auxiliaries will be made by the bishopric of the ward after consultation with the auxiliary organizations.' Sincerely your brethren, (Signed) Geo. Albert Smith J. Reuben Clark, Jr. David O. McKay The First Presidency" VOICE OF CUMORAH Jo Adelaide Stock I am a hill of stone and clay, Of grass and tree; A sacred record, ancient, lay Hidden in me! The earth which long my treasure kept Is holy earth; Within my bosom close it slept Until its birth. To me a righteous prophet gave The work of years; To keep, to cherish and to save Through trial and tears! I've felt the blessed holy tread Of Angels' feet! I heard the words Moroni said, And oh, how sweet! Call me thrice blessed! Hark to mel Reward is mine! To every saint o'er land and sea I am a shrine! NOTES TO THE FIELD 253 StOW faster." —Benjamin Franklin €; hear, and Your soul shal] live; and ting covenant With you, €ven th e sure METCcies of Let the Wicked forsake hi and let him S Way, and the unri Teturn unto the L Our God, fo Shteous man his thoughts t he wil] abundantly ardon than you; Ways, and my thoughts th —Isaiah 55:2-9. In 1340 A. D., the Poet Chaucer Said: "Character and name depart Standing as lights in the dark ages. 5 Dr, n Rush resolutely under, took by ex e€Nnsive effo ts, long Petsevered in, mid the ardy ti | Profession, to withstand th; Steat and deya Press and by Personal influen | "For the dryn Ness shal] clothe 4 man with Page 254 Ord, and he OF as the heavens are higher than the When wine Comes in," "Other men had incy cated temperan € both by Precept and ex, I hay, Mercy upo him; and to » 6 ~ le, Magic Word m Mary Ek Knowles HEN at last she reached the foot of the tortuous path, the woman sank exhausted to the ground, A moment she lay there, her Jabored breathing coming from fevercracked lips, the pain and weariness of her body almost more than she could bear. Then she raised her head and looked back up the dark way from whence she had come, and bewilderment seized her. Ere was she? Why was she here? All about her was darkness—heavy, crushing She began to whimper as a child does when it awakens from a nightcame to her echoing and re-echoing down the dark chasm. "Come back! Come vack to me!" ©, woman recogrized her mother's voice; and, at the sound, all the jtughing carefree days of child- "Yes, yes, Mother!" to cry eagerly. "I am coming back." But she could not open her lips, could not move her tired body. Owsiness her—a drowsiness that numbed her senses and With difficul through a silvery mist, was a peaceful, green countryside with a cool stream winding lazily through a lush meadow. She had but to cross a small bridge and she would be in this coo] Paradise. Slowly she pulled her body over the hard ground toward the bridge, and one hand teached up and clung to the narrow railing. Again a dear voice called to her: "Come back! Come back to me!" It was the voice of her husband. The woman's head went up. Oh, she must go back! Somehow she must drag herself back up that steep Path. Her lips formed the word, "Coming!" Desperately she tried, but she could not tise, could not make her body do her will, And she was tired SO very, very tired. Suddenly, walked across the bridge she would become as strong and carefree as the child who had once raced through and rest—peace such as she had never known, She raised herself up and put one foot on the bridge, As she did S0, a child's voice came to her. "Mother! Mother!" it called. € mother turned her head, and her body straightened. It was as "if the magic word, "Mother," had tapped a hidden spring of strength. Without hesitation, she turned her back on Paradise and started to climb the long, stony path to earth. Page 255 The White Picket Fence Sarah O. Moss ATRICIA hurriedly placed a half dozen card tables about her spacious living-room and spread dainty lunch cloths on each one with meticulous care. She took infinite pains with the one long table in the southeast corner and placed a centerpiece of roses in a glass bowl on the center of the lace cloth. Patricia) glanced with - satisfaction through the corner window at the majestic scene before her—high, rolling mountains spread with autumn color, and then she looked at her own tailored lawns flanked by cleankept flower beds. She frowned at the broken pickets in the white fence that divided her yard from the tiny structure on the prized corner lot adjoining. "Tom," she called in a distressed voice, "you've promised me ever since that load of topsoil was delivered, that you'd fix those pickets the truck ruined, and here it is, the one day of my life when I wanted everything to be perfect and my guests will have to stare at the jagged fence. A broken fence, plus that little matchbox of a house." Tom came in from the breakfast room carrying a napkin which he laid on the hall table, as he picked up his hat. "T'll fix it tonight sure," he said, coming forward, and then, remembering, he added, "Sorry, Pat. That won't do you any good—the patty''ll be over." "If you only hadn't been so slow, Tom," said Patricia busying herself with the table, "we could have Page 256 owned that lot and had it all to ourselves. Now look at it." She threw him a pouty look. Tom put his arm across her shoulder, detaining her as she rushed about the room. "Say, listen," he told her firmly, "you are going to grow old hating that little house next door.. Those people have to live, too. They're a decent sort and mind their own business. I think they'll make good neighbors." Patricia gave him a wry smile. "I suppose you're night. Still, neighbors are the least of my worries. I rather enjoy being alone. But that little tiny house and those pickets, Tom, that's all Doris Banks will see if she sits at this table." Tom went toward the door. "Well, put her in front of a wall. She's nobody." "Oh, but she is, Tom," said Patricia suddenly and with firm confidence. ''She's vice-president of the Betterment League. She is important. And think of it! Mrs. Mathew James, a national figure, when it comes to civic affairs, will be here. They say she's a marvelous talker, too. I'm so glad for my lovely home, and thanks to Isabell Cottam, my party food will be perfect." "And I suppose you wear the new suit today?" said Tom with a satisfied. Smile on his face. "A swelllooking president." "Uh hu, and I'll try to make time to stop in and see you," Patricia told her husband as he hurried away. There was so much to do. She THE WHITE PICKET FENCE picked up and polished silverware from the buffet and began placing it on the tables, but at the telePhone's urgent tinging, she left her task to answer it in the back hall. It was Isabell Cottam on the line. Patricia's face turned red and white at intervals as she listened to a long speech from the other end. "But what shall [ do, Isabell?" Patricia groaned. "Of course I'm sorty about your mother having a stroke, but goodness, I'm in a spot. I couldn't fix all that food and besides it worries me, J] get confused and my party'll be a flop." She hesitated again as she listened. "No, I don't know any of my neighbors well enough to ask them to come in and help. I've just never felt close enough to them." Again advice came from Isabell. "T wouldn't feel confident about that colored girl, Isabell. I'm sure she wouldn't know what to do if I left her as I'd planned." The conversation went on. Pa. Tricia became more discouraged the more she talked. Finally, she said. "Tl: manage somehow, Isabell, ] know you have your hands full, and I'm terribly sorry about your mother." At last. The conversation ended. ATRICIA sat frozen to the chair in the hall. How perfectly awful! She did the only thing she felt like doing. She cried brokenly, without restraint, and her sobs shook her small body. "Ts something wrong?" Patricia jumped, then, seeing the little figure from the small house, she rose to open the door, still crying. She told the neighbor as steadily as she could what had happened. "Perhaps T can help," said the 257 neighbor, who spoke with an accent. Patricia smiled. "You're ve kind," she said, with Tegret that she hadn't been more friendly through the month that the new people had lived next door. Without confidence, she led the way to the kitchen and surveyed the Prospect of creating a luncheon. "This is the menu I'd planned, but it's too elaborate. Now, let's see—I'll have to stay and help. You see, I was to go to the airport to meet Mrs, James, our guest of honor, and then there was to have been a sight-seeing trip. Luncheon is scheduled for one o'clock, so ['ll have to get something together that won't take too much time, or be too confusing.": She thought of all the lovely things that Isabell could make. She wished that the aged woman who was Isabell's mother had delayed having her stroke for a day. How silly! How selfish! Patricia managed to smile at her neighbor who stood waiting to start her work. "Tm sure everything will work out," said Mrs. Jarmen. But nothing was working out today. Patricia answered the telephone again, and before she had time to tell Doris about her own troubles, Doris told her that she wouldn't be able to 80 to the airport because her dressmaker who had altered her suit had to take out the hem. "It's just a half inch too long and you know what a half inch in a hem can do toa suit," she told Patricia. Patricia swayed. Doris, who was vice-president of the Betterment League, -couldn't go to the airport. That meant Patricia had to go. But the luncheon! What a morning! Patricia went back into the kitch- 258 en. "I'll have to dress right now," she told Mrs. Jarmen. "Order some Parker House rolls from the bakery." She thought of Isabell's beaten biscuits. "And order some ice cream _chocolate, from the Sherbet Shop. When I get back we'll make a salad of that chicken and some hot chocoJate. If you'll wash the lettuce and drain it, and prepare the chickens, ['ll run and dress." Patricia vanished. She dressed quickly, then hurried down to pack out the car. She remembered that she hadn't taken time to prop: erly thank Mrs. Jarmen for her proffer of help. She rushed back into the house.. "Mrs. Jarmen, you're like a Christmas gift. I don't understand how you happened along when you did. 1 do appreciate what you're doing." Patricia looked at the calm face before her. "Well, don't worry, Mrs. Wright. I'm glad that I didn't go out to work today." Her Mona Lisa smile disturbed Patricia. She felt that the woman was laughing at her. "Tl get back as soon as I can," she told Mrs. Jarmen, with small spirit. "And will you order the tolls at once, and the ice cream?" Mrs. Jarmen waved and nodded. PATRICIA arrived at the airport with five minutes to wait, but when the plane arrived Mrs. James was not on it. "She's probably on a special plane that's due in half an hour," the clerk at the window told her. "A delegation of some sort is coming through." He proved to be right. Mrs. James was among the passengers. She was very charming, and Patricia was glad RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—APRIL 1946 when she expressed a desire to go directly to her hotel to freshen up. That would give Patricia an hour extra, and by that time Doris ought to be free to take over. She could take Mrs. James around the town, and the luncheon might turn out right after all. But nobody had figured on the press. Judy Raymond knew about Patricia's party and wanted to make the most of it for her society page. She talked long and freely to Mrs. James and seemed to take ages to get the proper pictures. If she'd only hurry. At an opportune interval, Patricia slipped to a telephone booth and called her home. "Did you get the order in for the rolls?" was her first concer, as Mrs. Jarmen answered. "No, we were too late for special orders, and the ice cream delivery doesn't get up this way in time for lunch, but I can make some biscuits Mrs. Wright. Don't worry." Worry! The woman didn't know what she was saying. The worry was sending her frantic. "Tl pick up the ice cream, or run down for it, after I get home. I'm delayed, but T'll come as soon as I can." She didn't wait to hear what Mrs. Jarmen was saying. She couldn't wait. Mrs. James was looking for her. She was probably tired and was anxious to clean up. It was twenty minutes to one when Patricia finally turned the job over to Doris. She breathed a sigh of relief when she at last reached her own yard and rushed in through the back hall. She raced up the stairs to find a pretty apron, and, smelling the brown of hot biscuits, she conjectured what they might look like. Would they be big, fam- THE WHITE PICKET FENCE ily size discs, or what? Well it couldn't matter now. Things couldn't be any worse. With freshened face and a dainty apron, she went down the front stairs. She stood breathlessly still at the scene before her. The tables gleamed with beautiful creations— salad that looked like an advertisement, made of melon balls, cantaloupe, and grapes. Jellies in dainty dishes, rosebud radishes, and olives looked invitingly tempting to Patricia, as she came down the stairs and into the roomy kitchen. Mrs. Jarmen was bending over a huge pan of dollar-size hot bread, crusty and golden. On the stove stood the hot chocolate ready to pour. Chicken a la king was waiting to be served, and the concoctions in the other dishes Patricia couldn't name. On the table stood rows and rows of dainty tarts, her own menu carried out more elaborately even than she had dreamed. Patricia was overwhelmed. "Mrs. Jarmen," she said accusingly, "you should have told me you were a cateress." Mrs. Jarmen spread her honestlooking smile across her features. "No need," she said, "that's the fun of having neighbors—finding out about them." "It's all so lovely," said Patricia, 259 now understanding the Mona Lisa smile. Mrs. Jarmen had wanted to surprise her and she had succeeded famously. "How I can ever make this up to you will take me the rest of my life to figure out. You're a dear," she said as the doorbell rang and she went with pride to answer it. It was seven o'clock when Patricia stood by her kitchen window looking into the yard next door. She had already thought of a dozen ways she might show her appreciation to Mrs. Jarmen. The two girls might as well have the use of the piano that stood in the hall, so they wouldn't have to walk six blocks to the home of an aunt each day to practice. They must be persuaded to use the library upstairs, too, for their school work. She'd make Mrs. Jarmen an afghan and perhaps 'Tom could take Mr. Jarmen on a fishing trip. Tom spoiled her reverie when he came into the room with a saw and a hammer. "Have you seen any nails? I need some Pat, to fix your pickets." He looked at her questioningly. Patricia smiled slightly. "Tom," she said, with a sudden thought, 'let's not fix those pickets. Let's make a gate instead. It'll be so much handier than going way around." —1-oAPPLE TREE IN APRIL Katherine Fernelius Larsen Dew-washed and fragrant, at the very edge of day She stands, glowing with the prescience of dawn. To whisper her poem to the tantalizing breeze, Then, after, scatter pink-edged pages on the lawn! Digging for Happiness Elizabeth Adamson YRA'S thoughts, as she walked home from Relief Society meeting, were a trifle confused. She had hated to tell Sister Packham that she had definitely decided she wouldn't keep on with her class lessons. And Sister Packham had been so nice about it; but her parting words traced an indelible line through Myra's mind. "I hope you'll reconsider, Myra. You'll make a wonderful teacher. Just try it once more. We all have hidden talents that give us a pleasurable surprise when we dig them out and use them. And it's surprising how much. Genuine joy and satisfaction we get in the process of digging." The last sentence, particularly, kept running through her mind, once in awhile interspersed with a remark of Tim's, "If you would only try, use a little patience. Big things aren't done in a hurry." Even Tim thought she had something that so far had failed to materialize. Myra was at her own gate. This time, instead of hurrying into the house, for some reason, she stopped to gaze about her. It's funny, she thought, I've never especially noticed how inviting Tim has made our yard. It's taken a long time to make things look like this—the white arbor, the flower beds, and even the grass. It's so orderly and peaceful out here that I hate to go in. She dropped down on the grass. Her thoughts kept on. What's the difference between Tim and me? He Page 260 gets results. He's happy and contented. He seldom complains. And I am practically the opposite. Why? Myra rested her head on her arms. Could there really be some magic in trying and doing instead of just dreaming and wishing? Suddenly Myra jumped to her feet, a look of resolution in her eyes. She would give Sister Packham's and Tim's hints a thoroughly honest try. She would stop dreaming about what she would like to have and do, and really find out for herself what applied effort would bring. Immediately upon making this decision, her blood began to pulsate with new life and she was filled with the need to go into action. Her mind raced ahead to the tasks and work she had to do. As she enumerated them one by one, and the list became longer, her determination began to ebb. There was Nancy's dress to finish, dishes to wash, ironing to be done, and dinner started, besides the other tasks she had left until she felt more in the mood. Oh, there were too many things! She never could get them all done. Ig was by sheer will power that Myra commandeered her fleeing energies to stop and come back to the battle front. "For," she said aloud, "it looks as if I really do have a battle, one of habit. That must be the way I've always been. When I have a stack of things to do, I either somehow back out and do them as I feel the urge, or rush through them DIGGING FOR HAPPINESS so fast nothing is done quite right. No wonder I'm never satisfied. But not this time. I'm going to prove to myself I can do things and do them well. I will! I will! I can, especially if the Lord will help me." She pushed open the door. As she glanced at the upheaval she had left when she went to Relief Society meeting she winced. But, undauntedly, she continued to her room. Here, at least, everything was in order. Tim generally came in here to do his work, and so she had thought he didn't particularly notice the rest of the house if this room was kept spic and span. Myra changed her clothes to some she could work in. Then she knelt down to pray and ask the Lord for help in carrying out her new resolution. When she arose, her eyes traveled to the desk. Of course, she thought, a schedule is what I need. It won't make so much difference if I'm slow getting started tonight if I know exactly what I'm going to do from now on. She sat down and began her list. She put in everything, including preparation for her Relief Society lesson. When she had completed it, she was astounded at the things there were to do, especially if she did things right. There was meal-planning, housework, sewing, time for the children, and all the little things that make a home seem to run on oiled wheels. After puzzling over her problem for several minutes, she decided to divide her list into a daily program, making sure each day saw something other than routine tasks done. Eventually, she was satisfied that her program covered all her duties. 261 She considered places to put the program, and at last decided that inside the cupboard door was handiest, where no one would be likely to notice it. For awhile that was what she wanted—secrecy in making herself over. Also, being in the cupboard, the schedule would always be close at hand for checking on herself. Dinner was well under way when Tim Morgan opened the door. "Um-m-m. Something smells good. What are you cooking?" he asked, by way of greeting. "Just the usual thing," Myra said, looking up at him from the finishing touches of Nancy's dress. She wanted to surprise him tonight, and anyway getting interesting meals was to be a regular feature in her schedule. "Well, that's that," said Myra as she held the dress up for a final scrutiny. "It's finished." And, to herself, added that it did look pretty and neat. At least she wasn't ashamed of this one. She'd had to do a good deal of unpicking and resewing to get it satisfactory. The feeling of something well done began to exhilarate her. It was with some constraint that she refrained from telling Tim about her decision, especially when he remarked, "Things must have gone pretty well in Relief Society today." "But they didn't. I made such a mess of the lesson. I thought maybe I would resign. I did start to. Then Sister Packham asked me to think it over again before I really said no." "She's night. You should never quit until you are absolutely certain within yourself that you cannot do the job." Tim had encouraged her 262 to take the class. He thought they both might get something out of it. Dinner was over, and Myra had completed her dishes. It had been worth the extra effort to make the steamed pudding. Tim had seemed to really enjoy everything, even though there were no remarks made. But she dreaded doing her next job —sitting down to read over her next lesson. However, she reasoned with herself, if she started now she could think about it as she went to sleep and tomorrow she would be able to locate one of the references. She settled down to her reading. While she was finding her place a few paragraphs from an article in The Relief Society Magazine caught her eye: To live affirmatively, abundantly, is possible for each of us, and to do it is a major achievement. To fill one's days with useful work, to do well the task immediately in front of one is to be happy now and to make secure the future. A wellordered life is free from lost time, lost motion, desultory effort, and needless worry. One of the secrets of really great living is having ideals and standards and then living up to them. When we cherish lofty ideals and strive heroically to attain them, we are made both strong and happy. Even the Magazine has remarks of strength in it for me, and are applicable to me, she thought. OMETIMES it was hard for Myra to carry out her resolution. Unexpected things came up. Her old habits were very strong upon her. And on those days that she let them RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE-—-APRIL 1946 conquer she was as dissatisfied as she had ever been. But, on the days that her willpower won, she always went to bed happy. She even caught herself bursting into snatches of song. Tim, too, noticed the change. At first, he said nothing. Then, as things began to be easier for her to keep up with, he asked her if she had found a new formula for living. He had never seen things quite so nice, nor her quite so hapPy: But Myra told him nothing. She simply smiled and resolved to carry on even more strongly. Each day, too, she devoted a few minutes to study. Her crowning point of happiness was the ease and fluency with which she was able to present her Relief Society lesson. Not once did she falter, not even during a lively discussion. Tears of joy were in her eyes when Sister Packham put her arm around her after the meeting was over and said, "I believe that was one of the very best lessons | ever participated in. You do have a real knack for explaining the lesson and drawing us out." Silently Myra thanked the Lord and prayed for more help to carry on and gain even higher success and confidence in her abilities, that she might ever enjoy the satisfaction and joy of well-earned happiness. She knew she had only just begun. There. Were many more things to overcome and accomplish. But she would continue digging for happiness, for there was a veritable and great treasure to be gained. Ke w 3 a & nm & BO Ax iF 2) é G6 my © Et 2 B=) Ques Between the Dusk and the Dark Alice Whitson Norton 66 ETWEEN the dusk and the dark—did you ever stop to think of that one hour in the day, what it means to the countless mass of people who go and come by the clock?" asked a tired little saleswoman one afternoon, of a thoughtless customer who sat at one of the lace counters in a big department store, carelessly fingering the laces. "No," said the customer, "I never thought that that particular hour could mean very much to anybody; to me it's the hour that means I must be hurrying home in order to be there when my husband gets in. He is very particular about my being in the house when he comes home." "Isn't it wonderful," responded the saleswoman, "to be waiting for a kind man at the door of a home at the twilight hour?" "Sounds well enough for one who's never experienced the feeling," laughed the customer, "but to me twilight means getting home in time to let my husband in—nothing more." With that, the customer arose and made a hasty exit, and the saleswoman turned to me, who, being a customer, was awaiting my turn to be served. "Funny expression, wasn't it?" she said with a meaning nod towards the departing figure. ""That's all some people see in the twilight hour—but to me—" "You must love the twilight hour," I interrupted. "Love it?" she asked, "It's the Page 264 sweetest time of day to me—that one hour between dusk and dark, when every home-loving person begins to seek his own shelter." This statement was new to me, and believing the young woman on the other side of the counter had a vision worth sharing, I questioned her further. "TI call it the ecstasy hour," she said presently, "for in that one hour of the day I honestly believe that joy tules the world. You see," she went on softly, "it's the one hour in the whole twenty-four when people seemingly leave off their troubles— the thought of going home fills their minds, and trouble and _ business worries are laid away. You can feel the spirit of joyousness in the crowd that jams the street-cars at the twilight hour, and in their faces you can almost read what awaits them at the end of the journey. "You'll see the tired little mother eagerly watching for the glimpse of the street lamp where she leaves the car; the weary father leans anxiously towards the little bell on the car wall three blocks before it's time to ning it. The young husband, pretentiously reading the newspaper, folds it six blocks from his stopping place. That's the street-car side of it. Of course, that's a very small part now, for so many folks go and come in autos and buses. Even the auto, to me," laughed the girl, "plays an important part in this home-coming hour of mine." "You are quite an observing young lady," I said, by way of response. BETWEEN THE DUSK AND THE DARK "Perhaps," she answered, "1 am a little too observing—but back to the home-coming hour: I happen to live in the North Street '[riangle apartment house, and from. My window I can view three streets, and from close observation, have learned a lot about home-comets. CofrOR instance," she continued, "I often sit at the window and watch the cars come down Long Avenue. I can tell almost at a glance just where they are going to stop. One car, with four blazing lights, turns the corner slowly, stops before the biggest house on the street; then, even more slowly than the car aproached, a man gets out and drags himself wearily up the long walk. Indifferently he turns the keys in the door and goes in." "Why indifferently?" 1 asked. "Because," answered the young woman, "nobody lives there but himself." "One little two-eyed car turns the comer like an ice skater, making a curve, and rolls swiftly to the curb before a tiny house. The driver gets out and, going in, is in keeping with the movement of the car—he's in a hurry to get home." "You're sure about that?" I asked. "Quite sure," she answered sweetly, "there's a wife and baby waiting for him within the little house." "Next," she went on, a bit slowly, "usually comes a small coupe. This car belongs to a business woman. She drives her cat just as cate fully as she manages her business, and doesn't stop until she's inside the garage." "Ts she in a hurry?" I questioned eagerly. 265 "No," said the saleswoman, "she is neither rushed nor slow. To her this coming home hour is just part of the busy day. 'True, she has her parents to look after when she arrives, but, having provided for theit comfort before she left home in the morning, she feels no need to hurry in the evening. "Then, there is another cat—" For a minute the speaker paused and I was just beginning to feel as if she were going to leave off the most important one of all, when she smiled bravely. "I know it," she continued softly, "the instant it turns the curve on Long Avenue, because it doesn't run as smoothly as the others do, for the driver has only one arm, but as it comes wiggling up the street, my heart seems to come right up into my mouth, for in it comes the most lovable man in the world. He is my —my husband. We met each other in the twilight, we were married between the dusk and dark—he enlisted in the great World War, between the dusk and dark, was wounded in action just as day was kissing the world goodbye. He came home pruised in body and broken in spirit, and for months it seemed as if nothing could save him. It was then that I began to work at this store, and, coming home one evening in the dusk, I found him waiting for me with a smile. So you see," she fin- 'shed softly, "what the home-coming hour means to me." "T see," I answered huskily, "and henceforth and forever the twilight hour will have a new meaning for me—the home-coming hour—the hour when troubles are laid aside in the joy of coming pack to those we love." A Floral Symphony Betti Williamson on a winter-darkened world like a miracle. Children's footsteps echo in glad rhythm along the sidewalk, and the "swish-swish" of the housewife's broom, sweeping the path, is a sound that comes to the eager ear with pure delight. Even the sound of the rake, gathering last fall's leaves from the driveway, is a note closely tuned to joy. The welcome sunlight — slants across the garden wall and turns the brown grass to verdant green. Almost beneath the gardener's watchful eye, the crocus unfurls its bright aureole of satin petals, and the tulip bud expands into a colored cup of waxen beauty. Regal as a queen, wearing the royal purple, the hyacinth reigns ia first spring day breaks upin the court of springtime flowers. And yet the busy housewife, the hurried mother, may not find time to truly enjoy the most exquisite season, to breathe in the fragrance of flowers that fade all too fast. For this reason, many homemakers bring some of the springtime flowers into the house.. Pansies and violets, dug up in small clumps, with the roots protected by soil, may easily be transferred to a yellow bowl to grace the comer table or to adorn the top of the bookcase. Tulips, hyacinths, and daffodils, when the buds are ready to open, may be dug up and placed in flower pots for indoor blooming. A single blossom or a simple flower arrangement will delight the A FLORAL SYMPHONY family and bring to the housewife that abiding sense of beauty so necessary to the spirit of the home. Many time floral arlangements that bring the bright colors of the hills and fields and orchards into the house, Owers may be arranged into harmonious designs by blue grape hyacinths cari) make a d the atmosphere of April. If your child's birthday happens very special center. Piece. Candy rabbits or Plastic rab. 267 bits may be combined with a vegetable platter. Use a border of curly endive or cuisp lettuce, with tadishes, carrots, watercress, and turnips for the center arrangement. Children will like vegetables much better when they see how teally beautiful these necessary foods can be. Perhaps you haye a guest ora relative visiting in the home. Perhaps you have asked a few of the neighbors in to spend the afternoon. Why not prepare a luncheon with an interesting and attractive color scheme? You might spread a yellow linen cloth with a springtime "floral symphony" for a centerpiece. Here are some suggested combinations: Yellow daffodils in a pale green bow] with green vases or figurines. Ite hyacinths airanged with q pair of porcelain bluebirds, Multi-colored Pansies in a yellow bowl. Circle the bowl with alternating blue and yellow candy Easter eggs. The menu, also, may be planned to harmonize with spring. As a yellow-green color scheme, the follow. 268 ing menu will prove delightful: Minted Fruit Cup Souffle Radishes and small green onions Hot rolls Leaf lettuce Tiny cup cakes frosted with pale yellow and green icing Beverage made of lime, lemon, and orange juice The minted fruit cup may be made with various fruit combinations, but you will find this recipe delicious: RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—APRIL 1946 Crush a half pound of mint candy. Add one cup of pineapple or orange juice. Pour this mixture over individual servings of sliced pineapple, grapefruit, and oranges. When flowers and food and springtime are properly combined, the result is sure to be delightful. Try this artistic accomplishment in your own home, and you will know that April has come to the inside of the home as well as to the outside. Emulating Grandmother Linda S. Fletcher HE occasional angry chord that T crashed out from the piano under the touch of Elaine Norris' fragile-looking, but very strong, pale hands betrayed the indignant climax to which her thoughts kept building. The emotional turmoil thus expressed had been started on its incendiary way by her husband's suggestion the previous evening after dinner, as they were enjoying a game of dominoes in their comfortable living-room, that they join a group which was planning to rent land and produce a four-acre vegetable garden. For a moment Elaine had been stunned by the proposition. Then: "But, John," she had almost wailed, "my music—my Hands!" Elaine had always thought of her hands with a capital "H." John had smiled just a little, she remembered, as he had paused briefly to place the domino which had scored him a "twenty." "But it won't be as bad as all of that," he had assured her soothingly. "There will be a dozen families tending the garden, and so we shall each need to spend only a few hours two or three evenings a week to keep it in a first-class condition. I think it will be good for us to work in the soil." "T'm sure I'm in very good physical condition," Elaine had retorted haughtily. "I do my exercises every day." "But I'm sure you'll find a few unused muscles if you get to tending a garden," John had smiled in return. "But my USO work," Elaine had further protested, "and the Civic Opera! And do you forget that I am doing almost all of the work in keeping up this big house? As for you —don't you get enough contact with Mother Earth in caring for our grounds?" "With Tommy Wells mowing the grass, I don't have too much to do. A couple of hours in the morming will give me time to keep things in good condition. And you will not have to give up your weekly evening at the USO. I wouldn't want you to be unable to play for the Service Men's Broadcast. As for the opera—the work in the garden at that time will not be so heavy that you'll be prevented from assisting with its presentation. Everyone, now, should raise a garden." "But you and I can afford to buy what we need." "Of course—if there is food to be had. But I look at it this way, with Mary and Beth both moving so frequently from place to place in order to be with their husbands, they aren't going to be able to do any canning, and I'm sure Robert will be much better fed in the army, if we help to increase the food supply for ourselves here at home." Elaine's eyes had softened then, as they again softened now, and nostalgic notes throbbed from the piano. Her three children had departed almost simultaneously from the home nest, leaving the big house very empty. Though she had left much of their care to others, Elaine Page 269 270 had loved her children dearly, even if her accustomed aloofness toward everything except her music had prevented her demonstrating that affection. Under this softening spell, she had agreed rather vaguely that perhaps they had better join the garden group, and she and John had turned to the discussion of other things. THs morning, however, alone at her piano for her usual several hours of practice, her resentment flared anew. John knew how carefully she must guard her hands, those members which had been given such painstaking care for as long, almost, as she could remember. "Your hands are just like Grandmother Elaine's,' her mother had told her, as she was growing through the period of small girlhood. "If we take care of them, you may some day become the great concert pianist which she gave promise of being." And John knows, too, that I don't care for intimate association with people—that most of them bore me, Elaine told herself. This dwelling apart had begun early for Elaine, for while still very young, she had given proof that she had inherited, at least in some measure, her grandmother's gift. Her whole family had been trained by her mother to cherish her "Hands," though not without some grumbling on the part of her two sisters when they had to wash the dishes, scrub the floors, do the laundry, and perform numerous other tasks that the mother had thought would coarsen and stiffen Elaine's cherished fingers. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—APRIL 1946 To do Elaine justice, she had spent long hours practicing and had really become the outstanding musician in the small town where her family lived. Later, due to her mother's indomitable determination, the family's limited resources had been taxed to send her to Salt Lake City for further study. There, she had developed adequately, if not brilliantly. But before many more years had passed, various auditions had proved to her that she lacked the spark of greatness. Rather than admit this, however, she had married John Nomis, a young architect who was fast becoming well established in Denver. This marriage had given her the excuse for not attempting a concert career. They had been able to afford a maid almost from the first days of their life together, and later, a cook and a gardener. John had encouraged her to keep up her music, feeling, as Elaine had agreed, properly contrite that he had accepted so great a sacrifice at her hands. She had soon established herself in the musical circles of Denver, where her services were soon much in demand in connection with various civic enterprises. So meticulously had she devoted herself to her piano ever since that, even now, when she was well over forty, she was still considered one of the city's leading pianists. She was vaguely conscious at times of late, however, that there were better musicians who could take her place and she had to stifle a desire to let down a little—she did have to practice very hard to keep up—and give these younger ones a chance. EMULATING GRANDMOTHER UT habit was stronger than the voice of this inner desire. That was why it had dismayed her s0 sirable employment, Now, she was able to get a woman only twice a week, and that at an exorbitant wage, grateful that she owned sO many Jabor-saving devices and that the place Was in perfect repair, Otherwise, she was sure she could not have managed to keep it up, Something an imPelling force within her had told her tomed tasks, thinking! But, perhaps there be much work for her to do at the garden, after all. Toom and ended in 4 circling landing that gave access to the several Tooms on the second floor. Made from an old tintype and exhibited it proudly, although she laid much more stress on her ancestor's on her Pioneering achievements. Elaine's mind worked that way. Ere was the same oval face, with its wide-set haz. El eyes; the same golden-brown hair, "Grandmother," she told the portrait softly, "I know that if you could give me advice, you would tell me to cherish my ability to play well above was denied you. Well, don't worty, dear, wherever you are. I won't let you down. [']] keep our music where it should be—first and fore. Most. You had to give up your life of culture. I don't have to forsake Grandmother smiled serenely 272 down upon her. Grandmother did not look like a frustrated woman, Elaine thought, uncertainly. Her first few times at the garden bore out Elaine's belief that it would make but few claims upon her. A man who had the implements came to plow and harrow, and she and John drove out to survey the work he had done. Elaine found herself unwillingly aware of the sweetness of the early spting evening. It seemed to her the materialized spirit of great music. As the evening advanced a little, and moonlight whitened the earth, she felt that the silvery cadences of The Moonlight Sonata had become visible beauty. It was not until several weeks later that Elaine began to realize how demanding the garden was to be. John came in one evening to tell her that all of the women who could go would be needed the following evening to help in their first big planting of beans. "Well, I can wear gloves," Elaine promised herself. But the beans were hard to control with gloved hands; too many rolled out at a time. Finally, she removed the gloves and really got interested in placing her beans into the rows as fast as the other women could drop theirs. After a very short time, however, her muscles began to protest. So she was in condition, was she? She remembered her boast to John, and pride made her work doggedly on. Soon she got her "second wind" and was able to finish triumphantly. When John inquired rather anxiously as they were driving home how she felt, she answered that she was fine. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—APRIL 1946 "Not so much out of condition as you would have me believe," she laughed gaily. "Well then," he told her, "you'll be available for the corn planting tomorrow night." HUS it was that Elaine found herself planting corn the following evening. This wasn't as hard as the bean planting had been. She found she could stand upright and toss the kernels exactly where they should go. She helped plant corn again the next evening. However, when John made ready to go to the garden for the fourth consecutive time, Elaine protested. "But you said we'd have to spend only two or three evenings a week there," she reminded him. "So I did," agreed John. "However, the corn must be planted. We should have had it done if we had had a large enough turnout the other evenings, but we didn't, so those of us who will come out will have to complete the job. Of course, you don't need to go unless you want to." But Elaine found she had something within her that wouldn't allow her to be a quitter. She was rather chagrined the next day to find that she was too sleepy to practice effectively. She decided that she had better take a short nap. On her way up to her room, she paused before Grandmother's picture. The eyes above her seemed to twinkle. "I suppose that's why you went on, too," Elaine thought. "When there was a job to be done, you couldn't quit, either." Now, as weeds began to make their appearance, the garden became more and more demanding. Elaine hoed EMULATING GRANDMOTHER without regard for her hitherto carefully tended hands. Blisters and then callouses appeared, but she could not stop. The hoe could not remove the weeds from between the plants, therefore Elaine took off her gloves that she might carefully pull these by hand. Would they ever be able to catch up with the intruders! It seemed not, for there was never more than half of the garden group present to work. "If everyone would come out and help, we could keep this garden looking as it should," she wailed to John. Because the work was so pressing, Elaine found herself reluctant to take time off for the USO. She wasn't really needed there. 'There were others, younger women, who could do the job as well as she could, and she knew that the soldiers, for all their appreciation, preferred that the girls play for their song fests. Therefore, after a few weeks, Elaine automatically put on her slacks and went to the garden each evening. It was payment enough to see those tows of vegetables become clean and sturdy. "Well, Grandmother," she told her ancestor's portrait, as the protests within her subsided and were being replaced by patient content: ment with her exacting work, "I'm getting to know you better, You found joy in doing a worthwhile job tight and were willing to take the consequences, just as I am." Soon the canning season arrived, and the days became crowded from dawn to late at night. To Elaine, it seemed that a new woman was emerging from the aloof, cool chrysalis of her former self, which had dwelt apart as the rather mechanical interpreter of music. The 273 piano was now much neglected; certainly the masters were, for Elaine found that when she sat down to the instrument, new melodies clamored for expression. Her fingers wandered over the keys, striving to give these life. HERE was something of the garden in these melodies and ev- én something of the community canning kitchen and the people who worked there with her. The melodies also held the deep contentment which she felt at the end of each work-filled day. And now she found herself set. Ting down notes: a Piano concerto was being born. She had never dreamed that she might compose! In the concerto she traced wonderingly her contact with reality— with truth. Here, was the mauve of evening, the flame of sunset, the satisfaction of toil, the thythm of growing things, and the expanding of a soul. Here, also, was the fruition of the harvest—the jade, tuby, and gold treasures of the storehouse. Elaine played her composition exultantly. Interpreting the music of others was a delight, but in creating something of truth and beauty herself, her most marvelous experience had come to her. "So that was your secret, Grandmother," she told the portrait after her awakening. "You knew the supreme joy of creating, and your whole life, consequently, made music, 'Tm glad I'm truly like the real. You, now, Grandmother. I am not merely 'Hands,' but mind and heart as well." The inner Elaine has been set free. OFFERINGS Etta S. Robbins Thanks from our hearts we give For blessings small and great, For homes and ties that bind In this estate. For liberty, we still maintain— That heritage sublime; For faith in him of Calvary, Our Lord divine. O Thou, who freely ministers, Supplying all our needs, Accept the offerings we bring words and deeds. Ke SPRING SHADOWS Elsie E. Barrett In A filigree of shadow Is loomed upon the wall From warp of empty branches Whose woof decayed in fall. Now throbbing spring is busy eaving winter's tested mold, and roses, Rew A weft of leaves New patterns from the old. Page 274 The Scar Martha Robeson Wright R. Bowen's hand was gentle on her arm, though his voice was firm. "It could be much worse, you know, Rowena. It's a clean scar; no infection, and it's on the side of your face." Rowena Marshall sat stiff and upright in her chair. Her left hand was moving on her face, following the ridge from the left temple down to her neck. "It isn't fair to have such a scar, just from tripping over a rug. If only that vase hadn't been there. I was always going to get rid of that big ugly thing." "That's the way it is, sometimes," the doctor said. "You musn't worry too much. You know, Rowena, most women would consider themselves lucky to be as good looking as you are, right now, scar included. Well there's nothing more I can do for you. I'll be on my way." "You—you really think a plastic surgeon could take this away?" The doctor closed his bag with a snap. "Absolutely. But it takes a lot of money these days—if you can find a good man who isn't busy patching up the wounded soldiers. Goodbye, Rowena." "Goodbye, Dr. Bowen," she answered dully and allowed him to let himself out of the apartment. When the door closed behind him, Rowena buried her face in her hands. Tears ran through her fingers. Then, as if on puppet strings, she jerkily took her handkerchief from her pocket and dabbed at her eyes. She arose woodenly from her chair and walked to the large oval mirror that hung on the west wall of the pleasantly furnished living room. Her glossy black hair had not begun to whiten. Her large, deep, violet-blue eyes were as flashing as ever, with brows like blackbirds' wings. Long thick lashes threw shadows on her cheeks. Rowena turned her head, first one side to the mirror and then the other. If people could see only the right side of her face, they would not see the scar. But, on the left side, they would see the thin, but rough and jagged line that stood out in contrast against the fine whiteness of her skin, the lovely ears, the classic outline of her jaw. Without the scar, she was lovely. People on the street always turned to watch her. Now they would tum to stare—at the scar! Don would have felt sorry for her, but he would have had more pathy for himself. She could alenast see his handsome face with its golden curls, a huge, blond viking of a man with all the charm and arrogance of a young god, laughing over her shoulder. He loved perfection in everything. "You are beautiful, gorgeous! We belong together. Two perfect specimens," he had always said. When he was in the right mood he was the most thrilling man Rowena had ever known. But he was too mercurial to remain in one tempera: ment for long, and the sudden changPage 275 . 276 es were extremely trying to her emotions. He would be just as dramatic in his penitence as in his anger. THEN, it seemed to Rowena, that Don's personality faded from the mirror, and Basil came into view. Basil, with his kind heart and his patched-up face that showed the patches only when he smiled. Dear Basil. He understood how she felt about her scar. He would never be chagrined because she was not a perfect specimen now. She was glad that it was Basil who was alive instead of Don, though she had loved Don more than anyone in the world. But she couldn't have borne Don's growing indifference because she wore a flaw. Rowena turned away from the mirror and began pacing the room. There was thankfulness in her heart that she was married to Basil now. He would do anything she asked, no matter what the personal sacrifice might be, to make her happy. He knew what her beauty meant. And she was glad that she had been beautiful, for she felt that such loveliness had procured for her everything she had felt worth having in life. Rowena could remember the first time Don had brought Basil home with him. She and Don had just returned to town from their honeymoon. Basil hadn't known Don was married. Don had insisted that his old friend come home with him to dinner and to meet his lovely bride. Rowena had been shocked almost beyond good manners when she saw the left side of Basil's face when he smiled. It hadn't been noticeable when his features were in repose. All that evening she had managed to RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—APRIL 1946 keep her eyes away from the disfigurement. She noticed that Basil always tried to have this unmarred side toward her. When Basil had gone she had asked Don about the scar. "If you must know the truth, my precious, that is the man who saved my life. I might have been the one with the false jaw and the grafted skin. I never could have stood it. I''d have committed suicide. Thank goodness, it's only noticeable on him when he smiles." "Poor thing. He's the kind of a man who has a smiling disposition, too. He rescued you and paid that price? Oh, Don, you owe him such a debt." Don had fidgeted impatiently. "Yes, my dear. He wasahero. He is my best friend. But I hadn't seen him in fifteen years. He was in the hospital and went through so many operations. He sort of kept to himself." "T like him, Don. He is sweet and kind. And very lonely." "Good! We'll be the Three Musketeers." They had been. 'Three good friends until the day Don died; both Rowena and Basil balance wheels for the effervescent Don. Don had been a petulant and exacting patient. He left Rowena with two little boys and no money. His illness had taken everything, and the life insurance went to pay accumulated bills. Rowena stopped her pacing by the living room windows to look out and see the cold bleakness outside. It was on just such a day that Basil had asked her to marry him. It had surprised her. It had never occurred to her that he would have the temerity to think that she would THE SCak marry him. It presented a way out of her difficulties. Basil would be a good father to the children, and he loved her. She knew that if she hadn't been beautiful he would not have asked her to marry him. He didn't expect too much of her. He had said, "I know it couldn't be like it was with Don; but we aren't youngsters now. I want to take care of you and the boys." He had taken care of them. Her life with Basil had become sweet, peaceful, gracious. She had never known such a quiet happiness. The boys were grown now, and in college trying to complete their studies before being called into the army. Basil had been successful in business, though now things were becoming a bit difficult. He gave her everything she wanted. His sympathy over her accident had given her the courage to face things. He said very little; it hadn't been necessary. It was all there in his gentle eyes. He would think of some way that would enable them to get the money for a plastic operation. She would have to ask him more about it when he came home. The sound of a key in the latch caused Rowena to turn from the window. "Anybody home?" called Basil from the front hall. She hurriedly replaced her handkerchief, and pushed back her hair. "In the living room," she said. Basil came in, his cheeks red with the cold. He looked happy. "You're home early." He took her hands. News. Want to hear it?" "Of course." ""Let's sit down." He led her to the sofa, and sat down, as he always did, automatical- "T've good 277 ly, so she could see the right side of his face. Only now, he could see the left side of her face. "T've managed to get some money to have that scar taken away. Dr. Condon, the best in the world, is here at the Veteran's Hospital doing some special work. He'll do it." She sat quite still. "Basil, it would take an awful lot of money." "T have five thousand dollars." Her eyes filled with tears. "Oh, Basil, you are wonderful!" "IT want my wife to be happy," he said softly. "I—I suppose men take things differently. Your face—I—I suppose you have become so accustomed to it that you forget you have the scar." He did not speak for a moment. Then he shrugged his shoulders. "My face doesn't matter. I've never been beautiful." OWENA sat stunned. In a flash she knew what she had never been sensitive enough to realize before. Basil had never become accustomed to his disfigurement. He had gone through his first realizations of things just as she had done. He might not have been beautiful, but that was not the point. Feeling the pity of his friends and family as they tried to appear casual about his scar must have been torture. But Basil's scar had taught him tolerance, understanding, and kindness. Her scar had taught her nothing but self-pity. Basil's deep, quiet philosophy of life, she realized, had been the background of her happiness. Her life with Basil, from her point of view, had been based on a compassionate tolerance of his affection, like that of a beauty for one who worships at her shrine. 278 Basil had been a much better father to her sons than Don would have been. They had called him Uncle Basil at first, but it soon became shortened to Basil. Then, no one knew exactly when, he had become "Dad." Rowena knew she had been a good wife. She had never given herself to him unreservedly; but he hadn't expected her to. He had said so. He had been happy to bask in the warmth of her lovely graciousness, a family man with a hearth to warm his toes and the children's laughter to warm his heart. It came to her now, in this moment of self-revelation, that she had never tried to understand his real feelings. His one thought, and hers, had been for her happiness. She knew now what she wanted to do. Basil put his hand in hers as it rested on the cushion of the sofa. "Aren't you happy?" She curled her fingers inside of his but did not look at him. "S-suppose I didn't want the operation?" she said softly. His hand convulsed quickly over hers. "It's all right. I have the money. We won't go into debt. I RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—APRIL 1946 know, you see, how it feels to be marred. You're so lovely, I couldn't bear to see you so hurt." "T'm not so lovely with the scar, I know. But I think I'll keep it. To keep me humble. It may grow fainter after awhile. Unless—unless you feel that it spoils my appearance too much. I know most men marry first with their eyes." He released her hand and stood, facing her. "Your scar doesn't matter to me. Did you think I married you because you were beautiful? Haven't you realized what a contrast we make? I loved you for your gallant spirit with Don, your kindness to me. And, I knew Don's nature much better than you. You—you and the boys have given me the most wonderful years a man ever had. These are the things that count. Beautiful faces grow just as old and wrinkled as the plain ones." Rowena arose to face him, her eyes level with his. Her arms went around his neck. As he began to understand her, a flush of happiness spread over his face. His eyes were illumined by what he saw in her eyes. She kissed him. On the left side of his face. SPRING Beatrice K. Ekman The April sky is blue and clear; After the gentle fall of rain Warm sunlight floods the fields again The spring, the spring is here! = FROM THE FIELD Margaret C. Pickering, General Secretary-Treasurer Regulations governing the submittal of material for "Notes from the Field" appear in the Magazine for February 1944, page 104. MESSAGES FROM THE MISSIONS (Continued) New England Mission, Concord Branch (New Hampshire) FROM the New England Mission where Sister Bertha S. Reeder is President of the Relief Society, the following communication has been received from the Concord Branch through Sister Donna S. Fletcher, President: "T understand that with the establishment of this Relief Society, that now we have a Relief Society in every state in the Union. Even though New Hampshire was the last state to have a Relief Society, I feel that our little group has made great progress in its year of organization. "We hold meetings every Tuesday. Every member except myself is a convert to the Church. Sometimes our members are few, as the NEW ENGLAND MISSION, CONCORD (NEW HAMPSHIRE) BRANCH RELIEF SOCIETY Left to right: Violet and Edna Jessman, Lela Hammond, Stella Jessman; Jennie Anderson, First Counselor; Donna S. Fletcher, President; Geril Monahan. Beatrice Smith, Secretary, was not present when the photograph was taken. Page 279 heavy snowstorms and distance of travel make it impossible for everyone to attend regularly. "Last year we made a quilt and sent it, along with many bundles of clothing, to the New England mission home. My husband and I, as natives of Utah, are greatly enjoying our work in the Church in Concord. We feel it a privilege to be able to have so many wonderful people with whom to associate. May God bless The Relief Society Magazine for the fine service it renders." Southern States Mission EFF IE MEEKS, Relief society President, Southern States Mission, writes under date of October 20, 1945: "We are happy to get back to work after such an inspiring conference. I feel now as if I might be able to do double duty, and in fact, we have had it to do since we came back. Work really piles up when one is away for awhile. "Enclosed is the picture of the pillowcases which I promised to send you. These were all made from feed sacks and the women drew their own designs. They were made by the Sylacauga Branch in Alabama. In order to bleach the lettering from the sacks they are soaked in bleaching solutions, 'following directions on the package. "The Georgia District started a cookbook several years ago by gathering favorite recipes from people in their district and also from all mission president's wives that have been in the South. The book has never been completed and now I have an idea that I would like to suggest to them, that we encourage RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—APRIL 1946 all the women of the Mission to contribute their favorite recipes and make it a real Southern State's cookbook." Danish Mission THE following excerpts from a letter written to Second Counselor Gertrude R. Garff from Sister Eva Gregersen of the Danish Mission will prove of interest to Relief Society members everywhere: "President Benson and two other American elders here were supposed to arrive tomorrow, Saturday, and stay over Sunday. Suddenly my husband came running home and told me that they had arrived unexpectedly and that President West was not at home until later, so we had better go down to the mission home and help entertain them until President West came. "Oh, what a lovely time we had! The new apostle seems to be a very wonderful man. I was just thrilled to sit and listen to him. It was just like the good old days to have Americans around again. I am sure we will have some wonderful meetings on Sunday. "We have had many people out to the meetings lately. One of the reasons, I am sure, is that we have received these wonderful gifts from you, our dear friends of the United States. We have all received something. Especially am I happy for the wonderful blanket and the good quilt. Every member has received some kind of blanket or quilt, and I can tell you that it is badly needed. Ole [her son] got a nice pair of pants. It is his only pair. To say that we are thankful is putting it mildly, overwhelmed is the better word." NOTES FROM THE FIELD 28) SOUTHERN STATES MISSION, SYLACAUGA BRANCH (ALABAMA) HAND-EMBROIDERED PILLOWCASES Pillowcases made from feed sacks, with original embroidery designs made by the Relief Society members. Photograph submitted by Effie Meeks, President Southern States Mission Relief Society. 282 Samoan Mission j= OQ. ADAMS, President of the Samoan Mission, reports an interesting activity in the islands: "Annually, in Samoa, the Relief Society goes over the mission with a fine-tooth comb inspecting, scrutinizing, pondering, suggesting, commending, condemning, judging, and even fining! It is a procedure effected in the spirit of kindness and the genuine desire to help raise the standards of the family, and hence of the Church as well. May we briefly follow such a group? "Relief Society officers and members of all ages are arranged in groups convenient in size and in proximity to the field to be inspected. The date is fixed so that each district knows when to expect the goingover. "T saw one group in very efficient jovial operation at Pesega Mission headquarters. How the dozen keeneyed sisters, all faultlessly gowned, chuckled when one of them hoisted an office chair on our desk and found dust on its underside! They went over our spacious domicile from cellar to garret—then ended up with the proverbial singing and dancing that make Samoa what it is—a land of music, rhythm, and joy. "Where I have observed the plan in operation, it produces good results. Each family gets out all its dishes, utensils, bedding, mats, pillows, sheets, blankets, clothing, etc. All are expected to be clean, mended, and usable. First, the visiting party all bathe and change into clean clothes, and have the customary greetings of speeches, etc. It is the custom to give the people being visited crackers and cocoa. Then, the work is begun. A scrutinizing peep RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—APRIL 1946 —or more than a peep—is taken of the house and its contents and surroundings. If all is up to requirements, all well and good, the family receives commendation. If not, kindly and constructive criticism and suggestions are made, and the family may even be fined a few shillings, which goes into the Relief Society fund. "A house of a certain size requires a certain number of coarse floor mats, with better ones covering them, as the pebble floor would soon ruin the finer top ones. The same applies to fine beautiful bed mats. The woven shutters, which are always raised high unless it is raining hard, are part of the requirements. Pillows are filled with the native 'tree' cotton. Many families have mattresses made of this cotton and it serves well. The sisters also work beautiful designs on pillowcases in colored thread, also, on bedspreads, doilies, etc. There must be enough of everything to make the home comfortable for all its occupants—enough mosquito nets, for instance. If the house leaks, renovation is pointed out as a pressing need. If the ground about the house is littered or weedy (and it seldom is in Samoa), pressure is brought to bear to have it cleaned. If cooking utensils and dishes are insufficient, getting some cheap ones is recommended. In no case are hardships imposed upon anyone, for almost any native can cut, dry, and sell enough coconuts to buy these necessities and comforts. "So these middle-aged and older Relief Society sisters of Samoa, with their unique, consistent and_ thorough system of encouraging their members to maintain model homes and surroundings, are pioneers in NOTES FROM THE FIELD 283 what might wel] be followed elseby bit, so 4s to make Cakes, Cookies where, Many a home in the U. S. A. And candies. Some of the members would not Pass inspection in Sa. Donated Sugar and others took the moa!" time to Prepare cakes, etc. Ma. North Western States Mission 00s Bay ( Oregon) Branch tuffs < forth' wh MARTHA HUNT, Preident of time rollale ——— 208 Bay Branch (Oregon © Teceipts this year were work to make it 4 success and saved is no task too big for the Coos Bay their Sugar throughout the year, bit Relief Society.' " ESTERN STATES MISSION GON) BRANCH RELIEF SOCIETY Standing, left to right: Wilma Smith; Lucille Guinan, Literature Leader; Hannah in Northwestern States Mission Juneau (Alaska) Branch RYELYN P. TANNER, President of the Juneau (Alaska) Branch Relief Society, describes a sacrament meeting program and other interesting activities: "March 4th (1945) the branch presidency gave the time in sacrament meeting allotted to speakers to the Relief Society. We carried out the program suggested in the Bulletin as closely as possible for our small group. The dialogue, all the talks, and: most of the musical selections were given. We enjoyed preparing and carrying out this program which was acclaimed as very interesting by the audience. "For further commemoration, on March 8th, our business and social evening, we prepared a special lunchRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—APRIL 1946 eon for our group and spent the evening sewing and relating reasons for our interest in Relief Society and the great need we have for the association and the uplift and knowledge we receive from the activities." Northwestern States Mission Buckley (Washington) Branch NORA SMITH, President of Buckley Branch Relief Society, reports on a very successful bazaar: "The Relief Society bazaar and bake sale of the Buckley Branch of the Northwestern States mission was held December 5, 1945, in the Relief Society rooms of our church and was very successful. The members began preparing for the bazaar immediately following the New Year and worked willingly and diligently all through the regular year, as well NORTHWESTERN STATES MISSION JUNEAU (ALASKA) BRANCH RELIEF SOCIETY Back row, standing, left to right: Margaret Skinner, Trudy Nielsen, Ruth Bost, Doris Clift, Doris McClellan, Ethel Westfall, Norrine Kunz. Seated, left to right: Vesta Lorz, Secretary-Treasurer,; Maude Kunz, First Counselor; Evelyn P. Tanner, President; Una Kershaw, Second Counselor. NOTES ROM THE FIELD 285 as meeting once each week duting raisin bread, cakes, pies; cookies, the summet months. One hundred candy and popcorn balls. Proceeds seventy pieces were made, which infrom the sale were very satisfactory - cluded one satin quilt, other quilts, There are thirteen members in the jllowcases, tea towels, juncheon branch, all of whom are willing sets, aprons, shopping bags, clothesworkers. We took in $268 at our pin bags, laundry bags, dolls, sewing bazaar. This money is being used bags and doilies. Out bake sale conto furnish out Relief Society with 3 sisted of W ite, d beautiful new stove, dishes, etc." see Peek. Ers = NORTHWESTERN STATES MISSION, BUCKLEY (WASHINGTON) BRANCH RELIEF SOCIETY BAZAAR Left to right: Nora Smith, President, Arvilla Loomis, First Counselor; Rubs Smith, Secretary; Henrietta Fisher, Nettie Blessing, Bette Blessing, June Klink, Helen Gene Romolo [f a thousand springs, for me, should come and go Of each one, 1 would poignantly. Remember The April tears an smiles that pring the cup Of tulip, crocus, and the daffodil, And from a brown pulb, Easter blooms lift up No longét walks, each spring has prought to me Assurance of his love's infinity. Se GOD MUST LOVE THE BEAUTIFUL Mabel Jones Gabbott God must love the beautiful; He made his world so fair, He crowned the earth with hills that stand Jewelled in the high blue air; He nestled lakes among the trees, And curved the seas with care. God must love the beautiful; His heaven, high and free, Splashed with brilliant patterned stars In chorused harmony, Circles round about his world, With gleaming symmetry. God must love the beautiful, What colors he has planned: Pink and white of blossomed trees, Ocean-tinted sand, Greening fields, and earth-brown clod— All fashioned by his hand. Sie Page 286 Let's Make Dickies GPRING is here in all its glory. How about a "Dickie Day" for the Work-Meeting Tuesday? A change of dickies gives an old suit a teal rejuvenation. Where shall we get the material? Dickies require comparatively small pieces of material and they are easily cut. The only shaping necessary is at the neck, back and front, and a slight slope to the shoulder. Let's look in the scrap bag. Here is a piece of lawn. A twenty-inch length by a_ twelve-inch width will make a plain front. A strip one-inch wide, when finished down the front with narrow rickrack, and a bow at the neck to match, makes an interesting finishing. If there is enough material, the back of the dickie may be cut of the same material as the front. If not, a bleached sugar sack will do as well. Make an opening in the center back seven or eight inches long. 'This same style works nicely with plain or corded rayon and rayon rickrack. Tape is placed about one inch from the bottom and tied on each side to hold the dickie firm. Now, find a piece of georgette about seventeen inches wide and twenty inches long, plus some scraps for a bow, and we shall soon have another dickie. This one will be pintucked in groups of threes, three C4 = groups on each side of the front. Shape the neck, then make a net back which has an eight or nine inch opening down the center back, and bind the neck with a bias piece of the georgette. At the center front, place a bow made of a double piece of georgette. Pin tucks, lace, and insertion will work together effectively in a dickie of either lawn or batiste. A frilly jabot may be added; or the dickie may be left with a plain neck. A discarded organdy evening dress may be used to advantage in making sheer dickies. The tail of a man's shirt makes a neat, easily laundered dickie. These, and many otherwise unused materials, may be used advantageously in a "Dickie Day Project." Page 287 = == = a — RELIEF SOCIETY GIFTS FOR MOTHER'S DAY Gift Cards Included When Requested Wicial Keliof Society in No. 1 Pin of blue baked French hard enamel and 24 carat gold-plated. Price $1.20, postpaid. No. 2 Pin of blue baked French hard enamel and 10 carat solid-gold front gold filled, with 24-carat gold-plated back. Price $2.00, postpaid. Both pins are identical as to design, size, and coloring, and bear the organization date. 1842. These prices include Federal excise tax. _A Contenary of Kelief Society A panorama of Relief Society's first hundred years in picture and story, containing much material heretofore unpublished. Invaluable to all Relief Society workers. Bound in a blue paper book cover, with its title 'A Centenary of Relief Society'' and the centennial insignia beautifully embossed in gold. 96 pages. Size 9x12 inches. Over 500 pictures of historical interest. Special price 50 cents per copy. Postpaid. Kelief Society Magazine Kindor A durable binder of blue imitation leather stamped in gold with the name of the Magazine. Into which twelve single copies of The Relief Society Magazine may be inserted or removed at will. A great convenience to all stake and ward Relief Society officers, class leaders, and to all Magazine subscribers who like to keep a current year's issue of the Magazine together. Price $1.20 postpaid. ADDITIONAL SONGS Still available are the additional songs issued in 1941 for insertion in the Song Book at 15 cents for the set of three—'In Thy Form,'' "A Song of Triumph."' and "'O Father, Keep Us We Pray." All articles listed above are obtainable only from General Board of Relief Society, 28 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City 1, Utah. NO LONGER AVAILABLE The supply of Relief Society centennial plates and of Relief Society Song Books is entirely exhausted, and the General Board is not at present planning to restock them. OUR LEGACY—Relief Society Centennial Anthology of Verse—out of print. X =e —— = = Page 288 SINCE 1863... AT YOUR BOOKSTORE You can trust the National trademark... For more than three quarters of a century it has been found on fine Bibles. There is one to fill your every need. KING JAMES VERSION M-U's:'I-C SPECIALLY SUITABLE FOR RELIEF SOCIETY I LOVE A LITTLE COTTAGE (OvMGnea)) =e ee FLAG WITHOUT A STAIN (White) BLESS THIS HOUSE __...............15 GOD IS LOVE (Shelley) - ALICE BLUE GOWN (Tierney) —_. PEACE I LEAVE WITH YOU (Roberts) _... £ AG Above numbers in octavo. Less 10% discount plus postage. We specialize in L. D. S. Church music. Also carry large stock for schools and home use. Dealers in Steinway and Lester pianos, band and orchestra instruments, talking machines, records and musicians' supplies. DAYNES MUSIC CO. We solicit your patronage 57 So. Main St. Salt Lake City 1 National b IBLES Books Every Director off Music Should Have at Hand Essentials of Conducting BY J. SPENCER CORNWALL Director of the Salt Lake Tabernacle Choir and former Supervisor of 50c Music in Salt Lake City Schools. Paper-bound TWENTY LESSONS IN CONDUCTING BY KARL WILSON GEHRKENS 60c By simple diagrams and clear text, these books show the proper method of obtaining best results from small or large groups of singers. Mail orders filled promptly. DESERET BOOK COMPANY "BOOK CENTER OF THE INTERMOUNTAIN WEST" 44 East South Temple P. O. Box 958 Salt Lake City 10, Utah When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine U. S. POSTAGE 2c Paid SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH PERMIT No. 690 at "Thono's No Place Like Home!" As worn as this phrase is, the sentiment it expresses will always be true. There is no substitute for a home with its children's laughter and a mother's love. Parents—make sure that your family will always enjoy the protection and security of a home. You can protect yourself and those dependent upon you from the uncertainty of tomorrow by investing in life insurance. BENEFICIAL LIFE HOME OFFICE——-BENEFICIAL LIFE BUILDING SALT Lake City 1. UTAH GEORGE ALBERT SMITH, PRESIDENT THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Monthly publication of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints RELIEF SOCIETY GENERAL BOARD Belle S. Spafford - Marianne C. Ser - Gertrude R. Garf - Margaret C. Pickering - 2 = - - President = © - First Counselor 5 - - Second Counselor - - - Secretary-Treasurer Achsa E. Paxman Anna B. Hart Florence J. Madsen Blanche B. Stoddard Marv G. Judd Edith S. Elliott; Ann ©. Nibley Evon W. Peterson Luella N. Adams Priscilla L. Evans Leone G. Layton Leone O. Jacobs Velma N. Simonsen RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Editor - - - - - - - - - - Marianne C. Sharp Editorial Secretary - - - - - - - - Vesta P. Crawford General Manager - - - - - - - - Belle S. Spafford Vol. 33 MAY 1946 No. 5 Con tents SPECIAL FEATURES Three Miniatures From Life: The Mothers of the First Presidency.................... Luacine C. Fox 291 In Memoriam: President Louise Y. Robison Kate M. Barker 295 Women Poets in Review—Part I as Anna Boss Hart 298 Are We Protecting Our Children? Leone O. Jacobs 302 The Gift of the Genie LaRene King Bleecker 310 FICTION "Filleth the Hungry Soul'' Frances C. Yost 305 Faith Is a Heritage—Chapter 2... Christie Lund Coles 318 GENERAL FEATURES Sixty Years Ago 314 Woman's Sphere: Ramona W. Cannon 315 Editorial: Return of Spring a Vesta P. Crawford 316 In Memoriam: Pauline Taggart Pingree 317 The Magazine Honor Roll for 1945........ General Secretary-Treasurer, Margaret C. Pickering 322 Notes From the Field General Secretary-Treasurer, Margaret C. Pickering 345 Comments From Magazine Readers ee 355 Comments From Magazine Writers.........--.-..------sec-cscecececeseceeeeseeneeeones 356 Work Meeting: Grosgrain Ribbon Handbag.... 358 POETRY To Louise Y. Robison—Frontispiece Alice Morrey Bailey 289 I Heard a Robin Singing soe Zara Sabin 301 Mother's Day Greeting...0.0.......-....: coccc-c-ceeceseeeeeeeees Robert Layton 304 Co {| EE Delsa Davis McBride 309 The Teacher:.. = Mary E. Abel 317 Mother of Mine _.. AsescenecseccsececcetesscsaresesenenencenszsnsereneyVernessa M. Nagle 321 Relief Society Magazine -. May Weight Johnson 353 Mother's Notebook..00.0.2.......---.---------- a Dott J. Sartori 354 Meadow Lark o........ Eseecceeeceene soesecnevenenene cece nnns se TST cu 6S on 00555 Roberta Bates 360 PUBLISHED MONTHLY BY THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY Editorial and Business Offices: 28 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City 1, Utah, Phone 3-2741. Ex. 243. Subscription Price: $1.00 a year; foreign, $1.00 a year; payable in advance. Single copy, 10c. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving both old and new address, Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts. MAGAZINE CIRCULATION, 74,000 Sunset Divine.......... Semenenececreecersererusneserecesensaveasenseveceecececeeneessacr entree rer=an aPauline Kirkwood 313 THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE TO LOUISE Y. ROBISON (Born, May 27, 1866—Died, March 30, 1946) Alice Morrey Bailey She was like a beacon on a hill, Throughout the dark, depressive night. Her still And radiant presence never failed; no hand Was stretched to her in vain. Across a land Bowed low with burden, shadowed long with fears, She cast a path of faith. Eleven years She gave of all she was: a heart that wept For underprivileged waifs, a head that kept Serene through storm and stress, and arms that reached In charity to all who asked her help—beseeched. She aided all, but left the touch of friend, Sincere and warm. Before the dark day's end She left her people strong, prepared, and girt Against a greater time of tragedy and hurt. Wisdom marked her task, now done at length. Achievement was her light, the Lord her strength— And these she passed to all—the weak, the proud. She graced a sacred trust, and walked unbowed. A queen she was in bearing, pride, and face— A noble woman in a noble place. The Cover: "Spring Symphony" Photograph by Grace O. Tuttle VOL. 33, NO. 5 MAY 1946 Three Miniatures from Life The Mothers of the First Presidency Luacine C. Fox ARAH FARR SMITH Mother of President George Albert Smith "President Smith, what qualities in your mother have had most influence in your life?" I was sitting in his spacious, woodpaneled office as I awaited his teply. President George Albert Smith answered me at once, quietly and simply, "Her tenderness, her devotion to her children—there were eleven of us, you know." I hadn't known. He told me she had been a "real mother" and he added, with a little smile, "Of course, to us, she was the best mother in the world." He n to reminisce: "When I was a little fellow, just getting so I could climb the stairs, I remember mother took me by the hand, led me up the stairs into the bedroom where my crib was, and, sitting by my crib, she had me kneel. She took both my little hands in hers and taught me how to pray, and do you know the prayer she taught me?" When I shook my head, he tepeated the simple words of the wellloved child's prayer: Now I lay me down to sleep, I pray the Lord my soul to keep, And if I die, before I wake, I pray the Lord my soul to take. "And even then," he continued, "young as I was, that prayer went through me, and I felt confidence in it. I felt secure." He told me of another incident— the only time when he willfully disobeyed his mother. "She took a little willow stick and marched me into the kitchen and was about to whip me with it, but I took hold of both her hands and wouldn't let her do it." "What did she do, then?" I asked him. " 'Why,' she said, 'I'm not going to whip you, Son. If you're old enough to know you can stap me by holding my hands, then you're too old to be whipped,' and she never did it again." we ew *e President Smith's mother, Sarah Farr Smith, was the daughter of Lorin Farr and Nancy Chase Farr. She was born in Salt Lake City, 30 October, 1849, in a house that stood on West Temple Street between First and Second North. When she was still a child, the family moved to Ogden, Utah, where she remained until her marriage to John Henry Smith, 20 October, 1866. Then she returned to Salt Lake City and made it her permanent home. Sister Smith was never well, and therefore unable to take an active part in the Church. Her home duties Page 29] 292 and the care of her beloved children occupied all of her time. She did enjoy traveling, and often accompanied her husband on his trips when his calling as an apostle took him to different parts of the United States, and even to Mexico. After a well-spent life, and after rearing a splendid family, she passed away in February 1921. As I listened to President Smith's words — words of love, of respect, the words of a devoted son about his mother, the thought came to me— what joy she must know now her son—the child she had bome and reared and taught—had been chosen by the Lord to be the Prophet, Seer and Revelator of the Church on earth. Surely no greater reward could come to a woman for years of patient service to her children, for the diligent, persevering teaching of her son. As I looked back over the brief glimpse I had been given into these lives, I thought again of the child by a crib, a small boy being taught the words of a simple prayer—the faith he had in that prayer. I seemed to see him mature, a mother's devoted care constantly strengthening that faith; a mother teaching him the gospel, patiently and tenderly. I saw him now—even as he sat there —and was enriched by the power of righteousness I felt in him and the inspiration that came to me from him. What a glorious role is that played by the Latter-day Saint mother who works in partnership with God to train her sons for labor in the gospel of Jesus Christ. And, truly, Sarah Farr Smith, mother of President George Albert Smith, was an outstanding mother in Israel. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1946 MéAkY LOUISA WOOLLEY Clark, Mother of J. Reuben Clark, Jr. First Counselor in the First Presidency President Clark, in reply to my question concerning his mother, Mary Louisa Woolley Clark, said this, "Among my mother's teachings, best remembered, are these: First, and above all else, be chaste, tell the truth no matter what follows. "Bear your own troubles uncomplainingly, without inflicting them on others. "Do your full duty always and do not expect praise or reward for doing it. "Do whatever you have to do in the best way you can. "Be humble, not boastful; let other people do the bragging. "Work; be honest; don't cheat. "Be fair, considerate, respectful of the rights of others. "Don't carry tales. "Live so that you will not disgrace yourself or your family. "Try always to be a real, genuine man. "Be loyal to every trust, to your family, your friends, your Church, your country, and your God." In this statement I found the strength, the indomitable courage, the determination, and deep-rooted faith of President Clark himself. I knew that his mother must have been a remarkable woman—and I found that she was. Xe ke & Mary Louisa Woolley was born 5 July, 1848, in what is now Keith County, Nebraska. Her father, Edwin Dilworth Woolley, and THREE MINIATURES FROM LIFE mother, Mary Wickersham Woolley, were on the way to Utah. They stopped on the evening of the 4th of July. Mary Louisa Woolley was born, and the journey was continued the following morning. Once in Salt Lake, Mary Louisa's father built a home near the old Social Hall. When a child of seven or eight years, she took a prize at the city fair, for being the "best specimen of pioneer days" —and this was because she was wearing a homespun dress held together, not with buttons, nor with pins, but with thorns from bushes in City Creek Canyon. She used to spin yarn, as a girl, and she assisted Rachel Grant (mother of the late President Heber J. Grant) in making men's shirts which were sold at the Z. C. M. I. Much of her time was spent in St. George, Utah, where some of her brothers lived. She was active in Church functions and socials there, taking part in musicals and dramatics as well. She was twenty-one when she met Joshua Reuben Clark, Sr., and she married him two years later in the Endowment House. Sister Clark led a rich life—a hard life. She and her husband pioneered in their early married life. Their first home was a log house in Tooele County, which her husband had built with his own hands. Her life was full of work. President Clark remembers her doing her heavy washing in the winter evenings, and hanging it out and coming back into the house with her hands so cold that she buried them in his thick hair to warm them. He remembers massaging her feet and ankles for 293 her when they ached at the end of a busy day. And her days were very busy ones, with ten children to rear. But with it all, she was uncomplaining and brave. She passed on to her son her love of life, her love of the soil. He has her fearless courage—her unwavering testimony of the gospel. He is a son of whom she was justly proud. She was the mother who helped endow him with those qualities which the Lord has required of him as First Counselor in the First Presidency of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. ENNETTE EVANS McKAY Mother of David O. McKay, Second Counselor in the First Presidency. President David O. McKay has paid many tributes to his mother, Jennette Evans McKay, but to me none of them is more beautifu than these: "I cannot think," he said, "of a womanly virtue that my mother did not possess. Undoubtedly, many a youth, in affectionate appreciation of his mother's love and unselfish devotion, can pay his mother the same tribute, but I say this in the maturity of manhood when calm judgment should weigh facts dispassionately." "The older I grow, the more deeply grateful I am for the life and influence of a perfect mother." Every woman dreams of hearing her son or daughter say such things! And every Latter-day Saint mother longs with every fiber of her being to set her son's feet on the path of right and to help him tread that path throughout his sojourn on earth. Every mother seeks to instill in her 294 son the love of the beautiful, the respect for and ideals of womanhood that President David O. McKay has; the gentleness, the kindliness, that enfold every deed of this righteous man. We ek Kk His mother, Jennette Evans McKay, was born in Coefu Coed, Glamorganshire, Wales, 28 August, 1850, just three months after her parents, Thomas Evans and Margaret Powell Evans, with their older children, had become members of the Church. On July 8, 1856, the family arrived in Iowa, having set sail from Wales the preceding May. They stayed for nearly three years in Iowa, finding it quite a change from Wales, while Jennette's father prepared constantly for the journey to Utah. They left for Utah in the private company of Captain Buzzard. They had good wagons, splendid horses, and they took along a cow, so that they were supplied with fresh milk and butter along the way. On the 18th of August, 1859, they arrived in Salt Lake City, and, after a brief stay of two weeks, moved on to Ogden where they made their home—which was a happy home. Jennette married David McKay, April 9, 1867, after which they went to Huntsville and lived on a large farm not far from an Indian reservation. She was ever ready to make any sacrifice for the sake of the gospel. Not long before the birth of one of her children, when the call came for her husband to go across the ocean RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1946 on a mission, she unhesitatingly insisted that he go, though it left her not only without her dearly beloved husband, but with the full responsibility of the farm and the children. She knew that he would be gone when her next child should be born, but she carried on unflinchingly. The relationship between President McKay's mother and father was a beautiful thing. 'There existed between them a bond of love and devotion rarely found. To him she was always the lovely, brown-eyed girl he had first seen, sitting on the tongue of a wagon, looking as pretty as a picture in her pink sunbonnet. To her he was her strength, her protector, the loving father of her children. In her home, she was a charming hostess. Her fragrant flower garden supplied many a bouquet for shutins and funerals. She served in the Relief Society and in the Mutual Improvement Association. She was the mother of ten children, children who loved her devotedly, who built their lives around her teachings. It is no wonder President McKay wrote this about her: My Mother! God bless youl Your purity of soul, Your faith, your tenderness, Your watchful care, Your supreme patience, Your companionship and trust, Your loyalty to nght, Your help and inspiration to father, Your unselfish devotion to us children— These and every other virtue that contibute to ideal motherhood, I associate with you, My Mother! Gn Mlemoriam President Louise Y. Robison Counselor to Sister Robison in the Relief Society General Presidency (This address was delivered at the funeral services for Sister Robison held in the Assembly Hall, Salt Lake City, Utah, Thursday, April 4, 1946.) ODAY, for the first time, I have the responsibility of speaking in this building without Sister Robison at my side. On all other occasions, knowing that I was frightened, she would reach her hand out to mine and say, "You can do it." And somehow, when she said this, we stood up and with the help of the Lord did our best. I feel that she is encouraging me now, that I can see her sweet smile and that she is telling me that no matter if I fail to express adequately what is in my heart, she knows what I feel and think, and how ardently I would love to give fitting utterance to my and your admiration and love. I am sure that all our hearts are filled to overflowing with pride and gratitude. We are proud that one whom we love so dearly has gloriously prepared herself for a greater work. We are proud of the honor. Sister Robison brought to the Church and to the Relief Society in all the contacts she made, national and international. We are proud that we are numbered among her friends. We are deeply grateful for her lovely self, for her beautiful life, that we were so blessed as to be permitted to work with her. We a grateful that she was our presient. There is sadness in our hearts for we know that something lovely has gone from our lives. No more will come those precious letters so full of love and encouragement, that always came when needed. She gave us so much of sweetness, she poured so much of warmth into our hearts. How we shall miss her! But we know that our sorrow is for our own great loss. We know that this is a glorious day for Sister Robison — Commencement Day — and that she graduated with the highest honors. We know that her beautiful, radiant personality, her charm, her poise, her captivating sense of humor, her graciousness, her sympathy, her great love, her abiding testimony —all of those qualities which made her a great leader, so lovable and beloved—will go with her and be intensified in her new sphere of activity. Someone has said that the happiest person is the one who thinks the most interesting and beautiful thoughts, and that such a person never grows old, but grows happier as the years pass. This was true of Sister Robison. The last time I talked with her she was not well. Though nothing could dim her radiant spirit, her delightful humor, yet I sensed a yearning of her soul for higher things, for greater service. Page 295. Kate M. Barker PRESIDENT LOUISE Y. ROBISON LOUISE y. ROBISON The Opportunity for Steater service has come. What a wonderful life. Time of service she has given here— © was always Solicitous of the women and so 4PPIeciative of their me. Society was the her plea: "In some of the wards we still find there is lack of hospitality, We go Oa In th kes work go so Smoothly as to be thoughtful and courteous to know 'that you have Sad hearts unheeded From our hearts we thank you We honor you and love you., © face the future with Officers and Sister Robison, We can get so close tO you and fee] human In one of her addresses, She told | Gethsemane, when the Savior, knowing that h - Women Poets in Review Anna Boss Hart Member of the Relief Society General Board PART I OME with me to greet a few C of our women poets in review. We will not linger long today, however great or well-known the poets may be, but you may wish to become better acquainted with them in your home and spend many hours with each one in your own cosy reading nook. You will be in awe of some and treat others as casual friends. This is such an inviting time of the year to greet new and old friends— book friends. Just as soon as there is a tinge of spring in the air and peace in our hearts, we receive new life; we hear overtones in nature; color is richer; life is more abundant. Let us meet some of our women poets whose poetry sings this spring day. Francis Ludlow has said that women—whether real or imaginary— escape all classification. These women who pass in review have a special gift—the gift of poetry, a rare gift. "Poetry is simply the most beautiful, impressive and widely effective mode of saying things," said Matthew Arnold. The poet fixes landmarks that our children's children may see and travel better for seeing. It is true that many a poet "puts out a finger, and leaves a star wherever he touches." A poet is happy when he finds the unwritten poems men live by. Poets often feel symphonies in song that others never hear. How strangely Page 298 susceptible to divine inspiration they are! And now, as we skip the centuries, we greet Sappho whose name has outlasted "floods and hurricanes, the erosions of rain and frost and famine, and all the wars." The beautiful Sappho, a name which the Greeks for more than a thousand years placed next to that of the great Homer. Her image was stamped upon coins. She loved nature and had the power to express in striking language the living beauty of her surroundings. Sappho had the power to be direct, intense, strong—that "wondrous creature without comparison during her time." In the words of the ancient epigram: Sappho's white, speaking pages of deaf song Yet linger with us, and will linger long. During Sappho's time the genius of women developed itself to a degree unsurpassed for a thousand years. In the highlands of her home country, Lesbos, women enjoyed more culture than elsewhere. She was one of the founders of the lyric poetry of the world. Alcaeus, her townsman, and one who shared the honor of being a founder of lyric poetry, addressed to her these exquisite lines: Violet-crowned, pure, sweetly smiling Sappho. WOMEN POETS IN REVIEW Few facts of her life are known. She was born in 612 B. C. No doubt she knew by heart her Homer and Hesiod. Many were her admirers, and one fortunate admirer won her hand. By him she had a daughter, named after her own mother, Cleis: I have a little maid, as fair As any golden flower, My Cleis dear, For whom I would not take all Lydia, Nor lovely Lesbos here. What a picture of the southern summer, with its noonday siesta in _ the open air, we have in her lines: The lullaby of waters cool Through apple boughs is softly blown, And shaken from the rippling leaves, Sleep droppeth down. She knew, too, that she herself would not be easily forgotten: I think there will be memory of us yet, In after days. 299 Sappho lived to a ripe old age, and died leaving a name which Plato called the "tenth muse." xe Ke OW we will meet one of the greatest of the singing women of England, who lived centuries after Sappho. She is Christina Georgina Rossetti, whose matchless lyrics cause her to loom above other women of her period. She was born in London, December 5, 1830, of Italian origin, daughter of Gabriel Rossetti, a well-known commentator on Dante. We can imagine the four Rossetti children in the garret spending the time together before their bedtime. Chnistina, the youngest of the four, would be listening to Maria tread aloud, while her brothers, Gabriel and William, colored prints. Already, as a young child, Christina was fteligious and reflective. At eighteen she resembled Gabriel's A Perry Picture SAPPHO From a Painting by Alma Tadema (1836-1912) A Perry Picture ELIZABETH BARRETT BROWNING (1806-1861) painting of Mary, the Virgin, for which she had posed. Within Christina there was a "keen, white sharpness, protecting, like a coat of armor, something she held above the treasures of the world." One would not expect this when her outward appearance was soft and womanly. Her poetry reflected her life. Sometimes, painting her sheets of paper, knitting, or going about her duties, she looked on the world with shining eyes: My heart is like a singing bird Whose nest is in a watered shoot; My heart is like an apple tree Whose boughs are bent with thickset fruit; My heart is gladder than all these Because my love is come to me.... "Song" and "Remember," and RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1946 many others of her exquisite poems should be read and reread. As she grew older she seemed to become a younger sister of her mother. After the last link that still held her to the world had snapped, she lived on in the hope of life everlasting, where all she held dear awaited her. X ke ke & O mention Elizabeth Barrett Browning in review, brings to us the remembrance of a poet loved and well-known. Elizabeth Barrett Browning (1806-1861) led a life exceptional in various ways. Possessed of a sturdy soul in a frail body— "her mind was disciplined by an un- _ usual education and her character by prolonged illness." Her father built for the family a mansion of oriental splendor, and there he placed every one of his children "in a gilded cell and locked the door." Elizabeth often longed "to slip downstairs through all the sleepy house and escape." There were but two secrets that she kept from her father, forbidden books and_ her dear friendship for Robert Browning. It was on May 20, 1845, that Robert Browning was at last permitted to come to Wimpole Street. When Elizabeth took matters into her own hands and set sail for Italy as Mrs. Robert Browning, her father said, "My daughter is now in her grave. Let us forget the dead." Her poetry increased in depth and beauty from the happiness of her marniage, yet the love sonnets wnitten to Robert Browning during their courtship days are exquisite in thought and structure. When her husband saw these poems, he prevailed upon her to have them pub- WOMEN POETS IN REVIEW lished as "Sonnets from the Portuguese." What favorites these sonnets are! I love thee with the breath, Smiles, tears, of all my life—and, if God choose, I shall but love thee better after death. We OK OK But love me for love's sake, that evermore Thou mayest love on through love's eternity. Just three days after Elizabeth's forty-third birthday, a son was born to them. And from her newborn babe she felt a newborn strength. That was the peak of her happiness! Again, how sad she must have felt when she tremblingly read a letter and found a package from her father, addressed to Robert Browning: In the accompanying package you will find the letters sent to me by your wife. All these letters, you will note, have remained unopened. The seals upon them are still intact. Elizabeth's father died shortly after the return of the letters. The news of his death brought on a collapse from which Elizabeth never fully recovered. She has left us poetry full of living fire. | HEARD A ROBIN SINGING Zara Sabin I heard a robin singing in the rain one day, When things for me had long gone wrong; At first, I would not listen to his song, But clutched close to my heart its poignant pain; For what, I thought, have I to do with cheer Or spring or song or lilting loveliness, What is there now for me but bitterness Since I have lost the one I hold most dear? So gladly rang his gleesome roundelay It seemed I had to hear him, and I turned To where he sang so blithely unconcerned With storm or cloud or wild, wind-driven spray. Then all unbidden, quite to my surprise, A smile quick-twinkled in my brimming eyes. Are We Protecting Our Children? Leone O. Jacobs Member of the Relief Society General Board N a recent article by Angelo Patri, he says, "The latest report on the death of young children is something to make us all quiver. The health of our babies is wonderful and we have a fine crop of them. But the record of fatal accidents to young children is shocking. Why do we allow these needless fatalities to the little ones? The accidents happen at home for the greater part. Imagine that!" It takes a lot of doing on the part of adults, and especially on the part of mothers, to safeguard children against hazards in the home. I am sure none of us realized just how many little things there were to watch and guard against until we had the responsibility of homes of our own. The difference between knowledge and wisdom is an important point in relation to safety. We know that knowledge denotes acquaintance with facts, but wisdom "consists not in knowing many things, nor even in knowing them thoroughly, but in following what contributes most to our lasting happiness." And so we may know what the dangers in the home are, but unless we use wisdom in applying the knowledge we have, unless we do something about those dangers, our knowledge is of no avail. We must be constantly on the alert to: Page 302 1—Keep stairways clear. 2—Avoid carrying hot liquids. Never leave a pan of hot water on the floor. 3—Keep water in automatic water heaters below scalding temperature. 4—Tack stair carpets securely. 5—Secure small rugs at corners. 6—Keep medicines locked up. Medicines should be clearly labeled and never taken in the dark. 7—Turn handles of pots, heating on the stove, away from the reach of children. When taking off lids, raise them in toward the stove instead of out, so the hot steam will not burn anyone. 8—Teach children never to tum switches on the gas stove. If gas has escaped, air the room thoroughly before relighting the burners. G—Disconnect all electrical equipment and cords immediately after using. Small children may be instantly killed or severely shocked by putting an attached cord into — their mouths. 10—Cupboards should not be so high that climbing is necessary, nor so full that bottles or cans may fall out and break, or hit someone. 11—Toys should not be left lying on the floor—even such small items as marbles on the floor can cause serious falls. These are some of the hazards to guard against, ARE WE PROTECTING OUR CHILDREN? AR too many fatalities among children are the result of their being left alone or in the care of an immature person. Children are at the mercy of those who care for them. It is criminal to leave them when they cannot take care of themselves in an emergency. Some parents put the children to bed and go out for the evening. "Oh," they say, "nothing will happen. We've done it many, many times and the house hasn't bumed down, no one has turned on the gas or swallowed a pin." Yes, but it does happen to some children—not yours, of course! It may never happen to your children, 303 but just the same, it might! It takes only one fire or one pin to cause disaster. A mother may be bathing her ten-months-old baby when the telephone rings. She thinks, Oh, I'll just be a minute. She'll be all right. She loves to play in the water. It is a friend on the phone who is planning a party and wishes suggestions for refreshments. The talk goes on and on. Who knows what baby is doing in the meantime? Children, and even small babies, are locked in the car while mother goes shopping. Can anyone be sure of the consequences? A 'mother cannot afford to take Ree HMOGRS } 304 her responsibility to her children lightly. The time she gives to the well-being of her children is the finest contribution she can make to humanity. A small boy runs into the street after his ball, directly in the path of an approaching car. A little girl is playing quietly in the driveway and suddenly a truck backs out and crushes her tiny body. Who is to blame? Much can be accomplished by training children at home. "But," you say, "when a child's ball rolls out into the street, or when he is being chased by a playmate, he never thinks to look, no matter how much he has been taught!" Children differ in this respect, of course, but I have seen children who do stop and look before dashing into the street, even while at play. Then there are those who are careless, and tely only on good fortune to save them. The difference lies mainly in the training of the individual child and the example set by his elders. Very few children receive enough education in safety at home. Yes, they have been warned and threatened, but the training and superRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1946 vision must be consistent over a long period of time to be effective. Example is an important part of teaching. What adults do, children imitate. Any adult who disregards a safety rule, may be contributing to the peril of some child. The schools have done a splendid job of training our children to observe traffic rules, and our observations prove that the children obey traffic regulations far better than adults. Very seldom do we see a child cross on a stop light or jaywalk. There are numerous perils in the life of a child, diseases such as poliomyelitis, rheumatic fever, etc., that, as yet, we are unable to prevent, but surely we should eliminate the perils which come through careless neglect. Motherhood is the most important responsibility in all the world and yields the greatest dividends. Our children are the hope of our nation. They are the promise of tomorrow. Give them the chance they deserve! Let our watchword be: "Eternal vigilance is the price of safety." MOTHER'S DAY GREETING Corporal Robert Layton Here's loving greetings to you, Mom. I'm far away from home, it's true, But don't forget this Mother's Day My thoughts are winging home to you. "Filleth the Hungry Soul" Frances C. Yost OUNG Jonathan Wood finished the last of the sego roots—his morning meal, as his wife, Abigail, looked on. Poor Jonathan, she thought, his cheek bones poke out more every day. He actually looks half-starved. I don't see how he keeps going, just eating sego roots. He works so hard. Is it possible he is beginning to really like them? He certainly cleaned up the dish with relish. Abigail refrained from stating aloud the high contempt in which she held the sego root, practically their only source of food until the garden would come on and the grain be harvested. She was absorbed with her thoughts until Jonathan picked up the straw hat she had woven for him and opened the door. "Jonathan, haven't you forgotten something?" "Oh, yes, our 'goodbye - for-a while' kiss." Abigail hurried to the door with him. "I can see you are worried," she said, as she looked questioningly into his sun-tanned face. "Are the crops a complete failure, and are you trying to keep it from me?" "No, Abbie, I'm not keeping any bad news from you. I guess I was just in a hurry. I'm going to water the grain. It's looked pretty sick the last few days. Brother Brigham said he would come first thing this morning and help me with some ditches." "President Brigham Young helping you irrigate!" exclaimed Abigail in bewilderment. "Then the crops are in great danger! Oh, can irrigation possibly save the grain?" "Bless your heart, Abigail, don't ° worry. Here's another kiss for good measure." With these words, Jonathan took leave of his young wife and went to work in the fields. With a sigh, Abigail surveyed the one oom of her pioneer home. Jonathan had built it. Her eyes tested on the fireplace. She never grew tired of looking at it. It was most decorative, even in hot weather when it was not in use much. They had built the fireplace of red and white granite. The hewn rocks had been placed together in a checkerboard arrangement, and Abigail's fireplace had soon become the envy of every other pioneer homemaker. The shining pots hung in their places. On one side were the table and chairs, in the opposite corner was a cupboard of split pine. How empty it looked! Were it not for the blue willow dishes her grandmother had given them as a wedding present, it would be quite bare. The set was one of the three things Jonathan had consented to bring with them on the long, hard journey, "Because," as she had told Jonathan at the time, "I just can't go without them." The other half of the room was used as the bedroom. There was a big double bed. It boasted polished legs and a beautiful headrest of striped pine and was covered with a log cabin patchwork quilt which hung to the floor. Cuddled close to Page 305 306 the bed was a cradle made of quaking aspen, wherin Baby Annie was sitting, fascinated by her pink toes. In the other corner was the little green metal trunk, another reminder of the home in Connecticut they had left. Above the trunk hung a mirror, the third article from her dear old home. The well-packed dirt floor boasted two nice rag rugs. Both were Abigail's contribution to their new home. One was by the door, and the other was placed in front of the bed, where they knelt together fer morning and evening prayers. Our own home and how I love it, but I'd trade it all for a real good meal for us all, Abigail decided solemnly. She was brought from her wishful dreaming by the sound of a kettle of water boiling merrily. The kettle hung on a rod over a campfire just outside the door. She took the kettle from its hook with a pair of long tongs and carried it into the house for baby Annie's bath. She poured the hot water into a quaint bathtub, which was another piece of Jonathan's woodcraft. He had hollowed out a log and smoothed and polished it for a bathtub for the baby. Abigail enjoyed the tub so much because she never had to worry about its tipping over, nor of baby Annie slipping in it. She cooled the water until it tested just right on her elbow. "Baff," cooed Annie. "Yes, dear, you can have a nice long bath while Mother tidies up the house." The baby played to her heart's content. Thank goodness, Abigail thought, there is plenty of water, if one doesn't mind carrying it. Taking the baby from the tub, she put RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1946 clean clothes on her and, while the water was still warm, Abigail washed out the clothes Annie had been wearing. It doesn't pay to let things get too soiled, she thought. Oh, fora bar of fresh-smelling soap. But I'd really rather have a loaf of freshsmelling bread at that. HEN, going to the cupboard for a cup of milk, she looked at the contents longingly but did not take so much as a sip. Baby Annie needed every drop. If the vegetables would only come on, she thought, Annie needs some fresh vegetables as well as milk. Back home we would have all kinds of vegetables by this time of year! Then, aloud, she exclaimed: "Why, its my birthday, today! Jonathan has forgotten, too, but I shan't mention it for he'll feel badly that he hasn't a present for me." Thoughts of her past birthdays and the very special dinners each had brought made her wonder just what she could fix for this one. "T know, we'll celebrate my birthday by not having sego roots for one meal," she announced to the baby as she looked through her scanty supplies. "Let's see, there's vinegar and enough staples for a small mixing. I could make some meal cakes. Perhaps I shouldn't use the very last meal we have, but after all, it is my birthday, and they'll taste so good after what we've had!" With happy thoughts of a change of diet, though meager, Abigail hummed a part of a song she loved: "Why should we mourn, or think our lot is hard, 'tis not so, all is well." Mixing the dough, she divided it" into three small cakes, as baby Annie sat on the big bed playing pattycake. "FILLETH THE HUNGRY SOUL" watched the f aking progressed. At last, it was finished. With the use of the tongs, she carried the Dutch oven into the kes were set to "Um-mmm, I could eat them all] Myself right now," sniffed Abjgail, as she looked at the steaming cakes, Just then a gentle tap was heard on her door. She quickly covered the meal cakes with 4 clean cloth and hurried to see who her visitor might be. It was Lucy Hanson, her nearest neighbor, "Hello, Lucy come in?" "Just for a few minutes, Abbie, I now you're busy and | don't want to detain you," 'You look bred, Lucy. | hope you're not feeling il]," dear, won't you Lucy sat on the offered chair, her bony form revealing its heavy burden. "Tm not ill, Abigail, not really. Just a little tired, I... I just don't seem to have any strength!" Lucy made an attempt at a laugh. "I just came from the garden, Oh, Abbie, had so hoped there would be some €nough to thin out. But they're hardly more 307 than through the ground! There wasn't even enough for a tiny flat. Abigail, not to be outdone, replied optimistically, "Lucy, it won't this morning that Brother Brigham Amos with his ittigating. So now you see, your grain Will surely make!" "Abigail, the harvest may as well "Always before my the loaves and Placing them in the Oven. Sometimes I can almost smell a delicious oven fragrance, and | just want to shut my eyes and stop fighting..." Lucy need not know I have the cakes, thought Abigail. Lucy and Amos Hanson Were given as much meal allotment as we. If I have been more frugal, well, that's just Lucy anson's hard luck! When Abigail looked again at Lucy, she was drying a tear with er apron. Stealing a have given away every dish of my blue willow set for 4 crust of bread before Annie was born. | could.... 308 I could give her my cake. She needs it more than I. I will give her my own meal cake! WALKING over to the split-pine cupboard, she took from the top shelf a plate which belonged to the blue willow set. Placing a doily lovingly on the plate, she went quickly, lest she change her mind, to the table where the three precious meal cakes were covered. Choosing the nicest looking one, she went back to the chair where Lucy sat still dabbing her eyes in an effort to hide her tears. "Here, Lucy, eat this. It isn't much, but you'll feel better, I'm sure.' Lucy looked up and her hand automatically reached for the food. Then, with restraint, she drew her hand back. "Abigail, darling, you're so thoughtful and generous, but I couldn't take it, really. I wasn't begging. I came for sympathy only. I'll. Pll just have a drink. I wouldn't think of tobbing you, and begid@s...." "Lucy, T want you to have it. I have mote.' "Ate you sure you're not giving me your last morsel of food?" "Quite sure, Lucy dear, and you' Te welcome to it even if it were.' "Well, if you're sure you want me to have it.... It looks so very tempting." Lucy took the plate offered her and ate slowly, enjoying every morsel to the fullest. Abigail watched her hands as they went from plate to mouth. The very food she had planned for her own_ birthday dinner! RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1946 Dinner, there was that word again. Jonathan would be coming in soon and a good wife couldn't set a hungry husband down to a table with one meal cake. "Lucy, I haven't prepared Jonathan's dinner. I must gather my roots. I think I'll try cooking them and serving them with a little vinegar, just for a change." "Oh, Abigail, you're so clever, you make them sound almost good! I won't keep you. I should go myself. I can't tell you what this food means to me. You have saved my life, as well as my baby's. Now I know I shall be able to carry on. God bless you, Abigail!" "Come over again, Lucy." Lucy was gone. Turning slowly, Abigail went back into her house. She glanced at baby Annie in the cradle. She would sleep for a while yet, and it wasn't far to a large patch of sego lilies. If she hurried she could make it! Snatching her sunbonnet, she slipped quietly out, and ran to the open prairie. The tears, so long held back, burst forth. Alone, she did not have to put on a brave front. On she ran, letting the tears come. Blindly she came upon the sego lily patch, and fell to the ground and wept as if her heart would break. There she lay until her well of 'tears was completely dry. I'm not the only person in the world who has divided food with a friend or neighbor, she thought reprehensively. Then, raising herself to her knees, and bowing her head, she prayed, "Dear God, in heaven above, I promise thee, this day, that as long as I live I will not complain nor apologize to others for the little food we have in our home, if thou wilt "FILLETH THE HUNGRY SOUL" 309 only provide us with bread. Just 0 your prayer. Abbie, something pread! Dear God Amen." tells me yout hungry days ate almost ust then Abigail felt strong famil over." jar arms 4 out her waist, helping Abigail wiped the tears from her her to her feet. Face with het apron "Abbie, darling, the wheat fields "T say Abbie, wh don't we Uy gre nodding as if the vety hand of vinegar on the sego roots for yout God were Tus {ing them! You should pirthday dinnet " Jonathan aske have been with me when [ imngated. 4 if he had 4 scovered the solution Why, the water really Jaughed as to all worldy problem it rippled through the grain. Suddenly, the were laughing 4% every speat of wheat nodded its they clung to each other — good, thanks. L ok at it now, bbie. You deep laughter that rewarded th can almost see it growing befo heart, and together they dug roots your very eyes There is the answet enough to sustain them CAREER said I, "to sing Look what happiness 4 song can pring!" the girl from France Now, thought Before an audience and watch them smile; Y'll dance as fairies i The singet cam sing his I only have 1™ The Gift of the Genie LaRene King Bleecker UPPOSE that a genie came S to you as you sat alone in your living room, bearing a gift. "Here, on this silver tray, is an education for you," he might say. "You have only to pay one dollar and, presto! Great knowledge shall be yours." How you would thrill as you reached forth eager hands to grasp this wonderful gift. "Why, that is almost like finding it," you would exclaim. But a genie is not likely to do that, for he exists only in fairy tales; and such a thing as an education handed to one on a silver tray could never happen. Literally, perhaps, it could not, but we have its equivalent within our own homes, ready for us to reach out and take, any time we care to do so. And such a complete education as we should receive: Complete courses in_ theology, literature, social science, and visiting teachers' messages; excellent articles on sociology, biography and pioneer history; latest achievements of noted women, stories, articles, poems, all these, together with splendid instructions from our spiritual leaders. From experience, I know this education can be obtained, for I have the gift of the genie here on the table within my reach, the source material out of which I shall absorb my knowledge. When I have finished, I shall have mastered the rudiments of knowledge and selfPage 310 culture that lead to a more abundant life. How I came to realize the value of this gift as a source book began one busy day quite a few years ago when there were a thousand and one things to be done. I had dropped into a chair with a gasp of dismay, having just remembered that I was to give a talk on sociology at a study club that very afternoon. Where could I find material at this late hour? There wasn't time to go to the public library and the textbooks on that subject were tucked in the lockers of my two sons at college. Then I recalled that in a bound volume of The Relief Society Magazine I had read a very fine article on "Why Study Sociology," by Dr. Harold T. Christensen, author of the lessons in social science then appearing in the Magazine. It contained all the source material I would need for my-notes and information. While browsing through that same number, later, I found a short article that suggested a plot for a story which was finally accepted in a prize-winning contest. On another day, I wanted a gift for a friend who was in need of a cheering philosophy to help her regain mental poise after having gone through the tragic loss of a loved one. Again I went to my source supply—the Magazine. In searching through back numbers, the thought came—why not make for this friend a little booklet made up of poems and household hints, THE GIFT OF THE GENIE I used first, the Eliza R. Snow memoria] Prize-winning Poems published in the January Magazine for "945, then the three interdening and home were shorter tO a Charted Course?" Marler Hoggan, as Printed in the January number for 1946. In Making this booklet, I had to » articles, h to Preserve, I Jist side cover, thus one would through them. Talso have Magazines listed which Contain articles to which | can resaving the time In thumbing adequately solved. To order for the very purpose. There t on the mother-in-law versus daughter-in-law Problem by Lovell in the February num- €T, 1945, page 92; also, a beaut. Fully constructed Story in the Janu- 32 ary issue of this year "Spring Festival" by Mary Ek Knowles, the prize-winning story, which carries out the theme of idealism versus realism. In like manner, I have found source material for essays, articles, lectures, and story plots. But, best of all, there is a way to banish that inevitable blue day that comes to even the best of us. Call it mental fatigue, spiritual laxness, nervous let-down — anything you like, but whatever it is, there is one unfailing cure—read your Magazine. Or, if you have read the current number, get out your old Relief Society Magazines and browse through them. Soon your morale will return and you will experience a renewal of mental and spiritual strength and courage. Besides inspired lessons and editorials, you will get a digest and review of world happenings; you will read articles on travel, biography, and religion, combined with poetry, literature, and art. Then there are bits of humor and reminiscences of special interest because they are similar to the things we have had happen in our own lives. One such special feature entitled "I Remember" by Elder Rodney B. Taylor, rich in restrained humor and atmosphere, gives an account of how a little Mormon community in Canada entertained an English lord and his aristocratic daughters (April 1945, page 208). Special significance, too, are the poems inspired by the Eliza R. Snow Memorial Contest announced in June of each year and which ends in September, the winners being announced and the poems published in the January issues. The RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1946 Magazine also conducts a short story contest, the rules and results of which are also published in June and January. No greater asset to culture can be found anywhere than in this splendid method of encouraging our poets and authors, to whom we owe the tribute of reading and rereading their inspiring poems and stories. If one kept only the Magazines containing these stories and poems, think what an asset they would be to any home library. The rapid tempo of modem life, together with its growing complexities, contributes to the increase of fear and anxiety in the homes of today. How shall we meet such fear? What shall we do to obtain serenity of mind and heart? Now, more than ever before, mothers are required to be stalwarts, to remain calm in the face of confusion and bewilderment. The Relief Society Magazine is a supplement to our faith. It is the source book by which we obtain a more abundant life, by which we become better, wiser mothers; it educates us, helps us to be sure of ourselves, to be reliant and happy, to gain knowledge with which to enrich the lives that God has entrusted into our care. May I make a plea to each of you—if you haven't been in the habit of keeping back numbers, start the filing habit now. If you haven't a closet shelf or an attic, a trunk will serve, or even the cupboard shelves. As we store away food for our physical needs, so also, we may store sustenance for our mental and physical hunger. Associate intimately with the THE GIFT OF THE GENIE hurch leaders, Our authors, and Teady done 80, subscribe now for those Inspired Specialists who oy. The current year. Then, believe it ablest Contributions from Our bestwil] be bowing before you, and the informed instructors in this or any abundant life will be yours. A SUNSET DIVINE Pauline Kirkwood And gazed enthralled at the Picture I saw As the sun slowly sank in the west. The sky above was all aglow With color beyond compare, For God had made a canvas of the sky And painted a Picture there; And the Stay clouds floated their tarlaton Veils Splashed with Carmine and gold. Done for you by the great Master's hand— So cherish it tenderly, ine the Magazine lessons. Here then, is your education, the Or not, you will have your Silver tray of knowledge at hand. The genie Sixty Years Ago Excerpts from the Woman's Exponent May 1 and May 15, 1886 "For tHr Ricnts OF THE WOMEN OF ZION AND THE RIGHTS OF THE Women oF ALL Nations" SPRING How shall I woo thee, beautiful spring, What shall my offering be? X e& *& € Once more we are permitted to behold the most beautiful quarter of the year— young, vernal, glorious spring! The season when all nature arises from her long, cold, deathly sleep, throws off her alabaster shroud of snow, enters her dressing room and robes herself in glorious apparel of every hue and texture and comes forth as a bride. —Editorial * ee & FROM TUBA CITY, (Arizona): We are almost out of the world here, and do not receive the news very readily.... Our general health is good as it always is; death, excepting for accident and old age, has never visited us during the seven years of our settlement here. Our postoffice address is Tuba City, though the place is better known by the name Moan Coppy. We have a weekly mail now, still there seem to be some irregularities, which we hope will be overcome in time. —Mary A. Farnsworth, President of the Relief Society. Ee e HOUSEHOLD HINTS: A little borax put into the water in which scarlet napkins and red-bordered towels are to be washed will prevent them from fading. When making a new carpet, always save the ravelings for use in darning the carpet on some future day, as the colors will match better than any yarn you are likely to find. A bill-of-fare book is a good thing. A plain, strong, blank book is what is needed. Every day when the morning's work is done, sit down and write therein what you will have for the next dinner, supper, and breakfast. In this way a pleasant variety and a better class of cooking will be secured and all needed preparations can be made methodically, instead of a harum-scarum, hurried manner at the last moment. X xe * & OUR LITTLE PAPER: One can realize most fully when absent from Zion or the valleys of the mountains what a power in the hands of the women of this Church a newspaper is. We are all well aware that many of our sisters think very little of the Woman's Exponent, and look upon it as too insignificant for them to patronize, or even to read, but they do not comprehend its importance. If they did, they would open their eyes in wonder when one tells them the Mormon women publish a paper.... We would entreat our sisters to give this silent messenger of their views and expressions more liberal patronage and careful attention in the near future. —Editorial Page 314 Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon PRESIDENT TTRUMAN invited twelve outstanding American citizens to meet with Ex-President Herbert Hoover in the White House in March. They planned means of decreasing American consumption of food in order to send more to famine-stricken peoples. Among the twelve were Mrs. Anna Lord Strauss, President of the League of Women Voters, and Mrs. Emily G. Dickinson, President of the National Federation of Women's Clubs. Al eighty years of age, Sister Mary E. Abel is a visiting teacher's message leader in Relief Society and also a teacher in Sunday School in the Third Ward of American Fork, Utah. As first Relief Society president of that ward, she served for nineteen years. Since the age of thirteen she has continuously filled one or more positions in the Church. MB:. BELLE J. BENCHLEY has an unusual profession for a woman. For twenty years she has been curator of the San Diego Zoological Garden, California, which she has made into one of the greatest zoos in the world. She has originated and pioneered excellent features, many of which have been adopted by similiar institutions throughout America. MARCH 12, 1946, Mrs. Celestia Snow Gardner of Salt Lake City, Utah, was ninety-seven years old. She is the daughter of William Snow, brother of Erastus Snow. She has known all of the presidents of the Church except the Prophet Joseph Smith and has listened to their inspiring gospel messages. HREE Utah women have been appointed to national positions in the Parent-Teachers Association of the United States. Mrs. Arch J. West is president of the juvenile protection committee; Mrs. L. K. Nicholsen is chairman of the safety committee; Mrs. Eric A. Johnson, President of the Utah P. T. A., is a board member. [XN the American Legion Auxiliary, two Salt Lake women have been honored with national appointments. Mrs. Rae Ashton is vicechairman of child welfare; Mrs. H. C. McShane, community service chairman. RS. GEORGE P. PARKER, formerly a member of the Relief Society General Board, is chairman of the home division of the Utah Safety Council. The excellent work of her division brought Utah the January national award for home safety. Page 315 C@—D EDITORIAL c~ © VOL. 33 MAY 1946 Return of Spring While the earth remaineth, seedtime and harvest, and cold and heat, and summer and winter, and day and night shall not cease (Genesis 8:22). HE return of spring is at once a promise and the fulfillment of a promise. After the dark night of winter, after the time of waiting, the earth turns again to sunshine and song and the splendor of leaves and blossoms. There is solace and great joy in this orderly return of the season of brightness and beauty. There comes a resurgence of hope and the deep satisfaction of feeling once more that all is right in the world—in God's world. There can be no denying the infinite possibilities of the earth, the unbounded potentialities of man who has been given dominion over it. Faith seems to assume greater strength in spring, and all that is done seems to be measured with the spirit of promise. Now in the wide fields, the white gulls follow the plow as they have followed it every spring in these valleys for nearly a hundred years. Still the storage of snow has been made in the mountains and the streams bring again their living water. It is the feeling of sameness, of order, of the working of eternal law, that gives a sense of security. Here is the earth with its ancient promise of spring fulfilled. Here are the furrows ready to receive the seed. Here are the orchard trees with Page 316 their blossoms falling and the green fruit taking form on the boughs. The pasture grass grows tall and bends to the wind. Young lambs, white against the brush, trail to the sunlit hillside. All is well with the world. Only the dominion of man is weak and confused — weak and confused because his aims are not high enough, because his field of service is not wide enough, because his heart is not kind enough, and his courage too often a latent thing. Confusion and despair have not come because the earth is inadequate, nor because we have not been given the tools for turning all its infinite possibilities to our good. Our Father has fulfilled his promise. Seed time has returned, and with it the opportunity for a new planting and the reaping of a better harvest. To the Latter-day Saints, always aware of both their heritage and their destiny, the return of spring has a special meaning. Our pioneer ancestors, living close to the earth, learned patience, industry, and thrift. Living close to the Heavenly Father, they learned responsibility and brotherhood. They displayed through their living of the gospel the union of many tongues and many people achieving their ideals by devotion to a common cause — 317 of the People. IS Passed The flowers appear The 1, um o SPung in th on the; the time of the sing. Troubled World comes aS a new OPing of birds is come" (Song of Sol Portunity another Chance £5 Mon, 2:77 12) V. P. C ee Dn Memoriam Pauline Taggart Pingree Member Relief Society Genera] Board, 1940-1946 'THE Genera] Board of Stakes Ormer member of h ety. Sister Pingre in the Socie the Genera] Board of Steatly loved by al In January 1946, € and great blessings, ity Ward, Salt Lake City, Sister Pi the ward." Her devoted S€Ivice in er "sponsibility which Position she Was called in April 1940. She se years and was Teleaseq With Sister L long be Temem ber ed as q €ader, and as q tru THE TEACHER Each i ttle Each I bring the giver néar'to Heaven And hea] the heart that's broken, act OF service given, the, temporal and Pititua] Salvation achieveme MANY Positions;: "For lo, the Winter h auxiliary Organ her husband, Frank Pingtee, was bisho Faith Is a Heritage Christie Lund Coles CHAPTER 2 SYNOPSIS Enid Drage, mother of a small girl, is very happy in her household tasks and in the love of her husband, Tom, who has been promised the position of foreman at the factory where he works. Enid believes that the future holds great treasures for her and her family, but suddenly her world is darkened by the news that Tom has suffered a fatal accident. HE funeral was something Enid was to remember as one remembers a dream, hazy and unreal, yet paralyzing in its impact. And borne, somehow, though one knows not how. A strength beyond physical strength, a peace beyond any peace she had ever known had sustained her through the songs, through the kind, hopeful words of those who spoke, even through that last, horrible moment when she saw him for the last time. Then she wanted to cry out, to seize him bodily in her slim, young arms, to run with him so that no one might ever take him from her again. But the power that had seen cher through the rest held her through this. The agonizing moment passed and she moved like one anesthetized. She found herself, together with the few relatives of Tom's who had come from out of town, back at the house. The neighbors had cleaned it, put flowers about, and prepared an appetizing meal. Enid shuddered as she looked at the steaming food." She could not possibly have eaten Page 318 though the others did, assuring her she needed strength. And when they had finished, they left, beseeching her to let them know if she needed help of any kind. The door closed on the last of them and she stood, her back against it, staring at the two-room flat. It looked shabby and poor now.... As it really was. The magic that had made it bright and beautiful was gone. Sharon was with one of the neighbors who had offered to keep her that day. For the first time, she was alone with her grief. And for the first time, looking at the small crib, the dresser where Tom's ties hung in one corer, seeing his shoes in the closet, she threw herself across the bed, buried her face in her hands and wept.... Copious, shaking tears that seemed to come from the very roots of her being. After a long time she ceased her weeping. She lay still, staring into space. The twilight shadows were growing long in the room. She knew she should go and get the child, but she couldn't bring herself to do it. Somehow, she dreaded seeing that face which was so much like another face. She resented it a little, too, found it almost unbearable that his looks, his eyes, the very cowlick in the child's hair, which was like his, would go on while he would not be here. FAITH IS A HERITAGE She closed her eyes wearily while her thoughts, unbidden, turned back over the past years. She had been nineteen when she met Tom. Both of them had been at the university. One day in English Two she really noticed him for the first time, noticed his wide shoulders and his dark, slightly curly hair. As she was looking at him, he turned and their eyes had met. She liked the rather shy, quizzical way he smiled at her, and, flushing a little, she returned the smile. Somehow, it didn't seem strange for him to be waiting for her at the door as she came out of class. "You're Enid Burton, aren't you?" he asked with friendliness. "Yes," she admitted, "and you?" "T'm Tom Drage. Mind if I walk down with you?" She said, "No. I suppose not," and they found themselves going down the corridor together. As it happened, neither of them had a class the next period so they walked out on the campus and sat under the beginning-to-be-green trees. It was spring then, too. Later than now and warmer, but there was the same scent of newness, of growth, in the air. She could almost repeat every word they said, could hear him now saying the words. What a strange thing, memory! Like a moving picture of someone who has gone. She had known in a peculiar instinctive way that someday she would marry him, that if he asked she would go to the ends of the earth to be near him. She had told him she was going to teach and he had grinned, murmuring, "Not you. You're too pretty to be a school teacher. You'll get married to some 319 lucky fellow. It might even be me you'll marry." They laughed as if it were a good joke. Yet, it was only a week or so later that he said, as they sat in practically the same place, "School will be over soon. I don't believe I'll come back next year...." She looked at him in shocked surprise, her heart sinking. She asked, "Why not?" He bit on a blade of grass before he told her, "Well, there's something mighty wrong with me. I can't eat. I talk in my sleep. I can't seem to concentrate.... Except on one thing." Her breath came quicker but she plucked at the grass, not looking at at him. "It sounds bad," she agreed. "It is bad," he assured her seriously, reaching over to take her hand, "Gee, Enid, I'm head-overheels in love with you. Marry me, will you?" "Oh, Tom," she cried, "what about our plans for the future, your engineering and my teaching? I've got to pay Aunt Esther back for being so good to me. We're so young." "I know all those things, but somehow they don't matter. I've got enough engineering that I can make a living until I can save enough to go back to school. Someday, we'll both go back. But now...." He drew nearer to her, his eyes searching her face, "Look at me," he commanded, "try to deny that you love me." Her eyes were soft and shy as she looked at him, as she whispered: "T can't say I don't love you. I guess I knew it that first day I really noticed you." He laughed, indulgently. "I'd noticed you for a long time before 320 that. I was using mental suggestion on you. Finally, one day, you noticed me. Oh, happy day!" She felt the touch of his hand on hers and it was like a sudden charge of electricity. He leaned forward, whispering, "Say yes, my dear." "Tom.... Darling," She cried, in spite of herself, in spite of her reason, and she felt his lips upon hers, briefly, gently, wonderfully. When Aunt Esther gave her consent and full approval they went ahead with their plans. They were married simply, but rightly, in July, and since he had a promise of a job in his home town, they had come here to live. She didn't need to go over their days here, she couldn't. They were too close, too achingly close.. * eK & ig WAS darker now and she could hear the birds chirping in preparation for the coming night. She arose slowly, laboriously, and looked about the room. A great hunger for her child came over her. She took her wrap from the closet and started out to get her. The woman had said that she need only phone and she would bring her over, but Enid felt she would rather go out, walking, moving. The woman lived in the west part of town and not many would see her. Most people would be eating dinner, sitting around talking with one another, oblivious to the rest of the world.... As, oh, so recently, she had been oblivious to all else save her own little world. The wind whipped about her, stung her with a few drops of rain splashing against her face. But she hardly noticed, she walked with a Cd RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1946 steady rhythm against the wind, against the oncoming darkness, a gainst the hard, steady pain that was gnawing in her being. Mrs. Ranch, of the Relief Society, was very kind. She drew her into the warmth of her large, nicely furnished living room where Sharon was lying on the couch asleep, an expensive plaything still grasped in her little hand. Enid went over to her, stood looking down at her a moment before she sank on the couch beside her. Mrs. Ranch watched her, compassion and kindness in her face, which, though not very old, was framed by completely white hair. "My dear," she said, coming over to her, "I am so sorry for you, but I know you have the courage and the faith to go forward, to make a good life for your precious daughter. You must force yourself to be brave..." She said other things, but Enid hardly heard them. Somehow, she managed to smile, to say, "Yes. I know," politely. And, after what seemed an interminable time, with her child in her arms, she whispered, "Thank you so much," and left, started toward home. She walked slowly now, deep in thought, deep in sudden, overwhelming bitterness. "Make a good life'"—that was easy to say, easy to do, when one had a beautiful home like this woman's, when one had a prosperous and good husband. It was not so easy when one was suddenly left alone.... With nothing. Tom hadn't even carried insurance. Each week they had thought of taking out insurance but he would laugh and say, "I guess there's plenty of time for that." No, it wasn't easy, at twenty-three, FAITH IS A HERITAGE to have the entire world dissolve under one's feet, its music stilled, its hope ended, its beauty suddenly turned to ashes. She stopped a moment to catch her breath, to put Sharon down so that she might rest before starting up the street. Then she noticed that she was beside the river which ran through the town. She stood looking at it as one mesmerized, staring at the heavy, black, churning water. Usually there was not much water in the river bed, but today the storms in the mountains and the melting of the snows had brought the water to almost flood proportions. Debris and rocks were being carried rapidly along, being tossed about as if they were nothing at all. The turmoil, the angry grumbling of the water, matched the bitterness and tumult in her own heart. And she was glad for it. She wouldn't ever be hurt again. She moved a step forward toward the water as one who is attracted 321 by an evil power. She felt the darkness about her, clammy and thick and ominous. As one is awakened from sound sleeping, she heard the voice of her daughter calling, "Mommie, Mommie," felt the tug at her coat. The child looked up at her in need, in want of love and assurance. She looked down into the lifted, trusting, beautiful face. In that moment all the dark bitterness within her became as mist before the moring sun. She dropped to her knees, gathered the child against her, whispered, "Oh, my darling, my darling, I still have you. I will make a good life for you. Daddy would want me to do that." The child repeated the word, "Daddy..." and pointed up the street. But Enid only kissed her, assuring her still, "Daddy isn't there. But his spirit is, his faith and his courage. He left us those. Yes, we will go home now." (To be continued) MOTHER OF MINE Vernessa M. Nagle Mother of mine, I never knew The price for a life one must pay; I never knew that loving one's own Meant toiling and striving each day. Mother of mine, through all of these years You've prayed for me—how do I know? Mother of mine, these lips, too, have prayed For four little heads in a row! The Magazine Honor Roll for 1945 Margaret C. Pickering, General Secretary-Treasurer UBSCRIPTIONS to the Magazine continue to show steady increase, based upon comparative total figures for December 1944 and 1945. In December 1945, a total of 74,- 032 copies of the Magazine were mailed as compared to 71,281 in December 1944, an increase of 2,- 751, or 3.86 per cent. Following the usual course, the honor roll, printed in this issue, recognizes all stakes, wards, missions and branches whose subscription rates equal or exceed 75 per cent. The 1945 honor roll contains more names than ever before—1102, an increase of 82, or 8.04 per cent over the preceding year. Following are the comparable figures for 1944 and 1945: appointed as Magazine tepresentative, the name of the president appears. Great credit is due the supervisory stake, mission district, and mission Magazine representatives, and all of the ward and branch Magazine representatives who have done the arduous work of procuring subscriptions, with the assistance and support of Relief Society officers and members. To the Magazine representatives who have the responsibility of obtaining the subscriptions, and to all who assisted them, the General Board is very grateful. As an expression of its appreciation, the General Board is again awarding a free, oneyear Magazine subscription to all local representatives who procured subscriptions equal to 75 per cent of 1944 1945 Increase & Decrease No. Per cent Local Relief Societies 919 992 "ine + ie In Stakes 674 763 + 89 +19 In Missions 245 229 —16 — 6.53 Supervisory Organizations 101 110 + + 8.91 Stakes a 81 +10 + 14.08 Missions 6 7 7 2 + 16.66 Mission Districts 3 2 — 2 — 8.33 Total on Honor Roll 1020 1102 + 82 + 8.04 The honor roll is arranged in alphabetical order and the name of the Magazine representative appears opposite the namevand record of each Relief Society listed. In those instances where no one is Page 322 the ward or branch Relief Society enrollment as of the end of 1945, and to all stake, mission district, and mission Magazine representatives appearing on the honor roll. The Magazine honor roll is based THE MAGAZINE HONOR ROLL FOR 1945 on subscription reports submitted to the General Board. However, the British, Hawaiian, Northern California, and South African Missions (of the English-speaking missions ) failed to submit subscription _reports for 1945. Also, a few districts of some of the reporting missions failed to respond—1 in the California Mission, and 5 in the Northern States. Reference to the annual Relief Society reports compiled by the secretaries indicated that the unreported missions had local Relief Societies with rates entitling them to a position on the honor roll and they were, therefore, included. However, none is included from the British, Hawaiian, New Zealand, or South African Missions from which no report had been received by press time. We take special pleasure in congratulating the 18 stakes, 1 mis- 323 sion, and 7 mission districts with Magazine subscription rates of 100 per cent or more. Of this number 8 stakes and 5 mission districts are making their first appearance in the highest ranking group. In the local Relief Societies, 511 of the 992 on the honor roll achieved rates of 100 per cent or more. These hundred _percenters constituted 50.46 per cent or 385 of the 763 award-winning wards in stakes and 55.02 per cent or 126 of 229 awardwinning mission branches. The excellent records are due in many instances to the fact that some mission and stake Relief Societies have had unusual opportunities to place the Magazine in the hands of investigators and non-members. The local societies with exceptionally high rates appear on the following page. Relief Societies Achieving Highest Honors Name Per Cent South Alabama District 153 Australian Mission 140 South Los Angeles Stake 126 Cassia Stake rns Emigration Stake 113 East Jordan Stake ls Phoenix Stake 112 South Georgia District 112 Great Falls District 111 Boise Stake 110 North Idaho Falls Stake Name Per Cent North Box Elder Stake 108 Idaho Falls Stake 105 Burley Stake 104 Taylor Stake 104 South Salt Lake Stake 103 Bannock Stake 102 Granite Stake 102 West South Carolina District 102 Central Oregon District 101 Park Stake 101 San Bernardino Stake 101 Central Ohio District 100 Ogden Stake 100 Florida District Wasatch Stake 112 112 324 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY. 1946 Local Relief Societies With High Ratings Local Society Azalia Branch Hurstville Branch Woollahra Branch Glen Huon Branch Lannison Branch Ballard Ward Tvrells Lake Ward Rock Springs Ward Scofield Ward Firestone Park Ward Kimball Ward Boise First Ward Manavu Ward Sheridan Branch Idaho Falls Seventh Ward Glasgow Branch San Bernardino Second Ward Manchester Ward ~ Basin Ward Oklahoma City Branch South Alabama District. Elizabeth City Branch Fall River Branch Klickitat Branch St. Anthony First Ward Twin Groves Ward Stake or Mission Southern States Australia Australia Australia Southern States Roosevelt Taylor Lyman North Carbon South Los Angeles Shelley Boise Provo Western States Idaho Falls North Central States San Bernardino South Los Angeles Big Horn Central States Southern States East Central States New England Northwestern States Yellowstone Yellowstone Per cent 313 300 289 260 190 189 182 169 169 168 167 165 162 162 156 155 a5 154 153 153 153 150 150 150 150 150 Achievements of Stakes Of seventy-one of the stakes on 1944 status and to the following 22 the honor roll last year, all but the following twelve maintained their We extend congratulations to the 59 stakes which maintained the position: Davis (new stake) East Jordan East Mill Creek (new stake) Grant Lakeview Millard New York North Box Elder Oquitth Pasadena Sacramento newly added stakes: St. George Sevier South Box Elder (new stake) South Summit Southern Arizona Star Valley Weiser Wells West Jordan West Pocatello (new stake) Yellowstone Bear River Bonneville Cache Ensign Los Angeles Maricopa Mt. Jordan Nampa Nevada San Fernando Sugarhouse Uvada THE MAGAZINE HONOR ROLL FOR 1945 Achievements of Missions In the missions, four of the six which appeared on the 1944 honor roll maintained their positions in 1945, namely, Australian, Southern States, Western Canadian, and Western States. The Northern States Mission did not reach the quota this year. The report from the South African Mission did not reach the office in time to be included in this report. Three new missions made the honor roll this year—Canadian, North Central and Northwestern. The Australian Mission still leads the stakes and missions of the Church with 140 per cent. The 1944 honor roll showed 24 mission districts. The 1945 honor roll shows 22 mission districts of which the following maintained their 1944 rating: South Coast and Mojave Desert of Califormia Mission; Central Indiana, Central Ohio, and Wisconsin of Northern States Mission; -Northern Montana of Northwestern States Mission; Central Florida, Florida, Georgia, Mississippi, South Alabama, South Carolina, South Florida, South Georgia, West Florida, and West South Carolina of the Southern States. Six new mission districts were added this year: Las Flores of the California mission, North and South Illinois of Northern States Mission; Central Oregon, Great Falls, and Yakima of Northwestern States Mission; and North Texas 325 of the Texas-Lousiana Mission. Six of the districts on the honor roll in 1944 failed to qualify for this year— San Gorganio and Santa Barbara of the California Mission; East Michigan, South Ohio, and West Michigan of the Northern States Mission; and South Louisiana of the Texas- - Louisiana Mission. In addition to the stakes, missions, and mission districts in which local Relief Societies attained rates sufficient to place the entire area on the honor roll, 64 stakes and 8 missions are represented not by a rating for the stake or mission as a whole, but by one or more of their local Relief Societies which attained honor-roll status. Accordingly, a total of 145 stakes (all but 7) or 95.39 per cent and of 19 Englishspeaking missions, 15 (all but 4) or 78.95 per cent are represented on the 1945 honor roll by one or more local Societies. Reports from the British, Hawaiian, New Zealand, and South African Missions had not reached the office at the time of this report. We tegret that the Carbon and Portland Stakes, which were on the honor roll in 1944, are not represented this year by even one ward. The General Board expresses its deep appreciation of the splendid results attained during one of the most stressful periods of history— the climax of the war and its aftermath. Be Relief Saciety Alberta Stake Ilartley Pershing Alpine Stake Alpine American Fork 2nd American Fork 3rd American Fork 4th Highland Bannock Stake Bench Central Cleveland Grace Grace Second Lago Mound Valley Thatcher Williams Bear Lake Stake Bloomington Fish Haven Garden City Laketown Lanark Liberty Ovid Paris First Paris Second St. Charles Sharon Ienroll- 483 44 3 32 39 26 31 39 60 85 78 15 No. Subseriptions Pet. HONOR ROLL Magazine Representative Annie B. Orr Reatha Stoddard Edna L. Meredith Catherine Smith Marie Reimschussel Hannah S. Goodall Ann C, Hansen Louella M. Binns Ida Sorenson Rose Hanson Ila Holsten Mary B. Andersen Hattie Hogan Afton Robinson Dorthy Steele Blanche Wright Alice L. Smith Merl Kingsford Nina Michaelson Bertha Thornock Alice Loveland Celia Langford Bernetta Price Fontella Parker Laura Poulsen Jessie Jensen Rosa Grandy Veda Shepherd Carrie Pugmire Hazel Long Relief Soviety Lovell Lovell West Otto Penrose Powell Worland Blackfoot Stake Blackfoot First Blackfoot Third Blackfoot Fourth Moreland Pingree Riverside Riverton Rose Wapello Blaine Stake Carey Gooding Lone Star Richfield Shoshone Boise Stake Boise First Boise Second Boise Third Boise Fourth Meridian Mountain Home Bonnevelle Stake Douglas Innrollment 158 124 28 11 31 25 941 77 71 83 74 30 54 29 37 48 53 49 14 31 14 429 78 67 115 67 49 13 117 SS) No. 129 104 27 14 31 31 710 69 67 75 69 32 64 30 28 38 51 41 hscriptions Pet. 82 84 96 127 100 124 75 90 94 90 93 107 119 103 76 79 96 84 86 90 79 110 165 119 98 103 106 115 95 Magazine Representative Christina Norton Hazel Davis Myra Anderson Zona H. Roper Mrs. Elton Asay Ora Cannon Frances Merkley Mary Winkler Genevive Hawks Maria Buchanan Mabel Kofoed Sarah E. Commack Tacy Winmill Cassie Brown Emmeline Chaffin Emma J. Jensen Virginia Eldredge Helen Cheney Flossie Nebeker Ivena Brown Gladys E. Huntley Dorothy C. Robinson Lillian P. Stuart Irene K. Read Maida B. Bates Lillis H. Melander Mabel Roylance Gladys Ferbrache Mary Spencer 326 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1946 Bear River Stake Beaver 29 Elwood 41 Tremonton Second 127 Ben Lomond Stake 579 Lorin Farr 76 Ogden Twenty-ninth 50 Benson Stake Big Cottonwood Stake 624 Jottonwood 89 Mt. Olympus 153 Winder 80 28 110 452 123 680 107 Opha Packer Kate Petersen Pearl Perry Dora Shaffer Janusine N, Petersen Veda Gunnell Eloise Palmer Cora Daley Alta Hickman Ethel Palmer Maude P. Close Fannie Nelson Emily S. Blaylock Velma Jensen Anna W. Mills Irene Traveller Edna H. Robson Olive J. White Ruth J. Kuhre LaVon P. Smith Elaine Saunders Hilda A. Jordan Mabel G. Wood Jessie J. Robertson Louise Tuttle Mary Youst Virgie Allen Sally Griffin Lucille M. Webster Hope B. Eyre Rose H. Hoffman Garden Park Yale Yalecrest Burley Stake Burley First Burley Second Burley Third Declo Pella Springdale Star Unity View Cache Stake Logan Fourth Logan Ninth North Logan Cassia Stake Basin Marion Oakley First Oakley Second Oakley Third Chicago Stake Aurora Batavia Milwaukee Racine South Milwaukee University Cottonwood Stake Grant 109 179 115 5b4 73 178 175 780 101 110 145 576 137 752 104 101 Mildred Bradshaw Edith R. Lovesy and Margaret M. Cannon Irene Giauque and Mary Victor HONOR ROLL Jane R. Robinson Leona Hall Ella Boatman Gennetta D. Parker Julia A. Parke Emma Kesler Gladys Bowen Gertrude Durfee Ione Church Thelma Taylor Rachel Fuhriman LaVaun Hawkins Lenore Larsen Jane R. Hale Marian McIntosh Sarah Adams Angeline Martindale Jane R. Hale Tessie Burch Anna Belle Unger Louise Eilkson Lorraine Thorne Vivian Hart Martha Hubert Hertha Rathke Cora Freudenberg Merle S. Muir Hazel T. Clark | Collinston Deweyville East Garland Howell Park Valley Snowville Stone North Ogden Lewiston Third Richmond Trenton Holladay South Cottonwood Big Horn Stake Basin Belfry Burlington Byron Cody Cowley Iona 8 46 33 24 27 30 23 144 61 104 80 129 91 685 30 15 56 67 24 93 23 Rellef Society Mill Creek Murray Second Murray Third Taylorsville Valley Center Davis Stake Centerville First Kaysville First North Farmington Denver Stake Crestmore Denver First Laramie Deseret Stake Delta Third Hinckley Leamington Sugarville Sutherland Callao Duchesne Stake Arcadia Hanna East Jordan Stake Butler East Midvale Garden View ~ Midvale First Midvale Second Union First Union Second Enrollment 109 80 103 75 107 487 100 87 32 354 36 61 30 12 100 34 24 55 6 31 23 570 69 107 66 54 91 95 88 Subscriptions Pct. No. 100 60 147 79 133 380 82 88 38 285 37 75 42 11 75 31 20 43 6 32 27 6401/2 70 92 75 143 105 124 78 82 101 119 81 103 123 140 92 75 91 83 78 100 103 117 112 101 127 120 128 104 104 106 Magazine Representative Edna B. Harvey Elizabeth Nelson Mary A. Parker Bessie Jensen Myrtle Vincent Dora M. Smoot Edith Tingey Myrtle K. Larkins Doris S. Rigby May M. Varner Donna Fowler Lucy M. Thompson Rose Eads Sarah Church Vera Bishop Delia Nelson Tressa Jenson Cora Larsen Inez Tripp Ora N. Holgate La Vera Moon Verna Bishop Roberta Antach Geneva Jacobson and Rose Alexander Bertha Brunson Evelyn Jensen Mary Jenkins LaVern Smart Lydia Cook Relief Society Franklin Stake Fairview Linrose Mapleton Preston Fifth Weston Garfield Stake Kingston Granite Stake Fairmont Forest Dale Hawthorne Lincoln Marlborough Nibley Park Richards Grant Stake Hillerest Lorraine Smith Grantsville Stake Erda Gridley Stake Chico. Grass Valley Gridley Oroville Yuba City Gunnison Stake Gunnison Fnrollment 71 33 19 30 98 21 910 89 143 110 173 132 155 108 453 209 Subscriptions No. 66 26 27 28 87 21 929 89 143 111 183 136 156 111 384 94 81 80 15 181 18 24 49 20 47 88 Pet. Magazine Representative Bertha N. Cole Ruby J. Tanner Cora Knapp Emma B. Johnson Elnora Merrill Zelma Anderson Leone E. Carstensen Jennie Biesinger Sentella Pace Olive Erskine Elsie M. Marfell Ethel Arnold Emma Armstrong Elmea Flora Viola Cahoon Leah Miller Edith Elswood Elma Hampton Vivian Warr Violet Gray Carol McIntosh Nora Medlyn Florence Jensen Violet Gray Edna Johnson Orilla Wilkenson 328 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1946 East Mill Creek Stake Evergreen Grandview Rosecrest Wilford. Emery Stake Castle Dale: Clawson Cleveland Elmo Huntington Lawrence Orangeville Rochester Emigration Stake Eleventh Twelfth Thirteenth Twenty-first Twenty-seventh University Ensign Stake North Eighteenth North Twentieth West Ensign Farr West Stake Farr West Harrisville Marriott Mound Fort Plain City Slaterville 471 36 109 79 184 57112 80, 15 60 31 103 13 103 10 761 130 106 119 148 144 114 185% 81 96 475 49 74 50 102 98 32 86 100 109 T7 95 84 84 75 130 89 87 93 98 100 113 118 113 119 121 104 103 77 82 78 92 75 116 119 128 83 94 Eliza H. Groneman Florida Heugley Wilma Carter Minnie Kartchner Margaret Egelund Janice J. Scow Donna S. Huntington Jane Larsen Bell Allred Lillian I, Oviatt Ione Nielson Christina Hansen Blanche H. Nielson Delma Leslie Mary P. Jordan Annie De Lange Gertrude Russell Alma Erickson Myrtie B. Kenyon Eva Rydalch Clara H. Riggs Hazel V. Spencer Laverne Gill Geneve Holbrook Frances K. Pierce Elizabeth R. Garlick Wilhelmina L. Medell Sarah H. Parry Phyllis Hufsteller Sarah M. White Estella Ekins Highland Stake Highland Park Imperial Park Avenue Parleys Stratford Humbolt Stake Carlin Metropolis Winnemucca Wells Idaho Stake Bancroft Kelly-Toponce Idaho Falls Stake Ammon Iona Lincoln Idaho Falls Second Idaho Falls Third Idaho Falls Fifth Idaho Falls Sixth Inglewood Stake Brentwood Centinela Mar Vista Juab Stake Nephi North Juarez Stake Chuichupa Dublan Juarez Pacheco 483 143 58 72 87 123 116 19 13 12 31 79 30 682 106 92 49 105 106 112 112 73 107 124 100 160 23 33 62 9 470 128 46 80 124 92 91 17 10 14 24 68 25 713 110 92 49 105 111 126 120 66 85 104 89 133 20 39 53 Mh 97 90 79 111 143 75 78 89 77 117 gir 86 83 105 104 100 100 100 105 113 107 90 79 84 89 83 87 118 85 122 Rae J. Ashton Elsie Nordberg Beulah Spencer Ella Jensen Helen E. Bennett Leora Christensen Jennie D. White Charlotte Ferguson Gladys S. Bake Leona Brinkerhoff Tressa Hyde HONOR ROLL Robenia Christensen Lenna Bowler Clemey Young Christie Heath Amanda Pearce and Ada Muncie Lucial Davies. Leah Jameson Julia B. Kirby Anna Erickson Maida Young Emily E. Smith Enna B. Kennington Mary G. Walton Isabelle Sidwell Jennie Bowman Bertie Vance Melvina Jones Mildred Farnsworth w Aula Haynie 8 Relief Society Kanab Stake Moccasin Kolob Stake Springville First Springville Second Springville Third Springville Fourth Springville Fifth Springville Sixth Lake View Stake Hooper Kanesville Riverdale Roy Lehi Stake Lehi First Lehi Fifth Lethbridge Stake Barnwell Claresholm Liberty Stake Third Eighth Ninth Harvard Liberty North Second South Second Logan Stake College Logan Second Enrollment 12 661 126 96 90 102 96 72 513 184 30 94 112 120 75 59 32 642 - 94 121 70 107 124 68 58 53 64 Subscriptions Bet. No. 1238 586 100 100 100 42 58 75 99 119 105 104 82 125 81 78 78 113 88 79 103 80 88 88 91 101 83 130 93 81 79 79 79 91 Magazine Representative Margaret Heaton Maud Thorn Addie Underwood Louisa Wainwright Ellen T. Giles Esther Johnson Maud Peterson Leora Sundbloom Mable S. Bingham Florence Naisbitt Elva R. Schultz Pear] Champneys Jane E. Hyden Matilda Phillips Ruby Meredith Hazel Jensen Artence Rice Lila B. Pressler Alta Goates Sarah Hedges Lila B. Pressler Louise Kemp Alice Russell Rhoda B. Jackson Vesta H. Cahoon Nettie Abrams Frances Smith Relief Society Malad First Malad Second Malad Third Pleasant View Portage Reynolds Samaria St. John Maricopa Stake Lehi Mesa Third Mesa Fifth Pine Superior Millard Stake Fillmore Fillmore Second Flowell Holden Kanosh Minidoka Stake Acequia Emerson Hazelton Paul Rupert First Moapa Stake Boulder City Bunkerville Las Vegas First Las Vegas Second Littlefield Enrollment 74 101 107 30 56 11 42 87 33 108 155 18 14 589 134 77 28 97 89 34 22 26 39 39 560 83 35 130 88 14 Subscriptions Pet. No. 77 90 94 26 561/2 12 43 38 30 114 120 17 14 4511/, 107 80 28 77 84 27 18 31 40 30 524 62 31 114 113 13 104 89 88 87 101 109 102 103 91 106 77 94 100 77 80 104 100 79 94 79 82 119 103 77 94 75 89 88 128 93 Magazine Representative Pearl W. Thomas Eliza Johns Jemima Opperman Ada Ipsen Zina Harris Mabel J. Smith Emma Waldron Sara Pierce Naomi M. Nicoll Nina Stapley Lucy D. Chesley Ina P. Hunt Leona Robertson Melva W. Anderson Nada Melville Gussie Marshell Jennett Dimmick Della Hunter Elda Whitaker Hattie A. Hurd Louie Meacham Delilah J. Wickham Veda Platts Maybell Stevenson Lavon Adams Ellen Lloyd Ruby Leavitt Zella Wendel Mary W. Peters Minerva McKnight RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1946 330 Logan Sixth Providence First Young Long Beach Stake Bellflower Compton Compton Center Fullerton Huntington Beach Long Beach North Long Beach Park View Santa Ana San Pedro Wilmington Los Angeles Stake Arlington Hollywood Wilshire Lost River Stake Leadore Leslie Lost River Salmon Lyman Stake Manila Mt. View Rock Springs Superior Malad Stake Cherry Creek Holbrook 132 81 24 802 68 52 70 43 30° 145 108 157 48 32 49 68 95 107 14 25 35 62 25 20 66 28 490Y, 21 16 91 100 96 96 92 90 111 84 111 100 92 100 100 80 91 79 79 84 88 76 92 77 100 95 169 76 93 100 94 Martha Hug Clara Astle Emma Speth Annie Pittam Lettie Houston Georgenia Silver Henny S. Thomas Erthel Thatcher Lura Lockett Beatrice Corbridge Ellen Bramley Mary E. Myers Edith Scovil Josephine Teague Maggie Stoddard Ethel B. Timms Charlott O'Connor Eunice Van Slooten Edna Walton Wanda Malstrom Evelyn Pearson Merle Hodges Sarah Anson Selma Carpenter Elizabeth Bateman Martha Rock Fern A. Willie Thelma M. Jones Alice J. Hubbard Montpelier Stake Morgan Stake Moroni Stake Mount Graham Stake El Paso Branch 9 Gila 17 Mount Jordan Stake Draper Second 80 100 104 77 98 127 ni Nola Hannig Lavene Leavitt Barbara Robison Myrtle Steckler Jennie Sleight Elva Tanner Lola Skinner Eleanor Saxton Geniveve Kunz Faye London Ruth Francis Julia Carrigan Lilly Clark Agnes Gee Ardelle B. West Jennie Hubbard Ruth C. Romney Ella Farley Alice B. Gordon Edith Worden Lucy Barney Edna Richins Sarah Harrison Bertha C. Smith Lorraine D, Archibald Mary Smith HONOR ROLL 331 Logandale Mesquite Overton Bern Geneva Montpelier Fourth Nounan Raymond Wardboro Croydon Devil's Slide North Morgan Richville Freedom Solomonville Virden Crescent Granite Sandy Second 53 71 54 25 31 val 14 13 22 14 22 47 21 14 26 68 47 26 83 Relief Society Mount Ogden Stake Enrollment Ogden Twenty-third 65 Nampa Stake Kuna Marsing Melba Nampa First Nebo Stake Payson Second Spring Lake Nevada Stake Kimberly Lund McGill Ruth New York Stake Bay Ridge Manhattan Queens Westchester North Box Elder Stake Bear River 40 33 30 63 Brigham City Third 178 Brigham City Fourth Brigham City Seventh Corinne Evans Harper Honeyville 198 61 86 21 28 70 No. 77 31 26 27 63 106 Subscriptions Pct. 118 78 79 90 100 77 75 92 78 83 100 75 80 96 98 85 108 132 100 100 126 100 129 130 100 Magazine Representative Pearl C. Baggs Sybil Johnson Mildred Percifield Myrtle Wood Florence Adams Zora Hurst Anna Thomas Erma Wolfenstein Edith Reed Anna Hugg Maud Mufflin Ethel L. Handley Lilly Arveseth Louise Hucke Viola Fulton Mrs. Edward E. Smith Mary Noel Rigby Adaline Anderson Eliza P. Taggart LaVerna F. Jeppson Lila D. Wright Rose B. Nelson Margaret Smith Liona R. May LaVoy H. Chlarson Relief Society North Weber Stake Ogden Third Oahu Stake Kaimuki Oakland Stake Diamond East Richmond Elmhurst Fairfield Hayward Maxwell Park Napa Oakland Pittsburg Richmond Vallejo Ogden Stake Eden Huntsville Liberty Ogden Fourth Ogden Sixth Ogden Thirteenth Ogden Twentieth Oneida Stake Glendale Preston Third Riverdale Oxford Oquirrh Stake Granger First Enrollment 119 36 922 84 53 89 14 63 60 29 95 40 47 54 789 39 96 22 136 152 162 182 11 95 43 28 765 118 No. 122 27 Subscriptions Pet. 1038 75 Magazine Representative Martha M. Burnett Elizabeth P. Lambert Lila F. Graham Edna Torgenson Darlene Brown Beth R. Manning Edith Swartz Helen Smith Geraldine Compton Gwendolyn Mufish Edna E. Doxey Berma Maughan Meryl Asay Helen A. Shurtleff Lois D. Smith Eva Hogge Aduana J. Aldows Florence Hill Violet Perkins and Rosella Ellis Lottie Ellis Itha Bieler Viola Martin Eulalia W. Larson Myrtle Anderson Barbara S. Meek Oneida Anderson Gladys U. Baldee Edna Hill RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1946 332 North Carbon Stake Castle Gate 64 Helper 74 Scofield 13 Standardville 24 North Davis Stake 687 Clearfield First 97 Clearfield Second 67 East Layton 78 Syracuse 110 Sahara Village 15 North Idaho Falls Stake 641 Beaver Creek 16 Coltman 44 Hamer 24 Idaho Falls First 87 Idaho Falls Fourth 131 Idaho Falls Seventh 75 Milo 43 Osgood 52 Shelton 43 Terreton 29 Ucon 97 North Sanpete Stake Milburn 14 Mountainville 14 Mount Pleasant South 139 North Sevier Stake Aurora 80 Redmond 85 Vermillion 22 Mary Babcock Estella Gale Sarah Donaldson Jennie Kofford Golda Williams Zella Smith Ida Stoddard Vera A. Adams May Sessions Katherine Benton Margaret Sayer Afton L. Thomas Mrs. Arthur L. Nelson Bernice Bybee Nettie Brown Alberta Staker Ethol D. Lees Emily Palmer Annie Morgan Dale Burtenshaw Marie Acor Helen J. Tracy Fannie M. Graham LaRue Burnside Bernice Coates Ila Shepherd Stella Peterson May Gledhill Granger Second 109 Palmyra Stake 770 Birdeye 10 Lake Shore 70 Leland 46 Palmyra 40 Spanish Fork First 80 Spanish Fork Second 100 Spanish Fork Third 110 Spanish Fork Fourth 92 Spanish Fork Fifth 102 Thistle 21 Park Stake 697 Parowan Stake New Castle 20 New Harmony 25 Pasadena Stake 806 Alhambra 92 Baldwin Park 53 Belvedere 91 Eastmont 83 El Monte 62 El Sereno 41 Mission Park 58 Monrovia 67 Montebello. 64 103 103 114 101 130 127 112 111 101 107 107 100 116 Hattie L. Woodbury Fannie P. Little Myrtle D. Russon Hannah E. Coon Lenora Gull Rachel Spencer May Barney Myrtle L. Woffenden; Ruth Roach Dottie Neilson Grace Meiling Pearl Cloward Hazel J. Christensen Ruth J. Hone Kate Anderson Jennie White Esdale W. Kelsey Margaret Runnels Anna Buie Rachel Larsen HONOR ROLL Cora B. Murie Geneva H. Gillies Emma G. Neilson Sadie Liebig Bertha Raymond Affa Caldwell Ivy Elwood Estella Teetro Mary Wilde Dorothy McAllister Rose Jackson Martha Hanks Rose Willard 333 Hercules Pleasant Green Spencer Salem Emigration First Tenth Enoch 18 105 50 99 68 130 157 35 Relief Society Pasadena Rosemead Phoenix Stake Avondale Buckeye Capitol Glendale Phoenix First Phoenix Second Phoenix Third Phoenix Fourth Pocatello Stake Fort Hall Pocatello Second Pocatello Sixth Pocatello Seventh Pocatello Twelfth Enrollment 71 60 468 18 11 62 41 109 76 113 38 665 22 145 80 51 54 Poeatello Thirteenth 105 Portneuf Stake Garden Creek Marsh Center McCammon Merrill Swan Lake Virginia Provo Stake - Bonneville Manavu Provo Fifth Provo Seventh Provo Eighth Provo Ninth 27 18 87 12 29 34 591 90 91 82 95 75 62 Subscriptions No. Pet. 84 60 524 15 12 90 51 96 Tf 145 36 547 17 164 73 49 48 117 118 100 112 83 109 145 124 88 104 128 95 82 77 113 91 96 89 111 100 89 78 75 86 91 96 80 162 82 80 109 85 Magazine Representative Mable Martin Gwen Boyd Mildred Smithson Mary Hunt Gertrude Skousen Minnie Aston Julia Kremer Clara Dell Dewitt Phoebe Thomson Edith Alexander Florence Clint Alta R. Swallow Irene Wood Loal Griggs Lillie Woodland Melva Ellsworth Bertha Glick Mary Howells Lucile Capell Gertrude Paris Zina Orgill La Vene Pilgrim Marie Henderson May Barfus Elsie Moffitt Edyth R. Maxfield Olive Taylor Fannie S. Whimpey Mary Josie Nellie Long Ophelia Edwards Relief Society Rigby Second Rigby Third Rigby Fourth Ririe Riverside Stake Center Fifteenth Riverside Roosevelt Stake Ballard Randlett Roosevelt Sacramento Stake Arcade Homestead Stockton Sutter Tracy Woodland St. George Stake Gunlock Mt. Trumbull Pine Valley St. George Center St. George South Santa Clara Veyo Washington Enrollment 143 160 515 Subscriptions No. 46 54 75 102 gl 110 44 53 20 128 400 60 Pat. 82 113 100 107 100 77 86 189 0 80 78 100 85 110 105 120 112 75 117 78 92 81 77 83 100 83 Magazine Representative Ruby Wolfensberger Ada C. Doman Elma Holbrook Ines E. Laughlin Eva Gledhill Anna M. Schoenhals Hillevi Daniels Ellen Bracken Jessie P. Pickup Fern Benson Marie Gibby Henrietta Murdock Lesslie H. Stubbs Jennette E. Rooker Alice Earheart Sarah Dana Vendha Gordon Helen F. Hafen Rayma Bowler Maurine Bundy Elizabeth L. Jacobson Ida McAllister Nellie W. Bringhurst Selina Hafen Mildred Bowler Ione C. Waite 334 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1946 Raft River Stake Malta Moulton Sublett Yost Reno Stake Carson Fallon Hawthorne Lovelock Portola Reno Sparks Westwood Rexburg Stake Archer Burton Hibbard Independence Lyman New Dale Plano Rexburg Second Rexburg Third Rexburg Fourth Teton City Rigby Stake Fidelity Garfield Grant Lewisville Lorenzo Menan Palisade Rigby First 129 49 10 11 15 80 117 125 100 94 98 100 100 79 100 100 98 112 117 85 114 90 83 88 125 122 103 83 75 119 77 92 86 89 102 104 104 100 100 107 Alice O. Neddo Alice O. Neddo Julia H. Clark Sylvia Olsen Eva Montgomery Rosetta Gillies Marie Tononi Viola Miller Ada M. Jensen Florence Milich Lucy Kenny Eva Goff Elmina Cummins Susan Tribe Mary E. Hunt Leah B. Cheney Zina Clark Sophia Saurey Pauline Perry Celia Hales Louie Graham Beulah Steel Ellen Cook June P. Ricks Emogene Manwaring Mary Nibley Alta B. Barnes Hattie Jacobson Ethel Groom Annie Hymas Donna Casper La Retta Tibbitts Grace Berrett Helma Oakden Lois Taylor St. Johns Stake Alpine Eagar Luna Nutrioso St. Joseph §take Ashurst Bryce Central Emery Eden Globe Miami Pima Thatcher Salt Lake Stake Capitol Hill Fourteenth Ninteeenth Twenty-second Twenty-third San Bernardino Stake Fontana Ontario Riverside San Bernardino Second Victorville San Diego Stake College Fairmount Hillerest Logan Heights 17 96 34 16 541 25 21 60 23 26 49 50 124 163 833 719 124 83 100 39 303 20 33 53 55 29 14 339 35 58 59 35 23 77 26 15 451 25 16 50 18 20 37 50 109 126 689 91 130 16 88 41 305 22 29 63 65 45 15 315 35 67 52 48 Eliza Jepson Harriet Pulsipher Erma B. Laney Thelma Mangum Pearl Cluff Hazel B. Bryce Nellie Dixon Winnie Smith Lucy A. Chesley Eliza Carpenter Ann R. Shaw Ella Sims Rula Colvin Nira P. Lee Mabel H. Burgoyne Anna S. D. Johnson Mary A. Kirkham Frieda Jones May S. Hawkes Frances E. J. Dastrup Ruth Irwin Alice S. Walker Eunice B. Allred Donna Jensen Laura Lee Hilliker Sarah Lewis Fay Adams Hanna Borneman Gladys Brimhall Ruth Rigby Olive B. Smith Nancy Byrd HONOR ROLL 335 Pomona: Relief Society San Fernando Stake Elysian Park 70 Garvanza Van Nuys 62 San Francisco Stake 477 Enrollment Balboa Burlingame Mission Naglee Park Palo Alto Redwood City San Francisco San Jose Sunset Willow Glen San Juan Stake Blanding Bluff La Sal Lockerby Moab San Luis Stake Morgan Richfield 34 63 24 59 Santaquin-Tintic Stake Elberta Eureka 16 72 Subscriptions No. 60 30 55 84 33 25 53 452 40 48 17 79 Pet. 83 77 79 V7 100 Magazine Representative Abbie Kimball Maurine McEwen Ruia Olson Elizabeth Burnett Venice Lund Leona Allen Thora Ward Nell Marie Benson Mary Sernack Betty H. Bevan Eleanor Guinn Lula J. Wall Agnes Felch Marie Meier Ann E. Savard Eliza J. Horsfield Josephine Danford June Ellis Lucille P. Wright Bernice Burtenshaw Eva Johnson Inez Stevens Maxine Johnson Mabel Johnson Grace Price EuDell Hutchinson Harriet E. Barney Melba Hansen Relief Society Showlow Snowflake Taylor Winslow Woodruff South Box Elder Stake Enrollment 52 132 66 56 20 625 Brigham City Second 105 Brigham City Sixth Willard South Davis Stake Bountiful First Bountiful Fifth Orchard South Bountiful West Bountiful South Los Angeles Stake Downey Firestone Park Grant Huntington Park © Manchester Matthews Maywood South Gate Vermont @ Walnut Park South Ogden Stake Ogden Ninth Ogden Eighteenth Uintah 100 87 725 134 36 90 98 136 832 61 34 46 111 96 Subscriptions Pct. No. 44 115 59 48 21 10471/ 85 87 89 86 105 82 120 127 92 83 87 128 106 81 82 126 108 168 120 115 154 119 133 115 126 122 100 110 83 Magazine Representative Naomi Bushman Lydia Peterson Idell H. Solomon Hazel H. Wilhelm Charlotte Allen Florence Baird Ezma L. Knudson Elizabeth Christofferson Martha V. Wells Jean M. Bangerter Lottie Ballard Norma S. Benoit Leona H. Arbuckle Cora M. Nelson Norma Taylor Etta Glover Florence Heath Anna Struhs Florence Neiswander Hazel Dunford Ida Snyder Ramona Wells Lillie Griffiths Yuline Neilsen Seraph Allred Viva Wright Ada Gibbons Nellie Vander Zee Regine Anderson 336 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1946 North Park Ocean Beach Reseda San Fernando 72 39 a3} 28 Seattle Stake Bellingham Everett Olympia Queen Ann Renton West Seattle Sevier Stake Greenwich Richfield First Richfield Second Richfield Third Sigurd Venice Sharon Stake Sharon Shelley Stake Basalt Firth Goshen Kimball Shelley First Taylor Smithfield Stake Smithfield First Snowflake Stake Claysprings Flagstaff Heber Holbrook Joseph City Lakeside Pinedale 496 36 18 18 47 37 61 660 17 110 100 94 45 50 42 530 45 54 62 18 76 33 85 602 24 63 23 50 54 43 19 386 32 26 14 50 30 62 556 16 121 101 94 34 39 50 427 AT 60 50 30 68 27 76 562 18 63 23 43 54 50 16 78 89 144 78 106 81 102 84 94 110 101 100 76 78 119 111 167 Melva S. Westra Ella M. Petrie Ida Hansen Mary Canning Birdie S. Bean Audrey Edwards Hazel B. Doble Vilda J. Helquist Mildred Nielson Mary Emett Elise Stillman Anna M. Nielson Maurine Snedeger Rinda B. Buchanan Lovisa A. Mangum N. Florence Hanny Thelma Hoskins Grace Smith Rozena Dial Florence Gifford Diantha Cox and Dora Cox Marvel Peterson Jessie Littledike Coral S. Peterson Nellie M. Hunt Martha W. Thomas June Brewer Myrtle T. Greer Maurine Porter Luella Burk Jane M. Jackson South Salt Lake Stake 518 Burton 80 Central Park 91 Columbus 100 Eldredge 92 Miller 90 South Gate 65 South Sanpete Stake Ephraim South 103 South Sevier Stake Monroe North 113 South Summit Stake 369 Southern Arizona Star Valley Stake 630 Auburn 29 533 83 95 126 93 70 66 47 85 95 48 93 29 311 27 41 85 37 30 291 31 46 40 54 47 521 85 23 32 39 60 103 104 104 126 101 78 102 85 83 84 83 82 138 84 113 79 125 103 100 79 86 110 93 93 104 83 83 ne 97 103 115 Hedy T. Davies Alice Anderson Florence Sandberg Hannah Dietrich Melvina Dust Leona Watson Mary McCashland Clarissa Hansen Agusta Olsen Ada Dyring Hettie Dalton Josie Nielson Lillian Bridges Arlene B. Lemon Arlene B. Lemon Veda Snyder Kathryn E. Hansen Neoma Isakson LeVene Frazjer Bertha McGee Hazel Spears Mary U. Haynie Eva Harmon Florence Bateman Mary L. Schnebly Roene Barrus Laura E. Lee Marie Cranney Rozina Casto Gwen Wolfley Maud Ranzenberg HONOR ROLL 337 Ephraim North Manti Center Annabella Sevier Marion Oakley Park City Second Peoa Woodland Stake Bisbee Douglas Pomerene St. David Whitewater Afton North Bedford Etna Fairview 55 113 58 21 24 52 68 36 30 367 36 42 43 58 45 103 83 38 52 Relief Society Freedom Grover Osmond Thayne Sugar House Stake Bryan Edgehill Laurelcrest Wasatch Summit Stake Cluff Upton Taylor Stake Magrath First Magrath Second Raymond First Raymond Second Stirling Tyrells Lake Welling Teton Stake Bates Cedron Darby Victor Timpanogos Stake Lindon Manila Enrollment 82 42 33 - 62 155 151 51 135 21 15 513 77 90 92 130 64 11 22 26 19 23 71 499 73 44 Pleasant Grove First 107 Subscriptions No. 77 42 26 62 126 130 65 126 16 12 533 79 98 82 136 72 20 24 26 20 22 75 461 73 39 107 Pet. 94 100 79 100 81 86 127 93 76 80 104 Magazine Representative Carol Luthi Laura C. Astle Mabel Allred Leta Coffman Catherine Sipkema Afton S. Farnsworth Pearl J. Boyle Florence H. Tate Florence B. Staples Eva Jacobson Lisadore B. Crookston Beula Bennett Freda Henderson Irene Cooper Ivy Jensen Lulu Michelson Clara E. Selk Anna Wilde Erma Wood Leatha Kunz Eva Hillman Bernice Atkinsen Lucile H. Walker Ella Smith Marie Brown Anne Nelson Relief Society Utah Stake Provo Fourth Provo Sixth Uvada Stake Caliente Hiko Pioche Ursine Wasatch Stake Center Charlston Daniel Heber First Heber Second Heber Third Midway First Midway Second Wallsburg Washington Stake Fairview Washington Wayne Stake Grover Hanksville Lyman Teasdale Weber Stake Ogden Eleventh Terrace Enrollment 118 105 70 6 62 9 604 26 37 50 91 98 112 72 76 42 36 58 93 50 Subscriptions No. 106 86 72 40 Pet. 90 82 79 83 131 100 112 135 122 104 114 110 111 114 103 108 75 84 78 90 89 85 17 80 Magazine Representative Ethel Lundahl Jane B. Evans Vera Calvert Jewel S. Hansen Hertha Kroencke Zina Hammond Lillie L. Duke Lila Christensen Thresa Simons Sarah C. Price Violet L. Olpin Edna Young Ethel Johnson Celeste Van Wagoner Thelma Blood Areva Boren Lorraine Monn Dorothy B. Billings Nellie Rymer Elora Ekker Anetta Maxfield Angeline H. Coleman Viola M. Royle Thelma Weir 338 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1946 Pleasant Grove Second 98 Pleasant Grove Third 90 Windsor Tooele Stake Stockton Tooele First Tooele Fourth Twin Falls Stake Kimberly Twin Falls First Uintah Stake Ashley Bonanza Glines Jensen Maeser Naples Tridell Vernal First Vernal Third Whiterocks Union Stake Baker Imbler LaGrande First LaGrande Second Pendleton Union 87 32 79 94 41 121 648 41 10 40 53 75 71 36 62 74 20 310 40 23 74 70 35 42 81 68 93 26 62 79 38 117 576 82 14 38 46 77 71 37 66 90 16 290 41 21 69 70 36 89 107 Josie Rasmussen Marjorie Weeks Blanche Nielson Elva Benson Mrs. John D. Speirs Pearl Spray Nina B. Cunningham Lenore Carroll Sarah H. Richardson Annie Morrison Zora Gurr Viola Burns Ida Murry Rhoda Hatch Myrtle Collier Eva Trujillo Mary A. Eaton Alice Billings Myrtle Hoopes Viola Fullmer Sadie E. Shelton Ella Fox Edna Condit Geneva Westenskow Helen R. Mansel) Clarice Kohler Weiser Stake Cascade Fruitvale Huntington Letha McCall Nyssa Ontario Owyhee Vale Weiser Wells Stake Belvedere Ivins Jefferson McKay McKinley Waterloo Wells West Jordan Stake Bluffdale Copperton Herriman Riverton First Riverton Second West Pocatello Stake Arbon Pocatello First Pocatello Third 1370 174 206 226 113 170 111 146 708 46 60 42 73 74 743 20 83 158 381 13 3 11 38 8 75 44 28 44 60 12041, 156 180 287 1221/, 127 95 117 53314 42 53 54 73 79 719 15 85 128 81 100 100 138 90 114 121 80 100 110 98 88 90 87 127 108 75 86 80 75 91 88 129 100 107 97 75 102 81 Fannie Chandler Clara MeMurdie Irene Burt Lucinda Harrington Katie Sims Violetta Smith Selma Poulsen Minnie Christiansen Vivian Ashley Avis Belnap Fannie Chandler HONOR ROLL Edith H. Koelliker Rowena Jensen Merle Wennhold and Claribel A. Griffith Edith Jones Rebecca Jones Cleone Layton and LeVern Black Foncet Young Isabella Brooks Olivia M. Egbert Vina Webb Lucille Hansen Agnes Dansie Judith Morgan Blanche Myers Reta Austin Blanche Bailey Emma Hurst Maude Selover 339 ment No. Magazine Magazine Pet. EnrollSubscriptions Representative ment No. Pet. Relief Society Pocatello Fifth Pocatello Ninth Pocatello Tenth 89 18 103 Pocatello Eleventh 107 Rockland Woodruff Stake Hilliard Yellowstone Stake Ashton Chester Egin Farnum Green Timber Heman Kilgore Parker St. Anthony First St, Anthony Third Twin Groves Young Stake Allison Cortez Jewett Kirtland Kline Mancos Red Mesa Shiprock Zion Park Stake Hurricane North Hurricane South LaVerkin Rockville Springdale 71 327 101 59 94 152 63 113 76 91 142 89 120 96 93 78 121 124 100 100 108 100 150 116 150 88 100 75 83 135 100 109 106 90 88 90 106 76 82 132 Anna Egbert Leone Baldwin Anna Martin Hattie Tolman Zina Eliason Lucille Brown Katie S. Rudd Juanita Osborne Edna Rose Eva Dexter Geneva French Dora Stegelmier Fanny F. Hunter Hedwig Herschi Chloe Rice Ada B, Christensen Vesta H. McDowell Elsia Huskinson Lois F. Palmer Verna Behrman Annie Hinton C. Mae Hunt Lois Palmer Loretta Slade Nina M. Halls Lora Brady Josephine Maher Jessie H. Gibson Annabell Hall Lillian Roundy Sarah A. Sanders Vilo DeMille Della Hardy Oshawa Toronto Central States East St. Louis Hutchinson Joplin Kansas City Larned Leavenworth Miami Oklahoma City Sedalia Stillwater Tulsa East Central States Bluefield Charlston Elizabeth City Goldsboro Huntington Knoxville Norfolk Roanoke North Carolina West Durham Greensboro Jackson Springs 3 41 20 14 15 6 Eastern States Mission Bradford Buffalo Canandaigua 7 14 9 3 32 14 7 17 38 8 9 10 23 8 10 12 100 78 93 78 106 78 80 90 143 Ella F. Crouter Margaret Schulzke Leah B. Rocks Arline Hammel Louise Crouch Kathryn L. Squire Ruby M. Freeman Anna E. Bowen Mrs. J. E. Sandmire Pearl Anderson Augusta Rowlette Harriet V. Berry Mamie L. Moore Laura Hambrick Mrs. W. E. Edens Lorna H. McPherson Bertie Epps Ona Schroath Marjorie Powell Minnie Lee Woodward Odell Gladden Georgia Bennett Carrie Stevens Betty Lee Mary Ellen Lovell Louise C. Winspear Nellie Lodge RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1946 Relief Society Subscriptions Representative 'Enrollan P} Australian Adelaide Bankstown Brisbane Enmore Glen Huon Hurstville Melbourne Perth Woollahra California Imperial Valley E! Centro Las Flores Lompoc Santa Maria Mojave Desert Barstow Lancaster 'Tehachapi Trona Banning Elsinore Santa Barbara Oxnard Santa Barbara South Coast Escondido Laguna Beach Canadian Mission Brantford Kingston Kitchener 240 14 168 SO? 1) 00 335 128 Ore 140 115 81 145 105 260 300 113 93 289 75 91 114 135 92 118 78 133 100 80 125 96 114 80 88 100 76 100 120 75 Violet Cook Ivory Crane Rea Stewart Nell Brown Margaret Rood Margery Watson Elsie F. Parton Katie Hokin Eunice Compton Mavis L. Burroughs Thelma Miller Mrs. Thomas Call Avis D. Moscrip Lydia B. Triplett Ola Mae Force Ethel M. Wills Ruth D. Brown Etta Williamson Laura Corbridge Cora Seymour Virginia Gardner Ivie Anderson Josephine R. Roberts Elizabeth C. Andersen Elizabeth G. Wahlen Mae Peterson Jessie R. Ursenbach Gladys Meek Delcie E. Nobes Beatrice Kuehner Chambersburg Palmyra Philadelphia Pittsburgh Princeton Reading Rochester Washington York New England Bangor Concord Fall River Lynn New Bedford Newport Springfield North Central States 214 Billings Duluth Ft. Frances Glasgow Minneapolis Tower Northern California Alturas Coalinga Eureka Fresno East Grants Pass Hydesville Tone King City Merced Oakdale 30 11 3 11 54 4 100 150 133 100 100 155 100 100 125 100 127 81 81 100 114 100 75 Beulah Shoemaker Grace L. Bump Carrie Obendorfer Virginia Birtcher Marion Thoburn Pearl D. Yeager Helen E. Boas Hazel Danley Sylvia E. Rahn HONOR ROLL Georgia Ward Jennie Anderson Mary A. West Christie L. Olsen Eleanor Rimmor Mary A. Frost Mable G. Fales Ann J. Killpack June Hoen Mary A. Hanson Ethel C. Shine Emma _ Humphries Nina C. Thorne Mrs. Ross A. Bruneau Mary B. Powell Ethyl Buttcane Vivian C. Bonniksen Hazel Facer Anna R. Neff Mima Williams May H. Frasure Ebba D. Terry Nora Johnson Mary C. Rich 341 Relief Society Orland Pacific Grove Placerville Santa Cruz Santa Rosa Sunnyvale Watsonville Northern States Central Indiana Cambridge City Columbus Enrollment 11 17 13 18 21 11 11 Central Ohio Dayton Marion North Indiana Muncie Peru North Michigan Flint North Ohio Cleveland North & South Illinois Bloomington Clinton Decatur Galesburg Springfield South Indiana Linton Subscriptions No. Pet. 10 14 13 15 18 9 12 91 82 100 83 86 82 109 81 79 117 88 100 138 100 Magazine Representative Hanna Bihler Letha Nuttal Grace DeGiovanni Audrey Sommer Martha Fisher M. Julia Sylvester Leah Butler Margaret E. Sharrer Bertha Lilly Alice King Frieda Surface lla Harvey Erma C. Boam Zella Knudson Elizabeth Stevens Auna Schmidt Helen St. Pierre Hazel Robison Rena P. Custer Neva M. Hursh Lettie Crews Freda Belle Allen Rena P. Custer Frances BE. Canady Ruby L. Anders Relief Society Great Falls Bynum Fairfield Golden Ridge Great Falls Simms Vaughn Missoula Allendale Charlo Hamilton Polson Northern Montana Chinook Cut Bank Harlem Havre Shelby Spokane Creston, B. C. Grand Coulee North Spokane Sandpoint Yakima Klickitat Pasco-Kennewick Sunnyside Toppenish Yakima Enrollment 126 16 20 13 39 11 27 18 38 32 10 No. 140 15 20 13 55 10 27 14 31 28 10 31 Subscriptions Pet. 111 94 100 100 141 91 100 79 Magazine Representative Rae E. Austin Lucy Stott Florence Davidson Leah Eddington Vera Nelson Anna Jensen Jetta Rushton Margaret Henderson Esther Swainston Oretta Blodgett Venetta Brower Olga Blatter Eleanor Packer Nelly Johnson Madge Johnson Mary Primm Dolly L. Wilcox Idella Thomson: Leona Hickman Madeline Ellis Virginia Pease Hannah E. Crimin Ada C. Richardson Jennie W. Stringham Lorraine O. Cobbley Retta Brashear Olga P. Paradis 342 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1946 South Indianapolis 49 West Iowa Des Moines West Michigan Battle Creek Gary Jackson Wisconsin Eau Claire Fond du lac Lyndhurst North western States Bend Buckley Fairbanks Gresham Oregon City Prineville Puyallup Redmond The Dalles Victoria, B. C. Veronia Washougal Butte Bozeman Helena Centra] Oregon Coos Bay Lebanon Roseburg Sweet Home 89 89 82 91 76 88 125 136 78 82 109 120 100 108 80 114 80 118 122 80 118 89 76 101 100 142 83 100 Eliza Christiansen Mabe] Hunt Amy M., Landeck Bessa P. Williams Haze] Branham Luella Schroeder Minnie McDougal Selma Hofman Lenora K, Bringhurst Jessie A. Kenning. Ton Ruby M. Smith Neva A, Funk Ruth E, Jones Vanda M. Marchant Bessie L., Colomb Rose Glick Irene Butler Juanita Hoffman Maneta Price Alice Carlson Maude L,. Dean Marie J, Monson Lucile Rossiter lla R., Miller Opal M. Smith Josephine Shurts soUuise Duval] Leone FE, Burnett Southern States Mission Centra] Florida Orlando Tampa Winter Haven Florida Gainsville San Mateo Springfield Wesconnett Georgia Atlanta Augusta Columbus East Point Macon Milledgeville North Alabama Elkmont McCalla 89 Effie F. Meeks 81 Sophronia Ae 119 Ruth Gray 78 Clyde Legler 122) 3 Marie Moore HONOR ROLL mM E s = 112 Carrie D. Valentine 100 Bertha G. Arline 100 Corene J, Bethea 122 Annie Ree Thomas 100 Essie M. Dukes 100 Aimee §. Willis 117 Evelyn M. Tilton 188 Annie Johnson 86 Elizabeth Jammes 78 Bertha Cook 88 Madeline Cassele 118 Bertha Cook 76 Pauline Gilbert 100 Mary RE, Gibson 117, Lueille Bennett 79 Vallie Taylor 76 Pear] M. Thames 75 Ellen E. Ladner 86 Otilla Griner 122 Viola Lee 83 Ludie Bates 92 Mary Quinnelly 79 Nellie Caleote 100 Annie Lee Roberts 127 Mary L, Vining 343 Relief Society EnrollSubscriptions Magazine Relief Society EnrollSubscriptions Magazine ment No. Pet. Representative ment No. Pet. Representative + North Mississippi West South Carolina 75 76, 102 Mary Parris Senatobia 4 4 100 Stella Williams Abbeville 11 11 100 Allie E. Fant Aiken 4 a 100 Cathern Goldmon South Alabama 58 89 153 Mary E. McIntosh i. ~ a fe im <= — Azalia 16 47 7 Mary E. McIntosh Spartanburg 13 15 115 Annie Taylor Montgomery = an ue po. Oo Magnolia aine Martin T se Missi Selma 4 3 75 Dora Tuberville mg — egy ee — |; —_— 10 19 190 Elsine Martin North Texas 39 30 77 Annie M. Ellsworth Western Canadian South Carolina 156 131 84 Ida Smith Mission 94 82 87 Pearl C. Card Charleston 24 24 100 Belle S. Woods Beaver Crossing 17 13 76 Leah Evans Columbia 22 22 100 Lottie Joyner Edmonton 33 33 100 Christina Barker Darlington 12 9 75 Hegel, Sons Medicine Hat 13 11 85 —, — Regi 16 16 100 Isobel F. B Hartsville 25 20 80 Malcolm Fagan = — a Ridgeway 21 27 129 Lily N. Branham Western States South Florida 87 -—«65-—75Nellio E, Cunning. | Misston SUL 438 Oe eit Heatings am: Bradenton 6 (7 117 Lyndon Levins TT ©6«2)Ss«d107 Mary G. McNeil West Palm Beach 24 19 79 Lottie Brown Bridgeport 9 9 100 Mary Sue Chase Casper 21 21 100 G. Orollinger South Georgia 69 7 112 Lottie Dugger Colorado Springs 14 13 93 Ella Huffaker Moultrie 5 6 120 Mildred Barlow Council Bluffs 20 16 80 Gretta C. Charlies Axson 27 25 93 Cappie Mizell Fruita 17 15 88 Cora Dennis Savannah 18 24 133 Alberta Clifton Gallup 16 17 106 Plannie Davis Waycross 19 22 116 Arzella Jordan Hurley 10 9 90 Oletta Connell Lincoln 16 14 88 Rose L. Newbill West Florida 123 101 82 Mrs. Jeremiah Montrose 24 18 75 Bernice M. Bruner Sims North Platte 9 7 78 Artella Poulsen Bristol 14 13 93 Mrs. L. V. Adams Omaha sere aT 75 Inez N. Burt Olive 7 qT 100 Julie Mae Kennedy Paonia 18 17 94 Mary C. Rogers Panama City 19 15 79 Mrs. D. D. Clanton Rapid City 8 8 100 Elizabeth Thomas Sink Creek 22 25 114 Mrs. Leo Sims Roswell 5 5 100 Afton T. Rich Telogia 8 8 80 Mattie Lee Duggar Sheridan 13 21 162 Alice Lamb RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 9146 FROM THE FIELD Margaret C. Pickering, General Secretary-Treasurer Regulations governing the submittal of material for ''Notes from the Field" appear in the Magazine for February 1944, page 104. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE ACTIVITIES AND SPECIAL PROGRAMS Denver Stake Laramie Ward (Wyoming) ROM Denver Stake, under the presidency of Erma A. Rice, an interesting historical account of the Laramie Ward has been received through the president, Chloe B. Peterson: "Twenty-five years ago the Laramie Branch of the Relief Society was organized with Thurza Ellsworth Boyle as president, Mary Brown Bowman and Ida F. Lutz counselors, and Chloe B. Peterson, secretary-treasurer. Only a_ few L. D. S. Families were here perDENVER STAKE, LARAMIE WARD (WYOMING) RELIEF SOCIETY OFFICERS Left to right: Assistant Secretary Cornelia M. Quayle; Secretary Ila T. Davis; President Chloe B. Peterson; First Counselor Helena T. Hopkins; Second Counselor Mary Hunter. Page 345 346 manently and we met in our homes. After sixteen years the Church built an institute and chapel. We now have a beautiful building to meet in, with the use of an entertainment room, library, and study halls. "Each yeat we have observed March 17th with an appropnate program and entertainment. This year (1945) a covered dish dinner was served in the evening to twentyeight members and their husbands. Four large tables were set and decorated, one for each season of the year. Persons whose birthdays occurred in a certain season were seated at that particular table. Sister Marjean Hunter Wall took first place for her prize-winning winter decorations. Point-free hot dishes took the place of meat and four large birthday cakes were served. Janet Partridge sang two solos and a talk on the organization of the first Relief Society was given by Elizabeth Foster and a reading by Elizabeth Anderson. "During the summer we will meet twice a month, once for work and business and once for recreation, also for a pioneer day celebration and a park picnic. The mothers and daughters held their first banquet in this ward June 19, 1945. Over sixty were present. All members are good and willing workers and we have plenty of good times along with our work. Each year we hold a rummage sale. We made $130 on the last sale. Out in the mission our work has been hard at times, but now we are organized as a ward in the Denver Stake. Relief Society is indeed a help to all who attend. The Lord has blessed us here. May he bless all the organizations throughout the world." RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1946 Me ELIZABETH A. BENNETT Malad Stake, Malad Second Ward Malad Stake (Idaho) Malad Second Ward ' AMELIA W. SPENCER, teacher trainer, Malad Second Ward, reports an unusual record in the visiting teachers' program: "Recently when our Malad Second Ward Relief Society was reorganized, the new presidency and the bishopric met together with all the visiting teachers, and every teacher was given a blessing and set apart for her work. "As our bishop, W. W. Thomas, interviewed each teacher, it was found that many of them have marvelous service records. One, especially, has a record of fifty-eight years of continuous service in the Relief Society. NOTES FROM THE FIELD "Sister Elizabeth A. Bennett was born in England in 1864. She was baptized into the Church in 1881, and arrived in Salt Lake City in 1883 with her young baby. Her husband, John A. Bennett, had come to the Valley two months earlier. When she was twenty years old, Elizabeth Bennett joined her first Relief Society and, in June 1888, she was set apart as a teacher in the Relief So- 347 ciety at Albion, Idaho, and has served in various ways in the Relief Society ever since, which gives her a record of fifty-eight years of service. She is now eighty-one years young and visits her district every month. I cautioned her to be careful and not overdo her strength, and she said: 'Does it ever injure anyone to do her duty in the Church?' This js typical of her spirit." GUNNISON STAKE (UTAH), CENTERFIELD WARD WOOL CARDING ACTIVITY Front row, left to right: Amanda Fielsted, Christena Jensen; Mary Rosenberg, second counselor; Hannah Anderson, Mary Christensen. Standing, left to right: Alvira Hansen, first counselor; Verl Goates, president; Mearl Christensen, Jean Jensen, Naomia Jensen. Gunnison Stake (Utah) RLENE L. HENRIE, president Gunnison Stake Relief Society, reports a revival of pioneer thrift in the activities of her stake: "The sisters are keeping an old art alive and this has proved very helpful during these many months of shortages. They not only carded all the wool for their welfare assignments, but have helped many families with their bedding problems. They have made many articles of clothing from used material in an effort to stretch the clothing budget." 348 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1946 GUNNISON STAKE (UTAH), HAMILTON WARD RELIEF SOCIETY WORKERS EXHIBITING CLOTHING Front row, left to right: Othella Sorenson, president; Deon Peterson, Henrietta Frandsen, Emily Knighton.. Back row, standing, left to right: Erma Pickett, second counselor; Lena Madsen, Stena Hendrickson, Lavern Pickett, Bertha Olsen, Sister King, a visitor, Maudie Clements, Minnie Taylor, Ruth Westlund. YELLOWSTONE STAKE, KILGORE BRANCH (IDAHO) MOTHERS AND DAUGHTERS Photograph taken at the home of Sister Hedwig Hirschi. Sixty-four mothers and daughters were present. NOTES FROM THE FIELD worn by Sister Dorothea Barnsen, Standing, extreme left, was worm at President Lincoln's inaugural ball. 350 Oahu Stake (Hawaii) Waikiki Ward FROM Oahu Stake, under the presidency of Sister Mary A. Tyau, a ward Relief Society anniversary celebration is reported by Sister Inez T. Waldron, former Waikiki Ward Relief Society president: "On July 4, 1945, it was ten years since the organization of the Waikiki Ward Relief Society by President Heber J. Grant and First Counselor J. Reuben Clark, which Photograph by EF. L. Waldron RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1946 event took place with the organization of the Oahu Stake, June 30, 1935. To celebrate the occasion, the sisters met in their lovely quarters in the Oahu Stake Tabernacle for a social and dinner. Each of the sisters wore a fresh Hawaiian flower lei made from some of Hawaii's many fragrant flowers. After dinner, special sewing projects for the armed services were continued, an activity to which this organization has contributed much since the outbreak of war in the Pacific." OAHU STAKE (HAWAII), WAIKIKI WARD RELIEF SOCIETY CELEBRATES ITS TENTH ANNIVERSARY Seated, left to nght: Mary Dowse, Minerva Tarlton, Inez Waldron; Hattie Woolley, former president; Alice Reirson, first counselor; and Virginia Neiman. Standing, left to might: Mabel Lunt, Zola McGhie, Sister Hennig, President Geneva Musser, Mary Ann Boisse, Hannah Kindberg, Adelaide Fernandez, Rhea Woolley, Irene Brain, Irene Cannon, Elma Moody, Fern Clissol, Miriam Knapp, and Thora Chapman. Franklin Stake (Idaho) LICE S. MERRILL, former president Franklin Stake Relief Society, reports an unusually effective program held in connection with the stake priesthood meeting: "Inasmuch as the March stake priesthood meeting came on the NOTES FROM THE FIELD day following our anniversary, the Franklin Stake presidency asked our board to supervise the assembly program. Vaughn Larsen, a high councilman, sang "Face to Face," accompanied by Vera K. Cole of Fairview Ward. Talks were given by Bertha Woodward, counselor in the Franklin Ward, on the organization of the Relief Society, and by Mildred Anderson of the Preston Second Ward on the contributions which the Relief Society offers to the women of today. Sister Anderson closed her remarks with a very _ beautiful original poem, the last lines of which are: Relief Society! All hail to thee! Thy praise we sing this day; May your banner of love and service Be the guide that lights our way. "At the close of the program each ward officer was presented with a corsage by the stake board members and departmental work was carried out by the stake officers." ' East Jordan Stake (Utah) Midvale Second Ward FROM East Jordan Stake, where Vella Clarke Jones is president of the Relief Society, the activities of the visiting teachers have been particularly outstanding. In Midvale Second Ward, Emma Hardcastle Jenkins, ninety-two years old, the oldest person in Midvale, still goes around her block with her daughter Emma who is seventy years old. Mrs. Jenkins was married May 10, 1860, the day of the driving of the Golden Spike when the Union Pacific Railroad was completed to Ogden, Utah. Ten of her sixteen children 351 ee _-. EMMA HARDCASTLE JENKINS East Jordan Stake, Midvale Second Ward are living. She has_ thirty-seven grandchildren and over fifty greatgrandchildren. Weiser Stake (Idaho) McCall Ward FROM Weiser Stake, where Sister Erma B. Chadwick is president of the Relief Society, a report of the ambitious workers in McCall Ward comes from the Secretary Marjorie Willis: "The McCall Relief Society was organized December 18, 1943, with five women who later became officers and active members. The sisters have been willing workers and always co-operative, each desirous to work for the Society and not for herself. Last August we had two cooked food sales from which we netted twenty-eight dollars. We also have completed one quilt. 352 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1946 WEISER STAKE (IDAHO), McCALL WARD RELIEF SOCIETY OFFICERS AND MEMBERS Left to right: President Helen H. Schroeder; First Counselor Velma Lappin; Secretary-Treasurer Marjorie Willis; Second Counselor Rose M. Burdett; and Sister Lois Stephenson, a member. "During bad weather the visiting teachers have found it easier to go on horseback because in this way they can cover mote territory in less time. Sister Burdett has most generously offered her home for the use of our meetings. It was in her home that the Society was organized. Last month we received a visit from a stake board member and honored her with a luncheon at_ Sister Burdett's home." Bannock Stake (Idaho) LIZA B. CHRISTIANSEN, president Bannock Stake Relief Society, submits, as part of a very interesting report of the welldirected activities in her stake, some helpful suggestions regarding The Relief Society Magazine which were compiled by Ida Sorenson, stake magazine agent: "In behalf of the stake board, I earnestly urge you to read and study the Magazine, thereby receiving the benefits the General Board intended you should. Come to class well prepared and able to take part in the © discussion. Read the wonderful stories published in each Magazine. Let us read and study that we may become more enlightened and better qualified to carry on our work. Presidents, why not have a quiz in your meetings for a few minutes about the contents of each new Magazine the week after it arrives? See if this doesn't get your members interested in reading it" Uintah Stake (Utah) Vernal Third Ward ROM Uintah Stake, under the presidency of Mae T. Johnson, an unusual accomplishment in securing Magazine subscriptions has been reported. Vernal Third Ward has achieved 122 per cent subscriptions for the 1945 quota. This NOTES FROM THE FIELD high percentage was secured largely through the efforts of Sister Alice Billings, ward Magazine Tepresentative, who is over eighty years old. Sarah H. Richardson, stake Magazine Tepresentative, sends the following note regarding Sister Billings: "Sister Billings was born in Provo, Utah, December 25, 1865, a daughter of Evert Orser Mecham. She mained Alfred N. Billings, October 1 5, 1889. They made their home in Jensen, Utah. Eight children were born to them, six of whom are living and actively engaged in Church work. Sister Billings has been a widow for twenty years. She joined the Relief Society at the age of eighteen and served in several capacities in various wards until 1923, when she was made president of the Glines Ward Relief Society. She served in this office for six years, until she completely Jost her hearing, At Present she is a ALICE BILLINGS Uintah Stake, Vernal Third Ward Tesentative in the Vernal Third Ward. She is very alert mentally and keen at al] times, a lovable little visiting teacher and Magazine Tepold lady, four feet eight inches tall," ee RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE May Weight Johnson What scroll of beauty and mosaic word Lies within, waiting to be heard. What glowing Surge caused a writer's heart to move The shuttle of thought through warp and gtoove, Unfolding a woven field of printed thread Whose legacy of culture is before us spread; Creative wisdom and intellect imbued, Social service advanced and renewed; Spiritual guidance with faith convene, Lighted by hope and love serene, Wounded not by its own assurance, The typed facsimile claims endurance. Comments from Magazine Readers With this belated renewal subscription, I must write a few words of appreciation for my Relief Society Magazines, and for the women of goodness, talent, intelligence and inspiration who lead and have led the women of the Church. The contents of the Magazine are so varied and far-reaching. It always offers intelligent and inspirational reading especially in times of illness or when one needs comfort, strength or courage. —Glendale, Calif. I am a faithful reader of your Magazine and I do enjoy it immensely. You are doing a fine job and I personally want to thank you for such a fine magazine. —Ogden, Utah I appreciate your Magazine very much. I think it is wonderful and hope to convert more people to my idea. Your 8 1/3 cents a month is a very small price to pay for such a fine women's magazine. —Moscow, Idaho I have been a subscriber of your wonderful little Magazine for years, the best little book that comes into a home with four teen-age children who always read it before I ever get a chance. Just wouldn't be without it.—Payson, Utah I have always enjoyed reading the Magazine for it is very uplifting and a character builder for any individual. The sisters should make an effort to live up to the many teachings that are written in the book.—Wailuku, Maui, T. H. For about thirty-five years I have been an appreciative silent reader. When I lived on a homestead many years ago, the Magazine was such a welcome visitor, as it still is. Many otherwise long, lonely hours slipped by while I was absorbed in some cheery story or interesting lesson outline. I was really grateful for the diversion the Magazine afforded me. I do not want to miss any of the Magazines. They are a great help and an inspiration to me both spiritually and temporally. I am proud to say I have sent in subscriptions for fourteen out of the sixteen families in my visiting district. —West Los Angeles, Calif. Please renew my subscription so that I may receive the next issue. I teach theology and I like to prepare ahead of time. I feel deeply appreciative for such a magazine in my home. The editorials alone are worth its price——Monrovia, Calif. My Januaty issue of The Relief Society Magazine came today, and I wish I had words to express to you the appreciation I feel for this very fine publication. As I turned the pages and read each succeeding article, I felt what a wealth of material and spiritual uplift you have passed on to Relief Society workers. Your selection of material this month seems especially entiching to my spirit, and for that, and the fine work you are doing, I want to say, "Thank You."—Salt Lake City I love the Magazine and enjoy reading every word within its cover. —Gunlock, Utah I enjoy The Relief Society Magazine so much I always have it handy on a table or chair ready to read any time I get a few minutes——San Bruno, Calif. I like your Magazine. It is filling its niche with distinction —Los Angeles, Calif. - I value the Magazine as my most important reading and study material. —Provo, Utah We received The Relief Society Magazine yesterday and have read it almost through and enjoyed it thoroughly. The stories were fine and we had a good laugh.—Graham, Washington Page 355 356 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1946 Comments from Magazine Writers I have appreciated your pertinent comments regarding my poems. I am especially happy that you are using this poem. It was written for a dear friend who recently lost the son mentioned, in France. —Salt Lake City Enclosed you will find the article you asked me to write for The Relief Society Magazine. I congratulate you on the excellence of your Magazine. —Independence, Mo. Please accept my heartfelt appreciation and thanks for the acceptance of my poem. My daughter and three daughters-in-law who reside in California, Idaho, and Maryland, and to whom I have for several years past presented a year's subscription to the Magazine, will be very happy to find this poem as frontispiece. —Logan, Utah I write to thank you for your interest in my story which was published recently in The Relief Society Magazine. It was a real thrill of satisfaction for me to read it in print. Taking it all in all, it is a source of sound encouragement for me to try again. —Ogden, Utah I was most pleased to learn from your letter that the article was so acceptable to you and the other sisters concerned. I thank you also for your thoughtfulness in mailing me a complimentary copy of your wonderful Magazine. I have long been a careful reader of The Relief Society Magazine and have found it to be a source of great inspiration and help to me, and I congratulate you on the quality of the material and the splendid arrangement of the same that is found in each issue. One could almost say the Magazine never "faileth."—Logan, Utah The Relief Society Magazine certainly has always been most helpful to Utah writers, and I always feel honored to have anything of mine published in the Magazine.-—Ogden, Utah President Louise Y. Robison (Continued from page 297) Then said Sister Robison: "I wonder if there is anyone here who does not need the human touch. I wonder if there is a woman in the Church who, through the Relief Society, has not the opportunity of watching the one hour with those who are bearing heavy burdens. Sisters, you have been given that privilege, you can comfort and _ bless souls." E know she will enter on her new work "over there" with her head high, with eyes sparkling, with the enthusiastic zeal which characterized her work here, and with the same sweet humility which kept her always close to her Father in heaven. "Faith, hope and love, but the greatest of these is love." Sister Robison has great faith, a simple, absolute faith. She knows that God lives. She knows the gospel is true. I quote her again: "T believe firmly that the Gospel of Jesus Christ, a testimony that God lives, is the anchor that holds us and makes us feel secure." That was the message she always wished the Board Members to take to the stakes. "But God has spoken," she would say. "Let us make the women feel that God has spoken and that it behooves all to listen when Jehovah speaks." Great faith she had and hope and confidence. Love, the greatest of all gifts, she had in a superlative LOUISE Y. ROBISON degree. The great love she gave came back to her. One hears on every side, "Sister Robison will go down in history as the most beloved woman in the Church." She loved her family with a tender love. To hear her but speak their names was a joy, she put so much of pride and love into it. She loved her friends and how loyal she was _ to them. She loved children. That any child should go through life handicapped for lack of medical or dental care or proper food, was to her intolerable. "Don't let a child suffer," she would plead. "If you haven't the money in your ward or stake, let me know and somehow I will find it." She loved people. At a party given by her Board Members on her birthday a year ago, Sister Nellie Parker paid her this beautiful tribute: One of the outstanding strengths of Sister Robison's leadership is her ability to put the arms of her love around even the most timid and inexperienced women and give them confidence in themselves and create within them a zealousness for the cause. She is able to draw out their best abilities and win their love and cooperation... She is enshrined in the hearts of those women who served her from Canada to Mexico, from Hawaii to Europe. She loved the gospel. Deeply concerned as she was that no one should suffer for want of the material necessities of life, she also had that most precious of all gifts, the understanding heart, the ability to sense the spiritual needs of those who came to her discouraged, in sorrow,-in doubt, or with faith faltering. And, coupled with this rare gift of seeing, she had the gift of giving that which was needed. I 357 have seen women come to her office, crushed, despondent, and I have seen them leave with the light of hope and faith rekindled. How much this gift is needed today. If every woman in the Church could radiate spirituality as did Sister Robison, what a light we would be to the world. She loved her work in the Church. To her it was never a duty to be performed, but a glorious, joyous opportunity which she welcomed. Can you not hear her say, "Welcome the task that takes you beyond yourself?" In the early days of the Church when our Heavenly Father was "taising up a people who would serve him in righteousness" — a people who would be faithful enough and strong enough to carry on his work in these last days, he told them the qualifications needed for such a people. How often he emphasized, "Serve with an eye single to the glory of God." No one who thinks of honor to self is wholly devoted to a cause. But when one loses self in devotion to a great cause, that is one of the forms of superlative greatness; in fact, there can be no true greatness without it. "He who loses his life shall find it." This greatest of all tributes we pay to Sister Robison. She had the greatest of all gifts— love. She truly served with an eye single to the glory of God. To her family I wish to say, speaking for the women of the Church, that we love her. Her sweet influence will live on in our hearts forever. Our prayer is that we may so live, so carry on, that again some day she will be our leader. Y Work Meeti =, — as <f 2S Sl Grosgrain Ribbon Handbag 1. MATERIAL REQUIRED: 9 yards grosgrain ribbon 14 inches wide, 2. CUTTING: 1/3 yard lining, sheet wadding. Suggested materials—Taffeta, crepe, rayon satin. (A) Cut sixteen 9% inch lengths of ribbon. (B) Cut two 30 inch lengths of ribbon. (C) Cut remainder of ribbon into 4 equal lengths, approximately 28 inches each. 3. SEWING: Stitch 8 of the ribbons (A) together, as near the selvage as possible, (scant 1/8 inch seam). Basting is unnecessary. Stitch the remaining 8 ribbons (A) together (to make the two sides of the bag). Stitch together nbbons (B) for ends and bottom (Figure 1). Baste (B) to the two (A) stitchings just inside the selvage, allowing 1/4 inch seam at the bottom of each (A). Leave an opening 1% inches wide, 1 inch from the top of the bag for insertion of the handles (4 openings). Stitch. If (B) is too long, trim off even with top of bag (Figure 2). Turn wrong side' out and fit a piece of the lining to the bottom of the bag. Stitch along the sides, with the raw edges of lining material exposed, following seams made when sewing (A) to (B), leaving ends open. Slip in cardboard to fit (Figure 3). Measure around the top of bag (should be about 26") and depth (should be 94") and cut lining to fit (one piece, about 26' by 914'') allowing 14 inch seam at side, 114 inch seam at bottom and % inch seam at top. Stitch side seam. Baste lining to top of bag and stitch. Sheet wadding should measure the same as lining without the seam allowance. Baste in between the bag and the lining. Fold under seam allowance of lining and stitch by hand to the bottom of the bag, catching in the raw edges of the lining in the bottom. The bag should be wrong side out all through this procedure. While still so, stitch by hand through lining and sheet wadding to each inside seam of (A) and (B) % inch from top of bag and again 214 inches from the top so there will be a 2 inch space for the handles to lace through. Page 358 Tum bag nght side out. Stitch 2 pieces of (C) together close to selvages, thereby making one ribbon double thickness, (for handles). Lace through opening between sheet wadding and grosgrain completely around bag and stitch ends together. Stitch the remaining 2 pieces (C) together and lace through from the opposite side. Fasten the sewed ends of handles inside the openings at (D) and (E) (Figure 6). Figure 1 =. "* ane == ( 4 openings > Al Lining Figure 4 ———| - B = Double thickness Figure 5 Figure 2 r E ODO OOOe tO Cebeeraeeegecor arse CS a Insert —_ here frerc tress reo-. = Pocosecacoctccseoesescassasebass Inside of bag Figure 3 U Finished bag Figure 7 He WORK MEETING a SoS 359 toe tlyy MEADOW LARK Roberta Bates A meadow lark sits at my gate and sings, Melody pouring from his swollen throat, Begging for alms. What alms could I bring? A ransom of kings would not repay a note. In his black necktie and his gold-flecked coat, His vanity thrilling with each vain word, He distills the air with melodious rote, "Meadow lark, meadow lark, pretty bird!" He BIBLE FOR A-BOY Every boy should have one. And if it bears the National trademark, it will serve him well—for many years to come. PsP] BLES AT YOUR -BOOKSTORE National si 1863 SINCE Page 360 Mormon Handicraft Gift Shop Has for Your Selection Beautiful and Practical Gifts for MOTHER'S DAY GRADUATION WEDDINGS TROUSSEAUX also Exquisite linfants' Wear Quilts and Shawls 21 West South Temple Salt Lake City 1 Pann nn ns ne nk eke te 8S te 28 8 Doma DOM ODM OC DOC DOC OO Brigham Young University SUMMER QUARTER First Term: June 10—July 19 Second Term: July 22—August 23 Eighth Annual Music Festival Band and Orchestra Clinic Distinguished Visiting Teachers Outstanding Resident Faculty A Broad Offering in All Departments Lectures—Concerts—Recreation Write for your Summer School Catalogue Brigham Young University Provo, Utah 2 C0 GS SS SSS S00 M: U: S'I-C SPECIALLY SUITABLE FOR RELIEF SOCIETY I LOVE A LITTLE COTTAGE (O'Hara) FLAG WITHOUT A STAIN —— —_—— 15 BLESS THIS "HOUSE - ee |) GOD IS LOVE (Shelley) _ 4 ALICE BLUE GOWN (Tierney) =. PEACE I LEAVE WITH Vea (Roberts) -__......._-. _....--- 0 Above numbers in octavo. Less 10% discount plus postage. We specialize in L. D. S. Church music. Also carry large stock for schools and home use. Dealers in Steinway and Lester pianos, band and orchestra instruments, talking machines. Records and musicians' supplies. DAYNES MUSIC CO. We solicit your patronage 57 So. Main St. Salt Lake City 1 44 East South Temple Have ready at hand a complete guide to thousands of passages in the Doctrine and Covenants— An Invaluable Aid to Study, Speaking and Writing CONCORDANCE TO THE DOCTRINE and COVENANTS COMPILED BY JOHN V. BLUTH of the Church Historian's Office 500 pages, alphabetically arranged for easy, quick reference $3" DESERET BOOK COMPANY Book Center of the Intermountain West P, O. Box 958 Salt Lake City 10 When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine U. S. POSTAGE 2¢ Paid SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH PERMIT No. 690 "The beginning of a Beneficial Income" The surest way to enjoy financial independence when you grow old is to invest in life insurance while you are young. HOME OFFICE—BENEFICIAL LIFE BUILDING SALT LAKE City 1, UTAH GEORGE ALBERT SMITH, PRESIDENT [ei SOCIETY MAGAZINB THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Monthly publication of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints RELIEF SOCIETY GENERAL BOARD Belle S. Spafford - - - - - - President Marianne C. Sharp - - - - - First Counselor Gertrude R. Garff - - - - - Second Counselor Margaret C. Pickering - - - - - Secretary-Treasurer Achsa E. Paxman Edith S. Elliott. Leone G. Layton Leone O. Jacobs Mary G. Judd Priscilla L. Evans Blanche B. Stoddard Velma N. Simonsen Luella N. Adams Florence 1 Madsen Evon W. Peterson Isabel B. Cdllister Anna B. Hart Ann P. Nibley RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Editor - - - - - - - - - - Marianne C. Sharp Editorial Secretary < - - - - - = S Vesta P. Crawford General Manager - - - - - - - - - Belle S. Spafford Vol. 33 JUNE 1946 No. 6 Contents SPECIAL FEATURES Fasting.......--...0--csc--ccceececeseeeee Priscilla L. Evans 363 Isabe! Barton Callister Called " General Board occ cence eee eee eectLillie C. Adams 368 Contest Announcements—1946 coc 370 The Settlement of Sanpete Valley—Part i.. Leda Thompson Jensen 373 OT eM Cfo) 0b 0 Ce (:"Marjorie M. Hamrick 387 Choosing Roses for the Home Garden. Hazel D. Moyle 388 The 116th Annual General Conference Ramona W. Cannon 393 The Bennetts' Bookkeeping System. Alice Whitson Norton 400 Only Huwmeaan'.....-.-2ssscss essa an sca cee pene ces erase pettercenenssenenasssosaueeaacnessesorssesealMarguerite J. Griffin 407 The Price a ee eoT. A Hunt 408 Faith Is a Hesitiesa"Gimior 3 scececsasenees snseseeusnesececcenscenecesneateesenerucettttttons nesesseces TEChristie Lund Coles 41% GENERAL FEATURES SEI 52 D(erottS /:¥ ofc) Appear NE rrr A rr EE nce sesveasannslotestasouseseeeeer eee eecaaeeeas 396 Woman's Sphere L seceesceeoseeenessteeneteeaeesieneeeeeneeseteienneeeteeeeeee Ramona W. Cannon 397 ' Ed'torial: 'Enlarge Your Souls' —— — In Memoriam: Alice Robinson ee Notes From the Field: General Activities and Special Programs................. A_iGeneral Secretary-Treasurer, Margaret C. Pickering 417 Marianne C. Sharp 393 399 Work Meeting: Mash-Sack Magic 22............ Ceeecccececeececceceescceceenseceseeessceeeseeees 430 POETRY For the Coming Night--Frontisniace em a Grace Sayre 361 Jewel Box.. A veecceueteseseettstetutseite sunsets J@ssie Miller Robinson 369 My Father...: cioueJennie Pyper Johnson 395 Sanctuary........ Woreeerel Alice Morrey Bailey 387 Peace in a Garden I errr receerer er EECelia A. Van Cott 395 Summer Song...............; _..... Margery S. Stewart 401 The Origin of Song 7.. Katherine Fernelius Larsen 407 Class Reunion........... Uuu Olive M. Nicholes 416 Little Quazils Take co Worle ooo ce ececceeeensenesescesesenssesersneecoeesnssesesnessesnsnsnsecansenenseeeanessLydia Hall 431 Mothers of This Day. —— — & Gene Romolo 43:2 PUBLISHED MONTHLY BY THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY Editorial and Business Offices: 28 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City 1, Utah, Phone 3-2741. Ex. 243. Subscription Price: $1.00 a year; foreign, $1.00 a year; payable in advance. Single copy, 10c. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving both old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts. MAGAZINE CIRCULATION, 175,400 Women Poets in Review—Part [ivo.. N..... Ee-c-ccec-ceceeee ce ceeeceeeeeceeeeeeecnsnestecensueees ceeesesee A Compliment for Mom 00. N. N....--cecccecccececeeececccceee sence sneeeescsesesensesneseeenseens MUP" POD! Oie ssc cc... Sosceen sce eeacsttesecccienenstedel--esecesencascecceneessecervscouecvesvcceurevecsvvrvesnovcenensstiee.. Anna Boss Hart 378 Olive W. Burt 382 Dott J. Sartori 367 THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE FOR THE COMING NIGHT Grace Sayre Here in the shadow of the hill, I watch a lone star, white and still, On the cool bosom of the lake. _ I hear the whispering winds that shake A willow's lace above its breast... The pool is broken from its rest. The star is scattered into quills That tremble with the pool's small thrills. The voice of water singing low, The cool, sweet winds that come and go, All these—the pictured pool, the lace Of. Willows—lend enchanted grace; Serenest peace is on the land, The star, pool-bound, puts forth a hand And with slim fingers, shapes the light— A taper for the coming night. The Cover: "The Peace Rose" from a photograph by W. Ray Hastings VOL. 33, NO. 6 JUNE 1946 : 5 ity la Bietocreph "by Geeee O. Danie: MEMORY GROVE IN SUMMER, SALT LAKE CITY Fasting Priscilla L. Evans Member, Relief Society General Board total abstinence from food and drink for a prescribed period, or it may mean only a certain restraint in respect to the partaking of food. Fasting is a very old practice, perhaps as old as recorded history. It seems to have developed out of the desire for proper preparation for communion with divinity; hence, its universal occurrence in some form or other in all religions. By curbing the appetites and the passions, fasting becomes a means of moral discipline and induces extraordinary receptivity to spiritual impressions. In the words of an ancient writer (Chrysostom), "it makes the soul brighter and provides it with wings to mount and soar." In ancient Israel, fasting was, in the earlier times, spontaneous—not regulated by law. The purpose seems to have been to arouse Jehovah's pity (2 Sam. 12: 22); to avert national calamity (1 Sam. 31: 13)$ an expression of grief (2 Sam. 1: 12); or to render a man fit for special revelation or communication with God (Ex. 34: 28). When Moses received from God the Ten Commandments, he said: \ "FAST" may mean either a When I was gone up into the mount to receive the tables of stone, even the tables of the covenant which the Lord made with you, then I abode in the mount forty days and forty nights, I neither did eat bread nor drink water: And the Lord delivered unto me two tables of stone written with the finger of God (Deut. 9:9). Daniel, before his communion with God, and the visions which he experienced, fasted: I ate no pleasant bread, neither came flesh nor wine in my mouth, neither did I anoint myself at all, till three whole weeks were fulfilled.... And I Daniel alone saw the vision; for the men that were with me saw not the vision.... Then said he unto me, Fear not, Daniel: for from the first day that thou didst set thine heart to understand, and to chasten thyself before thy God, thy words were heard... (Dan. 10: 3, 7, 12). Elijah's revelation, too, came to him after forty days and forty nights of fasting: And the angel of the Lord came again the second time, and touched him, and said, Arise and eat; because the journey is too great for thee. And he arose, and did eat and drink, and went in the strength of that meat forty days and forty nights unto Horeb the mount of God. And he came thither unto a cave, and lodged there; and behold, the word of the Lord came to him... (1 Kings 19: 7-9): The misfortunes that in later times befell the Jewish people brought about the establishment of many fast days. Some are days of penance and humiliation, but many are days of exhilaration and joy— festival. Days. And, too, fasting is prescribed on certain memorial days. An orthodox Jew fasts on his birthday after reaching the age of thirteen, and on the birthday of his Page 363 364 first-born son until the latter reaches the age of thirteen, both in commemoration of the sparing of the first-born of the Israelites in Egypt. The anniversary of the death of parents is also observed by fasting. Fasting with the Jews always means entire abstinence, and lasts from daybreak until "the appearance of the first three stars," excepting only on the Day of Atonement, when the fast begins with sunset of the preceding day. Children, pregnant women, and the sick are exempted from the observance of the fast. The Jewish Passover, combining the fast and its penance with the feast and its exhilaration and joyousness, is one of the greatest of all religious celebrations. It epitomizes the religion and aspirations of a great people, and has been celebrated with great faith and with earnestness for more than thirty centuries. The Passover is an inspiting festival, for it is filled with hope, and the ceremonies attendant upon its celebration are dramatic, depicting in action, by means of symbols, both the tribulations and the gladness of the Exodus. Since all, even the very poor, must share in the blessings of the feast, itis obligatory upon every Jew who can afford it, to contribute money to a fund out of which matzoh (unleavened bread) and other Passover necessities are provided for the poor and needy. This fund is known as Mo'ot Hittim (wheat money). The matzoh is made of dough that has not been fermented. The Israelites were commanded (Ex. 12: 14-15): And this day shall be unto you for a memorial; and ye shall keep it a feast to the Lord throughout your generations; RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE 1946 ye shall keep it a feast by an ordinance for ever. Seven days shall ye eat unleavened bread... For whosoever eateth leavened bread from the first day until the seventh day, that soul shall be cut off from Israel. This deprivation is, of course, symbolic of the circumstances of the flight of the children of Israel to the Promised Land: And the Egyptians were urgent upon the people, that they might send them out of the land in haste... And the people took their dough before it was leavened, their kneadingtroughs being bound up in their clothes upon their shoulders (Ex. 12: 33-34). FARLY in his ministry, our Lord and Savior set the pattern and molded the ideas of Christianity in the matter of the fast, and this has been followed, in its simplicity, by the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints from its beginning. Although he himself fasted for forty days and forty nights before beginning his ministry (Matt. 4: 2), during his lifetime Jesus seldom referred to fasting. He left no regulations for the fast. He made it clear that his followers were expected to fast, described an acceptable fast, and left it to the Church to make fules for carrying out his teachings. In reply to the question, "Why do the disciples of John fast often.. And thine eat and drink?" he answered: "Can ye make the children of the bride-chamber fast, while the bridegroom is with them? But the days will come, when the bridegroom shall be taken away from them, and then shall they fast in those days." Our Church has interpreted this to be a direct exhortation to fast when the Savior FASTING was no longer with his people in the flesh. In the Sermon on the Mount (Matt. 6: 16-18), the Savior condemns all ostentatious fasting and, at least by inference, all public display of contrition or humiliation. He said: Moreover, when ye fast, be not, as the hypocrites, of a sad countenance: for they disfigure their faces, that they may appear unto men to fast.... But thou, when thou fastest, anoint thine head, and wash thy face; That thou appear not unto men to fast, but unto thy Father which is in secret, and thy Father, which seeth in secret, shall reward thee openly. In the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, a member learns in early childhood that fasting is a matter personal to each individual— a privilege with a blessing promised. He learns, too, that among the early revelations in this dispensation, the Lord revealed his will, even by way of commandment, in this manner: "Also, I give unto you a commandment, that ye shall continue in prayer and fasting from this time forth" (Doc. And Cov., Sec. 88:76). And from that time to the present day fasting with prayer has been a regular observance within the Church. The service which attends this day of fasting and prayer is unostentatious and simple as the Savior directed that it should be. In June 1833, the Lord, in a revelation given through the Prophet Joseph, commanded the saints to "build a house," and directed that the inner court "be dedicated unto me for your sacrament offerings, and for your preaching, and your fasting and your praying..." (Doc. And Cov., Sec. 95). The saints obeyed 365 this commandment, and the Kirtland Temple, the first temple built by special command of the Most High in this dispensation, was erected. We read that the temple was occupied by crowded assemblies on the first Thursday in each month, "that day being observed strictly by the Latter-day Saints, as a day of fasting and prayer." These meetings were called "fast meetings" and it is recorded that they were "hallowed and interesting beyond the power of language to describe." Eliza R. Snow thus wrote of these fast meetings: I have here seen the lame man, on being administered to, throw aside his crutches and walk home perfectly healed; and not only were the lame made to walk but the blind to see, the deaf to hear, the dumb to speak, and evil spirits to depart. On fast days, Father Smith's constant practice was to repair to the temple very early, and offer up his prayers before sunrise, and there await the coming of the people; and so strictly disciplined himself in the observance of the fast as not even to wet his lips with water until after the dismissal of the meeting at 4 P. M. (Andrew Jenson, Historical Record, pp. 74-80). Others of the early saints have testified to the faith-promoting experiences of the Thursday fast meetings in Kirtland. Zina D. H. Young and her brother, O. B. Huntington, in their youth attended these meetings. They have left vivid descriptions of these experiences. Zina D. H. Young, who became the third General President of the Relief Society, was fourteen years old when she came with her father's family to Kirtland. Late in her life, indeed when very aged, Zina spent several days at her brother's home in Springville, Utah, and they relived the fast meetings held in Kirt- 366 land. It is interesting to learn from their narrative that all labor was laid aside on Thursday just as on Sunday. The temple was always well filled, and after the opening exercises, Joseph Smith Sr., the father of the Prophet, would cause the curtains or "veils" (as the Lord had called them in the commandment) to be let down, thus to divide the room into two, three, or four spaces, so as to allow a number of persons to bear testimony simultaneously. All were given the opportunity to speak in tongues, sing in tongues, pray or prophesy, as the spirit might lead them. Many offered a prayer instead of speaking, and when doing so, they knelt, and sometimes all the congregation would kneel with them. Brother Huntington says: "Fast days in the temple were very notable occasions and were looked forward to with a kind of hallowed anticipation." (See "Fast Days in the Kirtland Temple," by O. B. Huntington, Young Woman's Journal, VIII, page 239.) The saints continued to observe fast day on the first Thursday in each month, but on occasion special fasts were observed. Because they were in dire distress and filled with anxiety during and immediately following the Nauvoo period, they sought guidance and assistance from God in fasting and prayer. Not only did they seek the favor of the Lord in this way, but they also gave their expressions of gratitude for favors received. The Prophet Joseph wrote in his diary on Tuesday, January 17, 1843: This being the time appointed by the Twelve as a day of humiliation, fasting, praise and prayer, and thanksgiving before the great Elohim, I attended a public RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE 1946 meeting in my own house, which was crowded to overflowing. Many other meetings were held in various parts of the city, which were well attended, and there was great joy among the people that I had once more been delivered from the grasp of my enemies. AFTER the saints established themselves in the Vallev. Thev continued to observe fast day on the first Thursday of the month, but on November 6, 1896, the First Presidency and the Council of the 'Twelve issued a proclamation changing the time for the observance of fast day to the first Sunday in each month. It has been so observed since that time. The saints thus assembled in prayer and fasting are privileged to make an offering for the care of the poor. We are taught that man may hope in vain for an answer to his prayers if these prayers come up before the throne of grace mingled with the cry of the suffering and the wail of the destitute and the hungry. This day of fasting and prayer, with the collection and distribution of the offerings of the day, is but one feature in the great system of active benevolence in the Church. But it is an important feature and a very old one. President Brigham Young tells us that "before tithing was paid, the poor were supported by donations" (Discourses of Brigham Young, page 262). Always a consistent advocate of the fast as a spiritualizing influence, President Joseph F. Smith, in clear and direct terms, expressed the law of the fast as today observed by the Church of Jesus Christ of Latterday Saints. He said: The law to the Latter-day Saints, as understood by the authorities of the FASTING Church, is that food and drink are not to be partaken of for twenty-four hours, 'from even to even,' and that the Saints are to refrain from all bodily gratification and indulgences. Fast day being on the Sabbath, it follows, of course, that all labor is to be abstained from. In addition, the leading and principal object of the institution of the fast among the Latterday Saints was that the poor might be provided with food and other necessities. It is, therefore, incumbent upon every Latter-day Saint to give to his bishop, on fast day, the food that he or his family would consume for that day, that it may be given to the poor for their benefit and blessing; OT in lieu of the food, that its equivalent amount, OF, if the person is wealthy, 4 liberal donation in money, be so reserved and dedicated to the poor (Gospel Doctrine, page 306, quoting from Improvement Era, VI, Dec. 19°3- See also Editorial, Deseret News, Church Section, Dec. 1, 1945:) It must be recognized, too, that in addition to the increased spiritual strength attendant upon the fast, there comes a feeling of quiet re pose and a sense of well-being which is reflected in our physical selves. The abstinence is, excepting in rare cases, beneficial to health, and those individuals who are harmed by fasting are exempted from the fast. Upon the testimony of reputable phystcians, the rest afforded the digestive organs during periods of fasting has definite curative powers. The brain 's stimulated during fasts and in- 367 tellectuality is increased. The public speaker, the singer, the pianist, and others whose success depends upon unhindered mental powers, soon learn that they can give theit best effort when the stomach is unburdened. We should keep in mind always that the Lord has instituted this law; that it is simple and pet fect and if we observe it we shall learn that it is based on reason and intelligence. No harm, but only benefit, can come to one through a strict observance of the law of the fast. The spirit in which this commandment of the Lord is obeyed: s more important than the fastings and the prayers and the offerings. Is your fasting "acceptable"? Through the Prophet Zechariah, the Lord declared the "acceptable fast": cy and compassion every man to his brother; and oppress not the widow, nor the fatherless, the stranger, nor the poor; and let none of you imagine evil against his brother in your heart" (Zech. 7: g-10). Fasting is, of course, an act of temperance, a reverential abstinence, but it can find its full perfection only in following the admonitions of the leaders of the Church regarding the fast and the use of the offerings made possible by the abstinence. Ee THE POOL Dott J. Sartori The pool forever contemplates The colored world above, And bears upon its placid breast The mountain and the grove. | Isabel Barton Callister Called to General Board Lillie C. Adams President, Emigration Stake Relief Society ~ ISABEL BARTON CALLISTER HERE are four favorable factots that tend toward the perfection of human personality. They are: a noble heritage, a° rich environment, selfeffort, and a testimony of the gospel of Jesus Christ. These four qualifications are possessed by Isabel Barton Callister. With these important prerequisites she has made daily application of them through her diligence and obedience to all the gospel principles. Prophets have said that we should foster a love for religion, culture, and refinement, and we should develop faith, Page 368 save souls, and study and teach by precept and example the gospel of Jesus Christ. Isabel has followed this plan. Her maternal grandfather, Francis Armstrong, while on his way to California seeking gold, visited in Salt Lake City for a short time. He heard the gospel of Jesus Christ and decided that this spiritual message was greater than gold—a real "Pearl of Great Price." With the help of his noble wife, Isabel Siddoway Armstrong, a handcart pioneer, he instilled in his children a desire to acquire a testimony of the gospel of Jesus Christ. Isaac Barton, the paternal grandfather, was bishop of the Nineteenth Ward for twenty years. Isabel has had a rich environment in her home life, as her mother and father were always interested in the worthwhile things of life. She was born in Salt Lake City, July 23, 1908, a daughter of Isaac R. And Sarah Armstrong Barton. Realizing that faith and works are necessary, she has pursued persistently not only her Church work but also has won distinction scholastically. She attended L. D: S. University and graduated, in 1926, as valedictorian of the class. Later, she attended the University of Utah and graduated in 1930 with an A. B. Degree, majoring in Latin. At the University, she was a member of the honorary fraternities, Phi Kap- ISABEL BARTON CALLISTER pa Phi, Beehive Club, and Mortar Board. On September 27, 1930, she married Louis H. Callister, an attorney in Salt Lake City, and a former member of the bishopric of the Eleventh Ward. They have two children, Louis Jr., eleven, and Sharee, nine. Isabel is a devoted member of the Church and has served in the Sunday School as a teacher. She has a strong testimony of the gospel and has followed the admonition of the apostle Peter:... Add to your faith virtue; and to virtue knowledge; 369 And to knowledge temperance; and to temperance patience; and to patience godliness; And to godliness brotherly kindness; and to brotherly kindness charity. For if these things be in you, and abound, they make you that ye shall neither be barren nor unfruitful in the knowledge of our Lord Jesus Crist (II Peter 1:5-8). Isabel Callister is a member of the University Ward, Emigration Stake. Her outstanding scholastic attainments, combined with her knowledge of the gospel and her devotion to the work of the Church, will make her a valuable addition to the General Board. She was appointed to her new position May 1, 1946. JEWEL BOX Jessie Miller Robinson No gems I crave—I own Larkspurs of sapphire-blue, Fuchsias dropping rubies, Poppies of amber hue. Phlox, like amethysts, Pearl-daisies on the grass, Threaded with emerald, As down the path I pass. Faust's box of precious gems Could hold no lure for me— Flowers are lovelier Than stones of luxury. Contest Announcements—1946 HE Eliza R. Snow Memorial Prize Poem Contest and the Relief Society Short Story Contest are conducted annually by the General Board of Relief Society to stimulate creative writing among Latterday Saint women and to encourage high standards of work. Latter-day Saint women who qualify under the rules of the respective contests are invited to enter their work in either or both contests. The General Board would be pleased to receive entries from the outlying stakes and missions of the Church as well as from those in and near Utah. Since the contests are entirely separate, requiring different writing skills, the winning of an award in one of the contests in no way precludes winning in the other. Eliza R. Snow Memorial Prize Poem Contest HE Eliza R. Snow Memorial Prize Poem Contest opens with this announcement and closes September 15, 1946. Three prizes will be awarded as follows: First puze 2 $20 Second prize............---- $15 Third prize.................. $10 Prize poems will be published in the January 1947 issue of The Relief Society Magazine. Prize-winning poems become the property of the Relief Society General Board and may not be published by others except upon written permission from the General Board. The General Board reserves the right to publish any of the other poems submitted, paying for them at the time of publication at the regular Magazine rates. Rules for the contest: 1. This contest is open to all Latter-day Saint women, exclusive of members of the Relief Society General Board, and employees of the Relief Society General Board. Z. Only one poem may. Be submitted by each contestant. Page 370 3- It is suggested that the subject matter of the poems be based upon the Utah Centennial theme or some other aspect of our pioneer heritage, however poems on other themes will be accepted; and the entries will be judged upon their literary merit and not upon the selection of subject matter. 4. The poem must not exceed fifty lines and should be typewritten, if - possible; where this cannot be done, it should be legibly written. Only one side of the paper is to be used. (A duplicate copy of the poem should be retained by contestant to insure against loss. ) 5. The sheet on which the poem is written is to be without signature or other identifying marks. 6. No explanatory material or picture is to accompany the poem. 7. Each poem is to be accompanied by a stamped envelope on which is written the contestant's name and address. Nom de plumes are not to be used. 8. A signed statement is to accompany the poem submitted certifying: a. That the poem (state the title) is the contestant's original work. B. That it has never been published. C. That it is not in the hands of an editor or other persons with a view to publication., d. That it will not be published nor submitted elsewhere for publication until the contest is decided.. A writer who has received the first 'oO CONTEST ANNOUNCEMENTS prize for two consecutive years must wait two years before she is again eligible to enter the contest. 10. The judges shall consist of one member of the General Board, one person from the English department of an educational institution, and one person who is a recognized writer. In case of complete disagreement among judges, all poems select- 371 ed for a place by the various judges will be submitted to a specially selected committee for final decision. 11. Entries must be postmarked not later than September 15, 1946. 12. All entries are to be addressed to Relief Society Eliza R. Snow Poem Contest, 28 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City 1, Utah. Reliof Society Short Story Contest THE Relief Society Short Story Contest for 1946 opens with this announcement and closes September 15, 1946. Three prizes will be awarded as follows: First prize................-.$35 Second prize................$25 Third prize..................$15 The three prize-winning stories will be published consecutively in the first three issues of The Relief Society Magazine for 1947. Prizewinning stories become the property of the Relief Society General Board and may not be published by others except upon written permission from the General Board. The General Board reserves the right to publish any of the other stories entered in the contest, paying for them at the time of publication at the regular Magazine rates. Rules for the contest: 1. This contest is open to Latter-day Saint women—exclusive of members of the Relief Society General Board and employees of the General Board—who have had at least one literary composition published or accepted for publication. 2. Only one story may be submitted by each contestant. 3. For the 1946 short story contest (the prize-winning stories of which will be published in 1947), it is suggested that the subject matter might deal with a Utah Centennial theme, or with a theme inspired by the historical events associated with this occasion. Other themes may be used, however, and the prize-winning stories will be selected for their literary merit, and not for the subject matter used. 4. The story must not exceed 3,000 words in length and must be typewritten. (A duplicate copy of the story should be retained by contestant to insure against loss. ) 5. The contestant's name is not to appear anywhere on the manuscript, but a stamped envelope on which is written the contestant's name and address is to be enclosed with the story. Nom de plumes are not to be used. 6. A signed statement is to accompany the story submitted certifying: a. That the author has had at least one literary composition published or accepted for publication. (This statement must give name and date of publication in which the contestant's work has appeared, or, if not yet published, evidence of acceptance for publication. ) b. That the story submitted (state the title and number of words) is the contestant's original work. C. That it has never been published, that it is not in the hands of an editor or other person with a view to publication, and that it will not be published nor submitted elsewhere for publication until the contest is decided. 372 7. No explanatory material or picture is to accompany the story. 8. A writer who has received the first ptize for two successive years must wait for two years before she is again eligible to enter the contest. G. The judges shall consist of one member of the General Board, one person from the English department of an educational institution, and one person who RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE 1946 is a recognized writer. In case of complete disagreement among judges, all stories selected for a place by the various judges will be submitted to a specially selected committee for fiftal decision. 10. Entries must be postmarked not later than September 15, 1946. 11. All entries are to be addressed to Relief Society Short Story Contest, 28 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City 1, Utah. MY FATHER Jennie Pyper Johnson For Fathers' Day, June 16 I touched his feet, his aching feet That have trodden the narrow way, And I thought of the weary steps They had taken to reach today; I kissed his hands, his toil-worn hands That have known the feel of the sod, And thought of the seeds he planted In fellowship with God. I saw his face, his careworn face, Lined deep with the mark of the years; I saw the love that lighted the way Through the smiles as well as the tears. I heard him pray in humbleness— As good men pray for their own, And I knew that on the path of life He never had walked alone; He may be listed as common clay Along the path he has trod, And yet he ever holds a place With the noblemen of God. { Photograph by Grace O. Tuttle The Settlement of Sanpete Valley Leda Thompson Jensen Former Member, Relief Society General Board PART I HE early history of Sanpete Valley is closely associated with the Ute Indians, a tribe of the Shoshone family, who claimed this rich Valley as their own before the white men came. From these Indians the names Sanpete and Sanpitch are derived. June 14, 1849, not quite two years after the first company of pioneers entered Salt Lake Valley, a delegation of Ute Indians accompanied Chief Walker to Salt Lake City to visit Brigham Young, with the request that settlers be sent to the valley of the Sanpitch River to teach the Indians to build houses and till the soil. Ps. ES 2 sie yy <: ~ yt St "HIGH COUNTRY'— ee cet x eet? '¥y P: The valley to which Chief Walker led an exploring party of four men, Joseph Horn, W. W. Phelps, Ira Willes, and D. B. Huntington, lay about a hundred miles south of Salt Lake City in the center of Utah. It was five thousand to six thousand feet above sea level, with the Wasatch Mountains to the east, the Sanpitch Mountains to the west, and the Sanpitch River flowing from north to south through the valley. The Indians treated the four men royally, and, after exploring the natural resources, they returned to report that everything was favorable for founding a colony. A company of about fifty families from Salt Pen. Pe oF THE PLATEAU EAST OF SANPETE VALLEY Page 373 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE 1946 COUNTY COURTHOUSE, MANTI, UTAH Lake City and Centerville was organized and started for Sanpete Valley. They traveled due south to Salt Creek Canyon, the pass which connects Juab with Sanpete County. They cleared roads, built bridges, and successfully passed through the Canyon. Then they moved on to the present site of Manti, Utah. November 22, 1849, the first camp was made on the banks of the creek that flowed out of the canyon to the east. Wagon boxes were used as temporary homes. In a few days it began to snow, and it snowed almost continually until the ground was covered to a 'depth of three or four feet. The winter was very severe. The settlers moved from City Creek to the south side of the hill on which the Manti Temple now stands. Some of the families lived in dugouts. Two babies, born one January night, were wrapped in a large cowhide to keep them from freezing to death. After the camp had been made in readiness for winter, a company of twelve men, under the command of Jerome Bradley, returned to Salt Lake City for supplies. On the return trip, the supply wagons were halted in Provo because of Indian trouble and, when they reached Salt Creek Canyon in January, they were unable to get through the snow. Men on snowshoes with hand-drawn sleds made their way from Manti to the snowbound wagons over drifts eight to twenty feet deep. Many trips were made until the supplies were removed. The wagons were not able to get through the Canyon and reach Manti until the last day of March 18so. The men and boys were kept busy most of the time shoveling away the snow to bare the grass for feed for the cattle. Only 113, of the 240 head of cattle brought with them, were alive the following June; and only one team of horses had THE SETTLEMENT OF SANPETE VALLEY strength enough to pull a plow. The Indians camped around the colony and devoured the dead animals to keep from starving. Then came spring, and on the evening after the first warm day, the hissing of hundreds of rattlesnakes startled the colonists. Gliding from holes in the mountain, from under the rocks and the shelter of evergreens and shrubs, they writhed and wiggled about in beds, boxes, and cupboards, They attacked the horses and cattle. With the aid of pine-knot torches, the settlers united in warfare against them. One of the brethren killed thirty in one day. Nearly five hundred were killed in one night. The camp was finally rid of the reptiles. The most remarkable thing about the whole SHEEP ON SUMMER RANGE IN SANPETE COUNTY 375 incident was the fact that not one person was bitten. With the coming of spring, the land was plowed, seeds were planted, and, soon, fresh vegetables were available. The soil Proved very productive, and ditches were dug from the creek to itigate the land. Notwithstanding his pleadings for white neighbors, Chief Walker frequently tried to stir up trouble. Had it not been for an aged, diplomatic chief, Soweitte, the inhabjtants of Manti might have been massacred that first winter. Early attempts to make settlements at Spring City, Mount Pleasant, and Ephraim, north of Manti, failed, due to the depredations of the Indians who forced the venturesome pioneers back Manti, to the fort at 376 RArDps were made upon the settlements, cattle and horses were stolen, guards were killed and scalped, herders and wood haulers were attacked. The only flour mill in the Valley, located at the mouth of Manti Canyon, was burned after the miller and guard had been slain. The drivers of four teams of oxen hauling grain to Salt Lake were killed, the sacks were cut open, and the grain scattered and wasted. These incidents could be multiplied many times if all the hostile deeds of the Indians were related. The most bitter Indian trouble in Utah was centered in Sanpete County, with the Indians carrying on their depredations as far north as Payson in Utah County, and south to Richfield in Sevier County. Walker incited his braves to constantly harass the settlers from 1852 until his death in 1855. This period of warfare was known as the Walker War. Arropine, the brother of RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE 1946 Walker, professed much love for the Latter-day Saints, and, as evidence of his friendship, deeded the entire County of Sanpete to Brigham Young for the benefit of the Church. The Indians saw their lands being taken from them. Land to an Indian is his means of livelihood, his wealth. At this time, also, the government was urging that the Indians be placed on reservations. Undoubtedly, these two factors combined, placed the Indians on the defensive and a number of incidents precipitated the worst Indian outbreak in Utah, which lasted three years (1865-1868) and was known as the Black Hawk War. The area of greatest conflict was centered in Sanpete and Sevier Counties. Small bands of Indians, twenty-five to one hundred in number, constantly harassed the settlements, taking the lives of at least seventy people, destroying thouWHEAT FIELD IN "THE GRANARY OF UTAH" THE SETTLEMENT OF SANPETE VALLEY sands of dollars worth of property, and forcing an expenditure of $1,121,037 by the Territory of Utah. The help of the militia of the Temnitory and of United States Indian agents was necessary before a treaty was concluded by General Morrow of the United States Army at Mt. Pleasant, September 7, 1872. After this, the Indians were placed on reservations provided and maintained by the Government of the United States. In August 1850, President Brigham Young visited the first settlement in Sanpete, named it Manti, after a notable Book of Mormon city, and the county, Sanpete, after the Indian tribe inhabiting the -Valley, whose chief was Sanpitch. Febtuaty 6, 1851, Manti was made a city by act of the Legislature, and, on February 3, 1852, a bill passed the Legislature creating Sanpete CounAfter the Walker War, settlements were made at suitable places in the County, the first successful attempt being made in the early spring of 1854, when Reuben W. Allred and fifteen families from Manti moved seven miles north to Pine Creek, the present site of Ephraim. Sporadic uprisings of the Indians made the building of a fort necessary, and the homes were built inside the enclosure. It was not until 1860, that the residents left the fort and erected homes on their city lots. The first two years in the history of Ephraim were days of trials and disappointments, which none but the most determined men and women could endure. The Indians were not the only source of dread and anxiety. A frost killed the first 377 crop of grain, and grasshoppers destroyed almost every other species of vegetation. The settlers—men, women, and children—fought day and night to rid the land of millions of gtasshoppers which devoured everything they could. In 1857, a bountiful harvest encouraged and heartened those hardy pioneers, and the gtanaries were filled to overflowing with wheat. It was demonstrated that the climate and soil of Sanpete County were well adapted for the growing of grain, and, so bounteous were the harvests, that Brigham Young called the County, "The Granary of Utah." Most of the agricultural lands in the County required irrigation, which led to this science being thoroughly developed by the Sanpete pioneers. In the early sixties, thousands of bushels of grain went from Sanpete across the plains to feed the immigrant trains. Sanpete became an agricultural county of small holdings in farm property. Stock and sheep raising became supplementary industries. In the Production of wool and mutton, Sanpete County at one time lead not only the counties of Utah but all the counties of the entire United States. In March of 1859, Mt. Pleasant and Spring City were resettled and new colonies were begun at Moroni and Gunnison. In August and October of the same year, the sites for Fountain Green and Fairview were located and settled. In December of 1857, Bishop John E. Reese and Chief Tabinan discovered the first coal in Utah in the Sanpitch Mountains west of the (Continued on page 407) Women Poets in Review Anna Boss Hart Member, Relief Society General Board PART II MILY Elizabeth Dickinson— how well I remember the hour at Columbia University when I heard Martha Dickinson Bianchi review the life of Emily Dickinson. Lt was a hot afternoon—studies were crowding me—but I wanted to hear the niece of Emily Dickinson review the life of her noted relative. We sat in awe as Madame Bianchi entered the room, dressed in black and wearing a huge corsage of pink roses. How different from the delicate white flower—Emily Dickinson —her subject. Emily Dickinson, our distinguished American lyrist, whose poems number some fifteen hundred in all, wrote no prose except some remarkable letters which were published after her death. Her poems, always short and full of the most elevated and ideal thoughts, achieved unexpected popularity after her death and had, strange to say, a wider circulation than those of any contemporary poet. Only two of her poems were published during her lifetime. She was called "the modern Sappho," "a hermit thrush," "a New England nun'—this poet born in Amherst, Massachusetts, in 1830. Her father, Edward Dickinson, of an old Massachusetts family, was the leading lawyer of the town, served a term in Congress as a Whig, and was treasurer of Amherst ColPage 378 lege, which his father had founded. It is said of him that once he rang a fire bell furiously so that nobody would miss seeing a sunset. Emily attended Amherst Academy, spent one year at South Hadley Female Seminary, visited Washington and Philadelphia for a few weeks while her father was in Congress, was treated for eye trouble in Boston for part of 1864 and 186s, and died at fifty-five of Bright's disease. That is the record of her outward life. It is the least important thing about her. It would be interesting to write of Emily Dickinson's home, to tell about her family and the community of Amherst. Emily Dickinson, for twenty years, never went farther than her garden gate, saw no one but her family and a few chosen friends, dressed always in white, choosing the gardenia as her favorite flower. She wrote her poems secretly on scraps of paper, rolled and tied them with a thread, and thrust them into bureau drawers. Her personality was alive. There was an infinite sweetness in her voice, which was low and tensely appreciative. Her alert curiosity was a part of life that was youth and magic. She wrote of her environment as she grew to know it, step by step, discovery by discovery, truth by truth— until time merely became eternity. To her, nothing was mean or trivial, WOMEN POETS IN REVIEW and her "fainting robin" became a "synonym of the universe." She is appreciated by the unpoetic, the busy person, the young and old, the school girl and the poet. She is quoted in sermon and in conversation. Dr. John Erskine considered "It's All I Have to Bring Today" as one of Emily Dickinson's most perfect poems: It's all I have to bring today, This, and my heart beside, This, and my heart, and all the fields, And all the meadows wide; Be sure you count, should I forget, Someone the sum could tell, This, and my heart, and all the bees Which in the clover dwell. Here is another example of an exquisite lyric: I dreaded that first robin so, But he is mastered now, And I'm accustomed to him grown, He hurts a little, though. Emily Dickinson's implicit faith is shown in this one: I never spoke with God, Nor visited in Heaven; Yet certain am I of the spot As if the chart were given. Emily Dickinson was one of the American poets of her century who treated the great lyric themes of love and faith with entire candor and sincerity. "Valor in the dark she acknowledged as her Maker's code." There are many other women poets who have made a place for themselves in the last century. Some are living and some have passed beyond, but their poetry will sing on. 379 EDNA ST. VINCENT MILLAY PNA St. Vincent Millay, one of the most brilliant lyrists, was born in Rockland, Maine, February 22, 1892. She is known for her fine imaginative powers, for her sensitiveness to beauty. There is a rare whimsical quality in her poems. Many of her poems echo a response in our souls. "God's World" and her longer poem "Renascence," one of her earliest long poems, are full of unworldly ecstasy. ""Renascence" was written when Miss Millay was nineteen and it brought her name into prominence as one to be reckoned with in the field of lyric poetry. Do you know Adelaide Crapsey, another American poet, and the originator of the "cinquain"? She did most of her work in the last three or four months of her life. She died 380 early, a victim of tuberculosis. Seriously ill for over a year, she knew that her death was only a question of time, but she faced the situation with courage, and with a grim humor. This is one of her cinquains: Triad These be Three silent things: The falling snow. Before the dawn.. Just dead... The hour. The mouth of one Anguish Keep thou Thy tearless watch All night, but when blue dawn Breathes on the silver moon, then weep! Then weep! One could not mention women's names in poetry without naming Amy Lowell who is regarded as the chief American exponent of free verse. Amy Lowell was bom in Brookline, Massachusetts, February 9, 1874, and was educated in the private schools of her native State. No biographical presentation of her would be complete without including the statement that her genealogical tree includes the name of James Russell Lowell, the poet. There have been many kinds of nature poets, but none exactly like Miss Lowell. She is the poet of that nature which is the product of landscape gardening. We can easily imagine ourselves in old secluded gardens, with fountains and statues and marble steps. "Patterns" comes to our minds, and other examples of colors, scents, and textures. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE 1946 SARA TEASDALE. ARA Teasdale is almost the direct opposite in poetry from the style of Amy Lowell. She was born in St. Louis, Missoun, in 1884, and was educated in private schools in her home city. For the first time in the history of Columbia University a prize of $500 was presented for poetry and to Sara Teasdale for her volume of Love Songs—poems of true lyric quality. Her lyrics do have subtle and beautiful word music, simplicity, and brevity. A number of her poems have been translated into French, Spanish, Danish, and other languages. It is no wonder that many of her poems have been set to music. They are pure lyrics. Spring Night The park is filled with night and fog, The veils are drawn about the world, The drowsy lights along the paths Are dim and pearled. WOMEN POETS IN REVIEW We love "Barter", which begins her Love Songs, and we remember "The Coin" and "Stars." She said about her own poems, "For me, one of the greatest joys of poetry is to know it by heart." Lizette Woodworth Reese is another American poet we must remember. Her work has an exquisite and serene distinction, a feminine tenderness we love. We must not forget poems like "A Christmas Folk Song" and her famous sonnet "Tears." -.. Make me see aright How each has back what once he stayed to weep: Homer his sight, David his little lad! And now we should mention in review a score of other poets who have found a place in the hearts of hundreds of people. Elinor Wylie has given us four books of poems, of which the last, Angels and Earthly Creatures, should especially be known. Marguerite Wilkinson, from Canada, has left her contributions and has introduced to us many new friends in New Voices. Another whose work is of exquisite technique and charming fancy is Grace Hazard Conklin, bom in New York City, and author of Afternoons of Aptil and Wilderness Songs. Angela Morgan has stimulated her readers with her fervor and optimism. We should enjoy again Forward, March! Katherine Lee Bates has won her place in the hearts of hundreds of people through her poem "America the Beautiful." Americal Americal God shed his grace on thee And crown thy good with brotherhood From sea to shining sea! 331 There is a certain quaint "otherworldliness" about the poetry of Anna Hempstead Branch, a poet from Connecticut. Her prize-winning poem was "The Road 'Twixt Heaven and Hell." Josephine Preston Peabody Marks obtained the Stratford -onAvon prize in 1910 with The Piper. One of her lyrics of love is "The House and the Road." The little Road says, Go, The little House says, Stay: And O, it's bonny here at home, But I must go away. Today, Grace Noll Crowell and a host of others express notes of poetry often echoed in the hearts of teaders. Doesn't this last stanza of "Recompense" express a satisfaction which life gives us? I never have been where the mountains stand, Majestic, aloof, apart, But nightly, the infinite, star-crowned heights Speak to my waiting heart, And mine are the winds that are mountain-born, And of seas, they are a part. And so the procession goes on and on—these women poets in review. This is but a sampling of women poets in the world of literature. Those women of the Orient, those inspired Hebrew women, have not been mentioned. How interesting it would be to pause and greet our Latter-day Saint women who poured out their souls in song through the years. Let us enjoy these women poets we have greeted. Let us delve into the greatest and most universal thoughts with the greatest of women poets. A Compliment for Mom Olive W. Burt (This story relates another episode in the lives of the adopted children, Janet and Stevie. — Ed.) ANET, seeing that baby Carol J was asleep, wheeled the pram into the yard and around the house to her favorite spot under the apple tree. She placed the pram carefully, so that the baby would be protected from the direct rays of the early summer sun, and yet could benefit by the slight breeze that stirred the branches overhead. Then she flung herself on the grass and picked up the book she had been reading. It was a fascinating book, called "Ballet Slippers," telling about the struggles of a little girl Janet's age who wished to become a dancer. Janet was absorbed in the tale, and was not conscious that her parents were in the living room until she heard her father say, "Maybe she won't want to go." Her mother's voice answered earnestly, "But she must go, Robert! That's just the point of it—she's altogether too wound up in us. She's got to learn that there are other people, other places, other things to do. It troubles me—" Janet's attention sharpened. She listened fearfully. The phrase "she must go" repeated itself over and over in her aroused mind. There was only one "she" in the house who could go. "Maybe you're right," her father said slowly. "But it's going to be hard for her—and for Stevie — and for us, too!" age 382 "IT know," her mother's voice was patient but determined. "But we've got to learn to get along without her as much as she has to learn to be away from us. Stevie, too. Janet's eleven, Robert. It won't be so many years before there'll be high school dances and excursions, girl chums, and boy friends. I'd never forgive myself if I selfishly or blindly permitted her to give all her time and affection to Stevie and Carol and us!" ' There was her father's indulgent laugh. "You're right as _ usual, sweetheart!" he said. "How much will it cost?" "Not much, Robert. I can pay for it with the money I've saved to buy me that extra summer dress. I don't really need it, you know." 'No, you can't do that, darling! We'll take it out of the education fund. After all, it is part of Janet's education, isn't it?" "But that's definitely for college! If we start dipping into it, it won't be there after while. When we need it. No, I'll. Use the dress money, please. I want to!" "But let me share it, sweetheart! After all, I've saved a little, too—" "For golf clubs, Robert!" There was silence, and Janet could almost see her father smiling and nodding. Then her mother said swiftly, "Of course, dear. Of course, you'd want to! It's settled then— Pll tell Janet today, and you back A COMPLIMENT FOR MOM me up. It may be difficult to persuade her—but she must learn that she can leave our love and come back to it—that it is a permanent thing, whether she is here or not." Janet laid her head on her arms and closed her eyes against the tears that pressed for release. So they were going to send her away, somewhere! They were going to send her away from Stevie, and baby Carol, and them! And it wasn't because she had been bad— it wasn't because they thought she wanted to go away—it was simply because she had been very good and because they knew she wanted to be with them all the time. It was strange the way things worked out. When Mr. And Mrs. Allen had adopted Janet and Stevie two years ago, the little girl's greatest anxiety had been that she or Stevie might somehow do something that would make their foster parents regret taking them. For Janet knew that they had really wanted only Stevie, and had taken her only when they found that the two could not be adopted separately, and that Janet's anxiety to get her brother a home had been making the little girl very unhappy. But as the months had passed and Janet had become conscious that she and her brother had won secure places in their foster parents' hearts, she had grown to feel so secure that she had forgotten that they might ever be separated. Then baby Carol had come, and Janet had become completely enslaved to the adorable little tyrant. And now — now—she would have to leave! For how long? Where would they send her? For awhile misery and questions blended into a suffocating torture. 383 Then Janet, going over and over the conversation she had heard, remembered something. Mommy was going to take the money she had saved for her new dress to pay for this thing. Daddy was going to put in money he had saved for golf clubs. It must mean a lot to them, then. Mommy had said, "She must learn our love will be here—that she can go away and come back to it." This was a gift of love, then. What if she didn't want it? She couldn't let them know. She remembered how Stevie had offered his sixty-seven cents to help Uncle Jim get married. Uncle Jim hadn't wanted to take Stevie's money, but he had taken it. He had made Stevie think it was important to him. That's what folks did when they loved someone. So she would have to go away, smiling and laughing and pretending to be happy, even though she was miserable and lonely and did not want to leave them at all—not even for one night. And this must be for quite a long time, if it took Mommy's and Daddy's extra money. WHEN Carol woke up and Janet took her from the pram into the house, she gave no sign that she had overheard the conversation that morning. Stevie came in, rumpled and dirty, from a romp with Spot and the new little boy down the street. Stevie had lots of friends— he never worried about leaving home. In the past two years his position had become, in his mind, absolutely unchangeable. At lunch, Mommy said brightly, "IT was reading in the paper about the Girl Scout camp, Janet. You hadn't told me about it, but it sounds lovely, doesn't it?" 384 So that was it! Janet thought. She said, "I forgot." "Miss Gleason was asking me if you didn't want to go. She says you're such a very good scout that she'd particularly like to have you." Janet wanted to say eagerly, "Oh, I'd love to go! I've been wishing I could!" but she couldn't quite make it. She said, instead, "That's what she said to me, too. But I told her I was going to take care of Carol this summer." "Yes," her mother agreed, "there is that to think of. But I believe I could get along for two weeks, if you'd care to go, Janet." Stevie said, his mouth full, "Soon as I can I'm going to be a Cub. Can I go to camp then, Mommy? Can I?" His mother smiled. "I hope so, Son," she said. "And if Janet goes she can learn a great many things you know, how to build a fire, and leather work, and about birds, and how to cook over a campfire. Somebody ought to know these things to help Daddy when we go camping." Janet managed a smile. "Tl go," she said. She couldn't bear the conversation. "Darling!" her mother said, looking at her strangely, "not if you don't want to! Not if you have to say, 'I'll go,' in that voice!" Janet gulped. Then she took hold of herself and grinned. "I want to go, really I do! I sort of wished I could!" It was all the enthusiasm she could muster. During the next few days Janet became rather adept at pretending enthusiasm for the trip. In fact, once in awhile she found herself actually thinking about it without RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE 1946 too much unhappiness, even with a fluttering interest. It would be fun to buy the things she needed — the heavy oxfords and socks, the knapsack, the toothbrush and soap holder — to mark her things, to leam to make her bedroll, if only these things had not meant leaving home! She had been to camp once before, with all the children at the Home, and she had thoroughly enjoyed it. But that was different. Stevie had been with her, then. There had been no baby sister to leave to all the unknown fortunes of two long weeks. Stevie didn't seem to realize what was impending. He was rather envious of all Janet's new things, of her being the center of interest, but he didn't actually realize that they would be separated until the very morning of her departure. Daddy and Mommy, with Stevie and the baby, drove Janet to the scout headquarters where the bus would pick her up. Janet hadn't been able to still the fluttering of excitement that made her cheeks pink under the freckles, though her feeling of loss was like a stone in her chest. The little girls and their parents were standing among bedrolls and suitcases on the lawn. Some were chattering and giggling, but others were standing, white-lipped, clinging to their mothers. Stevie stared at the group as his parents got out of the car. Then it burst upon him what this parting meant, and he grabbed Janet. "Don't go, Janet!" he begged. "Don't go and leave me! Take me!" His father looked at him and grinned. "Hey, Big Boy!" he said. A COMPLIMENT FOR MOM € little girl in the seat beside ont want to Miss Gleason led the little girl away down the bus to sit beside her, Not her very Own mother? That made it even harder! Ly, homesick, little girl, herself keep up the role, she entered into all the Sports and activities: she elped Miss Gleason with the younger girls: she was a model of the good scout Was Teally fun and she was learning a great deal, By the second day the Omesickness was gtowing faint: by the third, she had actually become shut tight so that her Pillow would not be wet in the moming, have minded all this hidden agony if only the other girls 386 them up before the children as less than the wonderful people they were —as painting a picture of her home that was ugly and false. Silently, she began to count the days till she could go home again and forget the whole ordeal. But when the last day came, Janet was sorry to leave the woods and the birds, the camp leaders, the fireside story hours, the hikes and outdoor games. Miss Gleason smiled down at Janet as she packed her things. "You look wonderful, Janet," she said. "It's been a nice two weeks, hasn't it?" Janet nodded vigorously. It really had. Then the parents began to arrive in their cars to pick up their daughters. Betty rushed to her mother, flung her arms about her and burst into tears. "Mama!" she cried, "why didn't you come before? I wrote to you—I've cried and cried—" Miss Gleason said, very quietly, to Betty's mother, "Betty is not very well adjusted, emotionally, Mrs. Gray. I'd like to talk to you about it some day, very soon." Janet, standing near by, waiting for her own parents, thought, Miss Gleason looks mad at Mrs. Gray. I wonder why. Then the Allen car came into the yard, and Stevie was running toward her, yelling. Janet flung her arms RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE 1946 about her brother. Gosh, she told herself, you mustn't cry now. It'll spoil everything. She kissed her mother and father and the baby. "She said, eagerly, "I'm all packed and ready!" pointed to her bedroll. Daddy went to get it. "How has she been, Miss Gleason?" Mommy asked. Janet hoped Miss Gleason wouldn't look mad at Mommy as she had at Mrs. Gray. But she needn't have worried. Miss Gleason's eyes were warm and her smile was friendly. "Janet's been wonderful!" she said earnestly. "She's a beautifully adjusted child. You can easily tell which children come from happy homes—which ones know they are loved—feel secure and happy. I want to congratulate you, Mrs. Allen, on your little girl!" Janet felt a warm glow of gratefulness as she looked up to see how Mommy took the compliment. There were tears in Mommy's eyes. "Thank you," she said softly, and her arm about Janet's shoulders held her a little more tightly. In the car, with baby Carol on her lap, and Stevie snuggled against her, Janet let a couple of fat tears squeeze through her eyelids, as she whispered, "Coming home is the best part of it!" Then she added, honestly, "But I had a wonderful time. May I go next year, too?" "Check Your Driving, Check Your Car,'Check Accidents!" —The Police Traffic Safety Check and SANCTUARY Alice Mortey Bailey The gardener kneels to work with simple faith, Observing laws of petal, root and spathe— So much of earth, and sun, so many seeds; He tolerates no parasites, no weeds. Beneath his hand a rug of sweet grass grows, And chapel walls of ivy, climbing rose. Soft pansies bloom like timid thoughts—in shade, And moonflowers glow at night—afraid Of too much day. The cups of tulips lift In lovely hope; bright leaves entreat the gift Of heaven, offering sacrament. These preach The truth and beauty roots and branches teach; All of earth and sea and sky are here And no dissension rifts the breeze—no fear. Upon his knees the gardener works the sod And humbly grows his little prayers to God. A ee On Courage Marjorie M. Hamrick i I could teach my children and others one thing, I believe 1 would choose courage, the kind of courage that is an integral part of faith and love —an indomitable courage that nothing could shake or move from its place. Life is never one smooth path. The more rugged the slope, the more effort the climber must make, and the more strength it gives to him. The higher one climbs, the broader the view, and the farther one can see into the distance. It is well, too, to remember that the higher the mountain, the more intense and furious the storms, but, after the storm, the rarer and finer and purer the air, and the more beautifully the sun shines. And so it is with life, the deeper the despair and the gloom, the more we appreciate the sunny places—the happy days. And so, by struggle and a continual contrast, we progress and grow ™m grace in the sight of God and man. Page 387 Choosing Roses for the Home Garden Hazel D. Moyle In the time of roses Hope thou, weary heart: Spring a balm discloses For the keenest smart. Though thy grief o'ercome thee Through the winter's gloom, Thou shall thrust it from thee When the roses bloom. —Anonymous N every age since the days of Isaiah, poets have sung of the beauty of the rose, the most loved flower of all mankind. It has been a source of inspiration in song and in story since the beginning of time. Kings and queens have paid court to its charms and have willingly bent the knee to cultivate its beauty, while it has been treasured in the gardens of the humble and poor wherever flowers have been cultivated all down the centuries. Rose lovers of today should give thanks that we are privileged to live in the greatest age of rose growing ever known to man. Not only do we enjoy roses during the month of June, the traditional rose month, but modern hybridization has extended the rose-blooming season to continue throughout the entire growing year. Until recently, roses bloomed only in June, with perhaps an occasional later bloom, but the modem rose garden produces roses during every month from May until frosts come to stop all blooming. We also have more kinds and Page 388 varieties than were ever dreamed of by rose lovers of former ages. The most distant lands have been combed by plant hunters to enrich our gardens, but by far the most important modern rose development has been the advent of the everblooming hybrid tea rose which is now so universally grown as to almost crowd other types out of our gardens. We must give credit for this new type of rose (which has made rose growing so popular in almost every back-yard garden) to a famous woman of history, none other than the Empress Josephine, wife of Napoleon the Conquerer. Josephine occupied, perhaps, the highest place ever graced by any woman when she reigned for a short time as empress of a good part of the world. But this exalted position did not prevent her from being an ardent and practical gardener and botanist. The rose was her favorite flower and it was her greatest joy to steal away from the demanding formality of official life to her country home, Malmaison, where she practiced the gentle art of growing roses. History records that, so ardent was Josephine's love of gardening, she even incurred the disapproval of her royal lord and master, Napoleon, who protested at her garden extravagances, a situation not unfamiliar to many a common, back-yard gardener of today. CHOOSING ROSES FOR THE HOME GARDEN It was Josephine's hope to assemble a plant of every known rose in her garden, and she commissioned all botanists, plant hunters, travelers, and even Napoleon's great military expeditions, to bring back new kinds of roses from foreign 389 lands far and wide. At length, she secured 250 different kinds, which included practically all known species and varieties of that day. But, like every true gardener, Josephine was not content with this accomplishment, and she constantly Photograph Courtesy of Jackson and Perkins Company, Newark, New York HYBRID TEA ROSE "MANDALAY" 390 encouraged botanists and nurserymen to practice the then new art of hybridization, in order to create still other improved rose varieties. Under her patronage, many new roses were developed by this method, and it was during this colorful time that the custom of naming new roses began. Most of the new roses were named after the burly and rough generals of Napoleon's army, the popular heroes of that militant age. A few years later, another new rose came from China which bore small flowers not only in June, but in succeeding crops, month after month. This became known as the China Tea Rose. Rose hybridizers pollenized this everbloomer with other large-flowered June roses, and the result was the lovely La France rose, the first of all the hybrid tea roses. This important event occurred in the year 1867, and it ushered in our modern age of everblooming roses. Plant hybridizers of every country, including France, England, Ireland, Denmark, Germany, Spain —not forgetting our own United States—all produced famous rose hybridizers who were constantly striving to create more and more lovely, better, bigger, and finer, everblooming roses. This world-wide interest accounts for the welter of strange and foreign names of our roses. We now have roses bearing the names of kings and queens, presidents, imperial potentates, actresses, duchesses, German frauen, and Spanish senoras, as well as plain Margaret McGredy—even little Dainty Bess, whoever she may be. Such a teeming multitude of strange names confronts any new convert to gardening, that many RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE 1946 have been known to cry out with Shakespeare's Juliet, "What's in a name? That which we call a rose by any other name would smell as sweet." cannot choose blindly from this confusing abundance of varieties, for we soon learn that roses are much like human beings; they have their individual faults and good qualities, their likes and dislikes, their queer traits and peculiar characteristics. We must grow them in order to know them well. Many an amiable-appearing rose turns out to be a stingy, poor bloomer, or perhaps one that tums an unpleasant purplish color when fully open; or it wilts down at the first warm hint of the sun. Many varieties actually attract the villainous rose beetle, while others are prone to mildew. Another bad fault is that of "balling" the buds in wet weather, so that they do not open, but remain a poor blob of unpleasantly limp petals. It behooves the ordinary home gardener to choose those roses of proven worth in the community, rather than the new varieties that are so enticingly offered, for many of these newcomers will prove disappointing. Let us name a few varieties that have won universal approval: Of red roses, we can safely select the variety Crimson Glory as perhaps the finest red rose of today. One might term this the perfect red rose, so rich is its color, so lovely its form, so generous and constant its bloom. It is universally acknowledged as "tops" in its class. But we must also name another older (and cheaper) red rose that CHOOSING ROSES FOR THE HOME GARDEN Photograph Courtesy of Jackson and Perkins Company, Newark New York HYBRID TEA ROSE "MARY MARGARET McBRIDE" is also near perfection, the variety Etoile de Holland. This, too, bears large blooms of clear, rich color and teliable blooming habit. "My luve is like a red, red rose, that's newly sprung in June," sang Bobby Burns. At poems he would write to these modem blooms! Next we mention a rose that deserves to be in every garden because of its strong, sturdy nature, its beauty and prolific bloom — the President Herbert Hoover. No oth- €t TOse€ variety gives more for the space it occupies. Few roses come up to it in desirability, especially 392 "PRESIDENT HERBERT HOOVER" during the fall months when its blooms of warm pink, overcast with sunset tones, develop to their fullest beauty. For years this rose has been voted as the favorite variety in the yearly rose poll taken by the Utah Rose Society, only last season having the red Crimson Glory tie with it for first place. The last named, together with the two Radiance roses, the pink and the red, should be grown by all gardeners living in colder sections of the country, for these are among the hardiest of all roses. Pink roses are a favorite of almost every rose lover, and there are many excellent ones of this color. Dame Edith Helen is a magnificent pink rose, but we must whisper that this is definitely a sparse bloomer and to be classed among the stingy ones. Yet when it does deign to bloom, it RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE 1946 is well worth waiting for. Our own choice of all pink roses to date is the fairly new one called The Doctor, an amazing flower of dazzling size, sparkling color, and outstanding keeping qualities. Give this variety good care—which means an occasional mulch of manure and plenty of moisture—and it will reward you with great blooms of excellent substance that last almost twice as long as most other varieties, both in the garden and when cut. Fine perfume is another of its good qualities. Our second choice of pink varieties is Miss Rowena 'Thom, child of the sturdy Pink Radiance. This rose inherits its parent's hardiness, with blooms of a size to almost vie 'with The Doctor. Countess Vandal has won a high place as a flower of exquisite perfection and almost indescribable coloring, a warm yet delicate pink overlaid with yellow tones. This rose appears in lists of favorite varieties in all sections. Many rosarians name it as a favorite. Good yellow roses are not plentful, but the variety Eclipse has won a sure place for its lovely buds and fine, clear, lively yellow color. Of the newer varieties, Mandalay is one of the best, an elegant and large rose of glowing, clear golden color. Max Krause is also very fine, an excellent yellow of sturdy habits. Make the acquaintance of these beautiful roses in your neighbor's and near-by gardens while they are blooming this summer and fall, and make your selection of varieties to plant next spring so that you, too, can have lovely roses to contribute beauty during the Centennial celebration, as well as all down the years to come. The 116th Annual General Conference Ramona W. Cannon tened to the 116th annual general conference of the Church, held on Friday, Saturday, and Sunday, April sth, 6th, and 7th, 1946, were comforted by the proceedings with a deep sense of spiritual peace and joy, with inspiration to nobler living, and with the renewal of a pure and simple faith in God, his work upon the earth, and his promises of continued and glorified existence after death. The two meetings held on Friday, the two on Saturday, and two on Sunday, as well as the priesthood meeting held Saturday night, were all broadcast over Radio Station KSL. Elder John A. Widtsoe gave the Church of the Air radio sermon on Sunday morning, "Faith Under the Atomic Bomb," and at 9:30 A. M. Sunday, the Tabernacle choir rendered its 873d consecutive national Sunday broadcast. The opening and closing prayers by mission presidents and stake leaders were particularly thoughtful and appealing, imploring aid for the meek and suffering of the earth, for the leaders of the nations, for those who guide the Church, and for all Latter-day Saints. At the two sessions on Friday, April sth, the music was provided by the Relief Society Singing Mothers of the Salt Lake region, under the leadership of Sister Florence Jepperson Madsen, member of the Relief Society General Board. The selec- [ten many thousands who listions rendered were very choice and beautifully executed, and were inspiring to hear. The Singing Mothers and the Relief Society organization received high praise from President George Albert Smith and other speakers. The music of the great organ touched the hearts and brought a tender mood to the congregation. It was magnificent to hear and to see the vast throngs (probably numbering a full 10,000 at each session in the Tabernacle) singing with spirit the familiar and beloved songs of Zion. President George Albert Smith, in his opening talk at the first session, made reference to the spint that becomes a part of certain places and buildings. In referring to the Tabernacle, he said, "It was erected in the poverty of the people and no other place like it may be found in all the world. Often, when it is vacant, there is a spirit here that you will find in few places in the world. Many people have come here on a busy weekday as tourists, and as they have come under the shadow of this roof and looked through the building and have seen this great organ, with everything quiet, many of them have been moved to tears by the inspiration and influence they have found here." Much of President Smith's address was devoted to the theme of the closeness of God to his children. "What a comfort it is to Page 393 394 realize that there is no mistake about it, we are the children of our Father in heaven, that he does love us... That he does interest himself in our affairs. We are here as sons and daughters of the living God, trying to work our way through until we shall be worthy of an exaltation in the celestial kingdom. What a privilege it is!... I hope that we will come with a prayer in our hearts that those who address us may draw the inspiration from our Heavenly Father necessary to feed his flock." President Smith made a plea that the President of the United States, and those working with him, might live in such a way as to merit the guidance of God. He also expressed deep sympathy for the suffering people of Europe. In the priesthood meeting on Saturday evening, he spoke of the value of an individual testimony of the gospel, and marveled how people could lose their faith by substituting the philosophies of men for the revealed truth. "The philosophies of men... Will never lead anybody into eternal happiness, nor help them to find a place in the kingdom of our Heavenly Father," he declared. At the opening session of conference, President J. Reuben Clark, Jr. Read the financial report of the Church. Those listening were gratified by the growth of the Church as revealed in its financial matters, and rejoiced in the account of the welfare work accomplished, especially the sending of carloads of clothing and food to the suffering European saints. Saturday morning, President Clark in his address, stated that the only RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE 1946 way to obtain relief from the sorrow, apprehension, and anxiety that overshadow all of us, is to have a firmly rooted testimony like that of Job: "Yet in my flesh shall I see God." He cited other great testimonies connected with the life of the Savior, such as those of Simeon, Anna, and Peter's great utterance recognizing Christ as the Son of the living God. The same kind of testimony, he stated, actuated the Prophet Joseph Smith and has actuated Church members up to the present day. Anyone desiring a testimony may, through prayer and living the commandments of God, obtain such a testimony through the ministration of the Holy Ghost. President Clark, at the priesthood meeting, called for a unity of the priesthood, stating that such unity "would wield an influence that would affect the course of world affairs. He read and briefly answetred a list of ten heretical doctrines that are creeping into some Latterday Saint circles and are destructive of faith. President David O. McKay spoke, on Saturday morning, on the forthcoming Centennial celebration of the coming of the pioneers to Utah, to be held May 15th to October 15th, 1947. He reported that, on account of the shortage of housing accomodations for tourists, the celebration will be principally by and for the people of Utah. Besides using the best that home talent can produce, it is proposed to bring to the State some outstanding educational and entertainment features, symphony orchestras, stars of stage and screen, a national eisteddfod, and sports events. President McKay asked that all citizens co-operate with the mayor and officers of Salt Lake City and other cities of the State in their efforts to reduce lawlessness and vice. He urged the beautifying of our surroundings. "Every man, woman, and child in the State should sense a responsibility to do something to make the State clean and attractive." He stated that the appearance of churches, seminaries, and other Church properties should be improved by suitable landscaping, by painting, and by effecting needed repairs, and that vacant lots should be cleared of weeds and debris. "Make Utah a rose garden by planting additional bushes in every yard; remove all dead trees from the landscape," President McKay also suggested. Speaking on the same subject— the Centennial—Elder Stephen L Richards expressed the hope that Latter-day Saints would do their utmost to make this consecrated land "reflect here the minds of those noble men and women who left it as a heritage to us." A letter from Elder Ezra Taft Benson, who is presiding over the saints in Europe, was read Sunday afternoon by President George Albert Smith: Destruction, hunger, and anxiety are on every hand. Many of our saints are without home or country... In the midst of all this there is but one soul-satisfying refuge, the restored gospel of Jesus Christ. The faithful members of the Church face the future with courage undaunted. This is in great contrast to the melancholy, suicides, and discouragement all around them. Powerful testimonies to the divine calling of the Prophet Joseph Smith were given by many of the speakers, who declared that an impostor cannot make history, nor wear the mantle of a prophet. Elder Albert E. Bowen drew a parallel between the iconoclastic writers of the present, who "debunk" George Washington and Abraham Lincoln, and those who approach the Prophet Joseph Smith, and even the Savior of the world, in the same fashion. He exposed the spurious nature of some documents strongly relied upon as furnishing support for certain assertions concerning the Prophet. President George Albert Smith stated that those who belittle the Prophet Joseph Smith "will be forgotten in the remains of mother earth and the odor of their infamy will ever be with them, but honor, majesty, and fidelity to God, exemplified by Joseph Smith and attached to his name, will never die." Among the other subjects stressed by speakers at this conference were the great need for missionaries to carry the gospel to all parts of the earth, and the necessity for Latterday Saints to uphold the Constitution of this country which guarantees our freedom, bought at so dear a price by our forefathers. >— PEACE IN A GARDEN Celia A. Van Cott My garden is a friendly place, I neighbor with the flowers; Each one's a personality, I chat with them for hours. THE 116TH ANNUAL GENERAL CONFERENCE 395 Sixty Years Ago Excerpts from the Woman's Exponent, June 1, and June 15, 1886 For THE RicHts OF THE WOMEN OF ZION AND THE RIGHTS OF THE WOMEN oF ALL NATIONS FAULT-FINDING: We are all too liberal in showing to the world the faults and weaknesses of our fellow beings. Why do we not stop and scan our own selves and see if all is well—if we have not the misfortune to possess some little trifling faults, perhaps unperceived by us, still plainly visible to others? Faults that, however small they appear, will balance equally with the larger, and seemingly more important faults in our neighbor?... Let us cease all such immoral habits, and form in our minds resolves of reform; let us place, in the distant future, a mark to guide us as we journey on through life, and with that mark in view, let us strew along our pathways deeds of love, of kindness, and of truth, that we may thereby lay up treasures in heaven. —Hyacinth = * % * HOME AGAIN: At last, after an absence of some months, traveling hither and thither, up and down, visiting scenes of interest and places specially dear on account of childhood's associations, clasping the hands of those of our own kindred from whom we had been many long years separated, and sojourning sometimes temporarily among strangers, it is particularly pleasant to be home once more among the Saints, and to meet the kindly and cordial welcome from familiar friends and acquaintances... The city, too, is in its most beautiful attire, and the air is fragrant with the perfume of roses and honeysuckles, and everything seems to denote happiness and comfort, and nature rejoices upon her thousand hills and in her peaceful vales. Zion is indeed beauti- —Editorial by Emmeline B. Wells * * * * BRIGHAM YOUNG For His Birthday, June ist For more than thirty years was he The mouth piece of the Lord; And thus by revelation taught The precepts of His word; And, Moses like, when full of years, F He left his labors here; "Twas but to labor in God's cause, Though in another sphere. —Hannah Cornaby * * * * DESERET UNIVERSITY: If I say that a great future is opening up before you, I say it not with the tongue of flattery, but with the solemn voice of friendship. Whether you become great to correspond with that future is another thing entirely, and depends largely upon the uses to which you put the time allotted you, and the talents with which you are endowed. These may be many or few, but they are a sacred trust, a stewardship, for which an account must 'some day be rendered to the Almighty Giver. It is our duty to ourselves and society to prepare for the responsibilities which life imposes, and then discharge them faithfully and fearlessly. —Address by Chancellor O. F. Whitney delivered at the graduation exercises at the University of Deseret. Page 396 Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon RISCILLA L. EVANS (Mrs. Frank Evans) of the Relief Society General Board has been re-elected to the post of corresponding secretary of the National Council of Women of the United States. Mrs. Evans was a delegate from the Relief Society to the national organization six years ago when she was serving as a missionary in the Eastern States Mission over which her husband presided. At that time she was made corresponding secretary and has held that office ever since. She will serve two more years. She accompanied President Belle S. Spafford and Edith S. Elliot of the General Board of Relief Society to the inter-continental congress of the National Councils of Women of the United States, Canada, and some of the Latin-American countries held in New York City, May 6, 7, and 8, 1946. MARGARET WEBSTER, daughter of Dame May Whitty, and Eva La Gallienne are two of the leading spirits in a group which will establish an American Repertory Theater. They will produce the plays of all countries which reveal the profounder aspects of society. Public subscriptions to support the movement will amount to $300,000. The first season six plays will be produced, three different ones being presented each alternating week. The companies will tour America from coast to coast. Kok. \ es, ME:. WALTER A. KERR is the Utah State director of the Global Thinkers, an adult educational society, non-sectarian and non-pattisan, the purpose of which is to establish woman's place in the new world. 'The society discourages drinking and smoking among women and girls, and stresses personality, intelligence, and charm. The society, incorporated in 1943, has grown rapidly and sends out four times a year, for discussion among its members, literature of a high order educating people to everv phase of these habits. Men, as well as women, belong and take an active part on the programs. Each adult member may sponsor a junior member, beginning with girls in the ninth grade. RS. YSABEL F. RENNIE, as a recipient of a traveling fellowship from Radcliffe College, lived in Argentina from 1941 to 1943. She has written The Argentine Republic, a scholarly and understanding, yet lively and colorful, book on that enigmatic country. OW that the war is over, international interchange of scholars is again becoming effective. In Columbia University, New York City, women and girls are enrolled from many countries, among them Peru, the Philippines, South Africa, and China. 2 Page 397 C-— > EDITORIAL — VOL. 33 JUNE 1946 N Gnlarge Your e THE prophets of the Lord from the Prophet Joseph Smith down to our present prophet, President George Albert Smith, have all given words of counsel to the members of Relief Society. Because they have spoken under inspiration, their advice is applicable to Relief Society members of any day. When a member may be in doubt as to the proper course to pursue, or when she feels the need of counsel, and may desire to improve her life, she can always find inspiration and instruction in the words of the prophets. After the Prophet Joseph Smith organized the Relief Society, he met with the members often to give them instructions. At a meeting held on March 28, 1842, he told the sisters: Those ordained to preside over and lead you, are authorized to appoint the different officers, as the circumstances shall require. At that same meeting he also gave:. Instructions respecting the different offices, and the necessity of every individual acting in the sphere allotted... Her, and filling the several offices to which they are appointed. He spoke of the disposition of many. To look with jealous eyes upon the standing of others who are called to preside over them... That it was better for individuals to magnify their respective callings... Tg beware of self-righteousness, and be Page 398 ouds - limited in the estimate of your own virtues and not think yourselves more righteous than others; you must enlarge your souls toward each other, if you would do like Jesus.:. You must be long-suffering, and bear with the faults and errors of mankind... Let kindness, charity and love, crown your works henceforward (D. H. C. IV, page 603 ff.). These instructions, given only eleven days after the organization of Relief Society, were necessary to the understanding of the sisters of that day. These pronouncements have been followed and have prescribed the administrative policy of the Society for a hundred years. Relief Society members are all sisters in the gospel, but members of a Relief Society unit may be appointed, by those ordained to preside over and lead them, to different offices as the circumstances shall require. When any Relief Society member is thus called to fill an office of the Relief Society, it is the duty of all other members to sustain this sister, called to preside over the rest, with full loyalty, devotion, and with singleness of heart. Other members, endowed with different talents and. Capabilities, may be called to fill other offices until the organization is completely officered. The duty of each member of Relief Society is twofold: first, to sustain with every power at her command those who have been called to preside over her in any capacity; and second, to magnify her own EDITORIAL calling with every ability at her command. By following these two rules, no taint of criticism or jealousy will find lodgment in the heart of any Relief Society member. On _ the contrary, her devotion to the Society and her unselfish works will constantly enlarge her soul; and the work of Relief Society—that of selfimprovement and loving service for others — will show a marvelous growth. By the united support of the other Relief Society members and through her own prayerful efforts, even a timid sister or one who does not feel herself to be capable of assuming the leadership of a Re- 399 lief Society, will be blessed and strengthened to carry on her work successfully; and, with the policy inaugurated in recent years of releasing officers at more frequent intervals than in earlier years, the terms of office have been shortened and many more women thus become trained in leadership. Only as each individual Relief Society member forgets self and strives through prayer and good works to enlarge her soul, will kindness, charity and love crown her works; and Relief Society fulfill its destined place in furthering the work of the Church. M. CSS. Gn Memoriam Alice Robinson Richards THE General Board of Relief Society and the membership in all the stakes and missions of the Church pay loving tribute at this time to the memory of Sister Alice Robinson Richards, wife of President George F. Richards of the Council of the Twelve Apostles. Sister Richards passed away April 21, 1946, at the age of eighty-one. Sister Richards, the devoted mother of fifteen children, was an ardent worker in the auxiliary organizations of the Church, and a faithful and inspiring missionary. She accompanied her husband on many of his journeys and was with him during the last part of his presidency of the European Mission. She will be remembered with love and appreciation by thousands of temple workers who recall her faithful ministry as Salt Lake Temple matron from 1921 to 1937. Sister Richards lived a full life, a life of service, kindness, and devotion. She will be long remembered by the women of the Church as an ideal mother in Zion. <i —— Who can find a virtuous woman? For her price is far above rubies. The heart of her husband doth safely trust in her... She will do him good and not evil all the days of her life... She looketh well to the ways of her household, and eateth not the bread of idleness. Her children arise up, and call her blessed; her husband also, and he praiseth her. Many daughters have done virtuously, but thou excellest them all. Favour is deceitful, and beauty is vain: but a woman that feareth the Lord, she shall be praised. Give her of the fruit of her hands; and let her own works praise her in the gates. (Proverbs 31:10-12, 27-31). The Bennetts' Bookkeeping System Alice Whitson Norton in the little country town of Martin. Mr. Bennett had come from some northern town to take charge of the bookkeeping department in Lloyd Brannon's grocery. At the end of a two months' trial, both parties were very much pleased with each other, so Mr. Bennett's family moved in. Such a nice family they were, too— such an addition to the town. They didn't wait to be invited to the Church services, but the first Sunday of their sojourn in Martin found the family uniting with the Church; and during the week that followed, the girls, two in number, joined the Mutual Improvement Association and asked for cards of admission to the library. The boy, whose name was Bob, in less than ten days had proved himself a star on the Martin baseball diamond, and was looked upon as a very desirable addition to the Boy Scouts. Of course, there were some who predicted the Bennetts' splendid beginning wouldn't last, but, as time passed, the skeptical were convinced that the Bennetts hadn't started anything more than was their usual mode of living. "Those Bennetts are a_ strange lot," Fred Stone admitted to his sister Lucy one day after a practice game of ball. "One never knows what to expect of them." Poge 400 r | HE Bennetts were newcomers "What have they done now?" Lucy queried. "T don't guess it would amount to anything much," Fred replied, "but you know the ball park is just back of their house, and this morning, somehow, the boys seemed all out of sorts. Nobody felt inclined to play. Bob went to the house and came back with a new bat. Of course, we thought that was what he went for, but in a short time here came his sisters with a big pitcher of lemonade and a plate of cakes, and then we knew that he had only brought the bat for an excuse." "IT think that was fine," Lucy answered. "Certainly, it was fine, but I never knew my sisters to fix any refreshments for my guests even when they knew that company was coming." "You never asked me to," Lucy returned crossly. "T know I never did," Fred answered, "and I never so much as thought about it." "There is something unusual about those Bennetts," Lucy said, more to herself than to her companion, "and I'm going to find out what it is that makes them so considerate of each other." "Leave it to a girl to find out things," Fred chuckled. "But how they live so well on a mere bookkeeper's salary is beyond me." The next morning, Fred was sent to the country to look up a little business affair for his father, and THE BENNETTS' BOOKKEEPING SYSTEM Lucy went over for a week-end visit with the Bennetts. The following Tuesday found them both at home again. "Did you find out what you went for?" Lucy asked, when Fred came in. "Certainly I did," the boy answered, "did you?" "Yes," Lucy responded softly. "I found out the whole Bennett family are bookkeepers." "You don't mean it!' claimed in astonishment. "Yes, I do," Lucy answered, "and they've got a wonderful system. Mary explained it all to me. To begin with, at the first of each year, the father presents each member of the family with a little blank book. He makes a request that, in these books, each one keep a record of what he or she does toward making people happy, and what they receive from other people that gives them Fred _ ex- #1 happiness. Then, there's a column for kind words, a column for angry spells, a column for selfish acts, a column for generosity, a column for real money—how much, and what it goes for. At the end of the year Mr. Bennett balances the books according to his method of justice, and to the one whose book averages the greatest per cent of right living, a gold medal is presented." For a moment the sister and brother stood looking at each other in silence, then a smile spread over Fred's ruddy face. "T call that a pretty good system, Sis, for keeping tab on ourselves, don't you?" "T certainly do," Lucy answered, "and I mean to take up the Bennetts' system of bookkeeping for my own personal benefit right away." "Get two books, Sis," Fred called from the door a few moments later. "Tl start with you."! SUMMER SONG Margery S. Stewart I think my front porch has a special grace, When small girls use it for a gathering place. What matter chipped-off paint and battered stair, When they, absorbed and grave, are playing there— At school or house, or baking angel cake. I must step carefully lest I should break Pies made of mud and pebbles; I must not walk Upon the dolls they fashion from the hollyhock. There are so many porches, bright and bare, With only ghosts of small girls Playing there. Only Human Marguerite J. Griffin AMILLA stepped upon the C back porch to shake the dust from a small rug. She was hot and tired, with a weariness more than physical. "Jimmy!" she called petulantly, "Look at your clothes!" The six-year-old youngster, wiry and angular, stopped to look first at his mother and then down at the smudges across his middle. "No one would believe you were clean this morning." "Oh, Dick 'n Bill 'n me was just playing Indians. They bound me up so I got dirty." Now Camilla could see the other two grubby faces peering out from behind the lilac bush by the back fence. Their eyes were wide and solemn. Jimmy spoke quickly, "Never mind, Mama. It's Bill's turn to get caught next, and then I won't get so dirty." "Well, don't be too noisy or you'll disturb Grandma," she said, falling back on the old worry. "But Grandma's out walking in the yard." Camilla turned surprised eyes to the place where the small dirty finger pointed. Sure enough, her mother was coming toward them, light of step as in the old days. Her face seemed more relaxed and Camilla felt a burst of gladness warm her heart, and words rushed to her lips. Why, Mother, you look as you always did! You're yourself again! But she didn't say them. She dared not. Page 402 For after all, this was the first time her mother had even ventured out of her room for five months, since the day the telegram had come from the War Department: "Regret to inform you that your son, Lt. Robert Wynston, is reported missing in a flight over Germany." Mother had collapsed on that day. It hadn't mattered that she had other sons—Robbie was her baby in spite of being six feet two inches tall. Her mind had seemed to snap, and she hadn't accepted the fact. Since then she had lived in the past. Jimmy spoke first, "Hello, Grandma. It's good to see you outside." The graying woman fondled the child's tousled head and the lines of her white face softened a little. "TIsn't he a sight?" asked Camilla nervously. "You'd never know he was clean two hours ago." "Don't scold him, Camilla," the woman 'said wearily. "Be glad you have him to scrub and care for." So Camilla knew there was no change in her mother. Physically she walked in the garden. Mentally she was no better. All she thought and talked about was Robbie when he was a child at her knee, the things he'd said, the things he'd done. That was all she seemed to remember. Scrubbing grimy knees, washing dirty ears, combing a tousled head, always Robbie. She had reared a large family. She had lived her life bravely, but Robbie, the youngest, she had kept in her heart as her baby. ONLY HUMAN When her other boys had gone to war, she had borne it. They were men. They were self-reliant. But Robbie was only a youth for all his strapping size. She had almost wilted when he left for camp. She had visibly aged when he had been sent overseas. And when he had been reported missing, something in the stamina of her character had snapped, and she had lain crushed and hopeless for weeks on end. It was the flesh of him she longed for, just to know where he lay, living or— dead. Yes, Camilla could see that her mother was still the same, and the grim despair of it weighed down on her once more. UT Mrs. Wynston could see things, too, for she had not lost all her power of understanding. She realized that Camilla was bearing the brunt of her weakness, and she knew she had no night to burden her in such a way. She did not want to do it and yet she couldn't seem to help herself. How could one fight when fight was gone? Someday, perhaps, she would tell Camilla, thank her for her love and patience, but not today. Today it was all she could do to walk in the garden and feel the warmth of the sun upon her stooping shoulders and wonder if it shone on Robbie somewhere — somewhere. Tl just walk around a little," she said, trying to smile. Camilla watched her mother turn the corner of the house, thinking, Her step is strong and sure. It's her heart that weighs her down, not her body's heart, her soul's. Mrs. Wynston walked faster and 403 faster as she neared the front yard as if, strangely enough, she were anticipating something. Yet she could not have said why she felt the way she did, but urgency was there, and she went straight to the front gate. For a moment she leaned upon it with one hand, shading her eyes with the other, as if she knew she would see a tall, lithe soldier with air corps insignia coming up the street with a familiar swingswinging stride. And yet, when she did see exactly that, she wiped her eyes as if it were a mirage, as if, fearfully, it would vanish. But the figure came on and on, and her heart beat faster. If it were only Robbie! But it was almost as good as seeing Robbie himself. It was his chum, Don Murphy, who lived a block up the street and another one down. The two had been inseparable, as they grew up, had gone into the same service, had even flown in the same plane in countless taids over Germany. If Don were back— He came inside the gate and took the small gray woman in his arms, tenderly, gently, yet with almost the same affection and strength that Robbie would have done. For a moment she could pretend it was Robbie. She could say to herself, "Robbie is here." But all the while she knew it wasn't so. He held her from him at last, and he saw the question in her eyes that her lips were too tremulous to ask. Tears thickened his voice when he spoke. "T flew with him on every mission. I'd have been on that last one, only I was stricken with appendicitis the night before. But don't worry, Mrs. Wynston, Rob can take care of him- 404 self all right. Lots of flyers parachute and get out through the underground. Just lots." "Its been five months, though." "It takes time. More than you can imagine." "I suppose so. Let's sit here on this bench a minute. Can you stay a little while?" Her knees had no strength. " Sure. No one knows I'm coming home anyway. I wanted to drop in on them and find them just as I left them, with no fuss or bother." But you can't do that, she thought with fleeting panic. Your little sister has married since you were gone. She has a baby now, instead of a doll. And your mother— She was watching Don's face carefully. The face was the same, the same clean-cut lines, the same eyes, but still different somehow, older, with an age beyond the measure of years, tired, too. How would Robbie look could she see him today? Don sensed that her thoughts had turned to her own son. "Tl never forget him," he said. ""He's given me more than I can tell you, and you first gave it to him." Mrs. Wynston's face was puzzled. She didn't understand. "Remember how you used to give him cookies when we were kids? Maybe you thought you were giving just to him, but there were always me and Slim and Spike and that crippled kid just around the corner. Robbie never ate those cookies alone. He always had enough to go around for all of us, even if he had to break them in smaller pieces. We ate them and thought you were swell, then. You could cook so well, and you never said 'No' to Rob when he went in for more. Well, we thought RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE 1946 you were swell and we never told you." He paused as if the memory of those far-off years was good to cling to. She saw that there was a patch of silver hair like a streak over one ear. Don, no older than Robbie! Too young! Too young! "Well, Mrs. Wynston, there are some other fellows who think you're swell, but who may never get to see you to tell you so. The crew on Rob's plane. With them he shared things more satisfying than cookies, soulfood that you had stored up in him. You know, Mrs. Wynston, a fellow does a lot of thinking when he knows his mission is to deal out - death from the air, when he wonders if he'll get back to his base again all in one piece." "\ His words were calm, quiet, and unemotional, but he saw the woman wince and he wondered if this comforted her. But he had to tell her how it was. He saw Camilla step watchfully to the front door. He saw recognition light up her face, and then she quickly retreated lest she intrude. "Well, a man's nerve is easily shaken at times like that. He finds out he's afraid, and it isn't fun to know you're a coward." No, it isn't, thought the woman bitterly. "But Rob gave us strength. He knew how to pray because you'd taught him." Like a miracle, she could almost feel the little lad at her knee lisping, "Dear Father in heaven, bless father, bless mother, bless—" She could almost feel the silk of his hair as she had when so often she had placed her hand upon his bowed head. ONLY HUMAN always near if We chose to cal] upon him. We didn't fee] so lost then," stowing family? So much to share with others while ['ye made no use ish no longer <é to do, bak with her mending." "You're tight, Mrs, Wynston, | to see the old town as I Deep down inside I knew 406 it was impossible. -You can't ever go back, really. Even the streets, the houses, aren't quite the same. They're a little older, a little more weather-beaten." "The war has changed everything, Don." "IT know it. Even little Susan Endell. I think I've loved her all my life, Mrs. Wynston, but I couldn't tell her so. Just the sight of her made me tongue-tied." He was flushed and boyish now. "She was so feminine and fragile looking. Well, this very morning as I walked past her house, there she was working in her garden. She wore a big straw hat and her face was flushed with exertion. There were freckles and a smudge of dirt across her nose, too, and because of it I forgot to be shy and before I knew it, I was kissing her and telling her all the things I've dreamed of for so long. And Mrs. Wynston, she said, 'Yes'. We're going to be married. I have a thirty-day furlough, you know. But it was the smudge on her nose that did it." "Maybe so," said the woman doubtfully. "But you've changed, too, Don. You're older and stronger and more sure of yourself." "IT don't know about that, but if I'd seen her in frills and furbelows I wouldn't have dared." "Well, I won't argue. Ill just congratulate you," and Mrs. Wynston was laughing quite zestfully. Camilla had come to the door again, her face puzzled by the sound of her mother's mirth. 'Hello, Don," she called. "Hi, Camilla. I'll see you later. I haven't been home yet, so I must get going." He swung through the old gate RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE 1946 like a school boy. The hinges squeaked gaily. "Hey, don't do that!" shouted little Jimmy, coming up jealously. "My Mom won't let me do it." She won't? Thought Mrs. Wynston. Well, of course, hinges are harder to replace in wartime, but— She had a job to do. She must call up the Murphy's house and tell Don's sister her brother was on his way home, so she could prepare his mother for the surprise. They had never told him his mother had had a heart attack. They hadn't wanted to worry him while he was away. Besides, she was much better now, but a sudden shock, even though a pleasant one, should be avoided. * ek Kk & Camilla sat down weakly in the porch swing. The sight of her mother dashing up the steps and into the house was too much for her, but the firm, commanding voice giving its message over the phone was like music to her ears. When Mrs. Wynston had finished, she came out upon the front porch, and it was as if she had just returned from a long journey. Camilla looked up at her mother anxiously, but in the older woman's face she saw only vigor and courage and, more precious than all, deep love burning there for her daughter. Camilla's eyes filled with hot tears and she looked quickly away. But Mrs. Wynston understood. It's no more than I've done, she thought. I let her bear the brunt of my emotions. She uses a little rebuke to cover up hers. I must talk to her sometime, not now. But sometime, to let her know I understand all she has done. THE SETTLEMENT OF SANPETE VALLEY 407 The Settlement of Sanpete Valley (Continued from page 377) Sanpitch River. Two years later about fifteen Welsh families settled on the beautiful spot, and named the colony Wales in honor of their native country. Settlements began to dot the Valley from north to south, homes were built, the problems of supplying the necessities of life became less hazardous, and the settlers found time to turn their attention to new projects and cultural pursuits which augured well for the future of Sanpete Valley. (To be continued ) THE ORIGIN OF SONG Katherine Fernelius Larsen Man listened, rapt, when storm winds thundered high And made the forest one vast symphony; He caught new cadences, when on his ears First fell the heavy pulsing of the sea. All these—and slow year A depth and breadth, A resignation to embatt] A hope of peace for h Out of his joy, his toil, s added to his cry of pain and sorrow born; ed life, earts by anguish torn. His need for God, His grief and pain, through man's allotted days, Music, the comforter of man, was born— Music, the perfect medium of praise! GARDEN AND CONSERVE: Ad Grow as much food as you can. Do n d your bit to the world food supply. Ot waste any food. T. A. Hunt N the State of Utah ere ise in Squares, as it jg today, but the Ong, narrow y, lley that nds whole field was gol 1) ripened Ortuously for neatly two hun Shocks of cyt nd bound praj dred miles etw Mountain any things had happened Since tile farms, no luxuriant vegetation, first camp had been made, The nothing green €xcept a thin Tibbon free Year's scanty "rops had been of cottonwoods and willows along Planted too late to Mature. The the Winding Course Of the Tiver, Be. S€cond year, the 'tops had been subyond this, on cither Side, a wide stip jected to two Scourges, Stasshoppers and inhospitable, even forbidding. Savages to Consider peace. ThereLike the Utes who roamed over its fore, much of the time and energy bottom lands ang benches and of the men and boys hag been re. Tain Streams, it had Tugsed elements bench and build the four thick, high, of beauty, but, at heart, it Was quite Walls of the fort. That task i golden glory for 4 few splendid mo. Foot gate built of hewn cedars Pinned ments, herders were driving home a together with strong maple pegs, motley drove of cattle, the chief AS yet, the Indians had made no THE PRICE duty. They walked south and around the corner until they met on the south side of the fort, then turned and walked back, meeting again on the north side of the cattle corral. Thus the time was to be spent until they were relieved. The grain had prematurely ripened pecause of the excessive heat and drought and the harvesting of it was late since it had taken so much time and work to complete the fort. For that reason, the men who ha worked through the long, burning day cradling and binding grain, were red and worn out. Yom ALTON and Andrew Rasmussen were who emerged for duty that night. Each had cradled five acres of grain that day. As Tom approached corral gate, the animals were being not there. "Where are m' cattle, Bill?" he the herders. "When we drove the herd out of the cottonwoods, yout oxen were not there, an' your boy, Tommie, went long." As the darkness fell and still no sign of the boy appeared, Tom walked his beat with an sncreasing anxiety. Returning from the cattle corral on one of his rounds, he saw 4 shaft of light 409 gleaming through the partly opened fort gate. A woman, middle-aged, handsome, and slender, stood in the iNuminated space. Her mass of jet black hair was combed back, braided, and wound into a large bob at the base of her head. Her features were finely and delicately formed. The large, expressive black eyes bespake both spirit and tenderness. Peculiarly curved little wrinkles at the comers of her mouth showed that her face was pleasant, and that "she Her chin and mouth ave one the impression of strength Everyone in the fort knew that it was not an easy Hannah Alton's mind when she had made it up. In and obstinate. T that she was the kindest and gentlest woman in the world, and the best and most cheerful of wives. He knew what had brought her there. He hoped to hide his anxiety concerning the boy from her, but felt sure he could not do it. He therefore hesitated a moment in Ot der to organize a plan. "Halt! Who goes there?" "Tt is I, thy wife, Hannah," replied. "And I am sorely smitten wi anxiety because OUT Tommie is out lookin' for the cattle and hasna' returned." "Thou mustna worry," comforted Tom. "I havena' doubt that our Tommie will be able to ta' care 0 on 9? Himself and come in after a bit. "Tom, thou wanna tell me that thou are not worried over the lad Thou must leave off standing guard and go and seek him." "That I canna' do without the 410 permission of the captain," replied Tom soberly. "The captain willna' give you leave," said Hannah. "J have already sought him and he says that all the men are tired and that thou must ta' thy regular turn at guard. The captain don'na' like me." She looked toward the blackness, closing them in, the dark that held her boy. "Tom, thou must go. I will ta' thy place and attend guard instead o' thee." "Hannah," answered Tom, "I fain would go and seek the lad, but thou knowest I canna' substitute anyone in my place. I'm disobeying orders even to let thee stand and delay me. Go to the captain and send 'im hither that I may seek my release." "Nay, Tom," she replied. "If thou willna' or canna' go and seek thy son who is out yonder, I shall take thy place there. There's na' rule or order as can stop me from that." She turned and ran into the darkness. Tom ran after her and called, but she was gone. At the corner ot the fort he met Andrew Rasmussen, who was waiting there for him. "Vat und who was dat?" he said excitedly. "Und vy don't you stop im?" "That was my wife," said Tom. "And naught but a bullet could stop 'er. Our Tommie is out there huntin' cattle, and she ha' gone to seek im Tom walked rapidly back to the gate and called loudly to the captain. When he came, he seemed not at all pleased. "What do you want now?" he asked rather irritably. "Mi lad is out yonder at the cottonwoods hunting mi cattle," said Tom meekly, "an' mi wife is greatly RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE 1946 worried and excited about it. I wish to be excused from guard duty while I go an' seek 'im." "The boy is all night. He's able to take care of himself! He's nearly aman. Thirteen, isn't he?" "Yes, the lad is past thirteen," replied Tom. "But mi wife ha' gone in search o' him. She willna' retum until she finds the lad and he willna' come back without the cattle. 1 canna' stay here safe while mi own are out there in the dark. For God's sake release me, captain. I must go to 'em." "You have worked yourself into a stew about nothing. It has been weeks since we saw an Indian. The darkness won't hurt them." The captain started to go, then, as one suddenly remembering something, he turned back. "Tom! You have disobeyed orders by permitting your wife to pass. You should never have let her do so. Your wife is too headstrong. Since she has gone, let her stay. 'The experience will not do her any-harm. Continue your guard duty." TOM resumed the patrol of the beat. His heart was heavy and he was greatly worried. He did not speak to the other guard as they met. As he walked, he stared into the darkness. Once he fancied he saw them coming, heard the footfalls of the oxen, but he knew the things he saw and heard were only creatures of his imagination. The temptation to desert his post and go in search of his dear ones was almost irresistible, but he remained. He walked, and listened and stared, he pictured horrible things, until finally he was quite mad. His consciousness seemed to be aware of but one thing. He must THE PRICE walk, walk, walk, back and forth, back and forth. He must walk until he could see the outline of Andrew Rasmussen's broad shoulders and then turn, walk back, meet Rasmussen, tur back. He was almost crushed with the pettiness of it in the face of the greater danger. How slowly the time dragged on. Would this eternal walking never cease? Where were his wife and son? Walk! Walk! Walk! Around the corner. He could see the outline of Rasmussen a rod or so out from the cattle fence. Rasmussen turned and started back. Tom, too, began to retrace his steps. He passed the corner, and made his steady march by the wall of the fort. A hoot owl near the cattle corral called. Another out towards the mountain answered. Suddenly, Tom recalled that he had passed a shadowy something lying against the fence. Becoming instantly alert, he whirled about and walked cautiously back. Yes, there it was! A dark shadow lying against the fence. It might be an animal that had been left out of the corral. Perhaps it was one of his own oxen that had returned. Perhaps Tommie had driven them in after all. He began to walk rapidly toward the dark spot. There was a movement. The shadow began to divide, to take several forms, to become human beings. Was it? Could it be Indians? Yes, he was sure of it now. The forms made a dash for the darkness. Tom's musket came to his shoulder. He fired! Following the report there was a moan, a thudding sound as if something heavy had fallen upon the soft earth. Then for an instant all was quiet. Soon, however, there came to Tom's ears low moans from 411 out in the darkness, which were soon drowned by the commotion from the fort. The report of the shot had aroused the people inside. Having fired, Tom mechanically but rapidly began to reload his musket. He had hardly finished when several men appeared near the corral gate. "Halt!" called Tom. "Who are you?" "What's happened?" asked one of the group. "T think I ha' shot an Indian." Investigation proved that he had, indeed, wounded an Indian, and that several Indians had begun to dig out a section of the corral fence with a view to stampeding the cattle. It was near midnight and Tom sought the captain and obtained his release from further guard duty. The commander did not think it wise to search for Hannah and Tommie until it came daybreak, but Tom did. He entered the low room occupied by himself and family and bade his sleeping children a silent farewell. (The shepherd must seek the lost one, even though the risk to the flock be great.) Stumbling along through the greasewoods, anxious to reach the cottonwoods and their protection, Tom prayed. Now that he could do something, make an effort to aid his wife and son, his calmness and good sense returned. The Indians might be close still. He stopped and listened, and then crept cautiously on. After ages of time had elapsed, as it seemed to him, he finally dared to call into the darkness. But no answer came to him save the noises of the night. As the first streaks of gray appeared in the east, Tom, weary and heartsick, pushed up 412 through the cottonwood thicket. Suddenly, on the stil] morning air, in came to him. "Tommie, is it thou?" "No, Hannah," he replied. "It isna' the lad, but 'tis I, thy husband, How art thou?" He moved closer to the place where her voice had seemed to come from. "Hast thee seen aught of the Jad?" "I am safe," assuringly, "But I havena' seen Tommie. "God h night. I'm fearful for the safety of our Tommie lad," It was gtowing lighter, They wandered on to the edge of the cottonskirted along the southern edge of the cottonwoods, going east toward Tom's attention was or more cattle accompanied by unshod ponies. The trail led from the southwest toward the canyon and, without stopping to reason why, they both instinctively turned and folil. 'A full mile they something Hannah looked, her face blanched, but she said, "Come. Let us see," Running, stumbling, falling, through brush » down gullies, up steep RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE 1946 banks, they hurried until they artived beneath the circling buzzards, "There he js!" cried Hannah, His strong young aIrows, and the life gone from his body. A stone clasped in his brave tight hand and numerous moccasin prints in the soft earth told only too well what had happened. Crushed and dumb with gtief and sorrow, the parents knelt by the side of the dead boy in silence. "Hannah," bitterly ~ exclaimed Tom. "I canna' bear it! 'Tis too much that we have ' give to this ternble land. It is nq' place for women and children. "Tis too cruel, too wild. I shall leave it. Yes. I shall leave it and take thee and our other children away from its consuming terribleness," not become embittered. The Lord giveth and the Lord taketh. Death comes in all lands, to young as well as old. Strong men and women are needed to subdue the wilderness and accomplish the Lord's work here. It had as well be thee and me as some other man and wife. And when 'tis done, 'twill be a good home for thee and me, and a fine inheritance for our children," "Oh, Hannah!" And there were tears in his eyes as he reverently placed his arm about her, "Thou art an angel! Thy courage and fortitude hath shamed away my weakness," Faith Is a Heritage Christie Lund Coles CHAPTER 3 Synopsis: Enid and Tom Drage, a young married couple, are very happy in their humble furnished apartment in a small town until Tom is brought home dead from a factory accident. Enid is frightened by the future she must make for her small daughter, but she feels Tom's influence still with her. NID lay in the tall grass in the back yard. The leaves of the lilac bush above her moved ever so slightly in the hot July breeze. Sharon was playing near by, putting sand into a little bucket, then emptying it again on the sand pile. The child's face was tranquil, full of peace and instinctive contentment. Enid thought of the words, "Except ye be converted and become as little children, ye cannot enter into the kingdom of heaven." She wondered vaguely if that was what it meant—that we must accept life simply, accept each day as a good gift, without doubt or sorrow or apprehension. But acceptance was hard when one could see such a little way ahead in the great scheme of things. Already her problems were beginning to loom large and frightening. The grocer who had been so kind when Tom was alive was becoming cool, more hesitant about filling her orders. Her rent would soon be due and the money for it was not there. She knew the moment was near when she must go and talk to Miss Nobbitt. That was difficult, for, though the woman had been kind enough in her way, Enid felt somewhat afraid of her, of her set mouth and her sterness. But money was not her only problem. She was lonely. The hopes she had had of a happy social life were gone. Everyone was very kind when she went to her meetings, but it ended there. The other women went home to busy households, to husbands coming home, to parties, pethaps, where there would be so many couples. There was no place for an extra woman, especially one with a small child. She closed her eyes for a moment, then forced herself to smile a little wryly. She wasn't going to feel sorry for herself. Not any more. It was a beautiful day; the sun was warm upon her face, upon her bare arms. It seemed to hold healing in its warmth, and peace, and a calm reassurance. She looked up at the wide blue sky, endless, incomprehensible. Her world seemed to grow small, her troubles seemed to become insignificant before its vastness. What was one life, one problem, in the face of the great, wonderful universe. Every bird singing above her head was cared for, every wind was guided in its direction; surely the God who kept all things in order, who made all things, would be mindful of her, also. Her muscles relaxed and stretched. Her child laughed in complete happiness. Enid sat up, feeling suddenly that this moment when she had Page 413 414 found new courage, new hope, temporary though it might be, was the time to go and talk to Miss Nobbitt. She stood up, ran her hand over her skirt, straightening it. Then she reached a hand to Sharon, saying, "Come here, darling. We must go into the house." The child shook her head, looking crestfallen. "We will come back," her mother assured her, wiping the sand from her small chubby fingers and putting an unruly curl in place. Miss Nobbitt liked the child. It was wise, as well as necessary, to take her with her when she made the call. As she waited on the porch for her landlady to answer the door, she could see through the screen the part of the house which the woman occupied. It was beautifully, almost lavishly, furnished with substantial, rather old furniture. It looked cool and comfortable after the warm sun. Evidently her family had been well off, enough so, at least, that she had a home for the rest of her life and an apartment to rent. A home of one's own, a place where no one could say, "Now you must move," seemed a wonderful possession to Enid. Something sure, something good, more than a_ shelter, more than most people seemed to realize. She would have felt so much better if Tom and she had owned a home, if it had been their own, if they had put hours into it, painting, planting, furnishing. It would have been an extra bond between them. It would have been an extra safeguard for their child, for she had noticed that the children whose parents owned their homes, who were settled and part of a street or a community, were less likely to go astray, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE 1946 to look far afield for pleasure and happiness. Miss Nobbitt was coming toward her, dressed in her perpetual afternoon black. "Oh," she greeted Enid, almost in surprise, "come in." Enid smiled up at her in friendliness and a little shyness, "I hope I'm not disturbing you." "Of course not. Come into the sitting room. It is cooler there." They passed into the large parlor, across a hall with heavy oak paneling into another comfortable room with chintz-covered chairs, with hand-carved tables, with a shiny, new Victrola in one comer. Enid couldn't resist saying, "How nice. How very nice." ACAIN there was a look of sutprise in Miss Nobbitt's eyes as she looked about the room. "It's comfortable," was all she said, sitting down rather stiffly, motioning her guest to do likewise. Enid lifted Sharon to her knee as she gave herself a moment more of time before she approached the subject about which she must speak. Miss Nobbitt waited in silence. Ominous silence, Enid felt, as she cried within herself, "Oh, why don't you say something, make it a little easier. Aren't you human?" Yet, her voice was controlled and soft as she finally spoke. She said, "IT thought I would speak to you about the rent. I know you could rent your rooms to someone who would be more' dependable than we are. I haven't much money left, but I am going to try to find something to do... I'll make it all up _. If you'll let us stay..." She hadn't meant to have her FAITH IS A HERITAGE voice break, to have tears come to her eyes. But it was too late now, it didn't matter. She wiped her eyes, murmuring, "T'm sorry," as she started to rise, afraid to wait for an answer, wondering what had made her believe this austere woman could be touched, could be human. But Miss Nobbitt was telling her to sit down and she was obeying. She looked at her questioningly and was amazed to see tears in the older woman's eyes. "Listen to me, my child," she was saying, "I know you think me unkind and heartless. I'm not. When you first came here with your handsome husband, I used to watch you laughing together. I would see him kiss your hair and I felt I couldn't bear it. I thought I disliked you. When your child was born my dislike seemed to grow. I know now it was jealousy. You had the things I have been denied. Even when your husband died I was still jealous because you had this beautiful little girl. Somehow, today, as you talked I felt almost as if you were my own daughter... You could be, you know. I'm so ashamed." She pressed her hand hard against her eyes and her body shook with harsh sobs. She wept as one who has long forgotten the relief of tears. Enid came over to her, admonishing, "You mustn't cry, it's all right." For the first time, Enid saw Miss Nobbitt smile, a tremulous, gentle smile as she dried her eyes and reached out her arms to Sharon who was standing beside her, looking incredulously sad. "Come here," she whispered, "come here and let me hold you." The next moment she was pressing 415 the child to her in great love and gentleness. "You see," she was saying, "I know what it means to be in love. I loved someone once... Very, very much. My family objected and I sent him away. Of course, I kept hoping he would come back. But I learned later that he married a girl in California. Some said it was done for spite, I don't know. Right now... And for the first time... I hope not. There's so little happiness, I hope he found it with her. I hope she was happy, too." She added simply, "He's dead now." Enid looked at her with great compassion. She tried to imagine her as she must have looked twenty-five years ago, tall and slender and pretty... In love and happy. It seemed to her now that everyone had a cross to bear sooner or later. It helped a little to think that. Miss Nobbit told her, " I want you to stay on here as long as you want. Make it your home, forget about the rent." "T couldn't do that," protested the girl, her blue eyes wide, "I'll pay you when I get to working." "What do you intend to do?" "IT suppose I'll have to just do anything. I was studying to be a teacher. I wish I had finished... Though I wouldn't have missed these beautiful years... With Tom." "Perhaps, if you work, you can save enough to go back to school. You'll have quite awhile to support Sharon if you don't marry again." Enid looked at her as if the thought were incongruous, "Oh, I'll never do that," she assured her. "You're young. You're very pretty. Don't let bitterness spoil your 416 life, as I did. But, to get back to the work, there are several women in town who need help in their homes. I'm sure you could keep quite busy." Enid recoiled from the thought of going into other women's homes as a servant, doing menial work. Miss Nobbitt seemed to know her thoughts for she told her, "Don't be too proud. Any work that is honest is honorable. As long as you have the strength to work... And a clear conscience, you have practically everything." "Thank you," Enid said. "You've been more than kind. You don't know how it helps." "Yes, I do. I should have done all of this much, much sooner. I was too selfish. Now, the two of you' RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE 1946 come over here a little later for supper. I have a new phonograph and some records. We'll havea pleasant time." They did have a pleasant time. Enid was more happy and more ready for sleep than she had been for many days. Just as she had tucked the child in for the night and dimmed the light, there was a knock on the door. She opened it, looking out into the lavender evening, gathering upon the world. She saw a tall man in a dark suit standing in the doorway. For a moment, she was sure he had the wrong door. But he reassured her, asking her name and adding, "I'd like to talk to you about your husband's death." (To be continued ) CLASS REUNION Olive M. Nicholes Time's measured tread along the campus ways Brings memories back — one old friend with me still — As burgeoning of spring, and summer days Point to the cnmson sumac on the hill, Bleak winter's sculptures, and the barricade Of crystal bridges on the silent stream. The locust shrills a haunting serenade Where lovers' Jane is but a happy dream, And phantom classmates climb the hill with me, For you, alone, remained to give it grace. Time blots the years with rigid certainty, But grants me largess in your smiling face. Margaret C. Pickering, General Secretary-Treasurer Regulations governing the submittal of material for 'Notes from the Field" appear in the Magazine for February 1944, page 104. GENERAL ACTIVITIES AND SPECIAL PROGRAMS SMITHFIELD STAKE (UTAH), SMITHFIELD FIRST WARD VETERAN RELIEF SOCIETY WORKERS Front row, left to right: Betty Olson; Sarah Pitcher; Rhoda Coleman; Jane Miles (age 92); Mary Coleman (deceased); Cecilia G. Nelson (Age 87). Back row, left to night: Lucile N. Erickson, President Smithfield First Ward Relief Society; Lettie Dowdle; Jane N. Tidwell, former counselor; Elizabeth Cannell, former president; Marty Griffith; Eleanor Miles; Matilda Coleman; Mary A. Deppe; Bishop Merlin T. Van Orden, Smithfield First Ward. This photograph was taken in October 1944. All of these sisters, except one, are still living and enjoying fairly good health. They have all served in the Relief Society for many years and all are still active. At the time the photograph was taken the thirteen elderly women averaged more than seventy-seven years of age. The average of the twelve now living is more than seventy-nine years. Photograph submitted by Lucile N. Erickson Page 417 418 Big Horn Stake (Wyoming) Lovell Ward ROM Big Horn Stake, under the presidency of Grace E. Allphin, the report of an outstanding evening of music has been received. The Singing Mothers of Lovell Ward presented a number of very beautiful renditions, including "'Holiness Becometh the House of the Lord," "Holy Redeemer," "Lift Thine Eyes to the Mountain," and "Let All My Life Be Music." The director was Carma B. Johnson, with Ada B. Baxter and Veoma Stahle as accompanists. The organ prelude was played by Sister Daisy A. Tew. So excellent was the rendition, and so satisfying the spiritual inRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE 1946 fluence of this program, that Bishop Frank H. Brown of the Lovell Ward wrote the General Board of Relief Society the following comment on the performance: I am herewith enclosing a printed program for an evening of music presented by the Singing Mothers of the Lovell Ward Relief Society. It was one of the finest and most inspiring evenings I have spent for many years. The spirit of the occasion was outstanding, and the ability of the sisters in their presentation of the songs was of the highest type. The public was invited to enjoy this hour of music with the saints, and their pleasure and admiration were very great. You sisters of the Relief Society are to be congratulated on having in your organization a group known as the Singing Mothers. Many people have been brought closer to their Maker because of the very sweet services rendered by these sisters. SOUTH LOS ANGELES STAKE (CALIFORNIA), HUNTINGTON PARK WARD RELIEF SOCIETY OFFICERS AND VISITING TEACHERS This photograph, submitted by Sister Viola Thorn, was taken in May 1945, to honor the eightieth birthday of Sister Katherine Kimball (lower right), a faithful Relief Society worker who has served for many years in various capacities. For the last ten years she has been a visiting teacher in the Huntington Park Ward, where she achieved a 100 per cent record. Sister Dora Wagstaff, Huntington Park Ward Relief Society president, stands in the center (top row) of the photograph. NOTES FROM THE FIELD 419 MOUNT GRAHAM STAKE, DUNCAN WARD (ARIZONA), HANDWORK DISPLAY From Mount Graham Stake, under the presidency of Erma M. Stewart, two photographs of an unusually beautiful handwork display have been received from Beatrice Merrell, Second Counselor in the Duncan Ward Relief Society. This display, in addition to the handwork, featured many treasured relics of pioneer days. 420 Pasadena Stake (California) EI Sereno Ward ROM Pasadena Stake, under the presidency of Madge P. Fowler, an unusually effective program is reported by Louise Willard, President of El Sereno Ward Relief Society: "A 'Temple of Life' was constructed, and a program portrayed a radio broadcast by the Relief Society women. This was the introductory program of the year and presented a real challenge to our members. E] Sereno is anticipating the building of a new chapel and the theme of the broadcast was designed for this purpose. Invitations in the form of a minature chapel were mailed to each woman in the ward. 2 I N c kd RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE 1946 "When the sisters assembled to hear the broadcast, introductions were made by our first counselor, and Sister Marzelle Mangum sang "IT Love a Little Cottage." Then the announcer, Faun Demke, asked what each sister had to contribute toward the building of the chapel. Our president, Louise Willard, made a comparison of the erecting of temporal buildings to the building of character. She placed, as the foundation of the chapel, Faith, Truth, Humility, Love. "The social science teacher, Blanche Calvert, placed the stately pillars, Tolerance, Sincerity, Trustworthiness, Morality. The walls, representing literature, were placed by Selma Child, who named x = go ra PASADENA STAKE, (CALIFORNIA), EL SERENO WARD "Temple of Life" Constructed for a Program in the Form of a Radio Broadcast NOTES FROM THE FIELD 421 EMIGRATION STAKE, (SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH), THIRTEENTH WARD RELIEF SOCIETY Photograph taken on the 103d anniversary celebration and relic show day. Note the young mothers and the many ladies in pioneer costume. Them Knowledge, Confidence, Culture. The Magazine chairman, Dorothy McCallister, opened wide the doors of Industry, Effort, Interest. Our visiting teachers' leader, Agnes Gallagher, gave us light through the windows of Understanding, Sympathy, Hope, Kindness. "Chanity and Service, presented by our work director, Clara Weinberg, constituted the crowning glory of the chapel, the dome. Marzelle Mangum, in music, gave Self-Expression, Gratitude, Joy, Balance; and the secretary, Connie Cleere, placed in the cornerstone, Remembrance. God-given Beauty was last added to this temple by Second Counselor Mary Snyder, when she placed Cheerfulness, Friendliness, Health, Understanding. "Marzelle Mangum sang "Bless This House," and Edna Kidwell gave the benediction. After the program each sister was given a pencil and paper and asked to either draw a plan or to write down the ideas she might have toward the construction and decoration of a perfect Relief Society room." Emigration Stake (Salt Lake City, Utah) Thirteenth Ward ILLIE C. ADAMS, President of Emigration Stake Relief Society, submits an account of the accomplishments of the Society in the Thirteenth Ward as reported by First Counselor Thelma Vetterli: "We have just completed an outstanding year of work filled with spiritual development and growth. Our greatest accomplishment was to acquaint the younger sisters of the ward with Relief Society work and interest them to the extent that they are now actively engaged with us as a vital part of the organization. 422 We engaged the services of a competent person to conduct a nurse and play hour for the young children during meeting. "We then gave these younger sisters a job to do and we made them feel needed. On work meeting day, this year, we inaugurated a monthly program luncheon to follow the usual work. The younger sisters have had complete charge of the Juncheon and a master of ceremonies from this group arranged the programs and conducted them. To mark the difference from the old work and business day, we call it work and fun day. "We have used the general theme of "Friendship" and we note the birthdays of the sisters each month, making a little ceremony of presenting each Birthday Lady with a corsage. 'This simple act has brought untold joy to many. The speakers for the day are selected with the purpose of offering a wide variety of subjects, including some excellent demonstrations. During the season we presented a well-known local authority on ceramic art who brought with her a beautiful collection of antique and modern figurines. On another occasion, a demonstration of flower arrangements was given with suggestions on interior _and exterior decoration for the holidays. Another time a woman told of her life as a missionary in Tahiti. On this occasion, our members brought their personal treasures of all kinds, handwork and odd and interesting items. When we celebrated the 103d anniversary of the founding of the Relief Society, many ladies wore pioneer costumes and the feature of that day was a relic RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE 1946 show. Many of these items had been carried across the plains by the pioneers. Included were furniture, pictures, china, books, and old letters bearing famous signatures. "Our class attendance on work and business day previously averaged twenty-two. It is now fifty-one." Maricopa Stake (Arizona) ROM Maricopa Stake, under the presidency of Vida D. Brinton, a report of an anniversary program presented in connection with the welfare assignment has been received through the stake secretary, Irene A. Duke: "At ten o'clock a. M. March 13, 1945, the Relief Society sisters arrived to decorate and arrange the ward displays around the sides of the spacious Mezona Hall. The center of attraction at the front of the hall was a beautiful Relief Society birthday cake and lighted tapers at each ¢nd of a lovely lacecovered table. A profusion of spring flowers decorated the Hall and the tables in the banquet room where each ward served a delicious luncheon for all of its members at noon. During the luncheon hour, former Relief Society stake presidents were honored and presented with corsages. All other former and present groups of stake and ward officers were honored and asked to stand. Mothers with three and four daughters present were also paid tribute. "After luncheon, a unique program was presented in the form of a skit written by our stake Relief Society president, Sister Vida Driggs Brinton. Modern and oldfashioned costumes were displayed. NOTES FROM THE FIELD Two little girls from Tempe Ward, Anita and Carolyn Cox, dressed in modern and pioneer dresses, respectively, stood as announcers at the microphone while a delightful program of modern and old-fashioned music, songs, dances, and readings was presented by the different wards. Many of the Relief Society women were attired in pioneer costumes which created an atmosphere of yesteryears, bringing back loving memories and the spirit of our pioneer ancestors." 423 Maricopa Stake (Arizona) Tempe Ward Irene A. Duke, Maricopa Stake Secretary, reports the following item from Tempe Ward: "Early in the summer, President Lola O. Turley called her counselors together to make plans for a fall bazaar. Realizing the scarcity of cotton material and all types of children's clothes, Sister Turley suggested making all the items for the bazaar from salvage material. "From feed sacks, beautiful dish PAROWAN STAKE (UTAH), QUILT DISPLAY Pioneer quilt and modern quilt. The quilt at the right is fifty years old, is woolfilled and made of green calico and bleached muslin. The quilting is exquisitely done. The quilt on the left is made of white muslin and pastel colors, a very lovely piece of handwork. Photograph submitted by Barbara M. Adams, President Parowan Stake Relief Society. 424 towels, luncheon sets, scarves, and aprons were made. From old socks and knitted matemals, rugs were hooked; quilts were pieced from scraps of material. Garments for small children were made from larger garments and from left-over pieces of material. From clothing generally considered worthless the sisters made most of the articles for the bazaar." Texas-Louisiana Mission Corpus Christi Branch ROM the Texas-Louisiana Mission, where Sister Christie J Smith is president of the Relief Society, a detailed report of activities in the Corpus Christi Branch has been received through the president, Phyllis W. Harmon: "The Corpus Christi Relief SocieRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE 1946 ty is composed largely of young navy wives, many of whom are attending Relief Society for the first time. Their enthusiasm and co-operation have made a most successful season. This Relief Society is fully organized, the outline lessons are studied, and the special Sunday programs presented. In addition, the group has undertaken, as a special project, the serving of a monthly dinner for the servicemen. These dinners have been very successful and the proceeds have been donated to the branch building fund. "Our popular activity is sewing. Most of the sewing has been done for the March 17th bazaar. Work for the bazaar was begun in October and every member of the group helped with at least one article. Instructions in machine sewing, emTEXAS-LOUISIANA (FORMERLY TEXAS) MISSION, CORPUS CHRISTI BRANCH RELIEF SOCIETY Front row, left to right: Mary Warner; Martha Warner, former Texas Mission Relief Society President; Farlina Atkinson, First Counselor Corpus Christi Branch; Phyllis H. Harmon, President; Emereth Mongomery, Secretary; Virginia Douglas; Amazon Ballard; Oliva Monney. Second row, left to right: Betty Glauser; Marjorie Smith; Clara Waterfall; Kathryn Moulton; Louise Mongomery. Third row, left to right: Kay Degner; Wanda Smith; Helen Poll; Virginia Ehlert; Anne Robinson; Irene Buhltmeyer; Louise Linton; Sybil Westlund. NOTES FROM THE FIELD broidering and crocheting were given, and many members learned to do a certain type of sewing for the first time. Items made for the ba- - zaar included luncheon sets, pillowcases, dish towels, aprons, girls' pinafores and sunsuits, boys' overalls, and a complete infant's layette, consisting of embroidered sacques, crib sheets and pillowcases, hand-knit sweaters, bootees, soakers, and shawl. In all, 158 articles were completed and over $200 was made on the bazaar." Park Stake (Salt Lake City, Utah) LeGrand Ward HILDUR E. JOHNSON, President, Park Stake Relief Society, submits an account of unique summer activities carried out in the Le- 425 Grand Ward under the direction of former President Ruby Karpowitz. "For the month of June a 'White Elephant,' sale was held. The members co-operated by donating usable but unwanted items that had accumulated. During housecleaning time. One sister purchased a muchneeded tea kettle for twenty-five cents, and there was a scramble for the flour sifter and the collection of vases. "In July an all-children program was enjoyed. Children from four to fifteen years old gave a program of singing, instrumental _ selections, readings, and tap dancing. "The month of August brought forth a display of hobbies, fancywork, relics, antiques, and large numbers of souvenirs sent home by servicemen. One aged brother disWELLS STAKE (SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH) SINGING MOTHERS These Relief Society women sang at the pioneer celebration at Liberty Park, July 24, 1945. The chorus was chosen from members of the wards in Wells Stake under the direction of Josephine Brower, stake chorister, who has served in this capacity for ten years. Lorena W. Anderson former president of Wells Stake Relief Society (now president of Temple View Stake Relief Society), in submitting the photograph, commented: "We feel a deep sense of gratitude to the Relief Society General Board for organizing the Singing Mothers, giving an opportunity for our women to sing." PARK STAKE (SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH) LE GRAND WARD RELIEF SOCIETY HOLIDAY PARTY AND APRON SALE In December 1945, the Le Grand Ward Relief Society officers, under the direction of President Ruby Karpowitz, entertained for the members at a holiday luncheon. Eighty women were present. One hundred and twenty-five aprons, made by the members, were displayed and sold. A special feature of the occasion was an exhibit of Christmas table decorations. > Since this photograph was taken the Le Grand Ward has been divided and the new Relief Society president is Sister Lavinia Shurtliff. Played his beautiful collection of water-color paintings. "And, as a crowning success, in September, a flower show was conducted. The display was very extensive and beautiful, and, according to a ward member who belongs to the Utah Rose Society, our display compared favorably with any flower show held in the State." Northwestern States Mission Astoria Branch (Oregon) ROM the Northwestern States Mission, under the presidency of Lenora K. Bringhurst, the report of an anniversary program is given by Sister Lois Allred, Secretary-Treasurer of the Astoria Branch: "The 103d anniversary social was held under the direction of President Meta Stevens with Lois Allred acting as chairman. Prayer was offered by Jean Poulsen and the congregation sang "Sweet Is the Work." The Presiding Elder, Arthur Stevens, presented an address of congratulations to the Society. This was followed by a dialogue by Thelma Rapp and Lois Leatham. As a special event of the evening, President Meta Stevens played a recording of the addresses of Sister Lyman and President Grant which were given before the Astoria Branch on 426 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE 1946 NOTES FROM THE FIELD the 100th anniversary of the organi- ' zation of the Relief Society. The congregation then sang, 'America,' and Virginia Germaine gave the benediction. "Then, by way of recreation, Thomas M. Smart directed a series of interesting games in which prizes were given to the winners. Elizabeth Noel and Thelma Rapp had prepared two beautiful birthday cakes decorated with the Relief Society colors. These cakes were served with ice cream." East Mill Creek Stake (Utah) Evergreen Ward ROM East Mill Creek Stake, where Sarah E. Bateman is the 427 new Relief Society president, an interesting note on the recently organized Evergreen Ward has been teceived through the ward president, Gladys M. Rudd: "Our new stake is small in numbers but strong in faith, with powerful men to guide it. With only 130 families in our ward, our attendance is small, but we feel that the spirit of the Heavenly Father is with us. He has said that where only a few have met in my name there I will be also. "We plan to build a new stake house and chapel with our beautiful mountains as the background, a building where we can come to worship and enjoy ourselves. We hope that when it is completed we will - 2 4 » Raid "| rena ees NORTHERN STATES MISSION, PERU (INDIANA) BRANCH RELIEF SOCIETY Photograph taken on Mother's Day, May 13, 1945 428 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE 1946 EAST MILL CREEK STAKE (UTAH) EVERGREEN WARD RELIEF SOCIETY Front row, left to right: Second Counselor Grace Keller; President Gladys M. Rudd; First Counselor Ronnie Merrill; Secretary-Treasurer Eldruna Coon. In the picture, also, are class leaders Flora Heugly, Adelila Bagley, Maud Taylor, Ann Perkins, and other Relief Society members. Have one of the finest Relief Societies, and one of the most complete Relief Society rooms in the Church. That is our aim!" Northern States Mission Cleveland (Ohio) Branch GISTER Mary H. Stoddard, former president, Northern States Mission Relief Society, submitted a report of activities in the Cleveland Branch, written by the president, Emma Glauser: "During the months beginning with October and including May, we have our regular Relief Society meetings. Our class leaders are faithful and capable Latter-day Saint women, Our visiting teachers make their regular visits and we try to accomplish this activity 100 per cent, but, due to the long distances the teachers must travel, this is not always possible. The Relief Society women have made many visits to the sick. They have stayed in the homes and in the hospitals when it has been necessary to do so. "A special activity for the past year and a half has been to give each expectant mother in the branch a baby shower. We usually have a large attendance and enjoy ourselves together. 'These occasions have made our members feel more united and have given them a greater understanding of each other's needs and a better acquaintance with the group." Western States Mission UCILE B. MADSEN, former president, Western States Mission Relief Societies, reported' in December 1945: "As it is near the close of the year and also of my mission, I desire to make a brief report of the condition * NOTES FROM THE FIELD 429 - NORTHERN STATES MISSION, CLEVELAND (OHIO) BRANCH RELIEF SOCIETY Front row, left to right: Lyall Amott, First Counselor North Ohio District; Stella Israelson, President North Ohio District; Emma Glauser, President Cleveland Branch; Hester Henshaw, Scott; Uretta Carle; Belle Gannett: Back row, left to tight: Virginia Sno Hill; Hedwig Schneidereit; Hazel Robiso Helena Ray; May Ridges; Thelma Archer of the Relief Societies of the Westem States Mission. This year we have organized three new Societies: Fort Summer, New Mexico: Bridgeport, Nebraska; and Rapid City, South Dakota. The Clovis, New Mexico, Relief Society has been reorganized and is functioning again. We have four very fine district supervisors. Annie Ellsworth of Lubbock, Texas, supervises our East New Mexico District; Emma Allen, of Omaha, Nebraska, is in charge of our Winter Quarters District; Lucille Freeman of Grants, New Mexico, supervises the West New Mexico District; Marie Hymas has charge of the Scottsbluff and Black Hills District. All four travel regularly and report to me each week. Their splendid supervision is doing much to help the women in our outlying districts. "Wherever in the districts I have inspected the welfare assignments, I have been delighted with the First Counselor; Violet Platt, Second Counselor; Mary w; Helen Skousen; Alta Gallagher; Margaret n; Eva Pulley; Renee Wright; Cecil Bean;; Gertrude Wilstead; Virginia Howard. Workmanship, the quality, and the quantity. We have a large supply of new clothing and bedding on hand, as well as a huge chest containing cleaned and repaired used clothing. Bazaars and food sales have been held in many of our branches, in an effort to help raise building funds. In Sheridan, Wyoming, $500 was raised this year by a small group for this purpose. "Our October reports were really amazing—the best attendance record in the history of the mission. Also, I am very happy to report that nearly 100 per cent of our organizations are holding a monthly preparation meeting. I feel that the fine condition of the organizations is largely due to their holding these planning meetings for unified, purposeful work. "My work has been truly inspiring to me. It is with reluctance I leave the Relief Society women of this mission." § Work Mee ti Mash-Sack Mlagic GISTER Mary A. Hansen, President of the Uvada (Nevada) Stake Relief Society, reports an unusual sewing project which has helped to solve some of the urgent problems confronting homemakers at this time. "During these years," says Sister Hansen, "when the purchase of materials for household uses has been so difficult, many women have tumed to substitutes. One of the questions frequently asked is, "These mash sacks, what about them? I understand that sheets can be made from them. What do you do to get them white?' "Because of this interest, our stake Relief Society board used the sack project last year. We bought two hundred and seventy-five sacks from the turkey growers for ten cents apiece. Each board member took some of the sacks to bleach and turn into something useful and lovely for our bazaar. "A wonderfully easy way to bleach these paint-marked sacks into snowy white cloth is as follows: Put about eighteen sacks, which have been opened by removing the threads and shaken to remove the mash dust, into a large tub and pour a gallon of kerosene (coal oil) over them. This amount of kerosene will just dampen this many sacks. Let them soak for several hours or over night. Page 430 Then, with hot soapsuds (the more soap used the more quickly the sacks will become white), put them in the washing machine for several minutes, wring out, and wash again with another strong soapsuds. Some sacks may require three or four washings for thorough bleaching. "Ironed well, the mash sacks can be easily made into many useful items for the home—many things that we still cannot buy in the stores. These sacks can be made into beautifully decorated dish towels, tablecloths, pillowcases, sheets, boys' shorts, little girls' slips, women's pajamas, and many other necessities. "To make pillowcases, fold the sacks with the selvage at the top for the hems. This makes the cases wider. Put a crocheted edge on them, a bit of embroidery, and when they are starched and ironed they resemble linen. To make dish towels for a very special gift or for your own dishtowel drawer, buy a transfer pattern for use in making embroidery designs, or cut some applique patterns—fruits, flowers, or leaves. Even plain, with nice straight hems, you will have dish towels that will be a welcome addition to the household linen closet. These are large towels and are very easy to launder. "To make a pair of pajamas for a WORK MEETING woman, use three and a half sacks: if the pajamas are to have short sleeves. Use braid, rickrack, or some attractive print from the scrap bag for trimming the white material. "Get a pattern and make your little girls some easy-to-launder slips for school. Make some shorts for your boys. Make yourself an apron with brightly colored trimming. "To make mash sacks into lovely little crib quilts, a sack is cut into sixteen even blocks. A little kitten, lamb, dog, or child design can be o 431 stamped on each block. When the blocks are embroidered and set together with colored material and quilted, they will be proudly studied and enjoyed by the small boy or girl. These quilts, fifty-two by sixty inches in size, will provide warm covers for cold nights. "To make something useful and beautiful out of 'practically nothing' is an achievement of which to be proud. Let us help to encourage the home arts, even to the use of a bit of mash-sack magic." Note: The directions for the project ""Let's Make Dickies" which appeared in the April Magazine were submitted by Sister Larene Lindquist of the South Salt Lake Stake; and the suggestions for making the '"'Grosgrain Ribbon Handbag," published in May, were submitted by Sister Blanche Hansen White of the Boise Stake. We wish to thank these sisters for their excellent suggestions. <> LITTLE QUAILS TAKE A WALK Lydia Hall They follow where their mother goes And try to match her stride; Though they are small, they all contain Large quantities of pride. It is adventurous, this trip Which now they undertake, And one with those that history gives To Raleigh and to Drake. There are so many dangers here, And they're so soft and shy; A sharp-clawed hawk is sometimes hid In the wide, velvet sky. But as they march through sun-warmed sand, Past scanty brush and stone, They view the world with wonderment And claim it as their own. Page 432 MOTHERS OF THIS DAY Gene Romolo THE CUP Mothers of this day, the acrid cup That life so often brims and brims anew For woman's lips, is once more lifted up, Brimming with its bitterness for you; And you, whose will would dash the cup to earth, Must dnnk long draughts from it. Do pangs and fears, That you have suffered at man's hour of birth, Appear ill-recompensed in these dire years? Then, Mothers, think of her, who, weeping, stood Beside a cross and watched athwart a hill, Its shadow deep, until a lowered rood Yielded from its nails her Son grown still! Mary drained the cup of Calvary When she beheld her Son's death agony. COMPENSATION When Time shall fold Grief's veil back from each face, And you behold an ideal in a morrow That you have helped to mold, and, by God's grace, You learn that she, the mother of all sorrow, Is not the one whose son, hate crucifies, But she beneath whose heart, in embryo, A Judas lay; then, verily your eyes, Now drenched with tears, will shine with prideful glow, For never falls a hero but is bred A valiant spark that grows into a flare To illuminate the way that lies ahead— You, mothers of this day, who still must share The honor that your loyal children win In conflict to defeat a scourge of sin. TRANSFIGURATION After Calvary, transfiguration As surely comes as day succeeds the night; Blackout now is lifted, and each nation Is flooded with beneficence of light. Young mothers in the crook of their fond arms Will cradle proudly many a wee head, Assured of safety from world-clutching harms, Because another generation bled And died—a generation that you bore. Mothers of this day, because of you, the soil Will be resculptured—pattemed as before Grim-visaged men laid waste the fruits of toil, And the bird of peace again will build its nest, To brood strong fledglings under wings and breast. M: U-S'LC SPECIALLY SUITABLE FOR RELIEF SOCIETY I LOVE A LITTLE COTTAGE (O'Hara) 15 FLAG WITHOUT A STAIN (White), ee eee15 BLESS THIS HOUSE as GOD IS LOVE (Shelley).. 12 ALICE BLUE GOWN (Tierney) _..20 PEACE I LEAVE WITH YOU (Roberts)....@ Above numbers in octavo. Less 10% discount plus postage. We specialize in L. D. S. Church music. Also carry large stock for schools and home use. Dealers in Steinway and Lester pianos. Band and orchestra instruments, talking machines, records and musicians' supplies. DAYNES MUSIC CO. We solicit your patronage 57 So. Main St. Salt Lake City 1 National | BIBLES SINCE 1863 AT YOUR BOOKSTORE lhe ehieiele bl hlleltehedadtle telat lelh tbh ttt titi iit tt tt) Now—as never before—you must know how to live well on a restricted diet! To help combat starvation in Europe and Asia, America must share its bounty by eating less. To do your part more effectively—READ THIS BOOK— '*"How To Be Well" By LEAH D. WIDTSOE FILLED WITH RECIPES AND VALUABLE INFORMATION BASED ON THE NEWER KNOWLEDGE OF NUTRITION. IT SHOWS YOU AND YOUR FAMILY HOW TO ENJOY BETTER HEALTH, MORE ECONOMICALLY, THROUGH PROPER DIET. SEND FOR $900 YOUR COPY NOW.? DESERET BOOK COMPANY THE BOOK CENTER OF THE INTERMOUNTAIN WEST 44 East South Temple P. O. Box 958 Salt Lake City 10, Utah Enclosed is 8.................-.-... Send................ Copies of "How to Be Well" at $2.00 per copy. Name.......000........---....... Address.......... When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine PRODUCT OF; sERICAN FARMS UGAR PURE E GRANULATED THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Monthly publication of the Relief Seciety of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints RELIEF SOCIETY GENERAL BOARD Belle S. Spafford - - - - - - President Marianne C. Sharp - - - - - First Counselor Gertrude R. Gartf - - - -. Second Counselor Margaret C. Pickering - - - - - Secretary-Treasurer Achsa E. Paxman Edith S. Elliott Leone G. Layton Leone O. Jacobs Mary G. Judd Priscilla L. Evans Blanche B. Stoddard Velma N. Simonsen Luella N. Adams Florence J. Madsen Evon W. Peterson Isabel B. Callister Anna B. Hart Ann P. Nibley RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Editor - - - - - - - - - - Marianne C. Sharp Editorial Secretary - - - = - - - - Vesta P. Crawford General Manager - - - - - - - - - Belle S. Spafford Vol. 33 JULY 1946 No. 7 Con tents SPECIAL FEATURES Opportunities at Brigham Young University for the Youth of the Church President Howard S. McDonald 435 John H. Taylor President Richard L. Evans 439 Pioneer Stories and Incidents: Indians on the Plains President Amy Brown Lyman 440 The Settlement of Sanpete Valley—Part II Leda Thompson Jensen 441 Summer Blossoms for the Home Vesta P. Crawtord 45] Grain for the Food of Man Eva Willes Wangsgaard 454 Rag Rug Weaving in Emigration Stake....... Lillie C. Adams 457 Notes on the Authors of the Lessons Leone G. Layton 469 FICTION Faith Is a Heritage—Chapter 4 Christie Lund Coles 460 GENERAL FEATURES Sixty Years Ago 446 Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon 447 Editorial: The Pioneering Heritage Marianne C. Sharp 448 Congratulations to Sister Augusta Winters Grant 449 Notes to the Field: The Course of Study for 1946-1947 450 Notes From the Field: General Activities and Special Programs—(Continued).......-c.. Sc+--a General Secretary-Treasurer, Margaret C. Pickering 466 LESSONS AND PREVIEWS Suggestions and Instructions on the Educational Program 1946-1947 472 Theology: Church History Preview—474; The Organized Church Moves Forward................ Elder H. Wayne Driggs 476 Visiting Teachers' Messages: Our Pioneer Heritage Preview—479; Love of God President Amy Brown Lyman 481 Work Meeting: Sewing Preview—482; Choosing the Right Clothes 2.0.....2..0202022eeeeeeeeeWork Meeting Committee 484 Literature: America as Revealed in Its Literature Preview—484; Our American Ind. Ans in Literature Elder Howard R. Driggs 487 Optional Lessons in Lieu of Literature: The Gospel as a Way of Life Preview—494; Man's Pre-Earth Life Elder T. Edgar Lyon 495 Social Science: The Family in the Gospel Plan Preview—499; The Family Unit Eternal Social Science Committee 500 POETRY Only the Believer—Frontispiece Dorothy J. Roberts 433 Abundance -. Alice Morrey Bailey 449 Restoration —W........... Grace D. Terrell] 450 One Family.....2........ Scccscee ssususcssesseeeeeeeee Maude Blixt Trone 459 Acres of Wheat.........-..0.0.0- Gene Romolo 464 These Things I Know....22.2----e. Eeeeeeeeceseeceeees i, Mabel Jones Gabbott 465 Please, God uuu... Eecessccsessecssensesceccccosssezecneeseceeeee ' Edna S. Dustin 468 Desert Beauty 22. ---.---cencecccceececceecsceeeereeessceetecscensceecenceess Ethel VanHook Hopper 471 To a Great Leader.. N. Neo. Enececececcecenenecssecenenceseneeeseeceeaees Bertha M. Rosevear 504 PUBLISHED MONTHLY BY THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY Editorial and Business Offices: 28 Bishop's Buiiding, Salt Lake City 1, Utah, Phone 3-2741. Ex. 243. Subscription Price: $1.00 a year; foreign, $1.00 a year; payable in advance. Single copy, 10ce. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving both old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts. MAGAZINE CIRCULATION, 77,500 THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE ONLY THE BELIEVER Dorothy J. Roberts How vast were the dreams that raised a temple spire Above the bitter sage of wilderness; How strong were driven hearts that did not tire And yield the coming generations less Of majesty.... Rock-hewn and poplar-lined, How wise to lay the highways broad and straight For even journeying by foot and mind. How far their sight—an iron festooned gate, For unborn keepers of the dynasty, Arches their story and a city street. How true their vision, that a progeny Find wisdom, and with lips and hands repeat The prayer once kindled by celestial fire— The sculptured temple of their souls' desire. Never the cynic left a dream fulfilled, Graceful and granite in the atmosphere; But, moved by vision, the believer willed His calloused palm to chisel rock and year Into the image of his noblest dream; Only the dreamer carves its counterpart, A pointed steeple, with a silver seam Edging the pattern taken from his heart; Only the bearer of a flame of faith Etches his vision on the rough terrain. Never the skeptic leaves his futile breath Monumented over a conquered plain; Only the believer, with a dream held fast, Utters a mortared message from the past. The Cover: "Sea Gulls Over the Valley" Photograph by T. J. Howells, M. D. VOL. 33, NO. 7 JULY 1946 " HOLLYHOcks" From a Phot ograph by Grace O. Tuttle Opportunities at Brigham Young University for the Youth of the Church President Howard S. McDonald EVENTY years ago, President S Brigham Young called Karl G. Maeser to Provo to establish an institution of learning which should be fundamentally and essentially a Latter-day Saint school, a school wherein all functions would teflect fully and completely the spirit and genius of the gospel of Jesus Christ. Under the inspirational leadership of Presidents Karl G. Maeser, Benjamin Cluff, Jr., George H. Brimhall, and Franklin S. Harris, Brigham Young University has grown from a few students to the present enrollment of over thirtytwo hundred young men and women. 'The physical facilities have grown from vacant rooms in downtown business houses to an entire block of buildings on the lower campus, and to four modern buildings on the upper campus. The building program for the future points to the realization of many more needed buildings for the University in the next few years. What does Brigham Young University offer to young men and women? In the college of applied science students may obtain bachelor of science degrees in the following fields: agronomy, animal husbandry, bacteriology, horticulture, landscape architecture, mechanic arts, and home economics. This article will not permit an extensive summary of each of the courses, but the main objective in our home economics course is to teach our young people the mechanics of operating a modern home, and to instill into the hearts of every student the ideals of the Latter-day Saint home. The primary purpose of the curriculum offered in the college of arts and sciences is to meet the needs of the students who desire a broad and liberal education that will enable them to find and take their places in the complex civilization of today. Abundant opportunity is provided for those who have ambition for specialized study in engineering, medicine, or law; or for those who desire to train for political or social leadership. Students who desire to prepare for the professions will find this college filled with studies which are fundamental. The college of commerce provides training for leadership in industry and finance. Courses are so arranged that students will be given the training that will best fit them for analyzing business conditions, for efficiency in office administration, and for the demands of the industrial and financial world. The college of education is one of the professional schools of the University. Its function is the trainPage 435 436 ing of teachers. Never in the history of the world has there been such a demand for well-trained teachers. Today, four hundred thousand welltrained teachers are needed to fill the needs of the public schools in the United States. Brigham Young University meets the requirements of the Utah State Board of Education for the various grades of elementary and high school certification, and for certificates and diplomas in administration and supervision. The college of fine arts is excellently prepared to provide Opportunities to those who desire to follow these fields of study. Wellorganized courses are offered in the following fields: Art — drawing, painting, modeling, design, history, and appreciation; Music—theory, instrumental, vocal: Speech—public speaking, dramatic art, play production, speech correction, radio. It is the purpose of the division of religion to carry out the important viewpoint of a proper blending of religious and moral values with secular knowledge. When a student has completed his courses at Brigham Young University, he should not be left in doubt in regard to the restored gospel of Jesus Christ as taught by the Prophet Joseph Smith. Brigham Young University has a fully organized graduate school where students may continue their studies for advanced degrees in the subjects taught in the various colleges. The master's degree has been recognized on the campus for many years. Plans are being formulated for the establishment of the doctor of philosophy degree in theology and other fields of study. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1946 For the benefit of servicemen, a full quarter of eleven weeks will be conducted during the summer months. HE various courses offered at Brigham Young University have been very briefly summarized. Now, why do students from all parts of the world attend this University? Here are the reasons of four students: Willis Waite from San Diego, California, says: California is my home. In this State are found many of the most famous institutes of learning in the world; indeed, the educational opportunities for its youth are vast and varied. Notwithstanding these impressive facts, I found my inclinations, at that time in my life when it was necessary for me to choose at which university I should receive my education, led me to regard that belonging to my Church as the one ideally suited to my purpose and aspirations. | was not deterred by the realization that if I did become a student at Brigham Young University, it would inevitably mean I must travel some distance from my home, my loved ones, and my friends. I consequently made the whole project a matter of prayer. In the meantime, arrangements had been made for my enrollment at the University of California, but, in spite of this, without any hesitation I ultimately decided for the B. Y. U. I presented myself at the "Y" with full confidence that in so doing I was in harmony with the will of my Heavenly Father. I was immediately impressed with the unusual spirit which prevailed throughout the school. Everywhere, friendliness was the order of the day; and it not merely manifested itself among the students but in a close bond of helpful intimacy between students and faculty. From the first, the knowledge that those at the head of this institution and the professors in the classroom held the priesthood of God and had a knowledge of the gospel of Jesus Christ, which I so dearly love, gave me a wonderful feeling of confidence, a sense of deeper understanding which was not confined to the precincts of the classroom, but was a part of every social activity also. I have a grand feeling of belonging here, of being a part of the school. It offers me not only the best in academic learning, but teaches me (in contrast with so many of our universities) that there is a Father in heaven who loves his children. It teaches me the power of prayer. It teaches me, in general, the fundamentals of human happiness. The traditions of Bingham Young University have become important in my scheme of things. I have found so many things to admire, some to love, and not a few to make me exceedingly humble and thankful for my being here. Lucile Rose from New Jersey writes: What does Brigham Young University offer a young Mormon from New Jersey? I think that this question can be answered in three fields; that of education, of travel, and of everyday religious contacts. Besides the opportunity of a general education and specialized training in various fields, Brigham Young University opens one's eyes to the fact that the professors are, in themselves, remarkable people. In high school, one often felt his teachers were not real persons who had gone through similar experiences. There is much to be gained through associations with such accomplished persons as are on the Brigham Young University faculty. This school also offers everyone the equal chance to grow and to develop his talents. Each person may expand his personality in a school where money and clothes are not of first-rate importance. There is a constant cry for talent, and organizations like Lambda Delta Sigma, which are open to everyone, are a good way to develop one's talents. Second, Brigham Young University offers one from the East the opportunity to travel, not only on the journey here, but also during the week-ends and vacation periods. One becomes acquainted with many grand people who live here and who are only too glad to show you their communities. Some of the most beautiful land in the country is here in the West: national parks, mountains, and awe-inspiring canyons. These travels help one to know and understand the problems of other peoples. Thus, one's scope and culture are broadened. The third field, that of everyday religious contacts, is to me of utmost importance. Here, at Brigham Young University, we have the opportunity of observing and living with the Latter-day Saints in Zion. The lifelong friendships that are made with other Latter-day Saints from all parts of the country—some even from outside the country—are invaluable. In a school such as this the people are naturally more friendly because they have so much in common. Brigham Young University is often spoken of as a matrimonial school. This is very true and is easily comprehended. Our religion is quite different in many aspects from any other. Therefore, it is of much importance to us as individuals to marry someone who believes as we do. To this university come Latter-day Saints from everywhere, many hoping to meet the person with whom they would like to live for time and all eternity. With so much in common, it is only natural that many meet these partners and marry them. In conclusion, I would like to say that I believe that one's religion is put to more of a test here than in a place where there are very few Latter-day Saints. When in such a location one realizes that to the rest of the people he represents Mormonism and that he is watched every moment. As a Catholic friend of mine, who is attending the B. Y. U., feels that it is his mission so to live, so do we Latter-day Saints in the East feel that we are fulfilling an important mission by our very acts and deeds. Unfortunate as it may be, the majority of people in this world still judge by stereotypes. Therefore, we must be good examples, for we are told that not only shall we be accountable for our own deeds but also that we who possess a greater knowledge shall also be held responsible if we are stumbling blocks for anyone else. Here in Utah, one's religion is taken for granted, as so many of the people are Latter-day Saints. One does OPPORTUNITIES AT BRIGHAM YOUNG UNIVERSITY 437 438 not have to defend himself in discussions or stand up for his beliefs as often as in other states. Therefore, many Jack 2 good knowledge of the gospel, something which every Latter-day Saint should have. Attending Brigham Young University has been an experience which I shall never forget. I only wish that I could thank all those who have been responsible for it. Moana Ballif from Provo, Utah, says: I came to Brigham Young University because: First, I believe the gospel of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints and I had a keen desire to be in a school where my education would be guided by the standards it teaches. I wanted to come to a university which was founded and developed so that young people could learn their religion while they were learning other facts in other fields. Second, I wanted to live at home while I got my education. The adjustment to college life is difficult enough without having to adjust to a completely new home environment and living habits. The advantages of living at home with sympathetic and understanding parents are many and varied, and constitute a very valid reason for staying at home for my college education. Third, it is doubtful if there is any other campus in the world where a person can associate with people of uniform backgrounds who have been taught a recognition of the value of high moral codes. I believed that here at B. Y. U. I could find students with whom I would be proud to associate and from whom I could select friends and companions. Fourth, I believed that here on this campus I could find men and women expertly trained and brilliant in their fields under whom I could study. Here, education was for the asking only, and with a little effort on my part I could come as near the ultimate in cultural education as anywhere in the United States. Here, I could find a philosophy and an educa tion within my grasp. Here, I could study with professors who could lift me into the realms somewhere near the stars. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1946 Fifth, I decided that here was a school rich in a tradition which I wanted to have. Here, social life was given consideration on the campus. And, most important, the social program was filled with activities of a high standard in which | could participate and enjoy without being forced to decide between lowering, my standards or ignoring social life. Sixth, and finally, this was a school that I could help to build. It was a growing school on_ the road to unlimited development. Here was an institution dedicated to the principle of eternal progression, and, I thought, with all humtiity, that maybe I, too, could add a little bit to that pathway of eternal progression. I wanted to be one of the students who made positive the work of the men who founded this university with faith that others in the world might see our good works and realize the value of the gospel and what it means. Edith Russell, from London, England, writes: Oxford — remote and unassailable. Study—laborious striving to understand the obscure; without help, save that of prayer; without purpose, save that of self-vindication. A dread of ignorance and a passionate urge to emulate grteatness. Absurd longings. Futile counting of pennies to buy the printed heritage of other men's brains. And then, democracy spilling over the ramparts of America, invading English shores. Opportunity. The distant University of Brigham Young opening wide its doors. Incredible. The consummate understanding and provision of God. 1 love it all; the quiet symphony of the great library; the muted music of struggle and achievement; the solemn tenor of slow-moving minds and the stimulating lilt of eager brains. And here, too, one may estimate with clearer eyes the noble heritage to which he is heir; feel the weight of it; experience the thrill of it; somewhere find the courage to accept it; and apply himself, vigorously, to carry it in his own two hands and lay it like balm on the wounds of the world. John H. Taylor President Richard L. Evans Of the First Council of Seventy JOHN H. TAYLOR LIFETIME career of service to the Church ended on Tuesday, May 28th, 1946, when death came to Elder John H. Taylor of the First Council of Seventy as he was standing before a class of misslonaries at the Mission Home jin Salt Lake City. Six months before, President Taylor had had his first Warning of a heart ailment, but at the time of his passing, he was again performing Many of his duties. Including Participation as a member of the Missionary Committee. Death came quietly, peacefully, mercifully, as he Paused during his 'nstructions to the missionaries and asked to be excused. Those were the last words he spoke, and one of the Church's distinguished sons, one of its General Authorities, had gone to another field of labor, after nearly seventy-one years of consistent, interesting and earnest living. Funeral services for Brother Taylor were held in the Assembly Hall cn Temple Square at 12:30 P. M., Friday, May 31st, conducted by President J. Reuben Clark, Jr. In the absence of President George Albert Smith, who was In Mexico. President David O. McKay, Elder Stephen L Richards, and Elder Richard L. Evans were the speakers. Brother John Taylor's missionary Career included service in Great Britain from 1896 to 1898. After his retum and mattiage, to Rachel Grant, eldest child of President Heber J. Grant, he attended the Chicago College of Dental Surgery, being graduated in 1901, and immediately thereafter became a practising dentist in Salt Lake City. This profession he interrupted to answer another call as a missionary, this lime to the Netherlands. 1907 to 1909, leaving his wife and two young children at home. After this second mission he did Post-graduate work, and resumed dental practice, but later gave up his successful profession to enter the full-time service of the Church, becoming a member of the General Board of the Young Men's Mutual Improvement Association in 1911, Continued on Page 465 n iw "Giga 57. Pioneer Stories and Incidents Indians on the Plains President Amy Brown Lyman [This is the first in a series of true pioneer incidents to be published by The Relief Society Magazine in honor of the 1947 Utah Centennial celebration —Ed.} MONG the many problems confronting the Mormon pioneers, both on the plains and afterward in "the Valley," were those connected with the Indians. Notwithstanding the precautions taken by the pioneers, and their desire to deal fairly with the Indians, many trying situations presented themselves. On their part, the Indians naturally resented the white people and, to add to the difficulties, there was enmity among the various Indian tribes. While the Indians on the plains, mostly Pawnees and Sioux, were apparently friendly to the pioneers, they were mercenary, and the temptation for them to steal horses and cattle was often too great for them to resist. Their method was to follow the pioneer tram quietly and stealthily, and, in the darkness of night, to creep in among the animals, cut their ropes, and foment a stampede. In most cases the animals would scatter in all directions, and the Indians usually succeeded in making off with some of them. In the Journal or the pioneer John Brown, we read: Next day we... Reached Ash Hollow near the Platte. We camped near the brush in the hollow after dark... I came on the second watch that night. The first guard told us to keep a sharp lookout. The mules were very uneasy. One man discovered something near where a Page 440 mule was staked, and threw a bone at it, supposing it to be a dog, but it ran off like a man half bent. About this time I discovered a horse going loose across the corral. I went and examined the rope which was about six feet long. I felt the end of it and pronounced it cut and immediately alarmed the camp and tumed out all hands. We found several horses cut loose and one mare and two colts missing. We kept everything close till morning when a search was made and a trail up the hollow in the sand showed where the three animals had been driven off, and nine pairs of moccasin tracks in the trail were found.... Six men followed the trail that day but could find nothing (Autobiography of John Brown, page 8). On the return trip of the pioneers across the plains (September 20, 1847) at LaBorte in the Black Hills, pioneer Brown wrote: About an hour by sun we went to drive in our animals to start our journey. Brother G. A. Smith and myself had got about halfway to the horses when the guard gave the alarm that the Indians had charged upon the herd and we could hear them yelling and firing their guns. We, not having our arms with us, ran back to get them. I got my rifle and started back to the herd but had not gone more than 100 yards when I met the Indians, who were coming on both sides of the river and over the hills—some two or three hundred in number. We were soon mixed up and the greatest confusion prevailed for a few minutes. Our animals were all secured but eleven head which the Indians succeeded in running off at the beginning. No one was hurt during the whole struggle. They took all my (Continued on page 463) The Settlement of Sanpete Valley Leda Thompson Jensen Former Member, Relief Society General Board PART II HE early communities that dotted Sanpete Valley from north to south were settled by groups of converts to the Church selected by Brigham Young. He used great judgment and wisdom in the selection of these groups of people to settle different localities, considering carefully their backgrounds, aptitudes, and previous training in connection with the possibilities of the region they were to settle. Most of the fifty families sent to Manti in 1849 were from the northeastern part of the United States or from England. In 1850, however, apostle Erastus Poe SS MS ERS. PSS Photograph by Grace O. Tuttle Snow was sent to Europe to open missions in the Scandinavian countries, and many converts from the "Northland" soon immigrated to the "Valleys of the Mountains." The altitude of Sanpete Valley is much higher than Salt Lake Valley, and hence, colder. Sanpete was, and always has been, essentially an agricultural section. When, in 1853, the first immigrants from Denmark arrived in Salt Lake City, they were sent on to Sanpete. These people, coming from countries where farming and cattle raising were the principal industries, understood how to meet the conditions in Sanpete ValMOUNT BALDY, NEAR THE HEAD OF TWELVE MILE CANYON This lofty summit, one of the most beautiful in Sanpete Valley, overlooks a wide area of scenic interest and rises above the plateau grazing lands, east of Gunnison, Utah. Page 441 442 ley; and it was not long before they built comfortable homes for themselves and roomy barns for their cattle. These Scandinavian converts, many of whom had traveled across the plains in the handcart companies, were now in the majority in Sanpete Valley, particularly in Kphraim, and several of the towns were affectionately called "Little Denmark." These hardy saints brought with them a knowledge of cconomy, conservation, and husbandry, a valuable contribution to the Valley commonwealth. At first, the Danish pioneers were somewhat misunderstood by the earlier settlers, but the young people soon became interested in one another and began to intermarry. The barriers of nationality were forgotten by the people of the second generation; and all worked together RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1946 side by side, excellent citizens, loyai to their country and to the Church which had brought them together in a new land. No matter from what countries the Utah pioneers came, no matter what traditions of the old countries they brought with them, no matter what customs they had known before, they were all interested in working for the same objectives. Their first concern was to till the soil that life might be sustained, and to build homes that their fami. Ies might be comfortably sheltered. The philosophy of community life held by the Church, and the natural conditions of the soil, the water supply, and the common enemy, the Indians—all these forces, working together, produced a united front, strong and courageous. By 1860, the larger settlements— Manti, Spring City, Ephraim, CUTTING THE STONE FOR THE MANTI 'TEMPLE Out of an unbroken terrain was hewn the oolite stone to build the edifice and the protecting wall, BUILDING THE FOUNDA Mount PI; Fairview, and F Ountain had all been OCated g. 4S quarried Mountains, expert. St, € used for the b = Indianola, Mil | burn, Chest, Sterlj easant, Moroni, Gunnjpete Valle 4 georcpdecne fs ch rey ath is. Abs THE MANTI TABERNACLE (1890) The women, dressed in Danish costumes, are assembled to take part in the celebration welcoming the railroad. Note the teplica of a railroad engine near the top of the building. The evergreen decorations on each side were designed and contributed by the various Sanpete Valley towns. Manti Hill and prophesied that a temple should one day stand thereon. Heber C. Kimball, one of President Young's companions on the trip, further testified that this temple should be built of stone quarried from the very heart of the hill. More than twenty years later, April 25, 1877, President Young dedicated this temple site. With his cane, he indicated the spot on which the southwest corner of the building should stand. Faith and perseverance characterized the people in this great undertaking. The saints donated liberally of their scanty funds and work on the temple was donated freely, following the advice of Brigham Young when he said to the bishops: "Now bishops, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1946 if any person should inquire what wages are to be paid for work done on this temple, let the answer be 'Not one cent.''"" From the unbroken terrain was hewn the oolite to build the edifice and the protecting wall. The best the people had to give in skill and industry was put into this great temple, and in eleven years it was completed. On the spring morning of May 20, 1888, the dedicatory services began. 'These services were repeated on the three following days in order to accommodate the many saints who desired to attend the sacred dedication. Although schools were established as soon as possible after the settlements were founded, and, during the winter months, men and women gifted in the art of teaching were called, or, by choice, acted as teachers, the early days in Sanpete Valley did not provide many educational opportunities. President Canute Peterson and other community leaders felt that there was a great need among the people for a school which would provide training beyond the grammar grades. The pioneers believed that their children should have educational advantages near their homes so that they might become leaders in their own communities. In 1888, the Sanpete Stake Academy was established at Ephraim, and, although it was, in the beginning, a school comparable to our modem high schools, it served as an institution of higher learning. Not only did its students come from all over Sanpete County, but from other counties as well. The beginnings of this Academy were humble, but through faith and persistence the school prospered and grew, and THE SETTLEMENT OF SANPETE VALLEY 445 Presidents of the Manti Temple: Daniel H. Wells, Anthon H. Lund, John D. La McAllister, Lewis Anderson, Robert D) Young, and Lewis R. Anderson. The enthusiasm and spirituality of its was erected and the old one torn students were sources of strength down. That broadened the horizon for the The first means of communicapeople of the Valley. This college, tion with the outside world, aside originally a Latter-day Saint insti. From trips made on horseback or by tution, is now ag State-supported horse or oxen-drawn conveyances, junior college, and stands 4S a monucame in December 1866, when the ment to the Vision and the deDeseret Telegraph Line was comtermination of those early pioneers, pleted to Manti. This placed SanConstruction of a courthouse was pete in direct communication with begun in 1864. The original buildthe capital city, and gave the farmers ing consisted of one room, built of and stockmen valuable information adobe, and plastered on the outside. On the Prices of grain and cattle, In 1873, an additional toom, built thus advising them when to start by of stone, was added, and a porch team or horseback to market their built on the west side. Additional products. Improvements were made later and In the early 70's, the Valley the building was in constant use was connected with the outside until 1937, when 4 new building (Continued on Page 464) Sixty Years Ago Excerpts from the Woman's Exponent July 1 and July 15, 1886 For THE RIGHTS OF THE WomeEN OF ZION AND THE Rights OF THE WOMEN or ALL NATIONS ETHICS OF WOMAN'S REST: Let every woman who finds her vital forces failing, who is growing nervous, whose chief longing is for rest of mind and body, who begins to feel that life is not worth the living, stop now and here. Cut off all expenditure of effort that is not an absolute necessity, and curtail that necessity as much as possible.... Remember this: It is important that you should keep a reserve of physical power on hand for future draughts, as that you should provide in a financial way for sickness, accidents, and declining years. —Emily Bouton * * * *% TRUTHFUL REASONINGS: God, our Heavenly Father, is the great law giver or ruler over this planet. He has declared himself Lord of lords and King of kings. He at various periods of time has dethroned kings and mighty governments, and wrought marvelous changes in the destinies of nations. God has chosen agents to usher in His dispensations and decrees; but He is just, and before He takes an action to accomplish His purposes He holds out offers of mercy and salvation, and pleads with His children for many years. —M. A. M. Pratt = * * or FROM TEBBSDALE, UT AH: We have a Relief Society organized here, presided over by Sister Hannah LeFevre, and though few in numbers, we consider it a pleasure as well as a duty to meet together in the interest of woman's rights and privileges, to exchange ideas and sentiments, and thus cultivate our minds and enlarge our abilities.... We take the Exponent and learn from it the spirit of the times and the advancement of woman, and we are deeply interested in the instruction it contains.... The most of us have large families and the consequent duties engross most of our time; having our clothing neat but plain, our food simple but wholesome and appetizing, we would be enabled to spare a little time in which to devote to intellectual pleasures. —Susie Tebbs, Secretary of Relief Society Se & = OUR OWN NATAL DAY All hail! To the Flag of our Country Afloat in the soft summer air, A chord in the heart of each patriot Is touched by this emblem so fair. —Mary A. Farnsworth x * = * CROWING OLD: Oh, you who are young, rejoice in your springtime of life. Not alone for its butterflies and breezes, but for its golden opportunities to prepare for a bountiful harvest when autumn shall come. Twine your rosy garlands and forbid not vour light feet to dance and vour dewy lips to sing in thankfulness for vour happy lot. But take heed that you do not blindly follow pleasure regardless of duty. - - - Write it down in the sealed book that there ls no more conclusive testimony to a wasted life than repinings over vamshed youth, nor any truer record of a wise and well-spent life than cheerfully, gracefully growing old.—Selected Page 446 Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon N March 1946, Anna Eleanor Roosevelt, wife of the late President Roosevelt, presented to President Truman, for the American people, beautiful and historic Hyde Park, the birthplace of her husband, Franklin D. Roosevelt. WILHELMINA of Holland, sixty-six years old, and queen since she was ten, mingles with all types of citizens and probably knows more about her people than does anyone else in her country. She dresses plainly, and, like her subjects, received only half a ton of coal last winter. BEF ORE the war, a_ well-to-do English woman, in a journalistic plea for more practical education, told of the helplessness of her "class," untrained for household tasks. Throughout Europe, generally, manual labor has been considered unbefitting the "higher classes." Madame de Gaulle, wife of the retiming. Provisional president _ of France, is one example of countless women who have met the hard-work challenge heroically. During the war years in France, and in England where she was a refugee, she did all her own housework and made the dresses for her young daughters, besides. Giving community service. — MADAME pE GOUIN, wife of "'" the new president of France, is known as one of the best furniture designers in her country. Le | 4 ESS and Margaret Truman, wife and daughter of President Truman, received some public commendation for taking fruit juice in preference to the prevalent alcoholic drinks at a reception in Washington. ERTHA A. KLEINMAN, wellknown poet of Mesa, Arizona, recently received a letter from King Carl Christian of Denmark, conveying his thanks for her ode written and dedicated to Denmark at the close of the war. N 'THE first post-war International Congress of \WWomen, which was held in Paris, women from thirtyfive countries participated. ABEL HENDRICKS POND of Richmond, Utah, has been honored as "The American Mother of Utah for 1946" by the American Mothers' Committee of the Golden Rule Foundation. Mrs. Pond _received many visitors and manv letters of congratulation. A box of flowers and a letter were received from Acting Governor E. E. Monson on behalf of the State of Utah. The Benson Stake Relief Society presented Sister Pond with a lovely bouquet in appreciation for her nineteen years as a stake board member and her four vears as counselor to Relief Society Stake President Leona R. McCarey. Page 447 CQ— > EDITORIAL ~~ 'VOL. 33 JULY 1946 She Pioneering Heritage THE word "pioneer" usually symbolizes the successful surmounting of physical obstacles and hardships, the performance of deeds of courage and heroism. One pictures a long line of covered wagons lumbering heavily, clumsily, over rough, uneven ground. One hears the rumble of slowly-tuming, creaking wheels, the dull thud of oxen hoofs, the crack of whips and the sound of raised voices, barely distinguishable through the thick, enveloping dust which seems to hang motionless, half obliterating the wagon train in the stifling, noonday heat. Or one may call to mind a more poignant scene—one in which the company of pioneers moves even more slowly, more laboriously, as human beings pull and push rudely built handcarts, wearily, haltingiy, agonizingly trying to keep moving by counting the steps taken, by counting the revolutions of the large wheels, seeking to refresh the mind with the remembrance of flowered hedgerows, of cool, flowing waters, far from the hot, parched plains stretching endlessly before them. Gone, however, are these pioneer modes of travel, and, in their place, today a low-slung, streamlined car races over that same road, now smoothed and graded, and, high in the air above, a plane spans the horizon in a matter of minutes. When one compares the two epochs there would seem to be litPage 448 tle in common between the pioneer folk of that earlier period and the folk of the present time. These contrasting pictures, however, do not take into account the woman seated in the covered wagon, the woman trudging along with the handcart, the woman driving the speeding car, and the woman in the plane. Human frailties and human strengths are found in each of the four women. Each passes through the same fundamental experiences —birth and death, sorrow and anguish, happiness and joy. The type of home in which one lives, the mode of travel one uses, are not the deciding factors in whether or not one yields to temptation or overcomes evil and leads a life of righteousness. That is dependent upon the manner in which one meets disappointments and sorrows, on the inward growth one achieves through the exercise of faith, of moral courage, and of love. Ninety-nine years have passed since the entrance of the first pioneers into the valleys of the mountains. Those pioneers have all departed from this scene of existence with their great work accomplished. Unknown now are the physical perils and dangers of that earlier day; however, the spirit of pioneering continues to burn bright in Latter-day Saints who have had it bred in their bones and sinews by the strength and power of the gospel. EDITORIAL Latter-day Saints today pioneer in living according to Church standards in the midst of Babylon. Amid an orgy of waste and extravagance, they pioneer in frugality and saving. During an era of curtailed production and destruction, they pioneered in bounteous production and conservation. While idleness is being rewarded, they pioneer in earning their needs. At a time when evil forces strive to loosen and weaken family solidarity and family responsibility toward each other, they pioneer in loving care for their own, and even are setting forth 449 into an uncharted land—seeking unselfishly to become their brothers' keepers. By ever following the call of divinely inspired leaders, Latter-day Saints will always be pioneers in traveling along a straight and narrow path, and as each generation emerges from the mountains of deception and worldly sophistries into the great valley of righteousness and the kingdom of heaven, it will pass on to its children the great pioneering heritage of its noble forefathers. M. C. S$. —> Congratulations to Sister Augusta Winters G. Rant HE General Board of Relief Society, on behalf of its members in all the stakes and missions of the Church, takes this opportunity to congratulate Sister Augusta Winters Grant on her ninetieth birthday, July 7, 1946. It is with great appreciation for her fine example of Latter-day Saint womanhood, and for her years of service to the Church, that we pay tribute at this time. We are mindful of her devotion to our beloved President Heber J. Grant; we are grateful for the pattern of motherhood which she has set before us; and we rejoice that we are all heirs to the breadth and beauty of her spirit. Sister Grant, we wish you many happy returns of the day, and may you enjoy many more years in which to contribute the graciousness and the love which radiate from you to the women of the Church. A o> ABUNDANCE Alice Morrey Bailey I find my life is filled with friends Too willing, far, to share, Who keep me ever in their debt— With God, who answers prayer, And, from my foolish asking, Gives too much for me to bear. WYlotes. 10 THE FIELD New Courses of Study for 1946-47 N presenting the courses of study for 1946-47, the General Board calls to the attention of Relief Society stake and mission officers two new courses which are being offered for optional use. The course on "Sewing" is intended for study on work meeting day by any ward or branch Relief Society, all or any part of whose members desire to learn the fundamentals of sewing. Such a course is offered in order to give every member of Relief Society an opportunity to learn how to sew, under helpful supervision. It is left optional with the individual ward or branch whether or not to undertake such a study, and also to set the time on work meeting day when the course is to be presented. In addition to the value which will accrue to individual Relief Society members from such a course, it is the hope of the General Board that the "Sewing" lessons will improve the styling, sizing, and sewing of clothing for the Church Welfare assignments. It should be kept in mind that the first responsibility for sewing to be done on work meeting day is to complete the Church Welfare budget assignment. This "Sewing" course should not in any way interfere with necessary Welfare or Relief Society sewing, = members who do not desire to participate in the "Sewing" course should not be asked to refrain from other sewing during the period of time devoted to the development of the monthly lesson on "Sewing." Wards and branches which adopt this course of study for use on work meeting day will offer to Latter-day Saint women a service which is fundamental to the responsibility of Relief Society; namely, to aid the women of the Church in improving their homemaking skills. By becoming proficient in the art of sewing, Relief Society members will prepare themselves to make clothing for their own families. The course "The Gospel as a Way of Life" is presented for optional use in stakes and missions which desire to study these lessons in place of the literature course "America as Revealed in Its Literature." The final decision as to which course a particular branch or ward will study, will rest with the respective Relief Society stake president or mission Relief Society president in consultation with the ward or branch Relief Society president. For further information in regard to these and the rest of the educational courses for 1946-47, see "Les-. Son Department" pages 472 to 504 in this issue of the Magazine. RESTORATION Grace D. Terrell I thank thee Lord, for the silent night, For its restful, healing powers, It brings new hope to the souls of men, New life, through its quiet hours. Summer Blossoms for the Home Vesta P. Crawford of blossoms in great variety of form and color. The garden is more brilliant than a Persian carpet. Long spikes of gladioli, flaming marigolds, radiant dahlias, rule the summer days. To lend a softer note, ruffled petunias, fragrant sweet peas, and cool, blue delphiniums decorate the borders. Summer days are marked by the petals of phlox, the scent of old-fashioned stocks, the spicy aroma of pinks and carnations. So lovely and so plentiful are the summer blossoms, that the homeAoC Bier bestows her wealth Photograph courtesy W. Atlee Burpee - "MAYLING" MARIGOLDS An unusual arrangement of the lovely flowers named for Madame Chiang Kai Shek. Note the effective use of the white china figurines. Maker may bring many bouquets into the house. Each day the mantel may be decorated in a different way —yellow snapdragons with white dianthus for a summer morning, blue and white bellflowers for another time. The dining table may be made beautiful with a centerpiece of rose-colored hollyhocks: ay te a floating in a crystal bowl; or, perhaps, tray. Pansies, begonias, and the FLUFFY" CALENDULAS arranged in satin-petaled verbenas provide excel- "GLOWING GOLD" and "ORANGE Page 45] Photograph courtesy W. Atlee Burpee a dark brown wooden bowl against a creamcolored lattice screen. Yellow water lilies in a cream-colored lent arrangements for the low table or bookcase. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1946 Photograph —— Atlee Burpee "GLOWING GOLD" CALENDULAS IN CRESCENT ARRANGEMENT The cream-colored figurine at the right makes an effective color contrast. The tray is polished wood lined with metal. The flowers are fastened to a heavy piece of curved wire. The stem of each separate blossom is cut long enough to reach the water in the metal container. Photograph courtesy W. Atlee Burpee GIANT RUFFLED SWEET PEAS IN TINTS OF BLUE AND PINK These colors are especially beautiful against the pale pink of the fluted bowl. SUMMER BLOSSOMS FOR THE HOME Photograph courtesy W. Atlee Burpee LTS Aer sore. = = In the midst of so much radiant color, it is possible that the homemaker may forget some of the requirements for effective flower arrangements. She may use too many different kinds of flowers in the same bouquet; she may mass the blossoms too closely together; or she may not remember that beauty can be achieved by varying the design. Many of the summer flowers are too rich in color to be used without some type of contrast. White flowers, combined with colors, not only accentuate the radiance of the more ornate blossoms, but they also give to the arrangement a look of cool- "HONEYCOMB" 453 MARIGOLDS '? PICT The white china shell bowl is placed on a white paper doily with a "bamboo" mat undemeath. The figurines, used to accent the marigold arrangement, are white geese with brown and yellow feathers. The blossoms are held in place by a steel "frog" in the center of the bowl. Ness and a light and graceful touch. Gypsophila (baby's breath), white daisies, and "snow on the mountain" are some of the daintier flowers that help to make summer bouquets attractive. Many homemakers use _lightcolored figurines to accent the deep tones in summer flower arrangements. White vases and bowls, white doilies and table mats, also provide a pleasing contrast. Experiment with blossoms, containers, figurines, backgrounds, mats, and doilies, until you have obtained the flower arrangements that make you happy and add loveliness to your home. Grain for the Food of Man Eva Willes Wangsgaard HAT is earth's loveliest fraW grance? According to a sailor who occupied our blue room during his interim between Farragut Naval Training Station and Harvard, it is the smell of baking bread.. A French baker spends many months learning the art of breadmaking, yet, with all our modern advantages, it is an art that any willing housewife can learn and detive a rich satisfaction in its practice. It is a comfortable feeling to know that there is good bread in the breadbox and fresh milk in the refrigerator. Cereal grains have been cultivated since early times. Among the Greeks and Romans, the cultivation of grain was a highly developed art. Such industry encouraged the settlement of towns, since grain is a food easily stored, and, without stored food, people lived as nomads following the game they used as food, or moving to better pastures for their sheep and cattle. The earliest cultivated grains 'vere barley, wheat, and millet. Oats and rye came relatively late in man's development. Women took part in the farming and grinding as well as the breadmaking. Breadmaking has come a long way since the primitive peoples stored grain in crude, earthen jars and ate it raw or parched, or ground it into a coarse meal which they mixed with water and pressed into flat cakes which were dried in the sun or baked in the ashes. Such food has been Page 454 found among the ruins of the old Swiss lake dwellers and in the Egyptian tombs. Some people leavened _ their bread as long ago as 4,000 years. Their yeast was derived from aitborne yeast spores. In the making of flour, the Romans progressed to the use of circular mills or querns operated by slave labor or beasts of burden. They also produced several grades of flour by means of sieving or bolting. Later, water wheels were used. The first querns were conical in shape, but were gradually changed to flattened stones, and these continued in general use throughout Europe and this country until 1870. With the advent of steam power and electric power, revolving pairs of rollers were invented and came into general use. This made possible the release of more of the floury kernel unmixed with fine bran and the germ, because of the more gradual breaking of the grains. Roller milling enabled the millers, especially of our Middle West, to make hard wheat into high quality flours. The milling of soft wheats, largely used for cake and pastry flours, was also improved by this process. And so these ancient arts of handling grain as part of the household tasks have developed into a highly technical modern industry. Maize, or Indian corn, sometimes called field corn, is considered native to the Americas. Traces of this grain have been unearthed in ancient Peruvian tombs, and the Indians in GRAIN FOR THE FOOD OF MAN many parts of the two continents cultivated it extensively. Our Pilgrim Fathers would have starved had they not been taught the virtues of corn as a food and been helped in its cultivation by the Indians of New England. Over one-half of the world's cultivated land is used for growing grain of one species or another. About four fifths of the earth's inhabitants prefer wheat or rice because these cereals are palatable, mild in flavor, and blend most successfully with other foods. Only for occasional use are the grains of stronger flavor, such as corn and rye; or they are used by peoples who have these grains in abundance, and to whom the more palatable ones are unavailable. The study of breadmaking is of no slight importance, and deserves more attention than it receives. Considering its great value, it is unnecessary, and even wrong, to find poor bread on any table. Wheat flour is best adapted for breadmaking as it contains gluten in the proper proportion to make the spongy dough necessary to retain the gas bubbles which create its lightness. Except for its slight deficiency in fat, wheat bread is a perfect food. It is this deficiency which led to the spreading of butter on our bread. Next to wheat flour, rye has the necessary gluten, but it is better used in combination with wheat flour. Corn, also, may be used in such combination. BREAD is made by mixing flour to a dough with a quantity of milk, or water and milk, or just water, along with salt and yeast. Sugar is often added to speed the rising. The mixture is kneaded until all in- 455 gredients are blended into a smooth, resilient dough. Here is my stand-by recipe, which, if followed carefully, will produce bread of good texture and appetizing flavor. Yeast Bread 2 sifters all-purpose flour (sifted before measuring ), 1 qt. Whole milk, scalded and allowed to cool to tepid 2 tablespoons salt Ye cup sugar 1/8 Ib. Shortening 2 cakes brewer's yeast. Dissolve yeast in the warm milk into which the sugar has been stirred. It will tise and form a foamy mass on top. Sift salt and flour into a large bread pan and stir in the liquid gradually until all the flour has been moistened. Then knead until smooth and even. Well-kneaded dough will not stick to the pan unless it is allowed to become too warm. Cover, and wrap in a large dish towel or other cloth to help keep an even temperature. Stand the pan in a corner protected from drafts. It should double its bulk in three hours. If it is inconvenient to handle at this point, a little longer nsing will not spoil the results. Push down and knead again thoroughly. This breaks up the bubbles and distributes the carbon dioxide evenly. Let rise again until double in bulk, about one hour. Push down, divide into three equal portions, mold carefully into loaves of uniform shape and size, place in well-greased loaf tins and set in protected place to rise. This time it must be watched carefully to prevent over nsing which spoils the appearance and quality of the loaves and slices. While it rises, preheat the oven to 420°. When the loaves have risen even with the top of the loaf tins, or just below, place in the oven, turn the temperature to 375° or 4oo°, and bake fifty minutes or one hour, depending upon the size of the loaves. This process may be considerably shortened by using more yeast, and the yeast cakes now available may be used without imparting an unsavory, yeasty taste to the bread. Also, the second rising may be omitted, but the handling of bread is 456 like the rearing of a child, if you want the finest results, don't try to hurry the process. This recipe may be used for the making of whole-wheat bread by substituting whole-wheat flour for half of the all-purpose flour. Also, brown sugar or molasses or honey may be used instead of white sugar in whole-wheat bread. Corn meal may be used for part of the flour, also, but since com has very little gluten, it should never exceed one third of the bulk. Raisins or finely chopped nuts may be kneaded into the dough either at the first kneading or, if only one loaf of "fancy" bread is desired, the fruit or nuts may be kneaded into the loaf at the time of molding. This takes time and patience, though, to get the materials evenly distributed in the resilient mixture. Part of the dough may be reserved for rolls, either plain or sweet. Roll the dough flat and cut with a biscuit cutter. Divide each biscuit partially by pressing the back of the knife across the middle of the dough. Put a spot of shortening on one half and fold the other over, pressing the edges firmly. Place on baking sheet to rise and put a cloth over the dough. If sweet rolls are desired, spread the rolled dough with shortening and sprinkle with sugar and cinnamon. Roll up like a blind and slice. Lay the slices on a baking sheet and Jet rise. These take longer in the rising than either bread or plain rolls. Rolls of both types should be baked in a hotter oven than that used for bread, 375° to 400° F. Before rolling, the dough for sweet rolls may be enriched by RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1946 kneading a beaten egg into it, but the rolls are quite satisfactory with-° out. Also, excellent bread may be made with warm water instead of milk, or with potato water, or with a liquid of half milk and half water, and without the use of shortening. However, if no shortening is used, a soft crust may be obtained by brushing the loaves with butter about ten minutes before removal from the oven. Golden Corn Bread 34 cup corn meal 114 cup flour Y% cup sugar 5 teaspoons baking powder Y teaspoon salt 1 cup milk 1&8 1 or 2 tablespoons melted shortening Mix and sift dry ingredients; add milk, egg, well-beaten, and shortening. Bake in shallow greased pan in hot oven (400° F.) twenty minutes. Corn Bread (sweetened with molasses) 1 cup corn meal ¥% cup flour 3/2 teaspoons baking powder 1 teaspoon salt %4 cup molasses ¥% cup milk 1 beaten egg 1 tablespoon melted shortening Mix and bake as for Golden Corn Bread. Now, when famine conditions prevail over much of the world, when a large part of American wheat must be exported, it is more important than ever that we waste no cereals of any kind and that we use such substitutes as corn meal and other available cereals. About onethird mashed potatoes may be substituted for part of the flour in standard recipes. Rag Rug Weaving in Emigration Stake, Salt Lake City Lillie C. Adams President, Emigration Stake Relief Society This account of Tug weaving as carried out in Emigration Stake is typical of that activity in other stakes having a rug Weaving assignment as part of their Church Wel. Fare budget for 1946. HE Welfare assignment given Jl Emigration Stake Relief Society in January, included the weaving of 240 rag rugs. This was an innovation, a new experience. For this reason it seemed to us a rather difficult assignment. However, if we recall the achievements of our pioneer mothers, we will always be spurred on to enter into new fields of activity, ' In the accomplishment of any of our Welfare projects, the first question to be asked is, "Is there a need?" € next question may well be, "Does the Lord Tequire it at our hands?" These two questions in regard to rug weaving were answered in the affirmative, because our Prophets today, led by God, have asked us to support wholeheartedly the Welfare Plan. Another requisite for the accomplishment of a project should be a prayerful attitude. Our prayers should be: "Father, we are willing to work. Show us the way, for we know the light comes to all who carnestly seek thee." We can be assured of his supporting and sustaining influence, for have we not read in I Nephi 3:7 I will go and do the things which the Lord hath commanded, for I know that the Lord giveth no commandments unto the children of men, save he shall prepare a way for them that they may accomplish the thing which he commandeth them. Abraham Lincoln believed that it took both faith and works for any worthwhile accomplishment, for he said, "I pray as though all depended upon God, but I work as though everything depended upon myself." Now, may we tell you the procedure we followed in accomplishing our project of Tag Tug weaving? To locate a loom was the first essential. Through telephoning the Relief Society ward Presidents of the stake, we learned that a woman in one of the wards would rent us her loom. She was asked if she would Weave our rugs, but, fortunately for our development, she said that she was not able to do so on account of ill health, but would teach us the art. She proved to bea considerate, competent, and patient teacher. The next step was to find a place in which to set up the loom. The bishop of one of the wards kindly consented to have it placed in the Relief Society room of his ward. The afternoon the loom was set up and the warp put on, two rugs were woven. Eight pounds of tags had already been sewed, which made it Possible to weave the two Tugs. Page 457 458 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1946 SISTER ETHEL L. GOATES OF THE THIRTEENTH WARD, EMIGRATION STAKE, AT THE LOOM That which is tangible intensifies interest, so these two rag rugs were taken to each ward to show what could be done. The next step was to find a sufficient supply of rags to use in the weaving of the rugs. Some of the bishops announced in the Sunday evening services that the Welfare Program required the collection of rags for rugs. The tags just rolled in on the following Tuesday which was Relief Society work meeting. Some of the brethren, even, carried sacks of rags to the Relief Society room to increase the supply. That very day the rooms were filled with busy women, tearing, cutting, and sewing rags. Those who could not see well enough to sew, wound into balls the rags which were already sewed, or cut or tore more rags. It required 4 pounds of sewed rags for each rug to measure 27x54 inches. It was deemed advisable to sew at least half the required weight of tags to fill a ward assignment before beginning to weave. As it took 160 pounds of rags to make forty rugs, therefore eighty pounds of rags were needed before beginning to weave, and the remaining half was sewed while the first part of the weaving progressed. The proper width to tear the rags depended upon the weight of the material. Thin rags torn about two inches wide, when twisted, rolled up to the size of a lead pencil. When sewing, the right side was placed to RUG WEAVING IN EMIGRATION STAKE the right side of the material, then the material was folded double be. Fore making the seam, and sewed. In order to save thread, the thread between the seams was not cut. This method enclosed the seams so that 0 Taw edges were left, and a smooth- 'T, neater rug was made. Before have no definite pattern, select Tags of colors which will blend harmoniPlain colors may be used for the center and the ends of the Tug may be bordered with Stripes of different colors. The pattern to be be definitely planned and laid out before the Weaving is begun, f six or more women in a ward learn thoroughly the art of Weaving, struct another group of three or four women, thus eliminating the une. Qual task of having only a few participating. In each ward, select as many mechanically minded women as possible for the work of weaving, as difficulties do atise, and a little mechanical skil] may be necessary for tepairing the machine. Have a hammer, a pair of pliers, and some nails on hand. 459 It is important, when threading the machine, that as many observe the operation as Possible, because, when weaving, the warp may break. These women will then know how Manner similar is wound on a spool. Four of our wards have completed their rag Tug Weaving assignments and have handed in the Tugs at the Salt Lake Tegional storehouse. Two themselves, and by so doing they can use€ up materials that might otherwise be wasted and bring useful and beautiful articles into their homes, Through love, loyalty, diligence, C0-operation, consideration, and good works, our wonderful women of Emigration Stake have faithfully fulfilled their Tag rug assignments. Ee ONE FAMILY Maude Blixt Trone Robert went to Washington, Harry went to sea, Kathryn went to Hollywood, And Grace to Italy, Claire stood on a windy hill And watched the dogwood blow, And felt a lifting of the heart: € rest may never know, Faith Is a Heritage Christie Lund Coles CHAPTER 4 Synopsis: Enid Drage, wife of Tom Drage, who was killed in a. Factory accident, suddenly finds herself facing the future with a child and no means of support. She goes to her landlady, Miss Nobbitt, who tells her she need not worry about the rent. When Enid has almost decided to accept any type of work available, an attorney comes and tells her he wishes to speak to her. NID opened the door wider and invited the man to come in. As he did so, she hurriedly removed the clothes she had been mending from the rocker, and motioned him to sit in it. When he was seated, he began opening his brief case. "I'll get to the point as quickly as possible," he said. "The factory is prepared to make a fair settlement for your husband's death. It was most unfortunate. " She nodded. "Yes. Yes, it was. But this—what do you mean?" He explained the technicalities, the legal reasons, behind the settlement; but, somehow, it didn't seem to register. She hadn't expected anything, hadn't even thought of it, though now she knew she should have expected something. The check he handed her was magnanimous. She knew it was right that the factory should do this, and she needed the money for herself and her child, yet, it seemed incredible that she should be taking money in exchange for Tom's life. Her instinct was to refuse it, to cry, "Oh, no. Nol" She forced herself to remain calm, Page 460 to take the check in her icy fingers. She even managed to whisper, "Thank you.-. Thank you very much." She signed the papers he asked her to sign, and he was gone again as swiftly as he had appeared. When her surprise and incredulity had subsided, she sat on in the darkness and a great sense of relief and of peace flooded over her. Now, there was no fear of being hungry, of being evicted from the apartment. Sharon could be taken care of. God was very good. Feeling now that she had a friend in Miss Nobbitt, the next morning Enid went to her door to tell her the good news. "And well they should make a settlement," the other woman said primly. Then, smiling, "Come in, my dear. This really helps doesn't it?" "Oh, yes. Now I can pay you the rent..." "The rent, fiddle-faddle. Now, you can make preparations for the future. This money won't last long. You must go back to school, get your degree to teach. Unless, of course, you intend to marry." "Oh, I don't.. Ever." "Ever is a long time. Know." Enid was hardly listening. Her soft, young forehead was suddenly creased with tiny, thoughtful lines. She murmured, "I should love to get my degree, but I'm tied here with Sharon. I couldn't leave her." And I FAITH IS A HERITAGE Miss Nobbitt's voice was tart, almost offended as she said, "Don't you suppose I could take good enough care of her?" Enid looked at her quickly, "Why of course you could. More than 800d enough. But | wouldn't think of asking you." "You're not asking me," her landlady assured her, "I'm asking you to let me. In fact, I'm insisting." Without stopping to think, Enid gave in to her instinct to Tush over and throw her arms about the tall, spindly woman, as she exclaimed, "You darling, you!" Miss Nobbitt squirmed, protesting ittitably, "Oh, stop it." But Enid could see that she liked it. She could tel] by the way her lower will have to decide whether I should §0 to summer schoo] two years or to college for the Tegular four quarters," ell, there's no hurry about your "Well, if you hurry maybe you can make it this summer." "This summer?" Enid asked, a little dismay in her voice, realizing that she would have to leave within a week or two. Sudden fear welled 461 over her. She looked at Miss Nob. Bitt imploringly, almost as if the woman Were passing sentence upon her and she was waiting for the verdict, NID did not speak. After all, been dead Such a There was no hurry. She couldn't bear to leave Sharon even though she knew she would have the best of care, Suddenly, Miss again, saying, "It's for your own §00d, you know. This town isn't help you forget, wil] put a little flesh on your bones," Enid laughed, tremulously, "You should talk about flesh." The other woman continued, "You don't think I've heard you— crying in the night, walking the floor. Grief can destroy body and soul if one lets it" The girl wondered how nearly it 462 dorned, we begin to grow wise," Miss Nobbitt said. She turned, and Enid felt that the conversation was at an end. She started to leave. The other woman's voice stopped her, saying, softly, hesitantly, as if she did not know how to ask a favor, "Would you... Would you call me 'Manda'? That's my name, you know." "Why, yes, I'd love to. And Sharon can call you Aunt Manda. She will love that." "You think she will, really?" "Yes. I think she will... Really." x * * ALT LAKE was much the same as Enid had remembered it. The summer was hot and the asphalt seemed to melt beneath her feet as she crossed the streets. At the university, however, it was comfortable. The buildings were not too hot and the campus was beautiful and cool. A breeze came from the mountains. The first day Enid climbed the hill, she had to keep her eyes averted while she passed the particular places where Tom and she had talked and laughed and found that exquisite, life-changing magic, love. Yet, as the days passed, she found that she could not only see the places, but she could pause there, could touch the very trees where his lean, young body had stood, where his fingers had touched the bark. Somehow, it gave her peace and joy. It made her feel older than her years, seeing the younger people, courting, laughing, and realizing that all of that was behind her, realizing that she had known motherhood, met tragedy and survived it, and that the future RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1946 loomed rather frighteningly before her. It was on a Friday afternoon that she stopped near the tree where Tom had made his audacious proposal. She sat down upon the grass and opened one of her textbooks. It would be nice studying here, much nicer than in the one-room housekeeping apartment she had rented. She knew she must study hard so that she could get her credits. If she taught, she wanted to be a good teacher, one that the children would remember and perhaps even love as she had loved some of hers. But she would not start teaching until Sharon was in school, she could easily wait that long. The thought of her small, beautiful daughter sent loneliness, like a fever, through her body. She was so thankful that she had Sharon, so very, very thankful. Young people were passing, but she paid little attention to them. In fact, she did not even notice a group coming toward her until they paused and one of the girls said, "Hello," in a friendly voice. Enid looked up to see a girl who was in two of her classes and a couple of young men she had seen either in class or on the campus. "Hello," she greeted them in return, "believe it or not, I'm trying to study." The other girl, whose name, she remembered now, was Laura, laughed, "It's too nice to be studying here. Why not come with us down to the corner for a malted milk. You temember Milo here, don't you, and Sam Thurston?" Enid nodded, "I've seen them. I'm not very good at remembering names." FAITH IS A HERITAGE Milo, a rather slight young man about her own age, said, "I wish you'd come." She hesitated a moment while she assured herself it was quite all right. She couldn't be alone always. She smiled at him, murmur ing, "Why not?" She was surprised how pleasant it was to fall in with their light talk, to laugh at inconsequential things, to eat a double-thick malted milk from a high stool. Pleasant, yet somehow unreal, as if it were someone else instead of herself. When they had finished with the malts, Milo said he would drive them home. All four got into his smart, blue roadster. Laura and Sam got out at Laura's home, and Milo smiled down at her, "Like to take a ride?" "Well.. It would be nice. If you wish.." "I certainly do wish. Many things." She noticed his clothes, his shoes, the make of his car. They all told her he had money. More than that, 463 the rather sulky set of his mouth, the weak line of his chin, told her he had been spoiled. Yet, he was entertaining, as they drove toward the mountains. Dusk was falling over the city as he stopped the car on the road leading to Parley's Canyon. "Some view from here," he told her. "That's the lake over there." "It looks like a great, beautiful jewel," she exclaimed, thrilled, as she had always been, by the beautiful valley surrounded by mountains. "It isn't as bright as your eyes," he told her. And she laughed, "Don't be silly." "I'm not silly," he insisted, slipping his arm about her shoulders, "You're extremely pretty. Why don't you stop acting as if you had to cram for dear life to finish this schooling." She looked up at him in surprise. "Do I?" She asked. He did not answer her, instead he leaned his face over hers, came closer. She knew he was going to kiss her. (To be continued) 9 Pioneer Stories and Incidents (Continued from page 440) animals—two mules and a horse. When the excitement was over, the chief came up to our camp and our interpreter.. Asked him why he had thus attacked us, as we were their friends. He said that he saw the smoke from our fires in the morning and thought it was the Crows, who are enemies of the Sioux. He said he was sorry that they had made such a mistake and that our animals should be treturned. Some of the brethren went up to the Indian village... And the chief sent out into the hills for our horses.. They brought them all but two (one of my mules and a fine mare belonging to Brother Chesley). The chief said they would be sent to Fort Laramie. He pretended they could not find them. We saw some of the horses among these Indians that had been stolen from us at Strawberry Creek (Ibid, page 85). RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1946 The Settlement of Sanpete Valley (Continued from page 445) world by the Sanpete Valley Railroad extending from Nephi through Salt Creek Canyon to Wales. This railroad was built, primarily, to reach the pioneer coal fields of Sanpete County which had been located in 1859, and which were, at the time the railroad was constructed, the only source of coal supply in Utah. During the years 1890 and 1891, the Rio Grande Westen Railway was extended through the entire County, from north to south, connecting all of the larger towns. The railroads opened the dormant channels of trade, established postal and express services, and placed all the settlements of the Valley on the great highway of commercial prosperity. The pioneering era had come to a close. Now, the beautiful Valley, with its high eastern mountains, its western hills, its clear streams, and wide fields, faces the future. Many of its young men and women have teturned from the service of their country. Some are being called on missions. Others are establishing homes in the Valley. The beautiful temple, on its high hill, is an inspiration to all who see it. Travelers look upon the edifice with wonder, but the people of Sanpete Valley, who know its history, and the history of the pioneers, look upon it with reverence and great pride. ACRES OF WHEAT Gene Romolo Acres of wheat, yellow-ripe for the reaping, Acres of wheat to be garnered and sheaved And powdered by mills into flour for keeping A leash upon hunger and peace among nations; Actes of wheat to be leavened and kneaded Into thousands of loaves. Every farmer whose hands Have wheat-seeded acres and watered and weeded Those-acres with vigor and patience and skill, Has shared with the Lord in the work of creation And leamed from fruition the power of will. JOHN H. TAYLOR 465 John H. Taylor (Continued trom Page 439) and subsequently M, J. A. Athletic director, and, later, first Boy Scout Commissioner for the Church, In 1923, Brother Taylor responded to a call to become presito preside for eight years over the Mission Home of the Church in Salt Lake City. Brother Taylor became one of the his appointment to the First Council of Seventy member of the Service Men's ComJohn H, Taylor was the gtandson of President John Taylor, third President of the Church. He was the father of Lucy Taylor Andersen, of the Y. W. M. LA. General presidency, and of Heber G. Taylor. His life has been shared, his service has been encouraged, and in all his goings and comings he has been bles. Sed by the loyal, devoted, and intelligent companionship of his be. Loved wife, Rachel Grant Taylor. John H - Taylor was a man of lovable character; cultured, appreciative of the arts, considerate of his fellow men, in his judgment, a gentleman. In every sense of the true meaning of who had an unwavenng conviction of ultimate realities, In his life he gave faith and courage, comfort and understanding to all who came within the sphere of his influence. In death he is honored and will long be remembered, and his good name in be thanked for the lives of such men, and for the knowledge that gives us comfort and assurance in their Passing. Ee THESE THINGS | KNOW Mabel Jones Gabbott These things I know: that night will follow day, And bitter winter means a brighter May; That rain and sunshine lend a bud new life, And peace is Sweeter after days of strife. This, too, I know: love never really dies, ts memories are mirrored in the skies; Margaret C. Pibetings General Secretary-Treasurer Regulations governing the submittal of material for "Notes from the Field" appear in the Magazine for February 1944, page 104. GENERAL ACTIVITIES AND SPECIAL PROGRAMS Northern States Mission Ann Arbor (Michigan) Branch ROM the Northern States Mission, where Elna P. Haymond is now president of the Relief Society, Mary H. Stoddard, former president, submitted some time ago an interesting report from Hattie Bell Ross, former president of the Ann Arbor Branch Relief Society. In the three years since this small group was organized they have made po) % | at 2 rane or donated the following articles: 8 leather windbreakers from samples and scraps. 187 articles for the Red Cross from discarded samples of upholstery. 255 articles of clothing (including 26 pairs of shoes and slippers). This clothing was donated to the Friends' Committee and the Russian, Norwegian, and Philip-. Pine Relief drives. 75 pounds of books and magazines donated to a naval evacuation hospital. 2 electric irons and a guitar donated to Percy Jones Hospital for the wounded. NORTHERN STATES MISSION, ANN ARBOR (MICHIGAN) BRANCH RELIEF SOCIETY SISTERS DISPLAYING COMFORTS MADE FOR RELIEF CLOTHING DRIVES Front row, left to right, Maude Fairbanks; former president, Hattie Bell Ross; Lyal Parkinson; Lorraine Howell; a visitor; Clara Klaphaak. Back row, left to right: Gene Patterson; Virginia Peterson; Madeline Klaphaak; Florence Peter son. Po ge 4 66 NOTES FROM THE FIELD 467 WASHINGTON STAKE, WASHINGTON (D. C.) WARD ANNUAL ANNIVERSARY PARTY Front row, left to right: Iola Sabin, Second Counselor; Virginia Clark, First Counselor; Mary E. Stimpson, President. Second row: Marian Beacham, Secretary; LaRae Mortensen; Barbara Lewis. Third row: Ouida Wootten; Maria C. P. Olsen, eldest member of the Relief Society in Washington Stake; Lorraine Ingersoll; Amelia eBowers; Hope Reeder; Karma J. Robinson. Fourth row: Catherine Lund; Effie Thompson; Theresa Nilsen; Betty Kirkland; Dorothy Billings; Jean Daines; Kathryn Woolley. Fifth row: Clara Johnson; Zina L. Willey; Milton A. Barlow; Dagma Palmer; Nada Smith; W. Haven Willey; Eleanor M. Farr. The annual birthday party commemorating the organization of the Relief Society was held March 15, 1946. As part of the evening's program, a very splendid presentation of the play "An afternoon at Emma's," was presented under the direction of Sister Clara Johnson. The party was attended by 150 people. Photograph submitted by Mary E. Stimpson. 58 miscellaneous household articles donated to the Good Neighbors and the Salvation Army. Sister Ross explains, "We have carnestly tned to follow the admonition 'He that hath two coats, let him impart to him that hath none' (Luke 3:11). Since most of the women in our Society have jobs outside their homes, we feel that we have had unusual success in our charitable efforts. There are only five families who live here permanently. The other members of our group are university students who stay with us a year or so. Their presence enriches our experiences but their departure leaves us desolated until new students come and are affiliated with " us. 468 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1946 TIMPANOGOS STAKE (UTAH), PLEASANT GROVE THIRD WARD VISITING TEACHERS Seated, left to right: Minnie Anderson; Anna Johnson; Margaret Holdaway; Matilda Christensen; Erika Anderson. Standing, left to right: Margaret Barney; Mary Wadley; Ellen Sjoberg; Perlinda Radmall; Stena Christensen; Laura Lim; Margaret Shoell; Delilah Fugal, Annie Anderson. All of these sisters have given outstanding service. Laura Lim has been a visiting teacher for fifty years, with the exception of the time she spent as a counselor in the. Ward presidency. The others. Have served from twenty to thirty-nine years, and most of them are still active teachers. ' At the age of eighty-six, Anna Johnson does much of the sewing of bunal clothes, and, when the weather permits, makes her regular teaching calls. Sister Minnie Anderson, eighty-five, also makes her regular visits. Three of this group have served, also, as ward presidents. All of these sisters work with the younger members and are an inspiration to the organization. Photograph submitted by Geneve J. Dalton, President, Timpanogos Stake Relief Society. PLEASE, GOD Edna S. Dustin Let me not be a teen-age travesty Holding tenaciously to youth. Instead, Let me relinquish those years graciously And hold with pride my platinum coiffured head, With tendnil faith still shining in my eyes, With tip-toe eagerness, but feet well shod; Let me untie the ribbons of each day's surprise And leave my outgrown years to youth, dear God. Notes on the Authors of the Lessons Leone G. Layton Member, Relief Society General Board In answer to numerous requests from readers of the Magazine, the following infotmation concerning the writers of Relief Seciety lessons for 1946-47 is presented: LDER HOWARD _ R. DRIGGS _has__ contributed from the richness of his active mind and the wealth of long scholastic training to the preparation of the Relief Society literature lessons of the past few years: "The Bible as Literature"; "(New Testament Literature"; and the present course, "America as Revealed in Its Literature." He has used no textbook for these courses, because, in writing them, he has pioneered the way, keeping in mind the particular needs and interests of Latter-day Saint women. Born in Pleasant Grove, the son of Benjamin W. And Rosalia Cox Driggs, Elder Driggs pays tribute to the influence of such pioneer teachers as William M. Stewart, Augusta Winters Grant, and Rose Brown Hayes. After his graduation from Brigham Young University, Howard R. Driggs began his teaching career in Pleasant Grove. Later, he graduated from the University of Utah in the same class with President David O. McKay, and that same year he became instructor in English at the Branch Normal School at Cedar City. After attending the University of Chicago, he became instructor, and, later, professor of English at. The. University of Utah. He held the same position in New York University, from which institution he received his Ph. D. Degree, and where he is now professor emeritus of English. Elder Driggs has always been active in the Church, serving as a president of the Mutual Improvement Association, a Sunday School superintendent, stake board member, president of the Manhattan (New York) Branch, and member of the New York Stake high council. For many years he has been a member of the Deseret Sunday School Union Board. Elder Driggs has also served as president of the Library-Gymnasium Commission of Utah, and is now president of the Pioneer Trails Association and the Horace Mann League of the United States. He has written more than thirty books, mainly on English and the story of America's making. His latest book, now being published, is The Master's Art— An Activity Course in Gospel Teaching. FxLDER H. WAYNE DRIGGS, the son of Howard R. Dnggs and Eva May Frampton Driggs, is a man of many talents, interests, and accomplishments. His devoted and meticulous study of the history of Page 469 470 the Church has eminently qualified him to prepare the course "Church History" for 1944-1947. He is also the author of "Stories From the Book of Mormon," 1943-1944. Elder Driggs has studied at Columbia and New York universities, and holds the degree of doctor of philosophy. He has taught English and sociology in junior and senior high schools in Utah and New Jersey, and has been a professor of education at New York University, professor of English and director of English education at Brigham Young University, head of the department of English at New York State Teacher's College, and is at present director of the Branch Agncultural College at Cedar City, Utah. Elder Driggs has always been active in the church, and has generously contributed his talents in the field of writing. His pageant — America's Witness of Christ — was produced each summer from 1937 to 1941 on the Hill Cumorah before thousands of people. His Dramatic Approach to Teaching contains suggestions which have been highly praised by educators throughout the country. Elder Driggs is also a contributor to many educational journals. He is a member of the Horace Mann League and many other scholastic and honorary organizations. Elder Driggs owns and manages a fourteen-acre farm in Pleasant Grove, Utah, and with his wife, Susan Elizabeth Swenson Driggs, and their four sons, makes an enjoyable hobby of farming. FELDER T. EDGAR LYON, author of the Optional Lessons in RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1946 Lieu of Literature, 1946-47—"The Gospel as a Way of Life"—and author of ""The Restored Gospel Dispensation," 1941-1942, is an experienced teacher and a devoted missionary, and has a rich background from which to draw material. His many years of preaching the gospel in foreign countries and his inspiring instruction in the Latter-day Saint seminaries have broadened his outlook and increased his appreciation for the ideals of the Church. Brother Lyon was bom in Salt Lake City, the son of David R. And Mary C. Lyon. He attended the Latter-day Saint High School and was graduated from the University of Utah with a bachelor's degree. He also studied at Bingham Young University, the University of Callifornia, and received his master's degree from the University of Chicago. He has taught in Rigby (Idaho) High School, the Midway (Idaho) Seminary, Ricks College, and the Salt Lake City Institute of Religion. He has also served as a Sunday School and Mutual Improvement Association teacher, and is at present a member of the high council of East Mill Creek Stake (Utah). Brother Lyon served as a missionary in the Netherlands, and, before returning home, traveled in Europe, Egypt, Palestine, Syria, and Turkey. In 1933, he was called, with his wife, Hermana Forsberg Lyon, to return to the Netherlands and preside over that mission. Two of their six sons, twins, were born in Rotterdam. Relief Society women will enjoy the rare spiritual quality of Brother Lyon's lessons, and the breadth of his understanding and enthusiasm will be an inspiration to them. NOTES ON THE AUTHORS OF THE LESSONS ISTER AMY BROWN LYMAN, author of the visiting teachers' messages for 1946 - 47: "Our Pioneer Heritage: Pioneer Virtues," needs no introduction to the women of Relief Society, for she has worked with them for many years. Called to the General Board in 19009, she has served as a Board member, assistant general secretary, general secretary, general secretary-treasurer, first counselor in the general presidency, and as general president. She has seen the organization grow in scope and influence, and has been instrumental in directing that growth. Through her desire to render broader service to the Society, Sister Lyman has taken special training in social welfare work and she has given years of service in this field, receiving national and international recognition for her outstanding achievements. Active in civic welfare, Amy Lyman has been a member of the House of Representatives in the Utah State Legislature, and has served on numerous committees devoted to the social betterment of humanity. From her wide experience and —— 471 extensive travel, she has gathered many rich treasures of thought and a fund of interesting stories about famous people with whom she has been privileged to associate. In her childhood home, many of the early pioneers visited with her parents, John Brown, who led the Mississippi saints to Pueblo in 1846, and Margaret Zimmerman Brown. From them she heard many inspiring stories of Church history. Sister Lyman has always been a champion of the visiting teachers' program of the Relief Society. She understands its purposes and is aware of the great possibilities for good within it. We are sure that the visiting teachers will enjoy cartying the messages prepared by Sister Lyman into the homes of the Latter-day Saints. Note: For other references to President Amy Brown Lyman, see: Annie Wells Cannon: "Amy Brown Lyman," Relief Society Magazine, January 1940, pp. 3-6; "In Retrospect," January through December 1942; President Belle S. Spafford: "Amy Brown Lyman," Relief Society Magazine, May 1945, pp. 269- 271. DESERT BEAUTY Ethel VanHook Hopper Driving through a desert town Where growing things were scorched and brown, I saw beside a heaped-up load Of sagebrush on a dusty road, A woman in the heat and glare, With faded dress and wind-blown hair; She clutched white blossoms in her hand— Where had she found in this bare land Such beauty? Could the desert give These flowers that helped her soul to live? I smiled—she glanced with pleased surprise; What gratitude in those pale eyes! E} DEPARTMENT Suggestions and Unstructions on the &ducational Program—1946-47 COURSES for the coming educational year, 1946-47, October through May, are as follows: Theology — "Church History" (Third and final year). Visiting 'Teachers' Messages — "Our Pioneer Heritage: Pioneer Virtues." Sewing—A course in the fundamentals of sewing, optional for use by wards and branches. (See "Notes to the Field," page 450 of this issue of the Magazine for instructions to Relief Society officers. ) Literature—'""America as Revealed in Its Literature." Optional Lessons in Lieu of Literature—""The Gospel as a Way of Life." (Instructions concerning the selection of one or the other of these two courses for the third Tuesday of each month may be found in "Notes to the Field," page 450 of this issue of the Magazine.) Social Science—"The Family in the Gospel Plan." The aim of the courses to be given in Relief Society during the season 1946-47 is to make Relief Society members better Latter-day Saints, better mothers, and better citizens; and thus to strengthen the Latter-day Saint home. In order to accomplish these purposes, the General Board Page 472 presents lessons on Church doctrine; lessons in literature to interpret America as a land of freedom, calling attention to the need of upholding the Constitution of our land; lessons on fundamental concepts of Latter-day Saint family life; and simple lessons on sewing. The General Board feels that the diligent study of these various courses will give to Relief Society members a well-rounded development in matters essential to Latter-day Saint women in this day. Teaching in Relief Society Depending upon the skill of the teacher, many and varied methods of conducting a class period may be followed. All Relief Society teachers are not equally trained in teaching, and many fine teachers have not had professional training. The. Best teachers, however, are always eager to improve their methods and make more effective their teaching. It is of paramount importance, however highly skilled a teacher may be, that she teach in the spint of the gospel and give prayerful and conscientious study to her lessons. In addition, however, to the preparation of the lesson by a teacher, she should present it in such a way as LESSON DEPARTMENT to awaken in the members of her class a wish to study and gain knowledge for themselves. This desired end may be obtained by a variety of methods—by class participation either by an informal discussion, questions and answers, or by a more formal presentation such as a round table, panel discussion, etc., or by home study on the part of indivdual members. It is a great responsibility to undertake to teach a group of fellow Relief Society women. It is also a great privilege. From the hours of intensive study spent in preparation for each Relief Society lesson by a class leader, come intellectual growth and a greater understanding of the gospel. May each class leader in the coming season do her utmost to impart knowledge to her class members, and also awaken in them a desire to study and learn for themselves, so that the testimonies of all Relief Society members may be strengthened, and their lives be lived more in conformity with the principles of the gospel. Lesson titles and lesson aims for the entire year's courses of study are given in the previews, but these may be subject to change. Correspondence on Lessons Ward class leaders who desire help on any matter pertaining to a lesson should consult their stake leaders. Stake leaders desiring information may address such cortespondence to General Board of Relief Society, 28 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City 1, Utah. It is not desirable to address communications either to the authors of the lessons or to any other Church office. 473 Textbooks and Special References Textbooks should be supplied for the use of the respective class leaders from the funds of the Society. On the completion of the courses in May 1947, it is suggested that the counselor in charge of education see that all books bought during the year by Relief Society funds are collected and placed in the Relief Society library for future use. Many books which have been used in Relief Society in past years (such as The American Citizen's Handbook, in use by Relief Societies for the social science lessons in 1942-43, which will supply supplementary material for the literature course "America as Revealed in Its Literature" for 1946- 47) will be found of great worth in preparing the current year's lessons. It is important that books bought by Relief Society through the years be carefully preserved for future reference. Textbooks for courses for the year 1946-47 are as follows: Theology: Doctrine and Covenants, $1.00; Smith, Joseph Fielding: Essentials in Church History, $2.00. Sewing (Optional course for work meeting): The Complete Book of Sewing, Book Presentations, New York, 1943, $2.95.: These textbooks may be obtained from the Deseret Book Company, 44 East South Temple, Salt Lake City 10, Utah. A list of books to which references are made in the current year's lessons, and which will prove of lasting worth in a Relief Society library, follows: Standard Works of the Church Bible Book of Mormon Doctrine and Covenants Pearl of Great Price 474 Books by Latter-day Saint writers on Church subjects, referred to in Relief Society lessons for 1946-47: A Story to Tell, published by Sunday School and Primary (includes pioneer stories) Bowen, Albert E.: Constancy Amid Change Discourses of Brigham Young. Discourses of Wilford Woodruff Gospel Kingdom, 'The (Writings and Discourses of John Taylor) Grant, President Heber J.: Gospe: Standards Hunter, Milton R.: The Gospel Through the Ages Nibley, Preston: Brigham Young, the Man and His Work Pyper, George D.: Romance of an Old Playhouse RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1946 Recreation in the Home, published by Auxiliary Organizations (25c) Smith, President Joseph F.: Gospel Doctrine Smith, Joseph Fielding: Essentials in Church History Smith, Joseph Fielding: Teachings of the Prophet Joseph Smith. Smith, Joseph Fielding: The Restoration of All Things Smith, Joseph Fielding: The Way to Perfection Talmage, James E., Articles of Faith Talmage, James E.: The Vitality of Mormonism (out of print) Widtsoe, John A.: A Rational TheoloO Widtsoe, John A.: Evidences and Reconciliations Widtsoe, John A.: Program of the Church <-> —<——- Sheology—Church History Elder H. Wayne Driggs Preview of Lessons for 1946-47 A PREVIEW of the third and final year's course of study entitled "Church History" introduces the lessons for 1946-47. 'Titles for the last eight lessons and their objectives follow below. It will be remembered that the central theme for the course is to be found in the Savior's words, "By their fruits ye shall know them." Again we shall look at the fruits of Mormonism and find them good. By way of review we may summarize the three parts of the course once more. Part I for 1944-45 was devoted to the opening dispensation of the fulness of times and had as its objective the mission of the Prophet Joseph Smith and the coming of the "church out of the wilderness"'; Part II for 1945-46 outlines the story of the saints in their movement to "the place which God prepared" in the tops of the everlasting mountains; Part III for 1946-47 pertains to the coming-of-age period of the Church with its broadened activities meeting the swift sweep of our modern times. The main objective of the course is to narrate the more important events of Church history and to consider the revelations in their relation to the historical episodes. We revere the revelations contained in the book of the Doctrine and Covenant as the revealed word of God for our day. The titles of the eight lessons for this year's course follow: LESSON DEPARTMENT Lesson 17. The Organized Church Moves Forward Objective: To indicate how the expand. Ing functions and offices in the Testored hurch developed, Lesson 18. The Priesthood Quorshow how the worth male membership of the Church js eligible to Teceive the Powers and bless. Ings of the Priesthood. Lesson 19. The Relief Society De. Veloped Objective: To trace the steps which de. Veloped 1 Lesson 20, Educational] System De. Veloped Objective: Objective: To study how the Sunday School, the Mutual mprovement AsWETe soon given Place to aid in the Church training Program for youth, Lesson 23. The Welfare Plan Init. Ated To show how the Lord is elping his saints to face the problems day. Stood firm within the Church forward the work of the Lord. In this Concluding series of the Church history lessons, there will be Penod, she 475 need for supplementary Teading material in addition to the Doctrine and ment and Primary As Sunday School 'and Do not lose sight of the Place of Octrine and Covenants in - Here, the words you wil] Principles of life. Study let us not forget our Tepeating been for us in this day, As to the method of class discussion, bear the following j S given in the written lesson its@lf, The teachrt Covers this part fairly well, When, Owever, she Teaches the discussion a8 tecorded in the Doctrine and Once a Class, after at fempting to answer g simple but searching question, is tumed to the 476 clear and convincing facts as phrased by the Master, hearts are warmed; and minds, seeking ready confirmation of truth, recall personal illusRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1946 trations which press for expression. Testimonies result, and the teacher assumes her rightful role as director, rather than taskmaster of the hour. Lesson I7— The Organized Church Moves Forward For Tuesday, October 1, 1946 Objective: To indicate how the expanding functions and offices in the restored Church developed. HE might of a great people is measured collectively. Upon the group as a whole, rather than upon its individual members, must the ultimate worth of a cause be known. It has been significant throughout the story of the rise of the Latterday Saints that the Lord, in speaking of his Church, has always done so in plural terms. The promise given for the keeping of the Word of Wisdom, for example, reads, "And all saints who remember to keep and do these sayings..." (Doc. And Cov. 89:18), not, and each saint who keeps these sayings. This is a significant fact both for the development of the Church, as well as for the good of each indivdual member, ~ for therein lies a strength twofold. By directing his promises for good living to the saints, the Lord, in effect, says, align yourself with my people and their cause, and you may be assured of the ultimate triumph of good. Something happens to one when such a promise is given. Desire to hold fast is strengthened, and within the heart rests the comfort of those eternal values that remain amid a world of change. What better way could God be forever calling his children into line! In our study of Church history the past two years, many and varied have been the shifting scenes that have depicted the rise of a mighty people — the modern Israel. At times, when the dark clouds of oppression blackened the skies, it must have seemed to those who suffered most in the beginning years, that the promises of the Lord might come to naught. Had it not been for that enduring faith kindled eternally within the hearts of his most stalwart saints, certainly there could have been no rise of a nation of men and women who came from the far corners of the earth to bring again Zion in the last days. But now, as we look back over the history of the Church for a hundred years and more, we must feel that the world, too, will come to realize how great was that first vision of the boy prophet, Joseph Smith, that spring morning in the year of 1820. Yes, the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints has come of age. No longer need her people rest solely upon the revealed word of the Lord to sustain and defend their cause. Literally, within the lives and deeds of thousands and thousands of worthy saints, there rests the living testimony of a great work. These people are the fruits of the good tree. They are they whose lives become the pattern by which one mav know the truth. And now, for those of us who LESSON DEPARTMENT have grown into the gtove of good trees of the third, fourth, and even the fifth generation, let us take stock of our rich heritage in order to more fully appreciate the expanding function of the modern restored Church of our day. Its roots are deep, its foundation secure, its plan for the perfecting of the saints certain. Within the years of the more than a century since the first vision of Joseph Smith, many and wonderful have been the accomplishments of the modern Israel. These, if marked off in decades, May suggest, chronologically, some of the more important high lights of the Church events we have been studying during this course in Church history. Considered in connection with Latter-day Saint beliefs, as these have been Stated in the Articles of Faith, the Student of history may see how the guiding principles 20f Mormonism have been translated] into action and accomplishment. 1820—Year of the First Vision God not only spoke from the heavens, but saw fit to appear personally in company with his Only Begotten Son. Years later, the Prophet wrote, "We believe in God the Eternal Father, and in His Son Jesus Christ, and in the Holy Ghost." From the personal know]- edge of sight as well as hearing, Joseph placed with conviction each comma and conjunction in that sentence. God lives! He does speak! He can answer Prayer! He does direct his work to bring about the eternal life of man! Here is the firm foundation upon which the Church of Jesus Christ now rests, 477 1830—Year of Organization of the Church According to the laws of the State of New York and the nation of which it is a part, this religious body came into being. Since that day and as a result of the revelations given to the Prophet, there js upon the earth the same organization "that existed in the Primitive Church viz: apostles, prophets, pastors, teachers, evangelists, etc." 1840 — Year of the Incorporation ot the City of Nauvoo The most inspiring structure in the mother of Mormon towns— Nauvoo the Beautiful — was the temple. It was the second such to be erected in the dispensation of the fulness of times, Inspired and blessed by the revelations God had already given his saints in Kirtland, the people of his choice now knew for a certainty the power of "the gift of tongues, Prophecy, revelation, visions, healing, interpretation of tongues." Everywhere, the peace of beautiful homes and thriving industries made Nauvoo a haven of though, had seen the bitter darkness that lay just ahead for him and his people, even as he then stood radiant in the shafts of sunlight that pierced the thickly darkening clouds. 1850—Year of Territorial Organization of Utah When the Prophet saw in vision the saints as a mighty people in the heart of the Rocky Mountains, he set their thinking toward scnptural 478 fulfillment of the prophecies of Zion redeemed. Later he wrote as the tenth articles of faith, "We believe.. That Zion will be built upon this (the American) continent." President Brigham Young, who led the Church in the beginning days of the fulfillment of these prophecies, saw the need for a new land under the control of democratic, constitutional freedom such as the founding fathers of our nation envisioned. It was with joy, therefore, that he and the saints heralded the news of President Millard Fillmore's appointment of federal officers for the Territory of Utah, in September of 1850. Brigham Young thus became the governor of the Provisional State of Deseret. Zion of the Americas seemed nearer at hand. 1860 — Departure of Johnston's Army from Utah The struggle for righteous living among the saints brought bitter opposition in all their journeyings, even to the outposts of civilization— the Rocky Mountains. Tenaciously they stated their right to worship freely as: follows, "We claim the privilege of worshiping Almighty God according to the dictates of our own conscience, and allow all men the same privilege, let them worship how, where, or what they may." The Johnston's army episode in Utah brought to an end the era of mobs and armed force. The army came to subdue rebellion, and left having found none.. Its departure marked the beginning of brighter days for the Church whose claim for the freedom of worship | still stands. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1946 1870—Stakes of Zion Organized (Nine in Number) The coming of the 1870's marked the organization of twenty stakes of Zion. From Bear Lake on the north to St. George on the south, President Young had set firmly these organizations for the Church. "The literal gathering of Israel" was well under way. Within the outer reaches of the Intermountain Empire were planted the secure posts of refuge for the growth and development of the saints. In seven years that followed the opening of this decade, eleven of the twenty stakes were organized, so that, by 1877, the year of Brigham Young's death, men and women from the far corners of the earth knew of the standard upon Zion's hilltop. 1880—Fftieth Anniversary of the Organization of the Church President John Taylor, in the year of the Golden Jubilee, revived again an old custom of Israel as recorded in the twenty-fourth chapter of the Book of Leviticus. The year was to be one of forgiveness in the Church. Throughout the stakes of Zion the need of service to the less fortunate was stressed. It was a year of thankfulness and praise to the Lord. 1900—F'iftieth Anniversary of the Preaching of the Gospel in Scandinavia and Hawaii. Two oceans had been spanned by the dawning of the twentieth century. The good word of the gospel had gone over both. Truly, the search for honest souls had become world-wide. How real then to the saints became the words of the LESSON DEPARTMENT third article of faith, that through the Atonement of Christ, all mankind by obedience to the laws and ordinances of the Gospel." 1930—Year of the Centennial Cele. Bration of the Church € one hundred years of MormMonism was Portrayed jn fitting word and song from Salt Lake City to the most remote branches of the mighty People rejoiced - and "hoped all things" for the greater days that lay ahead, Suggestions for Active Reading and Discussion h people. The great events of the first century of Mor. Ten to his word, istics of true humility? Haye Tead again in class, the whole of the first section of the 2. What historical] events In this lesson faith found therein, For further details of important Church President Amy Brown Lyman Preview of Lessons for 1946-47 "OUR PIONEER HERITAGE" is the general subject chosen for consideration jin the Visiting teachers' department during the year 1046-47, Messages featurin Pioneer virtues will be dwelt upon discussed by the visiting teachers when making their monthly will be focused on the migration of the City Beautiful, their trek across the d Plains, their their "Land their Struggles to Parched and bar. Ten wilderness. F this Migration the historian ancroft says: There is no Parallel in the world's history to this migration from Nauvoo. The a people making few Pretentions to ciyil or religious liberty. |", Before this [mi. 480 gration] the Mormons had [already] been driven to the outskirts of civilization, where they had built themselves a city; this they must now abandon, and throw themselves upon the mercy of savages... (Bancroft's History of Utah, page 217). In our discussions and considerations we shall keep in mind, in addition to our 1847 pioneers, those who came in successive companies during the two decades which preceded the completion of the railroad to Salt Lake Valley, and also those other pioneers who settled in the outlying sections of Utah and in the adjoining states, and who demonstrated the same faith and courage, and experienced similar hardships and trials. We shall also remember the brave and courageous women—the wives and mothers, whose help, encouragement, and service were mighty factors in all the great triumphs and outstanding successes of those early days. As we think of the accomplishments, the virtues, and the debt of gratitude we owe our own pioneers, we are very naturally reminded that in every phase of human endeavor there have been those who had the vision, the courage, and the daring to look ahead and prepare the way for others to follow. To all such who have made constructive contributions to the welfare of mankind, the whole world is indebted. Among these are those who have so successfully led the way into fields of scientific invention and discovery, who have so greatly advanced conditions of health and education, and who have made mighty progress in the direction of improved human relations. Many of these great leaders have been misunderstood and unappreciated, some have been reRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1946 viled and persecuted, while still others have been actual martyrs to a cause for which they had already previously sacrificed and suffered. Our ever-faithful visiting teachers will no doubt receive this assignment of subject matter for 1946-47 with great satisfaction and enthusiasm. Like all other Latter-day Saints, they love the stories of the pioneers. With many of these, they may already be familiar. But they will probably enjoy refreshing their memories and searching for further - interesting historical data. Incidents connected with the journey and labors of our peerless pioneers will awaken renewed admiration for their faith and courage, their dauntless spirit and fortitude, and will increase in their descendents and all other members of the Church, appreciation for their outstanding virtues and their marvelous, if not actually miraculous, accomplishments. It is hoped that the visiting teachers in carrying these messages to the homes will so stimulate Church members that there will be a revived interest in the lives and labors of the mighty men and women who were such important factors in the establishment of our great Western Empire; and cause Church members to seek to emulate the example set by the pioneers. Titles for the messages for the eight months follow: Lesson 1. Love of God Objective: To show that the pioneers had a fundamental love of God, shown in their simple obedience to the principles of his truth. Lesson 2. Love of Fellow Man Objective: To show that the pioneers LESSON DEPARTMENT possessed the qualities of character necessary to live the "second great commandment," love of neighbor. Lesson 3. Faith Objective: To show that the pioneers recognized and practiced the first principle of revealed religion, namely, faith —faith in God, faith in their leaders, faith in one another, and faith in a great cause. Lesson 4. Courage Objective: To show that courage, an outstanding virtue, was possessed by the pioneers; not alone courage to meet physical dangers, but also courage to meet spiritual pitfalls. Lesson 5. Industry Objective: To acquaint the women with 48) the diligence and industry of the pioneers. Lesson 6. Self-Reliance Objective: To show that the pioneers were resourceful, creative, and _ self-reliant. Lesson 7. Dependability Objective: To understand more completely the great pioneer virtue — dependability—to show how the pioneers cherished honor in their dealings with their fellow men. Lesson 8. Thirst for Knowledge Objective: To inspire an appreciation in us of the pioneer thirst for knowledge, that urge to progress, that search for ultimate perfection. Lesson I—Love of God For Tuesday, October 1, 1946 Objective: To show that the pioneers had a fundamental love of God, shown in their simple obedience to the principles of his truth. O the extent that man loves God, does he choose to keep the commandments of God. His love for his Maker is in a great measure proportionate to his desire and willingness to be obedient to divine laws and precepts, and to make personal sacrifices, when necessary, in order to conform to these laws and precepts. We read: If ye love me, keep my commandments. He that hath my commandments and keepeth them, he it is that loveth me.... If a man love me he will keep my words: and my Father will love him and we will come unto him, and make our abode with him (John 14:15, 21, 23). An outstanding example of a people united in their love of God, and in their faith in him is that of our pioneer forebears. For him and for the establishment of his kingdom, no sacrifice seemed too great. Like Job of old, they could say, "I know that my Redeemer liveth." They knew that he heard and answered prayers; that he came to earth and restored the gospel in these latter days; and that he commissioned the saints, through their Prophet, to help in the establishment of his Church and in spreading the glad tidings throughout the Church. 'To this cause they were committed. They loved the Lord and chose to be obedient to him in all things, even to leaving their dearly beloved city. Colonel Thomas L. Kane, the faithful and devoted friend of the saints, who called at Nauvoo in September 1846, reports the sad conditions he found after their departure. 482 I procured a skiff, and rowing across the river, landed at the chief wharf of the city. No one met me there. I looked and saw no one.... I walked through the solitary streets.... I went into empty workshops... No work people anywhere looked to know my errand... I could have supposed the people hidden in their houses, but the doors were unfastened; and when at last I timidly entered, I found dead ashes white upon the hearths,., Fields upon fields of heavy headed, yellow grain lay rotting ungathered upon the ground. No one was on hand to take in their rich harvest... And in and around the splendid temple which had been the chief object of my admiration, armed men were barracked, surrounded by their stacks of musketry and pieces of heavy ordnance. -. It was after nightfall when I was ready to cross the river on my retum,... And I landed where a faint glimmering light invited me to steer. There among the dock RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1946 and rushes, sheltered only by the darkness, with no roof between them and the sky, I came upon a crowd of several hundred human creatures... These were Mormons in Lee County, Iowa, in the 4th week of the month of September, in the year of our Lord 1846 (Whitney, Orson F., History of Utah, I, page 275). Love of God has been the activating principle in all the accomplishments of Latter-day Saints from the day of the organization of the Church to the present time. To the degree that Latter-day Saints love the Lord, as shown by their obedience to the counsel and admonitions of his leaders, will the Church go forward in this day and the Lord's work on earth be consummated. > <2 (ord ' lTleeting —Sewing (A Course for Optional Use by Wards and Branches at Work Meeting. See "Notes to the Field," page 450.) Work Meeting Committee, Velma N. Simonsen, Chairman Preview of Lessons for 1946-47 SEWING is quite properly spoken of as an art. It is an art in that it is a form of creative expression. The woman who sews finds relaxation in her work just as the painter does in his canvas or the writer does in his manuscript. Sewing is a practical art and should have a place in every woman's life. We have mothers in our own Society who are unable to lower the hems of their children's skirts, and who must hire a seamstress to do even the smallest of sewing tasks. This should not be so. Every girl should know the simple fundamentals of home sewing both as a convenience and also for economy's sake. When a person learns to sew she also discovers a new use for her hands and her leisure time, and the satisfaction she feels in the completed article is an experience she will want to repeat again and again. An assignment has been given to the Relief Society to stimulate, in the women of the Church, a keener interest and greater activity in some of the neglected arts of homemaking. Therefore, we are presenting a simple course in the fundamentals of home sewing. These lessons will LESSON DEPARTMENT be outlined in the Magazine for study in the months October through May. It is optional with each ward or branch whether or not it will adopt this course. (See "Notes to the Field," page 450.) While it is doubtful if, in any ward or branch, every member of the Relief Society would wish to participate in this dressmaking course, it is the hope that in every ward and branch there will be some who will desire to study it. 'Those not participating in the sewing course may go right on with the other activities of the work meeting. The day should be kept friendly and informal. Welfare sewing, of course, is the first responsibility for work meeting and this optional sewing course should in no way interfere with this assignment. These lessons, it is felt, can be used to advantage in raising the standard of the welfare sewing, as well as giving assistance to the inexperienced sewer in the making of her own and her children's clothing. They will give the experienced sewer an opportunity to render real service by assisting those less experienced and, at the same time, give some help, even to more experienced sewers, by offering simple, time-saving, professional methods of sewing. The teachers chosen for this course need not be experts or professional seamstresses. Any member of the Relief Society who is experienced in practical home sewing will be able to interpret the outlines and teach the fundamentals of this course. The sewing course is planned to be simple and applicable, covering 483 each step from the thimble to the finished article. Lessons in technique and practical application of principles will alternate. We hope, at the close of the season, a fashion show or an exhibit may be held, at which time the women may model and exhibit the clothes they have made during the Relief Society season. It is the hope that each ward and branch Relief Society will do everything possible to stimulate attendance at work meetings, and inspire an ambition in each member to make at least one article of clothing during the year, in addition to the service she will render the Society as such. The titles for the eight lessons follow: Lesson 1. Choosing Right Clothes Special attention will be given to colors, fabrics, basic styles, and lines. Lesson 2. Use of Tools and Treatment of Materials Lesson 3. Measuring Commercial patterns will be interpreted and adjusted to individual measurements and cutting. Lesson 4. Stitches Different kinds of bastings and uses and treatment of raw edges and seams will be demonstrated. Lesson 5. Pinning, Basting, Fitting, Pressing Lesson 6. Button Holes, Fastencrs Lesson Finishing, 'Trimming, Collars, Bands, Hems and Pockets Lesson 8. Exhibit or Fashion Show A display of articles made during Relief Society season will be shown. The textbook recommended for use is The Complete Book of Sewing. 484 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1946 Lesson I—Choosing the Right Clothes For Tuesday, October 8, 1946 Women were made to give our eyes delight A female sloven is an odious sight. 'Tis woman's duty to be charmingly dressed. It is not a question of how much money she spends, but the intelligent manner in which she spends her money. If the fundamental principles of sewing and good grooming are adhered to, a woman can be as correctly dressed in cotton as in silk or velvet. Every girl should be taught how to sew correctly and effectively. It is an accomplishment that is not only an economy but a means of attaining individuality and smartness, and one that brings rich rewards in relaxation and satisfaction. A wardrobe made by an individual may be twice as extensive as one purchased ready made. The first step in dressmaking is to choose the proper styles, fabrics, -and colors suitable to you and your personality. Study yourself in the mirror. It is your truest critic. Become familiar with your weak points —Edward Young (early 18th century) as well as your strong points. Study your posture, your walk, your facial expression, and your hair-do. Comb your hair in various ways and choose the most becoming style. Accent your attractive features. You can give the illusion of gaining inches in height and losing pounds in weight through the proper choice of styles. Don't be afraid of changing your styles. Colors that were not becoming to you at twenty may be best for you at forty, and visa versa. Learn to be individual; never copy another person. The clever clothes worn by someone else may appear dowdy and unattractive on you. Suggestions to Class Leaders: Bring materials of different colors, patterns, and textures. Drape them on women of different types for good or bad effects. Experiment with different necklines. Textbook References: The Complete Book of Sewing, Book Presentations, N. Y. 1943, I and II. Line ——. As Revealed in its Literature Elder Howard R. Driggs Preview of Lessons for 1946-47 HISTORY tells what man _ has done; literature reflects how he felt about it. Within the songs, stories, orations, drama, and other types of creative expression may be felt the heartthrobs of a people. If these creations are in consonance with fact; if they are true to life, and particularly if they are true to truth, they help make of history a living reality. Our central purpose in this series of studies is to discover and enjoy literature that "rings true" to the inner spirit of America. This means an alluring search for the gold nuggets that lie in the common sand and gravel. It means a careful test- LESSON DEPARTMENT ing of literary selections to separate the true from the false—to find that which is soundly based on the fundamental principles of real Americanism.. These principles are rooted in true religion. Our nation, someone has said, was Bible-born. Certain it is that literature which truly reflects its inmost spirit is soundly democratic in the highest sense—is in accord with the spirit of true Christianity. We shall do well to discover and foster such upbuilding literature. It is protective and patriotic to do so.. In carrying forward this important study, a series of lessons covering two years' work is planned. During the first year, the unfolding epic of America, viewed in the high lights of its literature, will be presented. For the second year, a more intensive study of chosen types of truly American literature will be made. From such lessons, rich in content and systematically followed, should come a clearer vision of America as our founding fathers began it, and as our pioneers carried it "from sea to shining sea." Here is a wealth of good reading and spiritual uplift. In offering it, there is clear realization of a vast, rich field. A temptation will be constant for teachers and students to stray away from the main road to alluring byways. This must be resisted if the goal — a clearer understanding of America, and more devotion to this land -of liberty—is to be achieved. Let that beacon light be the guide, and rich rewards from the work will be won. Untrs or Stupy Lesson 1. Our American Indians in Literature 485 Inwoven with the epic of America's making in vital ways is the story of the red men. To get a more appreciative understanding of this colorful race—the first Americans we know—is the aim of this study. Better understanding of Indians, their nature, their admirable traits, their helpful contributions to our developing settlement and civilization, will come as worthy literature portraying Indian life and thought is studied. This may be found both in what expression we have from Indians themselves, and in that produced by authors who have caught something of their true nature and spirit. Latter-day Saints have a special interest and added knowledge and light for a deeper insight into this alluring theme. Lesson 2. Colonial Founders of America in Literature Columbus, led by inspiration, opened a new world. Following the great discoverer came folk of varied types seeking adventure, gold, and opportunity for greater freedom. So far as our own land is concerned, most of these liberty seekers wanted a place where they could worship God according to the dictates of their own conscience. This study will be centered mainly on these courageous, God-fearing souls who builded better than they knew. From them has come to us a heritage that grows richer with the passing years. Our part is to get closer to the Bibleloving folk who dared the wide sea in their frail craft, and planted on the shores of our America their homes, their churches and schools. From some of these homes came many of the founders of our faith. Lesson 3. America's First War for Freedom—in Literature Man's struggle for liberty—a long, hard upclimb through the ages—flames into brilliant reality during our Revolutionary War. Songs, stories, orations and essays truly expressive of this fighting epoch, will help bring its inner significance to us. This literature is vibrant with aspiration and courage of a people who visioned clearly their "inalienable right to life, liberty and the pursuit of happiness." To secure this right they went through the fires of testing conflict. It is a precious 486 heritage they have bequeathed to us—one we should study with devotion. Lesson 4. Youthtime of a Nation Dedicated to Freedom Winning a war is one thing; winning a lasting peace is a sequence of as profound significance. In the story of the drafting and adopting of our Constitution, is drama of quiet intensity not often realized by those who live under its provisions and protection. The Lord has told us that this great charter of freedom is God-inspired. We shall do well to understand it better—to get closer to the story of its making. Some of the literature to be studied in this unit will help achieve that result. Lesson 5. Westward March of America in Literature Widening of national horizons, adventures in charting new roads, carrying the 'White Man's Book of Heaven'' to the Indians, the important part of the Book of Mormon in shaping the destiny of the Farther West—all will be given attention in this study. Following the war for freedom, which gave us a realm reaching from the Atlantic to the "Father of Waters," came the Louisiana Purchase, which extended our boundaries to the Rocky Mountains, and, after that, the frontier advancement to the shores of the Pacific. Our effort will be directed here to get closer to the spirit and meaning of this westward movement through such literature as portrays it truthfully. Lesson 6, Implanting American Civilization Across a Continent In the wake of the explorers and mountain men who charted our country, came the home builders. Settlers of the "blue grass' and Tennessee regions, of the "Land of the Lone Star," covered-wagon pioneers to Oregon and Utah—are in this great drama. The California gold rush, the conquest of arid spaces, which added new stars to the flag, are among the stirring general scenes portrayed in the literature of the period. Choice stories, songs, and other types will be studied to help in the re-creating of this phase of the epic of America's making. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1946 Lesson 7. America through Testing Years This study, centering on the period of struggle to abolish slavery and the holding of the Union, offers opportunity to get closer to the hearts of the people of both sides of the conflict. A wealth of literature, portraying the varied phases of old plantation days, songs, stories, drama, is available. Orations also, dealing with the serious problems of the times, and revealing the inner spirit and meaning of America, as a freedom-loving nation, mark this period. There is also an abundance of literature expressive of the heroism on both sides of the testing conflict, and its aftermath of peace with the Union preserved. Lesson 8. America—Land of All Nations Lured by the spirit of liberty and by expanded opportunity, people of every clime have come to make America their home. Under our protecting flag and Constitution, those of honest purpose are learning the American way of life, and becoming honest, useful, co-operative citizens. Latter-day Saints, having in large measure been gathered from all the world, and those who are "honest in heart" having learned how to work unitedly for the up-building of God's kingdom on earth, are in a position to give understanding help to those struggling to adapt themselves to the new life in this land of freedom—to self-govemment. Literature, offered in this study, will help bring us closer to the problem— will guide us in assisting others as well as ourselves to work concertedly in promoting civic righteousness, in making this a land of God-fearing folk, such as it must be to continue a land of liberty. General References: First, a good history of our country. Such a volume will doubtless be found in most home libraries. Certainly one may be rather readily obtained from the texts used in high schools, or in a public library. Second, a good collection of poems portraying our history. One of the best we have found is Poems of American History — Revised Edition, Burton E. LESSON DEPARTMENT Stevenson. This in shorter form — American History in Verse-—by the same editor, will serve helpfully. Third, specific references to poetry, 487 fiction, drama, oratory, and other literature are given with each study. Most of these may be found in home, school, and public libraries. Lesson I—Our American Indians in Literature For Tuesday, October 15, 1946 Ye who love a nation's legends, Love the ballads of a people, That like voices from afar off Call to us to pause and listen, Speak in tones so plain and childlike, Scarcely can the ear distinguish Whether they are sung or spoken— Listen to this Indian legend, To this Song of Hiawatha! Ye whose hearts are fresh and simple, Who have faith in God and Nature, Who believe that in all ages Every human heart is human, That in even savage bosoms There are longings, yearnings, strivings For the good they comprehend not, That the feeble hands and helpless, Groping blindly in the darkness, Touch God's right hand in that darkness, And are lifted up and strengthened— Listen to this simple story, To this Song of Hiawatha! "THESE lines from the introduction to a great epic portraying the true heart and spirit of the red men, strike a clear keynote for this study. Not only has the poet Longfellow preserved in this epic many precious legends created by the Indians themselves, but he has revealed what too many folk overlook in these children of the open spaces— their truly religious nature. It was from a student of Indian life, Schoolcraft, that the poet Longfellow obtained first hand _ stories and other materials out of which much of the poem, Hiawatha, was created. How well the work was done is attested by the fact that the epic has won approval from those of high rank among the Indians themselves. "We look upon it as our poem," an educated Indian lady told the writer in Oklahoma a few years ago. "Hiawatha is our national hero." Any study of literature portraying the Indian may well begin with an appreciative study of the "Song of Hiawatha." Like other great epics, it is a hero tale—made of many tales centered in a dominant character. Fact and fancy are inwoven to bring out the deeds and qualities of the hero. Naturally, one might expect in a tale of this kind depicting Indian life and ideals, a warlike leader. On the contrary, Hiawatha is a great peace-loving, constructive chieftain. The poem, according to Longfellow, "4s grounded on a tradition prevalent among the North American Indians of a personage of miraculous birth, who was sent among them to clear their rivers, forests, fishing grounds, and to teach them the arts of peace." All the admirable qualities of courage, kindliness, physical prowess turned to goodly deeds were in his nature. As portrayed by the poet, Hiawatha, son of the Westwind and the Prairie Lily, who dies deserted, is reared by his grandmother, Nokomis. We see him in a natural, Indian childhood, watch his develop- 488 ing youth. Then, after a testing combat with his father, ending in the sire's acknowledgement of wrong—and in reconciliation with his son, Hiawatha is given his commission of service for his people. Following this comes "Hiawatha's Fasting"—a practice of purification for Indian youth. In this story ls the legend of the bringing of Indian com—a precious gift of food from the Great Spirit. Through his faith and his fasting Hiawatha finally sees the youth, Mondamin: Dressed in garments green and yellow, Coming through the purple twilight, Through the splendor of the sunset; Plumes of green bent o'er his forehead, And his hair was soft and golden. And to Hiawatha—faint from fasting—this youth says: I, the friend of man, Mondamin, Come to warn you and instruct you, How by struggle and by labor You shall gain what you have prayed for... Rise, O youth, and wrestle with me. Added details of the interesting legend will be found in the poem. Suffice it to say here, that out of this testing struggle came at last the Indian corn: And before the summer ended Stood the maize in all its beauty, With its shining robes about it, And its long, soft, yellow tresses; And in rapture Hiawatha Cried aloud, "It is Mondamin! Yes, the friend of man, Mondamin!" Then he called to old Nokomis And Iagoo, the great boaster, Showed them where the maize was growing, Told them of his wondrous vision, Of his wrestling and his triumph, Of his new gift to the nations, Which should be their food forever. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1946 Added to this legend, others of significance are woven into the epic of Hiawatha. Within the lines of these stories is also something more — interesting, descriptive touches portraying the life and customs of our Indians. We see, for example, how they built their graceful birchbark canoes, how they fished and hunted, how they were entertained round the fireside with stories by those, like old Iagoo, who knew how to tell them. Best remembered among the parts of the epic are those portraying the romance of the hero with the Arrow-maker's daughter, Minnehaha. In "Hiawatha's Wooing," the Indian courtship is pictured with artistry; in "Hiawatha's Wedding Feast," we are given a close view of the customs and joys of Indian life. A few lines will serve here as illustrative of the sweet wholesomeness with which the poet has told the story: As unto a bow the cord is, So unto the man is woman; Though she bends him, she obeys him, Though she draws him, yet she follows; Useless each without the other! Thus the youthful Hiawatha Said within himself and pondered,... Dreaming still of Minnehaha, Of the lovely Laughing Water, In the land of the Dacotahs. "Wed a maiden of your people," Warning, said the old Nokomis;... "Like a fire upon the hearthstone Is a neighbor's homely daughter, Like the starlight or the moonlight Is the handsomest of strangers!...' Then, with a grandmother's solicitude, she adds: "Bring not here a useless woman, Hands unskillful, feet unwilling; Bring a wife with nimble fingers, Heart and hand that move together, Feet that run on willing errands!" LESSON DEPARTMENT To which the smiling youth replies: "In the land of the Dacotahs Lives the Arrow-maker's daughter, Minnehaha, Laughing Water, Handsomest of all the women... She shall run upon your errands, Be your starlight, moonlight, firelight, Be the sunlight of my people!" Straightway, in his moccasins of magic, he goes to win this lovely girl. As he nears her home, he kills a red deer, flings it across his strong shoulders, and, reaching the tepee of the Arrow-maker, responds to the welcome that awaits him by laying the deer at the doorway. This is a symbol of not only his skill, but of his ability to provide for his household. Minnehaha, with the consent of her father, follows her lover back to his homeland. In "Hiawatha's Wedding Feast," we are given the welcome of the home folk. After feasting on typical Indian food, came typical entertainment. Characters who perform for the guests are Chibbabos, who sings "Onaway, Awake Beloved," a sweet Indian love song; Iagoo, who tells an Indian story; and Pau-Puk-Keewis, spirit of the stormwind, who dances the dizzying Beggars Dance. In all this we see and feel Indian spirit and life—done by the creative touch of a great American poet. In "Blessing the Cornfields," we see the red men at peace, carrying forward their varied activities. A sacred ceremony in which Minnehaha plays the leading role is also portrayed. Another canto, "Picture Writing," shows something of their record keeping and symbolism, an art ascribed to their teacher, Hiawatha, who, legend has it: 489 In his wisdom taught the people All the mysteries of painting,... On the smooth bark of the birch-tree, On the white skin of the reindeer, On the grave-posts of the village. Days of difficulty and sorrow follow the times of peace. Friends of Hiawatha pass away. Troublemakers spread evil among his people. Finally comes hunger and disease with attendant tragedy. In "The Famine," we are given a most vivid portrayal of the sufferings visited upon the hero and his loved ones, and the passing of his heart's dearest Minnehaha. Poetic description of high artistry and deep feeling — springing, it has been said, out of the loss of the author's own beloved wife—is in this part of the epic. What follows is likewise of high quality, and of historical significance. In "The White Man's Foot," beginning with a sweet legend of the springtime, we are given also the story by Iagoo of the coming of the white men. The Indian folk all laugh derisively at the strange tale—all but Hiawatha, who says: "True is all Iagoo tells us; I have seen it in a vision... Seen the people with white faces,.. From the regions of the morning,.. The Great Spirit, the Creator,. Sends them to us with his message." In the last of the cantos, "Hiawatha's Departure," the coming of the white man is portrayed. To the tribes of the northland, in which the poem has its main setting, it was the black-robe chief, the Jesuit missionary. Welcomed by the Indian leader, this stranger tells the assembled red men "the purport of his mission" and relates to them the 490 sacred story of the Savior, "how he fasted, prayed and labored" for the blessing and uplift of all. Hiawatha, commending the words to his people, takes the kindly stranger into his wigwam, gives him food and rest. Then, feeling that a new light has come for the red men, and that his work of uplift and blessing has been done, he quietly bids farewell to old Nokomis, and departs —sailing westward in his magic canoe: To the regions of the home-wind,.. To the Islands of the Blessed, To the Kingdom of Ponemah, To the Land of the Hereafter! It is a parting similar in spirit to that of King Arthur and of other heroes round whom epics have been created. As with these other hero tales, more than just the story of a great character comes from reading the composite tale. In the epic is portrayed the life, the customs, the legends, the spiritual nature of the people. Another thing of import: To get the feel, the music, the pictures of Hiawatha and other hero tales, one must follow the advice of Longfellow: Lend to the rhyme of the poet The beauty of thy voice. In the simple repetitious lines of this Indian tale, is rhythm, cadence, charm. Words from the tongue of the red men lend themselves to expressive oral reading. Observe, for example, the musical beauty of lines such as these: In the vale of Tawasentha In the green and silent valley, Dwelt the singer Nawadaha. Round about the Indian village Spread the meadows and the cornfields, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1946 And beyond them stood the forest, Stood the groves of singing pine-trees. Every line of the poem, indeed, and each of the Indian words used to give it color and atmosphere, has a musical quality. 'To read the choice stories and lyrics in it aloud is to get recreation of sweet, wholesome type, is to get closer to the true heart of our American Indian. Moreover, an appreciative study of Hiawatha gives a basic knowledge of Indian life for the evaluation and enjoyment of other well - written, wholesome portrayals of the red men. What we have been given through the years, too frequently, is pictures of this people as savages. Doubtless they did exhibit savage qualities many times; perhaps we should nave done the same had we been forced to meet as they did the sawtooth edge of a rather cruel civilzation. Despite the ruthlessness of uncivilized whites who fought and plundered, however, we do get sume remarkable examples, at times, of nobility, kindliness, and good sense from the Indian men and women whom the varied groups of Americans met in the settlement of this vast country. With such names as Squanto, friend of the Pilgrims; Pocahontas, who he'ped save John Smith and the Virginia adventurers; Sacajawea, Bird Weman of the Lewis and Clark expedition; Washakie, friend of tlic Utah pioneers, ever come stories that lift our thoughts of the Indian to higher levels. Fortunately, some 'cf our writers of earlier days and new, have portrayed for us the better side of the red men—at the same time not forgetting the other side—for LESSON DEPARTMENT "there ate Indians and Indians," just as there are white men and white men. James Fennimore Cooper is one of the authors who has given us a fair appraisal of Indian character. Both sides of the picture are por trayed in his classic Leatherstocking Tales, He was close enough to the Indian life in the region of the "Fingerlake country" of old New York to gather materials for his creative work. Most widely known of his novels is Last of the Mohicans —frequently studied in high school. One admirable character in that intriguing story is Uncas, a young chieftain of high quality. Another author who has left us a classic Indian story is Helen Hunt Jackson. In her Ramona, a tale of old California, she gives us a picture of Indian life and characters during the closing days of the old missions. Impact with unscrupulous whites in the wake of the "gold rush" brings tragic consequences to the red men. It is a theme that stirred the nghteous ire not only of this fine American writer, but of many others who felt the wrongs heaped on an inoffensive folk. Our Indians, it should be ever remembered, are human beings. Appreciating this truth, and it should be comparatively easy for those schooled in the gospel as taught by the Latter-day Saints to do so, we shall better understand the soul of the Indian. An experience of the writer, that of co-operating with "Uncle Nick" Wilson in creating The White Indian Boy, brought a nearer view of the real red folk in their home life, their struggles for food and clothing, their affection 491 for children, and their other human traits. 'To live through those days that this Mormon boy actually did for two years of tepee life as the adopted son of Chief Washakie's snother, is to learn the true heart of the Indian. Another book of recent creation by Frank Linderman will bring something of the same knowledge _this from the Indian himself. In American, a firsthand life story of Chief Plenty Coos, of the Crow tribe, we live the life of an Indian boy. His training, his fasting, his fighting, his life contacts with not only Indians but whites, are simply, convincingly portrayed in the volume. In various dramas the red men have been portrayed, not, however, as major but rather as minor characters. One of our writers, who fora time lived in Utah, Edwin Milton Royle, created in his play The Squaw Man such a drama of popular appeal. Often in these days of photoplays, we have Indian characters, done less appreciatively, and generally with the red man depicted with too much savagery. Of Indian poetry and music much might be written, but only a few lines to stimulate further study can be offered here. To these red children, as to the Hawaiians and negrces, it seems just natural to sing. Thurlow Lieurance, creator of the popular song "By the Waters of Minnetonka," and an outstanding student of Indian music, says, "I am convinced that the Indian has a theme for every activity and characteristic of his life. His best songs are his spiritual songs." Some of these spontaneous songs 492 have been caught and recorded, it would seem, with fidelity to their spirit. Outstanding artist-students in this field are Natalie Curtis Burlin, who gave us a great contribution in The Indian's Book, and Mary Austin, author of The Path of the Rainbow and The American Rhythm. A few lines from poems found in these volumes will serve here to illustrate the delicate beauty and spirit of Indian lyrics at their best: These are from songs translated by Natalie Curtis Burlin: HOLY SONG All was revealed to me From the beginning Know I all, hear me! All was revealed to mel (Now saith the spirit, Tell of me; Dream thou!) SONG AFTER RAIN Now behold! Through bright clusters of flowers Yellow butterflies Are chasing at play, All through the blossoming beans Blue butterflies Are chasing at play. Ann Nolan Clark is another author who has given us some Indian lyrics of delicate quality (see History Sings by Hazel Gertrude Kinscella for the following and others): NIGHT Night is outside In his black blanket. I hear him Talking to the wind. I do not know him. He is outside. I am here In my mother's hogan, Warm in my sheepskin Close to my mother. The things I know are around me Like a blanket, Keeping me safe From these things RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1946 Which are strange, Keeping me safe. All the trust of childhood, and the tenderness of mother love are in these lines. Natalie Curtis Burlin has suggested something of the difficulty and the conscientious work involved in delving into the "unexplored riches of the religious, poetic and musical thought of a stranger race" —and setting before "the white race something of the art life (which is the soul life) of a simpler, yet more profound people." The Canadian Indian poet, Pauline Johnson, has written many excellent poems about her people. Some of the best known are published in the volume Flint and Feather. We all have much to learn from these first Americans. This study can only be an "Open Sesame" to the treasures in the theme. Latterday Saints, of all people, should be leaders in the search for these riches. Discussion and Activities 1. Hight lights from Hiawatha — Be prepared to take part in reading aloud five to ten brief excerpts from this poem, assigned by the teacher, to give something of its spirit and its story. For example: "Wabun, the East Wind," Canto II. "Nokomis and Baby Hiawatha," Canto III. (Begin "At the door on summer evenings" to "Blossom in_ that _heaven above us.") Make other brief selections. Plan for ten to fifteen minutes presentation. 2. Indians in Fiction—Be prepared to give an introduction of not more than two minutes to any one of the following characters: Uncas, Ramona, or another Indian character you feel is well portrayed in literature, fitcion or drama. To make sure the introduction is held within two minutes, it will be well to write a par3- graph or two on the character. 3. Find in the books listed below, an Indian lyric, and be ready to read it: LESSON DEPARTMENT Bibliography Austin, Mary: The Path of the Rainbow Burlin, Natalie Curtis: The Indian's Book, Harper and Bros. Cooper, James Fennimore: Last of the Mohicans Jackson, Helen Hunt: Ramona Kinscella, Hazel Gertrude: History Sings, University Pub. Co. Linderman: American, World Book Co. Longfellow, Henry Wadsworth: Song of Hiawatha, Houghton Mifflin Co. Untermeyer: American Poetry to Whitman, Harcourt Brace and Co. Wilson and Driggs: White Indian Boy, World Book Co. For Summer Reading The following list of books, to which references are made in the literature course, 1946-47, 18 printed herewith with the thought that members may wish to read some of them during the summer. It is not recommended that they be purchased for a Relief Society library: Aldrich, Bess Streeter: A Lantern in Her Hand Atherton: The Conqueror Austin, Mary: The Path of the Rainbow Bacheller, Irving: Dri and I Benet, Stephen Vincent: Western Star Binns: The Land is Bright Burlin, Natalie Curtis: The Indian's Book Burke: Conciliation with America Churchill, Winston: The Crisis Constitution of the United States Cooper, James Fennimore: Last of the Mohicans Driggs-Lippincott: Westward America Drinkwater: Abraham Lincoln Eastman, Charles A.: Indian Boyhood Ferber, Edna: So Big Garland, Hamlin: Daughter of the Middle Border Hafen, Ann Woodbury: Quenched Fire and other poems Hawthorne, Nathaniel: Grandfather's Chair Hawthorne, Nathaniel: The Scarlet Letter 493 Hebard, Dr. Grace Raymond: Sacajawea Hill, J. W.: Lincoln, Man of God Holmes, Oliver Wendell: The Wonderful One Hoss Shay Hough: Covered Wagon Irving, Washington: Astoria Irving, Washington: Legend of Sleepy Hollow Irving, Washington: Rip Van Winkle Jackson, Helen Hunt: Ramona Johnston, Mary: To Have and to Hold Kinscella, Hazel Gertrude: History Sings Linderman: American Longfellow, Henry Wadsworth: Hiawatha Longfellow, Henry Wadsworth: The Courtship of Miles Standish Lowell, James Russell: The Courtin' Marsh, Daniel L.: The American Canon Morrow, Honore Willsie: We Must March Miller, Joaquin: Overland in a Covered Wagon Page, Elizabeth: Tree of Liberty Paine, Thomas: Common Sense Paine, Thomas: The Crisis Roberts, Kenneth: Captain Caution Rolvaag, Ole: Giants in the Earth Russell and Driggs: Hidden Heroes of the Rockies Sherwood, R. E.: Abe Lincoln in Illinois South, John C.: The Story of Our Country in Poetry Stevenson, Burton (editor): American History in Verse Stevenson, Burton (editor): Poems of American History Stowe, Harriet Beecher: Uncle Tom's Cabin Z The Autobiography of Benjamin Franklin The Golden Book of Favorite Songs Untermeyer: American Poetry to Whitman White, Stewart E.: The Long Rifle Whittier, John Greenleaf: Mabel. Martin Whittier, John Greenleaf: Snowbound Wilson and Driggs: White Indian Boy and missions that find the literature course unsuitable to their needs. Some Relief ocieties are located in foreignlanguage Missions, where the les- *Ons dealing with American litera. They h that true teligion and life are insepof conduct during Mortality. During the year these lessons will trace the course of man's immortal life, beginning with his pre-earth CX- LESSON DEPARTMENT Lesson 1. Man's Earth Life Objective: To show that mankind passed through a pre-existent state, during which preparations were made for an earth life, in terms of a plan of salvation that might lead to exaltation. Lesson 2. The General Gospel Plan Objective: 'To inspire the members to realize the priceless value of their free agency as a necessary part of the gospel plan, and its part in eternal progression. Lesson 3. Faith Objective: 'To demonstrate that faith is a principle of action, giving power to the believer whereby great things may be achieved in life. Lesson 4. Repentance Objective: To illustrate the fact that repentance is a process through which we grow from wrong-doing to improved conduct, and draw closer to God. Lesson 5. Baptism Objective: To explain the symbolism and meaning of baptism in terms of its relationship to being "born again," into an improved way of living within the gospel fold. Lesson 6. Laying on of Hands for the Gift of the Holy Ghost Objective: To explain the nature of the Holy Ghost and its function in the lives of those who have had it bestowed upon them by proper authority. Lesson 7. The Abundant Life Objective: 'To show that service to one's fellow men and the observance of Church standards lead one to the enjoyment of abundant living here and hereafter. 495 Lesson 8. Education and Recreation Objective: To review the interest that the Church has always manifested in education and recreation, and to appreciate the part which these phases of Church endeavor now contribute to the lives of its members. References All the standard works of the Church have been used in the preparation of these lessons, and are referred to in the lessons themselves. In addition, the following widely distributed and much used books furnish good supplementary material: Hunter, Milton R.: The Gospel Through the Ages, Stevens and Wallis, Salt Lake City, Utah, 1945. Smith, Pres. Joseph F.: Gospel Doctrine, Deseret Book Co., Salt Lake City, Utah, 1928. Smith, Joseph Fielding: The Way to Perfection, Genealogical Society of Utah, 1940. Smith, Joseph Fielding: Teachings of the Prophet Joseph Smith, Deseret News Press, Salt Lake City, Utah, 1938. Talmage, James E.: Articles of Faith, Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, Salt Lake City, Utah, 1925. Talmage, James E.: Vitality of Mormonism, Gorham Press, Boston, 1919. Widtsoe, John A.: A Rational Theology, Deseret Book Co., Salt Lake City, Utah, 1937: Widtsoe, John A.: Program of the Church Department of Education, Salt Lake City, Utah, 1936. Young, Pres. Brigham: Discourses of Bngham Young, Deseret Book Co., Salt Lake City, Utah, 1925, 1941. Lesson I—Man's Pre-Earth Life For Tuesday, October 15, 1946 or several days Dr. And Mrs. Jones had looked forward to a night together at the theater. A much advertised three-act mystery play was the attraction. On the evening of the play, shortly before 496 time to depart for the show house, a telephone call notified the doctor of an accident, in which one of his patients was involved. Arranging for a taxi to take his wife to the theater, he promised to join her as soon as he had rendered the necessary assistance to the injured person. The curtain was rising on the second act when at last Dr. Jones took his place at the side of his wife. With his mind unprepared by the first act, he watched the second act develop the complicated mystery which had been introduced before his arrival. As the curtain fell, he had no clear conception of the play and hoped during the intermission to be enlightened by his wife concerning the nature of the plot as it had been portrayed during the first act. At that moment an usher tapped him on the shoulder and whispered, "Dr. Jones, there is a telephone call for you." A new emergency had arisen, and Dr. Jones was forced to leave the theater without having heard an explanation of the first act or having witnessed the clarification that the last would have given. His mind was in a state of bewilderment. The conduct of the actors, their conversation, and the implications and suspicions aroused during the second act of the play seemed to be a confusion of ideas. No wonder his opinion of the play was expressed by his words: "It's a meaningless jumble to me—it doesn't make sense!"' In similar fashion, most of mankind is bewildered by the spectacle of mortal existence, its confusion and the conflicts that are seen on every hand. 'The observable differences in mental capacity, color of RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1946 skin, and geographic location of various peoples seem manifestly unfair in view of a belief in a just God. The manner in which apparent sinners are blessed, while the more righteous suffer untold hardships, anguish, and distress, cause misgivings in the minds of many people concerning the power of God in our lives. 'The great number of people who choose evil instead of good or become confused in trying to decide what is most worthwhile in life, makes the scene of human existence one that may appear to be without ultimate purpose or goal. The reason for this apparent confusion is to be found in the fact that (according to our present knowledge) earthlife is but the second act or period of a three-act drama of eternal living—pre-existence and the hereafter being the first and the third. When an attempt is made to judge the entire plan on the basis of what we observe during its second phase only, it may seem as meaningless to us as the mystery drama did to Dr. Jones. We need to know something of the first period of existence to understand the purpose of the second state, and the third division of existence must be understood in order to comprehend the entire plan of salvation. One of the most basic truths taught by the restored gospel is the fact that man had a conscious existence before he was born on earth. In a revelation given to Joseph Smith, the Lord revealed some enlightening facts concerning the eternal nature of man. He declared:... I was in the beginning with the Father, and am the first-born... Ye were also in the beginning with the Father; LESSON DEPARTMENT that which is Spirit, even the Spirit of truth... Man was also in the beginning with God. Intelligence, or the light of truth, was not created or made, neither indeed can be. All truth is independent in that sphere in which God has placed it, to act for itself, as all intelligence also, otherwise there is no existence. Behold, here is the agency of man, and here is the condemnation of man, because that which was from the beginning is plainly manifest unto them, and they receive not the light... For man is spirit. The elements are eternal, and spirit and element, inseparably connected, receiveth a fulness of joy (Doc. And Cov. 93:21, 23, 29, 3% 31, 33, 34)- Having fathered the spirits of mankind (see Numbers 16:22 and 27:16), God most certainly gave them opportunity for development in those things which were necessary for their advancement. The Eternal Father revealed to Moses that all of his physical creations are purposeful (see Moses 1:33). Knowing this, we can be sure that he would provide the spirits of mankind with some type of purposeful activity and instruction. Just what the nature of this training period was has never been revealed. It was certainly, however, calculated to prepare the spirits for the proper choice in the decision that each must ultimately make. When this training was completed a great council was called in heaven. Here the Father's will was revealed, and a plan proposed for the next stage in the development toward a fulness of joy The plan recognized the need for the creation of bodies of tangible matter in which the spirits that God had created could be embodied. But from this point onward Lucifer and Jesus differed markedly. Satan urged a universal salvation by compulsion for every spirit-child of God, and 497 in addition, he desired to take to himself the honor and glory which belonged to the Father (see Isaiah 14:12-14). Jesus agreed to carry out the Father's will and urged that the opportunity for salvation be given to all, contingent upon the exercise of the free agency of the individual and all the glory be to the Father forever. This was apparently in keeping both with the will of the Father and the previous training of his spirit children. Upon acceptance of the Father's will by Jesus, Satan attempted to impose his plan by force, and then each spirit was given the opportunity to exercise its intelligence and agency. Satan led away one-third of the spirits with him, but the others became heirs of salvation, depending upon their faithfulness and obedience (see Abraham 3:24-28). Individual differences must have existed in this pre-existent state just as they were to appear later in earth life. These differences were appatently the consequences of the effort and diligence exercised by the individual spirits. In a vision, Abraham was permitted to see something of this difference in development that had taken place during the period of pre-mortal existence: And the Lord said unto me: These two facts do exist, that there are two spirits, one being more intelligent than the other; there shall be another more intelligent than they; I am the Lord thy God, I am more intelligent than they all... 1 dwell in the midst of them all... I rule in the heavens above, and in the earth beneath _ over all the intelligences thine eyes have seen from the beginning; I came down in the beginning in the midst of all the intelligences thou hast seen. Now the Lord had shown unto me, Abraham, the intelligences that were organized before 498 the world was; and among all these there were many of the noble and great ones; and God saw these souls that they were good, and he stood in the midst of them, and he said: These I will make my rulers; for he stood among those that were spirits.. And he said unto me: Abraham, thou art one of them; thou wast chosen before thou wast born (Abraham 3:19,21-23). This scripture introduces us to the doctrine of foreordination. Abraham learned that he had been chosen to a position of spiritual leadership long before his earthly birth. A careful study of Abraham 3:19 and 21 indicates that his selection for leadership on earth must have come about because of his greater intelligence and superiority of character that had been gained during his pre-existent life. It was not a result of favoritism on the part of God, nor a capricious whim of the Eternal Father. Rather, it was a reward for meritorious service. God, who is all-wise, could certainly foresee the greatness of Abraham's character and trustworthiness. However, there was no compulsion attached to the selection. Abraham had the right to fulfill the position of leadership assigned to him in the pre-existence, but he could also have rejected the calling. In_ this manner we see that people may be foreordained for certain assignments, but they are not forced to comply. Biblical evidence of this doctrine of foreordination is found in the words of the Lord to the Prophet Jeremiah: Before I formed thee in the belly I knew thee; and before thou camest forth out of the womb I sanctified thee, and J ordained thee a prophet unto the nations (Jeremiah 1:5). RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1946 Brigham Young explained the principle of foreordination in these words: It is a mistaken idea that God has decreed all things whatsoever that come to pass, for the volition of the creature is as free as air. You may inquire whether we believe in foreordination; we do, as strongly as any people in the world. We believe that Jesus was foreordained before the foundations of the world were built, and his mission was appointed him in eternity to be the Savior of the world, yet when he came in the flesh he was left free to choose or refuse to obey his Father... We also are free to choose or refuse the principles of eternal life. God has decreed and foreordained many things that have come to pass, and he will continue to do so; but when he decrees great blessings upon a nation or upon an individual they are decreed upon certain conditions (Discourses of Brigham Young, page 85; 1941 edition, page 55). Having progressed to the point in the pre-existent state that the organized spirits had undergone the necessary apprenticeship, they were ready for the second act of the eternal drama. It was necessary for these intelligent spirits to be embodied in mortality, where new experiences could be gained. Accordingly, preparations were made for this next period of development, namely, that of mortality on this earth. Discussion and Activity Problems. What can we learn concerning Jesus Christ from Ether 3:6-16 and John 1:1-14; 6:62; 16:28; and 17:1-5?. To what extent can an understanding of the pre-existence influence our daily conduct during mortality?. Practically all Christian sects believe nN wa LESSON DEPART MENT that life begins at birth. What reasons can you resent to show that this view lS both unsatisfying and incon sistent? Social Science—'he Family | Social Science Committee, 499 References Smith, Pres. Joseph F.:, trine, PP- 14°26. 'Talmage, —James E.: Articles of Faith pp. 189-194: i Talmage, James E.: Vitality of MorGospel DocDiscourses of 86; 1941 edition, PP- 47-59: Preview of Lessons for \946-47 permanence home ls jeopardized. It is the am of give Latter-day Saint our lives, 8° outside influences are able to permeate the family group. If the individual Latter-day 5 home is carrying forward the proper program of instruction and example. Our homes will be a light and an en sign to the world. The General Board feels that this course will not only be valuable as 4 guide for mothers of out Church who are at present rearing thet chilhave passed through the years of child training will be able to splendid counsel and advice from pooling of experiences, and we Sug gest that these discussions be ¢m™ couraged and that each social science teacher include time for such discus: <jon in her lesson plan. Since these lessons deal primarily with basic Latter-day 5 i i ciples, it 18 expected that the women called to teach them will have 4 firm conviction of their worth and importance, 4) that all references and subject matter taught will be in harmony with the teachings of the Church. We urge that reference material from volumes of Church literature by past and present General Authorities, be freely used. That through conformity to the celestial for eternity. We may gain everlasting jov and exaltation. 500 Lesson 2. The Family Organization Objective: To consider the qualifications necessary for happiness and development within the home, as well as the rights and responsibilities of various members of the family. Lesson 3. The Importance of Child Training Objective: To give specific guidance in child training and to stress the need of developing sound practices in the important calling of parenthood. Lesson 4. Observing a Principle of Prosperity Objective: To discuss wise spending, saving, home ownership, payment of tithes and fast offerings as contributing factors_to the security and prosperity of the family. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1946 Lesson 5. Importance of Religious Instruction in the Home Objective: To show why children should be given religious education in the home and what that instruction should include. Lesson 6. Constructive Use of Time Objective: To stress the necessity for prudent use of time so that the essential needs of life are balanced in correct proportion. Lesson 7. Gratitude in the Home Objective: To show that we should cultivate gratitude in our homes for the many blessings we enjoy and for each other's companionship, and that we should express appreciation to our Heavenly Father through prayer, and righteous living. Lesson |—The Family Unit Eternal For Tuesday, October 22, 1946.. Whatsoever you seal on earth shall be sealed in heaven; and whatsoever you bind on earth, in my name and by my word, saith the Lord, it shall be eternally bound in the heavens eI THE purpose of the family unit is twofold: first, to bring spirits into the world, that they may receive mortal bodies; and second, to provide an environment suitable to the proper growth and development of those spirits, that they may be worthy to return to the presence of God. The home is the foundation and bulwark of society. Its sanctity must be ever guarded if we are to achieve the glorious destiny God has planned for us. Family life as viewed by Latterday Saints is a long-range program which reaches into eternity and is perfect in its concept. If we live the principles of the gospel, we shall be able to carry out the purposes of. (Doc. And Cov. 132: 46). God and receive great joy and glory therefrom. God's Eternal Design Our lives will be more purposeful if we understand that God designed an eternal existence for us. Though our memory of the pre-existence has been taken from us, the gospel teaches that we lived in a pre-mortal state. What did that pre-existence do for us? There we were born spiritually, in that home we associated with the Father of our spints. That life was a necessary preparation for the one we live here. Our life there was free from coercion. We were permitted to live in full fellowship rebellious If chose the course respons? Ility. Man 3s given his free of obedience, developed ith agency here upon earth. He ls ee those who were faithful elearn- 0 choose the he will follow ed that progress comes through the but must account for the actions © acceptance of the gospel plan. We _ this life. Through proper living of developed the pom here it was the gospel W are entitled to know necessary t eceive mort | bodies 19 right from wrong, truth from error order t Tess The gospel lan, if followed, W! Then we were ready for the second bring }°Y and happiness 1 is €s estate Lord disclosed his put tate as W }\ as in the life to come ose for us before we came o mor The Prophet Jo eph ith said, tality, for we T the Pearl © "Happiness lS object and design Great Price of our existence and will b the en thereof if we pursue the path that And_ there stood one among them that was like unto God, and he said ynto those who were with him: We a >< will go down, for there is space game, 'Dvwme Institution of Marriage and we will take of these materials, and The opening drama of human exwe will ke an earth whereon these may:.: well; And we 'ill prove th with, istence upon this earth was intro (Abraham = 3 24-2 unto the ma » (Gen. 2 18,22 en privil gente — body President Joseph F. Smith said: and enter into the secon tate ot mortal life is a great blessing: This institubon of marriage lS not a man-made institution God not omy We came to this earth that we commends but he commands ynarriagemight have @ pody and present it pure He united our first. Parents in the before God in the Celestial kingdom. The bonds of holy matrimony, and comgreat principle of happiness consists 19 manded them to be fruitful and multiply having 4 pody. The devil has_ no body, and replenish the earth - -- Marriage 3S and herein is his punishment. He is pleasthe preserveT of the human race. Withed when he can obtain the tabernacle of out it, the purposes of God would be man, and when cast out by the Savior he frustrated (Gospel Doctrine pp: 34" 342) that he W ja prefer 3 25 body to If those who enter into marrage maving none (Jord 5 a Richards would realize that t is God's eter? And Little's Compendis ems," page plan b qhich spirits come into the 502 President Smith also said: Neither are the telationships that exist, or should exist, between Parents and chil. Dren, and between children and Patents, character, They are of eternal conse. Quence, reaching beyond the veil, in spite of all that we can do. Marriage for Eternity The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints believes im marty. President Heber J. Grant said: The blessings and Promises that come from beginning life for time virtue, love, and all of the other eternal Verities of life, here and hereafter. I believe that many of the troubles of ther require. Ments (Gospel Standards, Page 153), Even the stave is not the end of Our martiage, but only a gateway leading into an enlarged sphere of endless Progression. As 4 loving Companion gazes upon the lifeless Temains of his beloved, he realizes Then because they have all power, and the angels are subject unto them (Doc. And Coy. 132:20), Every Latter-day Saint should be inspired by this exalted destiny of. LESSON DEPARTMENT fered to him. Our hearts should throb with a new determination to claim this blessing, and we should seek to impress on all our associates who do not understand it, the vital importance of obtaining this blessing. Eternal Glory Obtained by Obedience to Law The grandeur of this philosophy of eternal marriage should inspire us in our family circles to more righteous living. With this philosophy we should labor more diligently each day to secure our family unit eternally. There will be problems to solve each day, but with such an inspiring principle we should be able to surmount each crisis. 'The spirit of the Lord abiding in our homes will minimize the troubles and sorrows of life, and enhance the joys of companionship. When a couple is married in the temple, their blessing is predicated upon obedience to law. 'Transgression results in a denial of eternal blessings. Eternity is not gained in a single bound. Each day we build for eternity through righteous conduct in, our daily lives. Temple marriage is a glorious experience for any couple. 'The peaceful and beautiful surroundings are most impressive and uplifting. Having a servant of God perform the ceremony—one holding the priesthood with the power to seal on earth and it shall be sealed in the heavens, makes the union sacred and binding. Young people should be trained from childhood to live up to the requirements for entrance into the House of the Lord, then last-minute 503 reforms will not be necessary. They should be taught the benefits of temple marriage so that they will prepare themselves and look forward to this great privilege. Our children who are born in the Priesthood are legal heirs, and entitled to the revelations of the Lord... (Discourses of Brigham Young, page 303). Our family units will be secured by our obedience to the law of the gospel, and this obedience will entitle us to "pass by the angels, and the gods, which are set there..." (Doc. And Cov. 132:19) to our exaltation. Guidance for Discussion 1, What truths are revealed in scripture regarding our pre-existence? (Pearl of Great Price: Abraham 3:21-23; Moses 3:5; Book of Mormon: Ether 3:15-16; Doc. And Cov. 93:29.) 2. Did our conduct in pre-existence have any influence upon our life in mortality? (Abraham 3:24-26.) 3. What effect does the concept of the divine institution of marriage have upon our family living? 4. In what sense does temple marriage have a stabilizing effect on the family? 5. Discuss the evils of divorce. 6. How may the present alarming divorce rate be curbed? General References Standard a orks of the Church: Bible, Gen. 2:18-24; 1 Cor. 11:11. Doc. And Cov. 132:19. Pearl of Great Price, Moses 3:18; 5:11; Abraham 5:14. Latter-day Saint Writers: Clark, Pres. J. Reuben, Jr.: "Our Homes," The Relief Society Magazine, XXVII (December 1940), pp. 801-810. Grant, Pres. Heber ].: Gospel Standards, Chapter on ''Marriage and Family Life," page 152 McKay, Pres. David O.: "Marriage and 504 Divorce," Improvement Era, May 1945, page 238. Smith, Pres. Joseph F.: Gospel Doctrine, Chapter on "Marriage, the Home and Family," page 341. Smith, Joseph Fielding: The Restoration of All Things, "The Eternal Marriage Covenant," Chap. 25, pp. 236-2455 and "The Eternity of the Family," Chap. 26, pp. 246-255. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1946 Talmage, James E.: The Vitality of Mormonism, Chapter on "Celestial Marriage," page 230. Young, Pres. Brigham: Discourses _ of Brigham Young, Chapter on "The Family," page 300; 1941 edition, page 194. Editorial, ""God's Mode of Marriage," Church Section, Deseret News, April 6, 1946. TO A GREAT LEADER Bertha M. Rosevear Like sentinels that guard a sacred shrine, Great towering mountains stand in martial line, And safe within their shadow, as foretold, A holy temple lifts its spires old, A testimony proud to pioneers Who colonized the western rough frontiers. Omnipotence revealed that favored land, And by his Prophet led a chosen band Of faithful saints, across a sun-parched plain; Their burning lips knew not the touch of rain, Unfaltering they trudged that weary space Until their Jeader said: "This is the place." Undaunted still, though far as eye could see The desert spread her arms, no friendly tree Or cooling stream bespoke of verdant field, Or hinted of a bounteous harvest yield, Humbly they breathed a fervent prayer to God, Then straightway rose to plow the virgin sod. Brigham Young /M-U-S-1-C University FALL QUARTER SPECIALLY SUITABLE FOR RELIEF SOCIETY I LOVE A LITTLE COTTAGE (O'Hara) ols OCTOBER 1 FLAG WITHOUT A STAIN (White) B) (3). F U ae Increased Academic Offerings St Ree ape a sy); PEACE I LEAVE WITH YOU Outstanding Cultural Course (Roberta) 10 Broad Extracurricular Opportunities Well-Planned Religious Program Enroll at the Church University For a catalogue, write The President Brigham Young University Above numbers in octavo. Less 10% discount plus postage. We specialize in L. D. S. Church music. Also carry large stock for schools and home use. Dealers in Steinway and Lester pianos, band and orchestra instruments, talking machines. Records and musicians' supplies. DAYNES MUSIC CO. We solicit your patronage Provo, Utah 57 So. Main St. Salt Lake City 1 Now—as never before—you must know how to live well on a restricted diet! To help combat starvation in Europe and Asia, America must share its bounty by eating less. To do your part more effectively —READ THIS BOOK— 'How To Be Well'' By LEAH D. WIDTSOE FILLED WITH RECIPES AND VALUABLE INFORMATION BASED ON THE NEWER KNOWLEDGE OF NUTRITION. IT SHOWS YOU AND YOUR FAMILY HOW TO ENJOY BETTER HEALTH, MORE ECONOMICALLY, THROUGH PROPER DIET. SEND FOR 5 YOUR COPY NOW. $0 DESERET BOOK COMPANY THE BOOK CENTER OF THE INTERMOUNTAIN WEST 44 East South Temple P. O. Box 958 Salt Lake City 10, Utah Enclosed is $00.00...) Send.............. Copies of "How to Be Well' at $2.00 per copy. 0b re Aiddres............---.-s-s-ceesceceecseeeseseeereeeseseeees When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine Enlarged Instructional Staff ALICE BLUE GOWN (Tierney) —..20 U. S. POSTAGE 2c Paid SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH PERMIT No. 690 "For some must push and some must pull, As we go marching up the hill; So merrily on the way we go Until we reach the valley, O pos We give thanks for the West's pioneers. They were people of great courage and vision. ENEFICIAL LIFE INSURANCE cOMPANY HOME SO LIFE BUILDING SALT LAKE City 1, UTAH GEORGE ALBERT SMITH. PRESIDENT MAGAZINE RELIEF SOCIETY VOL. 33 NO. 8 Lessons for November AUGUST 1946 THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Monthly publication of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints RELIEF SOCIETY GENERAL BOARD Belle 8. Spatford Marianne C. Sharp Gertrude R. Garff Margaret C. Pickering - - President - First Counselor - Second Counselor - - - Secretary-Treasurer rr eas en Achsa Ee; Paxman Edith S. Elliott Leone G. Layton Leone O. Jacobs Mar Judd Priscilla L. Evans _ Blanche B. Stoddard Velma N. Simonsen Moa k N. Adams Florence J. Madsen Evon W. Peterson Isabel B. Callister Anna B. Hart Ann P, Nibley RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Editor - - - - - - - - - - Marianne C. Sharp Editorial Secretary - - - - - - - - Vesta P. Crawford General Manager - - - - - ~ - - -. Belle S. Spafford ol. 33 AUGUST 1946 No. 8 Conten ts SPECIAL FEATURES The Importance of Thrift Elder Alma Sonne 507 Cache Valley—Part of the Mormon Epic a. Caroline Eyring Miner 510 Pioneer Stories and Incidents: The Indians of Utah and the Black Hawk Warr..0.......0.00000004+President = Brown Lyman 515 Garden Making for Centennial Days azel D. Moyle 517 Photographing Your Children 2...%. Willard Luce 526 Heavenly Harmony Rachel B. Ballantyne 53] Menus—By the Day Or By the 'Week 220...... Cccccccescesecesesesecsseecensnsncnecsnanence a Snow _ FICTION Night Callers: Gladys Dewey 522 Faith Is a Heritage—Chapter 9 no... Sne--ceccccccnseceeecceceeesencecesesneccsoensnenscarsesboetacadChristie Lund Coles 542 GENERAL FEATURES Sixty Years Ago 53 Woman's Sphere h s:.---Ramona W. Cannon $33 Editorials: Personal Development Through Service... * Gertrude R. Gartf $34 May Anderson—Friend of the Children 535 Notes to the Field: Annual Relief Society General Conference 535 Neale From the Field: General Activities and Special Programs—(Continued)......0........ Cccseeee General Secretary-Treasurer, Margaret C. Pickering 546 LESSON DEPARTMENT Theology: The Priesthood Quorums Expanded....0..225.8o)..--:2.--c--cceeetteeeeElder "H. Wayne Driggs 551 Visiting Teachers' Messages: Love of Fellow Man.. President Amy Brown Lyman 554 Work Meeting—Sewing: The Use of Tools and Treatment of Materials Work Meeting Caueepee 555 Literature: Colonial Founders of America in Literature... Elder Howard R. Driggs on The Mayflower Compact Optional Lessons in Lieu of Literature: The General Gospel Plan......... Elder T. Edgar Lyon ee Social Science: The Family Organization 0.0.0.2... Secial Science Committee 570 POETRY And What of Time—Frontispiece.. Nsceceveceeercensnsseecsaenesoeesaseseenae si Mabel Jones Gabbott 505 Skull Valley...... Rr Beatrice K, Ekman 516 ES Co 1 S ( 2) Serer er rrJessie Miller Robinson 530 The Silent Bard.0..0....... Snenacensosensasenttttosenense tiEvelyn Fijelsted $31 The New Testament............ Bn sesenau ll was cone Dorothy J. Roberts 553 Nilerbeugracrl | RVers ews oreo wren nove SEE not ve wn dons enea eee nREE Raa eeEnEEEDella Adams Leitner 564 Priceless Gem o.... N...... Escecccecesceceeneeseeeecceeeeeees - Ruth H. Chadwick 565 snnesecense aeIris Schow 575 Late Traveler..... G. Gwen Kelsey 576 The Old Hooked Rug PUBLISHED MONTHLY BY THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY Editorial and Business Offices: 28 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City 1, Utah, Phone 3-2741. Ex. 243. Subscription Price: $1.00 a year; foreign, $1.00 a year; payable in advance. Single copy, 10c. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires, Renew promptly so that no copies will » missed. Report change of address at once, giving both old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, vatien the act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of 'October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts. MAGAZINE CIRCULATION, 77,500 Self-Confidence... The Poplars.... Scscssccssssssscessssececescecesssecsessnsececcsecseeeenscncnocessesenss succesesassncensesenccesrarecessarsosaenansesseesnoteees saaKatherine Fernelius Larsen 514 Thelma Ireland. 569 THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE AND WHAT OF TIME Mabel Jones Gabbott And what of time? Is it a stream That flows in season's cycles through Life's valley? Is it running sand That turns life's hourglass for you? Can it be measured by the spring, The summer, the ensuing fall, Or charted into days and months To robin's chirp and wild geese call? Of time there is no measuring, For it is boundless. All the days Of yesteryear are voiced this dawn In our weak, fumbling, groping wavs; And all tomorrow's promise; all Its dreams are inextricably Linked with the doings of this hour To fashion our eternity. The Cover: "Mirror Lake in the High Uintahs." From a photograph by Grace O. Tuttle VOL. 33, NO. 8 AUGUST 1946 ~_ -_ © eatin © ee Photograph by Grace O. Tuttle "SYMPHONY IN BLUE AND WHITE" White Daisies and Turquoise Blue Delphiniums The Importance of Thrift Elder Alma Sonne Assistant to the Council of the Twelve Apostles HE Church, functioning and operating through its members, is the most effective character building agency in the world. It has always stood for nght living and constructive thinking in all the phases of human life. It stands for intellectual, moral, and _ spiritual progress. Its aim is to strengthen the security, the happiness, and the independence of every home, and to protect the family against fallacious doctrines, subversive tendencies, and destructive forces that now threaten the stability of organized society. The family is the unit of everyday life. It is the moral, spiritual, and economic unit. Every stimulation and encouragement should be given to upbuild and protect the family and the home. Twenty-five hundred years ago the Greek, Socrates, told his students they would be happier if they would study the problems of the home and such fundamental things as thrift, industry, and the wise management of the family income. Surely, a measure of financial independence is as precious and important to men and women as political independence. It is worth all the striving and sacrifice necessary for its achievement. Much of the unhappiness in the world is due to poor economics, selfish pleasures, and thoughtless indulgences. An easy, carefree life, without purpose and plan, will undermine character and weaken the moral fiber of men and women. It has been said that Charles Dickens regarded the parable of the prodigal son as the most beautiful story in all literature. It is not diffi cult to picture the wayward son re. Turning to his home, disillusioned and thoroughly repentant. He had "wasted his substance with riotous living." Worse still, he had wasted his life and dissipated his powers. Therein lay the tragedy of a spendthrift's life. Haphazard use of time, money, and energy means a poor return and is devoid of satisfaction. Devotion to a purposeful plan calls for strength and determination, and lays the foundation for a well-ordered, independent life. A thrifty person looks ahead; he practices self control and prepares for emergencies that may arise. He faces life with a positive, self-reliant attitude and seeks to fit himself for an opportunity when it comes. Abraham Lincoln's life began in a wretched home amid poverty and discouragements. By sheer determination and a resolute spirit, he overcame, what appeared to be, an insurmountable handicap. He was motivated always by a strong desire to go forward and to improve his condition. All through his life he exemplified the principles of thrift and hard work, preparing carefully and thoughtfully for future responsibilities. In doing so, he gained Page 507 508 strength and wisdom, and thus fortified himself to withstand the forces which were conspiring against him. Nowhere is thrift more important than in the home. Nowhere are the consequences of extravagance and waste more destructive of human happiness. Ordinarily, the proper management of a home is a full-time job. It calls for wisdom, determination, and __ perseverance. The mother who neglects the home to augment the family income or to engage in futile amusements and social pastimes, frequently does so at a great cost and a sacrifice of family solidarity. It is estimated that seventy- -five per cent of the family income is spent either directly or indirectly by the housewife. This expenditure covers items which are essential to the happiness and well-being of the entire family. Any plan that will be helpful in solving the domestic problem of income and outgo is worthy of careful thinking and thorough consideration. To devise and to put into successful operation such a plan offers a challenge to the wisest and most businesslike household. The prudent and conscientious homemaker will welcome any suggestion that will strengthen the family economics. A budget is a financial plan by which the spending and investment of money is controlled. Its purpose is to avoid loose, thoughtless, and wasteful methods. It deals with such items as food, clothing, shelter, doctor bills, amusement, charity, insurance, savings, contributions, and many others that come up for consideration in a family. Adherence RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST 1946 to a budget probably means a greater effort, a more frugal fare, and a severe discipline; but it also means a sense of security and worthiness, a conservation of resources, and a step towards a prosperous and productive life, and, certainly, a step away from vice, luxury, and ostentation. Calvin Coolidge, who had a reputation for frugality and thnft, speaking to a gathering of newspapermen, made the following statement: Extravagance lengthens the hours and diminishes the rewards of labor. I favor the policy of economy, not because I wish to save money, but because I wish to save people. Every dollar that we carelessly waste means that their life will be so much the more meager. Every dollar that we prudently save means that their life will be so much the more abundant. Thrift, in its broadest sense, consists of the efficient and productive direction of one's energies. It enters into every field of honorable endeavor. The artist who paints a picture employs thrifty habits, for he builds upon something he has already achieved. The housewife who patiently and methodically adds comfort and attractiveness to the home practices thrift. So does the farmer who plants, cultivates, fertilizes, and increases the productivity of his fields. There is no progress without thrift. It is the cornerstone of our entire industrial life. The old-fashioned economic virtues are as sound today as they were when the pioneers laid the foundations of all we have and are. They are fundamentally and _ essentially progressive, and point the way to a better and a more satisfying life. THE IMPORTANCE OF THRIFT PyXTRAVAGANCE is misdirected and wasted energy. It is the road that leads to poverty and disappointment. It undermines character and robs one of the power to proceed safely and constructively. It is a source of embarrassment and discomfiture, and frustrates all] plans and purposes for better living and a more comfortable existence. It comes from a craving for things to which people are not entitled until they have worked and saved to provide such enjoyment and possession. There is no grander spectacle in the world than that of a husband and wife girding their loins for the battle of life, all barriers crumbling before them. To them belong the fruits of honest labor and persistent effort.. Waste in any form is an enemy to the individual, the home, and the nation. Brigham Young said: Let nothing go to waste. Never consider that you have bread enough around you to suffer your children to waste a crust or a crumb of it. If a man is worth millions of bushels of wheat and corn, he is not wealthy enough to suffer his servant girl to sweep a single kernel of it into the fire. Remember it, do not waste anything, but take care of everything. Such was the economic philosophy of the great pioneer colonizer whose wisdom and leadership subdued deserts, built towns and cities, and established a thriving commonwealth. But, above all things, Brigham Young was anxious to preserve the stability of the home. Waste and extravagance have wrecked homes and brought despair and misery to many families, Too many young people, as they assume the responsibility of home- 509 making, insist on beginning married life with all the comforts and conveniences of their parental home. They fail to take into consideration the long struggle and the frugal habits which have made possible the establishment and maintenance of that home. Often the parents are too indulgent with children and permit them to set up standards and to form habits far beyond their power and ability to sustain. The excessive use of the family automobile has lured many a youth away from the path of industry and duty. Extravagant tastes in the matter of food, clothing, amusements, and such other demands as clever advertisin promotes, have been allowed to de. Velop without regard for the welfare and securityof home and family. Frequently, a selfish desire and an unworthy ambition to outflaunt neighbors and friends, regardless of the means at one's disposal, are back of many ill-advised and unnecessary expenditures. National thrift is a bulwark against chaos and disintegration. It begins in the homes of the people, for no nation can rise above the stability, the integrity, the sanctity, and the coherence of its family group. Whatever perils the family, perils the nation. The laws of progress and growth are eternal. The pioneers survived because they were thrifty and industrious. They developed the virtue to struggle and wait and to possess their souls in patience. They looked ahead and made provisions for the future. Sometimes their tations were short and their food very simple, but they battled on against want and misery, and finally (Continued on page 550) Cache Valley—Part of the Mormon Epic Caroline Eyring Miner N interesting chapter in the story of the colonization of Mormondom is the settlement of Cache Valley. The pioneers were a nature-loving people, and, as such, they found a paradise in the beautiful Cache Valley of Northern Utah and Southern Idaho. Letters, journals, and histories reveal that here, indeed, is a veritable cache of early Mormon history. This great valley—a giant finger of Lake Bonneville—was the hunting ground for many tribes of Indians, most of them belonging to the Shoshone family, who fished in the clear streams and hunted in the wooded canyons. There is reason to believe that buffalo roamed the lower valley, and that, in the severe winter of 1785, they were killed off. During the period from 1824 to 1847, the valley was visited by troppers who searched the rivers and creeks for beaver. The valley was then called Willow Valley, but later it came to be known as Cache Valley because caches of furs and food were made here. During this period, such celebrated American scouts and naturalists as Jim Bridger, Lewis and Clark, and Charles Fremont, are among the white men who first visited this verdant valley. Captain Stansbury, of the corps of topographical engineers for the United States Army, investigating Cache Valley, in 1849, for the posPage 510 sible location of an army post, thus described it:.. Covered with a profusion of rich green grass and adorned and diversified by numerous clumps of willows. Speckled trout of large size abounded in the streams. The streams on the east side take their rise in a heavy range running to the north and constituting the eastern limit of the valley which has an average width of about ten miles. The canyons they form before leaving the mountains abound in timber. They afford facilities for irrigation, presenting at the same time advantageous sites for the erection of mills. These ravines abound in timber in quantities sufficient for fuel and building purposes. Looking for more grazing land, President Brigham Young and other Church leaders established the Church ranch, or farm, in 1855-56, between the places where Wellsville and Logan were later settled. Seven men and two women spent the first hard winter there. These were the first women to reside in Cache Valley, and they showed the great fortitude and patience typical of all Mormon pioneer women under trying circumstances. — Sister William A. Warner and Sister Stolworthy fed the men, grinding the wheat in coffee mills and making it into gruel. When food ran out, Brother Dowdle set out on foot for more. He returned with one sack of flour. Sister Warner writes: Out of my share of flour— one half pound a day—I saved one cupful a week and it came in handy when conditions became even worse. Sister Stolworthy's baby was the first to be born in Cache Valley. The first house in Cache Valley was also built at this ranch in August 1855. During this first winter there were three thousand head of cattle at the ranch, and of the two thousand owned by the Church only four hundred twenty survived the winter snow which was four and one half feet deep on the level and ten feet deep in the canyons. 'Yo mention the name of Peter Maughan is to recall the real beginning of Cache Valley settlement. In 1856, he was chosen by President Brigham Young to take a small colony into the valley, where he arrived September 15, 1856, with his wife and sons, W. H., and John M., also Zial Riggs, George Ryan, Francis Gennel, and O. D. Thompson, and families. They settled at what is now Wellsville, and, September 27, a child was born to Mrs. Peter Maughan. This child was considered to be the first child born in Cache Valley until the journal of Sister Warner came to light. The Maughan child was born in a covered wagon after the first snowfall. Because of Indian trouble and the difficulties occasioned by the entrance of Johnston's army into Utah, these colonists moved into Southern Utah, but returned in 185g. It is interesting to note that Sister Maughan mentions in her journal that her chairs had been scattered all over, but that otherwise they found things much as they had left them. After 1859, the permanent settlement of Cache Valley began in earnest. In June of that year, thirtyfive families moved to the vicinity of Logan and began its settlement. Some of the prominent people in this enterprise were Hezekiah Thatcher, financier; William B. Preston, first bishop; Ezra T. Benson, colonel of the "minute men," and first stake president; and Edward W. Smith, the first school teacher. Among the many interesting inTHE FIRST RELIEF SOCIETY HOUSE IN MENDON, CACHE VALLEY CACHE VALLEY—PART OF THE MORMON EPIC 511 PETER MAUGHAN cidents connected with early Logan history, it is worth mentioning that on March 7, 1870, the third election was held, and 265 votes were cast, fifty by women. This is indicafive of the important part women have played in Mormondom. The fact that Logan very early prohibited the sale of liquor is also evidence of the high type of citizenship there. APOSTLE WILFORD WOOD.- RUFF visited Logan, in 1863, with President Brigham Young, and, noticing the people lined up on either side of the street to welcome them, was inspired to prophesy that a temple would be built in Logan. President Young said the prophecy would be fulfilled. Its fulfillment was begun May 18, 1877, when President Young and his counselors came to Logan to break ground for RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST 1946 the temple. The stately edifice was dedicated May 17, 1884, by President John Taylor. The $608,000 structure was a monument to the sacrifice and co-operation of the pioneers of this section who, during the same period, built the tabernacle, which still stands on the beautiful square in the heart of the city. Logan has always been an outstanding educational and recreational center, and, even in this brief article, we must mention the establishment of Brigham Young College in 1877, and the Utah State Agricultural College, in 1890. Both schools began inauspiciously but grew rapidly and have done much good in Cache Valley. In 1858, the colony of Mendon was founded, and it is interesting to read how, in 1874, Mendon reported that its people could not go into the United Order until their bishop, Henry Hughes, returned from his mission. Then apostle Snow very quickly and effectively asked the question if the kingdom of God had to stop in Mendon because Bishop Hughes was on a mission. This settled the matter, and the Order was at once established, one third of the people being in the Order and twothirds out. The people who joined the Order put in all they had, and all were paid according to the days they worked, no matter what they had contributed. Richmond was established in 1859, with Brother Bair and others in charge. Also, in the same year, Smithfield was settled, with John G. Smith as the first bishop. The town was named in his honor. In 1860, Hyrum was settled, being named Hyrum because it was in CACHE VALLEY—PART OF THE MORMON EPIC a direct line with a proposed settlement at the Church farm which was to have been named Joseph. This settlement did not materialize. Also, in this same year, Millville and Hyde Park were established. Clarkston was settled in 1864, and is the burial place of Martin Harris who died in 1875. In 1869, Newton was settled, and, in 1870, Lewiston was established. Severe frosts killed the grain in July for three successive years, and very much discouraged the settlers in Lewiston. However, they persisted and now have a rich, thriving community. Benson was begun in 1871, Trenton in 1872, and College Ward in 1879. Franklin, the most northerly of the Cache Valley settlements, was begun in the spring of 1860. It holds the distinction of being the first permanent settlement in Idaho, but, in the begining, was considered to be in Utah territory. In 1865, Weston was established, the first settlement in Cache Valley on the west side of Bear River. In 1877, Preston was settled at the end of the Utah Northern railroad, and it soon became the leading town in northern Cache Valley. The settlement of Cache Valley was very rapid, especially during the year 1860. As this valley had been the hunting ground of various Indian tribes, they moved through the settlements as the seasons changed and caused a good deal of trouble. The saints tried to handle their problem in several ways. First, they tried to follow the advice of President Brigham Young by attempting to feed rather than to fight the Indians. At the same time they built their communities in the form 513 of forts for protection. Also, they maintained armed "minute men" under Colonel Ezra T. Benson. In spite of all these precautions, a few children were stolen, and some of the settlers lost their lives. One of the bloodiest engagements between the white men and the Indians took place at Battle Creek, near Franklin. Hundreds of Indians and many of General Connor's men were killed. The following account of one settlement was typical of all: During the first season they built for themselves homes (usually log with sod roofs and in fort formation), planted and harvested crops of grain and vegetables, constructed roads into the canyons so they could get what timber and firewood they needed, dug a small irrigation canal, and erected a log school and meeting house. Courtesy Torgeson Studio, Logan, Utah THE LOGAN TABERNACLE 514 Very shortly there followed the establishment of co-operative industries and recreational facilities. Only whole-hearted co-operation and hard work, fired by faith in Photograph by R. M. Brown RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST 1946 God and in their leaders and their rcligion, made i tpossible to establish the colonies in Cache Valley, as well as in all other parts of Mormondom. THE LOGAN TEMPLE IN SPRING SELF-CONFIDENCE Katherine Fernelius Larsen Belief in self'—how humble seems the goal; How hard the full attainment to the soul! Pioneer Stories and Incidents THE INDIANS OF UTAH AND THE BLACK HAWK WAR President Amy Brown Lyman {This story is the second in a series of true pioneer incidents to be published by The Relief Society Magazine in honor of the 1947 Utah Centennial cclebration. —Ed.] MONG the Indian tribes encountered by the pioneers in Utah and the adjoining areas were the Utes, the Piutes, and the Bannocks—all belonging to the Shoshone family. It was the policy of the pioneers to treat these Indians justly and fairly and to try to teach them the arts of civilization. According to the advice of Brigham Young, they were to be fed rather than to be fought. He warned against taking advantage of them in trade or otherwise, or even giving them offense. While the Indians seemed at times to appreciate this friendly attitude, and while some of their chiefs proved to be faithful friends, still, on the whole, in those early days the Indians were suspicious of the white man and revengeful as well. As they saw their lands taken from them, their freedom to roam and camp at will curtailed, and as plans of the Government to segregate them on reservations developed, they were filled with consternation, and they naturally felt that the white men were their enemies. And, to an Indian, it was no sin to steal from an enemy, or even to take the life of an enemy. Misunderstandings, therefore constantly arose, and, because of tepeated hostilities and aggressions, and the frequent and wanton _attacks on the white settlers, it was necessary for the latter not only to defend themselves, but in some instances to take the offensive. As a result, there were, for a number of years, skirmishes and even wars. The most serious of these conflicts was the Black Hawk War, so called because Chief Black Hawk was the leader of hostilities. It began in Sanpete County in 1865, and mvolved Sevier County as well, lasting about three years. It was a desperate struggle and the white settlers in these counties were in constant danger. One of the saddest incidents of this war was that connected with the Kuhre family of Ephraim. The writer was fortunate in hearing this story from the lips of William D. Kuhre himself, for many years the bishop of the Sandy Ward, where he is today greatly loved and respected. Brother and Sister Martin P. Kuhre, were converts to the Church from Denmark, and upon their arrival in Utah, in 1862, they settled in Ephraim, Sanpete County, where they, engaged in farming. On an October day in 1865, they went out to their field on the edge of town to harvest their potatoes. With them were their son William, age two years, Elizabeth Page 515 516 Peterson, a girl of seventeen, who lived with the family, and a young man named Sorn Sorenson. As they went about their work, they were suddenly startled and terrified to see approaching them a band of Indians led by Black Hawk himself. Young Sorenson, who had known Black Hawk intimately before the war, walked over to the chief to try to engage him in conversation and to avert trouble, if possible, until aid might come to them. Black Hawk, who had visited the Sorenson home as a young Indian, and had eaten at their table, seemed a little ill at ease as he stood there facing Sorenson. However, the Indians only a few yards away did not hesitate to make an attack, which resulted in the death of Brother and Sister Kuhre and the young girl, Elizabeth. Sorenson was permitted to escape with his team. After this, the Indians, with about RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST 1946 two hundred head of cattle they had acquired, started off toward the canyon. Later in the day, a party of white men went into the Kuhre field expecting to find them all dead. Imagine their surprise when they found the little boy, William, alive. He had been in the arms of his father when the latter was shot, but was uninjured himself. Left alone, he had crept over to where his mother lay, and he was found with a tearstained face, lying upon her breast asleep, with his clothing saturated with her blood. Having no relatives in America, the child was adopted by John and Ellen Dobbie, who tenderly reared him to manhood. The Black Hawk War cost the lives of over seventy white people and the destruction of much property. SKULL VALLEY Beatrice K. Ekman Glasswort, greasewood, saltgrass, Cedared hills, sagebrush, alkali, Brackish springs, cattle bone, Desolate by day, beautiful in moonlight. Carden Making for Centennial Days Hazel D. Moyle HE limelight of the world will T be upon Utah during the year 1947, when we hold our great Centennial celebration. We have all been looking forward eagerly to this date. We have promised ourselves that when it arrived we would have our homes in order, our cities and towns beautified, and our gardens and surroundings made attractive so that we could present ourselves serenely to the world and prove that we have truly made the desert blossom as the rose. The planting around the Latterday Saint home should receive the critical attention of every homeowner. Brigham Young considered this work of beautification of the greatest importance, even for the earliest log cabins and pioneer farms of our first settlers. President Young's counsel upon this subject is applicable to all of us as we approach the Centennial: Beautify your gardens, your houses, yout farms; beautify the city. This will make us happy, and produce plenty. The earth is a good earth, the elements are good if - we will use them for our own benefit, in truth and righteousness. Then let us be content, and go to with our mights to make ourselves healthy, wealthy, and beautiful. And, speaking directly to the women of the Church, this great leader explained his ideals of homemaking in simple and exact terms: It is your right, wives, to ask your husbands to set out beautiful shade and fruit trees, and to get you some vines and flowand if your have not time, get them yourselves and plant them out. Some, perhaps, will say, "Q, I have nothing but a log house, and it is not worth that." Yes, it is worth it. I and_ get yines to run over the door, so that everybody who passes will say, "What a lovely little cottage!" This is your privilege and I wish you to exercise yourselves in your own rights. These words should sput our modern homeowners into action to make every home lovely with ° ereen lawns and flowers for the coming year. But how are we to accomplish any real planting results in the short time that now remains? One answer to this problem lies in making full, abundant use of the planting season immediately before us, from the middle of August into September and early October. We can start to plant soon after the first of August with excellent results. The days are still hot, but the nights are beginning to grow cooler, with more dewfall. 'The earth is warm and fertile and teeming with vitality. Roots take hold easily in the soil at this time if they are kept moist and are shaded from the sun. Lawn seed planted in early fall germinates quickly and grows tapidly, soon forming a rich carpet of green. The lawn will then have Page 517 518 the entire fall in which to grow, and it will be well established by the time winter arrives and will continue to develop under the snow. When spring comes, the grass will leap into active growth with the first warm day. Perennial plants that are set out in the cold, wet ground of spring take root slowly, and are delayed in their blossoming, but plants that are given the advantage of early fall planting can easily become husky clumps with a full show of bloom the following year. Remember that the success of any planting depends upon four things: thorough preparation of soil; early planting (the earlier the better); shading of the plant from the hot sun while it is taking root and getting ready to grow; and constant. And abundant supply of moisture during the entire fall. And, should freezing weather arrive before the first snowfall, it will be wise to apply a mulch of leaves around the plants to protect them from being heaved out of the ground. Bestir yourself, if you would bring sparkle and color into your garden to help make the Centennial year festive and beautiful. Add such desirables to your garden as the small, low, cushion-like spring perennials that can make the season a thing of beauty. The sweet blue forget-menots for the shady spots; the foamy white arabis to bring a lacy froth along the path; the brilliant and dazzling show put out by that splendid alyssum, basket-of-gold, as many call it; or the equally brilliant and rich-toned purple aubretia, the purple rock cress. Purchase small plants of any of RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST 1946 these and give them correct and regular care, and they will nestle down and spread out and prepare to display all their charms next spring, as well as during all the springs to come. These perennials are permanent subjects, well worth the efforts of any home gardener. Among the taller spring bloomers are anchusa myosotifolia, the forgetme-not anchusa, an eighteen-inch, blue-flowered charmer; yellow doronicum, bearing large, pure yellow, daisy-like blooms in great abundance. Doronicum is a splendid shade lover and very useful on this account. Consider columbine, too, in delicate pastel colors, and fragrant sweet rocket, to make a misty lavender haze. With these, and plenty of gay tulips, which will be available this fall, any garden can help to turn next spring into a veritable flower festival. Choose the new kinds of iris for August planting. If these are given plenty of moisture, you will enjoy good iris bloom next season. There are wonderful new kinds of oriental poppies. Find a nurseryman, if you can, who sells the new pink-colored ones. The variety "Wonderkind" is pethaps the finest of all, but many others are of unusual beauty and, once planted, will bloom punctually each year. These flowers demand early planting. Delphinium does best when moved while in active growth. Delphinium often rots if it is set out when the ground is cold and wet. However, this plant is worth all the care it requires, for there is no lovelier decoration for the late June and July garden. Our greatest concern, at present, Se Courtesy Jackson and Perkins Company Newark, New York PHLOX, "PROGRESS" HOLLYHOCKS display _ their frilly show during July. Let them stand guard at the gate or by the fence. Shasta daisies make a sea of glistening white. Plant them in generous clumps. Most important of all perennials is the tall midsummer phlox which does well in almost every garden in the intermountain country. Set out generous plantings of this magnificent flower to glorify your July Centennial garden. Nurserymen °can supply you with many excellent kinds in a wide range of vivid colors, from pure white through lovely pinks into rosy shades: cherry, salmon, mauve, lavender, scarlet, and purple. You can make a garden of color and perfume worthy of a great occasion with this fine flower alone. Small clumps of phlox can be an moved while in full bloom, if they are well watered before being dug Courtesy Jackson and Perkins Company, Newark, '.? New York _ and if they are kept well soaked after bloom if they are planted in their This delphinium has the all-out-at-once jew location at once. After bloomcharacteristic of bloom, and the spike re-_..; mains in fine condition for considerable '8>» the clumps will continue to detime after the top buds have opened. Alvelop so that by next year they will main spike, they come into bloom and bloom. Select yours this year if you continue the period of bloom for several blossoming is repeated in the fall. The _ Still blooming, for their flowering: color is a pink lavender, with an outer season is a long one. Tive. 4 eS riched soil and prefer a spot receiving a little afternoon shade. 'They also should be for the flowers that bloom appreciate additional mulches of curing the July Covered Wagon manure placed directly over the Days of the Centennial year. This stems in fall and before the flowerwill be the month when visitors ing season. If the garden is hot and from far and near will flock to every dry, phlox will need additional ° part of our State. Let us prepare well mulching to keep the surface from for this event by giving full space drying out. Lawn clippings or peat S29 though the side shoots do not crowd the weeks more. The growth is bushy and the row of blue petals, which is very attrac. To midsummer bloomers, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST 1946 produce large masses of showy can. Many of them can be found Phlox plants require a well-enmoss are excellent for this purpose. GARDEN MAKING FOR CENTENNIAL DAYS They need deep and regular soakings during the flowering season. Such attentions bring good returns in large heads of flowers and rich, deep colorings. Utah can blaze with color next midsummer, with iris, phlox, delphiniums, and other hardy perennials. In addition, we can have the bloom of many colorful annuals that can be planted next spring. There is 521 no need for any home to remain shabby or unadorned during the Centennial year, if work is begun at once. Let us put forth our best efforts so that the stranger within our gates will carry away sweet, flowery memories of our Utah homes. Let our well-kept, andflower - adorned homes speak the friendly message of peace and beauty. GARDEN OF MRS. JOHN H. BENNETT The graceful, curving brick walk and the arrangement of the border in front of the tulip beds, lend an Old World charm to this lovely garden. Night Callers Gladys Dewey VERY crack in the long, oneroom log cabin had been covered. From the outside not one tiny slit of light could be seen. Nancy Parker fitted her white shawl comfortably around her shoulders and settled herself in her beeswaxpolished oak rocker. John and Martha had been put to bed, and everything was in readiness. All she could do now was wait. Her deep blue eyes wandered over the long room that had been her home for almost three years, falling first on the much-used flour sack that stood upright in the shadows behind the door, bulging with essentials. In it were a pair of homespun trousers John had outgrown, a dress Martha had worn, some red and yellow beads, an old, but still usable, coat of her husband's, and on top lay a mound of sweet cookies. They were all the right gifts. Nancy had filled that same sack so many times that she knew just what it should contain. At a murmured sound from Martha, her eyes darted to the place where two curly-haired children lay cuddled in a deep feather mattress, lying on the spotlessly clean pineboard floor. A multicolored patchwork quilt was over them. Satisfied that the children were both asleep, Nancy leaned her head against the back of her chair and watched the light from the crackling pine log in the fireplace as it played along the dark, low ceiling. She was very thankful for the fire. The day had been cloudy and chilly, but she Page 522 had not dared to build a fire, for smoke could be seen or smelled even though the cabin was far below the Indian village high up in the mistcovered mountains. Having smoke coming from the chimney, if the Indians had seen Jim Parker's wagon leave, would be inviting trouble, for they would know that Nancy was alone. Night had come early and settled with foggy darkness so thick it seemed you would be able to reach out and touch it. Knowing that smoke could not penetrate such an atmosphere, she had hurriedly lit the fire. Not being one to sit with folded hands, Nancy took her knitting from the basket on the table beside her and began another row on her husband's socks. Jim Parker had gone on his yearly journey to the county seat. Pine City was forty miles away and it took three days to make the trip— one day to go, one to transact his business and buy supplies for the winter, and one day to retum. This was the first time that Nancy had not been with him, but the distance was too long, and the weather too uncertain to take the children, Martha, six, and John, eight. % * * In preparing for the trip, Jim had hitched his big bays, Maud and Pat, to his covered wagon loaded with feed for the team and a roll of bedding for himself. Before leaving, he had glanced at his watch, then scanned the heavens. If the NIGHT CALLERS late October sky had not been covered with a solid mass of dingy gray clouds, the sun would have been just peeking over the rim of the mountain, to splash in through the small window onto the children's bed. But that morning John and Martha had been up and dressed, listening carefully to every instruction their father had given them. Good-byes had been said and Nancy had stood in front of the cabin, holding each of the children - by the hand, until her husband had _ disappeared around the bend in the road, John had then withdrawn his hand from his mother's, for hadn't father made him head of the house during his absence? Then, with his shoulders thrown back, and his blue eyes sparkling with the magnitude of his new responsibility, he had looked at his mother and small sister, and echoed a phrase of his father's, "Time's a passing, so better get to our chores." Nancy had smiled at her children and gone into the cabin to "get to her chores," while John had hurried down the path toward the woodpile with six-year-old Martha coming on behind as fast as her short, stubby legs would let her. Jim Parker had sawed and split a huge pile of white pine and maple for the children to put in the lean-to shed just around the northern comer of the cabin. John had begun loading a pile of the big chunks in the crook of his arm, while Martha gathered the small kindling pieces. Back and forth they had gone until not one chunk was left. Then, tucking her long, black curls further under her bright red cap, Martha 523 had followed her brother as he fed the cows and pigs. F eeding the chickens had been their last chore. When John, imitating his father, had given her the task, Martha gleefully began laying tiny handfuls of wheat in a wide circle, counting each one, to be sure each of the fourteen fowls had her own share. Late in the afternoon Nancy had helped her son feed and milk the cows. Back in the cabin, Nancy had frequently left her work to glance through the window at the children, to assure herself that they were all tight. Although she had lived as a neighbor to the Indians for three years, she was still nervous when the children were out of the cabin. Her work had gone more smoothly after John and Martha had come in, early in the evening, removed their coats and toboggan caps, and sat by the fireplace carefully turning the pages of an old mail-order catalogue which Nancy had brought with her from Indiana. **e *& & UDDENLY Nancy's thoughts were interrupted. Dropping her knitting, she riveted her eyes on the heavily bolted door, shaken by loud knocking. Fear seized her and she gripped the arms of her chair. The knocking sounded again. Nancy arose and: went to the door, Sliding back the bolt, she felt certain she knew what she would see outside, and glanced at the gift-filled flour sack. But, instead of a begging old squaw croaking, "Give biscuit, Shoshone hungry," a tall, willow-straight Indian came into the room, folled by two blanketed braves. The Welight sparkled in and out among the beads around his 524 magnificent headdress of manycolored feathers, which rippled almost to the floor. The awe-inspiring presence of the gieat chief of the Shoshone Indians was terrifying to the small, dark-haired pioneer woman who stood before him. Chief Many Feathers spoke first. "White squaw go. Take papoose, or': Nancy's trembling lips parted to ask why. The chief went on, "Evil god of white man come. Descend for many days on Shoshone Chief wigwam. White man go, take evil one from body of Little Star." Nancy had never seen Little Star, but she knew she was the chief's daughter. The chief stood proudly erect, his arms folded, but his somber eyes were full of sorrow, an emotion unbefitting to a chief. Every pioneer had heard of the cruelties of some of the Indians, the Shoshone included. Nancy knew her position was precarious. There was but one thing to do. Guided by the same spirit that had made her a pioneer, she looked straight at Chief Many Feathers and said, "White squaw come, take care of Little Star, make her well again." Nancy could feel the eyes of the three tribesmen as they gazed at her. Many Feathers refused. "No, White squaw go. Take away evil one.". Desperation driving her on, Nancy began telling the chief what to do for his child. He listened as she explained each step, then he said, "White squaw come." The young mother quickly awakRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST 1946 ened her children, explaining what had happened as she helped them dress. Chief Many Feathers and his braves stood silent and erect near the door watching Nancy and her children. When John and Martha were dressed, Nancy put on her own coat and tied a blue shawl over her hair. She hurriedly took a clean, small bag from a shelf covered by brightly flowered calico curtains, and began filling it with all the things she would need. Before blowing out the lamp, she glanced around the cabin. Her eyes noticed the sack in the comer, but fearing to offend the Chief, she left it. Nancy followed Chief Many Feathers out the door with her childten; the two braves came last. Stepping out into the night air, she noted with surprise that the heavy fog had lifted, and a small, pale moon showed through the clouds. The climb to the Shoshone village was an easy one. The chief, followed by his braves, led the way. Nancy came behind with John and Martha. None of the Indians offered any assistance; assisting a squaw would have been beneath the dignity of either a chief or a brave. Knowing this, Nancy did not expect help. The chief climbed silently and swiftly. The braves followed close behind him. The moon lighted the smooth, gently curving path. Nancy and the children moved almost as quietly as their escorts. But their pace was so swift, and the air so crisp, that soon it became difficult for them to breathe, and they fell some distance behind. Not until the Indians had reached NIGHT CALLERS the crest of the mountain did Chief Many Feathers look back. Standing tall, with folded arms, his face serene, he resembled a mighty statue in the moonlight as he waited for them to catch up. HIEF MANY FEATHERS led -~ the way down into his village, then into a large, deerskin-covered wigwam. Near the fire lay a pile of furs and on top of them lay Little Star, with her mother, Yellow Blos-- som, sitting beside her. The child had the brown-skinned beauty of the Shoshone. Her hair was shining black and smooth; long braids lay on the dark furs beside her hot, drawn face. She breathed rapidly. Nancy fell on her knees beside the little Indian girl. She knew at once what must be done. Motioning to John, she instructed him to take the contents of the small, white bag and set them beside the mound of furs. An old squaw was ordered to bring hot water. Nancy gently removed the soft, doeskin dress of her tiny patient and began rubbing her chest and back with camphor and lard, until it became warm against her hand. A short time later she swiftly mixed a small amount of mustard, flour, and water which she spread on a clean white piece of cloth and applied it to her patient's chest. Chief Many Feathers and Yellow Blossom sat on the opposite side of the fire watching as Nancy rubbed and poulticed Little Star. John and Martha watched also, much too excited to sleep. The remainder of the night seemed hours long. While Nancy waited and worked with her patient, she began thinking of the con- 525 sequences if her efforts to save the chief's daughter should fail. Night finally passed, as did the next day. Nancy spent the time applying poultices, rubbing, and feeding the child hot herb tea. Fear kept her at her post and sleep from her eyes. The chief and his wife never left their side of the blazing fire. Very late the second morning Little Star's dark forehead felt cooler under the gentle touch of Nancy's hand. She was overjoyed, but she did not dare tell Chief Many Feathers and Yellow Blossom so soon. The hours passed; daylight came, and with it the assurance that Little Star would get well. The fever had gone and she slept soundly. After many hours of restful sleep, Little Star awoke. Chief Many Feathers and Yellow Blossom arose and came to her. Taking John and Martha by the hand, Nancy left them alone with their child. Outside the sky was brilliant blue, and the warm sun was high and golden. Climbing up the path, Nancy looked down into the valley from the top of the mountain above the Indian village. Suddenly, she realized that her husband would be home that evening. Taking the children, she hurried back down the path to the chief's wigwam. As she entered, Little Star smiled up at her from her luxurious fur bed. Chief Many Feathers stood before her with Yellow Blossom at his side. Their gratitude was overwhelming. In his efforts to thank her the chief's eyes became unnaturally bright, and (Continued on page 550) Photographing Your Children Willard Luce ILMS are back! Well, anyway, there's a roll in the store every once in awhile. But they don't stay long. Films have been scarce too long, and there are many children who have never had their pictures taken. This is especially true in the smaller towns which are unable to support a regular photographer. But films are back. There will be a better supply this summer, and more and more fond parents will be shaking the dust from their cameras to get a picture of little Johnnie or Betty. Yes, films are back, but it will be a long, long time before we can splash in the luxury of shooting a whole roll for one or two good prints. They should all be good. And now when thousands of fine pictures are published every month, our own attempts at photography should be better and more interesting than the usual snapshot. Any person, child or adult, who is forced to stand straight and stiff in front of a camera is ill at ease. It's the same feeling that comes to a child who walks onto a stage and sees forty dozen eyes staring right at him. He swallows a couple of times, and thinks maybe he ought to smile—and he does. At least, he gets his lips twisted in the right direction, but his eyes aren't smiling, and his hands aren't smiling. All in all, he looks and acts about as comfortable as a cat in a dog show. Then, there is the snapshooter Page 526 who invariably stands the child in front of a tree. Most of the trunk is hidden by the child's body, and the rest seems to be growing right out of the top of his head. Now, some people don't mind that. Maybe they never studied botany and don't know trees aren't supposed to grow out of people's heads. But it isn't good photography. Which brings us to perhaps the two most important points in the photography of people — backgrounds and posing. With only one exception, the accompanying photographs were taken BRUSHING UP OPERATIONS Watch your backgrounds! PHOTOGRAPHING YOUR CHILDREN 527 - LIFE BEGINS ANY TIME Here are two pictures instead of one. The little girl at the left has no connection with the storytelling pose of the other two. Using the sky for the background. With proper filters and film, the sky can be made any shade from pure white to black. Even the clouds are not usually distracting, but rather give the impression of an outdoor atmosphere which is pleasing. The background of sky is certainly much better than the tree already mentioned, or a clothesline, billboard, telephone pole, and even trash pile. Some of these may seem a little far-fetched, but I have seen every one of them used, not once, but any number of times. It is well to understand here that it is sometimes better to use a poor background rather than to completely lose a picture. The photograph of the three children has an annoying background, as well as including two pictures instead of one. But to have worried about these would certainly have lost the interesting expressions on the two girls' faces. Little can be done about the background, but the two pictures can be separated in the darkroom either by enlarging or by masking. Place your hand over the smaller girl. You have left a storytelling picture of a small girl and boy holding hands, without the distraction of the first girl, who seems to have no connection whatsoever with the story. Cover the girl and the boy up, and you have the second picture. As for posing—I don't know why people "freeze" when they face a camera, but they do. I "freeze," and most everyone I know does the same thing. When my son was only two years old, he would sit up and put on a smile that was as artificial as appleblossoms at the North Pole, at the mere sight of me setting up the camera. Very few people are at ease in front of a camera. It's the photog- FASHION PARADE Most children love to dress up, and all dressed up children make good camera subjects. Rapher's job to talk them into relaxing or, better still, to give them something to do so that they can entirely forget the camera. N every picture in this series the child is doing something. There is really nothing a child likes to do better than to dress up. Girls gather up their mothers' old dresses and nigh-heeled shoes. With no more than that, they will play and parade by the hour, offering more entertainment for the bystander than a fourring circus. Certainly there is camera matenal here. Even a belt is somelimes enough to make a boy feel dressed up and mature. Give him a belt, and he will swagger in a way that will make James Cagney resemble Little Lord Fauntleroy. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST 1946 The girl at the lamppost was giv- 'en a big hat and a purse, and posed in the maner of the fashion photographers of a former day. A bigger purse would have been even better. Right here is a good point to remember—study the magazines and notice how the people ate posed, both in the illustrations and in the advertisements. If you find a Power's model posed in a way to suggest an interesting pose for your own child, try it. And you don't always have to be on a level with a model. Having the camera either below or above the model is often more effective, and breaks the monotony of repetition. Most of the accompanying photos were taken from a low camera angle. PUPPY LOVE The introduction of a pet into the photegraph takes the child's attention from himself and places it on the pet. PHOTOGRAPHING YOUR CHILDREN CAMERA SHY Crying is often a more interesting, and, certainly, a truer expression than a forced smile. Another effective means of relaxing the child is to pose him with a pet—a boy with his dog, or a boy with his horse. The mere presence of the pet forces the child's attention away from himself to his pet; and that is usually all that is necessary. The old cliche of "look at the birdie and smile" is as outmoded as the Wright Brothers' airplane. The child needs neither to look at the birdie nor to smile. Infact, just to watch some photographer sneak up on an unsuspecting child is enough not only to make the child scream, but the mother as well. However, a child, crying, lends much human interest, and certainly offers a more natural expression than a forced smile. 529 Framing the child in a doorway, a window, or in the square of a lattice gives the child something to do and provides an effective frame. With backgrounds of this type, however, you have to be especially. Careful of the way the light strikes the model. As most of you will have box cameras, or folding cameras, with little or no variation in focusing distance, it will be difficult to get closer to your models than eight feet. 'This is not necessarily as much of a handicap as you might, at first, suppose. Most photo finishers do enlarging, and will enlarge any section of a negative you desire. 'Then, too, portrait attachments which work GIVE A MAN A HORSE Just sitting on his favorite mount gives a boy a relaxed, at-home feeling which earries over into the photograph. 530 DISTANT HORIZONS Portrait attachments help to get closer to the subject. Adding the bicycle makes this informal portrait more interesting than a straight head shot would have been. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST 1946 quite satisfactorily can be purchased. The same principles apply to a portrait that apply to any other picture. Merely asking the model to hold up his bicycle and look down the road, helps him to forget himself and makes for a more natural photograph. Of course, the inclusion of the handle bars or some part of the bicycle is necessary to round out the storytelling quality of the picture. And, contrary to the general belief that the sun must shine from behind the camera, the poser's features are much better modeled and more interesting if the light comes from one side and above. And remember, it isn't the camera half as much as the imagination, patience, and planning of the photographer, that determines the final product. STRANGER Jessie Miller Robinson In reverie, today, I met her— A creature fairylike with joy, I wondered how I could forget her, Allow the long years to destroy Our star-paved dreams, and love to cloy. Always with trust she met the morrow; Her thoughts were buds of purity, And brief as rain in spring, her sorrow: In faith she prayed, believing God Was good.... The child I used to be. THIS SILENT BARD Evelyn Fjelsted A rose, an affirmation of Life's wondrous beauty and reward, We hear its floral sermon, Pay tribute to this silent bard. A miracle that tells of love, In language understood by all, Whose influence benign, so like A benediction seems to fall. A mystery, this vision fair, Could it have strayed from worlds unseen, To be a guest in gardens here, A stranger on this mundane scene? And whence and how it came, who knows? A rose diffusing perfume rare, Whose silent glory testifies That God is here and everywhere. —_— Heavenly Harmony Rachel B. Ballantyne Dp" you ever stop and think how much the heavenly bodies—the sun, moon, and stars—are like a family of people? As they perform their work so faithfully and undeviatingly, they seem to be giving a silent lesson, day after day, as to how people could live and conduct their lives in order to have peace and harmony in their homes. If we could catch the lesson so beautifully portrayed above us, it would ensure happiness to the inmates of our earthly homes. Let us call the sun the father. He rises first in the morning, looks over the mountains, and sends a smile of radiance over this beautiful world of ours, then mounts the sky in power and splendor and, from his high vantage, sees and touches every detail of his responsible work, which is a mighty factor in keeping our world productive that life may exist hereon. In the evening, his work finished, he retires to rest. Then the moon, we'll call the mother, a dainty, silver rim, appears and calls her star children out to play and twinkle. After games, she retires. But each evening she returns, stays a little longer, that her influence and activity may give added light and effectiveness until she is full and glorious in gold and silver splendor, soaring and reigning queen of the night. Then, as she begins to weary, her triumphal beauty wanes, little by little, until she retires into a natural period of rest, away from public gaze. The star children are left to light the traveler's way and do their part in dispelling darkness, and to carry on in shining loveliness, for a season, alone. Thus, each planet and each orb has its opportunity in making this the grand old world it is. The father's task is much the same, day after day, carrying on in unwavering strength. The mother's work is more varied, but not less important in the plan. In all nature, as in the gospel plan, harmony prevails, giving each creation a place and a responsibility. Page 53] Sixty Years Ago Excerpts from the Woman's Exponent, August 1, and August 15, 1886 "For THE RIGHTS OF THE WOMEN OF ZION AND THE RIGHTS OF THE Women oF ALL Nations" THE EARTH IS THE LORD'S: The ways of God are not as the ways of man, ner his purposes to be fathomed by the small understanding of man. He created this earth and placed his children upon it for a purpose—a wise and glorious purpose—to test them, to prove which of them would seek after truth and righteousness... For of such is the kingdom of heaven.. —L. L. Dalton * * x * Although her mortal life was short And much of pain she knew, In patience she her sufferings bore And still was firm and true. The love of God within her heart Made all her duties light, Now in far happier scenes she dwells, And walks in robes of white. —Hannah Cornaby (Written in honor of Elizabeth F. Hanson who died June 16, 1886, at the age of twenty-one. She was a wife, a mother, and first counselor in the Young Ladies' Association of Spanish Fork, Utah.) * * * * OGDEN CITY: Our conference was held in the Ogden Tabernacle, June 20, 1886... Conducted by our beloved President, Jane S.. Richards, with her counselors, Hattie C. Brown and Sarah I. Herrick. We had the company of apostle F. D. Richards, President L. W. Shurtliff and wife, President Eliza R. S. Smith.... After the usual exercises of singing and prayer, reading of minutes, etc., President Jane S. Richards made a few opening remarks, expressing her great joy in again meeting with her beloved brethren and sisters.... President Eliza R. S. Smith gave us, as usual, much wise instruction in regard to the sublime principles of our religion.... She felt sorry and grieved to hear of the disasters and trouble that were befalling many places in the world.... Touched upon character, conscience, the work for our dead, the law and order of tithing... And many other things, explaining each subject in a beautiful and acceptable manner.... All present felt that the spirit of the Lord rested upon her.... Long may she live to be a shining light among the saints of God. —Monta Harris, Secretary Ogden Relief Society * * % * OLD FOLKS EXCURSION, 1886: On the 22nd of July the Old Folks Excursion, which, by the way, has come to be a regular yearly occurrence, went to American Fork.... The committee, of whom Elder C. R. Savage is now acting chairman. Were in glorious spirits, and determined the old folks should have a gala day.... All over ninety wore a badge of white ribbon, over eighty wore blue, and over seventy, red.... The exercises at the grove were very brief, but pointed and spirited.... President Angus M. Cannon made a very happy patriotic speech, one that every good and loyal citizen might respond to from his innermost soul.... A. A. Lyne, the veteran actor,... Recited a scene from "William Tell," with a great deal of the old fire and zeal in his manner. Page 532 Woman's Sphere Romana W. Cannon MIs CHARLOTTE KNIGHT, former Utahn, was one of the reporters among the distinguished group who, from circling giant airships, observed the historic atom bomb destruction at Bikini atoll. The tests made there will help to shape our country's future naval and air policies. Miss Knight has made an exceptional career for herself in New York as a public relations worker, a war correspondent, and a staff member of the technical Air Force Magazine, which she represented in the Bikini tests. HE modern woman is not so modern after all. In the fifth century B. C., the Greek dramatist, Sophocles, wrote of... Egypt's evil ways Where men indoors sit weaving at the loom, And wives outdoors must earn their daily bread. HE fighting Chilean, Don Tancredo Pinochet, who has been 'working against corruption and injustice in Chile for forty years, is married to an American woman, the former Constance Alexander, while Spruille Braden, former American ambassador to the Argentine, and present Assistant Secretary of State, is married to a beautiful South American woman, born in Chile. "THERE is no more excellent tribute to a woman's character than to be greatly beloved in her own family circle. Such a love existed between the gifted composer Felix Mendelssohn and his sister Fanny. Grief over Fanny's death hastened Felix's own premature demise. One of the truest and most devoted friends of the great South American liberator, Simon Bolivar, was his sister, Maria Antonia. MBE:. Marjorie D. Spikes, first woman attache to be appointed by the British Government, came to the British Embassy in Washington last October. She reports that in one year, 116,000 families have been trehoused in London. Many, however, are still sleeping in the underground railway system hostels. Though food rationing is still no better than in war days, children are in better health than in 1939. Each child has one pint of milk a day, however great the shortage. If people are unable to pay for the milk, the Government provides it. The National Youth Council trains leaders who go throughout Britain looking after the youth, with a consequent sharp decline in juvenile delinquency. About one-third of the Kingdom's city councilors are women, who are achieving excellent results in the improvement of civic affairs, frequently without compensation. Page 533 Q— > EDITORIAL 9 VOL. 33 AUGUST 1946 Personal Development Shrough 5 Sh "He who doeth the works of righteousness shall receive his reward" (Doc. And Cov. 59:23). OVER half of the Relief Society membership is engaged in service to the organization either as ward or stake officers, or as visiting teachers. These women have, for the most part, accepted their callings without thought of the personal development they would gain, but have entered into their work with zeal and enthusiasm, thinking only of ways and means to further the progress of the Relief Society. However, the Lord has promised us that: "He who doeth the works of righteousness shall receive his reward," and all who work in the Relief Society benefit not only the Church, but themselves as well. Every one of us has potential abilities and talents, just as she has potential physical strength in her body. If the arms and legs are never used, the potential physical strength is undeveloped. Just so, if one does not use her special abilities and talents, they canot be expected to develop and be of use to others. The women who work in Relief Society find many ways and opportunities to develop, because the program is so wide and varied. In general, these women develop spiritually and mentally, and they acquire many homemaking skills. Specifically, Relief Society women develop their talents according to their callings, as for example, the women occupying executive posiPage 534 tions. These women gain confidence and poise and the ability to stand before large gatherings and conduct meetings according to accepted procedure. Who in all the Relief Society gains as much from the lesson as the class leader herself? Many times, the teacher has taught herself a more valuable lesson than that received by the class members. The work meeting, the participation of Relief Society in the Welfare Program, the visiting teaching program, the Singing Mothers—all furnish a wide variety of opportunities for self - service. Many times Relief Society sisters have been called to fill positions for which they felt inadequate and unqualified. However, these women have been magnified in their callings and made equal to the tasks before them. Later, these women have borne testimony to the development they, personally, received as they performed the duties, which they had felt were far beyond their capabilities. While Relief Society women do not accept positions for the personal advancement they may receive therefrom, yet we do recognize that great development comes to them, and are thankful that this is one of the rewards for them "who doeth the works of righteousness." —G. R. G. Notes TO THE FIELD Annual Relief Society General Conference THE annual Relief Society general conference will be held in Salt Lake City, Wednesday and Thursday, October 2 and 3, 1946. All stakes are urged to have in attendance as many of their stake board members as possible, since all the activities of Relief Society will be presented in departmental sessions on Wednesday, October 2. A teception for stake and mission officers and stake board members will be held on Wednesday evening from 8 p. M. To 10 P. M. In the Lafayette Ballroom, Hotel Utah. The final session, Thursday afternoon, to be held in the Tabernacle, will be open to the general membership of Relief Society. Detailed programs for all the conference sessions will be mailed to stakes and missions at an early date. HES May Anderson—Friend of the Children 1864 - 1946 THE General Board of Relief Society, on behalf of the membership in all the stakes and missions of the Church, pays tribute at this time to the memory of Sister May Anderson. Long devoted to the service of children, Sister Anderson passed away June 10, 1946, at the age of eightytwo. She served the Primary Association with great devotion for forty-eight years, acting as secretary of the General Board, as a counselor, and, from 1925 to 1939, as general president. Under her enthusiastic and untiring direction, the Children's Friend was founded; her energy and her vision were largely responsible for the success of the Primary Children's Hospital. Sister Anderson's interests were varied, her talents outstanding. Thousands of children and their parents remember May Anderson with love and gratitude. Her influence and her sympathetic service will be of lasting benefit to the organization which she served so well, and to all who are devoted to the welfare of children. - Page 535 Menus—By the Day Or By the Week Phyllis Snow Home Service Director, Mountain Fuel Supply Company O you plan your menus by the meal, by the day, or by the week, and have your results been all that you would wish? Most homemakers find that planning for only one or two meals at a iime is likely to result in poorly balanced menus, unnecessary rush and worry and extra shopping, and that money becomes ever scarcer as the end of the month draws ever nearer. Planning by the week has been found to be much mote satisfactory, especially in balancing menus. Some foods are needed every day, and some only three or four times a week. By looking at all seven days at once, we can be certain that all the necessities will be included. The seven-day plan helps the budget, too. Instead of serving chicken, steak, and chops soon after payday, as we are tempted to do when we plan by the day of meal, we shall find it easy to scatter these delicacies over the week, and thus keep up the family's interest in meals. Having a written market list saves time when we go to the store, for we can buy in one trip all of the staples, canned goods, and potatoes that we shall need during the week. Of course, menus are subject to change! All of us know that invitations out to dinner, unexpected Page 536 guests, or other emergencies may alter plans. But this need not be a problem. Perishables can be kept in the refrigerator. Even greens will keep garden fresh in the hydrator sections. Revisions in your meals can be easily made. Set aside a definite period of time for meal planning. This may require an hour or two if the meals are to be well-balanced from all standpoints, and, at the same time, kept within the bounds of your food allowance! Thursday or Friday is a good day in which to plan the menus, for you can start with the week-end meals, and any tidbits left from Sunday may be used to good advantage early in the week. It is easier to write out all seven breakfasts first and then to plan the dinners. Finally, balance each day's account nutritionally with the lunches or suppers. Menus should be simple, and it is well to keep in mind that tasty, nutritious food, spick-and-span cleanliness, attractive table settings, proper table manners, and pleasant conversation all contribute to a successful meal. It is the combination of these, rather than a series of "fancy dishes," that is important! To make your planning easy, and to be certain that all food essentials are included in your meals, try using MENUS—BY THE DAY OR BY THE WEEK the following outlines which have been devised by leading authorities in the field of nutrition, medicine, and homemaking, and which have MINIMUM DAILY REQUIREMENTS 537 been accepted as being among the most vital contributions that have been made to good eating in recent years. What to Serve Group Requirement I II Ill Yellow or Green Vegetables Artichokes, asparagus, beet greens, broccoli, brussel sprouts, cabbage, chard, endive, green peas, kale, dandelion greens, leaf lettuce, snap, string, and green beans, parsley, water cress, green PePppets, spinach, turnip greens, wild greens, carrots, rutabagas, pumpkins, yellow squash, yellow com, sweet potatoes, yams, apricots, cantaloupes, yellow peaches. Citrus Fruits, Tomatoes, Cabbage, or Salad Greens Citrus 'juices, grapefruit, lemons, limes, oranges, tangerines, tomatoes, tomato juice, cantaloupes, muskmelons, raspberries, strawberries, raw cabbage, salad greens. Other Fruits and Vegetables Potatoes, beets, celery, cucumbers, eggplant, leeks, head lettuce, fresh lima beans, mushrooms, onions, parsnips, radishes, sauerkraut, white squash, turnips, apples, avocados, bananas, blackberties, blueberries, cherries, cranberries, currants, dates, figs, gooseberries, grapes, huckleberries, loganberries, mangoes, white peaches, pears, pineapples, persimmons, plums, prunes, quinces, raisins, rhubarb, watermelons, youngberries, etc. Milk and Milk Products Whole milk, skim milk, buttermilk, evaporated milk, dried whole or skim milk, ice cream. No. Of Servings Per Day At Least One At Least One Three (Choices in Groups I through IT should total 2 fruits and 3 vegetables daily.) Cups or More for Children; 2 Cups for Adults (This includes any milk used in cooking as well as im beverages. ) No. Of Servings Per Week 538 Group Requirement Vv Meat, Poultry, Fish or heese (Occasionally, substitute mature Pears or beans, nuts, or peanut butter) Beef, veal, (except bacon and fat meat); vanety meats such as liver, heart idney, brains, tongue, sweet. Breads, s rabbit, game, goose, guinea, squab, turkey, fish, and shellfish. Dried black-eyed Peas, cowpeas, kidney beans, lima beans, na beans, pinto beans, Soybeans, soya flour and grits, lentils, etc. Peanuts and peanut butter, nuts of all kinds, Eggs Fresh, dried, or frozen. VI Cereals and Bread (enriched or whole grain ) Bread: Whole-wheat, enriched white, Pumpernickel, oatmeal bread. Crackers: Made from enriched white, whole grain, rye, or Soya flour. Cereals: Rolled oats, brewn Tice, whole. Wheat... Others, if labeled "whole grain" or "enriched." Yellow Cornmeal Fats Butter or Fortified Margarine Other fats as used in cooking. VII Any Other Food You Want VII Careful scrutiny of this pattern will show that each group of the daily requirements can be adapted to various seasons as well as pocketbooks, for the choice from each group is left entirely to the individual. You may make any choice from RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST 1946 No. Of Servings Per Day One (Increase for expectant or nursing mothers, ) a No. Of Servings Per Week No Less Than 3 toga Week Two ¥2—1 Table. Spoon As Desired within the stoup so long: as you choose something from each group. MENU PATTERNS The following patterns should be used as guides rather than inflexible tules to be followed Precisely, Break. MENUS—BY THE DAY OR BY THE WEEK 539 A WELL-BALANCED DINNER WITH AN ATTRACTIVE SETTING fast, for instance, might be made lighter by omitting the bread or the cereal; or strengthened by using both cereal and eggs or meat. But, if cereal is left out of breakfast, it should be served at other meals. It might, for example, be incorporated into muffins or cookies or used as a meat extender in casseroles or meat loaves; and the milk, which would have been served with the cereal. Could be put into cream soup or other food. When meat or eggs are served for breakfast, they may be omitted from lunch or supper or reduced in quantity. Similar variations may be made in lunch and dinner menus. Remember, it is more important to choose something from each group of the Basic Seven Requitements than it is to put that choice in any particular meal. Breakfast Fruit Cereal and, or eggs Bread — Butter or substitute Beverage Lunch Egg, meat, fish, cheese, Dried beans or peas Non-starchy vegetable Bread Butter or substitute Fruit Beverage poultry Dinner Meat, fish, cheese, eggs, or poultry Starchy vegetable 540 Green or yellow vegetable Salad Bread Butter or margarine Dessert Beverage SAMPLE MENUS See how easy it is! (The figures in parentheses refer to the minimum daily requirement groups which they fill. Recipes are given for those dishes which are starred.) Breakfast Orange Juice (2) Wheaties (1) topped with Sliced Peaches (3) Toast (6) Butter (7) Milk (4) Box Lunch Frankfurters (5) Sandwich* on Cracked Wheat Bread (6) Smoky Cheese (5) and Watercress (1) Sandwich on Rye Bread (6) Carrot Sticks (1) Potato Chips (3) Deviled Egg (5) Fruit Cup (3) Cookies (8) Lemonade (2) or Milk (4) Dinner Mock Chicken Casserole* (5) Buttered Green Beans (1) Corn on the Cob (1) Tomato and Lettuce Salad (2) Hot Biscuits (6) Butter (7) Sponge Cake (8) Strawberry Ice Cream (4) Milk (4) Breakfast Strawberries (2) and Cream (7) Scrambled Eggs (5) Bacon (7) Toast (6) Butter (7) Milk (4) RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST 1946 Home Lunch Cream of Spinach Soup (4, 1) Toasted Hard Rolls (6) Butter (7) Cottage Cheese (5) and Fruit Salad (3) Pineapple Dressing* (5) Milk (4) Dinner Broiled Lamb Chops* (5) New Potatoes (3) in Parsley Butter (7) Fresh Asparagus (1) Tossed Green Salad (2) Bran Refrigerator Rolls* (6) Butter (7) Fresh Peach Pie* (8) Milk (4) STARRED RECIPES Bran Refrigerator Rolls Y cup lard or butter Y% cup mashed potato \% cup sugar 1 cup bran 2 beaten eggs 2 cups scalded milk 1 cake compressed yeast Y cup warm water 5/6 cup flour 1 teaspoon salt 1 teaspoon baking powder Y% teaspoon soda Mix the potato, fat, sugar, eggs, bran and milk in a large bowl. Cool until tepid. Add the yeast dissolved in the lukewarm water. Sift together 2 cups of the flour, the salt, baking powder, and the soda, and beat this in thoroughly. Gradually add enough more flour to make a soft dough; then knead 'for 2 minutes and place in a greased bowl. Grease the top of the dough and cover tightly. Place in a refrigerator overnight (may be stored in refrigerator 4-5 days before using). Shape and place in pans about two hours before baking. Bake at 400° for 12-15 minutes. Yield, 50 rolls. Frankfurter Sandwich Spread 2 cups ground bologna - Y% cup ground sweet pickles \4 - 1 teaspoon prepared mustard MENUS—BY THE DAY OR BY THE WEEK 14 cup mayonnaise Blend the bologna and pickles. Mix the mustard with the mayonnaise and add. Yield, 214 cups. Broiled Lamb Chops 6 loin lamb chops salt and pepper Have chops cut one inch thick. Arrange on a broiler rack, allowing three inches between surface of chops and the flame. When meat is brown, season with salt and pepper, turn and brown the other side. Only one turning is necessary. Allow approximately 7-8 minutes to a side. Serves 6. Mock Chicken Casserole 4 tablespoons butter \% cup green pepper, diced 2 tablespoon minced onion 4 tablespoons flour 2 cups scalded milk 1 can mushroom soup 1 No. 1% can flaked tuna 3 ounces potato chips Melt the butter and add the green pepper and onion. Cook 2 minutes. Use to make a white sauce with the flour, milk and soup. Mix the tuna fish and 3% of the potato chips and combine with the white sauce. Pour into a buttered casserole. Sprinkle with the remaining chips. Bake at 350° for 30 minutes. Yield, 6 servings. Pineapple Dressing Y4 cup sugar 144 tablespoons cornstarch 541 Pinch salt 4 cup pineapple juice 2 tablespoons lemon juice 1 egg yolk 1 cup cream Mix sugar, cornstarch, and salt. Make a paste with some of the pineapple juice. Heat remainder of the juice and blend with the paste. Stir constantly until thickened. Boil two minutes. Add egg yolk. Remove from heat and add lemon juice. Cool. When ready to serve, mix 4-1 cup whipped cream. NOTE: Orange or other fruit juice may be substituted for a part or all of the pineapple juice. 2 tablespoon grated orange rind may be added. Fresh Peach Pie Y cup sugar 3 tablespoons flour Y2 teaspoon nutmeg 1 teaspoon butter Juice of 14 lemon 6 - 8 peaches, peeled and sliced Mix together the sugar, flour and nutmeg. Arrange with peaches in alternate Jayers in an unbaked pie shell. Dot with butter and sprinkle with lemon juice. Cover with top crust and bake at 450° for 20 minutes. Reduce the heat and bake 350° for 20 minutes. Anyone, by thoughtful planning, can create good menus... But planning, plus a dash of imagination, can help you produce superlative ones. _- BROWN-CRUSTED BREAD Eva Willes Wangsgaard When you eat brown-crusted bread Think of sun and rain; But remember, willing backs Bent to gather grain. When you make the snowy loaf Golden-rich with butter, Think of milkers in the cold, Barns where lanterns sputter. When the bread is being passed, One plate to another, Offer thanks that sun-browned hands Feed an unknown brother. Faith Is a Heritage Christie Lund Coles CHAPTER 5 Synopsis: Enid, wife of Tom Drage, who was killed in a factory accident, is faced with the problem of rearing her daughter Sharon. The factory makes a settlement, and Miss Nobbitt, the landlady, offers to take care of Sharon while Enid finishes the schooling required for a teacher's certificate. In Salt. Lake City, Enid registers at the University and begins her school work. She goes for a ride with Milo Ross, a fellow student. HE knew he was going to kiss her unless she acted swiftly. So, as his lips would have touched hers, she turned her head, at the same time pushing him from her with both hands. He tried to take her hands into his free one, as he said, "Don't tell me youre going to be prudish. I like you." "Tf not letting you kiss me is being prudish, then I'm certainly going to be just that," she told him simply, flatly, "and if you don't mind I'd like to go home." There was that in her tone that told him she meant what she said. He straightened up, his mouth becoming sulkier than ever as he said, "Okay. You sound exactly like a school teacher." Her laugh was a little hysterical as she admitted, "I'm going to be a school teacher. And I'm glad of it. For that matter, I'm even glad that I give the impression of cramming, because I'm doing that, too. The sooner I finish, the sooner I can leave here and go home." Page 542 "There must be somebody very special waiting for you." "There is somebody very special," she assured him. He started the car and they drove toward town in silence. She found herself feeling just a little sorry for him, so wrapped was she in her own joy of thinking of the little town, Miss Nobbitt's large, old-fashioned house... And Sharon. Oh, yes, especially Sharon. * x * The summer ended and Enid went home. The peaceful, uneventful weeks passed into months, and the months into another year, and Enid received her degree to teach. She put it carefully away in a bottom dresser drawer there to remain until the time would come when she and Sharon could go together to the red schoolhouse in the east part of town. The time passed so swiftly that that day came sooner than she had believed possible. Sharon's school started one Monday morning before the junior high school in which Enid was to teach. She had bought Sharon an adorable dress and hat for the occasion. It was an extravagance, but she wanted Sharon to look her very prettiest. Now, as she tied the large yellow sash and adjusted a golden yellow curl, she felt she had never seen anything more beautiful than this child of hers. But Sharon was frightened and a little dismayed. FAITH IS A HERITAGE "You'll stay there with me, won't you, Mommie?" she asked, her eyes dark and anxious. Enid told her, "TI can't stay with you very long. But I will stay as long as possible. You mustn't be frightened, honey, most of the children are just little boys and girls that you know." "But there will be so many," the child lamented. Enid smiled, understanding that natural fear of great crowds. One or two people could always be met easily, but there was something about a group that made one feel alone and lonely. And Sharon was a shy little thing, anyway, sensitive and aloof. Enid had adjusted her own new nat at just the proper angle. She took Sharon's hand, and they started up the street together toward the schoolhouse, where the bell, high in the belfry, was already beginning to ung. ° she entered the kindergarten room, especially when she saw that. The. Teacher was a young woman whom she had seen around town and who had always given her the impression of being proud and haughty. The impression was heightened when she introduced herself and Sharon. The girl glanced at the child, bnefly, and, without looking directly at Enid, said, "She'll get along all nght.". Enid asked, a bit hesitantly, "Is it all right if I stay a few moments?" "If you wish," she replied briefly. Then she told the child to be seated, and Enid walked to the back of the room where she found a chair and sat down. Her own legs shook just a little as 543. During the opening moments of the class, she caught Sharon looking around almost frantically for her, and she leaned forward smiling so that she would be in her line of vision. Unfortunately, Miss Hare, the teacher, saw, too, and a look of derision crossed her face. It was almost as though Enid could read her thoughts. She was probably thinking, Here is a spoiled youngster; they are poor, yet look at her clothes... FTER a few moments, Miss Hare announced she would call the roll, and asked each child to raise his hand as his name was called. She started down the list. Sharon sat watching her, waiting for her name to be called. When the list was finished she put it aside, and still Sharon sat watching her, disappointed, still hoping that she would remember her mistake and call her name. But the teacher did not. Enid tried to tell herself that it was not deliberate, that it was unimportant and she wrinkled her nose at her daughter when she tured to her, trying to give assurance that it wasn't important. Later, Miss Hare asked how manv of the children knew how to spell "cat." Sharon, among others, lifted her hand. When the teacher saw it, she said, "All nght then, you, spell in Sharon stood up, looked about the room, and her face blanched. Enid could see her lower lip tremble as she tried to get the letters out and could not. Miss Hare turned from her to the board, saying sharply, sarcastically, 'I thought you knew how to spell ie' 544 Sharon sat down and Enid felt as if she had been lashed with a cat-o'- nine-tails. Nothing in her own life had ever hurt her like this. Yet, she knew if she interceded, if she gave way to the emotions in her, it would be harder on Sharon than ever. The teacher would be even more unkind and Sharon would be more hurt. Enid decided to try and pass over the experience lightly, and to make Sharon believe there was some reason behind it, that the teacher was probably upset the first day, and was just thoughtless, that the slights didn't mean anything. But when Enid arrived home, she threw herself on the bed, and cnied, bitterness and anger welling up in her. If ever she had a chance, she vowed, she would strike out against that kind of teaching. Sarcasm had no place in the handling of children... They were too fundamentally good, too untouched to be exposed to its sharp spears. Not only her own child deserved something better, but all children everywhere deserved to be treated with respect and kindness. Enid discovered to her amazement, when Sharon came home, that she seemed to have forgotten the incident. She quickly changed her clothes and ran outside to play with some neighbor children. They weren't the best-dressed nor the bestbehaved children in town. Enid had had this truth brought home to her today when she had _ looked around the classroom and noticed the children from the homes on the east side of town. But what could she do? She had signed her contract now, and was bound to teach in this town. If she hadn't, she RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST 1946 thought desperately, she would have left the town and never returned. After all, there was no one to bind her here.. Except Miss Nobbitt. But she really had been good to her, and she owed her a great deal. She would have to stay, of course. Things would work out. No one could know Sharon and not love her. Not even Miss Hare, Enid reflected hopefully. The next few days Enid was busy getting started with her own teaching. She felt a little shy among the carefree boys and girls she taught, who were at the age most difficult - to understand—thirteen to fifteen years old—some of them even sixteen. Yet, it had not been so very long since she had been that age herself. She could still remember the adjustments so difficult to make. She didn't believe young people were bad, fundamentally, only misunderstood, misdirected, and their only defense was youthful defiance. After the first few days, she was sure she was going to like teaching; she was sure that, on the whole, the children would be co-operative. Her thoughts were brought back to Sharon and to her teacher on a particular Friday when the child walked over to the high school building to meet her. "Hello," Enid greeted her happily as she saw her small figure in the doorway. "Come in. See the room where your mother teaches." The child walked in rather slowly, and Enid noticed the paleness of her face, the unhappy expression in her eyes. "What is it?" she asked, rising to reach her hand out to her, "Anything gone wrong?" FAITH IS A HERITAGE "No," Sharon said shortly, avoiding her mother's eyes, pretending to be interested in the blackboard beyond her. Enid didn't want to press the issue. She didn't want to put any ideas into her daughter's mind if none were there. She only asked casually, "How's school? Is Miss Hare nice?" She was unprepared for the sudden burst of tears, the fury of the words that came from the child. "No," she cried, sobbing, "she's mean. She says mean things to me. I don't like her, Mommie. She doesn't like me. She.. Doesn't.. 'like.. Me." The last was a heartbroken wail that held all the sorrow and misery of childhood. Enid felt a pain like a vise pressing within her breast. She gathered the child into her arms, feeling her own tears, her own anger rising to overflowing. But she kept silent until she was able to say, rather calmly, "T'm sure it isn't that bad. I'm sure she likes you. She is just gg busy, there are so many children.. Sharon shook her head in ssilags disagreement and Enid held her more tightly in her arms, as if, by doing so, she could protect her against anything that might ever hurt Sharon again. Enid wanted to cry out, but again she forced herself to say quietly, though she was trembling, "Why don't you take this dime and run over and get us a couple of ice-cream cones while I finish up here. Then, we'll walk home together." Sharon's face brightened momentarily as Enid dried her eyes, and in a moment she was off to the store. | 545 That night when the child was asleep in her small bed, Enid sat in the lamplight, biting the end of a pen, staring at the white paper before her. Suddenly, the words seemed to start themselves and she began writing.. Swiftly.. Short, terse phrases... "I do not ask anything for my child that I do not ask for every child in the room.... The chance to be treated fairly.. An encouraging word for work well done..." She filled up the page, signed her name, folded it. Then she slipped it into an envelope, addressed it slowly, almost painfully. She wished there were some other way. She could go to the teacher in person, but she was afraid of her own emotions, afraid she would not be able to say what she wished to say. She sealed the envelope and set it beside the lamp where she would see it in the morning. Sometime, during the still hours, when the tears had spent themselves and she was staring into the darkness, it was almost as though a voice said to her, "Pray for those who despitefully use you." It seemed incredible to think of... To pray for Miss Hare with her haughtiness, her sharp tongue. Yet, as Enid thought of it, she was forced to admit that perhaps there was something back of it, some deep reason for her actions. Perhaps, it was a defense of some sort. How could one judge another.... Wise and gentle beyond her years, Enid closed her eyes and prayed for Miss Hare, prayed for her child. Prayed for wisdom for herself. (To be continued) \S\. FROM THE FIELD Margaret C. Pickering, General Secretary-Treasurer Regulations governing the submittal of material for "Notes from the Field" appear in the Magazine for February 1944, page 104. GENERAL ACTIVITIES AND SPECIAL PROGRAMS (Continued) BIG HORN STAKE (WYOMING), LOVELL WARD SINGING MOTHERS Front row, seated, left to right: Annella Franzoni; Reva Hansen; Jessie Robertson; Ada B. Baxter, accompanist; Carma B. Johnson, director; Thora H. Rollins; Hilma M. Hagg. Back row, standing, left to right: Lavon Tippets; Helen Wilcock; Lillian Stevens; Elma McArthur; Wanda Roberts; Daisy A. Tew; Aileen Dover; Toynette Tippets; Lavon Olsen; Chloe W. Harmon; Delilah H. Brown, wife of Bishop Frank Brown of the Lovell Ward. Sister Veoma Stahle, a member of the chorus, was not present when this picture was taken. Grace E. Allphin is president of the Big Hom Stake Relief Society; Edith Haskell is president of Lovell Ward Relief Society, with Thelma Corbridge and Zelpha Tippets as her counselors. Photograph submitted by Bishop Frank Brown Page 546 NOTES FROM THE FIELD 547 NAVAJO-ZUNI MISSION (NEW MEXICO), SHIPROCK BRANCH MEMBERS OF THE RELIEF SOCIETY Front row, left to right: Ida Poyer, Ann Yellowhorse; Ada Damon; Netti Nick; Fern Benally. Back row, left to tight: Angie Sells; Sarah Evans; Sister Tate; Nina Bloomfield; President Emma Evans. Photograph submitted by President Emma Evans. NAVAJO-ZUNI MISSION (NEW MEXICO), SHIPROCK BRANCH: Photograph taken at work meeting Standing, left to right: Sister Tate; Gwen Evans Jones; Emma Evans, President Navajo-Zuni Mission Relief Society; Sarah Evans. Seated, left to right: Ida Poyer, Ann Yellowhorse; Ada Damon; Nettie Nick. Photograph submitted by President Emma Evans 548 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST 1946 NORTH IDAHO FALLS STAKE (IDAHO), IDAHO FALLS SEVENTH WARD RELIEF SOCIETY OFFICERS AND VISITING TEACHERS Center, left to right: First Counselor Pearl Smith; President Vella Laird; Second Counselor Jane Holmes; Secretary-Treasurer Cleon T. Robertson. Left, front row, seated, left to right: Sarah Murdock; Ethel D. Lees; Agnes Young. Left, second row, seated, left to right: Vera Price; Midge Bybee; Doretha Lindholm; Thelma Beazer; Elsie Howard. Left, third row, seated, left to right: Emma Miller; Esther Johnson; Amanda Burke; Eula Levett; Helen Crandall; Jacosa Isom; Sarah Hathaway; Agnes Harding. Left, back row, standing, left to right: Anna Skinner; Sophia Nelson; Sarah Ann Ross; Mary Burke; Nadine Laird; Lydia Walker; Ida Thompson. Right, front row, seated, left to right: Irene Martin; Zelda Weeks; Rella Richards. Right, second row, seated, left to right: Martha Lingren; Ruth Westergard; Berniece Hudman; Oriel Brown; Mary Anderburg. Right, third row, seated, left to right: Leora Lords; Sylvia Burr; Betsey Schultz; Thelma Webster; Mere Johnson; Lucille Johnson; Thelma Steers. Right, back row, standing, left to right: Reva Mickelsen; Adelaide Westerburg; Mabel Harding; Rella Pack; Carol Weeks; Coleen Schultz; Ethel Ames. In the background is the beautiful mural: "The Wise and Foolish Virgins" painted for the Idaho Falls Fourth Ward chapel by Robert Shepherd. The new Seventh Ward continues to hold its services in the Fourth Ward chapel. NOTES FROM THE FIELD North Idaho Falls Stake (Idaho) Idaho, Falls Seventh Ward ROM North Idaho Falls Stake, under the direction of President May W. Andrus, the activities of the Idaho Falls Seventh Ward are reported by the secretary, Cleon T. Robertson: "On May 7, 1946, the officers and supervisors of the ward Relief Society gave a dinner in honor of the visiting teachers who had achieved 100 per cent in their activities, The gitls who served at this dinner were daughters of the visiting teachers: LaVern Lingren, Carol Weeks, Martha Keller, Glendora Thompson. A special guest was Sister Ethel Myles, visiting teachers' leadTIMPANOGOS STAKE (UTAH), FIVE LIVING RELIEF Standing, left to tight: Delilah R. Thelma F. Adamson. 549 er of the stake board. Sister Blen Frei gave a reading and Sister Lois Steel sang a solo, accompanied by Elaine Merrill at the piano. Velma Hurley gave the theology lesson. "Beautiful features of the entertainment were the centerpieces of red and pink roses given to the Society by Agnes Harding. Small scrolls were made by Sister Cleon Robertson, upon which were written scripts from the book Food For Thought. Speakers were Hazel Wright, Reva Mickelsen, and our President, Vella Laird. Our Magazine Tepresentative, Lucille Johnson, informed us that we have 100 per cent subscriptions in the visiting teachers' group." PLEASANT GROVE THIRD WARD SOCIETY PRESIDENTS Seated, left: Minnie L. Anderson; right, Margaret A. Holdaway, Fugal; Lydia A. Hilton, present president; Sister Adeline R. Nelson, the first president, passed away in 1941 at the age of eighty-one. Photograph submitted by Geneve J. Dalton, President, Timpanogos Stake Relief Society 550 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST 1946 The Importance of Thrift (Continued from page 509) established themselves firmly and securely "in the midst of the Rocky Mountains." Thrift is rooted deeply in human life and reflects the character of a people. Personal discipline and personal sacrifice are necessary to a strong character. Relief for the unfortunate and those handicapped calls for a great emotion, and can be supplied only by those who work and save. The modern world has been beguiled into a false sense of security and, sooner or later, it must learn that no social device can take the place of thrifty habits, frugal living, and hard work, in making people economically secure and politically free and independent. —oP Night Callers (Continuea from page 525) his speech lapsed into his native Shoshone. Turning, he summoned his braves to his side and ordered all his people to come to the great lodge. The lodge was a high, long tepee, covered with buffalo skins and filled, for decoration, with the heads of many animals. Nancy and her children were given the seat of honor beside the chief and his braves. The celebration began with a tribal dance. A young brave, dressed in brilliant scarlet and black, came into the center of the lodge. Thirty braves, painted and enveloped in beads and tiny bells, formed a large circle around him. At the sound of his drum, they all began moving in perfect unison. The dance was followed by a feast. Pumpkin, potatoes, corn, deer steaks, everything that the tribe had, was brought to Nancy, seated beside the chief. At the close of the feast, Nancy explained to her host her need for returning to her cabin in' the valley. Chief Many Feathers consented, and accompanied them down the mountain into the valley. They arrived at the door of the cabin just as the sun was slipping behind the peaks of the western mountains. As there were no wagon tracks in the soft, powdery earth, Nancy knew that Jim had not yet returned. At the door of the cabin, Chief Many Feathers stopped. Raising his arms, he removed a beautiful handwoven red, yellow, and blue blanket from around his broad shoulders. Stooping, he gently placed it around Nancy, and, for the first time, his face lost its stern look of noble dignity in a smile. He said, "Great Spirit of Shoshone children, keep evil one from wigwam of white princess." Nancy, unable to speak, grasped a hand of each of her children, and through her tears she watched the great chief swiftly climb the mountain path back to his people. LESSON Sheology—Church History Lesson I8—The Priesthood Quorums Expanded Elder H. Wayne Driggs For Tuesday, November 5, 1946 Objective: To show that the worthy male membership of the Church is eligible to «STN my name they shall do many wonderful works," were the words of the Master to Joseph Smith and six elders assembled at Kirtland, Ohio, in September of the year 1832 (Doc. And Cov. 84:66). It was at this time that more light was thrown upon the Priesthood and its great powers and blessings for man. In my name they shall cast out devils; In my name they shall heal the sick; in my name they shall open the eyes of the blind, and unstop the ears of the deaf; And the tongue of the dumb shall speak; And if any man shall administer poison unto them it shall not hurt them. And the poison of a serpent shall not have power to harm them (Doc. And Cov. 84:67-72). Now, to note the next verse: But a commandment I give unto them; that they shall not boast themselves of these things, neither speak them before the world; for these things are given unto you for your profit and for salvation. The Lord would give unto all his sons, who had become worthy, the power he himself possessed to perform great works. And to what end? To the end that all who sought him might profit and gain personal salvation. Here is true brotherhood. In the Lord's Church, the plan is to have members banned together fraternally as a devoted body, and to work out a personal salvation b actively striving for others. This means that each male member of the Church must be given an equal chance with all others to act officially in the name of the Lord in matters pertaining to gospel ordinances. Hence came the holy Priesthood. It is a known fact today in sociology, that for successful group cooperation, there must needs be an equality of privilege, at least in so far as membership rights are concerned. How such a principle has been applied to the lay membership of churches of the world today still begs for an answer. In matters of religious ordinance and ritual it is only the priests or ministers who have the opportunity to act for the group. To select the few who might be granted powers, can but leave the average church convert a_ passive bystander. He will but look in upon ways of serving the Lord. Page 55] receive the powers and blessings of the Priesthood.. 552 It was apparent from the very beginning of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints that the Lord had "his friends" (Doc. And Cov. 84:77), all of them, joining hands in the great call to serve. Every worthy member of the Church might expect the call for leadership in the Priesthood. But the plan of the Priesthood, as divinely institutcd, means more than just providing men with the opportunity to serve in positions of trust. As a mortal, man sooner or later must face the personal problems of life in an intimate way. Sickness strikes, and medical aid fails. Help must come from a higher source. Trouble comes, and one feels the need to seek divine guidance. A child attives at the age of baptism. A father's natural hope is to desire the right to perform all these ordinances for the family members. In the true Church, these personal privileges of a sacred nature may be performed by any worthy father in Zion who bears the Priesthood of God and receives the authorization from the man who holds the keys. The Lord has provided in his Priesthood for individual satisfaction as well as group service. All worthy members may have the right to act in his name, from the head of the Church to the last ordained member. Training for an understanding of this concept begins early. Boys at the age of twelve are ordained to the lesser Priesthood after the order of Aaron, as deacons. In company with other members of his quorum, each boy is assigned to the temporal duties of the Church by his bishop. He collects fast offerings, helps keep the chapel and its grounds RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST 1946 attractive, serves on welfare projects, passes the Lord's sacrament at meetings, and responds to many other worthwhile assignments. These are duties all deacons can perform. For those in the quorum who show leadership, the call comes to serve as president, counselors, or secretary. While such offices require more responsibility, they do not add any additional rights to the office of a deacon which the least member in - the quorum holds. Not many years pass before a boy ordained as a deacon may be advanced to a teacher, and then to a priest—which office is the highest in the lesser Priesthood. Within each of these callings are certain added responsibilities. These quicken a youth's religious convictions and function in his life because they provide him with activities that are of positive worth to his fellow quorum members and his Church. When the time arrives that a boy comes to the estate of young manhood, he may, through his worthiness, be advanced to the office of an elder. This calling sets him apart as a holder of the higher Priesthood after the order of Melchizedek, the great high priest who lived during the days of Abraham, and to whom Abraham came to pay tithes and offerings. The higher Priesthood bears the name of Melchizedek by express command for the purpose of avoiding the constant use of its real name, the Holy Priesthood of the Order of the Son of God. It is to this order that all worthy adult male members of the Church belong. Only special callings within this Priesthood set men apart as LESSON DEPARTMENT presidents, members of the Quorum of the Twelve, Seventies, etc. Every worthy father in Israel has the knowledge of the right this Priesthood gives him to administer to the sick, conduct a sacrament service for his family (if he lives apart from an organized ward or branch of the Church), and to teach his children the way of life with conviction as to his authoritative right to teach. In fact, such powers of the Priesthood as are given to all worthy members of the Lord's Church are so inclusive as to be the way of all life and good living both for here and hereafter. Once the full significance of the great plan of brotherhood, brought about through the function of the Priesthood, became clear to the members of the Church, the steady and enduring growth of God's kingdom upon earth was assured. It was as though the Lord had scattered abroad the good seeds of life which he knew would root and grow into the individual testimonies of thousands and thousands of saints. Today, throughout the world, Priesthood quorums are expanding. The pattern of these organizations has been so clearly marked and tested through the hundred years of growth that wherever groups of people come together and embrace 553 the faith there can be set up, immediately, the order of the Priesthood to provide the foundation and framework of the plan of life that builds character into the lives of boys and men. / These are the basic principles upon which the Lord, who is "no respecter of persons" (Acts 10:34), has builded his great Church in our day, until now, we no longer talk in terms of personalities and the personal drama of stirring events such as were known in the tender years of the little flock "who heard and believed the Prophet Joseph"; rather have we come to measure our strength in areas scattered over the face of the earth where our stakes, and our Priesthood quorums by the thousands, now exist. Yet beneath all these figures there still rests the simplicity of the gospel principle of brotherhood, upon which all great things are builded. Suggestions for Active Reading and Discussion With the help of the suggested read ing given below, have the class carry on the discussion as follows: First answer the question; second, read the assigned part of the text to discover wherein we must "give heed unto his word." 1. The Lord has promised great things, as well as given words of warning to those who would obtain the two Priesthoods in his Church. What has he said? Read Doc. And Cov. 84: 32-41. > THE NEW TESTAMENT Dorothy ]. Roberts 'And Jesus said...." Here are his words Brought safely through the ages down to me, And, though I cannot thank the ones who saved them, I read, believing they were meant for me. 554 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST 1946 Visiting Seachers' ITlessages—Our Pioneer Heritage Lesson 2—Love of Fellow Man President Amy Brown Lyman For Tuesday, November 5, 1946 Objective: To show that the pioneers possessed the qualities of character necessary to live the "second great commandment," love of neighbor. And behold, a certain lawyer stood up and tempted him, saying, Master, what shall I do to inherit eternal life? He said unto him, What is written in the law? How readest thou? And he answering said, Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, and with all thy soul, and with all thy strength, and with all thy mind; and thy neighbor as thyself. And he said unto him, Thou hast answered right: this do, and thou shalt live. But he, willing to justify himself, said unto Jesus, and who is my neighbor? (Luke 10:25-29). |e made answer by giving the parable of the good Samaritan, thus indicating that all men are neighbors to each other and should render unselfish and helpful service to their fellow men. After thus describing the unselfish service of the good Samaritan, he then said to the lawyer, "Go, and do thou likewise." It takes real strength of character as well as unselfishness to be neighborly and charitable in the broad sense which Jesus thus taught and thus emphasized. This doctrine is so strong and includes so much selfgiving and self-sacrifice that living it strictly is a real test of strength. Church history, as well as the pioneer stories which have come down to us, testify to the neighborliness, co-operation, and true charity practiced by the Mormon pioneers. ° Because of their common experiences, their common needs, and their common problems, they could well understand the inward feelings and desires, the hardships, sufferings, and heartaches of one another. They therefore sacrificed and shared together, they comforted one another, and thus helped to carry one another's burdens. In their preparation for the great western march—and especially during the journey—the pioneers traded and loaned their scant belongings, they divided and shared whatever they had in the way of food, clothing, bedding, and other supplies. One of the rules they adopted was, "Every man is to put as much interest in taking care of his brother's cattle as he would his own. And no man will be indulged in idleness." In those companies where space in the wagons for passengers was limited, and when there was hard pulling for the animals, in whatever wagons there was space, preference was given to little children, the aged, and those who were ill. After they reached the Valley, their co-operative efforts continued, and the stupendous work they accomplished in the first years was the result of their unselfishness; and LESSON DEPARTMENT the fraternal spirit that united and held them closely together, added to the spiritual guidance with which they were blessed. After the newcomers arrived, arrangements were soon made for their temporary employment. Public works were established on the temple block, in- 555 cluding shops for carpenters, blacksmiths, machinists, and others. In this way many received their first start in life in Utah. Thus, through their co-operation and _ neighborliness, they grew in understanding, unselfishness, benevolence, and brotherly love. Work Meeting —Sewing (A Cgurse for Optional Use by Wards and Branches at Work Meeting) Lesson 2—The Use of Tools and Treatment of Materials Work Meeting Committee, Velma N. Simonsen, Chairman For Tuesday November 12, 1946 Textbook Reference: The Complete Book of Sewing, Chapter HI Treatment of Fabrics NEARLY all types of material need some preparation before cutting out a garment. This includes woolens, cottons, linens, silk, and rayons. Reputable companies usually label their materials so that the purchaser may be sure of the kind of treatment, if any, that may be required. Unless otherwise specified, all cottons should be shrunk before cutting. If the cloth is colorfast, shrink it in hot water in order that the fibers of the material may be thoroughly penetrated, For a complete soaking, it is advisable to leave the material in the water all night, if possible. If you wish to retain the new look of the fabric, do not unfold it during the shrinking process, and press it while it is still damp. Stretch the selvage before pressing the center of the material, and iron it lengthwise. Woolens, unless they are to be tubbed, can be suecessfully treated by pressing with a steam iron, or they may be shrunk according to the instructions given on page 30 of The Complete Book of Sewing. Always clip the selvage and press the cloth lengthwise. Silks and rayons, if they are to be dry-cleaned, need not be shrunk, but, if they are to be tubbed, they should be shrunk. The same method used for cottons can be applied for silks and rayons, except that cooler water should be used. A_ small amount of vinegar or water softener may be added to the water. Use of Tools Before you start any sewing, be sure that everything you will need 556 for your work is assembled in a large workbox. Never start working without the right tools and all necessary supplies. Use good tools. Have on hand a supply of needles in sizes 1-12 for handwork, and oo-4 for sewing machines. After a little experience, you will realize the importance of selecting the correct size in both needles and thread for various types of fabrics. The professional seamstress strictly obeys this rule. Make a practice of using dressmaker's pins. These pins are sharp and do not mar the fabric. Keep them in a box by themselves, and do not use them for other purposes. Many people believe that they cannot sew with a thimble. It is impossible to sew successfully without a thimble. Select one that fits perfectly, but do not attempt to sew with it while it seems awkward and in the way. It requires days to become accustomed even to a new ring. The thimble presents an even more difficult problem. Put the thimble on the correct finger and wear it for several hours each © day until it is no longer an annoyance. Then begin to sew. It is necessary to become well acquainted with all the parts of the sewing machine. Know the purpose of each part and how it works. For this purpose it is advisable to secure from the maker of your particular sewing machine a book of instructions. Refer to this book when difficulties arise. Never tur any of the screws on your sewing machine unless you know what you are doing. Keep the machine welloiled and in good condition. A dress will have a homemade, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST 1946 clumsy look if the fine pin fitting of the garment has been destroyed in pressing. After a garment has been fitted to the curves of the body, if it is pressed on a straight board, the curved portions will be pressed out flat. Therefore, the curved portions should be pressed on a curved cushion. This type of cushion is very easy to make, and you will find it one of your most necessary tools for the well-turned seam, especially in the pressing of the sleeves. How to Make a Curved Cushion for Pressing Take two circular pieces of muslin, 12 inches in diameter, and sew them together with a % inch seam, leaving a small opening for the insertion of wadding. 'Turn the material inside out so that the seam is on the inside, and fill it solidly with woolen batting or chipped woolen scraps, such as woolen underwear. It is not advisable to use cotton for this purpose, since cotton batting has a tendency to wad and become lumpy. After the cushion has been stuffed, close the opening by stitching it carefully. Assignment for the instructor: Bring materials and be prepared to demonstrate steam iron and sheet shrinkage of woolens. Assignments for sewing class members: The sewing instructor should make all assignments one week before the lesson is to be given. For the November lesson, the sisters should each bring two circular pieces of muslin, twelve inches in diameter, and the stuffing for making the curved cushion. Assignment for December: Bring to the sewing meeting a tape measure and sufficient shrunk material for making one garment. LESSON DEPARTMENT 557 | pe ae as Revealed in Its Literature Lesson 2—Colonial Founders of America in Literature Elder Howard R. Driggs For Tuesday, November 19, 1946 iscovery, exploration, colonization are the first three steps in the epic of America's making. For the Latter-day Saints, the intriguing story reaches back to the days of Jared and Zarahemla, and down through the time of Lehi and his sons on their voyage to this goodly land for settlement and develop-. Ment. For other folk the beginning ~ of the epic is in the legends of the Viking, Lief the Lucky, who, it seems historically certain, found the shores of America about the year 1000 A. D., and remained with his followers for a brief period in a region they called Vineland. Then follows a lapse of nearly five hundred years before the land was rediscovered, as a "New World." Columbus, who believed as we do, that he was inspired by the Lord, piloted with dauntless courage the way across the fearsome Atlantic. In a stirring poem named for the great discoverer, Joaquin Miller makes one feel the heroic spirit and the vision of Columbus. Following are excerpts from this American lyric: Behind him lay the gray Azores, Behind the Gates of Hercules; Before him not the ghost of shores, Before him only shoreless seas. The good mate said: '"'Now must we pray, For lo! The very stars are gone. Brave Admiral, speak, what shall I say?" "Why, say, 'Sail on! Sail on! And on!' " Then, pale and worn, he paced the deck, And peered through darkness. Ah, that night Of all dark nights! And then a speck— A light! A light! At last a light! It grew, a starlit flag unfurled! It grew to be Time's burst of dawn. He gained a world; he gave that world Its grandest lesson: "On! Sail on!" Another poet who, with soullifting lines, has portrayed the spirit, the achievement, and nobility of Columbus, is Tennyson. In his poem of that title, the hero is pictured in chains, recounting to a friend high lights of his own life story. Following are typical lines: Chains for the Admiral of the Ocean! Chains For him who gave a new heaven, a new earth, As holy John had prophesied to me.... Who push'd his prows into the setting sun, And made West East.... Were you at Salamanca? No. We fronted there the learning of all Spain.... No guess-work! I was certain of my goal; Some thought it heresy.... Against God's word. Thus was I beaten back, And chiefly to my sorrow by the Church, And thought to tum my face from Spain,... But our Queen Recalled me, for at last their Highnesses Were half-assured this earth might be a sphere. All glory to the all-blessed Trinity, All glory to the mother of our Lord,... I have accomplish'd what I came to do. One thing that stands out in the story of Columbus is his attributing to divinity first honor for the achievement that marks his name. The isle on which he first set foot in the New World was named San Salvador (Holy Savior). With the banner of Spain as emblem of possession of the discovered realm, was planted the cross of Christ as a symbol of dedication of the domain to God. Religion has been the potent force that has held America thus far true to its course. Though lure of gold, desire for land, adventure, brought many to the New World, yet only love of God, expressed through active goodness, has permitted them to carry forward in the constructive development of America. This, we know, is in accord with divine promise made by American prophets long before Columbus or Lief the Lucky. In essence, they have said that this land is consecrated to God, and that it shall be a land of liberty so long as those possessing it shall serve him and keep his commandments (see II Nephi 1:5,7,8; also Ether 2:8-12). Our own part of America was settled largely by varied groups of people seeking a place where they might worship the Lord in peace. Thus came Protestants of different creeds, and Catholics to establish their communities or colonies. Among these God-fearing folk were the Pilgrims, justly extolled in the following poem. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST 1946 LANDING OF THE PILGRIM FATHERS The breaking waves dashed high On the stern and rockbound coast, And the woods against a stormy sky, Their giant branches tossed; And the heavy night hung dark The hills and waters o'er, When a band of exiles moored their bark On a wild New England shore. S * Amidst the storm they sang, And the stars heard, and the sea; And the sounding aisles of the dim woods rang To the anthem of the free! 2 * * There were men with hoary hair Amidst that pilgrim band; Why had they come to wither there, Away from their childhood's land? There was woman's fearless eye, Lit by her deep love's truth; There was manhood's brow, serenely high, And the fiery heart of youth. What sought they thus afar? Bright jewels of the mine? The wealth of seas, the spoils of war? They sought a faith's pure. Shrine. Aye, call it holy ground, The soil where first they trod! They have left unstained what there they found— Freedom to worship God! —Felicia Dorothea Hemans. Keeping this key thought clearly in mind—that true Americanism is rooted in Christian religion—and that our liberties are predicated on acting concertedly to keep in the path of God's righteousness—let us follow through this study of colonial founders of America. Since time will not permit taking up every one of these groups of freedom seekers, attention will be mainly centered on three leading ones. LESSON DEPARTMENT Old Virginia, to begin with, was first among the English-American colonies. In 1607, under charter which provided among other things for the extending of the principles of English freedom, a band of adventurers sailed in three ships into Chesapeake Bay and up the James River for a short distance. A convincing, if somewhat melodramatic, portrayal of these old days in Virginia, may be found in To Have and To Hold, by Mary Johnston. Its plot is set in the incident of bringing English girls to Virginia to be purchased by the planters. Another worthy novel picturing later days in this colony is The Crossing, by Winston Churchill. There is indeed a wealth of literature—poetry, fiction, oratory, which helps to bring the events and characters of the "Old Dominion," as the colony was sometimes called, vividly to us. At first glance, it might seem that there was little of religion connected with its founding and development. This, however, is far from true. Days of "the starving time," brought the adventurers, it would seem, to their knees. When Lord Baltimore with his relief ships sailed to the succor of the colony, he was hailed, it is said, "with chastened joy, and with the cry, 'It is the Lord of Hosts: God will raise our state and build his church in this excellent clime!'" Within this growing colony, the great son of Virginia, George Washington, was reared. With a Godfearing mother, and with religious influences about him, be became the Father of our Country. Though not a man of letters, he has left many precious words of counsel that re- 559 veal his truly religious spirit—among them these: A good moral character is the first essential in man. It is our duty to make the best of our misfortunes. True religion affords government its surest support. Another thing, besides its return to and cultivation of religion, marks the colony of Virginia as a soundly American commonwealth. This is the continuing fight of its patriot leaders for the fundamental principles of liberty. Though its settlers, at first, were largely of aristocratic type, and though it did not, in the beginning, permit religious liberty, there gradually rose defenders of freedom. In 1676, Nathaniel Bacon led a successful revolt against the King-appointed tyrant, Governor Berkeley, but the patriot died in the midst of victory. Others succeeded Bacon only to die as martyrs for liberty. Out of their spirit, one hundred years later, other Virginians rose to play brilliant roles in our war for freedom. - In 1620, thirteen years after the first colonists had come to Virginia, another group of English folk landed at Plymouth Rock, on the shore of what soon was to become Massachusetts. Simple, God-fearing folk were these Pilgrims, seeking a haven where they could work and worship together in peace. In solemn agreement, made on board the ship that had borne them across the stormy Atlantic, they stated clearly their purpose, and covenanted before God to co-operate in framing "just and 560 equal laws"—such as were deemed "for the general good of the colony" and promised obedience to these laws, enacted of their own free will and choice in their new homeland. This "Mayflower Compact" (see page 565) plainly set forth the basic principles of true Americanism. With its acceptance by these plain, honest folk, the cornerstone of our nation was laid. It was a dedication under God to the American way of life. To keep that pact, even now, is to assure us all of freedom in a realm consecrated to righteousness. A wealth of literature has been created around these Pilgrims and around another group of freedom seekers, the Massachusetts Bay Colony, who came ten years later to settle in the region where Boston, and nearby communities were developed. Some of these creations, doubtless read by many during school days, will yield new riches with rereading now to bring old colonial days, in thought, customs, and wholesome drama, closer to us. No finer picture of the Pilgrims has. Been given than Longfellow's poetic symphony "The Courtship of Miles Standish." Through its musical and artistic lines one feels the spirit of those earnest, God-fearing folk, sees them at work and worship, meets their serious problems, and realizes their fine courage and faith, their devotion to the Lord. Just a few excerpts here from the classic poem for illustration. These from the scenes of the return sailing of the Mayflower. John Alden, after his soul-searching experience with Priscilla and Miles Standish, is pictured as he: RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST 1946 Joined in the morning prayer, and in the treading of Scripture, And, with the others, in haste went hurrying down to the sea-shore, Down to the Plymouth Rock, that had been to their feet as a doorstep Into a world unknown—the comer-stone of a nation! He had resolved to go back with the ship, to forget his troubles: But as he gazed on the crowd, he beheld the form of Priscilla Standing dejected among them, unconscious of all that was passing. Suddenly his resolve changed and within himself he said: "Here I remain!... Yes, as my foot was the first that stepped on this rock at the landing, So, with the blessing of God, shall it be the last at the leaving!" Meanwhile the Master, alert, but with dignified air and important,... Walked about on the sands, and people crowded around him Saying a few last words, and enforcing his careful remembrance. Then, taking each by the hand, as if he were grasping a tiller, Into the boat he sprang, and in haste shoved off to his vessel, Glad in his heart to get rid of all this worry and flurry, Glad to be gone from a land of sand and sickness and sorrow, Short allowance of victual, and plenty of nothing but Gospel! Lost in the sound of the oars was the last farewell of the Pilgrims. O strong hearts and true! Not one went back in the Mayflower! * * * the Long in silence they watched the receding sail of the vessel,... Then, as if filled with the spirit, and wrapt in a vision prophetic, Baring his hoary head, the excellent Elder of Plymouth Said, "Let us pray!" and they prayed, and thanked the Lord and took cour- =... LESSON DEPARTMENT So they returned to their homes; but Alden lingered a little, Musing alone on the shore, and watching the wash of the billows Round the base of the rock, and the sparkle and flash of the sunshine, Like the spirit of God, moving visibly over the waters. * e Ge Thinking of many things, and most of all of Priscilla;... Lo! As he turned to depart, Priscilla was standing beside him. Hawthorne's Scarlet Letter, portraying stern Puritanism, is another classic story. In "Mabel Martin," by Whittier, we have echoes of old witchcraft days. Another of his poems, "Snowbound," is an artistic portrayal of the wholesome family life of old New England. For bits of humor with colonial flavor—yes, critics to the contrary notwithstanding, the Puritans did get some good fun out of living—we may turn to such selections as "The Wonderful One Hoss Shay," by Holmes, "The Courtin'," by Lowell, or "The PineTree Shillings," by Hawthorne. A few excerpts, from the story last named, will serve here to illustrate this earlier day humor. Captain John Hull—be it said for introduction——as mint-master of the colony, had by melting up battered silverware of all sorts, and transforming it into bright pine-tree shillings, and taking his honest toll for the service, made himself rich. Then came Samuel Sewell, a "personable young man," of. Good habits, and "a member of the church," courting the mint-master's only daughter, who is called Betsy. In describing her, the author says that she was "'by no means so slender as some young ladies in our own days. On the contrary, having always fed heartily on pumpkin pies, doughnuts, Indian puddings, and other Puritan dainties, she was as round and plump as a pudding herself." 561 To young Samuel, when he asked for her hand, the father said in his rough way, "Yes, you may take her; and you'll find her heavy burden enough...." On the wedding day we may suppose that honest John Hull dressed himself in a plum-colored coat, all the buttons of which were made of pine-tree shillings.... Thus attired he sat with great dignity in his armchair; and being a portly old gentleman, he completely filled it from elbow to elbow. On the opposite side of the room, between her bridesmaids, sat Miss Betsy. She was blushing with all her might, and looked like a fullblown peony or a big red apple. The mint-master was pleased with his new son-in-law, especially as he had courted her out of pure love, and had said nothing at all about her marriage portion, or dowry. So when the marriage ceremony was over, he whispered a word to two of his menservants, who immediately went out, and soon returned, lugging in a large pair of scales. They were such a pair as merchants use for weighing bulky commodities; and quite a bulky commodity was now to be weighed in them. "Daughter Betsy," said the mint-master, "get into one side of these scales." Miss Betsy—or Mrs. Sewell, as we must call her—did as she was bid, like a dutiful child.... But what her father could mean, unless to make her husband pay for her by the pound (in which case she would have been a dear bargain) she had not the least idea. "And now," said honest John Hull... "bring that box hither." The huge box was tugged across the floor. Unlocked by the father, it was found "full to the brim of bright pinetree shillings." At the Captain's command, the servants heaped these, handful after handful, into one side of the scales, on the other side of which stood the bride. Finally, "plump and ponderous as she was, they fairly weighed the young ladv from the floor." "There, son Sewell!" cried the honest mint-master, "take those shillings for my daughter's portion. Use her kindly and thank Heaven for her. It is not every wife that is worth her weight in silver." From G/randfather's Chair, by thorne. Haw 562 ~ Appreciative rereading of some of these classic selections will bring clearer pictures of colonial New England. The pictures were drawn when their creators were closer to that life. Better acquaintance with the earlier portrayals will also enhance the reading of more modern creations dealing with the same general materials and themes. In Western Star, by the late gifted poet, Stephen Vincent Benet, will be found a realistic and appreciative portrayal of modern cast, of the early Virginia colonists and the Pilgrims. This is a theme that has attracted authors of America through the years. It was in 1683 that Penn, on the good ship, Welcome, sailed up the Delaware River to join the people of his chosen faith who had preceded him to America. In response to the welcome that greeted him he said simply: "You shall be governed by laws of your own making, and live a free, and if you will, a sober and industrious people." On the banks of the Delaware, he laid out Philadelphia, the "City of Brotherly Love." A legislature appointed by the people was to make all the laws. There was to be no religious intolerance; those of every faith were welcomed. No tax could be levied, save by law. All that was required of freemen to vote and hold office was that they believe in God and keep his Sabbath day holy. Every child was to be taught some useful trade. Penn's peaceful policy in dealing with the red men is proverbial. Under a spreading elm at Shackamaxon, he met with their ledders. "The RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST 1946 friendship between you and me," he said to them, "I will not compare with a chain; for that the rains might rust.. We are all one flesh and blood." — Touched by the white leader's kindliness and sincerity, the Indians responded, "We will live in love with William Penn and his children as long as the sun and moon shall shine." On strings of wampum they kept record of the treaty, and would often rehearse its provisions. It is said to be the one and only treaty that was never sworn to, and never broken, Latter-day Saints will appreciate this story, for the policy adopted by President Young with the Indians of the West was in spirit and actions closely akin to that of William Penn. For a clearer view of old Philadelphia by one who knew it intimately, one should read The Autobiography of Benjamin Franklin. As a boy in severe Boston, he sighed for a place more genial and friendly; and he found just this in the "City of Brotherly Love." His story of the trip he made there by working his passage on a boat through Long Island Sound, and afoot across New Jersey, again by boat down the Delaware until he came to the "quaint old Quaker town," and of the first days he spent there, are classic. Through his life story, much of it in this Philadelphia setting, one may get clear, convincing pictures of old colonial days. There is no better firsthand book dealing with those times. John Greenleaf Whittier, himself a Quaker, also brings us close to the heart of the followers of William Penn, Here are a few stanzas from LESSON DEPARTMENT a poem in which he pays tribute to these simple, God-fearing folk: The Quaker of the olden time! How calm and firm and true, Unspotted by its wrong and crime, He walked the dark earth. Through. * * * He walked by faith and not by sight, By love and not by law; The presence of the wrong or right He rather felt than saw. He felt that wrong with wrong partakes, That nothing stands alone, That whoso gives the motive, makes His brother's sin his own. * *& * O Spirit of that early day, So pure and strong and true, Be with us in the narrow way Our faithful fathers knew. Necessary limits to this study preclude more than passing tribute to the other liberty-fostering colonies of our America. Each of these, picturesque and significant in conttibutions to the life and progress of our country towards freedom, has its own intriguing story and wealth of literature. In New York, formerly New Amsterdam, it was the sturdy Dutch who first made settlements. Popular portrayals in humorous, yet appreciative vein, by Irving, have given us entertainment through the years. We must read between the lines, however, of Rip Van Winkle and the Legend of Sleepy Hollow, to get at the true, thrifty, hardworking folk he playfully portrays. To the Dutch, America owes much for their promotion of free schools, their religious tolerance, their unwavering support of fundamental principles of free government. As one poet has written: 563 Yet deem them not for ndicule a theme, These worthy burghers and their spouses kind, Scorning of heartless pomp, the gilded dream, To deeds of peaceful industry inclined, In hospitality sincere and grave, Inflexible in truth, in simple virtue brave. —Mrs. Sigourney Maryland, settled by the persecuted Catholics, is another colony deserving of more extended study than can be given here. Under Lord Baltimore, who founded this haven for an oppressed people, two ships, the Ark and the Dove, sailed into Chesapeake Bay in 1629, and planted the city that bears this leader's name. Its charter gave to all freemen voice in making the laws. All sects were to be tolerated; and there was to be no taxing by England. Another group of religious refugees, the Huguenots from France, found a new home on the shores of America—partticularly in the Carolinas. They brought not only new fruits and flowers to that sunny clime, but also the refinements of their old French homeland, and withal they carried industry, charity, and morality, and love of freedom with them. Puritan intolerance was largely responsible for the founding of another colony of truly American spirit. Roger Williams, insistent on freedom of conscience in his worship, was made so uncomfortable in Massachusetts, that he finally left for the wilds and found welcome with the Narraganset Indians. Red men, be it said, seem not to have made differences in religion a bar to their hospitality. In essence, the story of many other or fo were largely of Epi | Select ome lines Tom a em, °nnecticut, like Rho Is and, be. Terature Ortraying Colonial Jif, Massachusetts aS followers of Thomread it aloud for others of the class. Ideal they €xempli ©Wn governing, fre dom under self. Fed Made laws. Were Ndamenta]s Bibk; h Or these Colonial by Iders of €ar] tOgtaphy "Pica, 'T, all the literature that Benet, Stephen Vincent: Western Star uly Voices the €art o hese Varied 4 Tealistic Poem of Virginians and Pj] TOups of e] fi - a 7 -. A Autobiography B 4 home in the New d, for which awthorne, thanie] andfather's €y endured hardshj d dangers Chair. F. 7 ful One Hos Shay." a ~~ z '7 i nett Bive 28, Washington: Rip Van Winkle ter all), TVing, ashington: Legend of Sleepy Ho, F Longfellow, Hen Wa - On what Passages of Scripture js this dsworth: "The ttship of les Standish » "rica shall be a land SP of Mile andis on [ The Courtin'," V, ittier, John Greenleaf. "Mabel Mart. Whittier, John Greenleaf. I ee MATERNAL REVERIE Della Adams Leitner; Facing the days, J Wait with awe and wonder: € life in Me is ancient: > It has come rough &€nerations | can never number. Ave donated some, their weaknesses, desires__ "Snowbound ": came a homeland for Many who Ht aracter, or jg Is; and as Hooker, and also of Anne Hutched. | Was that for hich he 0 oo Precious ~s they oe Discussion and Activities ScOpalian faith. Novel Short st, TY, Oration oy ollier p Prepared to >. Be ready, under the di awthorne, Nat aniel: T, € Scarlet Lette Holmes, Oliver Wendell. "The Wonder. OMnston, } "N° To'Hime and To Hold LESSON DEPARTMENT = a 565 She Mlayflower Compact November 11, 1620 "In the naine of God, Amen. We whose names are underwriten, the loyal subjects of our dread soveraigne Lord, King James, by the grace of God, of Great Britaine, Franc, and Ireland king, defender of the faith, etc. "Having undertaken for the glorie of God, and advancemente of the Christian faith and honour of our king and countrie a voyage to plant the first colonie in the Northerne parts of Virginia, doe by these presents solemnly and mutualy in the presence of God, and one. Of another, covenant and combine ourselves togeather into a civill body politick, for our better ordering and preservation and furtherance of the ends aforesaid; and by virtue hereof to enacte, constitute, and frame such just and equall lawes, ordinances, acts, constitutions, and offices, frome time to time, as shall be thought most meete and convenient for the generall good of the colonie, unto which we promise all due submission and obedience. "In witness whereof we have hereunder subscribed our names at Cap-Codd the.11. Of November, in the year of the raigne of our soveraigne lord, King James, of England, Franc, and Ireland, the eighteenth, and of Scotland the fiftie fourth. Anno-Dom. 1620" (William Bradford, History of Plymouth Plantation, page 191). PRICELESS GEM Ruth H. Chadwick Within my soul a jeweled faith Holds firm my trust in God; Its sparkling facets guide my steps Across uncharted sod. 566 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST 1946 Optional sessons in ebseu of J levature The Gospel as a Way of Life Lesson 2—The General Gospel Plan Elder T. Edgar Lyon For Tuesday, November 19, 1946 S pointed out in the lesson *" last month, one great principle which we struggled to maintain in the pre-existence was that of individual free agency. As a necessary step for the utilization of this principle, the earth was created and we were given mortal existence. Earth life thus became, in reality, a laboratory in which mortals were to | exercise the gift of free agency in the choice of good and evil. We believed in this plan so intently that we accepted the responsibility of earth life without any guarantee of our ultimate exaltation. It was a time "when the morning stars sang together, and the sons of God shouted for joy" (Job 38:7). Mankind was thus placed upon the earth to pass through a period of apprenticeship that would be a preparation for the next step in eternal progression. Certain things were expected of those who accepted mortality. First, obedience to the commandments of God was anticipated. And one that was like unto God had said, "And we will prove them herewith, to see if they will do all things whatsoever the Lord their God shall command them" (Abraham 3:25). From this scripture it is evident that obedience to divine law is the first requirement for readmittance into the presence of God, but it is merely the minimum requirement. — A second obligation in connection with the use of free agency and its exercise is that of taking the initiative to do more than give mere obedience to specific commandments. The Lord has instructed us to watch for opportunities to render service to others and assume the responsibility of taking the initiative in such matters. For behold, it is not meet that I should command in all things; for he that is compelled in all things, the same is a slothful and not a wise servant; wherefore he receiveth no reward. Verily I say, men should be anxiously engaged in a good cause, and do many things of their own free will, and bring to pass much righteousness; For the power is in them, wherein they are agents unto themselves. And _ inasmuch as men do good they shall in nowise lose their reward. But he that doeth not anything until he is commanded and receiveth a commandment with doubtful heart, and keepeth it with slothfulness, the same is damned... (Doc. And Cov. 58:26-29). This scripture is positive in its teaching that the Lord requires us to do more than merely observe commandments. We must be prepared to go "the second mile" (Matt. 5:41). There is a third item that needs to be observed in connection with LESSON DEPARTMENT our earthly probation. It is the attitude of mind that we should have toward life itself and the problems that present themselves in the course of life. Instead of viewing life as a mournful burden to be tolerated but not enjoyed, God would have us take an optimistic view of life, and rejoice in the process of seeking salvation. The Book of Mormon prophet, Jacob, expressed this idea as follows: Therefore, cheer up your hearts, and remember that ye are free to act for yourselves—to choose the way of everlasting death or the way of eternal life (II Nephi 10:23). In this dispensation the Lord reiterated this doctrine through the Prophet Joseph Smith. In speaking of observing the Lord's day and othcr religious requirements, the revelation reads in part, "... Do these things with thanksgiving, with cheerful hearts and countenances..." (Doc. And Cov. 59:15). A fourth obligation of free agents who have accepted the gospel is to be diligent in the use of their agency for the welfare of the Church. Although the Lord has placed inspired leadership at the head of the Church, there is also a strong element of democracy in it. Ordinations to the Priesthood, selection of officers, and other functions demand that the inspired nominations by the apappointed leaders be ratified or tejected by the membership. It is a fundamental teaching of the Lord to the Church that "And all things shall be done by common consent in the Church.. 2" (Doc and Cov. 26:2; see also 28:13). This teaching demands that each free agent exer- 567 cise his agency in the sustaining or rejecting of these propositions. One of our latter-day prophets, John Taylor, had very positive opinions concerning the use of his agency. He viewed it not only as a God-given blessing, but also as something that he was required to use to the best of his ability. The following quotation is indicative of his attitude: I have felt very decided... Ever since I could comprehend anything; that I would worship God as I pleased, without anybody's dictation, and that I would dictate to no man his faith, neither should any man dictate to me my faith... (B. H. Roberts, Life of John Taylor, pp. 422, 423). From the foregoing scriptural quotations and observations, it is apparent that the free agency of man is a divine principle. Furthermore, it places on mankind a tremendous responsibility for all human conduct. Few of us seem to fully sense either the true value of agency or our responsibility to make an intelligent use of it. In his letter to the saints at Rome, the apostle Paul defined the gospel of Christ as "... The power of God unto salvation to every one that believeth..." (Rom. 1:16). Brigham Young stated this idea with great clarity when he said: The Gospel of the Son of God that has been revealed is a plan or system of laws and ordinances, by strict obedience to which the people who inhabit this earth are assured that they may return again into the presence of the Father and the Son (Discourses of Brigham Young, page 1). These statements indicate that there are two elements in the gospel—one is the saving power of 568 God, the other js the effort that people put forth to make their lives conform to God's Prescribed way of living, A thoughtful reading of the scriptures indicates that Christ was not teaching a mere system of belief. His message demanded action. Recall the parables of the good Samaritan (Luke 10:25-37); the prodigal son (Luke 1511-32); the lost sheep (Luke 15:3-7); and the lost coin (Luke 15:8-10); and many others. Each parable demonstrates that Work is required of the true Christan. The man who fell among thieves on the Jericho road was not helped until the Samaritan rendered service. The Prodigal son was not benefited until he made the decision to return to his father. The lost sheep was not found until the shepherd went after it. The lost coin was recovered only after the woman swept the house and sought diligently for it. One of the frequent admonitions of Jesus, at the conclusion of a parable or illustration was, "Go, and do thou likewise" (Luke 10:37), The gospel of Christ is thus, 'in teality, a Way of living and acting, instead of just a way Of believing. The goal of mortal existence is to struggle upward through obedience to God's commands, the rendering of service, and belief in God and Christ, to a state of exaltation. Jesus had this in mind when he said, "Be ve therefore perfect, even as your Father which is jn heaven is perfect (Matt. 5:48). We its fulness. It was not until after the atonement of RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST 1946 Jesus was completed, that the gospel plan was finally consummated. It is for this reason that we should fee] especially blessed to be allowed to come to earth in this, the dispensation of the fulness of times, when the knowledge of all former gospel ages has been revealed to us. "If you are relaxation, and ease, to say nothing catth." He probably thought he was witty, but he really spoke the truth. Some of the most appealing teachings of the Testored Church are those of never-ending development, opportunity for creative activity, and Progression toward a state of godhood. Many people, however, view these interesting ideals as things that are to be confined to the hereafter. The true interpretation that the gospel teaches us, however, is that today and yesterday are just as much a part of eternity as any day that is to come. This concept, if properly understood, should stimu. Late each Church member, each day, to make the most of his opportunities for Progress, service, and de. Velopment. In discussing this interpretation, Brigham Young said: §0 and destroy yourselves, if you - + + I do not believe that the Lord delights in people who wish to die before they have accomplished the work that he designed for them to do... Instead of Preparing to die, Prepare to live in the midst of all the cxaltations of the Gods. We are organized for the ex. LESSON DEPARTMENT press purpose of controlling the elements, of organizing and disorganizing, of ruling over kingdoms, principalities, and powers, and yet our affections are often too highly placed upon paltry, perishable objects. We love houses, gold, silver, and various kinds of property, and all who unduly prize any object there is beneath the celestial world are idolators. (Discourses of Brigham Young, pp. 135, 136, 137; 1941 Ed. Pp. 88, 89, go). President Joseph F. Smith aptly said: Some people dream... And teach that all the glory they ever expect to have in the world to come is to sit in the light and glory of the Son of God, and sing praises and songs of joy and gratitude all their immortal lives. We do not believe in any such things. We believe that every man will have his work to do in the other world, just as surely as he had it to do here, and a greater work than he can do here. We believe that we are on the road of advancement, of development in knowledge, in understanding, and mn every good thing, and that we will continue to grow, advance, and develop throughout the eternities that are before us (Gospel Doctrine, page 453). The ultimate goal that we hope to achieve is the blessed state described in the Doctrine and Covenants. They are they who are priests and kings, who have received of his fulness. And of his glory; and are priests of the Most High, after the order of Melchizedek, which was after the order of Enoch, which was after the order of the Only Begotten Son. Wherefore, as it is written, they are gods, even the sons of God'? (Doc. And Cov. 76:56-58). 569 Then shall they be gods, because they have no end; therefore shall they be from everlasting to everlasting, because they continue; then shall they be above all, because all things are subject unto them. Then shall they be gods, because they have all power, and the angels are subject unto them (Doc. And Cov. 132:20). Discussion and Activity Problems 1. Why is it a good thing that our memory of the pre-existent state is taken from us during mortality?. What is required beyond obedience to the specific commandments of the gospel?. What do we mean when we say that the gospel is eternal? 4. Why do. You suppose the Latter-day Saints teach that heaven is a place of continued activity rather than a place of rest? 5- Have a class member read the words of song No. 37 in L. DS. Hymns, "Know This, that Every Soul Is Free." 6. If the lesson is properly presented, the sisters should be stimulated by its central thoughts to express their gratitude, during the discussion, for their agency and their hope for exaltation in the life to come. N Ww References: Milton R. Hunter, The Gospel Through the Ages, pp. 58-89, 104-129. Joseph F. Smith, Gospel Doctrine, pp. A Joseph Fielding Smith, The Way to Perfection, pp. 7-14; 24-28, 55-59- James E. Talmage, Vitality of Mormonism, pp. Dep DeaeeS, ZOpeIO~. Discourses of Brigham Young, pp. 1-26, 133-146; 1941 Ed. Pp 1-17, 87-95. IP THE POPLARS Thelma Ireland Like an artist's brush they stand, Each poplar, tall and lean; They seem to try to paint the sky Of blue with verdant green. 570 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST 1946 Social Science—The Family in the Gospel Plan Lesson 2—The Family Organization Social Science Committee, Leone O. Jacobs, Chairman For Tuesday, November 26, Lesson Link: 1946 In the previous lesson we considered the eternal nature of the family unit. We discussed briefly the pre-existence as the first stage of human development, then stressed the importance of mortality as a proving ground. We learned that marriage is ordained of God and is to be in effect throughout eternity. We shall now consider the practical workings of the family unit, the qualities that are essential for harmonious and successful family life, and the responsibilities of the various members of the family for the welfare of the whole. N gencral conference of April 1945, President David O. McKay delivered a forceful address on the subject "Marriage and Divorce" (see Improvement Era for May 1945). He pointed out that "... Marniage is ordained of God unto man" and that, through having offspring, man enables the earth to "answer the end of its creation; And that it might be filled with the measure of man, according to his creation before the world was made" (Doc. And Cov. 49:15-17). President McKay states that: Marriage is a sacred relationship entered into for purposes that are well recognized—primarily for the rearing of a family. To look upon marriage as a mere contract that may be entered into at pleasure in response to a romantic whim, or for selfish purposes, and severed at the first difficulty or misunderstanding that may arise, is an evil meriting severe condemnation, especially in cases wherein children are made to suffer because of such separation. With such a lofty and serious concept, how can Latter-day Saint husbands and wives have other than the deepest respect for the marital bonds? It is a wise providence that provides two parents in a_ family. "Nevertheless neither is the man without the woman, neither the woman without the man, in the Lord" (I Cor. 11:11). One parent cannot say to the other, "My place is more important than yours." Latter-day Saints believe in the equality of the sexes, each in its own sphere. Woman is not considered inferior to man but only different in make-up, as he, in his way, is different from woman. The proper rearing of children is so complex and important that it requires the loving co-operation of both a father and a mother to do it full justice. Moreover, the father and mother, in their divergent personalities, backgrounds, and accomplishments, complement and strengthen each other, and thus build solidarity into the home. When it becomes necessary for one parent to assume the responsibilities of both, there occurs a gap which can never be entirely filled. In general, the responsibility of the father in the home is that of providing sustenance for the family and that of the mother is the bearing LESSON DEPARTMENT and rearing of children. He js fitted by nature to be the protector and leader, while the capabilities of Yet in all important matters, the judgment and influence of both are True Latter-day Saints believe in having large families. It could not be otherwise when we consider that God's first command to man, after his creation, was to multiply and replenish the earth. That admonition is as binding today as it was to our first Parents in the Garden of Eden. President George Albert Smith has said, "it was in the plan of our Heavenly Father that every living thing that he created should reproduce after its kind." Children are Priceless treasures. No greater joy can come to mortals than that experienced through bringing spirits into the world and rearing them accord. Mg to righteous Ptinciples. "Ag alTOws are in the hand of a mighty man; so are children of the youth. Happy is the man that hath his quiver full of them..." (Psalms 127:4-5), Opportunities for development in a family of several children are greater than in a smal] family. The associations in large families tend to develop qualities of character and disposition that make for genuine success and happiness. And take" children to live more harmoniously with those both within fines of the home. An authority on child welfare has said that an only child has a twenty per cent handj- 57] cap in marriage, because he has less chance of making a satisfactory adjustment than 4 child who has brothers and sisters, Attributes of Parents Parents, first of all, must love each other dearly and should exhibit love and tenderness toward each other. Affection between Parents is not a thing of which to be ashamed, yet some parents seem embarrassed to display their affection before the children. This makes it appear an unnatural demonstration, Affection among members of the family js beautiful and refining. How can children be expected to exhibit love and tenderness toward Parents and toward each other if the parents themselves do not set the example? For one Parent to criticize ory make disparaging remarks about the other is disastrous to the unity of the family, Children are embar. Tassed when this occurs. The oneness of the family is questioned. Hey may even take sides with one or the other parent or become disillusioned in both. Parents should uphold the decisions of each other before the children and always present a united front. If mother says "No," father should not say "Yes." For example: If father has told Peter he cannot go to scout mecting until the lawn is cut, mother should not allow him to go before the task is completed. F mother is disciplining Alice for, father should not sympathize and tell her to come out before the time is up. Parents must tty to see each other's viewpoint and Tespect each oth- 572 er's opinions even though they may differ. The fact that Mr. And Mrs. Brown have different views on the advisability of buying a car, or sending Johnny to college, or taking a vacation, does not necessarily mean that they are at loggerheads with each other. Pros and cons can be discussed amicably until a united decision is reached. It is not a sign of weakness to give in or to change one's mind—in fact, many times it is a sign of courage or unselfishness. And, when an agreement is reached on any problem, both parents should stand by that decision. With no feeling of resentment or animosity. Father's Place and Responsibility in the Home The father is the recognized head of the family, the bearer of the Priesthood. There is no higher authority in matters relating to the family organization, and especially when that organization is presided over by one holding the higher Priesthood, than that of the father. The authority is time honored, and among the people of God in all dispensations it has been highly respected and often emphasized by the teachings of the prophets who were inspired of God. The patriarchal order is of divine origin and will continue throughout time and eternity..... Wives and children should be taught to feel that the patriarchal order in the kingdom of God has been established for a wise and beneficent purpose, and should sustain the head of the household and encourage him in the discharge of his duties, and do all in their power to aid him in the exercise of the rights and privileges which God has bestowed upon the head of the home.... It is not merely a question of who is perhaps the best qualified.. Neither is it wholly a question of who is living the most worthy life. It is a question largely of law and order... (Gospel Doctrine, pp. 359, 360). RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST 1946 When the Priesthood is magnified by the father, the entire family may receive its blessings and inspitation. It is the privilege of the father to exercise the Priesthood in the administration of the sick in his home and to unite his faith with members of the family for the restoration of health. When others are called in to assist in this ordinance, it is the father's place to preside. A father should take pride and joy in blessing and naming his children, in baptizing and confirming them members of the Church, and in taking part in ordinations to the Priesthood of members of the family. It is his responsibility to preside at the table, at family prayers, and in giving general direction to the family. He should be a worthy example in attending to Church duties and in all matters of conduct. It is the responsibility of the father to provide an adequate living for his family. This means food and clothing sufficient for health and self-respect, a respectable home, medical attention, and some provision for wholesome recreation. It is not wise to give to children all the things they wish. President Joseph F. Smith says of this: When indulgent parents fancy that they are adding to the pleasure of their children's lives by giving to them whatever they wish, such parents are in fact destroying the capacity of their children to enjoy the gratification of desires weakened and perverted by over-indulgence. The ability to give to children wisely is indeed a rare attainment, and is acquired only by a thoughtful and prudent exercise of the highest sense of duty which parents can feel for their children. Duty is always prefcrable to indulgence (Gospel Doctrine, page 373). LESSON DEPARTMENT A father should be a companion to his wife and children. Recreation and amusement should be planned whereby the family may associate together and enjoy each other's company. A father who enjoys playing games with the children, going on hikes and excursions, usually keeps close to his children. There are few circumstances under which family members learn to love and appreciate each other more than when they play together. At such times there is an excellent opportunity to teach children some of the great lessons of life, without their being aware of it—without preachment. Occasions arise when fair play, truthfulness, courtesy, fulfilling one's word, cooperation, and many other sterling qualities may be firmly implanted in their lives. Mother's Responsibility in the Home Motherhood is a sublime calling. No public career contributes as much to humanity as does the successful rearing of children. Brigham Young said, ""I"he mothers are the moving instruments in the hands of Providence to guide the destinies of nations." A mother should first of all uphold her husband as head of the family and in all righteous endeavors. If she sets the example in upholding him, the children will naturally follow her example. She should sustain him in all his Church duties, be proud of his work in the things of God, and encourage and assist him to faithfully fulfill his obligations. Latter-day saint wives enjoy a privilege of which other women know nothing; the heads of their 573 households are men holding the Priesthood of God. Sister Augusta Winters Grant, wife of President Heber J. Grant, said, in an article in The Relief Society Magazine: As a Latter-day Saint wife I honor my husband as a man holding the Priesthood. It is my firm conviction that if the women of our Church would rely unfalteringly upon the inspiration of their husbands, in all important matters concerning their family affairs, they would find that their husbands would grow in the power of disceinment and decision through the exercise of their Priesthood (Relief Societv Magazine, Nov. 1936, page 671). Not only is motherhood a divine calling, but it is a practical one as well. A mother needs skill in various fields. She must be able to prepare nutritious and appetizing meals, and to make her home attractive and comfortable—a place where friends and relatives may feel the warmth of hospitality. Birthdays, anniversaries, and holidays should be made oceasions of special significance and pleasure to the family. 'The mother should know the fundamentals of home nursing, that the health of her family may be safeguarded. She must know how to budget the family income wisely so that full value is received and the necessities of life provided. Brigham Young gave this definition of a woman's responsibilities: It is the calling of the wife and mother to know what to do with everything that is brought into the house, laboring to maké her home desirable to her husband and children, making herself an Eve in the midst of a little paradise of her own crteating, securing her husband's love and confidence, and tying her offspring to her- 574 self, with a love that is stronger than death... (Discourses of Brigham Young, page 307; 1941 Ed., page 198). It is the duty of both parents to teach their children, from infancy, upright conduct, but this responsibility devolves upon mothers far more than upon fathers, for mothers are with their children a greater part of the time. At a mothers knee children should be taught all good habits and practices. Gospel training must not be left to the auxiliary organizations of the Church. 'They only supplement the fuller teaching children should receive in the home. Children's Responsibilities —Versus -Rights Responsibilities Children are under obligation to render respect and obedience to their parents. "Honor thy father and thy mother" is a command that will ever be in effect. Life is a great gift, and for this gift alone, children should respect and honor parents. Children should be willing to work and share with members of the family and to sacrifice, if necessary, for the welfare of any of the group. Work is a blessing and each child should have duties to perform in proportion to his age and strength. It is good for children to learn the value of money. A certain family for several years had a maid who did the housework; but after some years of service, the maid married and left their employ. At this juncture, the children of the family said, "Why cannot we do the work and earn the money she reRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST 1946 ceived?" The parents thought it a splendid suggestion and, since that time, the children have each assumed responsibility for certain household tasks, in return for which they have been given money for clothes and recreation. They have learned the value of money, developed skill in housekeeping, and gained a feeling of usefulness and independence. When parents become old or dependent it should be the joy, as well as the duty, of children to support and lovingly care for their parents. Rights Children have rights in the home as well as responsibilities. 'They have a right, as they grow older, to a voice in certain family decisions and problems. Sharing in family problems matures children and proves to them that they are an integral part of the family unit. They should have the privilege of inviting their friends to the home and of being assured that the friends will receive cordialtreatment. President McKay has said: There are three fundamental things to which every child is entitled: (1) a respected name, (2) a sense of security, (3) opportunities for development. The family gives to the child his name and standing in the community. A child wants his family to be as good as those of his friends. He wants to be able to point with pride to his father, and to feel an inspiration always as he thinks of his mother... A child has the right to feel that in his home he has a place of refuge, a place of protection from the dangers and evils of the outside world. Family unity and integrity are necessary to supply this need. He needs parents who are happy in their adjustment to each other, who are working hopefully toward the fulfilment LESSON DEPARTMENT of an ideal of living, who love their children with a sincere and unselfish love; in short, who are well-balanced individuals, gifted with a certain amount of insight, who are able to provide the child with a wholesome emotional background which will contribute more to his development than material advantages.... No man or woman can create a true home who is not willing in the outset to embrace life heroically, to encounter abor and sacrifice. Only to such, can this divinest power be given to create on earth that which is the nearest image of heaven (Improvement Era, May 1945, Pp. 239- 314). Questions for Discussion 1. How does friction between parents affect children?. What are the advantages to children of belonging to large families? 3. How can the Priesthood be honored by the mother? 4. Why is a sense of security so important to a child? 5- Discuss the value of having children eam money. IS] 575 6. Discuss the value of family councils wherein each member may express an opinion. 7- Show that co-operation among members of a family and sacrifice for each other is essential. References Deseret News, Church Section, March 30, 1946, Editorial, "Marriage Is Sacred." Discourses of Brigham Young (compiled by John A. Widtsoe), chapter on "The Family," pp. 306-328. Grant, Augusta Winters: "My Husband," The Relief Society Magazine, November 1936, page 671. McKay, Pres. David O.: "Marriage and Divorce," Improvement Era, May 1945, page 238. Smith, President Joseph F.: Gospel Doctrine, on "Marriage, the Home and Family," pp. 354-374. Talmage, James E.: The Vitality of Mormonism, "Not Good for Man to Be Alone," pp. 220-223. Widtsoe, John A.: "Training for Woman's Work," The Relief Society Magazine, June 1940, page 379. LATE TRAVELER Iris Schow She used to talk a little of the Nile, Or Uruguay, or even Samarkand; But travel frightened her. She quickly banned Pike's Peak as all too far, and without guile Declared she should be sewing for awhile, And after that the fall fruit must be canned. She reveled in the tasks that gnarled each hand Through years that grooved deep wrinkles in her smile. Yet now this stay-at-home, who seldom went Beyond the shadows of her poplar trees, Or talked with any but her kin, has changed, Becoming one faith renders confident To undertake, with certainty and ease, That farthest journey friends have not arranged, THE OLD HOOKED RUG G. Gwen Kelsey In years to come you will see it there— This old hooked rug by the rocking, chair, And all you will see is a faded rug, Making the room look comfy and snug; While I see mother bending there Over the rug, with her silver hair, Hooking a pattern of her joys and care, Trying to ease the heartache and pain, Looking back ovet the years again, Unfolding the pictures and hooking them in. Making the flowers 4S neat as a pin. A soft old blue brings back memories deat; Her work-worn hands brush aside a tear; Then with a deep, soul-rending sigh, She bows her head and begins to Cry; For the old coat sleeve she 18 hooking on Was once wom by her soldier son; So she tucks in the ends and makes them fast, Colors and rags, S© the rug will last. You would never know, on seeing it there, This old hooked rug by the rocking chair, OF the years of living that are hooked. Between The blues and browns, with the soft moss green. The colors will fade with years, My Son, But the pattern within will never Tun. GOLDEN NUGGETS OF THOUGHT A charming little book that everyone likes. Pocket size—carry it with you. Choice quotations from the writings of the wise. He title describes the book. HIGHWAY HELPS Lights Along Life's Great Highway Short discussions (150 of them) on the gospel and other subjects. Each offers 5 to 15 minutes of inspirational reading and food for more and better thinking. $2.00, AND ALL LATTER-DAY SAINT BOOKS ae Wouldn't you like to have handy in your home, a price list of all of the books of the Church? It is free to you for the asking. Just vite your name and address very plainly and mail to: EZRA L. MARLER BOOKS BY MAIL P. O. Box 267, Salt Lake City, Utah LADIES 3 PART OCTAVO MUSIC Specially Suitable for Relief Society EYE HATH NOT SEEN (Gaul) _..12 HEAR MY PRAYER (James) —_...12 HOLD THOU MY HAND (Briggs).15 HOLY REDEEMER (Marchetti) -... 15 JUST FOR TODAY (Ambrose).... 12 O SAVIOUR OF THE WORLD (Goss-Ray) = As WIEGENLIED (Cradle Song— Mozart). 15 In Quantity Orders Less 10%. Plus Postage. Music for L. D. S. Churches, AND Music for Schools and Homes. Steinway and Lester pianos, band and orchestra instruments, talking machines, records and musicians' supplies. DAYNES MUSIC CO. We solicit your patronage 57 So. Main St. Salt Lake City 1 price of only... 44 East South Temple LATEST COMPLETELY REVISED EDITION BARTLETT'S FAMILIAR QUOTATIONS Edited by CHRISTOPHER MORLEY and LOUELLA D. EVERETT Priced regularly at $5 through many printings, this beautiful eleventh edition, with twice as many quotations as heretofore, is offered at the very special "Everyone who puts words on paper for others to read, everyone who speaks to an audience, even though it be an audience of three, needs 'Bartlett. ORDER YOUR COPY NOW! DESERET BOOK COMPANY "The Book Center of the Intermountain West" P. O. Box 958 $2349 $99 Salt Lake City 10 When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine U. S. POSTAGE 2¢ Paid SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH PERMIT No. 690 WJEC CONSERVE FOOD NOW! Can all the fruit your sugar allowance will permit. Your own well-stocked shelves are the best assurance of food during this time of world-wide shortage. Spare stamps 9 and 10, War Ration Book Four, are each good for 5 pounds of canning sugar, through October 31. Stamp No. 49 is good for 5 pounds, for table use, through August 31. "U and I' Sugar is home produced... Unsurpassed in quality... Perfect for every use. UTAH-IDAHO SUGAR RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE SEPTEMBER 1946. THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Monthly publication of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints RELIEF SOCIETY GENERAL BOARD - President First Counselor Second Counselor Secretary-Treasurer Belle S. Spafford Marianne C. Sharp Gertrude R. Garff Margaret C. Pickering Achsa E. Paxman Edith S. Elliott Leone G. Layton Leone O. Jacobs Mary G. Judd Priscilla L. Evans Blanche B. Stoddard Velma N. Simonsen Luella N. Adams Florence J. Madsen Evon W. Peterson Isabel B. Callister Anna B. Hart Ann P. Nibley RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Editor - - - - - - - - - - Marianne C. Sharp Editorial Secretary - - - - - - - - Vesta P. Crawford General Manager - - - - - - - - - Belle S. Spafford Vol. 33 SEPTEMBER 1946 No. 9 Conten ts SPECIAL FEATURES A Message to Teachers Dr. M. Lynn Bennion 579 Fort Lerhi Mission, idgho=enaeer in Review Dorothy Clapp Robinson 583 Pioneer Stories and Incidents: The Indians and the Mail Route President Amy Brown Lyman 594 FICTION There Is Still Life Frances C. Yost 590 A Shelter for Their Hearts: Maryhale Woolsey 601 Faith Is a Heritage—Chapter 6 seve Christie Lund Coles 607 GENERAL FEATURES Sixty Years Ago 996 Woman's Sphere........ Ramona W. Cannon 597 Editorial: Records of Service....... -Marianne C. Sharp 598 Notes to the Field: Ward Relief Society Conferences 4.. Seo) Bound Volumes creer none nono ee 600 United States Savings Bonds —.000222222222-2-22----e--- President George Albert Smith 600 Annual Report—1945 General Secretary-Treasurer Margaret C. Pickering 611 Notes From the Field 0........... CecceceseeeeeeeeeesGeneral Secretary-Treasurer Margaret C. Pickering 625 LESSON DEPARTMENT Theology: The Relief Society Developed Elder H. Wayne Driggs 631 Visiting Teachers' Messages: Faith..................-. President Amy Brown Lyman 635 Work Meeting—Sewing: Fitting and "Adjusting Patterns and Cutting Work Meeting Committee 636 Literature: America's First War for Freedom... Elder Howard R. Driggs 637 Optional Lessons in Lieu of Literature: Faith... Elder T. Edgar Lyon 643 POETRY Autumn Hills—Frontispiece -...........--.---:0e--- |Grace Zenor Pratt 577 Three Precious Things................ I sesesesssssestsseeeeeeeeMabel Jones Gabbott 589 UE ee a Clarence Edwin Flynn 593 Fall Days Are Closi sing A BTGrace M. Candland 595 Fulfillment.. RO creme eee:.. Verda P. Bollschweiler 600 His Silences. A sees ee Sa ee |Blanche Kendall McKey 610 Song...... A FrMargery S. Stewart 630 Autumn Has Spoken cc. We Heart's Reply................- sessanceneesoeoes ope ee. _. Anna Dorothy J. Roberts 647 bree Redd 647 PUBLISHED MONTHLY BY THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY Editorial and Business Offices: 28 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City 1, Utah, Phone 3-2741. Ex. 243. Subscription Price: $1.00 a year; foreign, $1.00 a year; payable in advance. Single copy, 10c. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. Renew promptiy so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving both old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the act of March 8, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned uniess return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts. MAGAZINE CIRCULATION, 77,500 THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE AUTUMN HILLS Grace Zenor Pratt It seems but yesterday I walked across the hills And it was summer... But today a soft and purple mist Has crept across their blueness, while The blazing touch of winter's breath Has changed to bright and shining glory The path of summer's death. All this bright splendor I would somehow keep, Like some sweet, cherished dream to hold In pictured memory. There is one hidden secret I should like to know— How autumn hills can make one strangely yearn, Why autumn's magic touches heartstrings so! There are no words to paint these flaming shades, No haunting music to express my need— That autumn's transient beauty may live on Unchanged by time or winter's icy need. I only know when her last, lovely, scarlet leaf Shall flutter by on some unfaltering breath, It is a symbol of some mighty plan, And beauty lives beyond the summer's death. The Cover: "Mouth of the Middle Fork, Salmon River, Idaho." Photograph Courtesy Idaho State Chamber of Commerce VOL. 33, NO. 9 SEPTEMBER 1946 teat Photograph Courtesy Idaho State Chamber of Commerce a Oe WILLIAMS CREEK ROAD, NEAR SALMON CITY, IDAHO A Message to Teachers Dr. M. Lynn Bennion Superintendent, Salt Lake City Schools ANY suggestions have been made for improving the quality of teaching in the auxiliary organizations of the Church. A great deal of emphasis has been placed, in recent years, on better teaching methods, but better methods, alone, will not result in effective teaching. Good teachers often succeed with old-fashioned methods, and poor teachers fail to get results with the best methods. Something in addition to better methods is needed. Teachers must be imaginative and have a clear understanding of the purpose underlying their work. What they need, above all, is a sense of challenge, of moral compulsion, as a group who have a mission to perform. 'Teachers who feel this challenge create a zest for learning among their students and thus become superior teachers. Teachers must find their motivation, essentially, from the light within. Each of us, however, can do much to fan the flame. We can make the teachers feel that their work is important—that their ideas count. We can give them the confidence and freedom necessary to do their best work. We can do much to give the teachers the prestige they deserve. Relief Society teachers have already won great prestige in and out of the Church because of what they have stood for. They have played a great role in opening up the minds of women to religion and in helping them aspire to a richer life. 'Their teachings have included theology, mental and social hygiene, and literature. Their lessons have been built around the real life activities of individuals and groups. They have included the major issues troubling our communities. Let us now ask ourselves the question: How may we improve Relief Society teaching—how make it meet more adequately the needs and demands of our atomic age? The rapid transitions that are taking place in society demand great leadership. Much is at stake. Civilization, as we know it, is actually in the balance. The terrifying task of winning the peace is not only the task of winning back the ground lost through war, but of reaching a new moral summit adequate for the demands of a new day. It will take a spiritual earnestness and conviction manyfold more intense than all our efforts to win the war. It might be likened to the attempt of Pandora to gather into her casket again, the released human ills, for out of the welter of misunderstandings and hates, of wrongs and crime, the world must be brought to a state of mutual faith and confidence. Such a consummation cannot be reached by the improvement of machinery, but only by spiritual power. It is impossible to overstress the fact that the dilemma of man is Page 579 spiritual, nor that this has been long discernible to minds of insight. It was, perhaps, inevitable that the intellectual and social revolt against the norms of decency, the adolescent interest in sex that has moved the literary world, the abrogation of the standards of honesty, the denial of moral values, the contempt for religion which has come to characterize much of our thinking, should reach a grand climax in recurring world wars. These are the fatal genii which the modern Pandora must reconfine in the casket. ONE of the most shocking aspects of recent wars was the revision or abrogation of solemn _ treaties without notice, and at the whim or advantage of one of the contracting parties. Thus was destroyed the faith which must exist between civilized nations. But the roots of such international unfaith lie deep. Such distrust is based on a deep skepticism. Such faith is essentially faith in righteousness, justice, and truth, as the fundamental realities of human relations. A presumptuous age in its attempt to kill superstition has overshot the mark and has killed faith instead. Superstition still lingers, superstition of the grossest kind. We have only substituted for faith in moral values, faith in the Ouija board, the crystal ball, and the throw of dice. Faith in these does not demand morals, and we have apparently been more anxious to dispose of the sense of moral and spiritual responsibility than we have been to get rid of superstition. We have been very naive to expect the age of science, of organization, and of vitamins, to satisfy souls RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER 1946 which can fulfill themselves supremely only through _ spiritual achievement. As teachers, let us assume that physical survival and the building of a decent world depend directly upon effective teaching, and then determine what can be done about it. Some may say that teaching is too slow, but there is nothing faster or surer than the right kind of instruction. But what is the right kind? It. Is the kind that a good teacher promotes. But what is a good teacher? Is she not one who is developing her students as well as her subject? Is not a good teacher one who promotes goodness? The highest possible achievement of skills, information, and vocation") competency are not all it takes to live successfully. People must have a set of moral and spiritual values firmly rooted in the gospel of Christ, if life is to find its legitimate fulfillment. "Ye shall know the truth and the truth will make you free" (John 8:32). As soon as we have a generation that does not believe in freedom and does net have the moral strength required of freemen, freedom will be lost. Nazi Germany offers a splendid example of what happens when the wrong sort of ideals are instilled into people. How different world events might have been, had their attitudes and ideals been focused on Christianity, implemented by an understanding of what constitutes democratic living. But, has the Church been unconcerned about teaching religious values and in promoting the good life? Indeed it has not. A great and effective work has been done by teach- A MESSAGE TO TEACHERS ers in the Church. Why, then, is there any real issue about improvement of teaching? The answer is quite clear. In a world which has suddenly learned how to blow itself to bits, goodness must be more directly sought through more effective teaching. Those who say that goodness cannot be taught are talking dangerous nonsense. They interpret teaching as a narrow, lessonmemorizing process. In this sense, of course, goodness cannot be taught. But mere memorizing is not teaching. Teaching not only can, but must find its most important duty in changing the minds of people from an egotistic, selfish, materialistic philosophy to an altruistic and idealistic philosophy, that is, it must change the nature of the desire or motive life of people. We must permeate all our teaching with the concept of value. Religious and ethical standards must be brought to bear as bases of judgment upon every possible occasion. Is it right? Is it true? Is it honorable? Is it fair? Is it just? Is it in harmony with the will of God? These questions should become almost automatic. Wisely directed instruction should leave upon the desire-life of the individual the tendency always to gain greater satisfaction from those values termed spiritual; the values which grow with their exercise and sharing. That means that we must do many things more effectively than we have in the past. That is not easy. Why is it not easy? Because we adults are victims of patterns fixed upon us by our own limited experiences, we are inflexible when we should be on 581 a creative search for right solutions to problems. To paraphrase Lincoln, we must disenthrall ourselves from rigid patterns and think and act anew. Our case is new—our day is piled high with new difficulty. Our greatest sin is lethargy—the refusal to become what we might become—to allow the good of today to crystallize—to become a hard mold, cartied into tomorrow after it has lost its pertinency. We are complacent in the presence of evil that does not directly affect us. We stop thinking, and our opinions as a result become fixed. We deny the very meaning of life, which is growth by cultivation. RELIGIOUS values cannot be developed independently of lational thought, the instrument of intelligence. An elderly gentleman, in attempting to account for the sad deterioration that had taken place in his little home town said: "Dem dat's good ain't able. Dem dat's able ain't good." Goodness, without ability, is a vehicle headed in the right direction, but it has no motive power, and it lacks a skilled driver. Ability, without goodness, is a ruthless mechanism that may jump the track and crush everything in its path. The good life is one "motivated by love and good will and guided by knowledge." The teacher must promote clear thinking. The most important technique of living is the recognition of problems and their solution by thinking which is based on truth. The detection of falsehood, distortion, bias, propaganda, misleading of every kind, and the recognition of 582 truth, whatever its source, is basic to all constructive social functioning. Do our students have the opportunity to think—to put thinking into action, by learning to choose, to evaluate, to discuss, to debate, and to weigh all factors in a situation? Relatively too much attention is being given to mere memorizing, to the neglect of judgment and the power of independent thinking. Teachers need a better background of understanding about people and their individual needs. They need a greater determination to labor at the task with the full backing and support of all of us. This will mean that many teachers will need to extend and broaden their education. Wide reading on current issues of the day is needed, reading critically in an effort to discem truth from error. This does not mean that teachers should have no concern for the past. But it does mean that the great ideas of the past must come alive and become dynamic in the present. History is meaningless unless it has a current application. It is hard, for example, to find an application for these words of Thomas Jefferson: I have sworn upon the altar of the living God eternal hostility against every form of tyranny over the mind of man. Error is dangerless so long as truth is free to combat it. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER 1946 Let us restore to social intercourse that harmony and affection without which liberty and even life itself are but dreary things. Or, the words of Horace Mann, as he took office as secretary of the Massachusetts State Board of Education: The path of usefulness is opened before me—God grant me annihilation of selfishness, a mind of wisdom, a heart of benevolence. Or, his words to a graduating class at Antioch, which words were inscribed on his tomb: Be ashamed to die until you have won some victory for humanity. Have our classes been so dulled and drugged by second-hand text book words that they are out of touch with reality? Is our instruction life-giving? "Man does not live by bread alone." He is a spiritual, as well as a physical being, a creature with a personality and a soul stamped with the imperishable image of God. Good teaching, the kind demanded today—is justified by the degree to which it helps people to develop their spiritual capacities, their qualities of human kindness, their devotion to ideals of truth and justice and beauty in all their relationships. Let us therefore follow after the things that make for peace, and things wherewith one may edify another (Romans 14:19). Fort Lemhi Mission, Idaho CHAPTER IN REVIEW Dorothy Clapp Robinson IDDEN among the rocks and brush in a high valley in East Central Idaho, are some old, old apple trees around which centers one of the most interesting chapters in Latter-day Saint colonization. 'These trees were set out about ninety years ago by members of the Salmon River mission which was established in 1855 and abandoned in 1858. Although of short duration and seemingly a failure, this attempt at colonization left more lasting marks on the face of Idaho than a few antiquated apple trees, or the remnant of a mud wall which still stands. A county, a valley, a mountain range, a mountain pass, a national forest, an Indian reservation, and a tribe of Indians all bear the name given to their fort by those early Latter-day Saint missionaries who reached back into pre-American history for that name. John E. Reese says, "Being twenty-two days in making the journey which was similar in many respects to the exploits of King Limhi, who led a company from the City of Lehi-Nephi to Zarahemla [of Book of Mormon fame] was their journey thither, that they named their fortfication for him." The word Limhi was quickly corrupted to Lemhi, and, as such, stands on the geography and in the history of the State of Idaho. The following is given to show how deeply the word is fixed in the thought patterns of the people. The author of this article asked an old pioneer of the State what the Indians called the Lemhi Valley before the Mormons went there. His answer came quickly, "They called it Lemhi. That is an Indian word." Viewed through the softening influence of years, colonization seems a blend of romance and adventure. There may have been adventure in the Lemhi settlement, but there could have been very little romance, for the first settlers were all men. It was in the spring of 1855, only eight years after the first entry of the saints into Salt Lake Valley, that a picked group of twenty-seven men were called to go into the wilds of what is now Idaho to establish a mission among the Lamanites. Contrary to common belief, however, they were not sent specifically to the Salmon River basin. An advance party selected this site. Of these men, Thomas S. Smith, of Farmington, was appointed mission president, and David Moore, mission clerk and historian. The missionaries met near Farmington, and, in May 1855, set their faces north. Each man was required to provide his own transportation and to carry his own equipment and sufficient supplies to last a year. In the caravan there were eleven wagons and forty-six head of oxen, besides the riding horses and some cows. The company traveled north, goPage 583 ing through Malad Valley, over the divide and, eventually, down into Portneuf Canyon and on to the Snake River by means of an old ferry boat near what is now Ferry Butte. They followed along the western banks of the Snake as close as lava, brush, and rocks would permit, until they reached Eagle Rock, now Idaho Falls. There they turned north and west, passed Market Lake, on Birch Creek, and, after crossing the divide, rode at last into the valley that was their rendezvous. Their camp was about three miles from the present town of Tendoy. These colonists may or may not have known that this valley was the birthplace of the immortal Sacajawea and the home of her people, Photograph Courtesy Idaho State Chamber of Commerce the Shoshones. About fifty years before the Latter-day Saints arrived, she had led the Lewis and Clark expedition into the valley on the way to the Pacific Coast, and there she had been reunited with her family. In all likelihood, the colonists knew that the valley was a primitive thoroughfare used by roving bands of Indians, among which were the Bannocks and the Nez Perce. It seems plausible that this fact may have influenced the selection of the site, as the purpose of the missionaries was to convert the Lamanite and to teach him the ways of civilization. Snagg, who was chief of the Shoshones, was either a cousin or a nephew of Sacajawea, and became a NEZ PERCE INDIANS ON THE LAPWAI RESERVATION, NORTHERN IDAHO 584 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER 1946 cance Photograph Courtesy Idaho State Chamber of Commerce SHOUP, IDAHO, ON THE SALMON RIVER RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER 1946 a Photograph Courtesy Tam State Historical Society CABINS BUILT BY THE LATTER-DAY SAINTS AT FORT LEMHI IN 1855 great friend of the missionaries. He often stayed with them at the stockade. If the interest of the relatives of the Bird Woman in religion and civilization had not been so fleeting, this story might have had a different ending. However, until late in the year 1857, the Indians and missionaries were on the best of terms. S was always the case with Latter-day Saint colonizers, the men of this company made haste to start farming. They arrived in the valley June 14, and, by the 22d, had planted ten acres of com, peas, and potatoes. Some of the ditches they dug are still in use. Claims have been made that they harvested the first wheat raised in Idaho, but that seems to be a fallacy as the Reverend Spalding, in his mission at the mouth of the Clearwater, had raised wheat prior to this date. The grasshoppers, or crickets, were very numerous that summer of 1855 and, by August, it became evident that there would be little, if any, seed for the next spring. Accordingly, a party of men left for Salt Lake Valley to bring back seed and additional supplies. When these men returned to Fort Lemhi in November of that year, three of them brought their wives back with them, and one, David Moore, brought his daughter Louisa. Thus romance came to this outpost of civilization. Louisa later became the wife of Lewis W. Shurtliff, and old timers tell of her wonderful wedding. In the meantime, there had been a killing frost September 5, which further endangered their supplies. President Smith sent another party to "the settlements" for food and seed. These men returned in early summer, 1856, bringing with them twenty-two more settlers, all men. With all the work of farming and THE LEMHI MISSION, IDAHO stock raising, the men did not forget the purpose for which they had come. A mission school was established, with classes three times a week. Sundays were spent in special services of prayer and song in which the Indians joined freely. Every missionary tried to learn the Shoshone language. Some three or four tried to learn the language by marrying into the tribe. Curiously, this was frowned upon by the parents of the girls, for it is reported they were "not willing.' 'These marriages must not have been successful for, when the settlers returned to Salt Lake Valley, only one Indian wife elected to go along. In May 1857, Brigham Young, with several apostles and a goodly company of friends and relatives of the settlers, visited the colony. Some of the visiting brethren were highly enthusiastic about the country, but it is recorded that Brigham Young Peon — Tdaho State Historic 587 expressed his doubts about the wisdom of their having gone so far north. The fort was situated 375 miles northward from Salt Lake City and, with the prevailing modes of transportation, that was a long way. And the settlers were entirely surrounded by Indians. They were advised to build another enclosure, this time for their stock. Until this visit, the farming had been done on a community basis, but afterward, some surveying was done and individual farms laid out. Another fort was built. John E. Reese says it was built of rocks and mud that hardened into "some kind of cement." As a protection from the Indians, the walls were not worth much, for the red men could crouch on the hillside and shoot down into the enclosure. The cabins were much better, for their thick log walls were impervious to bullets and arrows. LEMHI VALLEY, IDAHO Note the log fence and the tall "stock" gate. After returning to Salt Lake, President Young sent north another company of men, which swelled the population of the fort to about one hundred. Several women went with the last company. By the fall of 1857, the colony was in a thriving condition. The crops had been good. Several hundred Indians had been baptized, and pleasant contacts had been made with hunting and exploring parties passing through the valley. There seemed every reason to believe the colonists were there to stay. Chief Snagg and his band of Shoshones often ate and slept at the fort. But, while outwardly peace lay like a blanket over the project, there were various mutterings and stirrings that bulged the blanket here and there, all of which resulted in an open attack against the settlement the morning of February 25, 1858, by a band of Shoshones and Bannocks. The colonists had been warned that an attack was imminent, but as they had little faith in their informer, no preparations for defense had been made. Two men, George McBride and James Miller, were killed; several men were wounded; and most of the cattle were driven away. After three days of intermittent Photograph Courten 1 Idaho _—— hee of Commerce RANGE CATTLE IN IDAHO 588 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER 1946 THE LEMHI MISSION, IDAHO 589 Photograph Courtesy 'Idaho State Historical Society THREE PIONEERS OF LEMHI VALLEY Left to right: John E. Reese; R. B. Herndon; Judge Shurtliff fighting, the missionaries were called to a meeting to determine their course. As a result, two men, B. H. Watts and E. J. Bernard, were sent for help. All this happened at a time when the threat of Johnston's Army lay like a blight against the security of the saints. President Young decided to recall all Mormons living beyond the bounds of Utah Territory. He sent north a company of 150 men to the rescue of the Salmon mission. The men reached the fort, March 21, 1858. The settlers had already made preparations for their return to Utah. It is said that Chief Snagg and his men wept tears when they saw the company leave. The company reached Brigham City April 11, and there disbanded. Thus came to an end the Fort Lemhi attempt to colonize Idaho, but many of the colonists later came back and helped develop other communities. Note: This material has been gleaned from documents and journals in the Idaho State Historical Society, Defenbach's History of Idaho, Beall's History of Southeastern Idaho, from J. A. Harrington, and from articles published in Idaho Daily Statesman. THREE PRECIOUS THINGS Mabel Jones Gabbott Thank God for these three precious things: A needful task to do, a child's Sweet love, an honest heart that sings. There Is Still Life Frances C. Yost gay wind, in sportive play, frisked the high tree tops, and whirled September's leaves of red and gold, to welcome in an Indian summer. Dessie Bartlett, widowed seven years, sat on the step of her back porch. Her three children, like mushrooms, clustered around her. All eyes were on a finished painting Dessie held in her outstretched arms.. "Mother, it's perfect! I never really noticed the beautiful view from our back yard until you painted this picture," LaPrele, age twelve, stated equably. "It's tops, Mom. Why, old Baldy Mountain looks bully! I wonder how he likes his picture taken? He seems so solemn and wise," chuckled Foster, who was more man than boy for all his fourteen years. Then he added seriously, "It'll sure take the blue ribbon at the fair!" "It's awful pretty," spoke up Joyce, the youngest of the three. "Please take it to the fair, Mommie." "It would be the prize winner if I were the judge," LaPrele said with emphasis. "A fair judge studies all entries," laughed Dessie. "But if you children think it's good, we'll just enter it and find out." Dessie beamed on her brood. "It does have good balance, and the perspective is perfect, if I may say so. It is colorful; the little stream and the quaint bridge add a touch, somehow. I might as well put my initials in the corner with ink and call it finished." Page 590 'sobs. "Tll get the ink right now. Today's the last day to take exhibits to the fair." Joyce raced into the house. "Tl write it in the house!" Dessie called. Joyce, who was already out of earshot, didn't hear her mother. Before anyone knew what was happening, she was back with the inkwell and pen. At the door she ran into Foster. "Look out, Sis! Grab that ink!" Foster shouted. It was too late. The glass container bounced out of Joyce's tiny hand, over Dessie's shoulder, and broke. A pool of jet black ink splashed over the newly finished oil painting. "The picture! It's ruined! Mother!" wailed LaPrele. "Gosh, Mom, can't we do something quick? Won't ink wipe off?" Foster gasped. "T'm afraid not, Son. You see I] just finished touching it up with fresh oils. It would be just a smudge," Dessie stated calmly, then despair closed her throat. Joyce, realizing the great catastrophe she had caused, sobbed brokenheartedly. Dessie, who had laid the ruined painting on the lawn at her feet, put an arm around Joyce to quiet her "I didn't have a chance of winning anyway, Joyce dear. Why, Mrs. Swartz studied art in the East and she is entering a beautiful scene of Niagara. Then VonVleet, the high school art teacher, has a lovely appleblossom sketch. = Mother Oh, THERE IS STILL LIFE doesn't care, really. We'll go to the fair just the same, and you kiddies will probably all get ribbons. How's that?" Dessie wiped the tears from Joyce's eyes. Inwardly, Dessie was _heartsick. She had worked at odd moments all summer to perfect her painting. She felt certain it might have been a prize winner. All during the day she found herself fighting a hard battle to conceal her deep disappointment. For the children must never know how much entering the art exhibit had meant to her. She busied herself, supervising the children as they prepared their entries for the fair. LaPrele pressed her 4-H dress and made certain there were no cat's whiskers sticking out on the French seams. Foster brushed the fur on the two rabbits he was entering. Joyce picked and trimmed the largest, firmest head of lettuce, and washed and bunched carrots from her 4-H garden. When the children left in the afternoon to make their entries, Dessie could hold back her disappointment no longer. She flung herself into the deep, soft chair that had been Roger's. She had thought all day if she could only be alone for a good cry, her pent-up feelings would wash away. Now, somehow, tears would not come. Roger's dear old chair, vacant so many years, seemed to put its arms around her. Dessie's mind, designed for far vision, chose for the moment to dwell on an autumn day seven years past..... Eee & HE air was tangy as cider. Frozen roses hung heavy on their stems. The sun was brassy; even the chirping of the sparrows had an 591 autumnal sound. Dessie stood by the door, dustpan in one hand, broom in the other. Roger had come in unexpectedly. He stood in the doorway unnoticed, until he placed a loving arm about her waist and released her hold on the cleaning utensils. "You've worked long enough today. How about doing something lasting?" "For instance?" Dessie queried, half ashamed to be caught by the one she loved with her hair resembling damp untwined string, rather than the bubblelike cloud of curls she managed to acquire when Roger came home at the usual hour. "Why don't you spend the afternoon painting me a pretty picture of something?" Roger said succinctly. "For instance?" Dessie again questioned, as her mind raced on to the many household tasks she had planned to do during the day. "Flowers!" Roger answered. "My darling, haven't you noticed? The frost is on the pumpkin. There isn't a flower to be had. And, besides, if I wash the kitchen curtains, as I had planned, you will be able to see more scenery than I can capture with a brush," laughed Dessie, modestly. "I want you to paint today, Des-. Sie, I mean it. If I find something suitable, will you paint it today? Please, today!" Roger's voice was pleading. "Tll make you a wager. If you can find anything around here fit to paint, P'll do my best. In the meantime, please, may I gather up this debris before the wind whips it all through the house again?" Roger had gone out of the house, and came back in a moment with two large dried onions. He moved a square table into the light from the bay window, placed a clean white doily upon the table, a black bowl on the doily, and there he placed the two dried onions, as if they had just rolled themselves up near the bowl. "Dessie, here's the easel all set up, and your paintbox and everything. Just leave your work, I'll... I'll just sit here and watch you." So Dessie dabbed in her oil paints all afternoon, hardly looking up from her easel. It turned out to be their last afternoon spent together, for Roger had taken a sudden heart attack in the night, which had proved fatal. Quiet, home-loving Roger, who had borne the pain from his heart silently through the years, never allowing even ill health to upset their last hours. Xe eS Dessie recalled the picture of the onions, which, she felt certain, was the poorest type of art. It lacked lovely, bright colors. 'There she had sat, fiddling with a brush, while Roger's very hours were numbered. Dessie had buried the hateful onion picture deep in a trunk in the attic, and life had become as dust and ashes without Roger. Always, she had put on a false front of contentment while her very heart was breaking within her. Now she heard the children's voices. Laying away her feelings on a secret shelf in her mind, she welcomed her children cheerfully. "Everything ready for the fair tomorrow?" "Everything, Mom!" the three chorused. THE day broke clear and bright, with a pungent scent of autumn in the air. Dessie Bartlett and her three children set out early for the fairgrounds. "I suppose you'll want to see your exhibits first?" Dessie questioned, gay asa lark. "Gosh, Mom, an' miss the horse races? We can see em after they're judged," spoke up Foster, quickly. They took in the races, rode the Ferris wheel, and the whirligigs, bought hamburgers and salted peanuts at the concessions, and were munching large twirls of cctton candy when they finally visited the exhibits, late in the afternoon. When Dessie saw the art display she dropped her cotton candy. Her knees seemed fluid at the back. For there, between Mrs. Swartz's Niagara painting and VonVleet's appleblossom scene, was her own simple, still-life portrayal of the two dried onions! Surely there was a mistake, for a blue ribbon rippled bravely from the picture frame. Dessie bent over to read the writing on a little white card. This still-life painting is awarded first place for excellent contour, perspective, color combination, and its aesthetic quality. Dessie's heart fluttered in her throat. She looked deeply into the faces of her children. In amazement she asked, "How did this get here?" Joyce, the youngest, chose to be spokesman. "LaPrele knew it was in the trunk in the attic. We brought the picture over and entered it for you, Mommie. We knew you'd win if you just had a picture!" Dessie felt her heart sink back into her breast. She looked at the 592 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER 1946 THERE Is STILL Lifg 593 If for th st time Of her Own creative art, she felt that €Ie was Contrast of ¢ lors, even Gr Was there beside her. Dessie Ough th Were pn IVid red » ANEW, as she &4zed at her Picture, blues, and greens! Tound boy] at as long as she could look upon POssesseq artist's third dimenhere, his Presence Warming the sion! Even the skin on the onions Cockles of her hea Was natura]! "There js still lifer" he mur. S her eyes drank jp the worth mured, From daily Journeyings, at opens easily, Till UNTesponsive hinges y, 'ait drearily, In silence, So steadily the Tver flows On to the Silent sea, 4S Well as Square table, somehow this vely painting Roger Would be Pioneer Stories and Incidents THE INDIANS AND THE MAIL ROUTE President Amy Brown Lyman (This is the third in a series of true pioneer incidents to be published by The Relief Society Magazine in honor of the 1947 Utah Centennial celebration.—Ed.] N interesting incident, with a dramatic sequence, which happened away back in 1862 in the life of her pioneer husband, was often related by Sister Elizabeth Caine Crismon, who, for ten years, was a member of the General Board of Relief Society. Charles Crismon, Jr., her husband, crossed the plains with his parents in 1847, when he was but three years old. He grew up with the new country, going through the varied trials and experiences of the western pathfinder. As a young man, he was ambitious, energetic, and a willing worker, undertaking and carrying through successfully many difficult and dangerous tasks. In his early teens he drove a herd of sheep across the plains from the Missouri River to Salt Lake City. With his father and brother, George, he was active in the development of the resources of both Utah and the San Bernardino district of California. They, later, fostered many pioneer projects and became successful businessmen and industrialists. Charles Crismon, Jr., was also brave, public-spirited, _ patriotic, and ever ready to serve his country in time of need. This was demonstrated when, at the age of eighteen, he volunteered his services to the Government to help protect the western mail route from the Indians, who seemed bent on destroyPage 594 ing not only the stations, but also those who operated them. In the skirmishes connected therewith, a number of men, women, and children lost their lives. It was in the spring of 1862 that President Lincoln called for volunteers from Utah to carry on this hazardous undertaking, and young Crismon readily enlisted for the service, leaving Salt Lake on short notice for headquarters at Chimney Rock, Wyoming. He was a member of the company of Lot Smith, that brave and courageous leader and frontiersman, who, thirty years later, lost his life at the hands of Navajo Indians in Arizona, while helping to defend a Latter-day Saint colony there. Many years after, late in his life, Brother Crismon, who was in frail health, made frequent visits to California. One summer day during one of these visits, while he and Sister Crismon were resting in the sunshine in Golden Gate Park, they made the acquaintance of a very interesting and congenial woman who sat in a chair near them and engaged them in conversation, 'They soon found that they had much in common, all being western pioneers. Brother Crismon, in a reminiscent mood, related some of his early-day experiences, and among them he recalled the following story connected with the mail route expedition. PIONEER STORIES AND INCIDENTS He told that on one occasion, when members of Lot Smith's company were approaching a certain mail station which they feared was in danger, they discovered that the station had already been attacked by the Indians and was all ablaze. As they neared the spot, the Indians fled and the soldiers noticed that a little child was being carried away by them. The soldiers hurried on, and, although they were not successful in rescuing this unfortunate little one, they put forth desperate efforts to do so. They discovered that the agent and his wife, the parents of the child, and her half-grown 595 brother had not only been scalped by the Indians, but their lives had been taken. Throughout the narration of this incident by Brother Crismon, the new-found friend listened with great intensity to every detail of the story, and, at the end, showed unmistakable signs of emotion, as she exclaimed, "And I was that very child!" Then she added, "I was held by the Indians for several years, until some of my relatives who had searched diligently for me, obtained clues, and then succeeded in rescuing me." FALL DAYS ARE CLOSING IN Grace M. Candland The misty canyon's blue is on the land, The stubble fields lie sere and brittle dry; The crickets chant their nightly symphony; Wild geese in wedge formation chart the sky The air is cool and hints of coming frost, A two-point moon glides slowly to the west, A family of birds we used to know Have gone and left their tattered nest. Last night the mountain oak showed signs of age, Today the sumac leaves are lined with red, The junipers now hold an ample store Of gay vermilion berries overhead. There is a touch of sadness in the fall, But let not brooding ever be a part Of all this coloring and quiet charm Now come to soothe, relax, and warm the heart. Sixty Years Ago Excerpts from the Woman's Exponent, September 1, and September 1 5, 1886 "For THE RicuTs OF THE WOMEN OF ZION AND THE RIGHTS OF THE WoMeEN oF ALL NATIONS" UTAH: Undoubtedly, today there is no other place, be it state, territory or country, under the broad canopy of heaven, which is so universally observed, as the subject of this sketch. Utah is talked about, written of and lectured upon, until, really, there remain but few, if any, new ideas concerning her, to be formed or expressed. So rigorously is this subject handled, both by friends and enemies, especially the latter, in all classes of society, that we scarcely find time to measure one point, or sound the force of one argument in relation to it, before something else is thrust upon us for consideration.— Hyacinth HANNAH T. KING: Our readers will very likely have noticed that for some time past there have been no contributions from the pen of our gifted sister, Hannah T. King, and possibly they have wondered why she has not written. For years she has been a regular contributor, scarcely a number of the paper having been issued without one or more of her articles appearing, but her health has failed, and she is no longer able to write, much as she would like to do so.—Editorial: RELIEF SOCIETY NOTES: Missionary and Indian donations are included in charitable disbursements. Wheat is computed by bushels. Presidents and secretaries are requested to attach full name and address to reports. LETTER OF APPRECIATION: Hints on household management, home government, the proper training of our human twigs, cookery, hygienic notes and pleasant Paragraphs are all very acceptable in a woman's companion. May the talent of Zion's daughters be fostered and improved by cultivation and demonstrated in the pages of The Woman's Exponent. May it indeed be a true representative of the faith, culture, intelligence and heroism of the noblest... And most self-sacrificing women in the world. —A Friend TEMPE, ARIZONA: Our ward and society are alive to the interest of the Latterday work, and we are trying to live up to the requirements thereof.—J. D. Wilson HOUSEHOLD HINTS: To clean a bottle, put into it some kernels of corn, and a tablespoonful of ashes; fill it half full of water, and after a vigorous and thorough rinsing, the bottle will be found as good as new. NOTES ABOUT WOMEN: Jenny Lind's daughter, who is spoken of as possessing a marvelous voice, is coming to this country some time next winter. The biography of Queen Victoria, which Barnett Smith has had in hand for some time, will be published this month in one volume of 400 pages. It will contain several portraits. NOTES AND NEWS: Oliver Wendell Holmes, who has received no end of courtesy and good-will abroad, has come home safe and sound, having kept his seventyseventh birthday on shipboard. Page 596 Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon HEN American women, after gaining suffrage, assumed their place and responsibility in local and national affairs, Charlotte Perkins Gilman, an outstanding feminist leader, wrote these lines: Not for herself, though sweet the thought of freedom, Not for herself, though dear the new-won power, But for the child who needs a_ noble mother, For the whole people needing one another, Comes woman to her hour. RS. AMY BROWN LYMAN, former General President of the Relief Society, is the new president of the Utah chapter, National Order of Women Legislators. While serving in the Utah House of Representatives in 1923, Mrs. Lyman promoted the measure which empowered the regents of the University of Utah, and the board of trustees of the Utah Agricultural College to assist faculty members in these institutions to procure old-age annuities. She also sponsored the Sheppard-Towner maternity and child-welfare bill. Mrs. Lyman was official delegate to fourteen national conventions of the Council of Women. She served for thirty-five years on the Relief Society General Board. T° help mothers who occasionally need tenders for their young children, and likewise to help the tenders, the Parent-Teacher Association of Richland, Washington, organized girls into a self-governing body, the Junior Cadets. Making tules to safeguard both the mothers' and their own interests, they blacklist undesirable homes, and discipline girls who raid refrigerators or into drawers. When mothers complained that company distracted gitls' attention from their duties, the Cadets ruled out the company. ISS BLAIR NILES has written a beautiful book—an addition to the fascinating "Rivers of America" series. In The James, from Iron Gate to the Sea, she brings to life Pocahontas, Washington, Poe, Pattick Henry, and Jefferson. MBs. DORIS BARNES, a widow, has been elected mayor of Wrangell, Alaska. She is believed to be the first woman mayor in Alaska. RA PATE STEWART, wife of Colonel Robert W. Stewart, United States Army Air Corps, is the author of Pages From the Book of Eve, recently published by the Naylor Company, San Antonio, Texas. This fictional autobiography presents a rich background of westerm scenes and introduces a courageous and charming family. Mrs. Stewart served as a missionary in the Eastern States and is the mother of five children. Page 597 C—D EDITORIAL cm9O VOL. 33 SEPTEMBER 1946 NO. 9 Records of Service S each new Relief Society season approaches, there appears before every woman member of the Church a new honzon for her individual development and a new opportunity for her growth through unselfish service. In almost every community in the Church today, however, there are numbers of women who are not: active members of Relief Society and whose time is not fully occupied with other Church duties. While Relief Society needs the support of all Church women, these inactive women need Relief Society even more. They need the satisfaction that comes to one who helps the less fortunate; they need the knowledge which comes from gospel study and discussion; they sorely need the close companionship of Latter-day Saint women who are constantly growing through a continual giving of self. Nor should women wait until their children ate grown before affiliating with the Society. If each girl in the Church would become active in Relief Society as a bride, her married life would be enriched, and she would carry into her everyday living an understanding and a spirit which would aid her in establishing and maintaining a home true to Latter-day Saint principles. This mortal existence is a time of probation, a time of testing, and, once the shades of this life are drawn, there is no returning to add to one's accomplishments. There Page 598 will be time, however, for regrets over wasted hours. 'There will be time for heartaches over misdeeds or omitted good deeds. There will be time to weigh the blessings which might have come from service in Relief Society against social functions or other activities. She who preferred to stand alone here, asking no help and offering none, may stand 'alone there, a benefactor to no one. Her earthly record will be closed. Some records will look thin and tattered, soiled and smudged. Others' records will reveal a bright, brave page here and there, fading into an indolent scrawl. There will be some records, however, well-bound and filled with pages of indelible beauty—glowing with the small, daily acts of helpfulness and kindness, radiating a spirit of love written in unselfish and tireless devotion to the Church. Add to these pages of service for others, the greatest chapter of all for a woman—an immortal accounting of true motherhood—and that woman will have made an everlasting record of nghteousness, one in which she may rejoice in the times to come. For, from service given beyond and above one's own affairs, will come an added, rich reward. May each woman in the Church determine, this coming season, to write a record of imperishable beauty, and encourage her sisters around her to do the same.. M. C. S. CONTINUING the plan first and to provide Opportunity for the adopted in 1942 for auxiliaries to stake board member to evaluate hold special meetings and annual the condition of the ward Society; conferences on fast Sunday even. And to advise, instruct, and stimulate ings, the Relief Society has again the ward officers. In order to ac. Been assigned the evening of fast complish the Purposes of the meetday in November. Fast day in Noing, some Stakes Prepare a question. Vember this year will occur Novemnaire or Present and discuss data T 3, and the General Board recom. From the last annual report, At least mends that this evening be used for one hour should be allowed for this the anual ward Relief Society conmeeting and, in some instances, a ference, longer Period may be Tequired. The Ward Relief Society Presidents time for holding 'the officers' meet. May therefore altange with their re. Ing is optional with wards, but spective bishops for holding meet. Should be at a time convenient for ings on the evening of fast day in the visiting stake board member and stake board who should be pres- _ ber. This officers' meeting, held in ent at both the officers' meeting Connection with the ward confer. And the general session. Ence, may constitute the monthly 2 at each conference Consist of Ward Preparation meeting for the two meetings: month in which the conference js 4. An officers' meeting to be atheld. Tended by the ward executive In order to ensure a large attend. Officers, special workers and ance at the general session of the Visiting stake board member ing be made in Relief Society and b. A general session for all Relief other ward gatherings. Reli¢¢ SoSociety members and for the ciety members, Particularly, should general membership of the be urged to attend. Ward. A suggestive Program for use at The purposes of the officers' meetward conferences wil] be sent to ing are to discuss special problems ward and stake Presidents in bulletin confronting the ward Relief Society; form. Page 599 Bound Volumes THOSE desiring to have their 1945 issues of The Relief Society Magazine bound, may do so through the office of the General Board, 28 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah. The cost of cloth binding, including index, is $1.75. I at United States Savings Bonds y= the war period many people have manifested their patriotism and wisdom by purchasing Government Bonds. In many cases the Bonds are still being held and are earning interest for the holder. This investment has been a blessing to many people and what they have saved will be useful to them in the future. Some individuals, however, are disposing of their holdings and spending their money for unnecessary things, and if hard times come, they may find themselves unable to meet their obligations.... If those who have purchased Government Bonds will hold them and gain the benefit that results from possessing them, they will be wiser than if they dispose of their holdings and squander their substance. Surely we have nothing more secure in the way of an investment than Government Bonds. —Excerpts from a statement made by President George Albert Smith for the United States Savings Bonds Division—Utah —>- FULFILLMENT Verda P. Bollschweiler If you count wealth in worldly goods, I'm poor, I must confess, But a hearth with loved ones gathered round Is a treasure I possess. My time is spent in humble tasks For those I love and who love me, And children's laughter in my home Is like a symphony. To teach some little ones to walk The path that Jesus trod, Can thrill my soul with ecstasy— A paean to my God. To try to ease a neighbor's pain, And wipe her children's tears away; To do my bit in time of need; These are the things that fill my day. To keep a home where those I love Can turn with joy when day is spent. Oh, I am rich beyond compare— A woman who is well content. 600 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER 1946 A Shelter for Their Hearts Maryhale Woolsey ADGE had known it would M come, known that the storm must break. It could only be a matter of time—time, and a final inciting incident. And there seemed nothing she could do about it. Vaguely she blamed herself... And, yet, she knew that if anyone was to blame, it was Coralee's mother. For, after all, Coralee was a younger edition of Carol Santley, gaily thoughtless and selfish and irresponsible. Carol always had played the pretty martyr to her babyish goldenhaired daughter, bemoaning the insufficiency of the annuity her late husband had provided her—which, with any capable management at all, would have been ample for the comfort of both. Carol was accustomed to deposit her child, now and again, with relatives or friends, for times varying from an afternoon to a couple of weeks or more, so that she could go away fora "rest." Still, Coralee adored her mother, and was evidently bent on following in her footsteps. Coralee's and Link's had been one of those swift, unconsidered, wartime romances. Link had been barely nineteen, Coralee not yet seventeen, when they had decided to be married before Link went into the service. And, if Madge and Ken Walters had had misgivings at their son's choice of a wife, they had not had the heart, at such a time, to voice them. Carol, suddenly relieved of re sponsibility for Coralee, following her marriage to Link, promptly found a romance for herself and went off gaily honeymooning to Mexico. There, in a small seaside town, she and her new husband found Carol's annuity sufficient for two, and there they remained. And Coralee liked living as a guest at the home of Link's parents. And so it had begun. At first, Madge hadn't minded at all. Coralee was lovable and cuddlesome, and her presence relieved the deadly quiet of the house after Link had gone away. 'Then, after awhile, there was the baby, Tad. He was round and pink and adorable, and Coralee worshipped him— and turned over to Madge the less attractive duties pertaining to his care. Coralee could never achieve the preparation of Tad's formula without burning her fingers, or breaking a bottle, or spilling something; so next day she'd beg prettily, "Would you mind, Mother Walters—fixing his food this time? I'm so nervous about it, I just know Pll have another accident if I try!" Finally, Madge, on her own initiative, took over making the formula, finding it more convenient and time-saving to do so than to be interrupted in her own work at inopportune times. With the baby's laundry, Coralee would dawdle over it and get hopelessly befuddled among wet heaps of shirts and nighties and didies, and waste precious soap. She might then be called to the telephone by one of her girl friends, to further delay the program. And Madge, in desperation Page 60] would finish the washing—or find her kitchen impossible to work in when she was ready to start dinner preparations. Those were the things that had first begun to irk Ken. "Can't the gitl do anything?" he growled. "Leave her to it—I'm not having you imposed upon any more!" A couple of times he spoke his mind to Coralee, and she wept. Then Ken would be embarrassed and ashamed, and, in two days, things would be back where they had been before. Tad was almost three when Link, at last, came home to stay. He was miraculously whole and_ sound, miraculously like the boy who'd gone away—except for that older, grave look, deep in his eyes. And Coralee didn't notice that, it seemed. To Coralee, Link was exactly as he had been four years ago, carefree, eager to dance and play, go riding in the car, to consume hot dogs and ice cream at wayside stands. HOSE first weeks, Madge and Ken were more than willing to relieve the young couple of parental cares. 'They were eager for Link to have a period of rest, of fun and freedom. But later, after Link— always happiest when tinkering with the "innards" of automobiles—got a mechanic's job in a big garage— then his mother and father expected that the young people would think about a home for themselves. And when the idea didn't seem to occur to them, Ken took Link aside one evening and rather pointedly made the suggestion. Madge guessed what had happened when she discovered certain new wrinkles of puzzlement between Link's eyebrows. Then they began, really, to learn about the housing shortage, which had formerly been a phrase they read of in the newspapers and heard in other people's conversations. It hadn't meant a great deal to them. Now, suddenly, it was a very real, a personal, and individual menace. The friction in the Walters household—as in many another home—grew and grew, as week after week went by, and Link and Coralee didn't find a home. Link wanted a house, but Coralee was all for an apartment, a hotel apartment preferably, with conveniences and "services"... None such was available, especially to a couple with a small boy. The few vacancies they did find, Coralee rejected. One was "a smelly place," another "too drab for words," still another "too impossible," in one way or another. Time passed and Link had been home seven months. There was-a grimness around Ken's mouth that Link seemed to watch furtively and turn away from. Coralee still played around, going to matinees with girl friends, or alone; spending hours shopping for "wacky" hats, nylons, toys for Tad, shirts for Link. And, when Link would happen to get home before Coralee did and find Madge tending Tad—bringing in his newly laundered, small clothes, or ironing them—then Link would go around looking worried and angty and sullen. Not infrequently, he and Coralee would have a quarrel; but Coralee did not mend her ways. The last straw came when Tad ruined Ken's choicest peonies. The plants were large and beautiful, and Ken had made plans to enter the 602 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER 1946 A SHELTER FOR THEIR HEARTS lee had Played with Tad out in the back yard, letting him dig "in the nice, soft dirt." Madge heard them come in, heard Coralee chatter gay baby talk in the kitchen while she gave Tad his noon meal of canned junior foods, Then, all at once, Coralee had come to "T''ve put Tad down for his nap, Mother. I'm going to run down to Jean's for a few minutes to see her new suit. I'll not be gone an hour, but I thought I'd better let you now," Just like that, Madge thought, too listless even to feel resentful. She Sot up, wrapped herself in a warm tobe and went to the kitchen to get a bowl of hot soup, sighing at the kitchen disarray as she went weakly back to bed. A little later, she fel] asleep, and, when she awakened, it was to hear Ken driving past the windows. The house was ominously quiet. Remembering, Madge hurried to look for Tad. Eis crib was empty. She heard Link's coupe stop in front of the house, and a shout from Ken, behind. Madge hastened to the kitchen door, and from there she Tad was standing by the peony bed, his face upturned to Ken's in bewilderment and fright. The hacked buds and stems of the peonies lay scattered on the gtound at his feet: his chubby hands stil] grasped his toy hoe. Ken's face was purple with Tage. After that one angry outburst, he seemed to have turned 603 speechless, the drive, and Coralee came runnin behind him. Thought, all the players perfectly cued for a climactic scene. Spoke, Daddy, it's Just a shame. | ty Tad—" Link said, "Where have you been, Coralee?" "At Jean's, darling. I didn't mean to be so long—" "You mean, you left Tad with Mom, when she Was so sick?" "I only meant to be away a few minutes—" Ken snorted, "fF €w minutes! You've no more idea of time than— than that kid has of gardening! Nor of responsibility of any kind." He glanced suddenly towards the house, saw Madge in 'the doorway, and choked into silence. "T''m sorry," Madge said. "I went to sleep. Tad must have climbed out of his bed..." "You were entitled to sleep," Ken. Answered her, his lips gtim. Coming you feeling?" "Better, dear," Madge said, dreading the next few minutes, for Link had picked up Tad and was follow. Ing Ken into the house, by way of the kitchen—which was, frankly, a mess! Coralee came after, just as Ken, looking aroun » Said to Madge, "You go back to bed. We'll take cate of this," She went, hearing Link's incredulous, "But, honey! Couldn't you even wash up the breakfast things?" And Coralee's plaintive, "Darling, I meant too, Really I did. But I had to tend Tad all morning—" "Tad's Gramma,' Ken - said, "tends him and gets her work done, too!" "I know. She's—wonderfully efficient, isn't she?' Coralee spoke with wistful admiration. "I never hope to be half as smart about— things." Sarcastically, Ken said, "I guess you never will be, if you never begin to try. But you'd better start to begin, nght now. Tad's Gramma is through being your baby tender, see? When a couple start getting a family, they should think of—of a place for it." "Dad," Link began, "we've been looking for a place—" And Coralee interrupted with, "Just as soon as we can find something suitable—" "'Something suitable!" Ken snapped. "Has it ever occurred to you that my wife and I might like 'something suitable,' also, and that we have priority here?" Madge was sliding in between the cool sheets of her bed. The electric silence seemed to reach through the house, to follow her into this room; the air seemed to prickle with it. After what seemed a long time, she heard Link say, "I see your point, Dad. You're dead right, too. We should take what we can get... And we will. Soon. Coralee, find a couple of aprons. Right now, we'll start on these dishes." Link took the next day off from his work, and he and Coralee went house hunting, taking Tad along. Before noon, they were back. Coralee's face was unhappy; her eyes were red, and tears had streaked her cheeks with mascara. "We found a house, Mom," Link said. "Folks just moving out. It's out at the edge of town, on Knowlton Drive. Not much, but—" "Oh, it's awful!" Coralee began to cry again. "Mother Walters, it's a horrible place that nobody nice would have! I—I'll be ashamed to be seen in it—to have our friends see us there!" "It'll be a roof over our heads," Link said, "and it will give us a chance to be adults, instead of irresponsible kids." "T never, never,' Coralee stated, "could take care of it all by myself. And Link says we can't afford a housekeeper even if we could find one." "Darling," Link told her sarcastically, "I wasn't bad at K. P. At times. If it's two babies I've got, instead of a wife and one baby, I guess I can make out somehow." "You're horrid to me!" Coralee cried, and ran away to sob on her pillow. INK confided to his mother details regarding the "find." "It is shabby and run-down," he confessed. "Rather rough tenants it seems to have had; I don't blame old Harlow for not wanting to do any fixing up. "Take it or leave it,' he said." "Anson Harlow," Madge nodded. "Yes, he'd be like that, knowing some desperate family would take it as it is." "Broken windows," Link went on, "broken old stove in the kitchen, and goodness knows what the furnace is like. It doesn't look good to me! But we'll only need to use it for a few months. We'll have to buy furniture, of course." He called, "Coralee! We might 604 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER 1946 A SHELTER FOR THEIR HEARTS as well do a little shopping this afternoon, want to?" Coralee came back, somewhat cheered. "Link, let's buy a glasstopped table, and one of those corner whatnots and some lovely figurines to put in it!" "T hate to be a wet blanket, honey," Link said. "But we'd better start with the necessities; we haven't much cash, you know, and there's a limit to our credit." "But Jean and Ed have—" "Jean," Link said, impatiently, "worked all the time Ed was gone, Coralee, and she banked every cent of her allotment, and more out of her own salary. That makes it simpler for them, now." "But, Link!" | Coralee looked hurt. "I couldn't work, could I? Having Tad, and—" She turned appealingly to Madge. "Tad's worth three bank accounts," Madge said hastily. "Link isn't complaining; he's simply stating facts. You and Link will have to start, as he says, with—essentials." Ken, upon learning what had developed, looked thoughtful. After dinner he went away somewhere by himself, and when, shortly after his return, a telephone call came for Link, Madge had an idea Ken had been up to something. The caller was Anson Harlow. He'd decided, he said, that if Link would sign a year's lease for the small house, he'd repair the broken windows, put in a new range, and in the fall would see that the furnace was in good order. Link agreed. Coralee wailed, "Oh, Link! A year! In that hovel? I-—I just couldn't bear it!" Link gave her a queer, long look —almost, Madge thought, the look 605 he might have given a stranger whose behavior had displeased him. When he spoke, his tone was icy. "Sorry, Coralee. Tad and I think we'll make out all nght. We suppose we'll have a lot of things to learn, of course. You can learn along with us, if you care to." For once Coralee seemed unable to turn on either tears or charm. She just sat. Madge's heart ached for them all. What would happen to them, she wondered, thinking of the numerous war-wed couples rushing through divorces; of the little children, hurt and bewildered. No... No! She cried in her heart. Not—Link... Not Tad... Not even Coralee... For Coralee did love Link! But— what would happen! They moved to the small house a week later. They had bought a good rug, dull, soft blue, for their living-room; a sofa and chairs, deepcushioned and comfortable, in brocade of rose and gold-beige. Coralee's colors, and they were lovely, but they turned sickly in the shabby setting of the room, where darkened, streaked wallpaper in a heavy floral pattern, and nondescript brown woodwork were depressingly evident. Even the tall, old, mirrored mantel had been painted that dull deep brown; it towered grimly over everything like an evil spirit. In the kitchen, long ago, the walls and woodwork had been painted a "serviceable" dark gray, the ceiling a lighter gray. Coralee's blithely selected chrome and red leatherette breakfast set wouldn't have been so bad there, except that the linoleum was checkered tan and green, with lines of orange. Madge 'groaned when she saw it, but Ken said, "It's their indigestion, I guess. They'll have to find the cure for it—or endure it." Madge had wanted to help the youngsters get settled, but was too weak after her illness, and Ken forbade her doing any extra work at all. In fact, he found a business trip to the Coast a sudden and urgent necessity, and insisted that Madge should go along with him. MACE and Ken were away for a month. On their second day back home, they had an early dinner and drove out "to see how the kids were making out." Link met them at the door. "Well, if it isn't the gadabouts!" he greeted them... Adding in a slightly embarrassed manner, "We'd sort of hoped you'd not show up for a few more days. But come in— we're almost ready for you, anyway!" They stepped inside—and began to see his meaning. Coralee, in a pair of paint-besmeared old slacks, and with her head tied in a gay bandanna, greeted them from atop a stepladder at the farthest window. "What have you done?" Madge exclaimed with incredulous pleasure as she looked around. "Is this the same place, or isn't it?" Ken said. "Did you two—uh— inherit a mint—or just rob one, or— what?" For gone was the garish wallpaper, gone the depressing brown woodwork. The walls were restful spaces of clear pale gray-blue that seemed to recede and enlarge the room. Over creamy white window frames hung the gay new drapes, whose colors repeated those of the furniture and brightened the whole effect; everything seemed charmingly right. Link and Coralee were laughing almost boisterously in their pride. "A fortune is what we came into, all right!" Link agreed. "A—smart wife... Being more valuable than rubies—or whatever the saying is! I know what it means, anyway!" he finished. The look in his eyes was something at which to rejoice. "IT never dreamed I could do— things like I've been doing," Coralee said happily. "And Link—he's not half bad, himself." With significant, relieved glances at each other, Madge and Ken followed through the doorway into a vision of gleaming new white enamel-finished cabinets in the kitchen. '"Where's Tad?" Ken asked. "Out in back. We've fenced him in," Link said. "Come, see our young man at work!" Tad had heard their voices. He stood expectantly just inside his small play yard, and when they appeared, he began to jump up and down. Amid laughter, Ken remarked, "The kid's got the right idea." Disregarding his good clothes, he went over and knelt in the sand beside the boy. Watching, Madge put her arm around Coralee's shoulders. The gitl drew closer in quick response. "You know, Mother," she confided, "this is—a kind of—a—victory, isn't it? What we've done here, I mean... Link and I. We're so— happy, doing things together!" Madge thought to herself, that is marriage, Coralee. But she only said, "It's the together-ness that does it, dear. That's the important thing." The rest she left unsaid; they would discover it themselves, one of these days.... 606 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER 1946 - Faith Is a Heritage Christie Lund Coles CHAPTER 6 Synopsis: Enid Drage, widow of Tom Drage, killed in a factory accident, feels a little strange in the small town where she is going to teach. She takes her small daughter to school the first day and feels a certain resentment on the part of the teacher. She is sure, later, that the teacher is not being fair with her child. She writes her a letter, then decides to pray about the matter. Her eyes to see the beautiful September sunlight streaming through the small east window. She yawned and stretched herself, feeling that it was good to be alive. The heartache of the night before was like dew that had disappeared in warmth and light. She slipped out of bed, picked up the envelope, and tore it into small pieces, letting them fall into the wastepaper basket. Three days later she was sitting at her desk, just as she had been that first day, when she saw Sharon coming through the door. Only now her face was alight, her eyes shining. "Mommie," she called gaily, coming into the room, running toward her mother, "Mommie!" "What is it, darling?" Enid asked her, her own heart filling with joy at the sight of her. Sharon was neat her now and she cried, "What do you think? Miss Hare came up to me today and put her arms around me and said, "You lovely little girl' " Enid choked. Now, there was no need to hold back the tears. Tears T HE next moming, Enid opened of joy, even tears of grief, were a purification. When she had let them fall profusely, she dried her eyes again and managed to say, "You see, I told you. She only needed to know you." She didn't add _ that prayer had helped. But someday she would tell her daughter. X ke * * Everything seemed right, and the days passed swiftly. Winter came and passed. Soon more years had gone. Incredible as it seemed, Sharon was first in junior high... And then in high school. Miss Nobbitt's health was failing, and the doctor told her she would have to be careful of her heart. Enid tried to watch over her as much as possible, but she was a hard patient to wait on. One cold, winter night, Enid stood in her landlady's kitchen, making her some chicken soup. Miss Nobbitt insisted upon coming out every few minutes to see how it was going. Finally, Enid said, "Now, listen here, young woman. You go in and rest. I can cook almost as well as you can. And if I can't... Well, all the more reason why I need the ractice." "Pshaw," grunted the other woman, "you just want to make me out an ailing invalid and I won't have ie" "I should say you won't. That's what I'm trying to avoid. Please do be careful... Just for a little while. Then you'll be perky as ever." Page 607 608 "Oh, you with your pleading, pretty eyes. I still don't see how you've managed to escape the men these many years." Enid brushed a curl from her forehead, said laughingly, "Well, for your information, Mr. Fletcher has asked me several times to go out with him." "Mr. Fletcher, the banker! Hmm. And what excuse did you give for not going?" "Oh, I'm good on excuses. I always have so much to do!" "Taking care of me, I suppose." The younger woman turned toward her quickly, "Oh, no. Of course not. That is one of the pleasantest things I do. I just don't care to go..." Miss Nobbitt was thoughtful as she said, "You could do worse. He'd give you a good life... That beautiful house on the corner..." Enid put the chicken onto the waiting platter, as she answered, "I like this house." "The corner you have of it isn't much, I'd say. If you'd swallow your pride and move in here, we'd both be better." "No. We wouldn't; I'd feel I was taking advantage of you. It's better this way." As the other woman_ turned, wearily, to go into her own room, she made one parting remark, "It might make a difference in Sharon's life...." Enid paused a moment, then shrugged her shoulders. Sharon understood. She wouldn't want to take something that wasn't hers any more than her mother would. She was a level-headed child, and very wise for fifteen. Enid was just putting the dishes RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER 1946 on the table (since "Manda insisted they eat there), when Sharon came in, her long bob falling about her shoulders, her cheeks pink and glowing from the cold. "Hi, Mom," she greeted her mother, "how's Aunt *Manda?" She looked into the other room as she spoke, and Miss Nobbitt answered, "I'm just fine. Or will be when you come here and kiss me." The girl laughed and proceeded to kiss the older woman, affectionately. Then, she said, "I've got to hurry. I'm invited to a party and it's going to be a ritzy affair. Up at the Ar nold's." Her mother's eyes widened, "You mean Sally Arnold's place?" "T mean no other." "Well, you are rather getting into high society. How did that happen?" "Oh, Sally's always been nice to me, but today some of the other girls who weren't invited were talking about her, saying she was a snob and stuff. They asked if I was invited and I said 'No,' but I still thought she was a nice girl and had nothing against her. I guess it got back to her because out of a clear sky she asked me to come. "Well, hurry then, child, hurry," Miss Nobbitt told her, "and you'd better wear that new blue taffeta dress. It brings out your eyes." EN ID hurriedly put things on the table. She didn't say anything, but she was well aware of the unusual excitement in her daughter's face, the happiness that hadn't been there before. Enid supposed she had always known that was the set Sharon had wanted to be in, should have been in, but Enid hadn't fully FAITH IS A HERITAGE realized how much it had meant to Sharon.; Instead of sitting down with them to eat, Enid first went into her own small rooms to take Sharon's blue taffeta dress from the closet, to make sure it was pressed and in order. As she carried it back with her, she held it against her heart lovingly, She assisted Sharon with her hain pressing the soft, natural waves into the gleaming bob. She zipped the dress up the side so that it emphasized the slim, girlish waist. When Sharon was ready, she whirled around, laughing, letting the full, billowing skirt go out like a bright balloon. "Do I look pretty enough?" she asked, stopping suddenly, her eyes serious. "Do I look as nice as the other girls will?" "If you weren't prettier than any of them in the first place," Miss Nobbitt said dryly, "I might say I don't know, but since you are, and since I'm sure none of them has a prettier dress, I guess there is only one answer." "Oh, you spoil her out of all reason," Enid protested, smilingly. And Miss Nobbit nodded, "Yes, I know. As if you didn't." "It hasn't hurt her so far," the gitl's mother answered, looking at her daughter, "And it just hadn't better, either." The two women talked seriously about it when the girl had left, wondering how much love and affection could be showered upon a child without turning her head. "It's frost, not sun, that kills a flower," Miss Nobbit insisted, "and it's not love, but lack of it, that spoils a child." 609 "I don't know," Enid said hesitantly, "I don't want her to be selfish... Or arrogant." "Oh, don't even give it a thought. Sharon was born wise and sweet. She'll always be that." "I do so hope she will." Enid's words were fervent, almost like a prayer as she began getting ready to go to her own apartment. She was awake when Sharon came home about eleven. She heard the laughter of young voices outside, heard the gay "goodnights" and she felt happy deep within her. She knew there were mothers whose own happiness seemed to come before their children's, but she was not one of them. If Sharon was happy, she was happy. She switched on the light as she heard the step at the door, sat up in bed, waiting to see the light in the girl's face, eager to hear the details of the party. The door opened and Sharon stepped in. Her face was bright, but only for a moment. She looked about her, and she seemed suddenly to droop. "What is it?" Enid asked her. "What is the matter? Didn't you have a good time? I heard you all laughing... I thought..." "Oh, yes, yes, of course I had a good time," Sharon said quickly, a note of irritation in her voice. "A wonderful time. It was the nicest home I've ever seen. They had beautiful dishes on the table, like those Miss Nobbit keeps in her china cupboard. They had a big fire in the fireplace..."" She stopped, and there were swift, gleaming tears in her eyes. "But what is it, darling?" Enid asked her again, climbing out of bed, going toward her. But Sharon did not come to her to explain whatever was bothering her. In fact, she seemed to draw into herself, to hold herself more aloof. She replied simply, "It's nothing. I—I just wonder sometimes—We can't ever have friends here. I can't ever entertain. And it won't ever be anv different..." Enid caught a note of bitterness in the young voice. She felt as if something had struck her heavily. There was nothing she could say. She could only change the subject, pretend that she hadn't heard. Yet, long after the young girl had undressed and crawled into bed, the words kept burning themselves over and over in Enid's brain: "And it won't ever be any different." She put her hand on the warm, soft flesh of the young girl's arm. Tears were in her own eyes now as she whispered to herself: "It just might be different. It might be." (To be continued) HIS SILENCES Blanche Kendall McKey He wears deep in his eyes an alien look— This changeling who has closed an open door, Yet smiles to touch his desk, his pen, his book, Nor does he fail to cherish as before. A note cries from his voice sometimes at night That halts me, leaves me stranded and alone. What lies unburned, guarded from my sight, To shut him from me by a shaded tone? I did not sleep with pain and halt with death, Nor rise from blows because a dream shone clear, Nor shout above the flames with pulsing breath Because my God had stilled the beat of fear. I may not touch the latchstring of that gate Which holds his silences inviolate! 610 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER 1946. 1 report for 1 complishments of Our more than one Society women ———_ 945 reveals the year's acundred thousand Relief Page §] | GEOGRAPHIC DISTRIBUTION OF RELIEF SOCIETY e e AND MEMBERS Paper ett December 31, 1965 ALASKA: 'a " *~" "> KEY '.: Is d @* - "= 7 y - ' Numerals in Squares Indicate: - '. { - Cl Number of Organizations in Stakes d. 267 Ont —_ SA Numerals in Circles Indicate Number of Organizations in Missions Numerals Outside of Squares and Circles indicate Relief Society Membership. HAWAII - oF Se: ' bet 4 SAMOA a »: ' a '," a= a 45, per" PALESTINE < Be se i, td wr - -%y aan 4) 4, Toa) @ ~aat oe @, " °. — ORAZIC - Po le y FONG AL é: 263 my a/ at SOuTH aFaica w=,? 2. \. ARCENTINA G); ". > S$ ot 7 Yer We a 'QD as (© ha = ad ~ 7EALANO a3; = > ns: é > AUSTRALIA |- \@ rats 29 os >: nay LS a 2 ely 1 & | Kats ~ fj @) 6s ©) Us 4 REE!-3 90, ———, P. 2.. —— oa Ba) me OM OH Gof OO" a» 2,230 ORGANITATIONS (<7 ae 101,691 MEMBERS ae: (4) 32 (a) § A\S shown here, the Relief Society is world-wide in scope. The year ' Sh 74 o-~sx a. Veals an interesting difference between stakes and missions, in am ® 247 (@)) UT 5 al — ow RU Ateerrire the stakes show an increase in number of organizations | with a - =.: © 261 a. ~~ (1). Ship, while the missions show a d in of A — cecrnriion | a _— —_— with an increase in membership. As } — <= - —— Within 152 stakes of the Church there were formed 22 new ES} 258 i @ ace = _: 4 2 tions making a total of 1310 ward and branch organizations. "These o) @ ' oa x ties showed greater F pation in most activities though their 159 - ship decreased. Ae -- The 38 missions of the Church with 920 local Relief ' (emg spt CMe 2 decremncsct eal Societies, their Relief Society. (J 6s - increased, ( - _The table on this page ae the social of local Relief Society or- =. - g and the in the stakes and in the - ' last available. A -~ ——_ _ - TABLE OF DISTRIBUTION Austria 1 4s H a? New Zealand $s sis $$ IS STAKES MISSIONS TOTALS Canada 2 we a "ae Sleetia va 5. 69 2 P. A 2 LOCATION Organii OrganiMomOrganiMem. Gzechoslovatia 2 51 2 8 Seo 46 Pat é 7a —————— ere ene Fe 2 iA 24} outh Africa 6 61 6 61 Other Counties eS Se sa 7 sears Germany 17 2230 1072.28 Switzerland i ot 6 oan Argentina 3 a a cA Great Britain: — ) oe '354 ahiti 15 247, 5247 ustralia 23 462, 10 010K Netherlands 13 267, lS.—s(87 "GRAND TOTAL 1310 05,963 920 15.88 2.290 101.691 J - missions. *The figures for Continental Europe were taken fromthe 193% annual report. The HE aim of the General Board is to enroll as a Relief Society member every eligible Latter-day Saint woman. It ls presumed that there is at least one woman eligible for Relief Society membership in each family of the Church. There are 61,660 Latter-day Saint families in the stakes not represented in Relief Society, while in the missions each family is represented by 1.5 members. During the year, the missions gained 138 members and the stakes lost 509 members, making a net membership decrease of 371 or.36%. The membership loss is attributed principally to changing the time of Relief Society meeting, in some localities, from Sunday (a wartime expedient) to a weekday, to losses through death, resignation, removal, and to post-war population shifts. In order to provide development for its members and to accomplish the objectives of the Relief Society program, a majority of the members are assigned to positions of responsibility. The variety of opportunity afforded for this development is indicated in the accompanying chart which shows the membership distribution in positions of leadership. MORE THAN 50 7#- OF TOTAL MEMBERS 29 74 Bey 47 4606 General Stake Mission Local Other Officers I 4 Class Visiting Officers Officers Officers Exec. Officers Leaders Teachers TOTAL Nx LEADERS HLP SS Hilfaez OTHER MEMBER S|\I|||I|| it AY, A ye ae: i, STAKES: Dy )) DD, >>> D>» DDD> y)))))IIID) » ¥ & S| laf 2 ——J 15,828 lN MISSIONS oS 10;540 IN MISSIONS L. D. S. Families R. S. Members ANNUAL REPORT ARD AND BRANCH. MM nga 5 lillondamce Q4,4 17 es OTAL mae HELD gett ALL or eFiNGS g, 354 e aes ERAGE aeanees| ANE DAN Re PoeTING? <1 en g 532 At No 59 209 sone. MEET c STAKES seeing — a! Ail uR ': LTERGS Ste hesAVERAGE ' ATTENDANCE AT REGULAR 3 46. MEETINGS 24.499 oRK; 4, MeeTiNGS wo... OR 9 9I4 OF MEMBERS ruspnss,928 the ik INS * Z: 033, IE We goah eS: | AVERAGE FO ERREORO? AP FEN DANCE - AT REGULAR _ MEETINGS = 22 uy /N 3 A MISSIONS OF MEMBERS eae and branch Relief Society meetings of all types held during 1945 numbered 84,477, an increase of 3,622 or 4.47% over the previous year. There was a marked increase of 2,332 in the number of regular weekly meetings and an increase of 388 in visiting teacher training report meetings held over the year 1944. However, there was a decrease of 83 in the number of ward preparation meetings, a decrease of 271 ward conferences and a decrease of 59 in officers' meetings held in connection with ward conferences so that the net increase in the total number of meetings of all types was 3,622. This included 1315 March Sunday night meetings not called for in the 1944 annual report. The average attendance at visiting teacher training report meetings decreased 1575 or 9.87%, even though the number of such meetings increased. While membership in the Society showed a slight. Decrease, this was offset by an increase in attendance at the regular meetings, indicating greater activity and interest on the part of the membership. The stakes showed an increase in average attendance at regular meetings of 1.09% over 1944, while the missions showed an even higher increase of 5.26%. 14,382 TOTAL AVERAGE ATTENDANCE AT. VISITING TEACHERS TRAINING REPORT MEETINGS ~- or AB. 7% OF VISITING TEACHERS - RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER 1946 Yiriliing Teaching \\\\ nc! Service was inaugurated 1 in 1843, just a year after the Society was organized. In 4 tyrone to carrying greetings of cheer and comfort and faith-sustaining messages from the Society to Latter-day Saint families, visiting teachers report confidentially to the local president any cases of need they may observe on their visits, and perform any compassionate service requested of them by the Relief Society president. Messages planned for discussion in the homes, begun in 1916, have ranged from subjects of practical interest to the homemaker to those of deep spiritual import. The "Beatitudes" and "Charity" were the subjects of messages carried by visiting teachers into. Latter-day Saint homes through the 1945 period. Out of more than one million visits made, 68.1% of the families called upon were found at home, a slightly better ratio than was found at home during the previous year's visits. Visits made where no one was found at home constituted 31.9% of the total visits. Of the families found at home messages were delivered to 63.6% of them. Each Latter-day Saint home should be visited once a month, or twelve times annually, in accordance with the Relief Society visiting teaching program. During 1945, there was an average of 7.2 visits made to each family, a slight increase over 1944 when an average of 7.1 visits was made to each family. An increase of 4602 communications made by mail or telephone in hieu of visits was reported. These communications will, no doubt, be reduced to a minimum, as personal visits to the homes are resumed 29, 784 TEACHERS 17,228 DISTRICTS / MADE BY now that travel facilities are available. VISITING ANNUAL REPORT 617 = more than one hundred years the Society has carried forward its work of education. The program has been adapted to the needs of women over a period of time extending from a rigorous pioneering era to one of great social and industrial advancement; and it has aided the women of each period to better adjust to conditions. It has contributed to the personal development of Relief Society members, has widened their sphere of influence, and qualified them to better serve their fellow men. TOTAL AVERAGE ATTENDANCE 29,697 OR ° 29.2% OF R. S. MEMBERS Urry Mt WAROS 4N BRANCHES EWING - LITERA HOMEMAKING TURE ARTS -#TC. SOCIAL THEOLOGY SCIENCE -— During the past year, 7,335 class leaders conducted courses. Interest in theology, literature, and social science courses increased as evidenced in the average attendance, but interest in work meetings did not keep pace, due, probably, to scarcity of sewing materials. 'There was a decrease of 279 women in average attendance at each work meeting. Note from the chart that the greatest interest is in the theology course which, for many years, has held first place in the hearts of members. During 1945, an average of 1064 more women attended the monthly theology meeting than in 1944. Social science held second place, showing the greatest increase in interest of any of the courses, and an average of 1971 more women at each meeting. Literature continued in third place with an average of 347 more women participating at each meeting. Through these courses, an average of 29,697 women each week, or 18.78% of Latter-day Saint families received the benefit of the educational program. In addition to regular courses of study, Relief Society members are encouraged to enroll in classes sponsored by the American Red Cross with a view to increasing their knowledge of subjects designed to promote health and well-being. The Red Cross, in 1945, certified 806 Relief Society members in these classes. 806 RS. WOMEN ALL a OTHER NUTRITION FIRST NURSING AID RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER 1946 Compassionala |\\\\ "Said Jesus, 'ye shall do the work which ye see me do.' These are the grand keywords for the Society to act upon." —Prophet Joseph Smith At the ninth meeting of the Relief Society, in 1842, the following important instruction was given the Society by the Prophet: "Said Jesus, "Ye shall do the work which ye see me do.' These are the grand keywords for the Society to act upon." And the Society has acted upon these words from that day to the present time. During the war years, there has been pronounced need for compassionate services. This type of service has enlisted the time and abilities of tens of thousands of our AA members, both at home and abroad. It gg should be remembered that many deeds of kindness, compassion, and helpfulness are performed for those in distress which cannot be measured in terms of reports. V4 TO THE thetic service among its members in support of the Prophet Joseph's admonition: "If you would have God have mercy on you—have mercy on one another... The best measure or principle to bring the poor to repentance is to administer to their wants. The Society is not only to telieve the poor, but to save souls." 12,946 DAYS CARE OF THE SICKIn 1945, there were 118,730 visits made to the sick and homebound, an increase of 2511 or 2.16%, but the number of days' care of the sick declined from 13,883 to 12,946 or 6.74%. A total of 594 bodies were prepared for burial during 1945. Of this number, 411 involved dressing only, while 183 bodies were completely prepared for burial by Relief Society. There were 74 fewer bodies dressed for burial during 1945, and 29 fewer completely prepared for burial. These figures represent a decrease of 103 or 14.77% in the number of bodies prepared for burial, both in complete preparation and dressing only, which indicates an increase in the services of morticians. The Relief Society assisted at 4408 funerals, an increase of 341 or 8.38% over 1944. The assistance of Relief Society members at funerals has become traditional and, apparently, is one of the most widely used and deeply appreciated services rendered by the organization. In addition, Relief Society members as individuals perform countless comforting and helpful acts for bereaved families. In these stressful times the Relief Society | 7 encourages an even greater spirit of sympaSICK & HOME BOUND Lwing— ill S WING for the needy was one of the original purposes for which Relief Society was organized, and it continues today of primary importance. This activity not only helps to provide for the needy, but it also offers a channel for practical training for both the experienced and inexperienced sewer. Church Welfare sewing is the most important part of the regular work-meeting program, followed by Relief Society quilting and sewing projects. In addition to practical sewing for the needy and for their own families, Relief Society women are preserving rare and beautiful handicraft skills through the work meeting. Because interest in aiding the needy is Churchwide, we are showing here a chart depicting war-period trends in the types of articles completed. Note that the call for men's, women's, and children's clothing is high, as was the case in 1944. The average number of women doing. Sewing service each month decreased 356 ay during 1945 from 1944. Less than oneaa third of the total membership of the So- 74-1,378 ciety participated in the sewing program. HOURS The goal of the Relief Society is to have faction found in sewing activities. Approximately one-fourth of the women sewing at Relief Society work meeting during 1945 sewed articles for the Amenican Red Cross. Although more hours of service were given during 1945 than in 1944, the articles completed were about two-thirds of the number reported in 1944. R. S. WOMEN | 598 000 HRS. FOR ALL OTHER 'es 116,882 - 244,636- 254,004 - 206,234 | Guinan Maag "ey Bs Sa Ba | OTHER — B60 4,609 BEDDING = *, CHILORE NG 25,323 18,224 j Leow en Caen et 14,724 ANNUAL REPORT. 619 every member experience the joy and satis- Church Ui SEAVICE i ing Relief Society provides service for the Church Welfare Plan by sewing, canning, and doing other types of food processing, by harvesting, and by giving employment service. The value of this contribution is incalculable. During 1945, Relief Society members gave 191,053 hours of service to Church Welfare projects in addition to sewing done in Relief Society meetings. The number of articles completed for O 3 \, the Church Welfare Plan totaled 42,527, a decrease of 40,855 from 1944. This \9 decrease is due, almost wholly, to the scarcity of materials which prohibited some Societies from filling their sewing budget assignments. (There is no segregated report of the amount of time spent at Relief Society meetings on Church Welfare sewing.) During the month of December 1945, the Society, in support of the Church Welfare Plan, participated in an extensive relief program for the aid of destitute Latter-day Saint families in the warstricken countries of Europe. This included the contribution by Relief Society of 5044 quilts and 1403 blankets; contribution of 47,173 bars of soap by Relief Society members, and participation in the collection, sorting, mending, and packing of great quantities of good used clothing. While the ward bishoprics supply the material needs of families under their care, the Relief Society is fully co-operating with them in analyzing, under their di- -¥. Rection, the situation of families in need. 39.8 o This past year, 9508 persons in 3231 fam- ~ oyayee ilies were given such service by the Re - ' lief Society. This service was in addition to the other types of service given by Relief Society to the Church Welfare Plan. 173,245 HRS BY ALL ARTICLES COMPLETED BY R. S. WOMEN — AT RS. MEETINGS Wo: 9 698 ss: 2 iit MISSIONS Me 15, 508 620 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER 1946 Fanancial Ryo CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CASH RECEIPTS AND DISBURSEMENTS FOR STAKES AND MISSIONS 19H Stakes Missions Total Cash Balance on Hand Jan. 1, 1946..... $ 402,174.99 $ 89,579.54 $ 491,754.53 Cash Receipts for Year.....................--. 389,846.58 84,440.03 474,286.61 Total Funds......................- $ 792,021.57 $ 174,019.57 $ 966,041.14 Cash Disbursements for Year............... 354,831.80 79,184.52 434,016.32 Cash Balance on Hand Dec. 31, 1945. $ 437,189.77 $ 94,835.05 $ 532,024.82 ASSETS Cash Balance on Hand................. $ 437,189.77 $ 94,835.05 $ 532,024.82 Wheat Trust Fund at P. B. O........ 416,831.90 3,128.80 419,960.78 Other Invested Funds, War Bonds 95,127.75 25,256.34 120,384.09 Real Estate and Buildings............. 137,906.13 3,377.00 141,283.13 Furniture and Fixtures................ 187,395.58 13,733.18 201,128.76 (titer Giese 52,475.46 16,673.64 69,149.10 Total Assets.02...00000000000002... $1,326,926.59 $ 157,004.09 $ 1,483,930.68 Total Liabilities.........0...... 374-63 1,665.12 2,039.75 Balance Net Assets.........2.2---..----+- $1,326,551.96 $ 155,338.97 $1,481,890.93 TI, G e G js / / e iy f Number of Per Cent Subscriptions Subscribing. General Officers and Board Members...... 17 100 Stake Officers and Board Members............ 1574 98 Mission Presidents and Officers................ 98 84.3 Ward and Branch Executive Officers...... 6429 Fe.3 Other Officers 2... Ceceeeeeeeees 4271 88.3 Class Leaders..............-----... E-eseceeeeeeeeneeeneeees 6409 87.4 Visiting Teachers -...0....2.2..0.02eceeeceeeeeeee _ All Other Members...0.0..........2-2es: eeceseeeeeees 99139 — TOTAL SUBSCRIPTIONS............ 74032 72.8 622 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER 1946 comparative amamclal s Statistical Dita 1945 1944 Change 1944 to 1945 Number Number Number Per or Amount | or Amount | or Amount | Cent STAKES AND MISSIONS, TOTAL 190 187 +3) +1.60 Stakes 152 149 +3] +2.01 ORGANIMissions 38 38 ZATIONS Local 2230 2212 +18} +.81 Wards in Stakes 1310 1288 +22} -+1.70 Branches in Missions 920 924 —.43 Membership, Total 101,691 102,062 —371; —.36 General Officers and Board Members 17 —8} —32.00 Stake Officers and Board Members 1,606 1,471 +135} +9.17 Mission Presidents and Other Officers 229 155 74) +-47.74 MEMBERS Ward and Branch Executive Officers 8,897 8,823 tH -+.83 Other Officers 4,838 4,710 +126 2.67 Class Leaders 7,335 7,251 84 1.16 Visiting Teachers 29,784 29,028 +756 2.60 All Other Members 48,987 50,599 —1612} —3.18 L. D L. D. S. Families, Total 158,063 160.965 —2902| —1.80 'MII In Stakes 147,523 146,697 1026} -+.69 FAMILIES In Missions 10540 14268 +3908] —26.12 1. MEETINGS HELD, TOTAL 87,533 83,508 +4,025| +-4.81 In Wards and Branches 84,477 80,855 +3622| +4.47 Regular Ward Meetings for Members 62,745 413 2,332 3.86 Merch Sunday Night Meeting 315 -_ + " i Teachers' Training Meetings 8,987 8,599 +388] +-4.51 Ward Preparation Meetings 8,432 8,515 —83) —.97 Ward Conferences. 1,633 1,904 —271| —14.23 Ward Conference Preliminary Meetings 1,365 1.424 Seg) 4014 In Stakes and Missions 3.031 2,630 +401) 415.24 Stake and Mission Dist. Board Meetings 1,689 1,550 139] -+8.96 Stake and Ward Officers (Union) Mtgs. 879 599 280} +46.74 MEETINGS Meetings in Lieu of Union Meetings 463 48] —18| —3.74 AND General Board Meetings Held 25 23 +2] +8.69 ATTENDANCE = 2. VISITS TO WARDS BY STAKE OFFICERS 8.329 7,256 +1073) +-14.78 3. AVERAGE ATTENDANCE AT REGULAR MEETINGS FOR MEMBERS 29,697 29,171 +526| -+1.80 In Stakes 24,499 24,233 266 1.09 In Missions 5,198 4,938 260 5.26 4. % OF MEMBERS REPRESENTED BY AVERAGE ATTENDANCE AT REGULAR MEETINGS 29.2 28.58 +.6 In Stakes 28.53 28.0 +.53 In Missions 32.84 3105 +1.34 l. VISITING TEACHING Number of Visiting Teacher Districts 17,228 16,947 281] +16.5 Families Visited, 1,140,373 1,144,519 146, —.36 ACTIVITIES Home 77,025 776,497 528| +.06 Not Home 363,348 368,022,674| —1.27 Per Cent Home 68.13 67.84 No. Communications in Lieu of Visits 24,598 19,996 +4,602| +23.00 ANNUAL REPORT 623 COMPARATIVE FINANCIAL AND STATISTICAL DATA (Continued) 1945 1944 Change 1944 to 1945 Number Number Number Per or Amount | or Amount | or Amount | Cent 2. EDUCATIONAL SERVICE Average Attendance at Relief Society oat 32,882 31,818 +1,064) +3.34 Work (Sewing) 27,920 28,199 —279; —.98 Literature 28,588 28,241 347 1.22 Social Science 30,399 28,428 +1,971 6.93 Women Completing Red Cross Courses BOG 1,820 —1,014| —55.71 Home Nursing 382 1,208 —826) —68.37 First Aid 105 265 —160} —60.37 Nutrition 177 209 —32| —15.31 All Other 142 138 +4) +2.89 3. SEWING SERVICES AT MEETINGS Av. No. Of Women Sewing Monthly 32,320 32.676 —356} —1.08 For Red Cross 7] —43; —.62 For All Other 24 408 24'80 —307| —1'23 Number of Hours Given 741,368 716,769 424,599) 43.43 For Red Cross 7 +4,040 2.89 For All Other Purposes 133 300 19a +20,559 3.56 Articles Completed 206.234 254,004 —A7.770| —18.80 For Relief Society +21,084 38.72 ACTIVITIES For Church Welfare Be Sey 0, +38 90 (Continued) For Red Cross 74,203 103,744 —29,541| —28.47 For All Other 13,979 12,437 +1,542] +12.39 aren 4 Articles — uilts 1,449 019 —2,570] —18.33 Other Bedding _ } 268 HI '866 —14,598| —66.76 Children's Clothing 30,160 39.726 —9,566| —24.07 Women's Clothing 22,531 18,508 4,023) +-21.73 Men's Clothing 13,708 12,195 1,513 12.40 Other (Miscellaneous) 121,118 147,690 —26,572| —17.99 4. COMPASSIONATE SERVICES Visits to Sick and Homebound 2,511 2.16 Number of Days' Care of the Sick gaa 116-213 +2836 are Bodies Prepared for Burial '504 '607 —103] —14.77 Complete Preparation 183 212 —29}) —13.67 Dressing Only; 411 485 —74| —15.25 No. Funerals at which R. 5. Assisted 4,408 4,067 +341] +8.38 5. CHURCH WELFARE SERVICES (In addition to 42,527 articles completed at Relief Society work meetings) Hrs. Church Welfare Projects __ 191,053 §24,915 —333,862| —63.60 By R. S. Women Receiving Aid 17,808 24,780 —6,972| —28.13 By All Other Relief Society Women 173,245 500,135 —326,890| —65.36 EMERGEN' No. Of Ward First Aid Kits 783 780 +3 +.38 No. Ward Home Nursing Supply Chests 419 529 —110) —20.79 PREPAREDNESS °° Wards With Lists of Nurses 678 544 +134) 4+24.63 Cash Receipts $ 474,286.61| § 553,032.63| —S$78,746.02) —14.23 FINANCES Cash Disbursements 434,016.32] § 486,631.85) —S$52,615.53| —10.81 Net Assets $1,481,890.93)] §1,438,406.15| -++-$43,484.78} +3.02 MAGAZINE Relief Society Magazine Subscriptions 74,032 71,634 +2,398; +3.34 IN BRIEF / Kor j » sae | 2,230 — Ongmiséctions__—— WITH 101,691 EM bes > eB TO-158 063 " NL e Cpyealion yERAG ott EOLOGY. MEWAKING rs AN of am Ww o SEWING, 9 691 LITERA URE NCE s D2 omEN. SOCIAL S RS. EivVEO™ 6 IN ec gos ROSS Ld auch RED Cases 19 730- hbS of — AND. Hal Siok s Hegel WERE "GIVEN. AND 12,946 Daud; 32,320 RS. WOMENSEWED —_ - iene EN nchWhbfans 42,527 - ARTICLES IN ADDITION TO WORKING — 191,053 - HOURS: ON OTHER CHURCH WELFARE PROJECTS AN yy: Wx NNW SQN SS SS Www 624: RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER 1946 _ Margaret C. Pickering, General Secretary-T reasurer Regulations governing the submittal of material for "Notes from the F ield" appear in the Magazine for F ebruary 1944, Page 104. GENERAL ACTIVITIES AND SPECIAL PROGRAMS MARICOPA STAKE (ARIZONA) RELIEF SOCIETY PAGEANT "THE ELECT LADY" pantomime, verse, and song. The different wards Presented episodes relating to the special work which has been accomplished by each General President. Evalyn B. W hite, draped in a beautiful white robe, and carrying a glittering gold and blue banner, held the center of the stage as the "Spirit of Relief Society." Young Relief Society women nowledge, etc. As a grand finale, the Singing Mothers took their positions on the Stage, carrying flags of different nations, They sang: "This Is a Choice Land," composed by Flora Hicks. During intermission special instrumental numbers were prePhotograph submitted by Maricopa Stake Secretary Irene A. Duke. Page 625 626 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER 1946 FARR WEST STAKE (OGDEN, UTAH) MARRIOTT WARD RELIEF SOCIETY VISITING TEACHERS Seated, left to right: Lola Dinsdale, Frances Reeder, Louise Elmer, Caroline Hewitt, Mary E. Pierce, Zina McFarland, Margaret Mortis. Standing, left to right: LaRee Elmer, Mabel Wahlstrom, Lilly Tracy, Second Counselor Mary Butler, President Frances Pierce, First Counselor Edith Ritchie, Marcia Bingham, Nevada Slater. Nora Jacobs was absent when the picture was taken. The Marriott Ward Relief Society entertained November 15, 1945, at the home of Lilly J. Tracy in honor of the visiting teachers. Dinner was served to sixteen, after which Sarah Slater, the visiting teachers' leader, presented each teacher with a beautiful card expressing appreciation for the faithful work accomplished. This group has achieved 100 per cent in their work for the past three years. The oldest visiting teacher, Mary E. Pierce, is eighty-four years old. She has been a visiting teacher for fiftytwo years. Some of the other teachers have served in this capacity for forty to fifty years. Photograph submitted by Nellie W. Neal, President, Farr West Stake Relief Society. REXBURG AND NORTH REXBURG STAKES HATTIE E. BROWN, Secretary of Rexburg Stake Relief Society reports a delightful party which was held March 16th, 1946, in the Rexburg Tabernacle, in honor of the retiring president, Elizabeth W. Stowell and board members, Mary E. Hunt, Loretta Rigby, Jennie Brown, and Emily Clark. More than 225 Relief Society workers attended and a program of music and tributes to the retiring officers was presented. Each honored guest was given a corsage and a card. After the program, refreshments were served in the ballroom. The table was covered with a lace cloth and the centerpiece was a large bowl of jonquils and carnations. A girls' trio from the Madison High School played instrumental music while refreshments were being served. It was an inspirational party and it well expressed appreciation for Sister Stowell and her co-workers. Sister Luseba W. Petersen is now President of Rexburg Stske Relief Society and Hattie L. Rigby is President of the newly organized North Rexburg Stake. NOTES FROM THE FIELD 627 BOISE STAKE (IDAHO), BOISE SECOND WARD, PROGRAM DEPICTING THE WORK AND THE SPIRIT OF RELIEF SOCIETY During the 1945 fall homecoming party of the Boise Second Ward, the Relief Society presented a program illustrating the growth of the organization and its purpose in the Church. In the photograph above, the women in old-fashioned costumes represent members of the first Relief Society. The photograph below represents a modern Relief Society and its accomplishments. During the program, a narrator told the story of the organization of the Relief Society and how its spirit and purpose are guiding forces for Relief Society today. Photographs submitted by Willis S. Peterson, Bishop, Boise Second Ward Pe cos 42 ¥ HEVER PAT EP Psy —~" m~ SME bi. #3 ti oha é e% NORTHERN STATES MISSION, DAYTON BRANCH (OHIO) RELIEF SOCIETY WORKERS: Front row, left to right: District President Ila J. Harvey, Mary Jones, President Erma C. Boam, Charlene Blimes. Second row, left to right: Ola Weidenheimer, Jane Jepson, Althea Kreitzer, Second Counselor Margaret Hetrick, Marion B. Wallgren. Third row, left to nght: Secretary Mabel H. Weiler, Mary Alexander, Minnie Mae Hunt. Back row, left to right: Letha Scott, Norma Boam, Marylyn Tinney, Lydia Stewart. Photograph submitted by Erma C. Boam. 1 Fo, ¥ SAN LUIS STAKE (COLORADO), MANASSA WARD SEVEN RETIRED WARD RELIEF SOCIETY PRESIDENTS AND THE PRESENT PRESIDENT Front row, left to right: Mary C. Crowther, Bernecie Rogers, Edith Christensen, Annie Dunn. Back row, left to right: President of Manassa Ward, Laura Sowards, Sarah Brady, Gertrude Haynie, Emily Jensen. Photograph submitted by San Luis Stake Relief Society President Jane C. Anderson. 628 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER 1946 NOTES FROM THE FIELD 629 NORTHWESTERN STATES MISSION, GREAT FALLS BRANCH (MONTANA) RELIEF SOCIETY ANNIVERSARY DINNER This dinner was held March 19, 1946. Eighty-five people were served. Immediately after the dinner a special musical program was presented, followed by dancing. The Great Falls Relief Society has enjoyed a very successful year, with forty-eight active members, headed by President Lucy J. Egan and assisted by Counselors Jennie Dillow and Leah Call, Secretary Alice Harris, and chorister Helen Bergman. 'The class leaders are: literature, Maudell Hartman; theology, Myrle Thurber; social science, Ina Gearhart. Photograph submitted by President Lucy J. Egan. WEST POCATELLO STAKE (IDAHO), SINGING MOTHERS Assembled for Sunday. Evening meeting November 4, 1945 630 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER 1946 ST. JOSEPH STAKE (ARIZONA), THATCHER WARD, SINGING MOTHERS March 17, 1946, at the anniversary of the organization of the Relief Society. Reading from left to right, front row: Manuella Mickelson; Pearl Dodge; Helen Nations; Eliza Tanner; Lettie Busby; Lillie Allen; Louise Robinson; Adelia Mecham; Bernice Stowell; Bertha Green; Marie Farley; Georgia Allen; Pearl Reed; Ruth Hullahan; Lexie Mullenaux; Beulah Daley. Second row: Ella Moody; Cary Thatcher; Velma Nelson; Doris Moody; Grace Allen; Wanda Sparks; Olive Hoopes; Lillie Hawkins; Eunice Curtis; Genevive Woods; Tillie McClellan; Ethel Mortenson; Velda Hancock; Eliza Motes; Betty Ferrin. Third Row: Lillie Smith; Nora Hoopes; Thora Harless; Marjory Layton; Nancy Cutler; Nira Lee; Sophrane Clawson; Irene Woods; Eloise Householder; Velma West: Maud Greer; Martha Mortenson; Olive Robinson. The Thatcher Ward Singing Mothers were organized in 1938 under the direction of Sister Lettie Mickelson, then president of the Thatcher Ward Relief Society, with Tillie McClellan as director and Phoebe Pease as accompanist. These sisters have sung at many quarterly conferences of the St. Joseph Stake, have served as a choir in the Thatcher Ward, have furnished music for nearly every funeral in the ward, and have given much community service. These Singing Mothers are now under the direction of President Lavona Hoopes, with Louise Robinson and Ella Lee as counselors. Marie Farley is the present conductor and Bernice Stowell is organist. Photograph submitted by Grace M. Cluff, Secretary, St. Joseph Stake Relief Society. > SONG Margery S. Stewart I am not one, but three. The girl I was, still walks with me; The woman I shall be tomorrow Goes proud and wise and old in sorrow; And each would claim me for her own, Aching laughter. Aching bone. But I ignore them. Strong, serene, I am the golden years between. LESSON, E, DEPARIMENT Sheology—Church History Lesson 19—The Relief Society Developed Elder H. Wayne Driggs For Tuesday, December 3, 1946 Objective: growth and joy of women in service. HE administration of the restored Church of Christ as it now is organized upon the earth comes under the order of the Priesthood. 'This means that God himself is at the helm, that the various offices of his order were created by his will and at his express command, and, that in those who lead in his work there must be an understanding of the meaning of true humility, or the Lord cannot fully bestow his blessings. In other words, "not my will, but thine, be done," must be the devout wish of those who would serve him. It may be a long and weary road men travel before they truly come to the full realization of this perfect order of living, and by the time that many have done so, they are ready to pass on into another life, leaving the world once again to a new generation which must for itself learn, through trial and error, the Lord's way to better living. To help his wayward children, in part at least, to understand the blessings of To trace the steps which developed an organization to provide for the brotherly kindness which lead to the kingdom, God instituted the establishment among men of our constitutional government (Doc. And Cov. 101:77-80). The Constitution and Bill of Rights guarantee justice for all. But men, not mindful of the will of God in their lives, often forget the good, and, if called into public office, seek only to promote personal advancement or the interests of special groups. A constitution with bylaws, while one of the best instruments devised by which the common man may be assured his rights, is yet short of the perfect order for the more abundant life. For the perfect brotherhood of man, there needs to be a complete understanding of the fatherhood of God. When men learn that the Lord's way is the best way, then they will accept those he calls to preside over his people and regard their words of counsel as his own. Such an order literally brings upon the earth the kingdom—since those Page 631 632 leading have a direct channel to the source of all wisdom, and power and vision to lead the Church aright. In the rich, but trying days, of "Nauvoo the Beautiful," the long: felt desire of the women of the Church to organize their efforts in service found fulfillment. The ex: acting work of manual labor on the part of the men of the Church could not have been borne for so long a period had not the women been ever at hand to provide the physical and spiritual comforts. During the building of the Kirtland Temple, it will be remembered, the sisters were ever on hand. The wife of Hiram Kimball, Sarah M. Kimball, tells of how the sisters of the Church would cheerfully chum butter and bring it to the workmen even to the point of denying their own tables. The spirit of co-operative industry was ever a part of the restored Church. Men and women put the cause of Zion above self. This, naturally, created a desire among them to organize. It is a most significant fact that, as a result of such a desire, the Relief Society came into being, not so much from the standpoint of its being organized, but rather by the way in which the Prophet of the Lord turned that desire into the more perfect pattern of organization under the Priesthood. Note how it was done as related in an account by Sarah M. Kimball: In the spring of 1842, a maiden lady (Miss Cook) was seamstress for me, and the subject of combining our efforts for assisting the temple hands came up in conversation. She desired to be helpful, but had no means to furnish. I told her I would furnish material if she would RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER 1946 make some shirts for the workmen. It was then suggested that some of the neighbors might wish to combine means and efforts with ours, and we decided to invite a few to come and consult with us on the subject of forming a Ladies' Society. The neighboring sisters met in my parlor and decided to organize. I was delegated to call on Sister Eliza R. Snow and ask her to write for us a constitution and bylaws and submit them to President Joseph Smith prior to our next Thursday's meeting. She cheerfully responded, and when she read them to him he replied that the constitution and bylaws were the best he had ever seen. "But," he said, "this is not what you want. Tell the sisters their offering is accepted of the Lord, and He has something better for them than a written constitution. Invite them all to meet me and a few of the brethren in the Masonic Hall over my store next Thursday afternoon, and I will organize the sisters under the Priesthood after a pattern of the Priesthood." He further said, "This Church was never per fectly organized until the women were thus organized" (Relief Society Magazine, VI, March 1919, page 129). The Lord had something better for them than a written constitution. How significant and most fittingly true have become the Prophet's words. A society founded upon 4 constitutional order would have, by nature, its roots in the customs of men. Officers to lead such a society would tend to look more to the legally granted rights of their calling than to the calling itself. But the Lord, through his Prophet, chose to outline a better way of turning to account the desires of his handmaidens. 'They, in part at least, were to function under the. Administrative order of the Priesthood even though they could not be given the Priesthood itself. Accordingly, 'on Thursday afternoon, March 17, 1842, as the day agreed upon, eighteen attentive LESSON DEPARTMENT women met the Prophet Joseph Smith in company with Elders John Taylor and Willard Richards. The Prophet called Elder Taylor to the chair and appointed Elder Willard Richards to act as secretary. "The Spirit of God Like a Fire Is Burning" was sung, and Elder Taylor opened the meeting with prayer. The Prophet then began to organize the women present, who were: Emma H. Smith Sarah M. Cleveland Phebe Ann Hawkes Elizabeth Jones Sophia Packard Philinda Merrick Martha Knight Desdemona Fulmer Elizabeth Ann Whitney Bathsheba W. Smith Phebe M. Wheeler Elvira A. Coles Margaret A. Cook Sarah M. Kimball Eliza R. Snow Sophia Robinson Leonora Taylor Sophia R. Marks In addition to the eighteen women present, the following women, not present, were also admitted to membership at this first meeting: Sarah Higbee Thirza Cahoon Keziah A. Morrison Marinda N. Hyde Abigail Allred Mary Snider Lydia D. Granger Cynthia A. Eldredge President Joseph Smith addressed the sisters: " _ _ to illustrate the object of the Society that the Society of the sisters might provoke the brethren to good works in looking to the wants of the poor, searching after objects of charity and in administering to their wants—to assist by correcting the morals and strengthening the virtues of the community, and save the elders the trouble of rebuking; that they may give their time to other duties, 633 etc., in their public teaching" (Relief Society Minutes, March 17, 1842). President Smith further remarked: «that an organization to show them how to work was sufficient, or how to go to work was sufficient. He proposed that the sisters elect a presiding officer to preside over them, and let the presiding officer choose two counselors to assist in the duties of her office... And if they need his instruction, ask him, he will give it from time to time.... Let this presidency serve as a Constitution—all their decisions be considered law, and acted upon as such. If any officers are wanted to carry out the design of the institution let them be appointed and set apart... - The minutes of your meetings ill be precedent for you to act upon—your Constitution and law" (A Century of Relief Society, page 15)- "Let this presidency setve as a Constitution—all their decisions be considered law, and acted upon as such." To one not knowing the workings of the Priesthood, such a plan of organization might seem dictatorial. In outward form perhaps, yes, but in inward spirit, far from such. To one who understands the gospel call to authority, comes the knowledge that such falls under the words of the Master, "Ye have not chosen me but I have chosen you." In other words, the call to true leadership can come only to one who is worthy in every way to completely forget self in service to fellow man. "rae that is greatest among you shall be your servant" (Matt. 23:11). If this principle is thoroughly understood by all Church members, then officer and layman, alike, willingly unite for the sake of the cause, since the cause is greater by far than anyone in it, great or small. By instructing the sisters to counsel together under their presidency, and by directing that presidency to look to the head of the Church for final counsel, the Prophet established for the Relief Society the pattern of government that could lay claim on direct inspiration from the Lord himself. Think how such an organization so conceived and so dedicated can serve! To all its members, there can come the assurance that all services given will go directly to the relief of want and suffering. To the officers of such a society, there can come the peace of mind known only to those who have taken upon them his yoke and learned that his burden is light. Why? Because they have the joy of service that comes because the call came rather than was sought. Today, after more than a century, the golden symbol of the Relief Society circles the hearts of more than a hundred thousand souls. 'The good bread of life and the touch of learning are therein shown, and the phrase "Charity never faileth," forever becomes the watchword of service. Women who belong have found its eternal meaning. Suggestions for Active Reading and Discussion: With the help of the suggested readings given below, have the class carry on the discussion as follows: first, answer the question; second, read the assigned part of the text to discover wherein we must "give heed unto his word." 1. On March 20, 1839, just about three years to the day before the organization of the Relief Society, the Prophet Joseph Smith was a prisoner in the Liberty Jail. He gave us at that time one of the most beautiful prophecies on the Priesthood of God and its functioning that has ever been written. In part, he said, "That the rights of the Priesthood are inseparably connected with the powers of heaven" (Doc. And Cov. 121:36). Just what does this mean? Give each member of your class a few minutes time to write down her answer. Then have each respond. After the response, have all of the 1215s section of the Doctrine and Covenants read without interruption. At the conclusion of the reading, make especially the verses 33 to 46 the subject of class discussion. 2. If you were asked to name just one joy of service the Relief Society has offered you, what would it be? Get a response from all class members before reading to them the following words, addressed by the Prophet Joseph at the sixth meeting of the Society held at Nauvoo, April 28, 1842: Let this Society teach women how to behave towards their husbands, to treat them with mildness and affection. When a man is borne down with trouble, when he is perplexed with care and difficulty, if he can meet a smile instead of an argument or a murmur—if he can meet with mildness, it will calm down his soul and soothe his feelings; when the mind is going to despair, it needs a solace of affection and kindness. You will receive instructions through the order of the Priesthood which God has established, through the medium of those appointed to lead, guide and direct the affairs of the Church in this last dispensation; and I now turn the key in your behalf in the name of the Lord, and this Society shall rejoice, and knowledge and intelligence shall flow down from this time henceforth; this is the beginning of better days to the poor and needy, who shall be made to rejoice and pour forth blessings on your heads (Documentary History of the Church, IV, pp. 606-7). For this lesson, the most significant material for inspiration and reading is A Centenary of Relief Society, published by the General Board of the Relief Society, price so cents. The teacher should bnng to the class at least one copy of this excellent presentation of one hundred years of Relief Society. 634 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER 1946 Objective: To show that the pioneers recognized and Practiced the first Puinciple of revealed religion, namely faith—faith in God, faith in their leaders, faith in one another, and faith in a great Cause, HAT the Pioneers had great and known, western desert, Where, far abiding faith in their Heavenly from their snemies, they hoped to was constantly demonstrated in work out in their own way their son their Many cial and téligious Problems. | CO-Operative undertakings, _- Ne migration of the Mormon One of the severest tests of their Ploneers— their exodus from Nawfaith came in the winter of 1846 vo, their journey atross the plaitis, And they were not only losing their question always arises, how ge homes, but also their beautify] city, Ver accomplished? The answer is Nauvoo, and their beloved temple that it was accomplished through Which had been built at such great unfaltering faith, accompanied by Cost in effort and sacrifice. Unceasing Struggle and matchless hard work, First, there was implicit faith and trust in the Lord and in his protect. Ing care, Second, there was faith in their leaders and in the Inspiration of those leaders. And finally, Cre was their faith in the great It was their Conviction that theirs was the true Sospel of the Master, Which had been restored again, and Prepare the earth for the coming of ust. Thus it is scen that religion LESSON DEPARTMENT 635 636 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER 1946 Work Mleeting—Sewing (A Course for Optional Use by Wards and Branches at Work Meeting) Lesson 3—Fitting and Adjusting Patterns, and Cutting Work Meeting Committee, Velma N. Simonsen, Chairman For Tuesday, December 10, 1946 Objective: To decide the proper style of pattern and suitable material for a given individual; to teach how to interpret commercial patterns; to demonstrate the adjusting of a pattern to individual measurements, and the cutting. Reference: Patterns and Measurements GATISFACTORY work is based on accurate measurement. To measure is to verify a given length or space in terms of a_ standard gauge. For all types of dressmaking, a good pattern is indispensable. It is not economy to use makeshift patterns at any time. Widths and lengths of the figure are the basic measurements used in patterns. All patterns should be purchased according to bust measurements, with the exception of skirts, slacks, etc., which are usually purchased by hip or waist measurements. It is better to use a tape measure to compare the size of your pattern with your own measurements, rather than to attempt to pin the thin tissue pieces together and try them on; however, in order to thoroughly understand a given pattern, it may be helpful to pin the various parts together before laying them out. A pattern carefully fitted to your measurements, lines, and proportions, should cut a garment which will need little or no The Complete Book of Sewing, Chapters 10 and 11. Fitting. 'The home sewer can eliminate fitting problems by carefully following, step by step, the instructions given on each pattern for making the proper adjustments. Patterns are made to standard measurements, yet seldom is the human figure standard in every detail. Laying on the Pattern To ensure the proper fit of a garment, lay the pattern over the material on a table, being sure that the pieces are laid either straight of the goods or bias, as the pattern indicates. Cutting Be sure that the pattern and the material are pinned securely together, and are lying flat on the table before beginning to cut the garment. Also, recheck carefully with a tape measure, the bust, waist, hip, and length measurements before doing your cutting. Assignment for January: Bring your pattern and cut-out material to class. Also, bring pieces of different types of cloth, such as cotton, wool, silk, rayon, chiffon, etc.; also, a needle, thread, and thimble. LESSON DEPARTMENT 637 SLiterature—Amenice as Revealed in Its Literature lesson 3_America's First War for Freedom Elder Howard R. Driggs For Tuesday, December 17, 1946 Within its shade of elm and oak grounded in the art of governing The church of Berkley Manor stood; themselves. There Sunday found the rura olk, True had gone forward—for And some esteem'd of gente ood eS 8 a % the most pat willingly—under king The pastor rose; the prayer was Strong; appointed governors. Et they had The psalm was warrior David's song; a large share, through their own The text, a few short wares of might— chosen assemblies, in making their The Lord of Hosts shall arm the right!" own laws an d directing their own welfare as colonists. Jealous of theit Of sacred rights to be secured. ++ rights as English freemen, they And, msing on his theme's broad wing, brooked little tyranny from the ofa face of death he dared to fling ficers of the Crown i t t king. 5; os: efiance to 4 he 3 Under beneficent administration A moment there was awful pause— of such prime mumnistets as Wilham When Berkley cried, "Cease, traitor! Patt, their basic liberties wete tT ceasel spected. When others of less democratic spirit rose to power, however, trouble began. Such was the situaHis holiest places then are ours, tion during the reign of George the In bone the dawn of nai day, "Pid. Unlike his father and his ere is a time to 118 t and pray."; 2 tien ising," Thomas O Read grandfather, who had played only minor roles as English monarchs, this Third George, under stimulus ABout a century and a half had it is said of his ambitious mother, passed since the Virginians had decided that he would be king in landed on the shore of America. More than name. From that band of adventurers, the Backed by supporters, then of a Pilgrims, and other small groups of majority in Parliament, and with freedom seekers clinging through king-minded prime ministers, for 4 bitter hardships to 4 new world, the time he had his autocratic waypopulation had increased to more debt, incurred largely by the French than three million souls. Expand: and Indian Wat, had to be met. Ing farms, fur trade, beginnings of Since this had been fought on manufacturing and of shipping, American soil, it was felt that the were adding wealth, comforts, and _ colonists should pay their share. TO Juxuries. Beyond this, there was althis there was not so much objecso something even more significant: tion; but the way the taxes were Americans were becoming solidly levied, with the 'Americans having no voice in the matter, was in violation of the ancient right expressed in the phrase, "No taxation without representation." When agents of the king tried to enforce the "Stamp Act" as passed by Parliament, on the colonists, they met bitter opposition. Other laws to suppress the patriotic resistance only added fuel to the flames. Finally, alarmed by the conflagration they had touched off in America, the British lawmakers called Ben Franklin, then in London as representative of Pennsylvania, to get some firsthand information as to the situation Overseas. In response to their questions as to what were the causes of the uprising, the American statesman told them frankly of the abuses they were heaping on their fellow freemen in America. He said, further, that by these acts Parliament, formerly looked upon with respect and gratitude for the protection it had given the colonies in their rights, was losing its high place in their hearts. "Don't you think," asked one, "they would submit to the Stamp Act, if it was modified, the obnoxious parts taken out, and the duty reduced to some particulars of small moment?" "No," replied Franklin, "they will never submit to it." "Tf the Stamp Act were repealed, would it induce the Assemblies of America to acknowledge the right of Parliament to tax them?" "No, never." "Is there a power on earth that can force them to erase their resolutions?" "No power," returned Franklin, "how great so ever, can force men to change their opinions." Largely as the result of Franklin's plain talk, Parliament repealed the Stamp Act except for a small tax on tea. This was kept, it seems, that King George might assert his right - to tax the colonies. An answer to this came dramatically from a group of Americans, when, disguised as Indians, they boarded a vessel in Boston Harbor and pitched its cargo of tea overboard. This so-called "Boston Tea Party" made the king and his cohorts furious. By royal decree the harbor was Closed, and an army sent there to be quartered, in part, in the homes of the people, and to enforce the will of the monarch. Naturally, this set not only Massachusetts but all the other colonies aflame. Literature, expressive of the spirit of the times, came mainly in the form of fiery speeches of protest against tyranny. One of these, by Patrick Henry in the House of Burgesses—or Legislature—of Virginia, sounded a ringing keynote for the patriot forces. He had introduced a resolution there calling for Virginia to join with the other colonies in the fight for freedom. Other members of the House, whose interests were tied closely with England, voiced their opposition. When they had said their say, young Patrick, brought up on the frontier, rose calmly and said: Mr. President, it is natural for man to indulge in the illusions of hope. We are apt to shut our eyes to a painful truth, and listen to the song of that siren until she transforms us into beasts. Is this the part of wise men engaged in the great and arduous struggle for liberty? I have but one lamp by which my feet are guided, and that is the lamp of experience. I know of no way of judging the future but by the past. And judging by the past, I wish to know what there has been in the conduct of the British Ministry for the last ten years to justify 638 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER 1946 LESSON DEPARTMENT the hopes with which gentlemen have been pleased to solace themselves and the House? Is it the insidious smile with which our petition has lately been teceived? Trust it not sir.... Suffer yourselves not to be betrayed with a kiss, Rising in intensity, as he recited wrongs and met the arguments against his resolution, he finally brought his classic address to its close with these burning words: What is it that gentlemen wish? What would they have? Is life so dear or peace SO sweet as to be purchased at the price of chains and slavery? Forbid it, Almighty God! I know not what course others may take; but as for me, give me liberty or give me death! Patrick Henry's resolution was passed, and Virginia joined with full force in the war for freedom. One of her great sons, George Washington, was made commander. Inchief of the American armies, Another, Thomas Jefferson, was to write the Declaration of Independence, an immortal document of classic quality. Patrick Henry, chosen governor of the Old Dominion, was to throw all his youthful vigor into the cause. To the north, in New England, War was on. Patriots, led by Hancock and Adams, were openly and secretly resisting the armies of England. A group called the "Sons of Liberty" kept close watch on the enemy's movements. One of these, Paul Revere, getting word of an at. Tack planned by the "redcoats" to destroy stores the Americans had gathered, made a midnight ride from Boston to Lexington to sound the warning, while William Dawes took another route to rouse the country folk. In Longfellow's "Paul Revere's 639 Ride," one of his Wayside Inn poems—and a classic in storytelling, we are given the picture and spint of those times. Just a few lines from the old favorite will serve to bring them back vibrantly: He said to his friend, "If the British march By land or sea from the town to-night, Hang a lantern aloft in the belfry arch Of the North Church tower as a signal light— One, if by land, and two, if by sea; And I on the opposite shore will be, Ready to ride and spread the alarm Through every Middlesex village and farm, For the country folk to be up and to arm." Then he said, "Good night!" and with muffled oar Silently rowed to the Charlestown shore... Two lantems flash the signal from the high tower; then— A hurry of hoofs in a village street, A shape in the moonlight, a bulk in the dark, And beneath, from the pebbles, in passing, a spark Struck out by a steed flying fearless and fleet: That was all! And yet, through the gloom and the light, The fate of a nation was riding that night; And the spark struck out by that steed, in his flight, Kindled the land into flame with its heat. Benjamin Franklin, meantime, barely escaping capture by the British, had returned to his homeland. With him came Thomas Paine. An. Other lover of liberty, to lend a hand in helping the Americans win the struggle. Through his stirring pamphlets, Paine lifted the cause into the clear, not only for the struggling patriots but for the world. Wo essays, "Common Sense" and "The Crisis," are among the best of these writings. In this para- graph from "The Crisis," by this friend of the early Americans, we catch something of the spirit and the thinking of Thomas Paine: These are times that try men's souls. The summer soldier and the summer patriot will, in this crisis, shrink from the service to their country; but he that stands it now deserves the love and thanks of man and woman. 'Tyranny... Is not easily conquered; yet we have this glorious consolation with us, that the harder the conflict, the more glorious the triumph. What we obtain too cheap, we esteem too lightly: it is dearness, only, that gives everything its value, Heaven knows how to put a proper price upon its goods; and it would be strange indeed if so celestial an article as FREEDOM should not be highly rated. There were staunch friends of the struggling colonies even among English leaders. Some of those in Parliament gave warm support to the cause for which Americans were then fighting. One of them, the brilliant Edmund Burke, indeed, made what is esteemed by literary critics as among the finest of orations. This on the theme, Conciliation with America. Following are illustrative lines which show its high quality as well as expressing its sincere friendship for those fighting for freedom: The proposition is peace. Not peace through the medium of wat; not peace to be hunted through the labyrinth of intricate and endless negotiations.... It is simple peace sought in its natural course and in its ordinary haunts. It is peace sought in the spirit of peace. The use of force alone is but temporary. It may subdue for a moment, but it does not remove the necessity of subduing again; and a nation is not governed which is perpetually to be conquered. Burke's resolution was not passed by Parliament. He was of the minority party at that time. England, however, after about half a century, finally arrived on something of his high plane of thinking, and put his ideas into practice in governing its colonies. This, however, was after she had lost the richest of them all] —our country. The time came, in the struggle, when American statesmen saw that the freedom sought could be won only through complete separation from the mother country. Our Continental Congress, after earnest consideration, finally unitedly took this step by adopting the Declaration of Independence—drafted by Thomas Jefferson, with the help of the other members of the committee— —Benjamin Franklin, John Adams, Roger Sherman, and Robert Livingston. Its opening lines strike the keynote with the assertion of "man's inalienable right to life, liberty and the pursuit of happiness," to secure which "governments are instituted among men, deriving their just powers from the consent of the governed." A recital of the wrongs suffered through tyranny of a misguided king, is followed with the declaration severing all connection with the mother country; and then comes the solemn words: "For support of this declaration we mutually pledge our lives, our fortunes, and our sacted honor." After the signing of this document by all the fifty-three representatives of the Thirteen Colonies, John Hancock, president of the body, is reported to have said, "Now, gentlemen, we must all hang together." To which Benjamin Franklin returned, "Yes, or we shall all hang separately." It was a serious, courageous, 640 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER 1946 LESSON DEPARTMENT far-seeing action these stalwart Americans had performed that day. As a boy, the writer was brought close to the spirit of that first Independence Day by an unknown poet, who bequeathed to us the poem "Independence Bell." 'Though too young to get the full import of its meaning, the lad took delight in reciting its ringing lines. Among them, these: Will they do it? Dare they do it? Who is speaking? What's the news? What of Adams? What of Sherman? Oh, God grant they. Won't refuse! The story of the boy who stood waiting to give the signal that the Declaration had been signed, was especially stirring for another young American who liked to make these lines resound: Hush'd the people's swelling murmur As they listen breathlessly— "Ring!" he shouts; "Ring, grandpapa! Ring! Oh, ring for liberty!" Final lines from the patriotic poem echoed with waxing import with the years: The old State House bell is silent, Hushed is now its clamorous tongue, But the spirit it awakened Still is living, ever young. And we'll ne'er forget the bellman Who, that great day in July, Hailed the birth of Independence, Which, please God, shall never die. One thing that ever seems born of true inspiration is this: On the Liberty Bell is this line from Leviticus (25:10): "Proclaim liberty ihirouattowe all the land unto all the inhabitants thereof." What more fitting line could be chosen for that bell? Magnetized by the Declaration of Independence, true Americans 641 everywhere gave themselves to the testing task of maintaining their bold stand for freedom. The British, stung by the challenge, girded for the fight. A war, dragging through years, came with its discouragements, hopes, and tears. Yet steadfastness and sacrifice on the part of the determined patriots finally brought victory and peace for them. Their enemy, vanquished at last in 1783, signed the treaty that acknowledged the independence of America. A new nation, with boundaries extending from Canada to Florida and westward to the "Father of Waters" was born. Right of self-government had been established. More than this, out of the struggle had come a tich heritage of heroism. Out of the rich materials of this first war for freedom distinctive American literature, naturally, has been woven. Limitations of this study permit only a glance at some of the stirring poems and orations, and brief mention of some of the intriguing novels portraying characters, events, legends, and scenes of those days. Not many poems produced during the Revolution have survived. One that keeps its popularity—this because of its sprightly rhythm and humor is "Yankee Doodle." It was created in derision of the illclad American fighters by some "redcoat," and seized upon by the colonial boys as a battle song. In later years, our poets gave us poems that are vibrant with the spirit of the fight for freedom. Notable among these, are: "Paul Revere's Ride," already mentioned; "Song of Marion's Men," by Bryant; "Nathan Hale," by Francis Miles Finch; "Warren's Address," by John Pierpont; 642 "Molly Maguire at Monmouth," by William Collins; "The Old Continentals," by McMaster; ""Grandmother's Story of The Battle of Bunker Hill," by Holmes; and "Concord Hymn," by Emerson, from which the following stanzas are taken. It was sung when the battle monument at Concord was dedicated. By the rude bridge that arched the flood, Their flag to April's breeze unfurled, Here once the embattled farmers stood, And fired the shot heard round the - world. * ke e eR HR EK Spirit that made those heroes dare To die, and leave their children free, Bid Time and Nature gently spare The shaft we raise to them and thee. Novels, portraying _ historical events and characters, are usually created some years after the dramatic occurrences have been enacted. This is to get the perspective and the romance, which can hardly be seen when too close to persons and happenings. To use an analogy: when one stands close to a mountain, one is likely to see its roughness, and little peaks may loom large. Set it off in the distance, shroud it in purple haze with a halo of sunset, and it becomes more mystic, more romantic. Its peaks, too, take on their proper proportions. Our war for freedom, in keeping with this illustration, was not portrayed in fiction until half a century or more had passed. Then we began to get such stories as James Fennimore Cooper's Spy—based on the tale of a patriot who, at the risk of life and honor, served Washington. Hugh Wynne, Free Quaker, by S. Weir Mitchell, is another novel porRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER 1946 traying the times around old Philadelphia. Janice Meredith, by Paul L. Ford, gives us an intriguing story of a patriotic girl of New Jersey at the time Washington was outmatching the British in that colony. The Seats of the Mighty, by Gilbert Parker, takes us into Canada during those stirring days. In The Great Meadow, by Elizabeth Roberts, we have pictured beginnings that led to the Revolution, and something of the training of Washington for his leadership. Rabble in Arms, by Kenneth Roberts, pictures the days that the Continental Army was finding itself. Drums Along the Mohawk, by Walter D. Edmonds, is another realistic picture of the struggle set among the settlers and Indians of Upper New York, with the Dutch General Herkimer as one of the leading characters. Richard Carvel, by Winston Churchill, gives us a portrayal of the war in the farther south. In Alice of Old Vincennes, by Thompson, we are taken into the Northwest Territory wtth the stalwart George Rogers Clark. Horseshoe Robinson, by John Pendleton Kennedy, is another novel much in spirit like Cooper's tales, but portraying characters and scenes during the fighting in the Carolinas. These are but a few —those that have won favor with readers—of the stories created out of the rich materials of America's first war for freedom. Obviously, in this necessarily brief lesson, only a few guidelines could be offered to those who would read the worthy literature portraying the days when America was fighting for liberty. What has been given, however, to interpret the inner spirit and true meaning of that struggle, should LESSON DEPARTMENT be of vital value in helping members of the class to find literature— songs, poems, orations, essays, dramas, and novels—that are truly American in spirit. This study should also give real aid in the interpretation and evaluation of such literature. Discussion and Activities 1. "Sacred rights" is an expression in the opening poem. What would you give as one of these rights? Z. Why were the Americans so insistent that there be no taxation without Teptesentation? How is that principle protected for us today? 3. Under the direction of your class leader, take your part in preparing for a fifteen to twenty minute voicing of a few choice poems—such as those named in the lesson—which express, with artistry, the spirit, thought, or some stirring event of America's first war for freedom. 4. Join with class members in reporting briefly on some outstanding novel—such as those named—giving its plot, its major scenes, its main characters. Perhaps some brief scene from a novel could be read, 643 5. Select from the following list of names, one that suggests a story or saying that is linked with the Revolutionary War. Tell in a sentence what the name recalls: Ethan Allen Nathan Hale Betsy Ross Paul Revere Valley Forge Benedict Arnold Kings Mountain John Paul Jones Boston Tea Party Lexington Green John Hancock Lafayette Cornwallis Molly Pitcher Liberty Bell Anthony Wayne Francis Marion The Delaware Major Andre * Robert Morris General References Some good brief text on American history. An anthology of American poetry. Various novels named in this lesson. These may be found in public and home libraries. Paine, Thomas: "The Crisis." "Common Sense' and Burke, Edmund, Conciliation with America. Note: Many of the poems mentioned in this lesson can be found in school readers and school classics. Optional seoneuin sliceles of pe The Cospel as a Way of Life Lesson 3—Faith Elder T. Edgar Lyon For Tuesday, December 17, 1946 OUR children, ranging in age from four to nine years, were downhearted. It seemed to them that all the joy in life had suddenly ended. Their mother, a normally healthy woman, lay in bed, suffering physical pain and the discomfort of a high temperature. Father was at work, and the children, frightened by the illness that had come upon their mother, were in despair. Then the nine-year-old hustled the three younger ones into the back bedroom and said, "Let's ask Heavenly Father to make Mom better." Kneeling down, the oldest one prayed fervently to God for the res- 644 toration of their mother. When she had finished her petition to the Almighty, she said to the others, "Mama will soon be well again." Returning to the mother's bedroom, they found their mother greatly improved. "Mama," said their spokesman, "Father in heaven is going to make you better. We prayed, and I know you'll soon be well." Within an hour she was about her household cares again, all signs of fever and pain having disappeared. This story is one of simple faith that has been duplicated many times in the lives of faithful Christians. Of course, the exercise of faith has not always met with such instant spiritual manifestations, for reasons which are beyond our understanding, but faith is the first principle of the gospel and it is imperative that we develop our faith to the utmost. In the eleventh chapter of Hebrews is found one of the greatest expositions of faith that is contained in the Bible. It defines faith as "... The substance of things hoped for, the evidence of things not seen." Then the writer makes the declaration that through faith the worlds were framed by the word of God (Heb. 11:1, 3). From these declarations it becomes evident that faith is a principle of great power and constructive action. The following explanation of the nature of faith is very descriptive: Faith is a conviction, an attitude of mind, which is not certain knowledge and yet is an assurance far stronger than mere belief, hope or desire. We have a knowledge of things we have already experienced. Our knowledge relates largely to the past, including, of course, the imRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER 1946 mediate past. Faith, on the other hand, is pointed toward the future, toward the possible, toward the unexperienced or larger experience. A man of faith is hopeful, optimistic, courageous, adventurous, confident and forward-looking. Faith is like a searchlight casting its beam far ahead of its present position (Lowell L. Bennion, The Religion Of the Latter-day Saints, p. 115). When the Prophet Joseph Smith was listing the beliefs of the Latterday Saints, he wrote, "We believe that the first principles and ordinances of the Gospel are, First, faith in the Lord Jesus Christ...." This was not a mere chance statement. It was a declaration of the prime importance of faith in the life of an individual. It was placed first because upon one's faith depends one's progression. Without faith, one neither seeks to find God, nor attempts to make his life conform to the will of God. It thus becomes the starting point from which one progresses from a condition of ignorance of God and his commandments, to one in which the saving power of God is recognized. So important is the element of faith during mortality, that it is listed as one of the primary purposes for restoring the gospel to the earth. Perhaps the most detailed discussion of the nature of faith and how it can be developed and used is found in the Book of Mormon, Alma 32:16-43. Alma states that "... Faith is not to have a perfect knowledge of things; therefore if ye have faith ye hope for things which are not seen, which are true" (Alma 320). He then tells how one may develop faith, and his teachings are valuable because they are descriptive of the method that we need to use LESSON DEPARTMENT more and more in our present-day lives. But behold, if ye will awake and arouse your faculties, even to an experiment upon my words, and exercise a particle of faith, yea even if ye can no more than desire to believe, let this desire work in you, even until ye believe in a manner that ye can give place for a portion of my word (Alma 32:27). He further likened this experimental method of developing faith to the planting of a seed, which germinates and grows to a mature plant. In similar fashion, Alma admonished his hearers to nourish religious belief until it would grow into profound faith. But if you will nourish the word... By your faith with great diligence, and with patience, looking forward to the fruit thereof, it shall take root; and behold it shall be a tree springing up into everlasting life (Alma 32:41). When the preface to the Doctrine and Covenants was revealed, the Lord declared that because of his knowledge of the calamities that should come upon the earth, he had called Joseph Smith to instruct the inhabitants of the earth how to escape from the coming afflictions. He listed the purposes of the restoration, and one of them is stated as follows: "That faith also might increase in the earth" (Doc. And Cov. 1:21). From this statement it is apparent that the promotion of an increase in faith was an essential goal of the restored gospel. The coming forth of the Book of Mormon, the first vision, the visitations of Moroni, the restoration of the Aaronic and the Melchizedek Priesthoods, and the many revelations on doc- 645 trine and Church government were all calculated to increase faith in the hearts of men, if they would investigate the authenticity of these events and use Alma's method of developing faith. Of primary importance in the life of anyone who wishes to gain eternal exaltation is an unwavering faith in God the Father. We must study his teachings contained in the scriptures and learn his will concerning us. We must recognize him as the Creator of the universe, and as the Father of our spirits. A second requirement concerning faith on the part of the individual is that one must have an abiding and unwavering faith in the Lord Jesus Christ. To many people this requirement appears to call for nothing more than a passive acknowledgment and a confession of belief in his saving grace. The scriptures teach us, however, that this faith must become a dynainic, intelligent thing. We must study, investigate, pray, and gain a testimony of the reality of our Father in heaven. The next -step is to change our lives in such a way that we live in harmony with the spirit of Christ, and thus strive to make our lives Christ-like. True faith must be built upon a foundation of truth, and must be acquired through diligent study. The apostle Paul stated this doctrine | clearly in his letter to the Roman saints. He discussed the tenacious devotion with which the Jews observed the letter of their religious laws, and regretted the fact that their belief would not save them until they changed their ignorance of the truth for correct principles. Then he said: Brethren, my heart's desire and prayer to God for Israel is that they may be saved. For I bear them record that they have a zeal of God, but not according to knowledge. For they being ignorant of God's nghteousness, and going about to establish their own righteousness, have not submitted themselves unto the righteousness of God (Romans 10:1-3). Paul's teaching indicates that much more than devotion is required—faith must be based upon truth. Another requirement is that we have faith in the atonement of Jesus, and his redeeming power, and in the plan of salvation. Through this faith, we are enabled to overcome sin and forsake it. This faith will move us to action, whereby our faith will be manifest in our improved life and conduct. The gospel teaches mankind that no one should live exclusively within himself. Salvation is a collective ideal, designed to save all of God's children. Faith thus includes a belief in others. It asks us to love not only our neighbors, but our enemies as well. It requires us to forgive those who trespass against us. It demands that we work unceasingly to lead those who do not believe, to have faith in the gospel plan of salvation. It asks us to serve those in need, and divide our substance with the destitute. Nothing but an abiding faith in the Godhead and the gospel can lead men to have this great faith in others. Last, but by no means, least, we must have faith in ourselves. We must have faith that we are of divine origin, that our bodies are mortal tabernacles created by God, in which are housed his spirit children. When a person has attained this conviction, impure thoughts and vicious habits that corrupt the soul will be shunned. The Holy Spirit may then be the constant companion of that individual, to inspire and direct in pure thoughts, clean living, unselfish devotion to the cause of the Church and unlimited service to others. Questions and Activity Problems 1. Assign someone to search out important verses of Alma's discussion on the nature of faith and have them read in class. 2. List the five applications of faith that are discussed in the lesson. 3. Under what circumstances did Christ not perform mighty works? (See Matt. 13:53-58. Contrast with Matt. 17:14-21). 4. Suggest that during the discussion period some of the sisters might relate the methods by which their faith grew and increased until it became a conviction. References Smith, President Joseph F., Gospel Doctrine, pages 121-123. Teachings of the Prophet Joseph Smith, page 270. Talmage, James E., Articles of Faith, pp. 96-108. Talmage, James E., Vitality of Mormonism, pp. 78-82. A Soctal Science—The Family in the Gospel Plan NO social science lesson is printed in this issue of the Magazine as no lesson for this department is planned for the month of December, due to the holiday season. 646 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER 1946 AUTUMN HAS SPOKEN Dorothy ]. Roberts Sinks to g Planissimo, and bound Is the living lute of wing and melody, The vital flow ls ebbed in bough and blade That through a gold and emerald period Has stirred into a lyrica] cascade The summer's winged and Creeping myriad. The breathing wave of music now lS broken, Silencing cloud and clod -+ + Autumn has spoken, SS HEART'S REPLY (A Triolet) Anng Prince Redd From love that came on Wing-swift feet? Eagerly and quite as fleet, To love that came on Wing-swift fect As light as thistle flying, Page 647 GOLDEN NUGGETS OF THOUGHT A charming little book that everyone likes. Pocket size—carry it with you. Choice quotations from the writings of the wise. The title describes the book. 51.00 HIGHWAY HELPS LIGHTS ALONG LIFE'S GREAT HIGHWAY Short discussions (150 of them) on the gospel and other subjects. Each offers 5 to 15 minutes of inspirational reading and food for more and better thinking. $2.00 AND ALL LATTER-DAY SAINT BOOKS Wouldn't you like to have handy in your home, a price list of all the books of the Church? It is free to you for the asking. Just =e your name and address very plainly and mail to: EZRA L. MARLER BOOKS BY MAIL P. O. Box 267, Salt Lake City, Utah é should always be the result when energy is expended. Yet, like a dizzily spinning top, many businesses go 'round in the preparation of advertising and get nowhere. Month after month, the same thing happens again and again and nothing is accomplished but the expenditure of dollars that could be made to produce results. The function of a printing organization today is to help clients to plan printing that builds sales— to take copy and dramatize it, make it so irresistibly attractive that it must naturally draw the reader's attention. The waste of which we speak is often due to lack of understanding. Realization of this has made us sales minded. Your selling problem, and our experience puts us in a position to print your sales story so that it will get results. THE DESERET NEWS PRESS 29 Richards Street—Salt Lake City, Utah ASK FORA National Bist It's the Original KING JAMES VERSION (Authorized} "SINCE 1862 At YOUR BOOKSTORE A Cherished Gift for Christmas A CENTENARY OF RELIEF SOCIETY Limited number of this beautiful souvenir book, profusely illustrated, setting forth the history of the Relief Society from its organization in 1842 up to 1942, prepared by the General Board, now available at 50 cents per copy postpaid. Invaluable to all Relief Society members. A copy should be preserved in each Relief Society organization. Send to: General Board of Relief Society, 28 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City 1, Utah Page 648 When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine OFFERS YOUNG LATTER-DAY SAINTS Standard university training in world's finest social and spiritual environment at ESrigham Young University PROVO, UTAH AUTUMN QUARTER DATES Preliminary Examinations and Counseling for New Students beginning September 25 Registration for Other Students September 30 MAKE YOUR APPLICATION EARL({ the | 57 So. Main St. LADIES 3—PART OCTAVO MUSIC Specially Suitable for Relief Society EYE HATH NOT SEEN (Gaul) _...12 HEAR MY PRAYER (James) _._....12 HOLD THOU MY HAND (Briggs).15 HOLY REDEEMER (Marchetti) _.15 JUST FOR TODAY (Ambrose) __..12 O SAVIOUR OF THE WORLD WIEGENLIED (Cradle Song— Mozart).; eee ||) In Quantity Orders Laws 10%, Plus Postage. Schools and ae Steinway and Lester pianos, band and orchestra instruments, talking machines, records and musicians' supplies. DAYNES MUSIC CO. We solicit your patronage Salt Lake City 1 "THE GOSPEL ——— from discourses and writings of President John Taylo "THE GOSPEL THROUGH THE AGES" Milton R. Hunter $1.30 "GOSPEL DOCTRINE" "TEACHINGS OF THE PROPHET JOSEPH SMITH" $2 25 $1.50 Joseph Fielding Smith.... "THE WAY TO PERFEC- $2.50 «9225 $2.25 TION" Joseph Fielding Smith DISCOURSES OF WILFORD WOODRUFF "GOSPEL STANDARDS" President Heber J. Grant BOOKS You'll Need for Reference Upon the following titles are based many important parts of the 1946-47 Relief Society Lesson Course: DESERET BOOK COMPANY THE BOOK CENTER OF THE INTERMOUNTAIN WEST "BRIGHAM YOUNG, THE MAN AND HIS WORK" Preston Nibley "ESSENTIALS IN CHURCH HISTORY" Joseph Fielding Smith "ARTICLES OF a Cc T,) James E Talmage "EVIDENCES AND RECONCILIATIONS" John A. Widtsoe... "DISCOURSES OF BRIGHAM YOUNG" "RESTORATION OF ALL THINGS" Joseph Fielding Smith... $2.50 $2.00 $1.25 $1.85 $2.50 $1.75 44 East South Temple P. O. Box 958 Salt Lake City 10, Utah When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine (Goss-Ray) _. Music for L. President Joseph F. Smith Enclosed is §$ Name = 15 S. Churches, AND Music for $2.50 Send the titles as checked above.. Address U. S. POSTAGE — -2¢ Paid SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH FOR YOUR DINNER TABLE NEXT WINTER SUGAR COMPA THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Monthly publication of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints RELIEF SOCIETY GENERAL BOARD Belle S. Spafford Marianne CV. Sharp Gertrude R. Garff Margaret C. Pickering - =. Peu, Leone G. L - President First Counselor Second Counselor Secretary-Treasurer Achsa E. Paxman Edith S. Elliott ayton Leone O. Jacobs Mary G. Judd Priscilla L. Evans Blanche B. Stoddard Velma N. Simonsen Luella N. Adams Florence J. Madsen Evon W. Peterson Isabel B. Callister Anna B. Hart Ann P. Nibley RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Editor - - - - - - - - Editorial Secretary - General Manager - - - 6 -: 4 Vol. 33 OCTOBER 1946 - Marianne C. Sharp Vesta P. Crawford Belle S. Spafford Ne. 10 Pioneer Preparations for Winter Three Natural Bridges of Utah Pioneer Stories and Incidents: Con tents SPECIAL FEATURES Ann P. Nibley 651 Willard Luce 657 A Stampede on the Plains Painted Weeds from Fairyland Golden Harvest President Amy Brown Lyman 668 Rosella F. Larkin 673 FICTION Beatrice Rordame Parsons 662 The Intruder Faith Is a Heritage—Chapter 7 Margery S. Stewart 674 Christie Lund Coles 680 Sallie-Start-Something Alice Whitson Norton 683 Sixty Years Ago ~ GENERAL FEATURES 670 Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon 67] Editorial: Notes From the Field Theology: Visiting Teachers' Messages: Work Meeting—Sewing: Literature: Social Science: Yesterdays—Frontispiece The Meaning of Autumn.... The Importance of Child Training Vesta P. Crawford 672 General Secretary-Treasurer, Margaret C. Pickering 685 Regulations Governing the Submittal of Material for ''Notes From the Field' LESSON DEPARTMENT The Educational System Developed 685 Courage Repentance POETRY Stitches and Seams Youthtime of a Nation Dedicated to Freedom Optional Lessons in Lieu of Literature: Elder H. Wayne Driggs 696 President Amy Brown Lyman 700 woooWork Meeting Committee 701 ane ereElder Howard R. Driggs 702 iElder T. Edgar Lyon 708 aSocial Science Committee 712 Beatrice K. Ekman 649 God Speed the Plow............ @ur Goa)....2...-.--.-n... Noeee Nothing Is Lost Crocheting..............-- Triolet............ Parade.. In Sibilant Regret...... Anonymous 656 Evelyn Fijeldsted 66] Grace Zenor Pratt 669 Dorothy J. Roberts 695 sevee--v---Merling Dennis Clyde 699... Grace M. Candland 717 Courtney Cottam 718 PUBLISHED MONTHLY BY THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY Editorial and Business Offices: 28 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City 1, Utah, Phone 3-2741. Ex. 243. Subscription Price: $1.00 a year; foreign, $1.00 a year; payable in advance. Single copy, 10c. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once. Giving both old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1193, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned unless reiurn postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts. MAGAZINE CIRCULATION, 77,500 THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE YESTERDAYS Beatrice K. Ekman I There are so many little ghosts that haunt my memory— The scent of lilacs after rain, leaves falling from a tree. Up from the lands of yesterday the little ghosts come, one by one; I bar my door but through the day into my thoughts they run. II I remember the golden autumn days In my valley far away, Where drifting shadows, through purple haze, On the mountains and brown fields lay. I remember the scarred peaks, sheer and tall, Reaching up from the timber line, And the maples flaming the creviced wall Of the canyon's steep incline. I remember the crimsoned inland sea When the sunset reddened the sky, And the stars that faded pallidly When the dawn came up likea cry.. Today, by an unfamiliar sea, I watch the returning tide, The hills of my valley are calling me While the rolling breakers ride. Ill You had been gone for a year and a day And I stood by your door alone; Long shadows over the garden lay; Overhead a pale star shone. Ivy shuttered, your window pane, The vines on the chimney stirred, And from the hedge in the narrow lane Came the lonely call of a bird. Only the silence answered me— A silence strange and new, Then out of my grief and longing My soul called out to you. And out of the dusk and silence, Certain as sound and flame, I knew that you stood beside me— I knew that you spoke my name. The Cover: "When the Work's All Done" From a Photograph by Willard Luce VOL. 33, NO. 10 OCTOBER 1946 —AVAR D FAIRBANKs the "Pioneer Mother" Monument in Vancouver, Pioneer Preparations for Winter Ann P. Nibley Member, Relief Society General Board HE pioneers of Utah were a thrifty, industrious, self-reliant, and ingenious people. For several years after their settlement in the Great Basin they were alone and isolated, far removed from the comforts and luxuries of civilization they: had previously known. When they came to the West, they had no other possessions than the small amounts of food and clothing which they carried in their battered and wom handcarts and wagons. Anything more than that, which would add to their sustenance and comfort, they had to produce and manufacture after their arrival, with the labor of their hands.. Living as they did in a country where the four seasons were definitely marked, each season called for its specific tasks. Spring was the time to plow and plant; summer was the season in which to irrigate the crops, destroy the weeds, and cultivate the soil; fall was harvest time, the time when the grains, fruits, and vegetables were gathered and stored; winter was the season when nature rested, and man took care of his possessions and waited until the everrecurring miracle of planting and reaping could again be repeated. The harvest season was the busiest time of the year for the pioneer family and, probably, the most challenging. With a realization of their isolated condition and remoteness from sources of supply, it was most important that they should conserve and preserve, for their use and sustenance, all products of garden, orchard, and farm. It was also necessary for them to provide and prepare warm clothing for winter use. From the earliest settlement of Utah and throughout the pioneer period, wheat appears to have been the principal crop, for from time immemorial, this staple grain has been considered "the staff of life." An effort was therefore made by each pioneer family to produce enough wheat each year to ensure an adequate supply of flour until the succeeding harvest. Threshing day on the farm was always interesting and satisfying. While the work was heavy for the men, the mother's task seemed the greatest of all. As Lavine Bennett has written in "Harvest Time in Pioneer Days:" The mother's task was great. With few conveniences, she would have to start days in advance to get her salt-risin' bread ready and enough baked to supply the threshers. The meals were prepared from food grown on the farm—home-cured pork, dried corn, squash, potatoes and dried apple pie for dessert. The threshers' breakfast consisted of mush and cream, ham or eggs and mutton chops and eggs, hot biscuits and molasses or fruit.... And some people served pie or cake: When tables were not long enough they had to be lengthened with lumber from the farm. Table cloths, if used, were supplied by the neighbors. When the signal was given that the meal was ready, the threshers would all line up at the kitchen door and wait their turn to wash their faces in a little tin wash basin that stood on the stump of a tree or a long wash Page 651 652 - y RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1946 bench near the kitchen door. When the meal was on the table, from four to six young ladies would be stationed around the table with long willow boughs to keep the flies away while the hungry threshers ate. Frequently, after dinner, the good housewives would invite the neighbors in for a piece of old-fashioned jelly cake, mince or squash pie, doughnuts or cider, and the evening would be spent in telling stories, singing, and dancing. Straw, the by-product of wheat, was also an important item, and its © use again showed the resourcefulness of the pioneers. After the threshing was over, newly washed bed ticks were filled with fresh, clean straw, and placed as a foundation for the feather beds which were made of feathers from geese, ducks, and chickens. Straw was also laid down under the cleaned rag carpets. It was used for making hats and brooms, for bedding down animals in the winter, and as a covering over vegetables in the pits to keep them from freezing. NY discussion of wheat and its importance brings to mind the great grain-saving project given to the Relief Society, in 1876, by President Brigham Young, the object of which was to store wheat for a time of need; and also the fact that for nearly seventy years a supply of hundreds of bushels of wheat has been carefully conserved and kept constantly available. In addition to their many household duties and responsibilities, pioneer Relief Society women not only collected wheat and funds for this cause, but they personally went into the fields after the harvest and gleaned to add to their wheat supply. Corn was another valuable crop in the early days. It was harvested in the fall and provided food for both men and animals. 'The husks and stalks were used for ordinary fuel as well as fuel for smoking fish, hams, and bacon. Corn husks were also used for filling mattresses. Many pounds of sweet corn were dried and enjoyed during the winter. Popcorn was also raised and carefully dried for use during the coming months. With the manufacture of molasses, it became a popular article and was soon well known in all the settlements. During the long winter evenings, great pans of this corn were popped on the kitchen range and, with the addition of molasses, delicious balls could be made which were especially welcome on birthdays or at Christmas time. Sugar was an extremely scarce article during pioneer times as it had to be brought from the Missouri River in wagons. When available, it sold as high as two dollars a pound. Many who craved sweets and were unable to obtain sugar, tried to satisfy their appetites by boiling down squash, carrots, and beets. Then came the raising — of sugar cane. This crop thrived well in the valleys and was harvested in the fall and made into molasses. Later, bees were raised and the honey was used for sweetening fruit, for making candy, as a spread for bread, and as an ingredient for cough medicine. Beeswax was also made from the honeycomb. A great variety of vegetables was raised by the pioneers as early as 1848, such as potatoes, squash, carrots, onions, cabbage, and beets. A good share of these was preserved for winter; some were stored in pits, PIONEER PREPARATIONS FOR WINTER while others were put away in the thrifty farmer's cellar. Beans and peas were dried and stored for winter, although some were reserved for planting, as were other seeds of vegetables, fruits, and flowers. Squaslr was dried out in the open air as-well as by hanging it from the rafters of the farmer's kitchen. Fruit trees were planted during the first few years after the arrival of the pioneers.. Apples, peaches, apricots, plums, cherries, grapes, and currants grew and yielded abundantly. As early as 1855, one writer noted that "Dr. Richards' house was half hidden by a splendid orchard and garden, while orchards and gardens lay behind and around the mansion of Brigham Young." Peach and apple time was one of the high lights of the harvest season, and apple-paring bees and peach-cutting bees were a worthwhile and fashionable pastime. On these occasions, the young people of the community would all "turn out" together and spend the day or evening cutting and spreading the precious fruit on boards under the trees or on the low roofs of houses or sheds to dry. "It was surprising how much could be accomplished and, except for some badly stained hands, they were none the worse for the work." Later in the evening, there was the serving of refreshments, and dancing to the music of, perhaps, a violin, French harp, harmonica or accordion. It was not uncommon, if it happened to be a moonlight night, for the young people to serenade on their way home. In preparation for winter, the industrious pioneer woman excelled in Gaunteny: The Children's Friend PIONEER CANDLE MOLD making jams, jellies, and preserves, both from orchard fruits and also from wild berries such as chokecherries, bullberries, and ground cherties which grew in abundance on low, bushy vines in fields and gardens. They also put up many kinds of pickles, made mincemeat, plum puddings, and Christmas cakes. Hops were gathered in the fall and laid by for the making of yeast and root beer, and herbs such as catnip, yarrow, and peppermint were gathered for the making of medicine. It was customary in the early days for every farmer to raise hogs. After the animals had been fattened with com in the fall, "hog killing" took place. From these, the women made head cheese and sausage, rendered lard, salted bacon, and cured hams. In some instances, meat was cured by being put in liquid brine. From scraps of fat they made soap. Cattle and sheep were killed occa- sionally in the community and the fresh meat was greatly enjoyed. Beef suet was prized for use in the making of plum puddings, which were made six and eight at a time and hung in the cellars until they were needed, to be steamed for some festive occasion. Beef suet was also used in the making of mincemeat. Mutton tallow was used for making candles and also for the making of salve for chapped hands. After the grain and the fruits and the vegetables had been harvested and stored for winter, it became a custom to celebrate the occasion by harvest festivals. It is interesting to note that the first of these festivals was held on the tenth of August, 1848: The season was one of scarcity, although there was no serious famine. The seagull miracle had happened a month or two before, and the settlers were truly grateful. This festival was a grand affair amid humble surroundings. A bowery in the center of the old fort had been erected, and underneath its beneficent shade, richly and bounteously laden tables were spread. There was bread, beef, butter, cheese, cakes, pastry, green corn, watermelons, and a great variety of vegetables. Parley P. Pratt describes it thus: "Large sheaves of wheat, rye, barley, oats, and other products were hoisted on poles for exhibition, and there were prayers and thanksgiving, congratulations, —_ songs, speeches, music, dancing, smiling faces, and merry hearts. In short, it was a great day with the people of these valleys, and to be remembered by those who had suffered and waited anxiously for the results of a first effort to redeem the interior deserts of America." (Laura Angell King, "Harvest Time in Pioneer Days," Daughters of the Utah Pioneers. ) FTER the harvest festival, the attention of the busy housewife was turned to the making of clothing, bed and table linen. Most of the sewing, knitting, and quilting was done in the winter months after the heavy fall work was completed. Wool was washed, carded, spun, and dyed by pioneer women, and the yarn used for the making of stockings, socks, and mittens. Wool was also used for the making of quilts, the weaving of linsey for dresses, and for wool sheets and blankets. I have heard my beloved grandmother, Temperance Ann Doney, tell of helping to shear the sheep, washing and spinning the wool, and making it into linsey cloth, of dyeing the yarns by means of roots and plants gathered from the fields. With these colored yarns, she made various shades and plaid materials with which she sewed dresses and suits to clothe herself and her five little girls, her husband, and her two sons. She also made and sold rag tugs and carpets. I have also heard my grandfather, Samuel R. Parkinson, relate how his wife made his suits for several years from buckskin which they had tanned themselves. Flax was raised successfully' in Utah in the early days and woven into linen. Many of the tablecloths, sheets, and towels, also much clothing used at that time, were made from this material. Underclothing and bed linen were made principally of unbleached muslin which was obtained from the local stores. The making of quilts was an important part of the pioneers' preparation for winter, and quilting bees were very popular, as they gave opportunity for recreation as well as work. Latter-day Saint women have been famous down through the years 654 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1946 PIONEER PREPARATIONS FOR WINTER be lll meee Courtesy, The Salt Lake Tribune 655 PIONEER SPINNING WHEEL for their beautiful quilt making and, today, their lovely quilts are among the most popular and sought-after articles sold at the Mormon Handi craft Gift Shop in Salt Lake City. Another important preparation for winter was wood hauling. On the day appointed for this enterprise, ox teams and horse and mule teams, attached to wagons and running gears, could be seen wending their way along the dusty roads to the canyons. In the evenings they would return with their logs. Sometimes this process was kept up for several days as wood must also be procured for the "meeting-house" and for the "widows of the ward." When all the necessary wood had been hauled, a "wood supper and dance' was held. What a feast this would be as the sisters brought steaming kettles and pans filled with meat and vegetables, chicken pies, "spicy pickles, preserves and shimmering jellies," doughnuts, and delicious cakes, and every appetizing food known to the group! It was then spread on long tables in the ward hall. After the dinner, the tables were cleared away "and soon was added to the sweet confusion of laughter and cheerful conversation, the merry strains of the violin and the strong, clear voice of the prompter directing the dancers through the mazes of quadnrilles, Scotch reels, French fours, and other figures of harmless dances suitable to the manner and religious character of the participants." The pioneers were socially united, and they made a great deal of their work in preparation for winter a pleasure. "Their common interests and problems made them unselfish and charitable. They shared and, in their kindness to one another, they found their greatest joy." They exchanged labor; neighbor helped neighbor in gathering and_ storing the crops; and they mingled together as one large family. The pioneers have left us many valuable lesson, but none greater than the lessons of thrift, resourcefulness, self-reliance, and ingenuity which enabled them to survive in the desert and found a prosperous empire. I acknowledge the courtesy of Kate B. Carter, President of the Daughters of the Utah Pioneers, for supplying part of the information in this article. _—- GOD SPEED THE PLOW (Inscribed on an Old Cup in Pioneer Exhibit) Let the wealthy and great Roll in splendor and state; I envy them not, I declare it. I eat my own lamb, My own chickens and ham; I shear my own fleece and I wear it. I have lawns, I have bowers, I have fruits, I have flowers; The lark is my morning alarmer. So jolly boys now Here's God speed the plow, Long life and success to the farmer. —Historical Pamphlet, October 1942, Compiled by Kate B. Carter. 656 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1946 Three Natural Bridges of Utah FACT AND LEGEND Willard Luce With photographs by the author T has been said by John Henry Cutler that anyone can be a sculptor. "All you have to do is to get a hunk of marble and throw away the pieces you don't want." This is exactly what Utah's most prolific sculptress, Mother Nature, has done. Only Mother Nature hasn't worked in marble alone; she has worked in granite, and limestone, 'in onyx and clay, and in sandstone. In the Natural Bridges National Monument, fifty-one miles west of Blanding in Southeastern Utah, her medium has been sandstone, and her principal tool has been running water. With it, she has built three bridges with walls varying from an estimated thirty to one hundred feet thick. If the combined openings were placed tagether, they would lack only thirteen feet from being as long as a Salt Lake City block, and, if placed one on top of another, would be one and one-half times as high as the State Capitol building. Water possesses one characteristic which makes it Mother Nature's greatest carving agent. Water is definitely gregarious by nature. As most of the water is found in the oceans of the world, all other water attempts to arrive there by the quickest and shortest routes possible. In only a very short time these routes become well defined, for water is not a sluggish traveler. In its rush, it carries dirt and boulders and trees for long distances. It is continually scooping at the soft places, wearing them deeper and wider and making them larger and more impressive. Sometimes water is not a wise. Traveler. Often it goes long distances only to be forced to circle back near the place it passed a short time before. As if impatient with its own weakness, it pushes at the intervening wall until, finally, the wall gives way and a short cut is made. Occasionally, such a short cut leaves the hard stone at the top intact, thus forming a bridge for the water to pass beneath. Thus it was that Mother Nature sculptured three beautiful bridges in the Natural Bridges National Monument. It has been sixty years since a white man first beheld these masterpieces carved in the long ago. In the 1880's, the prospector, Cass Hite, brought back the first recorded accounts of the bridges. It was in these same 1880's that the first cattlemen drifted their herds into the Dark Canyon country. Undoubtedly, many a puncher has thrown his bed roll beneath one of these bridges after a hard day's ride, thankful for its shelter, but little concerned with the natural wonder above him. Most cowboys live in a world of natural wonders and accept them, without question and without awe, as part of their environment. It was not until 1908 that the bridges became sufficiently well known to be set aside as a natural Page 657 OWACHOMO (EDWIN) BRIDGE This bridge is the best known of Southeastern Utah's three great bridges in the White Canyon area. The Owachomo Bridge is in Armstrong Canyon, a tributary of White Canyon. The arch is 200 feet across and the height is 108 feet. Monument. According to the United States Park Service, a national monument is set aside primarily for educational purposes. 'The natural bridges are one of the best examples of water erosion in sandstone. For vears, however, it was quite a job becoming educated in this particular style of water erosion. It was a fiveday horseback trip in those days, and not such an easy five days at that. Despite this, the number of visitors increased until, in 1928, twenty years later, a road was extended from Blanding to the first bridge. HIS is the Owachomo Bridge, which is still locally known as the Edwin Bridge. It is the best known of the three, partly because of postcard sales, but principally because many American tourists insist on driving up to their scenery in ease and comfort. The Owachomo Bridge has a thickness of ten feet and a span of 200 feet. It rises 108 feet above the floor of Armstrong Canyon. The name Owachomo is a Hopi Indian word. It means "flat-rock mound." It is given to the bridge because of a near-by promontory which very well fits the word, "Owachomo." Three miles down Armstrong Canyon is Kachina Bridge which is more often called Caroline Bridge by the local people. Although the opening here is relatively small compared © with the other two bridges, the overhanging rock measures 107 feet through at the narrowest place, just twenty-seven feet thicker than the 658 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1946 THREE NATURAL BRIDGES OF UTAH Latter-day Saint Tabernacle in Salt Lake City is tall. The span of the bridge is 186 feet, and the height of the opening, ninety-eight feet. This bridge was named from the Hopi word meaning "sacred dance," because of the dance symbols found carved on the bridge. The last bridge, the Sipapu_ or Augusta Bridge, has the largest opening and is the most impressive and most beautiful of the three. There are 222 feet between the bottom of the arching stone and the canyon floor, and 261 feet from one canyon wall to the next. Two Salt Lake Tabernacles could be placed, one on top of the other, within this space, with eleven feet to spare on the sides and sixty-two feet overhead. The 659 space lacks just six inches of being as tall as the Latter-day Saint Temple and the Angel Moroni in Salt Lake City. The name Sipapu is also taken from the Hopi Indian language. It means, "the gateway through which the souls of men come from the underworld and return to it." There is a Hopi legend concerning this bridge which tells that, at one time, all the souls of men were locked within the earth. When the animals heard about this, they decided to release them. The coyote took his turn first at digging. Following him, one after another, the different animals took their turns digging deeper and enlarging the opening. Last was the badger, who finally SIPAPU (AUGUSTA) BRIDGE This bridge, in White Canyon, sometimes called the world's most beautiful natural bridge, arches 222 feet above the canyon and has a span of 261 feet. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1946 " wor ' Pa MRL MOTI I. KACHINA (CAROLINE) BRIDGE The massive Kachina Bridge, in Armstrong Canyon, has an arch 107 feet thick and a span of 186 feet THREE NATURAL BRIDGES OF UTAH completed the opening and released the souls of men. 'Their release, however, was only probationary; for once the earth was finished with them, they had to return through this same opening. So maybe it wasn't Mother Nature at all who did the sculpturing. Neither the animals nor Mother Nature signed their names as some sculptors do to their works of art. True, a few vain sight-seers have signed theirs, trying to claim the glory. But this is a foolish gesture, for the United States Park Service knows 661 full well that no mere man did the job. Many of those trying to claim the glory have had to make an extra trip just to remove their signatures. Trying to claim the sculptorship of a monument is a serious offense in the eyes of the Government. But, regardless of whether it was the animals or Mother Nature who created the natural bridges, they are there, beautiful in line and color, awe-inspiring in size. A gorgeous sight to see on your next tmp into San Juan County, the chasm-land of the Southwest. OUR GOAL Evelyn Fjeldsted Would we be like the stones that lie Against a quiet, nameless hill, Where spring skies bend to measure rain But only sand dunes move at will? If we were all inanimate, The storms of life, so ominous, Would be unknown. Oblivious peace And silent depths would shelter us; But then we would not see the light, The hope-filled promise of each day, Nor could we search for priceless truth That blesses with its every ray. The builders once rejected stone; No rock shall be our shining goal. We must have faith until the truth From all earth's discord frees the soul. Golden Harvest Beatrice Rordame Parsons HERE was a picture of a farm on the billboard. There were big, white horses, sleek, brown cows, and baby chicks as yellow as butter. Bumpty had seen it a hundred times, but his blue eyes were wide and his four-year-old body was tense with excitement. "What does it say, Aunt Pamela? Read it to me, please!" Pamela had read it over and over. She did not have to lift her eyes to the sign. Monotonously, she tepeated: "Be a good American. Help harvest the crops. America must feed the world. Spend your vacation at Byde-A-Wyle Farm." It was signed, "Dale Saunders, Owner." Bumpty jiggled eagerly. "Are we good 'mericans, Pam? Does it mean us?" Pam nodded carelessly, then hurried to explain: "It means everybody, not just us." Under her breath she added: "But definitely not little Pamela Farrington and her nephew, Stephen David, alias 'Bumpty' Wright." Pamela had no idea of burying herself in the country, being nineteen and a stenographer in a busy office. What was the use? Bumpty couldn't seem to understand that a girl needed to have fun every minute of her vacation. Bert, and the rest of her crowd, had planned so many exciting days at the beach, in the canvons... "You promised!" cried Bumpty, accusingly, Page 662 Pamela sighed. Bumpty seemed to find a promise in everything she said. When she had promised her sister that she would take care of Bumpty while Nan went to a distant city to care for a relative who was ill, Pamela hadn't dreamed that the job would be so trying. She had told herself that with her landlady, Mrs. Hudsen, to look after Bumpty on occasions, her vacation wouldn't be interrupted. And she wasn't going to have it interrupted by a trip to the country, anyway. She just had to make Bumpty understand. "T don't like the country, darling. It's too far away. And there are bugs, and worms, and..." "T like worms," said Bumpty, cheerfully. "I like bugs, too." Pamela threw up her hands in despair. "Oh, Bumpty, I just can't go off to the country like that! I've got to think about it." She had thought about it and the answer was No! "Anyway, I just said..." "You'd take me to the country," finished Bumpty with a wail. Pamela was glad they were passing an ice-cream shop. A cone changed the subject. Bumpty didn't mention the farm again. Well, she'd escaped that easily enough. Now for Bert and the crowd. Mrs. Hudsen had promised to sit 'with Bumpty while he was asleep. She kissed him as she tucked him into bed. He closed his eyes and his dark lashes made tiny shadows on his cheeks. His mouth was soft and smiling. GOLDEN HARVEST "We're going to the country in the morning," he said. PAMELA felt like snatching him up and spanking him. Instead, she tucked him gently into his blanket and decided that she loved him very much. But not enough to take him to the country! When she got to the drugstore on the corner where Bert and the crowd were waiting, she told him about Bumpty and the farm. He threw back his head and roared. "What could you do on a farm, Pam? You don't know a tractor from a plow. A typewriter's more your speed." Everyone laughed. Pamela joined in, but her laughter sounded hollow. Why did they all think her such a dumb bunny? "Or, maybe," continued Bert slyly, "you could use those little curlicues you put on paper to dig spuds with!" Again everybody laughed. Her small, red mouth looked a little stubborn. "I could learn." Bert tried to tease her. "Oh, girls, just look at that horrid grasshopper!" Bert was quite a clown. Usually she enjoyed his clowning. But not this time. She might be afraid of bugs and things but she wasn't a baby. Almost without thinking, she slipped from her stool. "Sorry, to break up your evening, Bert, but Pam's got to get home and pack. If you miss me just drop me a card at Byde-A-Wyle Farm. Bumpty and I are off bright and early in the morning." Even though she had said it— even though she had gone home to toss things into a suitcase—Pamela couldn't quite believe that it was she and her nephew who rode the 663 bus to the Growers' Market, and hailed a ride in a Byde-A-Wyle truck. As the elderly driver stowed her bag, she muttered under her breath, "Why, I must be crazy! ['m not even sure they'll let me in, and as for Bumpty...." The driver's eyes twinkled under his graying brows as he lifted the little fellow into the high cab. "They'll let you in," he assured her comfortably, "and glad to have you. As for Bumpty, Grandie likes little boys and there's plenty of room." He got in beside them, and added gravely: "As for being crazy, you're just being sensible. If everyone would help a little it wouldn't be so hard." Pamela colored and hid her face while she wiped an imaginary speck of dirt from Bumpty's cheek. She hadn't really come to help. She had just wanted. To prove that being 'a stenographer didn't put her in class "D" for dumbbells. "Is your farm nice, Mr. Byde-AWyle?" asked Bumpty eagerly, as the truck rolled slowly along the highway. The driver laughed. "My name's Aaron Jones. I work for Dale." He told her how Grandie had managed the farm while Dale was in the matines, and about the bumper crop he had raised since he had come home. "The neighbors help when they can, and students from the high schools drop around when there aren't any classes. But they'll be glad you've come. No one else is there right now except Miss Nina Creighton, Dale's fiancee." They had left the highway now and were traveling along a lane edged with apple trees, heavy with russet 664 fruit. Aaron brought the truck to a halt before a white picket gate. "Welcome to Byde-A-Wyle!" he announced. The farm was so big it frightened Pamela. Acres and acres of growing things stretched across the valley towards the purple hills. While Aaron lifted Bumpty down and went to get the suitcase, Pamela looked about her. The house was tall and square, with an old-fashioned dignity in its sturdy lines that told of strength and firmness. There were flaming asters and zinnias along the fences, and a green lawn made a thick carpet on each side of the graveled walk. In the west field a new building was under' construction. Pamela eyed it curiously. It was dug deep into the earth and had a queer, rounded roof, with vents in it. The doors were at either end and wide enough for two trucks to pass in and out. Aaron saw her baffled look and grinned. "It's a root cellar, Miss Pamela, a place for storing root vegetables." He grinned. "When it's finished, Grandie's going to give a party. Well lay smooth boards over the dirt floor and bring in autumn leaves and fall flowers. There'll be colored lanterns and a long table across one end for refreshments. There'll be square dances..." He broke off, giving her an intent look. "Ever been to a regular country shindig, Miss Pamela?"; Pamela was glad to confess, "What I don't know about farms would fill a five-foot bookshelf!" She realized suddenly that she had no business at Byde-A-Wyle farm. She was... Why, she was an imposter! She couldn't really be of RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1946 help. She turned to ask Aaron to take her back to town, and found the truck lumbering off toward one of the fields. Aaron smiled and waved to Bumpty, who was already inside the white picket gate. Pamela ran after him in panic. She had to get away before Dale and his grandmother learned what a fraud she was. She caught Bumpty's hand. "Darling, we've got to go right back!" "But you've only just come," objected a hearty masculine voice, and Pamela looked up to find a tall, young man and a beautiful, blond young woman coming towards her. Behind, followed an old woman with silvery hair and smile-wrinkles about the keenest brown eyes into which Pamela had ever looked. She knew she was Grandie before she spoke. "We're tickled to have you," said Mrs. Saunders hospitably. She introduced her grandson and _ his fiancee, and added pleasantly: "Aaron said you were afraid you wouldn't be much help. But don't worry. If you're willing to learn, everything will be all right." She held out her hand to Bumpty and asked, "Would you like to help me feed the hens?" And to her grandson, she added, ""T'ake Pamela's bag upstairs, Dale, and bring the. Old crib down from the attic." PAMELA felt breathless and happy and excited as she followed Dale and Nina up the stairs and into the small bedroom with dormer windows framed in crisp, white curtains. While Dale went for the crib, Nina spoke disdainfully. "That crib's been in the family for generations. I tell Dale he's in GOLDEN HARVEST a rut. If he doesn't soon get away, he'll be here for generations, too." All of a sudden, Pamela knew that she had fallen in love with Byde-AWyle farm. Her smile was shy, yet truthful. "T should think it was a very nice place to be in a rut in," she said quietly. Nina frowned and wrinkled her nose. "That's because you've only just come. You'll find that its lonesome, and far away from town. I like bright, new, shiny things. When Dale and I are married, we're going to take a cute, modern apartment as near the business district. As possible." When she had gone, Pamela found herself thinking of Dale in a bright, shiny, new apartment, and somehow she felt sorry for him. Three days later she felt sorry for herself! She ached in muscles she hadn't known existed. She crawled into bed each night wondering if she would be able to move in the morning. But the old rooster who brought the sun shining over the tops of the eastern mountains called her to the fields. Dale taught her many things about farming. He talked of his dreams and ambitions for the farm, and she saw love for his land shining from his clear, brown eyes. She came to know, too, how it pained him to think of leaving it. But he was loyal to Nina. "She was brought up in the city. It wouldn't be fair to ask her to make a home here. She'd be so unhappy," he explained. Pamela wanted to remind him that he'd been brought up on a farm, that he would be miserable in town. But she pressed her lips tight- 665 ly together and told herself that it was none of her business. Why, just a few days ago she hadn't liked farms, either! Time went so fast that, suddenly, Pamela was surprised to find that her vacation was almost over. Great mounds of the root vegetables were ready for storing, and Grandie had set the date of her party for Saturday. Pamela and Bumpty would ride into town with one of the trucks on Monday morning. Pamela felt sad when she thought of leaving. She was going to miss Byde-A-Wyle, Aaron, Grandie, and Dale. She knew, with a queer little twist in her heart, that she was going to miss Dale more than anyone else. But she wouldn't let her thoughts dwell on that. Early Saturday morning, several neighbors invaded Grandie's bright kitchen to help with the party preparations. There were cakes to bake and pies to fill. There were heaping platters of sandwiches to be prepared, for the entire countryside had been invited. ALE and Bumpty turmed the huge ice-cream freezer on the back porch, then packed it with salt and ice, and went gaily off to finish decorating the root cellar. Late in the afternoon, during a lull, Pamela brought her best white-embroidery frock into the cool kitchen to press, while Grandie filled platters with spicy cookies just out of the oven. Nina, dressed for the street, came into the room and eyed Pamela's pressing with scornful glances. "You don't really mean, Pam, to dance with those country bumpkins! It would bore me to tears. I've asked 666 Dale to take me to town for the opening of the Artistic Club. Pamela shot her a quick glance to be silent, but Grandie had heard; and her face turned a little white. Pamela protested in an indignant whisper. "You can't do that. Grandie's planning on Dale to help with the patty." Grandie's voice came gently. "Tf Dale would rathet. Go to town, Pamela, it's all right with me." But in spite of her brave words, Pamela caught the tremor in her voice. She watched Grandie take a covered plate of cookies into the pantry before she spoke. "Nina, you can't..." Nina interrupted sharply, "Now don't you butt in. Dale and I've just had a quarrel about it." She pulled on her gloves. "I've told him I'm going into town to have my hair and nails done. If he doesn't come in to take me to the club, I'll... I)... Well, Il break our engagement." Pamela stared at her unbelievingly. "But that's not fair. Dale loves you. He also loves Grandie. You can't make him choose between you." Nina laughed: jeeringly. "Can't I? Well, we'll see! It's about time he made up his mind about Grandie and this old farm." Pamela's lips were stiff. "Don't you know that he's already made it up, Nina? Dale loves this farm. He hopes you'll love it, too." "Love it," cried Nina, her lips curling, "I hate it! If marrying Dale means I've got to stay here, then I won't marry him." She looked at Pamela, her eyes flashing with anger. "Why are you standing up for him, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1946 and Grandie and the farm? Is it because you want to stay here with him?" Her laughter was cutting. "Oh, Pam, I know it, if you don't. You've fallen in love with him." Pamela's face was white. "No, no!" she protested, but even as she said it, she knew that Nina was right. Nina saw the truth in her clear eyes. Her own flickered angrily. "But," she said thinly, "I don't think it's going to do you any good. I think I know Dale. He'll come into town." She smiled confidently as she went through the door. Pamela stared after her, while the iron burned the ironing board cover. She didn't look up until Grandie set the iron back on the rack. 'Then Grandie put her arm about Pamela and held her close for a moment. "T couldn't help hearing," she said quietly. "We both love Dale, but there's nothing we can do. He's a man. He must make his own decisions." She drew Pamela's dress from the board and put it in her hands. "Remember, dear, we're having a patty. We musn't let anything spoil it. Not even our own feelings." "Not even our own feelings!"' Pamela wanted to cry out. She wanted to say: I can't laugh and dance and smile while my heart is aching. But she didn't speak. Grandie was depending on her. She went slowly upstairs. An hour later she saw Dale take the car and head for town. Her entire body felt frozen, and when she dressed, her fingers were stiff and awkward. BUMPTY, who had pleaded to be allowed to go to the party, jiggled excitedly between Grandie, GOLDEN HARVEST in her best gtay silk dress, and Pamela, in her white one, as they entered the root cellar. It was a bower of colored lanterns, fal] flowers, and autumn leaves, Bumpty's smal] chest swelled with pride. "Me and Dale did it. We fixed everything, Aaron helped." He skipped happily towards the loaded tefreshment table and cried: "Aunt Pam, I'm going to eat all the cake and cookies and ice cream | But for all his fine words, Pamela found him a Short time later, fast asleep, a huge dish of ice cream melting at his side. She smiled as she Picked him up and carried him to his room. He smiled sleepily as she undressed him, and said, "I'm glad we came to the country! Pamela wasn't glad. She almost wished she were back in the drug. Store with Bert and her crowd. If she hadn't come to Byde-A-Wyle her heart wouldn't have felt so big_ and empty in her breast. She was crossing the cornfield, when she heard Dale's voice. "Pam! Pamela!" Tt was a minute before she realized that he was coming towards parked his car, her side she tried was a little unsure. "Surely the Artistry Club isn't closed so early." She could see his face under the huge, silver harvest moon which had climbed into the sky. It was so stern it frightened her. "I didn't go to the club. I went 667 to ask Nina to come back to the Party." He paused and said harshly: "She isn't coming back, Pam. She isn't ever coming back to Byde-AWyle." Pam put a comforting hand on his arm, "Oh, Dale, I'm 50 sorry!" He turned so that she could see his eyes, They were free from anger and disappointment, and were clear and bright. "Don't be. I'm not. Not really." His voice was very low. "I think l've known for a long time that Nina and I could never be happy. It couldn't have been a real mar. Tiage, Pani." Suddenly, he put his hands on her slim shoulders and turned her so throat. "Tt's been a golden harvest, Pam," — he said softly, "the first of many to come, en a man Matties, he needs a wife who loves the land as he does. Someday..." His voice Was so low she had to bend to hear it, "Someday, I'll tell you more about It." His eyes held a promise that stirred her heart. Then he smiled. "Now we must go back to the party. I want Grandie to know I'm back." Walking slowly beside him towards the light and laughter, Pamela smiled through the stars which had become lighted in the depths of her eyes, "If it hadn't been for Bumpty," she said whimsically, trying to hide the happiness in her heart, "I might never have come to Byde-A-Wyle at all." As though the thought were something he could not bear to imagine, he swept her into his arms and out into the middle of the dancers. Pioneer Stories and Incidents A STAMPEDE ON THE PLAINS President Amy Brown Lyman (This is the fourth in a series of true pioneer incidents to be published by The Relief Society Magazine in honor of the 1947 Utah Centennial celebration—Ed. ) RESIDENT EMMELINE B. WELLS often remarked that one of the most terrifying experiences of her life was witnessing a stampede of animals which occurred on the plains in the company of Bishop Newel K. Whitney, in the fall of 1848. It appears that animals as well as people, often, on those long journeys, suffered from fear and anxiety, as well as from thirst, hunger, and fatigue. As Sister Wells related the incident, which she always made vivid and dramatic, the trouble followed a long and weary day of travel. After camp had been made and supper and devotions were over, the company, foregoing the usual recreational activities, had retired early and were sleeping soundly. As was the custom of the pioneers, the wagons had been formed into a sort of circular or oval corral with the tongues pointing outside, and with a front wheel of each wagon locked in a rear wheel of the wagon ahead. Two openings or exits had been left opposite each other and a guard stationed at each of them. In this enclosure the animals were held for safety. Just before daybreak, there was a terrible commotion among the animals. For some unknown reason they had become disturbed and were soon unmanageable, despite all efforts to control them. They rushed Page 668 about, the oxen and cows bellowing and snorting as if they were mad— horses, oxen, steers, and cows all mixed up together. The noise and confusion and stamping of feet were so great that the very ground seemed to shake. The frightened animals jammed against one another and against the wagons, causing damage to both. Women and children were frightened into a panic, many screaming and crying, and some fainting. Final ly, the animals broke through the openings and rushed out into the — open prairie. Fortunately, several horses were caught and, upon these, men leaped and followed the herd. As the confusion subsided in camp and the immediate danger seemed to be over, new worries and anxieties developed. It was discovered that two children were missing, that one man had sustained a broken leg, and that another had been knocked down and lay unconscious a short distance away. Then there began to be anxiety and fear regarding the safety of the camp, left as it now was in the vast, lonely wilderness; and, added to this, there was great concern regarding the safety of the animals and the men who had followed them. It was feared, at first, that perhaps the two children, running away from the terrifying scene had en- PIONEER STORIES AND INCIDENTS countered other dangers; but they were finally located, hidden deep down in a wagon box under a feather bed and other covers, where they had almost smothered. Like horses frightened at a fire, it was hard to induce them to come out to safety. It was not until late afternoon and many miles away, that the frightened and excited animals were finally brought under control, and returned 669 to camp. Several had been injured, and all of them were so nervous and exhausted that they had to be carefully cared for and comforted throughout the following night. None, however, was lost. The two injured men were properly cared for; the necessary repairs about the camp were made; and, on the second morning after this trying experience, the journey was once more resumed. <> NOTHING IS LOST Grace Zenor Pratt This eye for beauty, this rare thought expressed, This silver song to touch the hearts of men, Were not evolved by you; nor you, alone, Could have become proficient in an art Had not your fathers loved and cherished all these things. The gift came down by easy steps, and slow, From time's mysterious past— Until to you it is a pr That men now pause The shining words. But have you though ecious charge, so rare to listen and to heed t of those who came before, Who labored and desired; who failed and tried again, With faith and pain and tears? They deemed their task unworthy, knowing not In you their rich achievement is fulfilled, The perfect plan By which God works; nothing is lost and Nothing thrown away. Then he who thinks that genius is but chance Is all mistaken; that little light which grows So slowly from desire and effort, too, May some day blaze into a flaming torch To light a world with beauty and with song. OMEN OF Arr Nations" DREAMS OF THE NIGHT Dreams, sad dreams, why do you come From that far-off land, my childhood's home, Bringing the voices and forms of the past, I thought I'd forgotten at last, at last? Oh, may we hope that the future holds Something to gather the Scattered folds, To mend the links of the broker chain, And bring back heart to heart again. Welcomed by President Peterson and family.... NM. W. Snow. Such meetings are like a foretaste of futurity. They afford us a dim glimpse of that which may be when we reach "that other shore," where our loved ones are waiting. Principles of their religion, and Providing them with good books, and making home Pleasant and happy.... Sister M. W. Snow... Spoke of the great responsibility Testing upon the teachers, and exhorted them to be humble and prayerful, that they might be Woman's Sphere Romana W. Cannon THREE Utah poets—all contributors to The Relief Society Magazine—have recently won national or local prizes. Mrs. Blanche Kendall McKey, now a resident of Washington, D. C., received the prize offered by the National League of American Pen Women for her short drama, The Unuttered Heart. Mrs. McKey attended the authors' breakfast at the biennial convention of the League, held in Washington, D. C. At this function, Myrtle McKay of Dallas, Texas, read Mrs. McKey's prize work entirely from memory. The many brilliant women wniters present regarded Mrs. McKey's poetical drama as a triumph. Mrs. Venita Nielsen of Logan, Utah, won first prize for poetry in the national contest sponsored by the Federated Women's Clubs of America. At the annual Writer's Roundup held in Price, Utah, Mrs. Margery S. Stewart won the poetry prize for her timely and significant contribution "The Great Hunter." KING GEORGE VI of England has presented "His Majesty's medal for service in the cause of freedom" to Mrs. Burton W. Musser of Salt Lake City, war-time head of Utah's "Bundles for Britain" organization, and to four Ogden women: Mrs. Frederich Berrill, Miss Margaret Corless, Mrs. J. H. Rosevear, and Mrs. S. Reed, for outstanding services rendered. Kee e ey) AMONG the students at the Utah State Agricultural College in Logan are two lovely young women from Iran, Mrs. Turan Ahai and her sister, Miss Vida Khazai. They are working in home economics, and expect to carry back to their native country modern American shortcuts in homemaking. T this time of the year, out thoughts are prone to turn back through the years to the pioneer men and women who endowed America with her noble heritage. Among them was Anne Hutchinson, a Rhode Island woman of genuine courage. She was one of the most intelligent women in the Colonies, and bold enough to stand for religious tolerance. For this crime she was condemned by a court of forty intolerant citizens to banishment. She and her numerous family fled to unsettled Western New York, where all of the family, except one child, Susanna, were massacred by the Indians. That Susanna survived is a fact for which Latter-day Saints may well be grateful, for the gifted Parley P. And Orson Pratt and their large and talented progeny are direct descendants from Anne Hutchinson. MiSs DOROTHY SHAVER has been elected to head the vast business concern of Lord and Taylor, New York City's famous Fifth Avenue shop, a $30,000,000 retail corporation. Page 671 Q- > EDITORIAL c~O VOL. 33 OCTOBER 1946 NO. 10 She leaning of Autumn To everything there is a season, and a time to every purpose under the heaven... A time to plant and a time to pluck up that which is planted (Eccles. 3:1-2). NEW seasons come as a fulfillment of natural law, the law that God has made in the universe, and there is a feeling of security, content-. Ment, and well-being in the return of autumn. It is fitting that we recognize with gratitude the blessings that come in this season. Our Heavenly Father "hath made everything beautiful in his time." The mosaic of autumn flowers, the stubble field, the bins of yellow wheat, the rich color of the leaf pattems— all the evidences of autumn are beautiful and significant beyond their outward appearances. Harvest time and the gathering and the reaping mean that our labors have been rewarded once mote, that the ancient promise of the earth has again been fulfilled. The autumn season, then, should bring to us the realization that where abundance and plenty are found, that land is blessed. And yet, as the world is now organized, there is still not enough food for all who need it. Many must go hungry. For this reason there should be no waste of any kind. Those who have produced food must see that it is properly stored against a time of need; and that which is produced beyond the needs of each family, should be made available to others. Many people who wish to share their abundance find the problems Page 672 of distribution difficult, and they are at a loss to know how they can help the needy. Among the Latter-day Saints the problems of supply and distribution for the temporal welfare of the people are being met by the Church Welfare Program. All who participate fully in this Plan are forwarding the production and distribution of food and other necessities of life. Through this effective and far-reaching plan of the Lord, individuals may fulfill their desire to be of help to others. The feeling of satisfaction which comes from activity in the Welfare Program is of great value because it gives each participant a feeling of adequacy and strength, the result of being united with others in a great cause. Even as autumn is a time of reaping and gathering in of the fruits of the field, a time for being our "brother's keeper," it is also a time for the weighing of spiritual values. As the farmer counts his sacks of grain and measures the yield of his harvest, so should each individual appraise that which has been added to enrich and magnify his personality. Life is a process of reaping the results of past efforts. It is also a process of continual beginning again. Each day is, in itself, both seedtime and harvest. V. P. C. MRS. JOHN W. STAHR AND HER DISPLAY OF PAINTED WEEDS Painted Weeds from Fairyland Rosella F. Larkin President, Twelfth Ward Relief Society, Mount Ogden Stake, Utah GLIMPSE into fairyland was enjoyed by more than two hundred friends who recently called on Mrs. John W. Stahr at her home on Twenty-seventh Street, Ogden, Utah. The oceasion was the fifth "painted weed' display of this unusual artist. A few years ago, while Mrs. Stahr was taking long rides out-of-doors to regain her health, she found beauty everywhere, in grass, wild flowers, and even in so-called weeds, and, visualizing the added effect which colors would lend to the beauty of their arrangement, this artistic lady proceeded to apply bright-colored paints to make their beauty carry over into the drab months and drab moments of life. Milkweed pods take on a new aspect when tinted blue and pink; hollyhocks stand tall in a gorgeous variety of brilliant, colored blossoms. Pastel-colored vases hold graceful fans of June grass. Other containers hold goldenrod, sagebrush, sunflowers, yarrow, thistle, cocklebur, pigweed, alfalfa, catnip weed, dill, arnica, verbena, wild mint, and greasewood, The flower display includes hydrangeas, black-eyed Susans and lilac seeds. Grains, such as wheat and oats, make attractive arrangements. In this picture, Mrs. Stahr stands amid her fairyland, holding in her hand a pink clay pot containing a bush holding a bird's nest made of brown cockleburs, and a bluebird molded in clay. This is her special "happiness" gift to her friends. She has found the great secret: Find your happiness in whatever you do, Wherever you are, with whatever you have. It is the only happiness you will ever know. Mrs. Stahr is an active Relief Society worker in the Twenty-fourth Ward, Mount Ogden Stake, Utah. Page 673 The Intruder Margery S. Stewart HE telephone Tang just as Carol was coming downstairs. With a wondering look at the hall clock, she went to answer it. It was Naida, more breathless than usual, "Carol, darling, I know it's practically the break of day, but Mabel Corless told me she saw you up at Doctor Thorpe's office and I just couldn't wait to find out What..." Carol chuckled. Have a baby." "A baby!" Naida's shriek made Carol hold the Phone away from her ear. "A baby! Good heavens! Why, you're thirty-six." "You make it sound ninety." "T didn't mean to, darling. But... But our children are grown up. You just can't start all over again. Have you told Danny and Joyce? Does Big Dan know?" Carol hesitated. "No.. Not yet." "Oh, I pity you when they do. They just 'die. Children these days are so unhappy about things like that. When Jean was having hers, Johnny and Doris just moped around, and do they moan about tending the baby, now it's here." Carol said swiftly, "But of course it will be different with us; Joyce loves babies, that is, she did." "Well, I hope she still does.. For your sake. Honestly, the things that happen to people." Carol cried out. "Oh, no. A wonderful, beautiful thing." "You always were a little odd about things like that, Carol. I never could Page 674 "I'm going to It's understand you... Well, I'll see YOR sa Carol replaced the Phone slowly. She found she was trembling. People seemed to be changing so much: It frightened her. She could remember the time when a baby, the first or the tenth, was the signal for rejoicing on every hand. She heard Joyce moving about upstairs and went hastily to the kitchen to stir up a batter for hot cakes. Perhaps she could tell her family at breakfast, Joyce burst into the kitchen, her school books under one arm, her sweater revealing tender curves, and her mouth petulant, "Mother, for pity's sake. You didn't take down that hem. Now I've got to wear this thing, and Celia wanted me to wear my blue." Carol's mouth quirked, noticing how the soft pink wool brought out the vivid coloring of Joyce's blue eyes and black hair. She smiled at her daughter. "I'm sorry, but I've not been feeling well. Went to the doctor and do you know what he said?" But Joyce was not listening. "Hot cakes? Ummm! Make mine about six and I'll study history while I'm eating." She opened her book and a paper fell out. Carol picked it up and smiled on the little penciled animals that frolicked over the page. "You really have a gift, Child." Joyce flicked the page with a scornful hand. "They're comy, J used to think I could be an artist, THE INTRUDER | but Celia pointed out just how poor Iam." She lifted her head and annoyance drew down the comers of her mouth. "Here comes Danny Junior. I wish he'd get the grease out from under his nails and leave those horrible engines of his alone." Danny galloped into the kitchen. "Oh, is that so, Joyce? Well, 'm not going to leave engines alone just because you want me to look pretty for your gitl friends. Those nauseating gleeps you call gitl friends.. - - I'm going to be an inventor. Ummm, hot cakes! Gimme about twelve." AROL brought the hot cakes and the milk. She curled her hands in her apron and, suddenly, her heart was pounding thunderously, "Do you like babies?" That wasn't what she had meant to say at all. "Little new ones," she added hastily. "Babies?" Joyce reached for the syrup. "Good grief, no! That new neighbor wanted me to tend hers, and did I give her to understand I was not interested! Celia says babies are messy little things." She waved her spoon largely, "None for me, ever." "Toyce!" Carol stared unbelievingly. "Suppose I'd felt that way before you were born?" Joyce shrugged. "You've always peen mad about babies. I'm not." "Babies?" echoed Danny. De considered. "I used to want a baby in the family when I was a kid, before I got to be sixteen and had some sense. But, gosh, I never even look at them now. Nope. Can't be bothered. Say, Mom, do you suppose you could persuade Dad to buy me that jalopy of Paul's? I could make twenty bucks, fixing it up." "Py ask him," said Carol. She protectiveness shook her. 675 went back to the range. She poured more batter onto the skillet. She was surprised at the shaking of her hands because, inside, she was SO still and quiet. She had been wrong, so terribly wrong, all the years she had felt, smugly, that she was being a wonderful mother. She looked at her children as a stranget might look at them, at Joyce, beautiful and selfish, at Danny, sixteen and strong and intelligent and beginning to be ruthless. I have given them a great deal, she thought, and missed the important things. Everything for the welfare of their minds and their bodies, and nothing to make their hearts beautiful or their souls grow. Then, at the thought of the baby, she decided, I'm being given a new chance with this baby. A fierce Her home should be a fortress against the fallacies, and the vicious creeds and the hatreds and ignorance of the world. She would make it so and keep it that way. Somehow, someway, she would find the way to make het family greet this new member with the proper love and tenderness. She watched Joyce apply a thick layer of lipstick, but this time she did not remonstrate, instead, she laid her hand tenderly on her daughter's cheek. Joyce smiled. "Hi, Mom! Well, I'm off. Yipes, listen to Dad on the state of the bathroom!" Danny flushed guiltily and rose. "] forgot again. Plead my case, Mom. I gotta go." Carol waited for Dan and thought, I'm glad we'll be alone. I'll tell him and it will be like it used to be, warmth and friendliness and love. Dan stormed down the stairs. "If that boy doesn't learn to wipe up 676 the bathroom floor!" He gave Carol a quick peck. "Feeling better, Pet? That's fine. I'm hoping you'll be in top form before the Wentworths get here. I'm counting on one of your good dinners to swing the account my way." Carol flipped the hot cake over. "Suppose I can't entertain them, Dan?" Dan picked up his paper. "Don't make jokes, my dear. With the way prices have gone up we're going to need a lot more money. I want a new car... And some tps... I'd like to buy you a new coat.... I was wondering about a private school for Joyce. What do you think?" "I was thinking about babies," Carol said softly, "little warm babies, in soft pink sweaters." "Babies!" Dan snorted, "Babies? We won't have to think about them for years. Joyce won't be married for years, if 1 have anything to say about it." Carol sat on the stool by the sink. She watched him read his paper, finish his breakfast, and depart. She went slowly to gather up the breakfast dishes. We touch each other every day, Dan and I, our hands touch, and our lips, and sometimes we look at each other when we speak, but what is more barren than a touch without knowledge, and more blind than eyes accustomed to the thing they see? GHE could no longer endure the quiet house. She worked swiftly until just before noon, then she changed and went downtown. She walked slowly up Main Street, looking in the shop windows, struggling to cast off her RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1946 doubts and depression. A tall girl in a yellow jacket, obviously pregnant, looked at the display of slim, spring dresses. Carol smiled at her, she who was inordinately shy, and found herself saying, "But it won't be very long.... You'll be even prettier." The girl laughed. "I don't mind. I'm glad... Glad... You see they told me once that I couldn't have a baby. Think of going through life without a baby of your own. I was the oldest... It was a thrill, each new small brother or sister." Something of the girl's joy went with Carol up the street. She walked past the shopping district, and up the little hill that led from Temple Square. She rested for a moment against an old stone wall. She looked over the valley, at the homes, at the long business street, at the gray walls of the temple, and Angel Moroni's glinting gold in the afternoon sun. Words from a psalm slipped like jewels on a chain, "His foundation is in the holy mountains. The Lord loveth the gates of Zion more than all the dwellings of Jacob.... Glorious things are spoken of thee, O city of God....". With quickening breath Carol threaded the other words, "... And of Zion it shall be said, This and that man was born in her: and the highest himself shall establish her. The Lord shall count, when he writeth up the people, that this man was born there. Selah."... That this man was born there...." Carol put her hand upon her breast. She was very still, washed in a nameless, burning beauty. We forget, she thought, the important things, how valuable to God are the children born here. How greatly they will be needed in the years to come. She reached out for the THE INTRUDER moment, to keep its strength and its beauty, but already it was like a wind-torn cloud, unrolling, dispelling, and gone. She walked slowly back to town. She had a sandwich in a department store tea room. Afterwards she took the elevator up to the infants' wear. She priced the diminutive shirts, the nightgowns. There was a baby shawl of blue yarn, beautifully woven, incredibly soft. She fingered it gently, seeing her baby wrapped in its lovely folds. "I'll take it," she said to the clerk. She held the package close against her, walking down the aisle of the store. Suddenly, she stood still. If a shawl could do so much for her, make the baby seem so near. "Why, of course," she said aloud, and went swiftly to the yard goods' counter. She bought a square of pink silk, shimmering and beautiful. She tucked it carefully with the other package and went smiling towards the bus corner. Danny was in the garage. She could hear him hammering lustily on a piece of steel. He looked up as her shadow fell on him. He grinned. "I'm making an ait-cooling system for the house. You'll really like it, it won't be nearly so noisy as last summer." Carol repressed a shudder. "It sounds wonderful. By the way, Danny, do you think you could make a cradle?" "A cradle?" "You see, this woman is going to have a baby and she has her heart set on an old-fashioned cradle. The stores don't carry them, and I happened to think of you. I'm just sure you could make her one." with brown, gentle hands. 677 Danny rubbed his nose with an oil-smeared hand. "Sure, I could. Gosh, never saw a cradle except in pictures. But I could do it." He lifted his head hopefully. "Say, would she want a self-rocker? I think I could get a motor?" Carol repressed her horrified 'outcry. "She might," she managed to say. He nodded loftily. "Okay. Ill do it." She went hastily away before the desire to hug him should disgrace her forever. Joyce came home at five, as Carol was just beginning dinner. Carol, straining her ears, heard the quick footsteps halt beside the diningroom table. "Oh, yummy. Mother?" "Yes, dear," Carol managed to walk casually into the dining room. "Did you call me?" Joyce was caressing the pink silk "How perfectly gorgeous! Mine?" "No... It's for a woman who's going to have a baby. She wants to make a quilt." Carol held the shimmering silk up against the light. "She was wondering if you would make the design for it.... I showed her some of your little animals one day." "You mean,' breathed Joyce, "that she wants me to make the design for her?" Caro] nodded. "TI have some silk scraps we can use for applique. I brought home some magazines with babies on the covers. They might help you. When you make things for babies you have to get that cuddly feel in your fingers." Joyce gathered up her books. "That new neighbor has some adorable things for her baby. Ill go 678 tend him and then I can really look at them." Carol went back to the kitchen. She sat for a brief moment on the stool by the sink. "I should know by now," she thought, "that most miracles happen as casually as this." Naida called one morning. "Have you told them yet?" "Not yet," Carol answered. Isn't the time." "Well, you'd better tell them before the town does." Carol laughed. "But the town doesn't know. I spend my days sewing a fine seam." She did not add, with Joyce. Because this was too new, too precious to be shared, those moments when Joyce sat beside her and threaded her needle in the pattern she had drawn on the silk. It was an appealing design she had made of fat little bears in a rainstorm. "Tt AROL had known few moments as lovely as the afternoon when Joyce said suddenly, "''m beginning to think Celia's a dope about some things. I think babies are sweet." She smiled at her mother. "Of course, all those pictures you have around of babies, would make an ogre love them." Danny had made no further mention of the cradle, but sometimes he deigned to play with the neighbor's baby whom Carol "borrowed." But one afternoon he brought a sheaf of drawings to the dinirlg room. "Take a look, Mom, and see if they're what you want?" Carol sat down and thumbed through them. She exclaimed over one. "Isn't this adorable; might have come over on the Mayflower? That's my choice." RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1946 Danny's face grew bright. "Do you really like it? I can get some maple for that. It would look swell in maple." He lifted his head as his father strode in. "Dan," Carol cried, "come and see what your son has drawn." But Dan, bursting with excitement, had no time for sketches. "Just a moment until I tell you what I brought home. Where's Joyce? I want everybody here, Joyce!" he shouted, "Oh, Joyce!" She came running. "What goes, Dad?" She gave him a hug. He grinned at her and pulled a handful of folders from his pocket. He handed them to Carol in a sweeping gesture. "A trip!" he roared. "A trip for the whole family! How would you like to drive up to the Northwest, down the coast to Mexico, over. To New Orleans, Washington, D. C., New York, and then drive back in a brand-spang new car?" They fell on him with shouts of joy. As from a long way off, Carol listened to their excited questions and their shrieks of delight. "And I can really buy some clothes in New York?" Joyce demanded. "Oh, won't Celia's eyes simply pop. Oh, Daddy, I'm just speechless." Dan said, "It's your mother who's speechless." He turned to her. There was a question and disappointment in his eyes. "What is it, Carol?" Carol looked at the three she loved more than anyone else in the world, at their flushed, shining faces, their enraptured eyes. In all her careful planning there had been no thought of this. How futile her efforts seemed now—the baby for the family to stumble Over, the Caro] Watched him, while Pain bit neighbor's baby she had "borrowed," In her. He looked SO young, like a can't go on the trip, I'm going to famously, have a baby." Tt was then Carol knew why he There was a stunned silence. Had delayed Speaking so long. His "A baby?" anny's voice skidded Voice was tough with tears. "Do into high C. "A baby? You mean You think I'd take 4 chance of any- 4 real one?" thing happening to you... Or my "A baby?" whispered Joyce, «4 child?" He took ier in 'his arms baby in our house. [, making the and hid his face against her hair fo, quilt for our own baby, Oh, Moth. A long "DOnrertt. "Teleeti. Strangest young that awe s¢j]] lived in he rae lve ood ee ar €r daughter smiled a her lieve» - Carol Controlled the Chuckle be. | fore it teached her lips. Miracles, 2Osh," said Danny. He looked happen 0 casually, the constant wildly around him, "Gosh, lemme miracles that only women know. She set the table." lifted her face. "Thanks," she said Dan said very softly, "That's a with her heart, "thanks for every- 800d idea, Son." He kept his head thing." "e RAFFLING AND GAMBLING Is it Proper to raffle Property.. > No; taffling js 4 game of chance, 'and hence leads to gambling: for that Teason, if for no other, jt should not be €nCouraged | | Latter-day Saints we cannot afford to sacrifice mora] Principles to financial gain," and advised the Sisters through the Woman's Exponent not to raffle. President Lorenzo anyone that taffling horses, quilts, bicycles and other Property is not sanctioned by the Moral law nor 4PProved by the general Church authorities? | _ - i£ you do not believe Faith Is a Heritage Christie Lund Coles - CHAPTER 7 Synopsis: Enid Drage, young, attractive wife of Tom Drage, finds herself a widow following his death in a factory accident. She finishes normal school and teaches in the small town, renting from Miss Nobbit. Rearing her daughter, Sharon, presents problems. She has been to a party with the wealthy young people of the town, and complains that she will: never be able to entertain them in their own two-room apartment. NID had deliberately delayed coming home from school on several days when Mr. Fletcher, the portly and distinguishedlooking banker, had suggested that he might meet her on Main Street after school. That was his alternative when she had refused to go with him riding or to the movies. At times, when she had started home and had seen him in the distance standing in the bank doorway, she had changed her course, pretending _to herself or whoever might be with her that she needed to go to the library. The day after Sharon's first party, Enid closed her desk up early, powdered her nose carefully, put lipstick on sparingly to bring out her own good color, and loosened her hair somewhat about her face. Then she started down Main Street. She wanted to see Mr. Fletcher today She wanted him to see her, to ask her to go out with him. Her answer would not be "No" today. And she was not disappointed. He was standing in the doorway of the bank. She walked slowly, pretending not to notice him, yet giving him time to speak. Page 680 He said, "We—Ill, I haven't seen you in a long time. School teaching must be keeping you pretty busy." She lifted her eyes to his in simulated surprise and pleasure, "Oh, how do you do?" she greeted him, smiling, stopping until he came over toher. "It's so nice seeing you." He literally beamed beneath her pleasantry. He fingered his solid gold watch fob, as he suggested, "Wouldn't you like to have an icecream soda?" "I believe I would," she agreed, still smiling. "Wait just one moment until I get my hat, we'll walk over to the drugstore." She waited, remembering the gay, casual way in which Tom used to go without a hat, even in the coldest weather, the way his dark hair used to lift in the wind. But she must not remember Tom now. That was in the past. She would put it behind her once and for all. Yes, she would forget... She would go forward, make a good life for Sharon, the kind of life the girl wanted, with a house where she could entertain... Maybe her own car later on. All the things the other girls had. There was not another house in town to compare with the Fletcher three-story brick one in the south part of town, with its beautifully landscaped grounds and weeping willow trees that almost concealed the white-pillared porch. She was more animated than ever when Mr. Fletcher joined her; and FAITH IS A HERITAGE they walked laughingly to the comer drugstore. When they parted, he asked her to the military ball the next night, and she accepted with outward pleasure and enthusiasm. "You're a lovely thing," he assured her, holding his hat properly in his hand, bending slightly from the waist. "Thank you," she SrsTETei playing the game, going through the motions, forcing her lips into the smile of gentleness and sweetness that he seemed to admire so much. By the time he called for her the next night, she was actually in a state of excitement, due partly to Sharon's happiness and Miss Nobbit's sage approval. Her parting words, "You could do much worse," kept going through Enid's mind. And, leaving out the question of love, she couldn't do any better, she decided. She even enjoyed the dance more than she had dreamed she could, for she had forgotten how good it was to move to soft music in rhythm and motion, to see the happy couples about her, all suddenly more than friendly. Mr. Fletcher noticed the glow on her face, told her, "You've needed to go out more for a long time. You are too young to give up life and fun. I felt the same when my wife died. But life has to go on. I hope now that you've made the break we'll see more of you. I hope..." H® words stopped on a wistful note as he looked into her eyes. She felt herself flush, and she changed the subject, quickly, gaily. It was too soon to let anything be said. However, the orchestra was playing a sentimental waltz, and she 681 did not feel any disapproval as his arm tightened just a little about her waist. True, he was twenty years older than she, he was bald and heavy. But 'on the other side of the ledger there were many things: his standing in the community, his graciousness, and, of course, his imposing and beautiful home. She didn't quite know what she would do with such a house if it ever should happen that he asked her to marry him. But there was time enough to think of that later. He might never ask her. Yet, her woman's intuition—and his eyes—told her differently. It seemed to Enid that even the children at school treated her with a new respect and courtesy, for news traveled fast in the town. Or perhaps it was only her imagination, she decided, only the sense she felt within herself of being more than just a hireling, of knowing she could be more than that, much more. But she noted a new glow on Sharon's face—as though she knew a wonderful secret. Enid had been so engrossed in her own thoughts that she had not particularly noticed that Miss Nobbit was looking more pale, and that she was guite a bit weaker, until one morning when she went to the door, as usual, with her breakfast. Enid found that Miss Nobbit was not up in her chair, but was still lying in her bed. "T'm just tired this morning. T'll be as right as rain after I eat a bite. You run along to school." "Tl run down at noon to see how you feel," Enid assured her. "You rest comfortably. Ill put your pills here where you can reach them." "You needn't come at noon, Child, 682 I tell you I feel perfectly all right. Can't a body take an hour's extra test without all this commotion?" "But what if I want to come home at noon? I suppose a body might have a right to do that." The older woman did not answer with her usual, spritely comeback. She ate listlessly and in silence. Enid hated to leave her, and, when she did leave, she called at the home of the next-door neighbor and asked her to look in occasionally during the day. The hours at school seemed to go slowly. When the day was finally done, and Enid was putting away her papers, she looked up to sce a tall, rather gangling, shy-looking young man standing by the door. For a moment, her heart seemed to turn a somersault. The blood left her face and she was glad she was sitting down, as she felt faint. When she looked at the man closer, she wondered why she should have thought his resemblance to Tom so pronounced. Still, there was some intangible likeness—the wistfulness in his eyes, his one-sided smile—but, outside of that, there was no resemblance except his height. It was her mind doing tricks. "Hello," she said pleasantly, and he came in, nodding, repeating, "Hello." After a moment of looking at her, he asked, "Are you Mrs. Drage?" "Yes. I am. Was there something?" "T'm Billy Richards' father. He's having quite a hard time with his English. I thought perhaps you could tell me what I could do to help him at home. His mother's dead, you know." "Oh, I'm sorry," she told him, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1946 kindly, "I didn't know. He's such a nice child..." She proceeded to tell him whatever she thought might be of help. When she was through, he lingered as though loath to leave. "Maybe Pll see you again sometime?" he said, and his words were a question. "I hope so," she assured him. And she meant it. She wanted to see him again. He was as young as she, and there was naturalness and simplicity in his manner and his face. She recognized them because she was a natural and simple person herself. She knew, suddenly, that she had never really wanted anything in life that was ornate or beyond her méans. She wanted a good, simple life, a life rich in the true joys, the quiet, inner joys that neither money nor fame can buy. And, as she watched Mr. Richards go, she felt she could never marry Mr. Fletcher. She would manage somehow. To give Sharon a home, although she might never be able to afford anything but a humble one. She picked up her bag, put on her hat, and stared for just a moment out of the window, lost in thought. Bleakness was in the air, a last crisp leaf scurried across the ground as though looking for a place to hide from the relentless wind. She was not alarmed when she saw Sharon running up the walk to the building. Yet, when she saw Sharon's face as she entered the room, her own loneliness disappeared and she was all alertness and concern. "Sharon, darling... What?" The girl cried, "Hurry, Mother, hurry! Miss Nobbit... She's dyimg... (To be continued) Sallie-Start-Something Alice Whitson Norton 66 OW, Sallie," warned MothN her Tidwell, when Sallie started out to meet the youngsters living in the new location to which they had just moved, "remember your promise." "Yes, Mother," answered the girl, "T will remember." "I wonder," mused the mother, as her daughter went tripping down the path leading to the gate, "if she will." Back in the old community where Sallie had lived, she had made a reputation for herself of starting things and never finishing them, until some of the girls in the neighborhood had given her the name of Sallie-StartSomething, and the name had stayed. Even at that, nobody ever made a complaint about Sallie, for she was one of those pleasant creatures whom people willingly serve, and when she started anything (she was generally back of any new movement undertaken in the community), some of the other girls would be teady to carry the idea through. But before Sallie left the old community, she had had a heart-to-heart talk with her mother, and they had agreed that Sallie was going to leave the old name and reputation behind when they moved away. So, before Sallie began taking an active interest in her new neighbors, Mother Tidwell felt reasonably sure that she would abide by her promise; but, when Sallie began running out to meet the girls, Mother Tidwell began to feel uneasy. Then, one afternoon, in came Sallie, her face flushed and her eyes sparkling. "Mother," she exclaimed, "what do you think—this community of girls has no reading center!" For a moment Mrs. Tidwell stood regarding her daughter with a look of mingled surprise and _ pleasure. Sallie had started something, she knew, without so much as questioning her. "When does the first meeting take place, Sallie?" the mother asked pleasantly. "Why, Mother," exclaimed the girl in a tone of amazement, "how did you know we were going to organize a reading society?" "That is something I cannot answer," laughed the mother, "but if'sea faet, ionlt it?" "Yes'm," answered Sallie, "I—I —well, when I found out the state of things I just couldn't resist inviting the girls over to our house for an hour of reading. You see," went on Sallie, enthusiastically, "these gitls need to start their mental powers to work, and by forming a good reading club, I figured that I would be helping them without their knowing it." "Quite true, my dear," replied the mother, "but, remember, you haven't the old crowd back of you now to finish what you start, and, unless you have made up your mind to stick to the finish, I Page 683 684 most earnestly bescech you to call it off mght now. I don't want you to make the same sort of reputation here as you Icft in the old town. Sallie-Start-Something isn't a very high-sounding name for a girl in Wer teens." "Sallie-Start-Somcthing," repeated the girl slowly. Then, suddenly, her face lighted up with inspiration. "Why, Mother," she said happily, "that phrase wouldn't be such a bad trade-mark, provided the something started was a worthy venture and continued to live, would it?" "No," admitted the mother with a fearful heart, "if the something started was started in good faith and carried out, it could mean a lot to a new neighborhood, but think it over, my dear, and tliink seriously before you start anything." "Yes'm," answered Sallie, as she started for the door leading to her own small room above, "Ill think it over seriously." Some two hours later Sallie came down, dressed in her best red wool dress and matching beret. "You've been thinking, Sallie," asked the mother, "of what we were talking about?" "T have," rephed the girl, "and I've made up my mind that it's not my ideas, but my mcthods that are bad." "Then you will give up the reading society?" questioned the mother. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1946 "Give up something I've just started?" exclaimed Sallic, "No, indeed, Mother. Here's where Sallie Start-Something begins to change her policies. From now on, Sallie Start-Something will start more things than she has ever started be fore, and back up her starting by sticking to them." So it happened that Sallie-StartSomething from the old town, be came Sallie-Stick-To-It in the new, and, under her capable dircctorship, not only a reading socicty, but various other organizations were started and held together for the good of the community. And even to this day, though Sallie is no longer a teen-age girl, the community de pends on her to start something when it begins to lag in interesting events. And no longer does the mother worry about her daughter's reputation — Sallie-Start-Something-andStick-To-It means quite a different thing from the Sallie-Start-Something of the old town. The beloved Sallie will tell you herself, that while the world is full of the former type of young women, the Sallie-StartSomething kind who leaves the venture in somebody else's hands to finish, there are also a few of the Sallie-Start-Somcthing-and-StickToIt kind, and those, after all, are the ones who keep the old world running smoothly. —<— FAT SALVAGE CAMPAIGN The necd for saving fats and oils is still acute. Housewives are urged to bring salvaged fats and oils to meat markets, retail grocery stores, and packing plants. The materials thus salvaged can be used for making soap, nylons, shoes, paints, printing ink, fabrics, cellophane, electrical appliances, linoleum, and hundreds of other products. The American Fat Salvage Committee gives this timely advice: "American women can help themselves get more soap, and help the famine areas of the world get more food fats and oils simply by conserving all fats and oils and tuming every drop of used cooking fat over to the meat dealer for four cents a pound." . IE SUBMITT ay, OF MATERIAL FOR 'OTES FROM THE FIELD" § to submit Teports for Publi. End them through the stake 6 lat one or h Presidents. © wards or branches M a stake Or miss; } Teports on activities Which are eing Conducted on a stake-wide Or MSsion-wide instances it would be to the advantage of the Stake or mj Ire activity in the same issue of th or branches ed. T aycompanying Photo » OF Mission and branch Should be "Y Teported, the date, and TEss, and POsition 'of + staphs, 5 given, together with h fe) Pertinent da » INcludj he name, he person aking the re be and distinct and wil] © 800d cuts for Production Black d white Blossy Prints €produce Most satisfactorily Pictures shou] ave th follow; information Wwnitten Carly on the back: Name of Stake ang Ward, or Mission and branch itle of Picture, st ting the activity Tep meeting of the grou resented or the Purpose of P ate picture Was taken ame, address, ang Position jn Relief Society Of person Submit L 1€ picty Iden fication 9 PCrsOns in the Picture should be made on the reverse Should be given from left to 7 » Written learly, and spel] names of the y, men should 5 no Erickson, Not Mr, ©. Names SPelled correct) The gi "sed, not their husbands' hames L * James Erickson lp D. Officers President, Counselors, and Secretary-treasnrer e With their names, If the Photograph has Teference to Si teaching i t otes From the Fielq" Should be ad Surer of Relief Society, 28 Bishop's di dressed to the Genera] ulding, Salt Lake City 1, Utah, Page 685 Pictures Which a submitted for pu lication can used only if they are Clear 686 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1946 NEBO STAKE (UTAH), PAYSON SECOND WARD RELIEF SOCIETY MEMBERS AND PARTNERS AT A BANQUET January 31, 1946 Photograph submitted by Nadine Brown, Relief Society President of Payson Second Ward when this photograph was taken, now president of Nebo Stake Relief Society. EAST CENTRAL STATES MISSION, NORTH CAROLINA WEST DISTRICT RELIEF SOCIETY BIRTHDAY PARTY Leone W. Doxey, East Central States Mission Relief Society President, reports a delightful banquet celebrating the 104th anniversary of the organization of the Relief Society. 'The banquet was held in the ballroom of the O'Henry Hotel in Greensboro, North Carolina, March 16th, 1946. More than one hundred fifty men and women attended. At one end of the room on a raised platform was placed a large birthday cake. Each of the twelve presidents of the Relief Societies in the district was invited NOTES FROM THE FIELD 687 to light one of the candles on the cake. An effective pageant was presented representing the lives of the General Presidents of Relief Society. Sister Olive W. Webb was in charge of the banquet and Sister Winifred B. Roberts conducted the program. President and Sister Graham H. Doxey of the East Central States Mission and the district presidency and their wives were guests. The North Carolina West District Relief Society officers are: Vena W. Draughon, President; Ruth S. Gulledge, First Counselor; Olive W. Webb, Second Counselor; Winifred B. Roberts, Secretary-Treasurer. EMIGRATION STAKE (SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH), UNIVERSITY WARD RELIEF SOCIETY SEWING GROUP Front row, seated, left to right: Marilyn Stobbe; Vadna Matson, Second Counselor; Augusta Stobbe, President; Shirley Ann Stobbe; Etta Cowles; Fern Robison, First Counselor; Mary Lou Stobbe. Back row, standing, left to right: Alice Malin; Elizabeth Rickenbach; Lillie Sorenson; Grace Woodbury; Thelma Clark; Henrietta Thurman; Rachel Taylor; La Ree Snow; Clair Sprunt. From Emigration Stake, where Lillie C. Adams is president of the Relief Society, a report of the sewing activities in the University Ward has been received through First Counselor Fern Robison: "During the past winter, 1945-46 the women of the University Ward Relief Society pledged themselves to support a most helpful and thrifty project, that of making their own clothing. Good materials were scarce, but there were many members of the Relief Society group who had at their disposal good materials in pre-war garments, and, with careful planning and cutting, these were fashioned into stylish, good-looking clothes. The president, Sister Augusta Stobbe, completed two dresses and a suit for herself, plus suits for each of her three daughters. The work director, Sister Vadna Matson, assisted each member, in turn, as difficulties arose. By March 17th, the group wardrobe was completed. A fashion show was staged during the evening of March 17th while the University Ward members were being entertained at a banquet in commemoration of the 104th anniversary of the organization of the Relief Society. In the above photograph each of the women is wearing the dress, suit, or hat which she made for herself." Photograph submitted by Fern L. Robison. 688. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1946 WEST POCATELLO STAKE (IDAHO), POCATELLO FIRST AND THIRD WARD BAZAARS Emily S. Romish, President, West Pocatello Stake Relief Socicty, reports two very successful bazaars. At the First Ward bazaar various kinds of children's and infants' clothing were displayed, together with a large number of sheets, pillowcases, rag rugs, aprons, crocheted doilies, pinafores, pajamas, quilts, dolls, pincushions, and many other useful and beautiful articles. The Third Ward bazaar was composed of eight different booths, each of which included well-made and useful articles of great variety. Photographs of three of the eight booths are shown on the opposite page. WEST POCATELLO STAKE, FIRST WARD BAZAAR Upper picture, handwork section, left to mght: Martha Ross; Grace Richards and Karen Jensen, counselors; Sarah Jensen, work director; Allice Jensen, president; Myrtle Stoddard; Olive Larsen; Thora Brown, secretary-treasurer,; Mamie Bird. Lower picture, cooked food section, left to right: Lillian Eggleston; Lael Mausey; Ada Goodersham. NOTES FROM THE FIELD oe ia TON ETE IER WEST POCATELLO STAKE, THIRD WARD BAZAAR Top: left to right: Lucy Wardle, sewing chairman, in charge of pillowcase booth: Evelyn Thornock, in charge of tea towels; Sylvia Seelas, in charge of baby booth. Middle: left to right: Stella Price, President Pocatello Third Ward; Marie Hiltabrand, in charge of quilts; Maude Selover and Elva Neeley in charge of miscellaneous booth. Lower: Left to right: Louise Richardson and Etta Walker in charge of the cake booth; Verda Reid, Secretary; Violet Hart, First Counselor; Veta Leyland, Second Counselor, in charge of bazaar. 690 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1946 BIG HORN STAKE (WYOMING), BASIN BRANCH RELIEF SOCIETY OFFICERS Front row, left to right: Darlene Hansen, organist; Lottie Wehr, First Counselor; Verla L. Smith, President; Lova Kinghorn, Second Counselor; Ona Scott. Back row, left to right: Ethel Parkins; Louise Tuttle, Magazine agent; Helen Parks; Plet Avery; Clara Smith; Mae Scott, Secretary-Treasurer. Grace E. Allphin, Big Horn Stake Relief Society President, reports that the Basin Ward has been outstanding in all phases of Relief Society work. Photograph submitted by Grace E. Allphin CALIFORNIA MISSION, VENTURA BRANCH RELIEF SOCIETY Seated, left to right: Mary Cotterel; Janet Watt; Julia Johnson. Standing, left to nght: Lillian Johnson; Afton Hodgson; Lavera Curtis; Suzanna Blair; Mae Badger, Frances L. Broadbent, Secretary-Treasurer; Thyra Hale, Second NOTES FROM THE FIELD 691 ¥ COTTONWOOD STAKE (UTAH ), MURRAY THIRD WARD VISITING TEACHERS First row, seated, left to tight: Elsie Wiseman; Belle Breakfield: Kate Peterson; Marie Evans; Mary Nelson; Ella French; Arick Kezerian; Josephine Miller; Louise Barthell; Margaret Chivrell; Marguerite Allington; Lottie Evans, First Counselor. Second Tow, standing, left to right: Afton Wallace; Billie Parker; Mary Sabine: Effie White; Clara Knight; Paula Stephan; Duella Hamblin; Kate Morris; Effie Miller; Mary Parker; Bernice Drown; Amber Palmer; Margaret Dawes; Lorene Tranter; Bertha of approximately twelve families each. Five districts comprise a region, presided over by a supervisor. The tecord achieved has been the result of faithful check-up work by the supervisors, who have acted, also, as extra teachers within their regions, liams; Myrtle Themos; Mildred Williams; Elma Eskelson. Sister Ella R. Croxford is President of Cottonwood Stake Relief Society, Photograph submitted by Dora W. McMillan, President, Murray Third Ward Relief Society. 692 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1946 COTTONWOOD STAKE (UTAH) MAGAZINE REPRESENTATIVES These women have been instrumental in bringing the Magazine subscriptions for Cottonwood Stake from 26 per cent in 1942 to nearly 100 per cent in 1945. Photograph submitted by Sister Ella R. Croxford, President Cottonwood Stake Relief Society. = oS ates NEW YORK STAKE, QUEENS WARD, (NEW YORK) RELIEF SOCIETY CONCERT Left to right: La Var Jenson of Ephraim, Utah, piano soloist and accompanist; Earlene Christensen, former Brigham Young University student, pianist; Emily Wright, former student University of Utah, reader; Olive Harris, formerly of Richfield, Utah, soprano; Ruth Miller, pianist. Sister Vera H. Hales, President of Queens Ward Relief Society, in describing this unusually fine concert, reports that a letter of invitation was sent to all the ward Relief Society members and friends. The program of classical music was most ably presented before a large audience, April 26, 1946. Grace C. Woolley is president of New York Stake Relief Society. Photograph submitted by Vera H. Hales NOTES FROM THE FIELD 693 SMITHFIELD STAKE (UTAH), CLARKSTON WARD RELIEF SOCIETY VISITING TEACHERS For three consecutive years the visiting teachers of the Clarkston Ward have achieved 100 per cent in their activities. Anne M. Farr is president of Smithfield Stake Relief Society. Photograph submitted by Sister Archulious B. Archibald, ward Relief Society President. INGLEWOOD STAKE (CALIFORNIA), CENTINELA WARD PAGEANT, "THE GATE BEAUTIFUL" From Inglewood Stake, where Josephine E. B. Prestwich is president of the Relief Society, a report of the pageant, "The Gate Beautiful," has been received from Josephine Bullock, President of Centinela Ward: 694 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1946 "The pageant was presented March 19, 1946, in commemoration of the organization of the Relief Society. Two outstanding features of the pageant were the words of the Prophet Joseph Smith given 104 years ago to the sisters of the Relief Society; and the reading. By President Josephine Bullock. Of the counsel of President George Albert Smith written for the sisters of the Relief Society today. The program was closed by the congregation singing 'Praise to the Man." After the benediction, refreshments were served." Photograph submitted by Josephine Bullock SOUTH OGDEN STAKE (UTAH), EIGHTEENTH WARD RELIEF SOCIETY EASTER PAGEANT Standing, left to right: Beatrice Loftgreen; Louise Swan; Edna Buss; Nellie Van der Zee; Delecta Davis; Elizabeth Lochhead; Edith Quigley; Hilda Halverson; Walter Buss; Mabel Howey; Hellen Hansen; Norma Thomas; Ellen Allred; Minnie Doctor. Seated, center: Mary P. Lambert, Second Counselor, Eighteenth Ward Relief Society, and composer and director of the pageant. Under the direction of Sister Olive M. C. Christiansen, Stake Relief Society President; Sister Nina J. Langford, Stake Secretary-Treasurer, in submitting the above photograph, reports: "The pageant was produced by the Relief Society women in the Sunday evening meeting, March 4, 1946, and was repeated at the Mother's and Daughter's program preceding the South Ogden Stake quarterly conference, May gth." Photograph submitted by Nina J. Langford NOTES FROM THE FIELD 695 MARICOPA STAKE (ARIZONA), COOLIDGE WARD RELIEF SOCIETY Front row, seated, left to right: Jewel Ray, Second Counselor; Rena Goodman, President; Minnie Wing, First Counselor; Charity Brewer. Second row, standing, left to right: Clara Wootan, Secretary-Treasuret, Betty Ellis; Gladys Ray; Ruth Tiffany; Vilate Jones; Ada Chesley; Opal Moody; May Tiffany; Florence Busby. Sister Vida D. Brinton is president of Maricopa Stake Relief Society. The president of Coolidge Ward, Sister Rena Goodman, reports the following activities: "We are just a few in number and are scattered over a thirty-mile area, but we manage to attend our Relief Society meetings. Our popular activity is sewing, most of which is done for our bazaar which is held each fall. Items made for the bazaar include: pillowcases, dish towels, aprons, and children's wear. Last year most of the articles were made from mash sacks. Each month at our work meetings, we Serve Te freshments and give recognition to all of the members having birthdays during that month.", Photograph submitted by Rena Goodman —> CROCHETING Dorothy J. Roberts Beauty flows from her finger tips, The twinkling needle, the tinted yarn, Delicate as a baby's lips. The woman is young OF she is old, Her home small or elaborate, The day is warm OF the season cold. All or any, she only knows Ecstasy as her fingers fly, Fulfillment as the pattern grows. UE} DEPARTMENT Theology—Church History Lesson 20—The Educational System Developed Elder H. Wayne Driggs For Tuesday, January 7, 1947 Objective: J(NOWLEDGE of truth brings: freedom. The Master throughout the days of his mortal existence strove ever to teach men this underlying principle of life. He knew that men could not be free to think, free to act, and free to live unless they also were free in agency to seek after truth. So important is free agency for men that God is ever willing to hazard the difficulties which always attend its continuance upon the earth. To relate this thought to the rise and development of the educational system of the restored Church, let us once again think of the opening vision that brought the light from heaven in our-day. "If any of you lack wisdom" (James 1:5) read the young Prophet. In this world men will always lack wisdom and will thirst for its acquirement. The significant thing about Joseph Smith's lack of knowledge is to be found not so much in his limited opportunities to know, as it is in his discovery of the channel through which all great truth comes, namely, the asking of God. It is this fact that looms high above all others if one would explain the astonishing de Page 696 To show that God would have his children seek after all that is good. Velopment of the educational system among the Latter-day Saints. From the organization of the Church, on April 6, 1830, to the present day, the way to better living for the Latter-day Saint people has been illuminated intelligent search for all things of worth, to be found "above the earth, in the earth and below the earth." "The glory of God is intelligence." "It is impossible for a man to be saved in ignorance," revealed the modern Prophet, (Doc. And Cov. 93:36 and 131:6). Whata spur these thoughts have been to modern Israel! They stir the imagination to purposeful acts and give new meaning to the utterance of the Savior, "And ye shall know the truth, and the truth shall make you free" (John 8:32). With the knowledge of the new but eternal way of laying claim to the fountain head of all wisdom, young missionaries of the newly restored Church went forth. Most of. These young men were unlettered in the scholastic sense in which one would point to an educated man today. Yet the lack of formal schooling did not dampen their spirits. They felt that as their Prophet and LESSON DEPARTMENT leader might go directly to the Lord for help, they too, might seek his counsel. As the Church membership increased, and as the desire to know more of God's revealed word grew, Joseph Smith sought to bring his elders together in groups to instruct them. It is significant that he founded "The School of the Prophets," and chose for the place of its meeting the top floor of the Kirtland Temple. So inspirational were the classes held in the sacred building that practical men, like Brigham Young, who attended, never forgot the need for educational training in the cause of Zion. The search for truth, it was taught, should be constant and always enjoined by prayer. In one of the revelations given through the Prophet, at Kirtland, we read the following: Teach ye diligently and my grace shall attend you, that you may be instructed more perfectly in theory, in principle, in doctrine, in the law of the gospel, in all things that pertain unto the kingdom of God, that are expedient for you to understand; of things both in heaven and in the earth, and under the earth; things which have been, things which are, things which must shortly come to pass; things which are at home; things which are abroad; the wars and the perplexities of the nations, and the judgments which are on the land; and a knowledge also of countries and of kingdoms—That ye may be prepared in all things when I shall send you again to magnify the calling whereunto I have called you, and the mission with which I have commissioned you (Doc. And Cov. 88:78-80). With such words from the Lord, there can be no limit to the search for knowledge. All that is good and true in the learning of men, God would have his children know; and 697. Has promised that his grace would attend their teaching and study. Such an inspirational call for leadership in learning left the practical builders of Zion a clear assignment for the erection of schools and academies of higher education. Latterday Saints would accept all that was good in secular training and then add to such the blessings of the spirit which come through a study of his word. Latter-day Saint schools have always provided instruction for the physical, as well as the spiritual nature of man. The college song of the leading Church institution of higher learning, Brigham Young University, includes this phrase, "The head, the heart, the hand united must be true." How fittingly significant these words suggest the basic philosophy of Latter-day Saints' teaching. Let us consider the "head." From the earliest beginning of education the teacher's calling has been to train the mind, to provide lessons that would provoke clear thinking, and arrange fitting exercises for the development of logic. The love of scholarship often overshadowed the teaching of physical fitness. The "heart"—truly inspirational teaching has as its central objective the training of the emotions. These spring from the heart and find their fountain source in the gospel. All true wisdom and_ understanding must come from God and so, in the best of learning situations, there must be that true instruction of him who knoweth all things. One cannot graduate from a Church school without training in the emotions of the heart. ' The "hand"—educationally, the 698 name of Brigham Young will always live among the Latter-day Saints and the world. Not alone because of the many schools he founded, but because of the practical emphasis he placed upon learning. In one of his sermons delivered in the Tabernacle, in October 1860, he said: Educate a young man in mineralogy in our schools, and what does he know? Take him into a field, where you think he will be useful, and you will find that one of the most unlearned of men who has made a little practical study of this subject will go around him a dozen times a day. Why? Because the educated cannot apply what he has received. Educate him as a surveyor. Well, he has to go into the field to labor and practice for a long time before he becomes proficient in that department. The education is good, but where the school drops them we leave them, and the result is, they have to get some other occupation to make a living. Where are the shoemakers and the manufacturers of woolen and cotton goods? Is there a man educated in Utah that can go right into a woolen or a cotton factory and understand the business? Is there a man that can go into the South and take up the business of manufacturing cotton goods? There is not such a man educated in the state, unless he is down South, and I doubt there being any there who can go into the cotton factory and know what to do with the machinery and the cotton. This is a languishing industry in Utah. There was an ox killed in one of the settlements with a certain brand on the hide. That oxhide was sold, and in about eight or ten months it returned to that settlement in the shape of sole leather, with the same brand on it. From the time it left Wellsville until it was returned here it had passed through the hands of eleven men, and we paid them for handling it. This is the system that we have been following. If it had not been for the mercy of God, who saw our ignorance and slothfulness and put it aside, this people would have been poor in temporal circumstances in these mountains. But I do believe that the time has come and sufficient information has been given us, that if we do not take hold of these things and do RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1946 them properly God will make us responsible and we will suffer for it. I believe in education, but I want to see the boys and girls come out with an education at the fingers' ends as well as in their brains, that they may be able to support themselves. 'Take our gitls who are educated and receive commissions to teach, and if they cannot get schools what do they do? They clerk in a store or do something or other that people can do who have had very little education and their time has been wasted, because their education has not been in the right direction. I believe today that God intends that this people shall take hold of these manufacturing institutions, and put their sons and daughters to such labor as is suited to them. Educate them in these things as well as in letters. If we don't do this, where shall we draw from for men with the capacity to build up Zion and make it a perfect home? It has been stated that Utah includes within her borders all that is necessary to make the people wealthy. But we are neglecting the very means that God has put in our hands to educate our children the right way. The time has come, in my opinion, when our schools, instead of having-so much in the line of gymnastics should give good manual training. They are good to develop the muscles it is true. If they developed them with the hoe, or the axe, or the plow, or something that is useful, it would do them more good. If we could have our little farms, our blacksmith shops, our turning lathes, our carpenter's shops, our factories, and educate our children in these things as they go along, we would turn out men who could be moulded and used for the benefit and upbuilding of the Zion of our God. Zion has to be built up, and we want men who are capable of superintending in every department. God designs that men should be educated for this purpose (Conference Reports, October 1860, PP. 44-45)- The threefold philosophy of instruction, so much a part of Brigham Young University graduates, stands out today in the lives of this great institution's sons and daughters. In all fields of useful endeavor the men and women of Brigham LESSON DEPARTMENT Young University are to be found. They possess not only the scholarship and practical training a well-rounded education affords, but, what is most important, they are given an emotional poise that can only come where religious instruction is given under the inspiration of the Priesthood and by those having authority to teach the truth, not merely the philosophies of religious thought. And so, out of the lack of wisdom which sent a humble youth to seek his Maker, has come a great Church with its attendant institutions of higher learning, its seminaries, and its Institutes of Religion. Wherever Latter-day Saints are gathered in numbers, on the grounds of high schools or the campuses of colleges or universities, there the Church has reached out to provide the teachings of the Lord. Suggestions for Active Reading and Discussion With the help of the suggested readings given below, have the class carry on the discussion as follows: first, answer the question; second, read the assigned part of the text to discover wherein we must "give heed unto his word." 1. A noted educator of a great eastern 699 university once made the following remark about Latter-day Saints he had come to know as students during his years of instruction at the institution: "How can a Mormon but succeed as a scholar when he believes God is walking beside him in his studies?" What teachings in our Church would impiant such a belief in the youth? Read Do. And Cov. 88:67-80. Spend time discussing verse 67 of this passage. 2. Who may have claim upon the "Light of Christ,' who upon the "Gift of the Holy Ghost?" Read Doc. And Cov. 88:1-13. Compare verse 4 with verses 11-13. Will the answer to this question explain how all men of learning have arrived at truth? 3. One who would ascend the heights of learning must first be humble. Discuss. Read Doc. And Cov. 88:117-127. What are the lessons you would take to a student which are to be found in the passages assigned for reading in section 88 of the Doctrine and Covenants. Give the class time to find and comment upon a choice. The complete story of the founding and development of an educational system among the Latter-day Saints cannot be outlined in an hour's lesson. Its spirit and purpose, however, may. For the teacher who would prepare more fully this lesson the text, Mormonism and Education by M. Lynn Bennion, is suggested. The many charts, lists of founding dates for schools and academies, personal accounts of leading men who brought about a system of learning for the youth of Zion are therein all interestingly recorded. TRIOLET Merling Dennis Clyde Harvesting love is best each year; Sowing freely to hearts that yearn; Leaving the rest to God, my dear. Harvesting love is best each year. No seed quite leaves the garden sere, Surprising with a quick return. Harvesting love is best each year; Sowing freely to hearts that yearn. Visiting Seachers' IT lessages—Our Pioneer Heritage Lesson 4—Courage President Amy Brown Lyman For Tuesday, January 7, 1947 Objective: To show that courage, an outstanding virtue, was possessed by the pioneers; not alone courage to meet physical dangers, but also courage to meet spiritual pitfalls. IONEERINGin Westem America one hundred years ago was a hazardous undertaking. It was fraught with trying difficulties, stubborn obstacles, and many serious dangers. 'There were roadways to be made, rivers to ford, and mountain ranges to cross, all in a wilderness which was inhabited by wild animals and barbarous red men. Notwithstanding all these difficulties and dangers, the Mormon pioneers went bravely forward and undertook this gigantic task. Motivated by their religious convictions and their desire for freedom, and with implicit faith in the project, there was engendered within them a courage that was remarkable and outstanding; a courage which enabled them, from the very beginning, men and women alike, to meet with valor and daring their difficulties and problems; a courage which seemed to lift them up, to help them over hard places, to help them to overcome or banish fear, discouragement, and futility;-a courage which helped them to feel and realize that their sacrifices would ultimately bring a rich reward; a courage which enabled them to resist and overcome spiritual pitfalls. Leaving Nauvoo in the dead of winter, February 4, 1846, the saints crossed the Mississippi River on the ice, and formed their first camp at Sugar Creek. It was nine miles from Nauvoo, their beloved city, which they could still see in the distance, and which most of them would never see again. Whitney says: That night, a bitter night, nine children were born in tents and wagons in that wintery camp. How these tender babies, these sick and delicate women were cared for under such conditions, is left to the imagination of the sensitive reader (Whitney, Orson F., History of Utah, Vol. 1, page 249). During all the days of pioneering, quite as important as any other contribution made by the pioneer woman, was her moral courage and inspiration. One of the bronze plaques on Utah's Seagull Monument, located on Temple Square, Salt Lake City, and "Erected in grateful temembrance of the mercy of God to the Utah Pioneers," portrays the pioneer woman. She is the inspiration of the group in which she is placed. She stands erect beside the man, who, with drooping head and relaxed muscles is plainly disheart- 700 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1946 ened. The children are weary and_ with unfaltering faith into the blue listless. It is the woman, with head _ of heaven and sees the gulls coming up and muscles tense, who looks to save the crops. Work Meeting—Sewi ng (A Course for Optional Use by Wards and Branches at Work Meeting) Lesson 4—Stitches and Seams Work Meeting Committee, Velma N. Simonsen, Chairman For Tuesday, January 14, 1947 Objective: To practice stitches on pieces of cloth brought to class by members; to discuss bastings, kinds, and uses. Textbook reference: The Complete Book of Sewing, Chapters 4 and 5. Stitches [ is the desire of every seamstress that her completed garment shall have a professional, finished appearance. The cause of many clothes having a homemade look is due to pulling the thread too tightly when stitching. Enough play should be _ allowed for smoothness, as well as strength, in seams. The running stitch is the basic process of all fine needlework. It is a series of short, even stitches requiring a particular muscular technique which is acquired only with practice. Gathers, shirrs, and tucks are all made with the running stitch technique, the difference being in the application of this stitch. Bastings are simple running stitches used for temporary joinings, some of them merely holding the pieces together while they are stitched. —_ Seams and Edges Seams and edges make the structural lines of the garment. They give shape and design, and they form "eyepaths" along which the eye travels. Hence, it is very necessary that they be finished to perfection. To seam is to join two or more pieces of fabric together. Artistic seaming requires skill in the handling of material and finishing. Seams are judged on the right side for their beauty; on the wrong side for their security. Never cross one seam with another until the first has been pressed and finished, is the tule which governs artistic workmanship, and the master rule for good tailoring. It is desirable, when sewing seams on very thin material, to sew the material over thin paper. Assignment for February: Bring cut-out garment. If it be possible, as much as lieth in you, live peaceably with all men (Romans 12:18). LESSON DEPARTMENT 701 702 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1946 J siti eee as Revealed in Its Literature Lesson 3—Youthtime of a Nation Dedicated to Freedom Elder Howard R. Driggs For Tuesday, January 21, 1947 IP VAN WINKLE by Washington Irving, is at once a delightful old tale and a portrayai of contrasts. Before the henpecked Rip wandered off and fell into his long, strange sleep, his home town was a quiet Dutch village with its quaint folk and quaint colonial ways. When he awakened twenty years afterwards, and wandered back home: He found the house gone to decay— the roof fallen in, the windows shattered, and the doors off the hinges.... He called loudly for his wife and children; the lonely chambers rang for a moment with his voice, and then all again was silence. He now hurried forth, and hastened to his old resort, the village inn—but it too was gone. A large, rickety, wooden building stood in its place, with great gaping windows,... And over the door was painted, "The Union Hotel, by Jonathan Doolittle." Instead of the great tree that used to shelter the quiet little Dutch inn of yore, here now was reared a tall naked pole,... And from it was fluttering a flag, on which was a singular assemblage of stars and stripes. All this was strange and incomprehensible. He recognized on the sign, however, the ruby face of King George,... But even this was singularly metamorphosed. The red coat was changed for one of blue and buff, a sword was held in the hand instead of a scepter, the head was decorated with a cocked hat, and underneath was painted in large characters, GENERAL WASHINGTON. There was, as usual, a crowd of folk about the door, but none that Rip recollected. The very character of the people seemed changed. There was a busy, bustling, disputatious tone about it, instead of the accustomed phlegm and drowsy tranquility. He looked in vain for the sage Nicholas Vedder,... Or Van Bummel, the schoolmaster, doling forth the contents of an ancient newspaper. In place of these, a lean, bilious-looking fellow, with his pockets full of handbills, was haranguing vehemently about rights of citizens— election—members of Congress—liberty-—- Bunker's Hill—heroes of seventy-six—and other words which were a perfect Babylonish jargon to the bewildered Van Winkle. The appearance of Rip, with his long, grizzled beard, his rusty fowling piece, his uncouth dress, and the army of women * and children that had gathered at his heels, soon attracted the attention of the tavern politicians. They crowded round him, eyeing him from head to foot, with great curiosity. The orator bustled up to him, and... Inquited "on which side he voted." Rip stared in vacant stupidity. Another short but busy little fellow... Inquired in his ear "Whether he was Fed- _ eral or Democrat."... "Alas! Gentlemen," cried Rip, somewhat dismayed, "I am a poor, quiet man, a native of the place, and a loyal subject of the King, God bless him!" Here a general shout burst from the bystanders: "'A tory! A tory! A spy! A refugee! Hustle him! Away with him!" It was with great difficulty that the selfimportant man in the cocked hat restored order. Rip, as those who know the classic story will recall, finally was brought out of his tangle of troubles, restored to his children and friends. Gradually he came to a realization of some of the revolutionary changes that had taken place during his protracted sleep. He was told that there LESSON DEPARTMENT had been a war—"that the country had thrown off the yoke of Old England—and that, instead of being a subject of His Majesty George the Third, he was now a free citizen of the United States." Rip was indeed not the only one who was a bit bewildered over the changes that had come to America. It took many of the freed people some time before they could adjust themselves to the new liberties they had won. In the light of what is happening in various countries over the earth today, with freedom thrust upon them by the second world war, it should not be difficult to picture our own nation in its youthtime. There was just one basic difference then and now: young America had no clear, set pattern of self-government to follow. This, in large measure, had to be constructed. Words from Lincoln's Gettysburg Address state with force and clarity the serious problem that challenged the leaders who founded our country: Four score and seven years ago our Fathers brought forth on this continent a new nation, conceived in liberty, and dedicated to the proposition that all men are created equal. Now we are engaged in a great civil war, testing whether that nation, or any nation so conceived and so dedicated, can long endure. ) That was a grave question with many who saw the rise of young America and even helped in shaping its beginnings—would the nation live and last as a democracy? Folk, long accustomed to live under a monarchy, had sincere misgivings as to the outcome. Winning a war is one thing; winning a just and lasting peace is an- 703 other. It takes, as all the world is right now - beginning keenly to realize, the highest wisdom of peaceloving leaders to resolve a conflict —to turn the hearts and minds of men from destructive to constructive ways of life. Can we do it now? War, like a magnet, draws folk of different classes together to make common cause against a common foe. It was so with the Thirteen Colonies. Unity brought victory; what then? Naturally, with the enemy of all vanquished, there was a tendency for each colony to go its Own separate way. Would America, thus weakened, fall to another strong power? Will the nations, torn by dissensions, lose today what was so dearly won? Something of this kind, remember, happened to the Children of Israel. Led by Joshua, they had retaken the "Promised Land." Then, each of the tribes resettled its assigned portion. With the unifying force that had held them together during the conquest lessened, they suffered repeated attacks from surrounding enemies until they began to clamor for a king. This, Samuel, the great high priest, at first denied them; but when the word of the Lord came to the effect that the foolish people, having forsaken God, should be given their own unwise way, a king was appointed to rule them. Would youthful America repeat such history? Some felt strongly that a monarchy would be best for the new nation; and one went so far as to propose to Washington that he be king. The suggestion brought a stinging rebuff to the one that made it. In his poem "Washington 704- the Nation Builder" Edwin Markham wrote: When fortune flung him a crown, he flung The bauble back and followed the people's dream. How then, if not as a monarchy, could the young nation survive? How could the lofty ideals set forth in the Declaration of Independence be maintained? How might there be builded a "government of the people, by the people, for the people," that would "not perish from the earth?" A clear, sound answer came through another inspired document, the Constitution of the United States. This great charter of our liberties, we should remember, came as a rich fruitage of centuries of struggle and sacrifice on the part of patriots. It sets forth, with clarity and force, basic principles of freedom for which they fought and sometimes died. Its prime originality lies in the fact that here, for the first time, the world was given, in writing, a solid foundation for liberty. Our young nation wisely adopted it as the "Supreme Law of the Land." Its central purposes are clearly set forth in the preamble: We, the people of the United States, in order to form a more perfect Union, establish justice, insure domestic tranquility, provide for the common defense, promote the general welfare, and secure the blessings of liberty to ourselves and our posterity, do ordain and establish this CONSTITUTION for-the United States of America. "We the people" is the phrase of most vital significance. It represents a long climb upward from "T the king." It was clear recognition on the part of the framers of the ConRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1946 stitution of the prime source of fundamental rights and power in government: these rest in the ple. Officers chosen freely by popular vote are but representatives of the people who honor them by such selection. This was made plain in the great charter. The Bill of Rights—ten amendments specifically protecting the people in freedom of religion, of speech, of the press, and in other rights was adopted in 1791. These fundamental, and natural rights are now, as someone has said, "ingrained in our American natures." Many folk, who enjoy the blessings of peace and protection of their precious rights under our Constitution, seem to take these for granted. They appear to think little of the long years of struggle and devotion to great principles that it has taken to give us this bulwark of our. Iberties. If they did, they would bow their heads in gratitude for the patriotic men and women who gave their lives for liberty; and for the Founding Fathers whose vision, devotion, and courage gave us a new charter for the freedom they won. It was with a heart full of grattude for these blessings that Joseph Hopkinson created, in 1789, the first of our national anthems, to be sung at the inauguration of our first president, George Washington, who had justly won the tribute: "First in war, first in peace, and first in the hearts of his countrymen." With the background of this study to add significance, lines from that old song will ring with new meaning: Hail Columbia, happy land, Hail! Ye heroes, heav'n-born band, Who fought and bled in freedom's cause, Who fought and bled in freedom's cause, LESSON DEPARTMENT And when the storm of war was gone, Enjoyed the peace your valor won! Let independence be our boast, Ever mindful what it cost, Ever grateful for the prize, Let its altar reach the skies. We oe eK Sound, sound the trump of fame! Let Washington's great name Ring thro' the world with loud applause! Ring thro' the world with loud applause! Let ev'ry clime to freedom dear Listen with a joyful ear; With equal skill, with steady pow'r, He governs in the fearful hour Of horrid war, or guides with ease The happier time of honest peace. Refrain: Firm, united let us be, Rallying round our liberty, As a band of brothers joined, Peace and safety we shall find. While Washington, who had spurned a kingship, and had presided over the group of men who framed the Constitution, is naturally to be accorded first place among those Founding Fathers, there were other statesmen who should not be forgotten. Benjamin Franklin gave ripe wisdom to the work; Alexander Hamilton added his helpful contributions; while James Madison, not only gave invaluable assistance, but preserved an official and also intimate record of the proceedings. Besides these there were other fine, devoted minds to aid in laying the solid foundation for our new nation. Let it not be thought that this was to be the end of the building. It was indeed, only the beginning of a daring venture. Days immediately ahead would test the firmness of the structure that had been raised. Not only that, but the people themselves had to learn how to conduct themselves in accordance with the basic rules for self-government laid 705 down, or what they had built would be destroyed. Washington, as first President, had to meet serious internal disturbances like that of the "Whisky Rebellion." With firmness and justice he dealt with the problems, and strengthened the young nation. For eight years he guided its destinies through sun and storm; then, refusing a third term of office, he retired to a well-earned, less arduous service as proprietor of Mount Vernon. Respect for our new. Nation was being won at home, with pride growing in its achievements. How to win it abroad was the serious question. How to keep out of entanglements with foreign powers, as Washington in his Farewell Address advised, was an ever-present problem. It is still with us. During the youthtime of our: country, England and France were in an almost constant state of war. Both these nations rather arrogantly encroached on our rights as a free power; there was disregard, especially of the "freedom of the seas." Our Yankee ships came into clash with these and other offenders. Finally, during the administration of James Madison, a second war came with England. Fortunately, because Great Britain's hands were full with the struggle to defeat Napoleon, this War of 1812—so-called—was of comparatively brief duration. It was at this time that our stirring anthem "The Star Spangled Banner" was created. A brief analysis of that song will serve here in two ways: First, it will help to show the spirit of the young nation; and second, it should help us to sing the song with deeper understanding and more fervor than is usually done. Remember, first, that it was created during a critical battle. A British army had just taken our national capital. President Madison and his officers had been forced to flee. 'The British fleet, flushed with triumph, suddenly appeared before Baltimore, another key city, and launched an attack on Fort-McHenry, above which floated the Stars and Stripes. Francis Scott Key, a young American lawyer, trying to arrange for the freeing of a friend who was on one of the enemy ships, was held prisoner there while the battle to tear down his country's flag was on. Through the long night he paced the deck anxiously, waiting the doubtful outcome. Finally, to relieve his feelings, he took from his pocket a letter, and on the back of it wrote the lines that have rung down the years. Anxiety, uncertainty as to the battle's outcome, is the spint of the first stanza: Oh say, can you see, by the dawn's early light, What so proudly we hailed at the twilight's last gleaming? Whose broad stripes and bright stars, through the perilous fight, O'er the ramparts we watched were so gallantly streaming! In other words, is our flag still flying? Is the poet's troubled question. O say, does the star spangled banner yet wave, O'er the land of the free and the home of the brave?" The second stanza is one of recognition—and answer to the first. Morning breaks, and— On the shore, dimly seen through the mists of the deep, Where the foe's haughty host in dread silence reposes,; What is that which the breeze, o'er the towering steep, As it fitfully blows, now conceals, now discloses? Now it catches the gleam of the morning's first beam, In full glory reflected now shines on the stream; Then comes the line of joy and triumph— "Tis the star spangled banner! May it wave O'er the land of the free and the home of the brave. Oh, long The third stanza, sometimes omitted, yet a vital part of the song, is a taunt to the foe in defeat: And where is that band who so vauntingly swore That the havoc of war and the battle's confusion, A home and a country should leave us no _more? Their blood has washed out their foul footsteps' pollution. Finally comes the crowning stanza—one of dedication: Oh! Thus be it ever, when free men shall stand Between their loved homes and the wat's desolation! Blest with victory and peace, may the heaven-rescued land Praise the Power that hath made and preserved us a nation. Then conquer we must, for our cause it is just, And this be our motto: 'In God is our trust.' And the star spangled banner in triumph shall wave O'er the land of the free and the home of the brave. In light of this brief analysis, how unthinking and unappreciative is the common practice over the coun- 706 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1946 LESSON DEPARTMENT try of singing only the first stanza of our national anthem. If time permits of just one stanza, certainly 't should be the last one. This breathes the true spirit of our America, It has profound meaning for our nation always. Our flag — symbol of liberty through righteousness—has inspired poets through the years. Another lyric created during the youthtime of our nation by Joseph Rodman Drake, vibrates with the joy and uplift inspired by Old Glory. Following are typical stanzas from this poem "The American Flag." When Freedom from her mountain height Unfurled her standard to the air, _She tore the azure robe of night, And set the stars of glory there; She mingled with its gorgeous dyes The milky baldric of the skies, * And striped its pure, celestial white With streakings of the morning light; Then from his mansion in the sun She called her eagle bearer down, And gave into his mighty hand The symbol of her chosen land. Es *% eB * Flag of the free heart's hope and home, By angel hands to valor given; Thy stars have lit the welkin dome, And all thy hues were born in heaven. Forever float that standard sheet! Where breathes the foe but falls before us, With Freedom's soil beneath our feet, And Freedom's banner streaming o'er us? Dr. Timothy Dwight, one of the earlier presidents of Yale University, also gave us an ever-popular song of intensely patriotic spirit. Its first stanza follows: O Columbia, the gem of the ocean, The home of the brave and the free, The. Shrine of each patriot's devotion, A world offers homage to thee. Thy mandates make heroes assemble, When Liberty's form stands in view; 707 'Thy banners make tyranny tremble, When borne by the red, white, and bine All these, and other poems, are expressive of the spirit that brought our young nation into being and held it true to its course through the earlier years. In that same spirit of true patriotism, of trust in God, the author of liberty based on righteousness, America has carried on thus far triumphantly through all its testing difficulties. And, if our nation remain true to its divine trust, it will continue to be a land of freedom— a pattern for all the rest of the world. Discussion and Activities 1. A. Why does winning a peace require the highest type of Christian-minded statesmanship? B. Quote words from the Savior on the high place of the peacemaker. 2, a. Why were the days immediately following our war for freedom sometimes called the Dangerous Days? B. How did the making and adopting of the Constitution hold our nation true to its course as a land of freedom? 3. Quote from our Prophet Joseph Smith, or from President Brigham Young, statements to show that Latter-day Saints hold that the Founding Fathers were inspired in their work of creating this charter of our liberties. 4. What is implied for the world in these lines from Longfellow's "Building of the Ship?" Sail on, O Union, strong and great! Humanity with all its fears, With all its hopes of future years, Is hanging breathless on thy fate! 5. How does a clear knowledge of the story of the youthtime of our nation help one to appreciate problems being faced today by other nations in their struggle to win peace and lasting freedom? 6. What is one thing that comes from such a study as this that makes you more appreciative, more grateful for out America? References A brief history of the United States— such as a school text—will give essential facts concerning the period covered in this study. Constitution of the United States— usually found in history books. An inexpensive book, containing the Constitution and six other great documents, "which constitute the American way of life," is—The American Canon, by Daniel L. Marsh— Abingdon-Cokesbury Publishers. (This little volume is well worth possessing. ) The Golden Book of Favorite Songs, Hall McCready, Co., Chicago—used in M. I. A. —contains many of our national and other typically American songs. Untermeyer, Louis, American Poetry to Whitman. John C. South, The Story of Our Country in Poetry, contains other lyrics. Fiction portraying this period of our nation's youthtime is not so rich as that for some other periods. A few novels of merit dealing in general with the epoch are: The Conqueror, Atherton; Tree of Liberty, Elizabeth Page; Dri and I (War of 1812), Irving Bacheller; Captain Caution, Kenneth Roberts. Optional lessons in 2b sou of a iterature, The Gospel as a Way of Life Lesson 4—Repentance Elder T. Edgar Lyon For Tuesday, January 21, 1947 EPENTANCE is listed as the second principle of the gospel of Jesus Christ, following logically the principle of faith. When one has acquired and developed an abiding faith in God and the saving power of Christ's atoning sacrifice,* it is natural to seek release from the painful remembrance of one's former unrighteous conduct. The process by which this release from the consequences of sin is attained is the God-given principle of repentance. Sin is the violation of the pattern of living that is pleasing to God. Any departure from the course that God has given for the welfare of his children falls into the classification of sinful living. Many, however, are in great need of a repentance from wrong-believing and unChristian teachings. Until there is a repentance from these errors of doctrine, there can be no true acceptance of the atonement of Christ or the concept of a loving God and Father. To hold to erroneous beliefs would be offensive to God and *Latter-day Saints distinguish between a universal or unconditional salvation and a conditional or individual salvation, including exaltation. President John Taylor wrote: "He (Jesus) bore the weight of the sins of the whole world, not only of Adam, but of his posterity: and in doing that, opened the kingdom of heaven, not only to all behevers and all who obeved the law of God, but to more than one-half of the human family who die before they come to years of maturity, as well as to the heathen, who, 708 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1946 LESSON DEPARTMENT, 709 having died without law, will through His mediation be resurrected without law, and be judged without law, and thus participate, according to their capacity, works, and worth, in the blessings of His atonement." (Tavlor, Pres. John, Mediation and Atonement, pp. 148-149). We read in the Articles of Faith: "The individual effect of the atonement makes it possible for any and every soul to obtain absolution from the effect of personal sins, through the mediation of Chnist; but such saving intercession is to be invoked by individual effort as manifested through faith, repentance, and continued works of righteousness.... Exaltation is given to those only who by righteous effort have won a claim to God's merciful liberality by which it is bestowed.... In the kingdom of God there are numerous degrees or gradations provided for those who are worthy of them; in the house of our Father there are many mansions, into which only those who are prepared are admitted." (Talmage, James E., Articles of Faith, pp. 89, 91). Keep the one who believed in them estranged from the love and forgiveness that God desires to grant to those who seek him with repentant hearts and receptive minds. The process of repentance is a step-by-step change in life, voluntarily done on the part of the penitent wrongdoer. One theologian has named these steps, "Recognition, Remorse, Resolution and Retribution—the Four R's of Repentance." They represent a good summary of the process by which one seeks to change his life and become a worthy Christian. Before one can commence the work of repenting, there is need to be aware of having sinned. This brings the person to a condition in which he recognizes the nature of the sin that has been committed, and he becomes convinced that he did wrong. This first step is often one of the most difficult in the entire repentance process. We are so prone to justify our own conduct, that we have difficulty in convincing ourselves that we are guilty of wrong-doing. Nephi spoke of this geen of human frailty when he said: Yea, and there shall be many which shall say: Eat, drink. And be merry, for tomorrow we die; and it shall be well with us. And there shall also be many which shall say: Eat, drink, and be merry; nevertheless, fear God—he will justify in committing a little sin; yea, lie a little, take the advantage of one because of his words, dig a pit for thy neighbor; there is no harm in this; and do all these things, for tomorrow we die; and if it so be that we are guilty, God will beat us with a few stripes, and at last we shall be saved in the kingdom of God.... And thus the devil cheateth their souls, and leadeth them away carefully down to hell (II Nephi 28:7, 8, 21). Once, however, having gained a conviction that there has been a wrong done, the next step should be a regret or feeling of remorse because of the evil that has been committed. Unless this feeling of sorrow enters the soul, there is little likelihood that there will be any true repentance. 'There are innumerable souls who do wrong, frankly admit it, but seem to feel no remorse as a consequence of their acts, and go gaily along the path of continuous sinning. However, if the remorse is really present, the sinner desires to be relieved of the effects of the sin— both upon himself and upon others if they were involved by his conduct. In this condition, he seeks his Maker, supplicating for forgive- ness and confessing his sins. 'The confessing of sinful conduct is one of the greatest benefits that comes from repentance. 'The Lord has instructed us that we are required to confess our sins and stated that this was the test of real repentance. By this ye may know if a man repenteth of his sins—behold, he will confess them and forsake them (Doc. And Cov. 58:43. See also 19:20; 42:88-92 and 61:2). 'The act of confessing, although painful, has a wonderful effect upon the soul, giving it a new view of God's love and forgiveness, and a feeling of having overcome the sin, through recognition of it. Surely the embarrassment of confession is a small price to pay for the priceless boon of a relieved conscience and a feeling of oneness with God which it brings. There follows a third step that is necessary in the repentance plan. Recognition of wrong-doing and regret are not sufficient. The-test of the genuineness of repentance comes in the determination of the former sinner not only to forsake his sin, but in the resolution to sin no more. This is, of course, another test in the process to gain release from sin. 'I'rue repentance consists of forsaking the sin and returning to it no more. 'I'he success of the repentance process is measured at this stage by the firmness and sincerity of the resolution to sin no more. One who has been caught in the act of sinning may be forced to go through the first two steps because of external pressure brought to bear upon him, but the resolution to refrain from future sin is a matter of the will, not of force. If possible, the repenting sinner should, lastly, undertake to make restitution for the sins already committed. Sometimes this can be done by returning stolen goods or money, giving service to those against whom the sin was committed, or making other compensation for the evil done. In other cases a sincere confession of guilt or an apology may suffice. In still other cases, the retribution may have to remain on the mental level of improved thinking, that sinful beliefs may no longer hamper the free exercise of the mind. The apostle Paul, following his conversion, devoted his life to the Christian cause, feeling this to be the least that he could do to coimpensate for the evil that he had performed when _ pertsecuting. The Christians. In this way, he hoped to make the restitution as great or greater than the sin for which he held himself accountable. The parable of the prodigal son is an excellent illustration of these stages in repentance. After the willful separation from his home and family, and at the end of a period of sinful living, the young man found himself engaged as the most menial of all the hired laborers on a farm—a feeder of swine. Famine prevailed, and he envied the hogs who were able to eat, wishing that he might partake with them of the unpalatable husks upon which they existed. At this stage, the parable records, "he came to himself," that is, he came to recognize his sinful life. He had remorse as he thought of his former home and envied his father's hired help, who were much better off than he. Then came the resolution, "I will arise and go to my father." Here was the resolu- 710 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1946 LESSON DEPARTMENT tion to leave his sinful world. At home again, he said, "Father, I have sinned against heaven, and _ before thee, And am no more worthy to be called thy son:" He was seeking only to be classed as one of his father's hired helpers (Luke 15:11-32). Jesus pointed out in this ever-new story the steps that occur in the process of a sinner finding himself and returning to his God. In this dispensation the Lord has given specific commandments to the Church concerning its responsibility to preach repentance. 'To Hyrum Smith he said, "Say nothing but repentance unto this generation." To John Whitmer, the Lord said, "".... I say unto you, that the thing which will be of the most worth unto you will be to declare repentance unto this people, that you may bring souls unto me...." (Doc. And Cov. 11:9; 15:6; see also 16:6; 19:21). To Oliver Cowdery and David Whitmer was given this glorious promise with their call to missionary service: Remember the worth of souls is great in the sight of God; For, behold, the Lord vour Redeemer suffered death in the flesh; wherefore he suffered the pain of all men, that all men might repent and come unto him. And he hath risen again from the dead, that he might bring all men unto him, on conditions of repentance. And how great is his joy in the soul that repenteth! Wherefore, you are called to cry repentance unto this people. And if it so be that you should labor all your days in crying repentance unto this people, 71 and bring, save it be one soul unto me, how great shall be your joy with him in the kingdom of my Father! (Doc. And Cov. 18:10-15) Repentance is more than just a routine by which the sinner repents and accepts God and finds his Savior. It is a continuous process that must be practiced throughout life. Our concept of eternal progression should teach us that we must continually strive to repent of bad habits of action and thinking, and replace them with better ones. These again must give way to still greater improvements in habits of thought and conduct until we overcome all sin. Repentance is a principle of growth that should be practiced along with faith throughout mortality. Questions and Activity Problems 1. In what sense is confession a part of true repentance? Trace the steps taken by the repentant sinner in ascending from sin to the good life of a follower of Jesus Christ. 3. Have a class member give a reading from Alma 32:6-16 and Alma 34:28-35. This selection might be read to the accompaniment of soft music as a stimulating introduction to the lesson.. 4. During the lesson encourage the expression of appreciation for an understanding of the principle of repentance. Wv Reading and References Doctrine and Covenants, 64:9, 10. Talmage, Articles of Faith, 109-116. Teachings of the Prophet Joseph Smith, pp. 148, 197, 240. Smith, President Joseph F., Gospel Doctrine, pp. 117, 118. Social Science—The Family in the Gospel Plan Lesson 3—The Importance of Child Training Social Science Committee, Leone O. Jacobs, Chairman For Tuesday. January 28, 1947 Lesson Link: In the previous lesson, ""The Family Organization," we considered essential attributes of husband and wife and the rights and responsibilities of various members of the family. In this lesson we will discuss fundamental principles of child training, stressing the importance of the good example to be set by the parents. Objective: To give specific guidance in child training and to stress the need of developing sound practices in the important calling of parenthood. HILD training is an art of the _first order. Intelligent application of this art is perhaps needed at the present time more than any other thing. Child delinquency has assumed such alarming proportions as to indicate that parents may not be fulfilling their responsibilities toward their children: It is a lamentable fact that often no preparation is made for this most important profession. Education and training are demanded in all phases of business, science, and othet fields of endeavor, but in the most noble profession of all, that of parenthood, no training is expected. There are courses in child training being given in our universities, and more students, particularly _ girls, who will be the mothers of the fu- 'ture, should study these courses. Child training demands a great amount of self-control and common sense on the part of parents. Children react so differently to the same experiences that it is a puzzle to always determine the proper treat- _ ment.~. We know that each child is individual in his make-up and that the same rules cannot be applied to everyone alike. There are some principles of child training, however, which are fundamentally sound and which, if consistently followed, will build sound characters. Essentials in Child Training First of all, child training should begin very early. Solomon of old said, "Train up a child in the way he should go; and when he is old, he will not depart from it" (Proverbs 22:6), Parents too often underrate the intelligence of a child by thinking he knows very little until he can talk plainly. The day a child is born is the time to begin his training. Behavior patterns begin from that day. Habits in order, in courtesy, in control of the emotions, and many others, can be taught very tiny children. Most of the routine habits and standards of conduct can be well defined in preschool years. Child training must be persistent to be effective. No habit is formed except by repetition. President McKay gave the following quotation of Luther Burbank, the great plant wizard, who said: 712 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1946 LESSON DEPARTMENT Above all, bear in mind repetition—the use of an influence over and over again, keeping everlastingly at it. This is what fixes traits in plants, the constant repetition of an influence until at last it ls irrevocably fixed and will not change. You cannot afford to get discouraged. You are dealing with something far more precious than any plant—the precious soul of a child! One of President Grant's favorite quotations also bears out this idea: That which we persist in doing becomes easier for us to do; not that the nature of the thing itself is changed, but that our power to do is increased (Gospel Standards, page 355). In a certain kindergarten, it was the rule that the children remove their own galoshes and set them neatly in a closet. It was necessary to remind the children of this responsibility a varying number of times. One child was reminded seventeen times before. This habit became fixed. Example is a vital principle of child training, and wields more influence than all the preaching that may be done. A proper example is the greatest assurance parents have that their children will grow into upright citizens. Children are great imitators and are very susceptible to the things they see. Brigham Young said: If parents will continually set before their children examples worthy of their imitation and the approval of our Father in Heaven, they will turn the current, and the tide of feelings of their children, and they, eventually, will desire righteousness more than evil (Discourses of Brigham Young, page 322; 1941 edition, page 208). It is in the home that children learn to distinguish between right and wrong. Standards are set by the parents. It is quite useless to 713 say, "Do as I say, but not as I do." The story is told of a Sunday School class in which the teacher was reciting the evils and consequences of drinking beer and liquor. After she had gone on at some length, a small boy raised his hand and said, ""Teacher, it isn't wrong to drink beer. My mama and daddy drink beer." His parents had set the standard and what they did was right to him. The attitude parents have toward Church authorities and sustaining the law of the land is very important. A child will learn to criticise the General Authorities and to disregard the law more readily by hearing criticism in the home than in any other way. Children develop attitudes of what they consider to be right and wrong largely through the attitude of the parents shown by disapproval or rewards in regard to their actions. Those acts which bring upon the child disfavor or punishment come to be avoided and to be regarded as wrong by the child, while those which bring praise and commendation become desirable and, therefore, in the mind of the child are right. This is as it should be. If a child is shown no displeasure for the transgression of rules, he sees no reason why he should not repeat the act. Likewise, if a child is given no praise nor encouragement from performing well a prescribed act, he will see no incentive for repeating it. A child should learn that happiness comes through conformity to right principles; freedom is really conformity to right principles. Many authorities on child welfare believe parents are lax in administering both punishment and praise. For 714 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1946 a number of years the trend was not to inhibit a child, and the pendulum swung so far in that direction that in many homes restraint became almost entirely removed. 'This resulted in disrespect for parental guidance. Restraint is good for everyone—young and old. An eminent child psychologist has said it is the responsibility of parents to prepare their children to do without them. This, at first, may sound rather heartless, but is right, nevertheless. Children should be trained to take their places in the world, to be able to stand on their own feet, make their own decisions —in other words, they should be equipped to meet life. Essential Principles What principles of training contribute to successful adulthood, which ones equip a child to meet life? It is very important that children be given responsibility and that they leam how to work. From early childhood they should be given regular duties and assignments. Many children, especially those living in cities, are asked to do very little. Parents who do not find work for a child to do, who do not teach him to be proud of honest toil and to do his work well, are doing that child a grave injustice. There is no reason why boys in the city, lacking farm or other outside duties, should not help with the housework, scrub floors, clean the basement, wash windows, etc. Because it requires so much time and patience, mothers are prone to do many things themselves rather than train the children to do them well. 'This is detrimental to the children. Dependability is a virtue of great worth and should be implanted in a child at an early age. Jimmy Done was expected, among other things, to fill the woodbox each evening. One evening he played ball with the boys until quite late, came in tired, and, forgetting the wood, went to bed. Brother Done came home from a meeting about ten o'clock, saw the woodbox empty and Jimmy asleep. He awakened the boy, made him dress and go out in the dark for the wood. This was not an unkindness, but good training in dependability. A child should never be allowed to neglect an assignment or slip away without fulfilling it. Continuous follow-up work is therefore necessary and it. Will prove very worthwhile. Never tell a child to do anything unless you see that he does it. Firmness without undue severity will bring results. Parents should always keep the promises they make. Quoting Brigham Young: What did you promise your little girl if she would do so and so? Did you promise her a present for well doing? "Yes." Have you recollected it? '"'No, it has gone from my mind," says the mother. If she does ill have you promised her a chastisement? "Yes." Did you keep your word? You have not, and the child forms the conclusion in its own mind directly that the mother tells that which is not true.. If you wish to make them presents, do so; if you promise a chastisement, keep your word (Discourses of Bigham Young, pp. 325-326; 1941 edition, page 210). Teamwork is important in the home, all pulling together and each member receiving due recognition. Sometimes, though parents may be wholly unconscious of so doing, the child that is the most demonstrative, LESSON DEPARTMENT or the voungest, or the most aggressive, ls given more favors and advantages than the others. This should never be, for it is unfair treatment. Children sense it very keenly and resent it. Along with laxness in maintaining parental authority has come also a let down in courtesy. Nothing is so refining as the little words and deeds of consideration to others which spell politeness. It has been said, "Courtesy is understood in any language and is an open sesame to the doors of strangers." Only when courtesy is practiced in the home does it really become a part of one's everyday life. Respect for the nghts of others is an integral part of courtesy. Methods of Correction Correction and chastisement are often necessary in training children. We may pattern our conduct in such matters on the words of the Doctrine and Covenants given as advice to Priesthood members: Reproving betimes with sharpness. And then showing forth afterwards an increase of love toward him whom thou hast reproved, lest he esteem thee to be his enemy. Stern issuing of commands may bring temporary response from small children, but older ones may rebel against too severe parental authority. President Joseph F. Smith has said: More can be accomplished for good by unfeigned love, in bringing up a child, than by any other influence that can be brought to bear upon it. A child that cannot be conquered by the lash, or subdued by violence, may be controlled in an instant by unfeigned affection and sympa thy (Gospel Doctrine, page 368). 715 President George Albert Smith has said, "Love people into doing things. If you cannot get them to do as you wish through love, there is no other way." Bring up your children in the love and fear of the Lord; study their dispositions and their temperaments, and deal with them accordingly, never allowing yourself to correct them in the heat of passion; teach them to love you rather than to fear you.... (Discourses of Brigham Young, page 320; 1941 edition, page 207). Isolation as a means of correction for young children is most effective. Nonconformity to rules results in the child being taken away from the group. Kindergartens and nursery schools use this method of control. A magazine article disclosed the fact that this was the method of punishment used in the rearing of the Dionne quintuplets. Some authorities on child training say that a punishment should be related to the offense whenever possible. A child who does not bring his tricycle in at night should not be allowed to use it for one or two days. If Mary does not come when called to help wash and dry the dishes, she should have to do them alone the next night. If Jack does not come in from play when called, tomorrow he should forego that pleasure. Love Versus Indulgence There is a form of parental love which is detrimental to children. It is the love which indulges to excess. Sometimes parents say, "Well I don't want my children to have as hard a life as I had," or "I want to give my children a lot of the things I couldn't have." They do not realize that many times they are mak- 716 ing their children selfish, proud, and ungrateful. Someone has - said, "Mothers too often rule with their hearts rather than with their minds," inferring that mothers sometimes indulge children because they are softhearted, even though wisdom would tell them it is not right. Some parents are so sympathetic they cannot administer punishment even when they know it is deserved. President Joseph F. Smith has said: God's ways of educating our desires are, of course, always the most perfect.. And what is God's way? Everywhere in nature we are taught the lessons of patience and waiting. We want things a long time before we get them, and the fact that we wanted them a long time makes them all the more precious when they come.... It is... Most unfortunate for children when their parents greatly weaken or almost wholly destroy the children's capacity for the enjoyment of some of the most wholesome pleasures of life. The child who has everything he wants and when he wants it is really to be pitied, for he has no ability to enjoy it.... It is just as wrong systematically to give a child everything he desires as to deny the child everything (Gospel Doctrine, pp. 372- 373). Real love recognizes the value of wise guidance, gives affection its proper place, and deals gently but firmly with the child. Constructive Influence of Praise Every human being desires recognition—to be accepted by the group. This is an inbom desire and, for normal development, this need should be satisfied. * Many children are starved for praise. Most parents would not think of letting their children go hungry or without adequate clothing. But they do let them go for months without a word of praise or approval. Encouragement is oxygen to RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1946 the soul. Children love to rate in the eyes of their parents. Condemnation is bitter and failure deadens ambition. Children, and adults as well, need encouragement to give zest to living, to build initiative and _self-confidence. A boy never left home because of encouragement and kindness, but many have left home because they never received any approval. An experiment was conducted in a school for the blind, while the students were learning to typewrite. It was found that when the children were praised for their work, they could type more words per minute than when they were scolded. Praise inspires children to live up to their highest possibilities. Many years ago in Naples there lived a boy and his mother. 'They were poor but the boy wanted one thing in life—to become a singer. His teachers discouraged him, telling him he would never become an opera singer because the range of his voice was so limited. Only his mother praised and encouraged him. As time went on, she said she saw improvement in his voice and encouraged him to continue. She worked hard and sacrificed to pay for his lessons. Because of his perseverance and his mother's encouragement, he became one of the world's greatest tenors—Enrico Caruso. There is no failure except from no longer trying. There is no defeat except from within. Mothers, remember that training your children is the most profitable business in which you can engage. LESSON DEPARTMENT Your household tasks should be secondary to training the children. A clean house and well prepared meals are essential but the habits which your children form are of much greater importance. Questions for Discussion 1. Discuss the importance of parental example in child training. 2. Why is it important that children be given responsibility? Discuss. 3. Is courtesy in the home important? Discuss.. 4. Have members who have reared their families tell successful methods of child training. 5. What results have you experienced with isolation as a means of correction? Discuss. 77 6. What are the harmful results of overindulgence? Discuss. 7- Give illustrations wherein encouragement spurred individuals on to great achievement. References Discourses of Brigham Young, Family," pp. 318-328. Grant, President Heber J.: Gospel Standards, "Women, Marriage and Family Life," PP- 154-156; Pp. 354-355- McKay, President David O.: "Marriage and Divorce," page 239, Improvement Era, May 1945. Pratt, Orson: "Plain Talk to Parents," page 147, Improvement Era, March 1946. Smith, President Joseph F.: Gospel Doctrine, "Marriage, the Home and the Family," Pp. 357-374: West, Roy A.: "Family Eternal." ""Mhe PARADE Grace M. Candland The summer has passed; its quiet parade Of budding. And bloom and its cooling shade Are only a dream, a faded brocade. What joy I have missed I scarcely can guess, The flight of the hours and ceaseless stress 'Have blinded my eyes to earth's loveliness. I am quite sure I neglected to go Down to the creek where the wild roses grow, Or look at the fruit-laden trees below. But autumn is here, its colors outspread, My hunger for beauty is amply fed, And I shall enjoy this glory instead. IN SIBILANT REGRET Courtney Cottam When Autumn fills October's solitude With anthems born in loneliness and grief, The twig-lace shadows emphasize its mood Of quietness; each sere and frost-crisped leaf, Drifting to earth, intones a slow motet; A song of sorrowing and soft lament, Fall's requiem in sibilant regret, | A broken whisper from its soul, now spent. My heart, in close affimity with fall, Stirs with strange moods, primeval and intense, Stalking the years, entangling my soul; It is as if some haunting, distant call Binds with the Autumn's earthy, pungent scents. The sorrow-songs of earth into one whole. GOLDEN NUGGETS OF THOUGHT A charming little book that everyone likes. Pocket size—carry it with you. Choice quotations from the writings of the wise. The title describes the book. $1.00 HIGHWAY HELPS LIGHTS ALONG LIFE'S GREAT HIGHWAY Short discussions (150 of them) on the gospel and other subjects. Each offers 5 to 15 minutes of inspirational reading and food for more and better thinking. $2.00 AND ALL LATTER-DAY SAINT BOOKS Wouldn't you like to have hand home. A price list of all the boo in your of the Church? It is free to you for the asking. Just | write your name and address very plainly and | mail to: EZRA L. MARLER BOOKS BY MAIL P. O. Box 267, Salt Lake City. Utah CAs should always be the result when energy is expended. Yet. Like a dizzily spinning top. Many businesses go 'round in the preparation of advertising and get nowhere. Month after month, the same thing happens again and again and nothing is accomplished but the expenditure of dollars that could be made to produce results. The function of a printing organization today is to help clients to plan printing that builds sales—to take copy and dramatize it. Make it so irresistibly attractive that it must naturally draw the reader's attention. The waste of which we speak is often due to lack of understanding. Realization of this has made us sales minded. Your selling problem, and our experience puts us in a position fo print your sales story so that it will get results. THE DESERET NEWS PRESS 29 Richards Street—Salt Lake City, Utah Page 718 A Frank Discussion of Life's KKK XK WHAT OTHERS BELIEVE - - To understand and appreciate better our own beliefs, we need to know something about others. Here is the opportunity. HIS MANY MANSIONS by Rulon S. > Howells, analyzes—authoritatively—our own and twelve other Christian churches. Order these books now—by mail # or from your local dealer... And ask for folders and complete book list. Greatest Venture FAMILY ETERNAL, by Roy A. West —a reference book for the Relief Society "Social Science" lessons. Here is a book vitally important to L. D. S. Families—those already established and those of tomorrow. Fascinating, helpful... The outgrowth of many years of specialized education and research, and practical experience with modern youth and the homes from which they come. BOOK CRAFT sarc ae: A BOOKCRAFT BOOK IS ALWAYS A CHOICE GIFT BACK OF THE STORY OF JOSEPH SMITH Between the Covers of thi Book — Is the story back of the story of Joseph Smith—The Latter-day Prophet. Here is the factual basis for all of his unique claims you have been awaiting and need to know. THE AUTHOR, James H. Anderson, was an outstanding student of scripture and history. He was the first secretary of the Genealogical Society of Utah. He has written about YOUR RACIAL FAMILY and birthright. This beautifully bound book and chart will pleasantly surprise you. For your own library—or for a friend you want to please at Christmas time—send in your order now. (CUT HERE AND MAIL TODAY) EARL W. HARMER, Publisher 945 So. 7th East, Salt Lake City 4, Utah Please send postpaid the books checked below: LJ GOD'S COVENANT RACE..... W.. Nee cececeeseeececeeeeeenee wees _—....$2.00 By James H. Anderson {) THE STORY OF THE MORMON PIONEERS: senssccseseasseseneeesesees+ 000 By Mabel] Harmer By Mabel Harmer [LD *DENNIS AND THE MORMON BATTALION ee --2---§2.00 By Mabel Harmer * Written expressly for young people. Check or money order enclosed CL) Send C. O. D. Nene —______.......... Eee.. Cee Ee eS. Address 0 *FAMOUS MASCOTS AND K-9'8 00.00......--csccceceeecsoceeeseoee acecessctsesacecasnectscsccscnsenscenensesecesenens= PhD MUS) Specially Suitable for Relicf Soctety MY REDEEMER LIVES (Gates).....18 I WILL EXALT THEE, O LORD (Harris) =e 15 O LORD MOST HOLY (Franck).15 HOLY REDEEMER (Marchelli).15 PEACE I LEAVE WITH YOU (O20) 6.) 9) rer10 23RD PSALM (Schubert) _.. Ls IN THY FORM (Madsen) 10 Above numbers in octavo. S. S. A. Postage additional. We specialize in L. D. S. Church music. Also 'arry large stock for schools and home use. Dealers in Steinway and Lester pianos, band and orchestra instruments, talking machines, zecords and musicians' supplies. MTOM DA YNES MUSIC CO. We solicit your patronage 57 S. Main St. Salt Lake City 1 BOOKS You'll Need for Reference Upon the following titles are based many important parts of the 1946-47 Relief Society Lesson Course: "THE GOSPEL KINGDOM" "BRIGHAM YOUNG, THE $ 8 President Jon Taylor en DLLO Boston Mme Oe... $2.50 "THE GOSPEL THROUGH "ESSENTIALS IN CHURCH Milton R. Hunter... Eens Joseph Fielding Smith $2.00 "GOSPEL DOCTRINE" ee _ Lainey? President Joseph F. Smith.......... $2.50 pide es he Ts $] 25 es a i aes JOSEPH SMITH" "EVI ENCES ND Joseph Fielding Smith......0........... $2.25 RECONCI'. A $l 85 a WAY TO PERFECJohn A. Widtsoe........ -.: ON" Joseph Fielding Smith... 7 $1.50 "DISCOURSES OF - 2 DISCOURSES OF WILFORD $2.50 BRIGHAM YOUNG $2.50 WOODRUFF "RESTORATION OF ALL "GOSPEL STANDARDS" THINGS" President Heber J. Grant......... $2. 25 Toseph Fielding Smith. Sl. 75 DESERET BOOK COMPANY THE BOOK CENTER OF THE INTERMOUNTAIN WEST 44 East South Temple P, O. Box 958 Salt Lake City 10, Utah Enclosed is $......................... Send the titles as checked above. |: 5 |: Add res.............. Coccccccccseeeseeeseeeeeereeees — When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine May there always be milk in his glass and mush on the table. INSURANCE ("COMPANY © F Arosa pa SALT LAKE CITY, UTATI CEORCE ALBERT SMITH, President THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Monthly publication of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints RELIEF SOCIETY GENERAL BOARD - President First Counselor Second Counselor Secretary-Treasurer Leone G. Layton Leone O. Jacobs Belle S. Spafford Marianne C. Sharp Gertrude R. Garff Margaret C. Pickering Achsa E. Paxman Edith S. Elliott Mary G. Judd Priscilla L. Evans Blanche B. Stoddard Velma N. Simonsen Luella N. Adams Florence J. Madsen Evon W. Peterson Isabel B. Callister Anna B. Hart Ann P. Nibley RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Editor - - - - - - - - - - Marianne C. Sharp Vesta P. Crawford Belle S. Spafford No. 11 Editorial Secretary General Manager Vol. 33 NOVEMBER 1946 Contents SPECIAL FEATURES FICTION Norma Wrathall 742 Martha Robeson Wright 757 Christie Lund Coles 762 The Luxury of Giving As You Were Faith Is a Heritage—Chapter 8 GENERAL FEATURES LESSON DEPARTMENT Work Meeting—Sewing: Pinning, Basting, Pressing, Edges and Seam Finishings Work Meeting Committee 777 Social Science: Observing a Principle of Prosperity —..0.0........ Es: se-Social Science Committee 786 POETRY Words... Dorothy J. Roberts 728 Keys........ Clarence Edwin Flynn 735 Night Bernice Hacking Balle 741 Autumn Wind. The Jungle Tree.. Friendly Town........ Consolation...... Katherine Fernelius Larsen 749 Elsie F. Parton 749 Bertha A. Kleinman 753 Zara Sabin 761 Hill-Top House Old Leaves....... Vossesee Beatrice K. Ekman 790 PUBLISHED MONTHLY BY THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY Editorial and Business Offices: 28 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City 1, Utah, Phone 3-2741. Ex. 243. Subscription Price: $1.00 a year; foreign, $1.00 a year; payable in advance. Single copy, 10c. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving both old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts. MAGAZINE CIRCULATION, 77,500 Relief Society Women Received at the White House Inter-Continental Conference of the National Council of Women A Visit to Church Shrines Pioneer Stories and Incidents: On the River Platte 'What Shall I Do Now, Mother?'' Sixty Years Ago Woman's Sphere........ Editorial: ''She Looketh Well to the Ways of Her Household" Notes From the Field Theology: More Auxiliary Organizations of the Church Started Visiting Teachers' Messages: Industry Literature: Westward March of America Optional Lessons in Lieu of Literature: Baptism Where Dreams Were Made—Frontispiece President Belle S. Spafford 723 Priscilla L. Evans 729 Edith S. Elliott 736 President Amy Brown Lyman 747 Elizabeth Williamson 754 750 Ramona W. Cannon 751 Marianne C. Sharp 752 General Secretary-Treasurer, Margaret C. Pickering 766 Elder H. Wayne Driggs 773 President Amy Brown Lyman 776 Elder Howard R. Driggs 778 Elder T. Edgar Lyon 783 Anna Prince Redd 721 THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE WHERE DREAMS WERE MADE Anna Prince Redd Our ranch house of log and mortar Was close by the foot of a hill That held back the sun in the morning, Only to let it spill Out over the lake where vagrant ripples Answered the breeze, And silver stipples Of dancing light patterned the aspen trees. Along the shore Pink-tinted shells, minutely laid, Frescoed a cool, deep corridor Where dreams were made.... With summer gone, November's sky A cloud bank hiding the sun, We would stack the milk pails high On a shelf that hung from the ceiling, Where spiders spun A gleaming web on every can Of butter left for the hired man. Out on the lake no wave rolled in; The water, congealing, Heavy and blue as beveled glass, Became a highway for wagons and herds to pass To town, a lonely line and thin.... I have never really gone away From the ranch, the lake, the cool, deep shade Where dreams were made. The Cover: "The Joseph Smith Farm, Palmyra, New York' Courtesy, The Deseret News VOL. 33, NO. 11 NOVEMBER 1946 fal 5 5 od O A 2 O a ea - a6 ro | oe Photograph by Fellowcrafts Studio Relief Society Women Received at the White House President Belle S. Spafford, N 1880, during a visit of President Rutherford B. Hayes and Mrs. Hayes to Salt Lake City, Mrs. Hayes was presented with a "silk lace fichu, as a souvenir of her visit to the City of the Saints." The silk had been raised by Mrs. Schneiter of that city, and the article manufactured by Mrs. Ursenbach. On May 2, 1946, history repeated itself in that again a First Lady of this great nation was presented with a gift of handwork from Relief Society women. This time the gift was taken to Washington by delegates of the Society and presented to Bess Truman (Mrs. Harry S. Truman), in the elegantly furnished Red Room of the White House. The idea that Relief Society women should visit the White House and present Mrs. Truman with a gift representative of the handwork of Latter-day Saint women, and explain to her the work of Relief Society, originated with President George Albert Smith. Early in the month of December 1945, President Smith called Sister Spafford into his office and suggested that such a trip be made. Due to the fact that Christmas was near, and that Relief Society was. Unusually busy with the European relief program, and that the weather was inclement, the trip was delayed until the spring. Through the courtesy of the Honorable Herbert B. Maw, Governor of Utah, arrangements were made with the White House to have Mrs. Truman receive the Relief Society delegates on Thursday, May 2, 1946, at eleven A. M. An invitation was extended by President Smith and the Relief So ciety General Board to Mrs. Florence B. Maw, wife of Governor Maw, to accompany President Belle S. Spafford, Sister Edith S. Elliott, and Sister Priscilla L. Evans, members of the General Board, to Washington on this important and auspicious occasion. The group left Salt Lake City on the morning of April 28. That this was a history-making event in the life of Relief Society was evidenced by the group who gathered at the station to bid the sisters bon voyage. President George Albert Smith honored the occasion by his presence, and, in addition, there were present Counselor Marianne C. Sharp, General Secretary-Treasurer Margaret C. Pickering, and several other members of the General Board, together with many frends and family members of those who were leaving on this important and unusual mission. It was a beautiful spring - morning, and the hearts of all were glad for the opportunity that had come to Relief Society to acquaint so distinguished a person as Mrs. Truman with the work of this great Society. It was an exciting moment for all as the train pulled out of the Page 723 station and good-byes were waved. Prior to leaving, an exquisite crocheted, white lace tablecloth had been selected from the many beautiful handmade articles at the Mormon Handicraft Shop to be presented to Mrs. Truman. The cloth measured about sixty-three by eightyfour inches before it was blocked, and was the work of Sister Addie E. Hardy, wife of the late Elder Rufus K. Hardy of the First Council of the Seventy. The cloth was made while Sister Hardy remained at home during the time Elder Hardy was serving as a missionary in the South Sea Isles. The cloth, made from very fine thredd, required two years to complete. Although it appeared to be made of medallions crocheted together, it was, in reality, made all in one piece—a dainty, exquisite piece of handwork, one of the finest pieces of its kind ever to come into the Handicraft Shop. Through the efforts of Mrs. Lucile B. Wolf, manager of the Mormon Handicraft Shop, a special box and wrappings were provided, as well as a hand-painted gift card A GIFT FOR THE FIRST LADY President Spafford admires the crocheted lace tablecloth to be presented to Bess W. Truman, wife of President Harry S. Truman. Left to right: Priscilla L. Evans, Edith S. Elliott, and President Spafford, members of the General Board; and Florence B. Maw, wife of Hon. Herbert B. Maw, Goyernor of Utah. This photograph was taken in the Board room in the Bishop's Building. The painting of former President Amy Brown Lyman may be seen in the background 724 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER 1946 GREETINGS FROM THE RELIEF SOCIETY showing the sego lily, the Utah state flower. The card was the handwork of Rhea C. Dobson. On the card, in the handwriting of President Spafford, were inscribed these words: Dear Mrs. Truman,; The Relief Society women of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints are honored to present to you, the First Lady of our great Nation, as an exPression of our esteem, this lace tablecloth characteristic of the handwork of Latterday Saint women. We hope you will enjoy using it, and that it will serve to remind you that rare handwork skills are being perpetuated by our Society. Sincerely, Belle S. Spafford President — ENCLOSED with the tablecloth in the gift package, which was tied with wide, gold and blue (Relief Society colors) ribbon, was a blue, leather-bound copy of A Centenary of Relief Society, with the name "Bess Truman" on the front cover in gold lettering. A note from Sister Hardy, telling about her work in making the tablecloth, was also enclosed. The delegates carried the carefully wrapped gift with them. The group reached? Washington late Monday evening, April 29, giving them the opportunity of spending two days with friends and Relief Society women prior to the White House visit. On Thursday moming, May 2, preliminary to going to the White House, the General Board representatives were joined at the Mayflower Hotel, where they were stayRELIEF SOCIETY WOMEN RECEIVED AT THE WHITE HOUSE 725 GREETING CARD WHICH WAS PRESENTED TO MRS. TRUMAN ing, by the following women who had previously been invited by the General Board to accompany the women from Salt Lake to the White House to make the presentation: Mrs. Abe Murdock (Mary Violet Yardley), wife of Senator Murdock Mrs. J. Will Robinson (Birda Billings), wife of Representative Robinson Mrs. Herbert B. Maw (Florence Buehler), wife of the Governor of Utah Mrs. W. H., King (Vera B. Sjodahl), wife of former Senator King Miss Ethel Evans, fiancee of Senator Elbert D. Thomas Mrs. E. B. Brossard (Laura P. Cowley), wife of President Brossard of Washington Stake Mrs. Emest L. Wilkinson (Alice Ludlow) wife of the first counselor, Washington Stake Mrs. J. W. Marriott (Alice Sheets), wife of the second counselor, Washington Stake Mrs. R. A. Gwynn (Gwendolyn Thomas), President, Washington Stake Relief Society. Mrs. Lynn B. Lundberg (Elese Barlow), First Counselor, Washington Stake Relief Society Mrs. W. T. Thurman (Zettella Wheeler), Second Counselor, Washington Stake Relief Society Mrs. Walter K. Granger (Hazel Dalley), wife of Congressman Granger, had also been invited, but due to absence from the city, was not present. Mrs. Gus P. Backman (Nance Davis) joined the group at the White House. Leaving the hotel, the group drove to the White House. Through Governor Maw, tickets, each one inscribed with a particular woman's name, had been issued. The card issued to President Spafford read: Mrs. Belle S. Spafford Will please present this ticket at the northwest gate THE WHITE HOUSE May 2, 1946 11 o'clock a. M. Not Transferable These tickets admitted the party to the grounds and also into the White House, where they were taken up by the doorman. Upon entering the White House, an attendant ushered the women into the gorgeous Red Room, so named because of the elegant red satin tapestry wall coverings, matching draperies, and the deep red tones in the floor coving and furnishings. It was an exciting, tense, serious moment for the women, as they awaited the arrival of Mrs. Truman. It is not a common experience for anyone to be received by the First Lady of our Land, and, for this group, 726 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER 1946 serving as Relief Society representatives, it was a first time. Al] keenly sensed, at that moment, their responsibility toward Relief Society. On the mantel in the Red Room was a rare, old clock that had been Presented to the White House by Thomas Jefferson. Just as it chimed the hour of eleven, an attendant announced Mrs. Truman. As she entered the room, everyone arose. She wore a neat black dress with street length skirt, the blouse having a white lace front, Mrs. Maw stepped forward, introduced herself, said a few words of greeting, and then introduced the First Lady to each of the women in turn. Utah women were very proud, that moment, of Utah's First Lady. Poised, friendly, attractive, she well represented our own beloved State. Mrs. Truman cordially shook hands with Courtesy, Acme Pictures, Inc. FIRST LADY RECEIVES RELIEF SOCIETY MEMBERS each one, exchanged a few words of greeting, then bade everyone to be seated. A few moments of informal conversation followed. At an opportune moment durin the conversation, President Spafford, indicating that she had brought from Relief Society women, as a tok. En of esteem, a gift for Mrs. Truman, arose and made the presentation. As she did so, she briefly explained the work of this international Society of Latter-day Saint women. Mrs. Truman graciously accepted the gift, asking if she might open it ~a request to which President Spafford readily assented, since most of the group had not Previously seen the tablecloth. Mrs. Truman carefully undid the wrapping. Then, lifting the cloth from the box, and draping it artistically over her extended arm, exGwendolyn T. Gwynn; Zettella W. Thurman; Priscilla L. Evans; Else B. Lundberg; Edith S. Elliott; Nance D. Backman; President Belle S. "Spafford:. Maw; Birda B. Robinson; Mary Y. Murdock; Alice L. Wilkinson; Vera S, King; Laura C. Brossard. RELIEF SOCIETY WOMEN RECEIVED AT THE WHITE HOUSE 727 claimed with sincere admiration: "This is beautiful! And this is for me!" Then, after a moment's pause, as if by way of explanation, she added: "I mean, this is something I can take with me when I leave here and return to my own home! Thank you." This "thank you" was later followed by the following letter from Mrs. Truman: THE WHITE HOUSE WASHINGTON May 3, 1946 My dear Mrs. Spafford: The beautiful tablecloth which the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints presented to me will always be a treasured souvenir. Will you express my appreciation to the members of your group for this generous gift and for the message which accompanied it, as well as for the book containing the interesting record of the achievements of your Relief Society since it was founded. Sincerely, (Signed) Bess W. Truman Thus, Mrs. Bess Truman, a woman whose home is in Independence, Missouri, a name significant to Latter-day Saints everywhere, serving this nation as its First Lady, received a gift of handwork characteristic of the handwork of thousands of women who are members of Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints—women who have for more than one hundred years been active in preserving and encouraging rare handwork skills, in addition to their many other activities. Mrs. Truman commented upon the book A Centenary of Relief Society, asking many questions regarding our history and our work, affording splendid opportunity for those present to acquaint her with Relief Society and the great purposes of this organization. Following the interview, the group, including Mrs. Truman, went to the front portico of the White House, where the accompanying photograph was taken. Upon re-entering the White House, Mrs. Truman asked if the delegates would care to be shown some of the rooms. This courtesy was accepted, and, accompanied by an attendant, the group enjoyed an interesting hour. Mrs. Truman will ever remain in the minds of those present as a woman of refinement and charm. Her warm, friendly graciousness made the occasion a delightful one, long to be remembered. Good should grow out of this White House visit because, through it, one who mingles with those in high positions of state met typical Relief Society women and _ heard their wonderful story. Out of this should grow understanding, and the fruits of understanding are good. > WORDS Dorothy J. Roberts There are words that form the vestibule Lays the hand of healing, placid, cool, Upon the blind of spirit that they see. 728 ® RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER 1946 Where multitudes assemble, and where he Inter-Continental Conference of the National Council of Women Priscilla L. Evans Member, Relief Society General Board—Corresponding Secretary, National Council of Women N_Inter-Continental ConferA ence of the National Council of Women of the United States and of the National Council of Women of Canada was held Mon- - day, Tuesday, and Wednesday, May 6, 7, and 8, 1946, at the Hotel Waldorf-Astoria in New York City. President Belle S. Spafford and two members of the General Board of Relief Society, Edith S. Elliott and Priscilla L. Evans, were official delegates representing the Relief Society ' at the Conference. Eighteen members of the Relief Society residing in New York Stake,* and one member residing in Washington Stake' attended one or more sessions of the Conference, some as accredited delegates and others as interested observers. This is believed to be the largest representation of Relief Society at any session of a conference of the National Council. The National Council of Women is a voluntary association of selfgoverning women's organizations through which is made possible an interchange of ideas, experience, and factual information on a_nationwide scale. The Council was founded at a meeting held in Washington, D. C., during the year 1888. The first president of the Council was Frances E. Willard; the first vice-president, Susan B. Anthony. Among the pioneers who helped to form the Council were May Wright Sewall and Elizabeth Cady Stanton. At this historic first meeting, the Relief Society was represented by Emily S. Richards. Three years later, in 1891, at the first triennial meeting of the Council, on the advice of President Wilford Woodtuff, Relief Society became a charter member of the National Council of Women of the United States, and still continues (1946) as a member, and, through membership in_ the National Council, enjoys official contact with the International Council of Women. The preamble of the constitution. *Mrs. Grace Clawson Woolley, President New York Stake Relief Society; Mrs. Carl J. Christensen (Alberta Huish); Mrs. Harvey Fletcher (Lorena Chipman); Mrs. Harlin J. Dittmore (Barbara Wallace); Mrs. Guy B. Stephenson (Margaret DeWitt): Mrs. Wm. L. Woolf (Flora Tanner); Mrs. Leslie H. Wadsworth (Daisy Simmons); Mrs. David D. Paine (Lyle Nelson); Mrs. Owen S. Cullimore (Elsie Sundberg); Mrs. Rulon S. Hales (Vera Holbrook); Mrs. Kenneth G. Handley (Ethel Lowry); Mrs. Hugh M. Lyman (Fern Walker); Mrs. Karl G. Macdonald (Louisa Rogers); Mrs. Cyril D. Pearson (Helen Smart); Mrs. H. H. Haglund (Eva Forsberg); Mrs. Stanley McAllister (Donnetta Kesler); Mrs. C. B. Stewart (Kate Romney); Mrs. Edward Smith (Melba Brian). *Mrs. Edgar B. Brossard (Laura Cowley). 350 Page 729 730 which was adopted at the organization meeting, remains the basis of the Council's program today: We, women of the United States, sincerely believing that the best good of our homes and nation will be advanced by our own greater unity of thought, sympathy and purpose, and that an organized movement will best conserve the highest good of the family and State, do hereby band ourselves together in a confederation of workers committed to the overthrow of all forms of ignorance and injustice, and to the application of the Golden Rule in society, custom and law. The National Council does not itself sponsor activities of a controversial nature, but it does supply data to its members regarding the activities of other members. No member can, in any case, be committed to any cause or project by Council action except by its own vote. Although the Council continued to function during World War II, no national conventions were held, and, upon termination of the war, it was decided to call an Inter-Continental Conference. Mrs. Edgar D. Hardy, President of the National Council of Women of Canada, and Mrs. Harold V. Milligan, President of the National Council of Women of the United States, shared the responsibilities of the Conference and alternated in presiding at the various sessions. The theme of the conference was "Women and The New World: The Practice of Peace." At the opening session, the invocation was pronounced by Mrs. Ella A. Boole, President, World Women's Christian Temperance Union. It was a kindly and gracious act to recognize Mrs. Boole in this way. She is very aged, indeed, nearing the RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER 1946 century mark, but alert and _ still courageous. She has, all her life, worked for the cause of temperance and has valiantly and militantly fought against what she characteristically terms "the demon rum." In conversation with the writer, Mrs. Boole recalled her affection for the Mormon women who early represented the Relief Society in the Council, speaking particularly of Emmeline B. Wells and Emily S. Richards. Mrs. Boole has always recognized the Church and: its authorities as strong allies in her temperance work and _ expressed pleasure in meeting Sister Edith Smith Elliott, a daughter of President George Albert Smith, whom she said she valued as an outstand-. Ing advocate of the cause so dear to her heart. The prepared addresses on each program during the three-day conference were presented in the form of panels, followed by discussion from the floor. The panel groups made arresting and colorful pictures. At one of the sessions, the occupants of the places at the long table across the platform were women from many countries. Mrs. Hardy, who was presiding, "called the roll of the continents," and the following responded: North America—Senator Cairine Wilson of Canada South America—Senorita Minerva Bernardino. Asia—Madame P. H. Chang Australia—Miss Doreen Berry Europe—Madame Jan Papanek Africa—Miss Eugenia Holmes McArthurTo picture just one: Responding when Africa was called, was Miss Eugenia Holmes of Liberia, a pretty, INTER-CONTINENTAL CONFERENCE slight figure, faultlessly dressed in a becoming frock of cream-colored linen, which accentuated her very dark skin and eyes. Her coal-black hair was dressed high. She wore no hat, but instead had pinned a dark red rose in her hair. In responding to the panel subject, "The Challenges To The Peace Of The World," she spoke, in a wellmodulated voice, a very correct English. Her preparation was thoughtful and intelligent. On a succeeding panel, Miss Tove Elias-Nielsen, journalist of Copenhagen, Denmark, read her short message in halting, measured phrases. She prefaced the reading with the remark, "I have never before tried to speak to an audience in English. I have stayed up all night practicing this for you." These incidents will illustrate the color, and, in some cases, the moving drama of the occasion. NE of the dramatic moments of the conference was at the opening of the first luncheon session. Mrs. Milligan, President of the National Council of the United States, was presiding. It is the custom in the gatherings of the Council, whenever food is served, to ask a blessing upon the food. Mrs. Milligan requested Dr. Mary McLeod Bethune to ask such a blessing. Dr. Bethune is the founder-president of the National Council of Negro Women and has been an active participant in Council affairs for many years. She stepped upon the platform, with her great spiritual strength shining in her black eyes, and in a beautiful, low voice, said, quietly, "Will you please repeat the prayer after me." And her white sisters bowed their 731 heads and repeated, phrase by phrase: "God bless this food to our bodies; God bless our bodies to service; God bless our service to all mankind. Amen." 'There were few dry eyes as Dr. Bethune stepped down and resumed her seat. The keynote address was delivered by Dr. Lena Madesin Phillips. She spoke to the subject, "Peace In The New World." Dr. Phillips is a lawyer by profession, is a former president of the Council, and is, at present, one of the vice-presidents of the International Council. Only a few excerpts from Dr. Phillips' address can be given in this article, but they will serve to give you the tempo of the entire conference. Running through all the addresses was an urgent plea for action—not only to recognize the need to work for peace, but, as was reiterated time and again, "to do something about it." Dr. Phillips said: War in my judgment has two great taproots—one of them is the economic root which denies to people food and security and jobs... I have told many audiences in this country that human beings will not starve, even for the Constitution of the United States. If you think that the economic situation does not influence people in their form of government, then you do not know the misery which is over the earth today. The second taproot is that which denies humanity those human rights of which we often talk. Freedom of speech, freedom of religion, freedom from being discriminated against because of color or race or religion or sex—these things they desire. We can never have abiding peace until we pay more attention to these things. Two things I would leave with you. One is that we are living in a strange in-between time, between two worlds, the old world and the new. We have not come into the new world yet... I am not sure 732 that we are going to come into it very quickly... Second, I beg of you to go from here with a crusading zeal to try to get action, action among people you know, action from yourself about problems in our own country, about our relationship to the rest of the world. There is not much time... I think within the period of the next five or ten years we will see either great disaster or we will see the world come to a new realization of what really is the trouble with us... I believe it is something in the human heart and soul... It is selfishness, it is an apathy—it is of course ignorance, but it is also the fact that we are not quite willing to pay the full price of peace.... God will not do for us what we are unwilling to do for ourselves, and so if we must have things as they were, then we won't have peace. It is only as we come to recognize the Christian ethics that we will find the way to peace. You are not only your brother's keeper, you are your brother's brother." Dr. Renee Girod of Geneva, Switzerland, was the guest of honor. Dr. Girod is one of the vice-presidents of the International Council of Women and acted as president during the war years when the president, Baroness Boel of Brussels, Belgium, had, as she herself expressed it, "a forced silence imposed upon her." Dr. Girod came by clipper plane from Geneva, and arrived in New York a few days prior to the conference. She is an interesting and impressive person. She addressed the delegates several times during the sessions of the conference, and each time the audience felt lifted up and strengthened. Her first message was brief, and was as follows: Dear Sisters: I think I may call you "sisters" because I feel very much at home RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER 1946 in your country although I have been here three days only. I have come, as you have been told, from a very far away and very small country—from Switzerland. But Switzerland, is the oldest democracy in the world and therefore I call you "'sisters" because all women in all the countries are sisters. If we have not felt it until now, we must feel it now very strongly because there is a terrific job lying ahead that is awaiting us. I am not going to speak on my own behalf now. I am just going to speak on behalf of Baroness Boel. She has given me a message for you, but this message is written in French so I shall read it in French first, and in case you don't understand it, I will do my best to translate it. It is rather difficult to translate Baroness Boel's French because it is rather peculiar. It is very good French but the better a language is the more difficult it is to translate. (Dr. Girod read the message in French and then translated it): It is with a feeling of pride for the large international movement that I represent that I asked Dr. Girod who, during those five years of forced silence imposed upon me, has assumed the charge of the presidency of our organization, to bring you my cordial greetings. I sincerely regret that circumstances outside my will have prevented my being with you today, but this is my message to all those who are meeting in this important conference of the Western Hemisphere. Whether members or not of the International Council of Women, I say' more than ever that the world needs the collaboration of women for the organization of a world with better justice. Women can and must bring their collaboration. More than ever does the world need the help of large women's organizations, those who like ours have for dozens of years worked for the emancipation of women and for the awakening of women's collective conscience, those created for the fine and special aims, those who are recently bor or who will be created tomorrow to respond to new needs. It is INTER-CONTINENTAL CONFERENCE through these organizations that woman makes her civic, political and international education. As citizens of her nation, her place is marked today beside the men, her brothers, men being grouped like she is in different parties which they have themselves formed. She has to accomplish her task with the man beside her. As citizen of the world, she has not yet been able to give the measure of her possibilities, she has not yet realized the young forces that are in her. As mother, she creates life. More than men, she has the duty to defend this life which she has given and of which she is the guardian, to defend not through a verbal pacifism which has given us, alas, many deceptions —to defend not in tuming her back to the danger when it comes. The women of the whole world have proved in the course of these last years what they are able to do to defend the liberties and principles that for them, as for their men companions, are more valuable than life. Women must defend those principles by bringing a loyal contribution to those who strive to construct a new international order, by suppressing war in the settlement of conflicts. The notion that none can do justice but oneself must pass from the individual to the nation. Then no state shall have the night to resort to force to settle a dispute. That is what all the women of the world want today, whatever be the spot of the planet on which they live. They must hold out for this high and strong today, strong in courage and enthusiasm. The large world associations can help them. Let us go forward, sisters, for this new crusade for the respect of human rights in a free world where, with the help of God, more justice and more love shall reign.. The end to be attained is worth all the efforts that have been made. OPPORTUNITIES were given during the Conference to present the work of the Relief Society to the delegates. At the executive 733 session on the last day of the Conference, President Spafford presented an exhaustive and well-considered report of the activities of the association, stressing especially the accomplishments of the war years. It was generally conceded by the delegates that no member-organization reported a more comprehensive program and certainly none could match the achievements of the Relief Society in aid to our European members through the Welfare Program. The facts were well and accurately stated, and the Relief Society representatives felt a justifiable pride both in the content of the report*and in its presentation by President Spafford. Sister Evans was called from the floor to the platform by Mrs. Milligan, President of the Council, who was presiding at the Wednesday morning general session, and, after a very gracious introduction, was presented to the audience as "a Mormon woman" and requested by Mrs. Milligan to "tell them something about the Mormon women and their work." Sister Evans, though taken entirely by surprise, was glad of the opportunity to give the delegates a word picture of the Relief Society, its beginnings and its purposes, its present strength, and its far-flung unit organizations. She spoke of the influence upon the lives of the Mormon women of the opportunity for leadership inherent in Relief Society organizations, and traced this influence into community, state, and national activities—educational, cultural, political, and Church. On Monday evening, the Board of Directors of the Council met in executive session at the Cosmopolitan Club. This was an opportunity 734 to meet in an intimate, social atmosphere all the presidents of the member-organizations and the officers of the Council. Supper was served and the Relief Society delegates were assigned places at the head table, along with Mrs. Ambrose N. Diehl, the incoming president; Mrs. Harold V. Milligan, the outgoing president; Mrs. William Barclay Parsons, Jr., chairman of the Conference; and Mrs. Luella S. Laudin, chairman of the Committee on Human Relations of the Council. - Here again, great interest was shown in the Relief Society, especially in the international scope of its work. On the final day of the Conference, officers were elected to serve for the next biennium. Mrs. Ambrose N. Diehl was elected president, succeeding Mrs. Harold V. Milligan. Mrs. Frank Evans (Priscilla L. Evans) was re-elected corresponding secretary, and was appointed to membership on the executive committee of the Council. She has held these offices in the Council since 1938. As a fitting climax to the Conference, there was presented to the delegates, "A Manifesto." It was read to the conference by the well-known actress, Miss Jane Cowl. Her rendition was artistic and stirring. Only a few excerpts can be given here: A WOMAN'S MANIFESTO FOR ZERO HOUR This is the Woman's Hour... It comes at a fateful time when all humanity lies huddled in fear at the brink of a bottomless abyss. The curtain has fallen on a hideous epoch during which society, di- - rected by only half the human family has recorded its unhappy history in the blood of countless millions and the tears of women who have borne the brunt of war, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER 1946 in every century. The testimony of man's failure to find the road to peace is there for all to read; it says, unmistakably, that having failed to solve the problems of wiping out wars, men have been driven inevitably to use instead ingenuity to increase their terror and ferocity. Viewing the cold facts from the broad perspective of history, it becomes obvious that human lust for power, selfishness, greed and the principle of "'might makes nght" have prevailed as the dynamic of successive generations. But today, all of us, we members of the human family, wherever we may live on the earth's surface—women and men, savage and civilized, colored and white, atheist and disciple of religion — share the common threat of complete destruction in a man-made inferno. And _ at long last, women, liberated the world around, may speak out and give full expression to their natural role of peacemaker and protector; they may raise their voices in behalf of law and order and security against the machinations which lead to war.... Victor Hugo once wrote: "No army can withstand the strength of an idea whose time has come." 'The Idea is the strong chain of womanhood around the world which can be forged through friendship and mutual support to insure a lasting peace; and the Time is—Now! To this end, the National Council of Women of the U. S., Inc., proposes the following as a rule of conduct every woman, everywhere, may adopt: I shall do all that lies in my power to fulfill the responsibilities of good citizenship in a world community: (1) by urging the active participation of qualified women in local, state, national and international government; (2) by using my ballot, always, for the benefit of the greatest number; (3) by protesting immedlately to my government against any encroachment upon the 'human rights and fundamental freedoms of my global neighbors, anywhere; (4) by demonstrating in my home and my community, my firm belief in the precept of human brotherhood as the foundation of a lasting world peace. INTER-CONTINENTAL CONFERENCE This is the program I gladly adopt as the minimum of my obligation to society; but I shall seek, constantly, other ways of strengthening the hands of men and women of good will everywhere for the betterment of the human race—so help me God. This Manifesto was unanimously by the assembled delegates, Throughout the Conference, there was a striking similarity in the thinking of the speakers. From the far corners of the globe came almost identical thoughts, with deviations only in considerations of customs and ancient traditions which must be changed slowly. Each speaker emphasized her conviction that we adopted 735 must think in terms of people, not nations, for it is people who are being deprived of human rights, and people whose wants can be satisfied only through the co-operation of other people. Again and again were reiterated the words: freedom, understanding, justice, integrity, cooperation and respect for the dignity of the individual. And always there came out of the heart of the speaker a spiritual note. Indeed, the pleas of all those participating on the program might be summarized in the words of the Savior: "Therefore all things whatsoever ye would that men should do to you, do ye even so to them: for this is the law and the prophets" (Mt. 7:12). KEYS Clarence Edwin Flynn It is a shame upon us That there should be a day When we must seek protection By locking things away. If but the race were honest, One could leave any store By day or night, with never A lock upon the door. He could lie down to slumber Unhindered till the dawn, Knowing no hand would harm him, Or anything be gone. Perhaps we shall be neighbors Again in years to be, So honest that no coffer Or house will need a key. A Visit to Church Shrines Edith S. Elliott Member, Relief Society General Board HEN planning spring Relief W Society conventions for the eastern stakes, and some of the missions at the request of President George Albert Smith, Sister Spafford and I were aware that our journeyings would pass near some of the Church shnnes. With this in mind, we allowed time for a visit to the Prophet Joseph Smith's birthplace at Sharon, Vermont; to Palmyra, New York, where he spent his youth and received his first vision; and to Nauvoo, Illinois, where he spent his last days. Our first tip to a Church shrine began at Cambridge, Massachusetts, early one May morning in President Reeder's comfortable car. The "we" consisted of President William S. Reeder of the New England Mission, his capable and charming wife, Bertha Stone Reeder, President Belle S. Spafford of the Relief Society, my brother George Albert Smith, Jr., professor at the Harvard Graduate School of Business Administration, and myself—all friends of long standing. We looked forward to the good visit that the auto trip promised, as our route led from Massachusetts into New Hampshire. New England in the spring is like the beauty of a poem. No wonder so much art, literature, and culture have come from this area! The rivers and lakes, and even the small ponds, had an air of renewed life. The greenery of budding spring carpeted the hills. The trees and shrubs along Page 736 the highway rivaled the patterns of any lace maker. The quaint, elongated farmhouses were intriguing. Added to the houses themselves, or shall I say "hitched together," were the sheds, barns, and other buildings necessary to farm life, so connected that in the long winters, when the snow is deep, the farmer can attend to his chores without having to go outside into the cold. I must mention the woodpiles seen beside each house, as wood is used for both heating and cooking. The neat piles were huge! If wishes were horses, I would now have one of those woodpiles stacked in my own yard to feed my fireplace this winter. Through this lovely, picturesque setting, we followed the road into Vermont. We passed through the little town of South Royalton, then on to the spot revered by all Latterday Saints—the birthplace of our Prophet. I cannot think of a more peaceful or beautiful place for a prophet to be born. From the top of the everlasting hills, covered with pines and maples, to the lush grasses in the valleys, calmness and serenity abounded. It was no effort to imagine what the birthplace might have been like—a humble farmhouse, containing love, honor, intelligence, and industry. I like to think that our Heavenly Father chose this secluded spot, far from the hustle and bustle of city life, as a place where a little boy could live close to nature and be A VISIT TO CHURCH SHRINES schooled in the simple and_ basic Phases of life. The granite shaft raised to commemorate the birthPlace is dignified and fitting. It was too early in the season for the flowers to be in bloom, but the lawns were gteen; and we spread a blanket down and ate a delicious picnic lunch Prepared by Sister Reeder. Returning to Cambridge that night, we all felt the glow of satisfaction that comes from visiting hallowed ground. After a wonderfully pleasant and satisfying series of conventions held in. Eastern Canada, which was Our next stopping place, President Spafford and I left President and Sister Ursenbach in Toronto. Crossing the border into the United States at Buffalo, New York, we boarded a train for Rochester, very much relieved to have missed the railroad strike by one hour. In Rochester, we were met by Brother C. Orval Stott, who has charge of the Bureau of Information at the foot of Hill Cumorah. He showed us some of the interesting places in Rochester, including the beautiful homes along East Avenue and a remarkable dis- - Play of lilacs in bloom in one of the city parks. I didn't know there were sO many varieties of lilacs—and al] of them beautiful! The air was filled with their glorious perfume. Those plumed blossoms were in shades of pure white, creamy yellow, pink, lavender, purple, and dubonnet red. What wonders God hath wrought! In historic Palmyra, we passed "Four Comers," where there is a church on each corner, and on the outskirts of the town we saw the 737 little cobble-rock building in which Oliver Cowdery taught school. Each cobble in this unique building is about the size of a large hen's egg. Finally, we came in view of the Hill Cumorah, from which the Prophet obtained the plates of gold which were given to him by the Angel Moroni. The wonderful truths translated from those records teach the gospel of Jesus Christ and his plan of salvation. The records also tell the history of the ancient inhabitants of the Western Hemisphere. The hill has been attractively landscaped. On the summit, is an inspiring statue of the Angel Moroni, created by the sculptor Torleif S. Knaphus. When flooded with light at night, the effect is most etherial. At the base of the hill, is a reproduction of a Mayan house, surround. Ed by lawn and trees, flowers and shrubs. This building is the Bureau of Information, where tourists arc greeted and given an account of the restoration of the gospel. In this building, also, are the living quarters of the family in charge of this shrine. IT have already mentioned Brother Stott as the capable and genial gentleman responsible for the care of this area, and must also give due regard to his charming and gracious wife, Flora Bushnell Stott. She greeted us with a welcoming smile and won our hearts immediately. Our stay in her home Was friendly and restful—just what we needed. In the evening, after a wonderful chicken dinner, about eight of the Relief Society women living on nearby farms came in for a social gathering and to informally discuss Relief Society work. We enjoyed the fine, wholesome spirit of these sis- ters, their good humor, and interesting conversation. The next morning, Brother Stott took us on a tour of the surrounding country. First, we visited the Joseph Smith farmhouse. Just to step on the same floor boards that the Prophet stepped on, was a thnll. The house is a typical upstate New York farmhouse now occupied by Brother Owen T. Howard and his wife, Rachel Ellis Howard, who operate the farm. From this historic old home, we went to the Sacred Grove. We followed a grassy path through the trees to a clearing. Literally, "radiant beamed the sun above... Bees were humming, sweet birds singing." UR emotions were stirred at being on such sacred ground. Here our Heavenly Father, accompanied by his Son, visited a fourteen-yearold lad who had asked him, in boyish simplicity, the way of truth. How grateful I am that that boy accepted and carried out God's instructions! I often think of the unwavering faith of young Joseph Smith, which gave him courage to meet all obstacles in order that the gospel of Jesus Christ might be restored in its entirety to the earth. Determined as Satan was to destroy him and his message, the Lord protected him until his mission was completed. I hope that nothing will ever disturb the calm beauty of that grove. Our next stop was at the Peter Whitmer farm, where, on April 6, 1830, the Chifrch of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints was organized, with six members. Brother William L. Powell and his family, who live at the farm, made us welcome. While we were enjoying "the various points of interest, President Antoine R. Ivins of the First Council of Seventy, his lovely wife, Vilate R. Ivins, and President Roy W. Doxey of the Eastern States Mission, artived. We all enjoyed a delicious turkey dinner with the Powells. Wealso visited briefly with Owen B. And Elizabeth Smith Anderson at the historic Sampson farm, and with Otho and Verna Fitzgerald Roundy at the Cumorah farm. We returned to the Hill Cumorah by way of Lake Canandaigua and Lake Seneca, hoping to get word that the trains would run, so that we could go on and fill our Chicago convention appointment. But, alas, the strike continued! Brother and Sister Stott seemed to be happy that we could not move on, and they cared for us in the same friendly manner as before. With heavy hearts, we were forced to cancel the Chicago Stake Relief Society convention. However, there is merit in the old saying it is "an ill wind that bloweth no man to good," for our delay enabled us to participate on Saturday, May 25, in the first day of the annual Eastern States missionary conference and pilgrimage to the sacred and historic spots around Palmyra. The day's program began with a "sunrise service" held around the Angel Moroni statue on Hill Cumorah. It was an inspiration to join with the elders and lady missionaries in song and prayer. After this, a testimony meeting followed in the Bureau reception room. The presiding officer was President Ivins, with Mission President Doxey conducting. Wonderful testimonies were 738 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER 1946 A VISIT TO CHURCH SHRINES given, and all those in attendance felt richly rewarded. The afternoon session was held in the clearing in the Sacred Grove. What a privilege it was to attend a religious service there! Those participating gave interesting and impressive talks, and the familiar hymns sounded even sweeter than usual in the lovely grove. At the close of the meeting in the Sacred Grove, we went to the Martin Harris farm where Brother Harty Crider and his wife, Martha Jane Chase Crider, fed us bountifully. It was then that we learned that the railroad strike was over, so Sister Spafford and I tried to figure out a way to get to Chicago by noon the next day, in order that we might make our train connections and complete our trip on our original schedule. Our train tickets were, at that time, twenty-four hours overdue because of the strike, so Brother and Sister Stott took us to Roches- 739 ter airport, where we were assured plane transportation to Chicago at midnight. Finally, after further delay due to weather conditions, we arrived, weary and cold, in Chicago at about seven in the moming. We drove straight to our hotel, where we thawed ourselves out in warm baths and then slept until time for our noon train to Colchester, Illinois. In Colchester, we were met by a grandniece and grandnephew of the Prophet Joseph Smith, Mabel Hendel Boyd and Ralph Millikin. Mrs. Boyd is a granddaughter of Catherine Smith Salisbury, a sister of the Prophet Joseph Smith; Mr. Millikin is a grandson of Lucy Smith Millikin, another of the Prophet's sisters. We were taken to the Ralph Millikin home, where we received the friendly greeting of Ralph's lovely wife, and met dear Aunt Clara Salisbury Hendel. She is one of the nearest living relatives of the ProphTHE OLD HOMESTEAD FIRST HOME OF THE PROPHET JOSEPH SMITH NAUVOO, ILLINOIS et, being the daughter of his sister Catherine. The Millikin home is charmin and surrounded by a beautiful antl well-cared-for garden. Our royal entertainment there will never be forgotten. After breakfast on' Monday morning, we (cousins Ralph, Myrtle, and Mabel, Aunt Clara, Sister Spafford, and I) drove to Carthage in the Millikin automobile. There we met more cousins—Catherine Salisbury's granddaughter, Mary S. Hancock, and two grandsons, Albert and Herbert Salisbury. No one could have received a more friendly welcome - than did we. Together, we visited Carthage Jail, where Brother Joseph A. McRae kindly showed us the points of interest. My eyes filled with tears at the memory of the tragedy enacted there. A luncheon at the attractive home of Albert Salisbury was a delightful experience, both in respect to food and companionship. In two automobiles, our group then followed along the Mississippi River road to Nauvoo, where thc Prophet and many of our forebears lived in comfortable, well-built, fine homes. No wonder they called it "Nauvoo, the Beautiful!' The wide expanse of the Mississippi River half circles the town like a protecting arm. One has to imagine Nauvoo as it was at the peak of its development, because, now, the place is like a ghost town. However, there remain a few significant landmarks that bespeak the glory of the past. We saw the Prophet's first home, the Mansion House (his last home), and the Nauvoo House, where Emma Smith lived after her husband's martyrdom. The graves of the Prophet, his wife, and his devoted brother Hyrum, are fittingly located on the bank of the "Father of Waters." Sister Spafford's emotions were particularly stitred as she stood on the site of the Prophet's store, for it THE MANSION HOUSE, LAST HOME OF THE PROPHET JOSEPH SMITH NAUVOO, ILLINOIS 740 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER 1946 A VISIT TO CHURCH SHRINES UVOO HO ON After the death of the many years in this house. Was in a room over the store that the Prophet Joseph met with Elders John Taylor, Willard Richards, and cighteen women, on March 17, 1842, and organized the Relief Society. We rode through the streets of Nauvoo to see the homes of some of the early Church leaders. We found three homes of my ancestors which were of great interest to me. They were the former Tesidences of NA USE THE MISSISSIPPI RIVER, Prophet, Emma, his (AT RIGHT) NAUVOO, ILLINOIS wife, and Lucy, his mother, lived for ory of the cruel treatment experienced by the saints at the hands of mobs, Motoring back down the river Toad, we crossed the Mississippi on a bridge to the Iowa side. Here, we looked across from Montrose to Nauvoo. We could not but ponder on what might have been. This day of rich memories ended for us in the evening when my dear kinsfolk waved goodbye to us as our train pulled out of the station at Keokuk. Iowa. Thus ended our visit to some of the Church shrines, Sister Spafford and I will long temember, with grateful appreciation. This rare Opportunity. NIGHT Bernice Hacking Balle Night creeps slowly down the lane Trailing garments—star-bedecked, Bringing drowsy sleep and shadows To the valleys—moon-flecked, The Luxury of Giving Norma Wrathall "Only the poor can know the luxury of giving'"—George Eliot HE two little girls, Ruth and Hope, dawdled over their work of cleaning the lamp chimneys. It was 1860, and mama often said what a blessing it was to have oil lamps instead of candles. Of course, there were times when the work of cleaning the chimneys proved irksome, but not today. For when mama and Aunt Em spent an afternoon sewing, something important was often discussed. The little girls tried to be as quiet as possible, so that they would not be sent out of the room, but it was no use. "Run along now, dearies," said Zina Gleason, glancing up. "Put your wraps on, see if there are any more eggs before they freeze in the nests, and give the hens some wheat. Then you can play in the sittingroom with your dolls." As the girls trailed reluctantly out, Zina bit off a thread, and leaned forward. "I don't like the looks of things at all," she said, "It was to have been a Christmas wedding, you know, in Salt Lake, so her father could be there. But all of a sudden, Cy announced that he was going to the canyon with the other men to get wood, and Julie told me_ this morning that the wedding had been postponed—I don't think we needed any more wood, anyway. There's enough to last until early spring." Zina sighed. She was a tall, firmly built woman, her pale features framed by heavy dark braids which wound smoothly about her head. Page 742 Her direct, gray eyes were troubled as she looked at her sister-in-law. Emmeline James was _ plump, short waisted, jolly looking, with. Rosy features and reddish blond hair which she wore in a large knot on top of her head. Em was very positive in her ideas. She shook her head sympathetically. — "Sts, sts, it's too bad, Zina," she said. "Goodness knows you've done all a mortal could do to make her feel welcome. I hate to say it, but I've thought all along, she's too citified for this pioneer life..." Her voice trailed off as Zina held up a warning hand. The stair door opened, and Julie Saunders came into the room. She was almost willowy in her slenderness, and her delicate face looked unusually pale in its frame of fluffy, light brown hair. "The baby's asleep at last," she said, speaking of Zina's youngest, two-year-old Jay, who had been named for his father, Jacob Gleason. "Just as he would start to doze, he'd start telling me again of how he has the same birthday as Jesus, and I'd have to tell him the Christmas story again." She laughed softly, but her eyes were uncertain as she glanced over at Em, who, with lips tightly compressed, bent industriously over her knitting. Julie seemed to sense Em's disapproval. Zina rose and began poking the fire in the great, black wood-bumning stove, which stood at one side of THE LUXURY OF GIVING _ the high-ceilinged room which was kitchen and dining room. "I do hope his cold doesn't get any worse," she said, speaking of Jay, "he's subject fo croup, you know, and it would be just our luck to have him sick for Christmas. I never planned a big day in my life that one of them didn't get sick." She took up her work again, a blue wool dress for her sixteen-year-old Millicent. Em dropped her hands in exasperation. "Oh dear, I'm out of vam. You haven't a Piece that would match this red, have you, Zina? I've just the thumb to finish." She held up the glove she was finishing as a Christmas gift for her husband. Zina rummaged in her large workbasket, which still smelled faintly of wood smoke because it had been made by old Indian Mary. She came back with a mitten. "It's a little darker, but maybe you can make it do.": Julie spoke up quickly. "Cy's going to take me over to Garfield as soon as he comes back from the canyon, so I can get the train to Salt Lake in time for Christmas. Maybe I could get some there." She bit her lips, her cheeks reddening as she remembered she had not told Em she was leaving. Zina spoke up kindly, to cover the gitl's confusion. "T hardly think you could get it there, Julie. Garfield's nothing much at this time of year— they have a bathing resort over there in the summer." Em took the mitten and began gathering her work. "Well, Julie, I didn't know you were leaving us, SO soon. I guess it's none too pleasant for you out in this country," she said stiffly, 743 Julie murmured something about its really being very pleasant, and turned quickly toward the window, her eyes full of tears. She doesn't like me, I know she doesn't, was her thought. The two older women put on their wraps, and went out to hitch up Em's horse and buggy. Her house was just over a little rise in the ground, but she had driven over to bring a large basket of things she was going to use to help prepare for the Christmas feast, which was to be at Zina's house this year. After a few minutes, Julie followed them, putting a heavy shawl over her head and shoulders. She stopped by the little fence that separated the dooryard from the big yard, and looked toward the road which stretched on toward the point of the mountain. The Gleason ranch lay on the edge of Tooele Valley, in the rich meadowland. Julie had never seen it in its lush summer beauty. As far as she could see, the bare bench land, as yet only lightly streaked with snow, sloped away to the gray hills. She drew her breath in sharply. Never, never would she be able to get used to the vastness, the emptiness around her. She was not sorry that she and her father had joined the Church soon after her mother's death, and had come to Salt Lake. But all this was so different from her home in Iowa. She looked toward the foothills, where dark clouds were settling, and her uneasiness increased, Suppose there should be an accident, and she might never see Cy again? She shivered, drawing the shawl closer about her, and walked out through the little gate as Em and Zina came from the barn, leading the horse and Tig. "Might as well take these pumpkins over with me now, then I can roll out my pies any time," Em was saying, "I'll send Millie nght back." Millicent had stayed with Em's babies for the afternoon. Julie spoke up in vague alarm. "Will vou let her walk the half mile alone, when it's getting dusk? Mightn't there be an Indian or something?" Em snorted. "Indians! Why, the idea. I never heard of such..." Zina interrupted gently, "You see, Julie, there hasn't been any Indian trouble since frontier days. The Indians around here are really too docile for their own good. Millie isn't a bit afraid." "Why should she be? H'mph!" Em slapped the gentle old horse vigorously with the lines, and clattered out the big gate, but not before they caught her caustic murmur—'"Indians! Some people think if they get away from Main Street in Salt Lake, they'll be scalped by savages." "Don't mind Em," laughed Zina, "she really has a heart of gold. But you're without your coat. Let's hurry in—I have to get at my chores soon as I get my old gloves on." They walked along in silence, until Julie spoke, her voice low with emotion. "How, or why, do you do it, Zina? Why should women submit to such drudgery, out here on the edge of nowhere!" "Why, Julie, I'm afraid I don't—" "Oh, yes you do! I saw you looking toward the hills. There's a storm brewing, and you're worried, aren't you? Aren't you, Zina?" Julie stopped in her tracks, the wind whipping her long skirts about her ankles. Zina put her hand on Julie's arm, and began drawing her toward the house. "Don't worry so, dear. You're all upset, partly by what Em said. But she didn't mean it. And this really is a wonderful country, Julie. Of course, there are still hardships, but we have such a nice place. Why, I wouldn't trade my home for any place. I mean that. And we women have to do our part. 'There'd have been mighty little' pioneering done without the women." She laughed a little, to soften the seriousness of her words. "I wish I could feel that way about it. I've tried, truly I have. Oh, why can't people live nearer Salt Lake, where you could get help if you needed it?" She looked again toward the hills, and the wind seemed to pick up her words and send them echoing back into her heart. Zina started to say something about how could they build up the country that way, but Julie did not hear. She paused on the top step, her face white and still. "T guess you've wondered why I postponed the wedding. Well, I'm going to tell you. It isn't because I don't love Cy enough, or that you haven't been more than kind to me, Zina. It's just that—oh, I just can't stand it, the loneliness and the waiting, for days on end, with your husband out in the hills, or some other far-off place, and no way to get word, or find out what's happened if he doesn't get back—and Cy won't leave here—" She turned and ran into the house. Zina's shoulders bent wearily. Had Em been right? She felt tired, with the worry of it all, and, taking the milk pail from its peg over the built- 744 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER 1946 THE LUXURY OF GIVING up well on the porch, she started toward the barn. By the time December twentythird arrived, and still the men had not returned from the mountains, Em and Zina were exchanging worried looks, but they went ahead with their plans for Christmas, for the sake of the children.: a sat up late that night, sewing a dress for Ruth's doll. Somehow, she found a sort of solace in the preparations in which all the family seemed to take pride. The doll, given to Ruth the Christmas before, had been brought across the ocean by Zina's grandmother, and the lace was hand-crocheted. It looked very fine under Julie's clever fingers, the dress being made from a bit of material left from Millie's dress. Zina was assembling the children's gifts. "This cradle Jacob made. It's for the little girls together. It's almost large enough for a real baby." She regarded it proudly. "And this little bench is for Jay—he can carry it around with him as he plays. Then I've knit each of them a pair of new mittens—did I show you _ these long gloves I knit for Jacob? He likes them to come high up on his wrists, because he's out so much in the cold." She began carefully folding the blue dress. "It takes so much planning, and work, and then sometimes I wonder if I've got anything to give them that's worth while. At Teast, Jay's croup didn't materialize, but now there's this new worry—the men not coming home." She bit her lips, for she hadn't intended to say it aloud. Julie, her head bent close to her 745 work, said slowly, "Zina, the way you keep up, and make your plans, is wonderful. Christmas means a lot to you, doesn't it? The way you plan, and all. You put so much of yourself into it. I mean the doll that came across the ocean—and all these things you've made by hand." A tear fell unexpectedly down onto the doll's dress, and Julie brushed at it carefully. "And those little pies that you sit up so late on Christmas Eve to make. Millie tells me that she's to help with them this year, because she's sixteen." Zina smiled a little shakily. "Yes, Millie's quite excited about it. We call them St. Nicholas pies, and I began to make them in the years when there was simply nothing else to give the children. I used to fill them with stewed dried fruit, but now I fill them with jelly. They're really very elegant, made with jelly and with the tops like fancy wheels or stars." Julie folded the finished doll's dress, and laid it on the table. Somehow, the gifts she had brought with her, purchased in Salt Lake, which had seemed so fine at the time, now seemed bare compared to_ these things which held so much love. Julie stood up, and put her arm impulsiv ely around Zina's shoulders. "Zina, don't worry. Everything's going to be all right," and turning, she lifted the small lamp from its place on the shelf and hurried upstairs. Her own form leaped in long grotesque shadows from the lamp to the stair wall, and she found herself wondering if her fears were like that, long shadows exaggerated out of all proportion? But suppose something had happened to Cy, and she might never have a chance to explain? Her 746 thoughts held no comfort and she crept into bed, Julie woke with a start to see daylight streaming in and fresh snow sliding from the window panes. She jumped up, realizing that she had overslept. Zina would have been out long before this with the lantern, Sweeping paths to do her chores, Julie tried to push away the heavy feeling that Oppressed her as her Icy fingers fumbled at her clothes. Now she remembered, It was the day before Christmas and there was to be no wedding, and she couldn't go home; Cy was lost in the mountains, But, as she hurried down to the kitchen, a feeling of peace came over her, to see the gitls preparing breakfast over the great, black range. It was Christmas Eve day, and Julie helped Zina to clean and stuff the chickens, and watched Em's babies while she rolled out two more mince pies for old Mrs. Bates who lived down the road a piece, and who always helped them out in times of sickness, By the time the cold winter afternoon shadows lay along the porches, Julie stood oftener and oftener by the window, looking out across the snow. Each of the children selected a chair upon which to hang his stocking, near the round sitting. Room stove with its isinglass_ windows, "They don't mind sO much about the tree, you know," Zina said, im an aside to Julie. "We don't always have one; this year was to have been sort of Special..." and Julie whispered, "Oh, Zina..." Then Zina held up her hand for silence. There Was a sound. Yes, it was the sound of wagon wheels creaking across the snow. He moments which followed were like a daze to Julie. She heard RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER 1946 hale and hearty Jacob Gleason explaining that they had broken the much about Julie into the sittingroom and closed the door. "Tm sorry, Julie," he said, suddenly embarrassed, "I know I promised to get you home for Christmas —couldn't be helped, though. Maybe we could make it tomorrow." He had been turning a sinall package over and over in his hands, and now he held it out to her. "I want you to have this; it isn't much, but [I'd planned to get something else, too," that gifts don't mean so much, unless you give yourself, too." Cy's lean, weather-tanned face took on a puzzled expression. "Why, Julie, what do you mean?" "T_ mean," teplied Julie stoutly, her cheeks flaming, "I want to stay for Christmas, and if you won't leave this country, well, I guess |']] Stay." Cy stood stock still, his dark face still incredulous. Then he had her in his arms, and the fluffy brown hair was against his cheek as he murmured, "Julie, Julie, are you sure?" But he must have found out that she was sure, for, long after the children had tiptoed upstairs to bed, and Zina, her eyes heavy with sleep, her face dusted with flour, had fixed the last wagon wheel a little lopsidedly atop the last St. Nicholas pie, Cy and Julie still sat by the round sittingroom Stove, and the Christmas stars were in their eyes, Pioneer Stories and Incidents ON THE RIVER PLATTE President Amy Brown Lyman [This is the fifth in a S€Ncs of trye Pioneer incidents to be Published by The Relief Society Magazine in honor of the 1947 Utah entennia] Celebration ) HE Platte River, Which Stretchthe shores Of the Platte from the fb across the Continent from Missourj River to Deer Creek, Wy. The Rocky Mountains to the oming, where their Marriage took Missour; River, has been the scene place Just before their entry into Tossed and Tecrossed jt by ford, b Scar Win » Parents of Sister "rry, or by boat Its shores teemed Augusta Winters Grant with Indians and also with buffalo Mary Ann Was the da ghter, by a Cx, birds, and Other wild life seeking ormer marr; 8, of Mary Ann Pratt stories both Tomantic and Pathetic, the time, Sister Pratt and her three t coul SUPply data for 4 great epic When they Teached the first cam © epic of the ans. Even to. Five miles On their Way, and it was day the Olg Mor Trail along the found necessary card their atte is mark d, because a steat por. Heavy new Cooking stove to lighten tion of; IS COvered 5 the Toadbed their load, a NN Was sent back of the Union Pacifj Railroad to Kanesville In §oing that ne of the in "Festing stories of way, to Order a thin, heet-iron Stove the Platt River; that of 4 littl Three {Tips in al] were mad before seven, whose TOMance Covered the Scar Winters, who always seemed entire period Of their journey along to be on hand Whenever Sister Pratt Page 747 needed help of any kind. He often assisted her teamster, who was inexperienced in handling oxen, over difficult situations, and saw that her equipment was kept in good repair. These various contacts gave him added opportunity to pay court to his sweetheart. As a matter of fact, Oscar Winters was helpful to everybody. An expert in the handling of horses and oxen, he was the wagon master and_ had charge of all the teams and drivers in the company. He was, therefore, a familiar figure to everyone as he rode back and forth on his horse, helping wherever he was needed. Oscar had first met Mary Ann six years before this, in 1846, in Nauvoo, during the exodus from that city. He had been a member of a company of infantry which had been trying to guard the temple and the city from the mob in the battle of Nauvoo. He was no doubt happy, now, to be able to renew his acquaintance with the Pratt family. Oscar's father, Hyrum Winters, who was himself preparing to leave for the West with a later company, had also befriended Sister Pratt by seeing that the wagon which had been provided for her by the Emigration Fund was in good condition. When he had delivered it to her he had informed her that it was one of the best made in his shop. The son Oscar's journey across the plains was a happy and romantic one, but that of his father and mother was sad. During their trip, his mother, Rebecca Winters, passed away and was buried near Scotts Bluff on the Platte River, where her grave was marked at that time by a piece of the tire of a wagon wheel. Many years later, however, a monument was erected by her family as a tribute to her and to all other mothers who lost their lives on the plains. Also a marker was placed at her grave by the Daughters of the American Revolution, as a tribute to a "daughter." It was in August that the marriage of Oscar and Mary Ann took place at Deer Creek, on a Sabbath evening. 'The company had laid over this week end for repairing the wagons and for a rest on the Sabbath. On her wedding day, Mary Ann looked charming and cool in a green gingham dress, which had been carefully pressed by a flatiron borrowed from a neighbor, their own iron having been left at one of the camps where it had been set out to cool, and for8otten. Her hair was done in proper fashion, although she had no mirror to consult. The ceremony was performed by Elder Lorenzo Snow, who had paused at the camp on his return home from a mission to Italy. The wedding meal, which consisted of fresh bread baked in a skillet, fresh butter, a piece of meat, and cold water, was greatly enjoyed by all. Soon after their arrival in Utah, Brother and Sister Winters settled in the beautiful little village of Pleasant Grove, which became their permanent home, and where their eight children were reared. & 748 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER 1946 AUTUMN WIND Katherine Fernelius Larsen The wind is a wandering minstrel In the autumn time; He chants of far-off places Where the bells of temples chime; He plucks the brittle branches Toa gypsy song, And sings of moon-drenched southern seas And white roads beckoning, Far and long. Oh, I would up and be away To join him in his roving, But for the household tasks to do— Ah, such the bonds of loving! © THE JUNGLE TREE Elsie F. Parton Gaunt, scarred and bare, bereft of beauty! Observer of the centuries now past! What suffering, what trials have you witnessed? What joys, what sorrows have their shadows cast, As sentinel you stood on the mountain summit, The jungle sweeping dense beneath your brow? How can they tell who never knew your beauty? How can they weep who first behold you now? Your questing roots, when first the rich earth piercing. Gleaned strength and beauty for your leafy arms. The tropic deluge bathed your olive beauty, And blazing sunbeams pierced your shadowed charms. Here, dusky maidens met their friends and lovers, Exotic flowers entwined their raven hair; They vowed and visioned dim, uncertain futures, With only you their ecstacy to share. Aloft you stand, bereft of all your glory! No more before the tempest you will bow. The jungle winds are whispering around you— But you are dead and cannot hear them now. Page 749 Sixty Years Ago Excerpts from the Woman's Exponent November 1, and November 15, 1886 "For THE RIGHTS oF THE WOMEN oF ZION AND THE RicHTS OF THE WoMeEN OF ALL Nations" EDITORIAL NOTES: To encourage the patrons of the Woman's Exponent, we have decided to give to each subscriber of the paper, at Christmas time, 4 picture, which will be suitable for framing, of one of the most notable women of the Church— Lucy Smith, the mother of the Prophet Joseph. It is said by those who were personally acquainted with the lady, to be an excellent likeness. AUTUMNAL TINTS: There is no season of the year when the earth is more magnificent in its glory and beauty than the Autumn, and especially October. In September the leaves begin to fade and turn yellow, and sometimes the pale blue sky is dim OF Jaden, but the mellow October days are rife with beauty.--- The fallen leaves—what sentiment they call up in the human heart, and how one loves to tread upon them, what poetical thoughts they inspire. Immense flocks of blackbirds sail across the pathway and over the brown fields, lighting among the soft willows that frame the water's edge.--- The murmuring music of the leaves when the Autumn breeze begins to sway the trees, and they bend and sigh and moan, has something so pensive in it, that it thrills the human heart and softens it like the music of the harp with a thousand chords gently played by a skillful hand.—Aunt Em APOSTROPHE Oh, Sympathy! Thou dear and holy thing, Be not abashed—fear not to reach thy hand Unto the wealy and the sorrowing, To soothe, to strengthen, and to help them stand. Oh Justice! Thou hast waited long—so long; Thy look is fierce and searching, like the sun; Thy voice ls sharp, thine arm is firm and strong, Who shall abide when thy day's work is done? —Lula sooo 0 POETS AND POETRY:.. - Poetry is that sentiment of the soul, or faculty of the mind, which enables its possessor to appreciate and realize the heights and depths of human experience. It is the power to feel pleasure OF suffer pain, in all its exquisiteness and intensity. - -- Nearly all men and women are poetical to some extent, but very few of them can be called poets..-- The greater the poet the greater ls his capacity to suffer and enjoy.--- They who express most must likewise feel most, both of pleasure and pain... - There are some people who think there js no poetry in religion..- Religion is full of poetry, and poetry is full of religion.--- oets do not always know what great truths they are telling. Like the prophets, whom they so much resemble, they have in all ages "builded better than they knew."... Lhus, is poetry shown to be the elder sister of history, the mother of language, and the ancestress of civilization.--- But the end is not yet. There are heights to climb which have never been surmounted; depths to fathom which still remain unsounded.—Orson F, Whitney. Page 750 Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon THE wives of the presidents of Utah's three universities represent a high type of Latter-day Saint and of American womanhood. LLA GIBBS -McDONALD, wife of Howard S. McDonald, President of Brigham Young University, Provo, met. Her husband while both were missionaries in the Eastern States. She has studied at the Agricultural College in Logan and at the University of California. In Berkeley, she held a Primary class in her home, besides teaching a Sunday School and a Relief Society class. In San Francisco, she was stake Relief Society theology leader and taught a theology class in Sunset Ward. She was later first counselor in the stake Relief Society presidency. She enjoys her renewed association with Utah people, the beautiful "Y" campus, and her new responsibilities and privileges. She has two lovely daughters. FSTELLE SPILSBURY HARRIS, her husband, Franklin S. Harris, President of Utah State Agricultural College, Logan, four daughters, and two sons, are all graduates of Brigham Young University, of which institution Dr. Harris was president for many years. Mrs. Harris received her Bachelor of Science degree from the B. Y. U. At the time of her youngest daughter's graduation. With her husband, she spent part of a year in Europe and one in Iran, where she was particularly impressed with the people's skill in design and color, and with their true hospitality. Her special interest is the training of gitls for homemaking. She and her brothers and sisters, in honor of their mother, who had twelve children, started a home economics library at the B. Y. U., to which thev add books each year. LVA C. OLPIN, wife of A. Ray Olpin, President of the University of Utah, is the daughter of Stephen L. Chipman of American Fork, Utah, former Alpine Stake president and also Salt Lake Temple president. Mrs. Olpin, endowed with a beautiful coloratura soprano voice, was graduated in music from Brigham Young University and continued her studies in New York after serving as a missionary in the Eastem States. She has lived, also, in Charlotte, North Carolina, and in Columbus, Ohio. In Charlotte, Dr. Olpin, serving as district president, opened a branch of the Church, and Mrs. Olpin organized a Relief Society. She was also district director of music and district president of Relief Society in Columbus. Now, at the University of Utah, Mrs. Olpin is actively interested in all campus Organizations. The Olpins have three daughters and one son. Page 75] C—> EDITORIAL io VOL. 33 NOVEMBER 1946 NO. 11 'She Looketh Well to the Ways of Her Household; How' often one hears the expression, "She is a good manager," and then the speaker recounts how the woman in question makes many of her own and her children's clothing, beautifies and furnishes her home with the workmanship of her hands, exercises thrift in buying, and performs many tasks for herself, thus saving money. It reminds one of the woman spoken of in Proverbs who "looketh well to the ways of her household and eateth not the bread of idleness." It shows that women living at any time in the world's history are much the same— some being provident and others wasteful and indolent. For these past few years during the days of prosperity, Church lead. Ers have urged Latter-day Saints to free themselves from debt. Now, with prices of all commodities spiraling, fortunate is the family which heeded this advice and does not find itself in subjugation to debt. Today it is vital to the welfare of every family that the mother be a "good manager." She will have much to do in determining the financial status of her family. Great contrasts in living and surroundings may be found in the case of two men mak. Ing comparable wages. The "good manager" mother will see that she has put by an adequate supply of Page 752 —Proverbs 31/297 fruits, vegetables, and other foodstuffs for the coming winter. She will rejoice as -she views her full shelves. Her children will be well supplied with clothing, many of them fashioned or remodeled by her hands. Her home, in its beauty, will reflect her industry, and growing plants in her windows will Jend an air of springtime even on the coldest winter day. Contrast this home of order and beauty with the home where a mother does not manage well. Either through a lack of knowledge or indolence, her storehouse is not supplied for the coming season, and throughout the winter she will be buying out-of-season food at high prices. Her children may not be supplied with adequate, reasonably-priced clothing, for money will be squandered on second-grade merchandise through a lack of means to buy the best at the present inflated prices. This woman's husband will not be able to get ahead, as was the husband of the prudent woman, because his wife is unskilled in homemaking arts, or else is indolent. Relief Society has a responsibility toward every Latter-day Saint woman to offer and seek to improve her homemaking skills, and, if a woman's home responsibilities keep her from attending Relief Society work EDITORIAL meetings, an effort should be put forth to give her help and instruction in her own home. Whether a sister needs help in improving her cooking, sewing, budgeting, or keeping her house clean, Relief Society should be prepared to offer instruction on better and more efficient methods along all these lines of homemaking. For the past ten years, through the Welfare Plan, Church leaders have pleaded with the saints to prepare themselves for the times ahead. The 753 women of the Church must do the share devolving upon them as the mothers in the home in preserving and producing the necessities of the home, such as food and clothing, so that they may fully support their husbands, the bearers of the Priesthood, in the work which will be dependent upon them in the future times. "Give her of the fruit of her hands; and let her own works praise her in the gates" (Proverbs 31:31). FRIENDLY TOWN Bertha A. Kleinman I'm glad I live within a Friendly Town Where old and young are tolerant of me, Where many smile and few there be who frown, No matter what my misdemeanors be. I'm glad I live within a neighborhood, Where friendly folk exact so little test, Where slander falls away, and only good Induces me to measure to my best. I'm glad I live within a family sphere Where folk forgive the all I should have been, Where, when I fail, they love me just as dear And lift me up to try and try again. Yes, here I am the happiest to be, Among my own who strive the most with me. "What Shall I Do Now, Mother?" Elizabeth Williamson With illustration by the author F your child is recovering from an illness or has a cold and has to stay in bed, he will need something to do. He will be much happier if he is occupied, and if he is happy, you will be happy, too, and the affairs of the household will run more smoothly. Mother must be a nurse; she must keep her child physically comfortable and entertained, as well. She may also be the housekeeper and she will be responsible for the welfare of the other members of the family at th same time.: il The wise and thoughtful homemaker will find many ways to help solve her problems when there is illness in the home. Schedules work in hospitals, and many mothers in their homes have found that a general plan enables them to accomplish more work and also helps them to secure more rest than might be possible otherwise. However, all mothers know that they must adjust even the best schedule to fit the particular needs of their own families. In many cases, the mother must prepare the breakfast, pack the lunches, help other children get ready for school, and care for a baby, before she can finally turn her undivided attention to the child who must remain in bed. When mother is the nurse, and ready to give the child his bath, she will find that "animal" soap and bright-colored towels add to the interest of the bath. The frequent Page 754 changing of pajamas or nightgowns gives added interest. Gay printed flannelette will prove a favorite with the child, and material designed in bird patterns, or lambs, flowers, or fruit, will-dlso have great appeal. Attractively. Packaged cold creams and. Bath powders will help to lighten the monotony of the days for the bedridden child. Immediately after the bath has been given is a good time to change the bed linen. If the child must remain in bed, it is helpful to move him to one side of the bed and roll up the soiled sheet close to his back. Then tuck in the fresh sheet, folding the surplus down the center of the bed. The child is then rolled onto the clean side of the bed; the soiled sheet is withdrawn, and the clean one tucked in place. Two or three small pillows with bright-colored cases will delight the child, and he will enjoy placing them where they will give him the most comfort, When the child sits up in bed to eat his breakfast, a wedge-shaped pillow will give him good support. However, a little stool or a small chair with a pillow against it, will make a substitute back rest. A bed table or four-legged tray (one may be fashioned out of a_pasteboard carton) is almost a necessity for serving meals, and it is useful, also, when the child is reading, drawing, or playing games. Bright-colored cloths and napkins add to the beauty and interest of the "WHAT SHALL I DO NOW, MOTHER?" tray. Paper napkins and cloth can be used, or the gay new plastic materials can be made into covers for the tray. These sets might be varied for each day, or even for different meals. Dishes with colorful and interesting designs will make your child happy. Let the little cream pitcher and the cereal dish, the plate, and the drinking glass be changed from time to time. The element of surprise is good for children. A fresh bouquet, a little figurine (a gay rooster, a little dog, a lamb) will delight your small patient. The busy mother may find it necessary to leave her child alone for certain intervals, especially during the morning hours. If the child understands the necessity of this procedure, he will be co-operative, and 755 he may even find pleasure in being left to his own devices. Much depends upon the attitude the mother takes toward her child and his illness. It is helpful for the mother to be outwardly calm and cheerful. She should realize that a large part of the healing process may be dependent upon her attitude and that of the family. Cheerfulness, courage, faith, are the "soul medicines" for daily use. If the child is well enough, he might enjoy some of the following activities: Jig-saw puzzles Paper dolls Pictures to cut from old magazines, such as animals, airplanes, flowers, food, fruits, etc. Scrapbook, in which to paste cut-out pictures. Arranging rooms in empty boxes, using spools, small boxes, bits of cloth for furniture; cut small dolls for the occupants Drawing, coloring, painting Simple sewing, knitting, crocheting It will help to relieve the day's monotony to serve fruit juices, milk, water, and other fluids in different types and styles of glasses. In one instance where the taking of fluid was essential, a child was allowed to drop a penny in his bank after each glassful. The lunch can be made attractive by varying the linen and the dishes, as was suggested for the breakfast tray. Elements of the unusual and the unexpected might be utilized by bringing to the bedside a tray of various kinds of fruit or a tray of different kinds of bread or rolls. Sandwiches can be cut in the shape of stars, crescents, animals, etc. Warm foods can be brought to the bed in covered, individual casseroles. The time spent by the child in rest periods and sleeping will leave the mother free to devote to the activities of keeping her household in order and for preparing the evening meal for the family. Perhaps, in the late afternoon, the mother, father, or the other children can play some games with the bedridden child, if his physical condition permits this much activity. Some simple game will be most enjoyed. "The Postman," an example of a guessing game, is played as follows: Question: "Is it a girl?" Answer: "No." Question: "Is it a boy?" Answer: "No." Question: ''Is it a woman?" Answer: "No." Question: "Is it a man?" Answer: "Yes." Question: "Does he live in our town?" Answer: "Yes." Question: "Do I know him?" Answer: "Yes." Question: "Did I see him today?" Answer: "Yes." Question: "Does he wear a gray suit?" Answer: "Yes." Question: "Is it our postman?" Answer: "Yes." This game can be played with birds, flowers, buildings, cities, countries, or states for the subject material. A child who does not have enough energy to play a game will sometimes enjoy having some member of the family read to him. The reading might include poems, stories, or letters. Selections from the New Testament will appeal to older children. Simply told Bible stories will be of interest to even small children. Occasionally, the child will take delight in hearing some appropriate music over the radio or he mav be entertained by phonograph records of children's music. Storytime, just before a child goes to sleep in the evening, is a ritual in many families, and the child who is ill will not want to be neglected in this respect. Illness and convalescence are usually trying periods both for the one who is ill and for the mother whose responsibilities and worries are greatly increased thereby. It is well to remember that discipline is even more important in times of illness than it is when the child is well. The mother must be considerate and kind, and vet must be firm in maintaining as near normal behavior habits as possible. It is surprising how much a planned schedule will help to make this possible and_ to make the days pass smoothly and pleasantly. 756 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER 1946 As You Were Martha Robeson Wright ONNIE Reynolds stood with C her father and the two boys and watched the train pull out of the station. As their mother's smile and waving hand disappeared into the distance, the boys' lower lips began to stick out. 'They batted their eyes to keep back the tears. That was because this was the first time their mother would be away for longer than overnight. But Connie didn't feel sad about her mother going away for a week's visit with her parents. Inside, her heart was tingling with anticipation. One whole week of being her own boss! She would be on her own. No one to tell her constantly to do this, or not to do that. Her mother's nagging had begun to get on her nerves. It was a good thing her mother was going away for a rest. After all, she wasn't young any more; she was all of thirty-four years old, and a woman that age couldn't be expected to have the control over her nerves that a younger person would have. And there was the matter of the livingroom. Now Connie could change the furniture around so_ it would look like something. She had been begging her mother for over a year to arrange it differently. Surely a girl sixteen was no longer a child, and should have some taste. The whole room was off balance. Nothing synchronized at all. The furniture didn't show up properly. And there were the boys. Just because Tommy was seven and Jack was six, there was no reason to treat them like babies. 'Talking to them constantly didn't solve any problems. Her mother said they acted so to tease Connie, but most of the time when she was around their manners were simply loathsome. The ride home from the station could have been more pleasant. The boys quarreled all the way. Her father didn't say a word. He was probably wondering how things were going to be without a woman in charge. Once or twice Connie found herself opening her mouth to speak sharply to the boys. Her mother would have kept saying, "Boys, stop that quarreling. Are you sure both the car doors are locked? We don't want any of you to fall out and get concussion like the 'Terrill boy did last summer." Mother fretted too much about everything. Boys had to learn some time. The. Quarreling didn't stop. Finally, Connie, in the most patient, sweet, and unexasperated voice that she could manage, said to them, "If you boys will stop your bickering, I'll give you each a nickel when we get home." 'The peace and quiet was so sudden it made Connie uncomfortable. But that was the way to do it, she thought, a nickel each was much better than a scolding. Her father didn't say anything until they reached home and he let them out. Then he said, "Connie, are you sure you'll be all mght? Can you handle the boys? Get them to school this afternoon?" She drew herself up and became most dignified. "Of course, Daddv. Sco Page MD! And you be home at the regular time. A nice dinner will be waiting for you." "That'll be fine, Snooks." He tweeked the front lock of her blond hair. "Don't let the boys get you down." "Don't worry. You saw how nicely I handled them in the car." He nodded, and his face became absolutely expressionless. Probably didn't want her to see that he was impressed. Afraid it might go to her head. "It's fine, if you can afford it,' he added, and backed the car out into the street and drove down to the office. It took Connie two hours to get the living-room the way she wanted it. The couch in front of the fireplace, with the two small tables at each end and the tall lamps on them. The biggest chair over by the big window. One of the cretonne covered chairs near there, too, making a nice conversation group. The combination radio and tecord player cabinet she put against the. Inside wall, with chairs on each side of it. Everything was perfect. Now there wasn't all that empty space in the center of the room. Funny how her mother hadn't understood about that. Now the room was balanced. Moving furniture had tired her a bit, but she began to get lunch. Her mother had left the pantry shelves stocked with cans of soup, vegetables, and fruit. When she was home, her mother made wonderful soup; but Connie wouldn't have time for that. She opened two cans of different soups and combined them. The baked ham sandwiches, with lettuce peeking from between the slices of bread, were really luscious. There was chocolate cake and vanilla pudding. Really, a nice lunch. And it wouldn't be eaten in the kitchen. She had tried to explain, once, to her mother, that children got awful manners from eating in the kitchen. But her mother had only smiled and gone on setting the table in the big kitchen. 'Today, they were eating lunch in the dining room! HE set the table with one of the nicer everyday cloths, and used the extra tall glasses for the milk. That would save her steps. She wouldn't have to be refilling the glasses. She called the boys as she heard them on the porch. They came in, giggling at something, their mouths smeared with licorice. "Please go to the bathroom at once and wash," she said quietly. None of that "Hurry up boys and get washed this minute," as her mother always said. They went tumbling into the bathroom, and shut the door. The water was turned on with such force that Connie hoped the basin wouldn't overflow. She also hoped the boys weren't squirting water at each other, as they often did. She looked anxiously at the clock. Only twenty minutes left for lunch. She went to the bathroom door. "Boys, please open the door and come out. The soup is getting cold." The boys giggled. "Open the door, 'Tommy, and let me in." "Girls can't come in the bathroom when mens is in there," Jack said. She prided herself on her control. "Come on, now boys, you'll be late for school." She turned the handle of the door. It opened and the boys laughed up- 758 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER 1946 AS YOU WERE roarously. Then they marched past her, faces solemn. Their almost white, blond hair was soaking wet and plastered down. Their round rosy faces shone with soap that hadn't been rinsed off. She also saw that their fronts were decidedly damp. But there wasn't time to change. The air was warm and they'd soon dry. They rushed to the kitchen and turned to her with a puzzled look. She motioned to the dining room. "Boy, look at the big glasses," Jack said, and reached. Somehow, the glass got off balance and milk went running: over the clean cloth and down-on the rug. For a moment Connie wanted to shake him. Instead, she quietly mopped up the mess, changed Jack 'to the other side of the table and provided him with a fresh glass of milk—a smaller glass. The boys ate their soup with all the quietness of horses at a watering trough. Connie knew she mustn't say a word. Instead, she set a good example by eating carefully, always dipping the spoon away from her, quietly taking it from the side and not sucking it out of the end. The example didn't seem to impress the boys. But their soup was eaten. They wolfed the sandwiches, and she made no attempt to slow them. She would get them off for school as soon as possible. They grabbed their sweaters and aitily waved her good-bye. "Be seeing yuh." "You come right home from school and change into your play clothes. I'll be here before you ane." "Sure." They were off down the street. 759 The boys didn't come in to change after school. 'They seemed to disappear each time she went out to look for them. One of their friends was in the yard next door. "Have you seen the boys?" she asked him. "I had planned to give them each a nickel for coming in promptly to change their clothes, but they haven't been home." She knew it would work. Within a few minutes the two little towheads came ambling in the back door and to their room. ~ They changed their clothes and stood silently before her, right hands outstretched. Without a word, she handed each a nickel. They went back out to play. While she was getting dinner, the front doorbell rang three times. Connie found that going around the furniture in the middle of the room took quite a bit of time. But the dinner, when it was finally put on the table, was good. Her father ate everything heartily and complimented her on her cooking. The boys ate as usual. When they saw her looking at them, they opened their mouths wider and chewed louder, their blue eyes raised ceilingward in seeming innocence. "Chew with your mouths closed," her father told them, and they did.... ONNIE found herself out of money by the end of the fifth day. By that time she realized that she had done nothing but work... Come home from school, check up on the boys, straighten the house, prepare the food, watch the boys. She hadn't gone anywhere nor had a friend in, and she had _ served lunch in the kitchen after the first day, for she didn't have time to be too fancy. She had also put the furniture back the way her mother had had it. She could see her mother's reason. It took so much longer to dust and run the carpet sweeper when she had to move everything out of the middle of the rug. Her plans for elaborate desserts had not been carried out, either. She found that the boys were so stuffed with candy purchased with their new source of income, that they had no room left for dessert. She was wishing she hadn't begun the nickel business. Money didn't solve problems with the boys. Their hands came out too often and for too little service. As each night came, Connie crawled into bed so tired she could hardly move. She often wondered how she had had the energy to get her homework, of which she had plenty. She suddenly wondered how her mother managed. She also had the washing and ironing to do, besides going to meetings during the week, going out with Daddy, and entertaining friends and relatives. A woman needed co-operation to get housework done. Even famous generals could never win a battle without co-operation. Saturday was the day before her mother was coming home. The house must be spotless. Connie let the boys out to play in their oldest clothes. She cleaned their room, straightened the other bedrooms, and vacuumed all the floors. Fresh flowers brightened the livingroom. She polished the furniture until it glistened. She baked a cake. It was the one recipe that would always turn out the same for her. She made a meat loaf and put it in the refrigerator, ready for the oven. Potatoes were scrubbed and _ greased, ready also, for the oven. What a day! At five, she lay soaking in the bathtub, trying to get the aches out of her body. But the satisfaction she felt over the spick and span house took away some of that tired feeling. She decided to get the boys in the tub early and to bed early, so they wouldn't have a chance to muss things. Leisurely, she wrapped herself in the huge bath towel she had received last month as a birthday present. She opened the bathroom door and stepped into the hall to go to her room to get dressed. Then voices came to her from the livingroom. Boys' voices. She went to investigate. Four boys, two of them her brothers, lay on their stomachs in the middle of the room. Where they had picked up the mud that was on their shoes when the days had been dry and clear, Connie couldn't guess. But the mud was there—and on the rug. Also there was a large circle for their marbles, and the circle was drawn with white chalk! Connie stood there looking at them, clutching her bath towel angrily. She spoke, and her words were neither dulcet nor sweet. "Tommy, and Jack Reynolds, get up from there this minute, before I get madder. Get the dustpan and clean up that mud. Geta cloth with water. Wipe that chalk off the rug." The two brothers looked at her. They stood up, and together two dirty right hands held themselves out for nickels. Connie looked at them coldly. "That racket is over —washed up. Get going and do as I tell you, or I'll phone Daddy. This room was spotless." It might have been the look in her 760 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER 1946 Tow. The little boys went out quietand dance up and down with dely and brought back the dustpan light. There was mother, pretty and the broom. Smiling, and walking toward them. A house and make boys obey. In aughed,. Fact, it took about everything, inBut Connie didn't feel that Way. Cluding all of your energy. How did She didn't smile. As her mother her mother find time to do all she came toward them, Connie's lower did? She understood now why her lip began to stick out. She batted her mother nagged. It Wasn't nagging at cyes to keep back the tears. That Children—herself included—had to ful it was to have her mother home learn Tesponsibility, They had to again. She was going to do everybe told over and over. They weren't thing she could to keep her mother taught by handing out money to smiling and happy. Connie Tan tohem... | Connie stood with her father and stretched. After all, sixteen didn't the two little boys on the station mean that One was too grown up to platform, watching the train come hug one's mother in public. _— a CONSOLATION Zara Sabin Let me mourn with you, I miss her, too; She often, straying, knocked upon my door And called, "Come in?" and laughed and shook her curls, As she heard my answering footsteps on the floor, And to your stricken hearts that feeble c AS YOU WERE - 761 Faith Is a Heritage Christie Lund Coles CHAPTER 8 Synopsis: Enid Drage, young, attractive widow of Tom Drage, is teaching in the small town where she lives. She is trying to make a good life for her daughter, Sharon, and is deeply hurt when the girl complains that they have no place where she can entertain, and they probably never will have. Enid considers a solution. S they came out of the school building, Enid was surprised to see Mr. Fletcher's long, black car waiting for them. Mr. Fletcher was standing beside it. He motioned to them. "T met him on the way up," Sharon whispered to her mother, "he must have gone to get his car." "How nice," Enid murmured, half to her daughter, half to him, as she approached the automobile. "T knew you would want to hurty,' he said, as he helped her into the car. "I understand you and Miss Nobbit have been close friends." "Oh, we have. We have, indeed," Enid assured him, feeling a sob break in her throat. "She has been so very kind." He took his free hand and covered hers with it, almost possessively. She saw Sharon watching, and drew her hand away self-consciously. He tried to meet her eyes when they reached the house. She knew he wanted to ask to see her, but she pretended more confusion than she felt, as she said, "Thank you. I must hurry..." "Perhaps I could be of help," he suggested. Page 762 "No. No, please don't bother. Sharon says the doctor is already lwete...." "If you need me in any way, call me." "Yes, I will," she called over her shoulder, hurrying into the house. The blinds were drawn in the bedroom and the doctor was listening to Miss Nobbit's heartbeats with his stethoscope, bending over the incredibly pale woman. The neighbor, Mrs. Willis, was standing near the bed. The doctor looked up as Enid came in and shook his head gravely. "You mean, there is no hope?". She asked him, trembling, conscious of her own heart thudding painfully in her chest. "Tm afraid not," he_ replied, "she's unconscious now." Yet Miss Nobbit opened her eyes as Enid dropped on her knees beside her, and smiled feebly. "I'm all right," she murmured weakly. Enid smiled, "Of course you're all right. Don't try to talk." "I want to change my will," the woman whispered, laboring hard for breath. Quickly Mrs. Willis asked, "Shall I call the attorney?" The doctor nodded, "He can be here in a moment, call him." By the time the attorney had come, Enid was so distraught she could not stay in the room. She went out, paced the floor of the livingroom, alternately rubbing her icycold hands. Sharon, pale and. Frightened, sat crying in one corner FAITH IS A HERITAGE of the room. "Is... Is Auntie really going to die?" she 'asked tremulously. "T'm afraid so, dear," Enid admitted, "but she isn't young, you know. She is tired..." Facing death, facing the great, siJent chasm that separates the living from those gone on, is an awesome thing. Enid saw things straight for the first time in a long while. She realized what was of worth and what was not, what was eternal and what was temporal and superficial. She looked at her hand, she could feel Mr. Fletcher's touch upon it _.. Too soft, too flabby... It would be hard to have Sharon go on without a home such as her friends possessed, but she would have to understand. There were greater things that she could be given. God helping her, Enid vowed, she would give her those things. The attorney came out. Mrs. Willis came to the door with him and beckoned to the mother and daughter. Miss Nobbit wanted to see them. Ee KK K LATER, when all the details had been attended to, Sharon and Enid sat on each side of their small kitchen table and toyed with the untouched food upon their plates. Sharon questioned, "Mom, are you going to marry Mr. Fletcher?" Enid felt herself flush. She wished they might have waited until some other time to discuss it, and she hedged for time, "I suppose I'll consider that when he asks me." "Oh, he'll ask you all right. Everyone can see it in his eyes, people are talking about it. The girls treat me differently..." "I suppose you would like it... 763 if I did?" Enid's voice was even, yet anxious, each word weighted with expectancy.. The gitl looked at her for a moment, "I'd like that house... I'd like my own car, all the things mon ey can buy. Id like it for your sake, so that you wouldn't have to work, wouldn't have to be so tired when night comes. Yes, I'd like it.. "d The girl paused and would have gone on, after a second, but there was a knock on the door. Enid arose to answer it. She saw Mr. Watts, the attorney, standing before her. Her heart sank, perhaps already, because of the will, it would be necessary to dispose of this property. Where would they live? There were no available houses in town. "How do you do?" Enid greeted him, somewhat resentful that whatever he had to say could not have waited at least until the morning. She was tired. She had had about all the emotional strain she could bear for one day. "May I speak to you... Alone, Mrs. Drage?" he asked her, coming in, looking about him in evident surprise at their meager quarters. "Of course," she replied, turning to Sharon, "Run over to Sue's for a few moments, will you, dear?" When Sharon had gone, Mr. Watts sat down and, as another attorney had done a long time ago, he took out his brief case and proceeded to unfold some papers. Enid wondered idly what this procedure would have to do with her. She thought, perhaps having lived here with Miss Nobbit, she would be expected to know certain things about her property, and might be needed as a witness for something or other. But Miss Nobbit had never discussed business with her. Her property had been her own affair. Actually, she was still thinking about Sharon's words, was still wondering how to tell the child her decision about Mr. Fletcher so that Sharon would understand. "It may come as a complete surprise to you, Mrs. Drage," Mr. Watts was saying, "but Miss Nobbit left her entire estate to you... This house, a small piece of land west of town, and a few hundred dollars. It was her dying request that you be made sole heir." Enid's thoughts came to the present moment with a start, "You mean, really... This house is mine... Why, I was afraid you had come to tell me we would have to move at once because 'your client wanted the house. Oh, how kind of her... How very kind!" The wracking tears that she had not shed, suddenly fell from her eyes; sobs shook her slender body. He cleared his throat as he said, "Yes, I don't suppose you need fear having to move... Ever... Unless you want to... And in that case, this property could easily be disposed of. In fact, I might say I would be glad to handle it for you at any time." His eyes had a knowing look. He was trying to find out her plans, he was curious as everyone else was curious. It made her a little sick. She stood up straight. "I am very grateful to Miss Nobbit. For the present, I have no plans. Goodnight, Mr. Watts." He bowed, smiled, prepared for his departure, "Goodnight, Mrs. Drage. Good luck to you." When the door had closed upon him, she stood for a moment before the mirror on the wall. Her hair was disheveled about her face, there were dark circles under htt eyes, yet she had the look of a child who is very tired. She had started to the phone to call Sharon, when she heard another knock upon the door. Opening it, she saw Mr. Fletcher standing before her, newly shaven, immaculately dressed. "Why, Mr. Fletcher," she stammered in surprise, "I didn't expect..." HE came into the room apologizing, "I know I shouldn't have come without telephoning, but I did want to see you." Coming closer to her, he went on, "And please, my dear, don't call me 'Mister Fletcher.' Won't you call me Carl?" She moved a step from him, yet there was something rather pitiful in the way he asked the question. She -replied, "Perhaps, if you wish..." Now, it was his turn to look about the room, to see the place where she and Sharon had spent the past fifteen years. The simplicity of it struck her as though she, too, were seeing it for the first time. It had become dear to her. It was home, and she accepted it, but she could understand how another would feel about it, seeing it for the first time. He was moved to sudden, unexpected words, "My dear child, and you've lived here all this time... Alone! I hadn't meant to force your answer, but you must know how I feel. 'Tell me, won't you let me take care of you from now on? Give you all the things you've missed?" She closed her eyes for just a moment, stumbled a little toward him 764 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER 1946 FAITH IS A HERITAGE in her great weariness, and he, mistaking it for acquiescence, slipped his arm about her waist. He was about to kiss her when the door opened and Sharon stood there, looking at them. Enid drew back, looked at her daughter. She could not read what was in the girl's face. Sharon spoke to them and went on into the kitchen without revealing either pleasure or displeasure. Enid pulled herself together, "I'm really sorry you spoke, Mr. Fletcher. We'll just forget that the words were said... For the time being. And I hope you'll forgive me if I tell you I am extremely weary tonight..." "Of course... Of course..." he assured her, affronted a little, nevertheless. After all, he was a man whose word was never given lightly, whose requests were not usually disregarded. "Forgive me for coming. Perhaps, I can tell you tomorrow?" "Yes, do." She answered, almost mechanically, aware only that she must be alone. % OK Ke eo As the door closed again, Sharon 765 came in from the kitchen, her eyes bright. "Mommie," she cried, "I hope you didn't tell him you'd marty him. I thought it would be nice, but what I was going to say when that lawyer came in was that when I saw him hold your hand today I didn't like it, it didn't seem right you so young and everything. We don't need a house that much. Or money, or anything. When I saw him with his arm around you, I knew it wouldn't be right for you ever to marry him. You won't, will you, Mom?" Enid, for some unknown reason, began to laugh almost uncontrollably... In relief, in joy.... She reached out her arms to her daughter, who was taller than she was, and drew her close, "You silly little goose," she said, "of course I won't. I was afraid, though, that you wanted me to say 'yes.'" As she kissed the soft cheek, she knew that now she could tell her about the house Miss Nobbit had left them, now, when she knew that it wasn't as important to Sharon as she had feared. (To be continued ) >> HILL-TOP HOUSE Maude Blixt Trone We climbed a hill, my love and I, And built our house against the sky, So near the clouds that we could share Their wanderings down lanes of air. At night we leave our shutters wide, Believing that the world outside Will count our light another link In Luna's jewels. We like to think The valley man looks up and sees A new star in Hyades. Margaret C. Pickering, General Secretary-Treasurer Regulations governing the submittal of material for "Notes from the Field" appear in the Magazine for October 1946, page 685. MESSAGES FROM THE MISSIONS EASTERN STATES MISSION RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE Left to nght: Priscilla L. Evans of the Relief Society General Board; President Belle S. Spafford; Alberta O. Doxey, President, Eastern States Mission Relief Society; Roy W. Doxey, Mission President; Edith S. Elliott, member, Relief Society General Board. The photograph was taken in front of the Eastern States mission home in Philadelphia, May 4, 1946. Sister Doxey describes her appreciation and the enjoyment the members of her mission received from the visit of the General Board members: "It was indeed a pleasure for us to welcome President Spafford, Sister Edith Elliott and Sister Priscilla Evans to Philadelphia. I am sure that all who had an opportunity to be present at the Relief Society conference were delighted and pleased with the instructions they received. We are making the conference messages available to our members throughout the mission, inasmuch as there are so many who could not attend conference and who expressed regret in not having this privilege. We feel this was the next best thing to do. I was very happy that it was my privilege to be in attendance at the Palmyra meetings, and this feeling was increased when I learned that Sister Spafford and Sister Elliott were also there. I join with you in the belief that as long as our young people can bear testimony of the kind given in the missionary meeting at the Hill Cumorah, there is certainly no reason to fear for the future of the Church." Page 766 NOTES FROM THE FIELD 767 NEW ENGLAND MISSION RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE Front row, left to nght: Sister Edith S+ Elliott, member of the General Board of Relief Society; General President Belle S. Spafford; New England Mission Relief Society President Bertha S. Reeder. Sister Reeder submits an interesting report of the Relief Society Conference held May 12-15, 1946: "The conference was favored by the visit of Sister Belle S. Spafford, General President of Relief Society, and Sister Edith S$. Elliott, a member of the General Board. Sister Spafford was the principal speaker at the Sunday evening M. I. A. Fireside held at the New England mission home. Her talk was by nature of a travelogue in which she told of her visit to the Eastern States. "The following day, May 13th, was devoted to a Relief Society conference at which Sister Spafford and Sister Elliott gave encouragement and instructions to the Relief Society sisters of the mission. After Sister Elliott's introductory remarks, Sister Spafford stressed the duties of executive officers. She told the group to work unitedly, planning all their work together as a group. She advised each Relief Society to be wise in the expenditure of funds. She gave instructions regarding the annual report. "In the afternoon session, Sister Spafford continued her instructions, detailing the procedure advised at the visiting teachers' report meeting. Sister Elliott then outlined and defined the cultural and educational programs for the coming vear. The meeting was closed with an expression of thanks from Sister Reeder to Sister Spafford and Sister Elliott for their visit, and to the members of the New England Mission Relief Societies for their faithfulness in attending the conference." CANADIAN MISSION RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE Jessie R. Ursenbach, President of the Canadian Mission Relief Society, reports the sessions of the spring convention which were attended by the General President of Relief Society, Belle S. Spafford, and Edith S. Elliott, a member of the General Board: "On Sunday, May 19, we held three sessions of Relief Society conference at Montreal, where the women of Eastern Canada heard of the activities and accomplishments of Latter-day Saint women from the lips of their General President, and of the aims and plans for the years ahead from Sister Elliott. The newly organized Singing Mothers group, under the talented leadership of Sister Lois Draney, who officiated at the pipe organ and as conductor, rendered four very inspirational and creditable numbers. Both afternoon and evening sessions were largely attended, some women coming many 768 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER 1946 miles to be present, and lingering long after each session, loath to leave the inspiration there. "The day in Ottawa included an afternoon session with the Relief Society women in Albion Hall. As at all the previous meetings, President Octave W. Ursenbach and Sister Jessie R. Ursenbach of the Canadian Mission were present. 'The Ottawa meeting was addressed by President Belle S. Spafford and Edith S. Elliott. Following this meetCANADIAN MISSION RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE General President of Relief Society, Belle S. Spafford; Jessie R. Ursenbach, President, Canadian Mission Relief Society; Edith S. Elliott, member of the General Board of Relief Society. Photograph taken in front of the Montreal Latter-day Saint Chapel, Sunday, May 19, 1946. May 21, 1946 Extreme left, General President, Belle S. Spafford, and Jessie R. Ursenbach, President, Canadian Mission Relief Society. At extreme right, Edith S. Elliott, member of the General Board. NOTES FROM THE FIELD 769 e ing, a delightfully arranged luncheon was served by the Gleaner Girls. The tables were artistically decorated in the colors of the Relief Society—gold and blue—and seated at the head table were the guests of honor, Sisters Spafford, Elliott, and Ursenbach. In General remarks were made by President Octave W. Ursenbach, and President Spafford and Sister Elliott spoke. Instrumental music was provided by Sister Jessie Low and a chorus of Relief Society sisters, under the direction of Eya Stata, presented some beautiful songs." ISLE D'ORLEANS, MONTREAL, CANADA Sister Edith §. Elliott of the General Board of Relief Society with Canadian dogcart. 770 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER 1946 i RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE, TORONTO, CANADA May 23, 1946 Standing, back of the pulpit, left to right: Edith S. Elliott, member of the General Board of Relief Society; General President Belle S. Spafford; Jessie R. Ursenbach, President, Canadian Mission Relief Society. "At Toronto, May 22, three meetings were held, with representatives from many branches from the western part of the Province in attendance. Between the morning and the afternoon sessions a lovely lunch was served by the Toronto ladies, under the direction of Mary Smith. Singing Mothers groups from Hamilton, under the direction of Doris Gange, and from Toronto, with Thelma Olsen directing, furnished fine music for all sessions. A pleasant feature of the afternoon meeting was the presentation of small gold maple leaf pins to the visitors by Jessie R. Ursenbach, who explained that the gold maple leaf was chosen so that when these pins were worn, the visiting sisters would remember the women of the Canadian Mission. The maple leaf is Canada's emblem." DIA ARO: LG: Lb" sess IVY LEA BRIDGE OVER THE ST. LAWRENCE RIVER MONTREAL, CANADA NOTES FROM THE FIELD 771 NORTH CENTRAL STATES MISSION RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE Ann J. Killpack, President of the North Central States Mission Relief Society, reports the spring conference which was held in Minneapolis, Minnesota, May 29th, 1946: "The officers' meeting was held at 10:30 A. M. President William L. Killpack presided, and Sister Killpack conducted and welcomed those present. Roll call showed the following in attendance: General President Belle S. Spafford; Edith S. Elliott, member of the General Board of Relief Society; Ann J. Killpack; Alice Bell, President, Minneapolis Branch, and her counselors Grace Kripps and Frances Bigelow; Louise Peterson, President of the St. Paul Branch and her first counselor, Laura Koutz; Evelyn Gansauge, First Counselor, Duluth Branch; Fern Alseth, President, Rochester Branch, with Jucille Bloser and Dorothy Peterson, members; Annie Ostvig, Monticello, Minnesota. "Reports were given of the Relief Society organizations in the various branches throughout the Mission, and President Killpack spoke briefly about the importance of the Relief Society and his experiences with this organization. Sister Elliott greeted everyone and told of their trip through Canada and Eastern United States, after which, Sister Spafford told about their trip from Salt Lake to Washington, their visit to Quebec, down the St. Lawrence, to Palmyra, the Hill Cumorah, Nauvoo, and the various landmarks of the Church. The general meeting was held at 2:00 Pp. M. With President Killpack presiding, and Sister Ann J. Killpack conducting. Sister Killpack gave a teport on the fourteen organizations of the Relief Society in the North Central States Mission, five of which organizations were represented at this meeting. Sister Elliott spoke on the program of the Relief Society, explained the work, and told of what was expected of the members. She described their trip to visit Mrs. Truman, First Lady of the Land, in the White House, Washington, D. C., and their meeting with the National Council of Women." NEW ZEALAND MISSION, KORONGATA BRANCH RELIEF SOCIETY ANNIVERSARY PARTY, MARCH 17, 1946 Front row, seated, left to tight: Kaa Tiwai; Keita Puriri; Ani R. Kamau; Kaa Tipoki, Second Counselor; Kumeroa Sarah Heke, President; Hera Puriri, First Counselor. Second row, standing, left to right: Ani Morgan; Molly Onekawa; Ani Neri: Mere Eriha; Olive Edwards; Adelaide Newton; Ruby Karipa; Matekino Wainohu; Teiti McIlroy; Hine Parahi. Back row, standing, left to right: Artemisia Heke; Winipere Edwards; Mapihi Kamau; Miria Pere; Ani L. Kamau; Reremoana Kingi; Wairukuruku Maere; Adelaide Puriri; Rebecca Crawford; Ella Hawea. 772 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER 1946 NORTHWESTERN STATES MISSION BEND, PRINEVILLE, AND REDMOND BRANCHES (OREGON) 104th ANNIVERSARY RELIEF SOCIETY DINNER Standing at the table: second from the left, Noreen Tussing, President, Prineville Branch Relief Society; Irene Butler, President, Redmond Branch Relief Society; Dorothy Howard, President Bend Branch Relief Society. S - veil, LEME bis. "ee CALIFORNIA MISSION, SANTA BARBARA BRANCH RELIEF SOCIETY Front row, left to night: Mary Richmann; Millie Quinton; Maria Forbes; Phyllis Peers, Second Counselor; Emma Parker. Second row, left to right: Frieda Callahan; Harriet Woodley; Isabelle Eby; Dora Bradford. Third row, left to right: Ann Howell; Ella Tognazzini Done, Secretary-Treasurer; Josephine Redd Roberts, President; Darlene Wallace; Ilda Colby; Katherine Johansen. Kirst Counselor, Frances Peck, was absent, due to illness, when the photograph was taken iE} DEPARTMENT Sheology—Church History Lesson 2I—More Auxiliary Organizations of the Church Started Elder H. Wayne Driggs For Tuesday, February 4, 1947 Objective: To study how the Sunday School, the Mutual Improvement Association, and the Primary organizations were soon given place to aid in the Church training program for youth. HE oldest auxiliary organization in the Church in this dispensation is the Relief Society. This came into being under the direct supervision of the Prophet Joseph Smith himself. In a previous lesson this year, the development of the Relief Society was treated. Mention again of this first Church auxiliary has significance in the light of other important auxiliaries which followed. From the very beginning, Joseph Smith visioned the expanding glories. Of Zion and knew that there would need to be helps in Church government. These helps we have come to know as the Church auxiliary organizations. Of them and their importance, the late President Joseph F. Smith has said: I have in mind our auxiliary organizations; what are they? Helps to the standard organizations of the Church. They are not independent. I want to say to the Young Men's and Young Women's Mutual Improvement Association, and to the Relief Society, and to the Pnmaries, and to the Sunday Schools... And all the rest of the organizations in the Church, that not one of them is independent of the Priesthood of the Son of God, not any of them can exist a moment in the acceptance of the Lord when they withdraw from the voice and from the council of those who hold the Priesthood and preside over them. They are subject to the powers and authority of the Church, and they are not independent of them; nor can they exercise any rights in their organizations independently of the Priesthood and of the Church (Gospel Doctrine, page 479). Such a concept of the place of the auxiliary organizations of the Church should be readily accepted by Relief Society members. Their role as mothers and grandmothers has ever been one of helpfulness and understanding for the greater cause. No man has ever been truly great without the recognition of his mother's place in a climb to prominence. Nor is it true that his mother would ask for praise for a loving service so performed. She it is who finds her joy in having given the world a leader rather than in seeking satisfaction through words that eulogize her sacrifices. 774 In a Church sense, the auxiliary organizations do, in part, parallel a service not unlike that of a mother. They indirectly, but with effective guidance, aid in looking after the spiritual, mental, and moral welfare of Church members in their tender years. In the main, it is the youth of Zion that learns of the gospel by means of the Primary, the Sunday School, and the Mutual Improvement Associations. These attractive helps in Church government should not therefore be new in point of purpose to a Relief Society member. They can become, if supported and used, a much needed influence for guidance beyond the home. Blessings are to be gained by membership in all the auxiliaries, each one of which has purposely been planned to aid in the particular problems of an age group within the Church. In the early days of the Church, each willing worker who would thrust in his sickle found the personal joy of reaping a harvest of friends for the Lord. These could be visited often. The communion and fellowship resulting therefrom were intimate. By the time the saints had arrived in the valleys of the mountains, another phase in the development of the Church was reached. No longer could the members be looked upon as the "little flock," often so called by the Lord. Rather his people had become a modern camp of Israel, the correction and guidance of which called for organization. It was not long, therefore, until auxiliary organizations were needed to supplement the regular work of the Priesthood quorums. Three names will always be remembered in connection with the RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER 1946 auxiliary organizations discussed in this lesson. President Brigham Young, Richard Ballantyne, and Aurelia §. Rogers. It was to each of these leaders that the inspiration came to see the larger field for harvest, and the will to help reap the same. It should be mentioned, too, in connection with the M. I. A., that Brother Heber C. Kimball, in the early days of Nauvoo, saw the need of gathering the young people of the Church, and did so to provide instruction for them. In a sense, that forward-looking plan may be considered the early dawning of the Mutual Improvement work, though, true it is, that President Brigham Young brought our present-day auxiliary into actual being. On December 9, 1849, Richard Ballantyne gathered into his home some thirty children to start what later came to be the first Sunday School held in the Great Salt Lake Valley. Brother Ballantyne's purpose is expressed in his own words: I felt that the gospel was too precious to myself to be withheld from the children; they ought to have the privileges of gospel teaching and that was the main purpose, to teach the gospel. (Deseret Sunday School Handbook, page 8.) A year later, this Sunday School was given a permanent house in the old Fourteenth Ward meeting house with the first duly appointed superintendency under the Priesthood of God. Richard Ballantyne — was named superintendent, with Joseph Horne and Phineas Richards, as assistants. From this humble beginning in 1849, the membership of the Sunday Schools in the Church has LESSON DEPARTMENT grown, in 1946, to 360,332 (Deseret S. S. Report, January 1, 1946). By means of the General Board, lessons and teaching aids are outlined and developed so that, today, a mighty Latter-day Saint Sunday School around the world meets each Sabbath day, sings the songs of Zion, marches to class for instruction, and voices, through prayer, the united joy of thousands of hearts. The Sunday School is one of the most important gospel-teaching organizations of the Church, and invites all, both young and old, to join its ranks. In the Thirteenth Ward of Salt Lake City, June 10, 1875, President Brigham Young organized the Young Men's Mutual Improvement Association. He expressed the need for this organization as follows: We want you to organize yourselves into associations for mutual improvement. Let the key-note of your work be the establishment in the youth of individual testimony of the truth and magnitude of the great latter-day work; the development of the gifts within them that have been bestowed upon them by the laying on of hands of the servants of God; cultivating a knowledge and an application of the eternal principles of the great science of life. Each member will find that happiness in this world mainly depends on the work he does, and the way in which he does it. The present leaders of the Church look to this organization to teach the young people to develop the gifts within them; to express themselves before the public, to enable them to study and practice civil, vocational, social, scientific, and educational affairs; and also to train them in all that pertains to religious, moral, social, physical, and intellectual advancement. The auxiliary organization for the 775 children of the Church found its leader in a pioneer mother whose love of the beautiful in life and concern for the well-being of little children stirred her to action. At Farmington, Utah, in 1878, Aurelia S. Rogers organized the Primary Association.. She was set apart at this time to preside over this work. For some time... Sister Aurelia S. Rogers... Had reflected upon the need of a more strict guardianship over the boys and girls of Zion. She felt the necessity for more religious and moral training than they were then receiving; believed that children should be taught to beautify the home with the workmanship of their own hands, and learn to cultivate a love for music, for flowers, and for the beautiful in all things (Essentials in Church History, Joseph Fielding Smith, page 656). Today this Association has grown in numbers to over'a hundred thousand. The responsibility of the organization, as stated by its present leaders is threefold: to give weekday religious instruction to the children of the Church; to supervise and direct their leisure time activities; and to encourage proper health habits. The auxiliary organizations of the Church today reflect the practical power of the gospel. 'The desire to share the good life has been made more than a dream. Faith has made works live among the Latter-day Saints. Suggestions for Active Reading and Discussion 1. Explain how the Church auxiliaries have helped the missionary work of the Church. 2. Tell about some of the interesting activities which have been carried on by your local auxiliaries. 716 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER 1946 Visiting Seachers' ITlessages—Our Pioneer Heritage Lesson 5—Industry President Amy Brown Lyman For Tuesday, February 4, 1947 Objective: To acquaint the women with the diligence and industry of the pioneers— two of their enduring virtues. RIGHAM YOUNG ins the Journal of Discourses, Vol 11, page 247, says: My experience has taught me and it has become a principle with me, that it is never any benefit to give out and out to man or woman money, food, clothing, or anything else if they are able-bodied, and can work and earn what they need when there is anything on earth for them to do. This is my principle and I try to act upon it. To pursue a contrary course would ruin any community in the world and make them idlers. Surrounded by nothing but wild and barren nature, and thrown upon their own resources, the pioneer women had to be industrious and invent ways and means of carrying on their share of the work. They spun and wove, and made their clothing and hats. They made their own brooms, candles, soap, and other household articles. They not only prepared the food, but they helped to produce it. They even helped to build their homes, as well as to raise the crops, and at the same time they reared large families. The writers own mother, when preparing her wedding dress, cleaned and washed the wool, carded it into rolls, spun the rolls into yarn, dyed the varn in two shades with dyes she herself had manufactured, and wove this yarn into plaid cloth. She then cut the cloth by patterns she herself had fashioned, and completed what was truly a_ beautiful dress. Like many other women, she not only wove cloth for dresses and for men's suits, but she made shawls, bedspreads, and blankets. Old, worn, wagon covers, which had been made of "factory" in Nauvoo, were salvaged and made into men's shirts and other articles of clothing. Hats were made of straw which was bleached with sulphur found in the mountains. 'The straw was made into braids which were sewn together, then fashioned into hats by shaping on blocks, and pressing. The hats were then adorned with homemade trimming. It was the industry of the pioneers, who adopted the beehive as a symbol of industry for the Territory, which provided the means of sustaining life itself as well as supplying, in later years, many of life's comforts. Industry, as an integral part of the character of Latter-day Saints, is essential for the fulfilment of the prophecy of the Prophet Joseph Smith that the saints would become a great and mighty people in the midst of the Rocky Mountains. . LESSON DEPARTMENT 777 Work ITleeting—Sewi ng (A Course for Optional Use by Wards and Branches at Work Meeting) Lesson 5—Pinning, Basting, Pressing, Edges and Seam Finishings Work Meeting Committee, Velma N. Simonsen, Chairman For Tuesday, February 11, 1947 Objective: To assemble the garment, pin, fit, and baste. Reference: The Complete Book of Sewing, Chapters 12 and 13. INNING and basting are valuable aids in sewing. When a seam is pinned for stitching, the pins should be placed close together and set in from the edge, so they can be removed as you stitch. Put the pins in at right angles to the seam, pushing them in lightly from the edges. This will make a straight line guide for your basting, and will also keep the pins from pricking your fingers. When you start to baste your garment, first look to see how your pattern controls the curved lines. This means that you first prepare and then carefully pin in the darts, tucks, or gathers, then baste them, and try on the garment before stitching. Bastings are simply temporary joinings. They hold the pieces of fabric together for a fitting and they hold the seams together while you stitch. Fitting Too much fitting may not only distort the design, but may also take away the smartness, resulting in an uncomfortable, pinched - looking garment. Very little fitting should be necessary if the following points are emphasized:: 1. Take your measurements correctly. 2. Purchase the pattern in the correct size and, if alteration is necessary, do it carefully.. Prepare the fabric and lay out the pattern pieces according to the instructions.. Cut and mark the garment carefully. Pin, baste, and assemble the pieces with precision. No wb Pressing Good pressing equipment and careful handling of your garment are important. Press as you sew, is the first rule to follow. Press each seam and detail of a garment as it is finished, and before joining it to another part. This will help to make the final pressing much easier, and the finished model will be more professional looking. Pressing seams, using a sleeveboard and a tailors' cushicn. Pressing woolens, steaming or pressing velvet, or other pile fabrics, are all arts of importance in sewing. Pressing is not difficult. The difficulty lies in. The fact that the average person does not realize the importance of pressing. Finishing Edges and Seams Edges and seams finished properly are a great asset to any garment. Edges may be overcast, pinked, bound, turned under and sewed with a running stitch, by machine or by hand, close to the turned edge, etc. Seam finishings may be French, felled French, hem felled, lapped, tucked, catch stitched, fagoted, hemstitched, or finished in any one of a variety of other ways, according to the requirements of the material and the time available for the seamstress. Assignment for March: Bring the garment you are making and the trimmings to be used. Of sterature—Ametica as Revealed in Its Literature Lesson 5—Westward March of America Elder Howard R. Driggs For Tuesday, February 18, 1947 OMEONE has said, "In the making of the West, America was made." There is much of basic truth in this statement. At the close of our war for freedom, one main way was open for Americans. 'That was the open spaces of the West. Free land was there—opportunity for expansion, for development. In taking the challenge, the realm was populated—and more than this, a distinctive American character was developed. Intrepid pathfinders led the way. These were followed by missionaries and home builders. It was a mighty march westward of youthful spirits. Men, rather naturally, are given first place in this bold adventure. Yet women hold high place in the constructive conquest of our western realm, even from the very first. Recall here the young red mother whe piloted Lewis and Clark across half our continent. Like Pocahantas, whose friendliness and human understanding did so much to save the first struggling Virginians from disaster, the "Bird Woman" added the needed guidance and practical help that brought success to the exploring captains. Her story brightens that great adventure. A Shoshone girl, stolen by the Blackfeet, she had been taken down the twisting Missouri for nearly a thousand miles, and sold into slavery. Later on, she became the wife of a French trader. Just after her first babe, whom they named Baptiste, was born, Lewis and Clark came to winter in the land of the Mandans where she lived. Learning that this Shoshone girl—for she was only sixteen—knew the way across the "shining mountains," they hired her husband as guide. He knew nothing of the route farther West, but his intelligent young wife did. Edna Dean Proctor, whose poems vibrate with the spirit of America, created a lyric to the "Bird Woman" —from which the following lines are taken: Sho-sho-ne Sa-ca-ga-we-a — captive and wife was she On the grassy plains of Dakota in the land of the Minnetaree: But she heard the west wind calling, and longed to follow the sun Back to the shining mountains and the glens where her life begun. So, when the valiant Captains, fain for the Asian sea, 778 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER 1946, LESSON DEPARTMENT Stayed their marvelous journey in the land of the Minnetaree... Glad she turned from the grassy plains and led their way to the West, Her course as true as the swan's that flew north to its reedy nest. Ee ee Straight she was as a hillside fir, lithe as the willow-tree, And her foot as fleet as the antelope's when the hunter rides the lea; In broidered tunic and moccasins, with braided raven hair, And closely belted buffalo robe, with her baby nestling there. Zee %e & To Missouri's broad savannas dark with bison and deer, While the grizzly roamed the savage shore and cougar and wolf prowled near; To the cataract's leap, and the meadows with lily and rose abloom; The sunless trails of the forest, and the canyon's hush and gloom; There, by the valiant Captains whose glory will never dim, While the sun goes down to the Asian sea and the stars in ether swim, She will stand in bronze and richly brown as the hue of her girlish cheek, With broidered robe and braided hair and lips just curved to speak; And the mountain winds will murmur as they linger along the crest, "Sho-sho-ne Sa-ca-ga-we-a, who led the way to the West!" Latter-day Saints generally may not know how closely the story of our pioneering is linked with this fine Indian mother. When she did rejoin her own people near what is now Armstead, Montana, the happy reunion was saddened with the word that her father and mother and a sister had passed away during her years of captivity. "Where is my sister's baby boy?" she asked. An Indian lad was brought to her. Gathering him in her arms, she adopted him for her own. Basil, as he was called, grew through the years to become finally a sub-chieftain of 779 the Shoshones under Washakie; and, like his leader, he was an unfailing friend of the Mormon people. According to Dr. Grace Raymond Hebard, who wrote a scholar- - ly biography of Sacajawea, Basil was probably one of sixty-five Indians who were baptized into the Latterday Saint faith at Fort Lemhi in the 1850's. According to Dr. Hebard also, the "Bird Woman," tiring of her French husband's cruelty and neglect, finally left him and found her people in Wyoming, where she spent her last days, exercising, with Washakie and Basil, her influence for peace and uplift. Another Indian heroine who played a stirring role in the westward march of America, was the wife of Pierre Dorion, the French guide of the Astorians. With two little sons, she made the man-testing journey from St. Louis to the Pacific. On the way another child was born to her, but it lived only a week or so. Later, when her husband and other trappers fell victims on the Boise River to red enemies, this devoted mother, escaping the massacre, fled with her boys to the foothills of the Blue Mountains. There, slaying the one horse she had, using its hide to help shelter them against the winter storms, and its meat to keep them alive, she waited until spring opened the passes. Finally, she crossed the tange and found succor for herself and her boys with a friendly tribe. It was there that Alexander Ross, a British fur trader, found the courageous Mrs. Dorion. To him we are indebted for this story of mother courage and devotion; for he recorded it as she told it humbly to him. It is also told by Washington Irving in his Astoria, a literary history of high quality. Lure of furs was an impelling force that helped to chart the West. - Intrepid men, of the spirit of Jim Bridger, Peter Skeen Ogden, Jedediah Strong Smith, led in mapping © the vast region between the Rocky Mountains and the Pacific. Their purpose was to garner a wealth of furs; and this they did. -Yet beyond this they performed signal service in charting the unknown realm for the oncoming pioneers. Names of these heroic "mountain men," as they were called, still cling to streams, lakes and ranges of the West. Religion played its vital part in the lives of some of these fur seekers of the West. This is especially true of Jedediah Strong Smith— sometimes called the Puritan Pathfinder. He went into the wilds, it is said, carrying his Bible in one hand, his rifle in the other. It was he who first led a band of white men from the Salt Lake Valley into Southern California; and later, with two companions, dared to cross the Great American Desert eastward from the Sierras to what is now Central Utah. Indians later told our pioneers how these three white men, with only one. Horse, staggered into their camp at the south end of the Salt Lake. Six other animals with which they had left California perished in the desert. One notable result came of their adventure: it gave proof that this "Inland Sea" was not, as Jim Bnidger, its white discoverer, had first thought, an arm of the ocean. Another venture by white men half a century before Bridger and Smith had penetrated it, was made by Fathers Escalante and Dominguez. Seeking, with the help of Indian guides, a way from Santa Fe, New Mexico, to Monterey, California, they came as far as the site of Provo; then, baffled in their quest, they prayed, drew lots, and finally returned to their mission home in New Mexico. They had charted, however, in part, what was called by the Spaniards, the land of the Northern Mystery. Still another intriguing story connected with the opening of the West is that of the quest of the Indians for the white man's "Book of Heaven." Through Jedediah Strong Smith, or some other God-fearing mountain man, they had learned about the Bible—and wanted more of its uplifting stories. About the same year that the first Mormon missionaries were on their way to preach the gospel to the Lamanites on our western frontier, four chieftains of the Nez Perce and Spokane tribes came down the Missouri to St. Louis. There they were welcomed by General Clark, then Indian agent for the vast Missouri Territory. Their request for the "Book of Heaven" was not, at first, satisfied. Though the white folk gave them food and lodging and kindly treatment, the Indians did not get the spiritual message for which they had made the long journey. Two of the chiefs—the older ones—passed away while they waited; and were laid to rest in the frontier town. The next spring, with heavy hearts, the other two turned homeward. On leaving, one of them is reported to have said, in effect: You have so loaded us with gifts that our moccasins are heavy. But the light we 780 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER 1946 LESSON DEPARTMENT desired to take back to our people has not been given to us. We must still sit in darkness, Their plea did not fall: on deaf cars. Some devoted Christians finally heard and heeded it. From one of these, Jason Lee, came action. With his nephew, Daniel Lee, and another minister of the Methodist faith, he went westward with the fur seekers, and finally arrived at the Columbia in Oregon. There, missions were established; and the work of leading the red men into the light was begun. It yiélded little so far as conversion of the Indians was concerned; but out of it came another fruitage—the encouragement of American settlement of Oregon. Another response, with something of romance, came, in 1836, when two youthful missionaries, with their brides, took a long honeymoon trip into the far Northwest. These were Dr. Marcus Whitman and Henry H. Spalding. To their wives, Narcissa Prentiss Whitman and Eliza Hart Spalding, belongs the honor of being the first white women to cross our continent. At its crest, it is said, they dismounted from their horses, set up an American flag, and kneeling down with their husbands, dedicated the West to God and home. These were to become the first white mothers in regions that later became the states of Washington and Idaho. To one of them, Narcissa Whitman, came, in 1847, the crown of martyrdom. With her stalwart husband, she fell victim to Indian savagery—this, after they had _ established and maintained, through eleven years, a home that was at once a school, a place of worship, and of culture, and a center of in- 781 dustry. Further, the Whitman Mission, now in process of restoration as a national shrine, was a haven of refuge for pioneers who came there weary and sick and needy on their last lap of the journey to old Oregon.. In We Must March, a stirring novel by Honore Willsie Morrow, we have the story, here sketched, graphically portrayed. Some question a few of the facts woven into it as not quite true to history; but it certainly is true to the spirit and lives of two courageous, devoted Americans. In Whitman—an Unfinished Story by Dr. Penrose, President Emeritus of Whitman College, we have an historical presentation of the tale of devotion and sacrifice. Through the 1820's and the 1830's, the great West was largely charted, and missionaries gained a foothold in its wilds. Yet would the vast domain ever be brought under the Stars and Stripes? Could its mountain valleys, its deserts, ever be settled? Statesmen of vision, such as Daniel Webster, were teady to throw even old Oregon, to which, by discovery and exploration, America had first right, away to other nations. Of what use was that farflung frontier to our country, anyway? An unmistakable answer came, in 1843, when a handful of American settlers in Oregon, with spirit like that of their Pilgrim and Virginia forebears, established a free government there under our flag. That same year a second clear answer rang out when one thousand men, women, and children, under heroic leadership and guidance, rolled over the Blue Mountains in their covered 782 wagons to a new homeland in the far West. Our East was settled largely by means of the waterways; our West by the wagonways. Praise should go to the humble oxteams which, patiently drawing homes on wheels, took mothers into the valleys of the mountains. Without these homemakers, the West never could have been peaceably conquered. Transcendent among those who made this constructive conquest were the home-seeking Latter-day Saints. By the time this particular lesson is being studied and taught, all our people, indeed all the world, will be at the beginning of the Centennial commemoration of the epicmaking march of the pioneer vanguard into a mountain-guarded realm. A theme is here for song and oration, story and drama, that will echo down the ages. Already much literature of true merit has been created portraying the heart and spirit of our pioneers—the redeemers of the desert. Of all that yet has come, nothing surpasses in sweet simplicity and Bible-like fervor the splendid hymn that cheered their westward march—"Come, Come, Ye Saints." In this song is the quintessence of true religion. Its first stanza is a vibrant note of joy and cheer, its second, a sweet expression of hope and trust in God; its third, a joyous look ahead to a peaceful happy homeland; its last a high note of true courage even to meeting death happily—and triumphantly winning in the end. Daniel Stevens, a Nebraska leader who fell into possession of the site of the "Liberty Pole Camp" on the Elkhom River, where President RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER 1946 Young organized the pioneer vanguard, was deeply impressed with the story of our home-seeking saints, and often told it to friends. "How in the world could those people stand the hardships and dangers?" he was once asked by an earnest listener. "Well, they thought that God was marching right by their side," was his reply; "and I am not so sure but that they were right." Discussion and Activities 1. Be prepared to give a one-minute explanation of any one of these topics: (a) Four lures that led Americans westward. (b) Stars added to our flag through the Louisiana Purchase. (c) Lewis and Clark and the "Bird Woman'"—their service to America. (d) "White Man's Book of Heaven"—and outcome of the quest for the book. (e) Service and sacrifice of Marcus and Narcissa Whitman. (f) Story, in brief, of one of these mountain men: Jedediah Strong Smith, Jim Bridger, Peter Skeen Ogden. (Note: To bring reports within time limit, write the one chosen.) 2. Be prepared with a four-minute review of any one of the following novels: We Must March by Morrow; Covered Wagon by Hough; The Land Is Bright by Binns. 3. Read carefully each of the stanzas of "Come, Come, Ye Saints." Be ready to join with the class in an appreciative analysis of the hymn; and afterwards in singing it. 4. In what vital way is the epic of the Mormon pioneers linked with the story of the pioneering of each of the following states: Iowa, Nebraska, Colorado, New Mexico, Arizona, California, Nevada, Wyoming, Idaho, Utah? (Give very brief answe! S. ) References Binns: The Land is Bright. Driggs - Lippincott: Westward America. Hebard, Dr. Grace Raymond: Sacajawea, Arthur W. Clark Co. Hough: Covered Wagon. Irving, Washington: Astoria. LESSON DEPARTMENT Miller, Joaquin: Overland in a Covered Wagon, Appleton-Century. Morrow, Honore Willsie: We Must March. Russell and Driggs: Hidden Heroes of the Rockies, World Book Co. 783 Stevenson: Poems of American History, Houghton Mifflin Co. White, Stewart E.: The Long Rifle. Caine, Julia Alleman: "A Bride Goes West," (Narcissa Whitman), Relief Society Magazine, February 1944, page 91. ~~. Ie Optional oessons in' Lieu of Literature The Gospel as a Way of Life Lesson 5—Baptism Elder T. Edgar Lyon For Tuesday, February 18, 1947 GOME years ago in one of the mission fields of the Church, two missionaries were invited to an open house held in honor of a member of the branch on his eightysixth birthday. The following Sunday was fast Sunday and, during the testimony bearing period, this aged individual arose and commenced to speak. He started his remarks by expressing thanks for his membership in the Church, and especially that during the past week he had celebrated his forty-first birthday. The two missionaries, upon hearing this, looked questioningly at each other. He had distinctly mentioned his forty-first birthday, yet they were well aware that at the open house it had been stated that it was the occasion of his eighty-sixth birthday. One thing, however, they did not know. During that same week he had also celebrated another anniversary that meant more to him than his birthday. It was the fortyfirst anniversary of his baptism into the Church of Jesus Christ of Latterday Saints. The first impression of the missionaries, who were not acquainted with this fact, was that the elderly gentleman was suffering from a lapse of memory. Upon hearing his testimony, however, they learned a vital lesson. This man had lived a worldly, irreligious life during the first forty-five years of his existence. He had profaned constantly as a matter of habit, gambled, caroused, and been cruel to his children and inconsiderate of his wife. Then one day some missionaries brought tracts to his home. He invited them back to spend an evening, intending to embarrass them with the questions he had so effectively used to silence ministers of the gospel who had formerly tried to persuade him to profess Christianity. The result was the opposite. He saw religion in a new light, and, two days after his forty-fifth birthday, he accepted the restored Gospel through the waters of baptism. To him this ordinance of baptism had real significance. He had developed faith in God and in the saving powers of the atonement of Jesus Christ. When he saw the worth of the real Christian message, he repented of his external, sinful acts, and prayed for God to forgive him for his former transgressions. He strove to control his temper which formerly had overcome his better judgment at the slightest provocation. He learned that the real Christian should Jove children, and so his cruelty toward his off. Spring was transformed into a fatherly love for the souls that God had entrusted to his care. His wife found that his former inconsiderate conduct was turned into love and devotion. In short, he was a changed man. He had been really "born again." He did not want to Temember his former life. It was something from which he had repented and he wanted it obliterated. When he entered the waters of baptism he did it to literally have his sins washed away. When he came up out of the watery grave, his old self had been buried, and he was a new man coming forth to a new life. The first forty-five years didn't count. They had been buried. This man had caught the spirit and meaning of truly being "born again." Is it any wonder that he was so grateful for his acceptance of the gospel that he counted time only from his entrance into the Church, although his children still celebrated the date of his physical birth into mortality? The true narration related above contains within it the basic elements of the doctrine of baptism, as taught by the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. The ordinance of baptism logically follows the Principles of faith in God and repentance from sin. Without these two Preparatory steps, baptism would be ineffective. Great stress is laid upon this ordinance beCause it carries with it, if the candidate has first been Properly prepared, the remission of sins. This gift is priceless, and those who have passed through the waters of baptism, fully aware of this promised telease from sins formerly committed, have emerged into a newness of life that cannot be described by words. Remission of sins, however, is but one of the purposes of baptism. Another purpose is to Provide an opportunity for the repentant sinner to show obedience to the commandments of Jesus, Perhaps mortals may never know just why baptism by immersion in water was instituted as such, instead of some other type of ordinance. It is a symbol of dying and resurrection, and of a new birth, but other symbolic ordinances might have been found instead of this one. We observe it as an ordinance, because we have been commanded to, whether we fully understand its purpose or not. Its acceptance becomes one of the manifestations of our faith in God and in Christ. Jesus himself, although not in need of a remission of sins, Presented himself to John the Baptist, stating that such a step was necessary in order to comply with the righteous requirements of God (Matt. 3:13-15). Another purpose of baptism is to afford each person an opportunity to make a covenant with God that he is desirous of taking the name of Christ upon him. This covenant becomes a sacred obligation and a powerful reminder of the obligation to serve the cause of Christ. One who has conscientiously entered into 784 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER 1946 LESSON DEPARTMENT waters of baptism, aware of this sacred opportunity, finds beauty and thrilling spiritual joys in later life. A covenant with God and Christ becomes a stimulus to live better and more nobly than before, and serves as a shield against the temptations of the world. By no means the least important part of baptism is the opportunity afforded to gain entrance to the Church. We believe that the Church is really the kingdom of God upon earth, which, in time, will be joined with the kingdom of heaven as the kingdom of God. To be a member of this choice group, to be strengtnered by the fine Christian lives of its members, and to be partakers of the fine spiritual fellowship the Church affords, are the blessings that come as a consequence of admittance into the Church. The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints teaches that it is not only necessary to observe the true form of complete immersion, but that divine authority is equally necessary. In revelations given to the Church in this day, the power to baptize is limited to certain offices in the Priesthood (see Doc. And Cov. 20:38-s9 and section 13). In determining the fitness of candidates for baptism into the Church, the scriptures present us with some very positive guides. First of all, the person must have reached the years of accountability before God and be capable of repentance (see Doc. And Cov. 20:71). The Lord has said: All those who humble themselves before God, and desire to be baptized, and come forth with broken hearts and contrite spirits, and witness before the Church that they have truly repented of 785 all their sins, and are willing to take upon them the name of Jesus Christ, having a determination to serve him to the end, and truly manifest by their works that they have received of the Spirit of Christ unto the remission of their sins, shall be received by baptism into his Church (Doc. And Cov. 20:37). The Book of Mormon contains what is pethaps the best statement to be found in all scripture concerning the responsibilities of those who accept baptism.... And now, as ye are desirous to come into the fold of God, and to be called his people, and are willing to bear one another's burdens, that they may be light; Yea, and are willing to mourn with those that mourn; yea, and comfort those that stand in need of comfort, and to stand as witnesses of God at all times and in all things, and in all places that ye may be in, even until death, that ye may be redeemed of God, and be numbered with those of the first resurrection, that ye may have eternal life—Now I say unto you, if this be the desire of your hearts, what have you against being baptized in the name of the Lord, as a witness before him that ye have entered into a covenant with him, that ye will serve him and keep his commandments, that he may pour out his Spirit more abundantly upon you? (Mosiah 18:8-10.) Discussion and Activity Problems 1. Discuss the full significance that is implied in the expression, "Except a man be born again, he cannot see the kingdom of God" (John 3:3). 2. Name four purposes that the ordinance of baptism accomplishes. 3. What rules should we apply in determining the fitness of a candidate for baptism, in accordance with the standard established in Doc. And Cov. 20:71? 4. Discuss the implications of the duties listed by Alma in Mosiah 18:8-10. 5. Members of the class who have joimed the Church in their adult years should be urged to relate their own feelings toward baptism, during the discus. Sion period. Hunter, Milton R.: The Gospel ism, pp. 86-89, 93-95. Widtsoe, John A: ology, pp. 111-117. Young, President Brigham: Discourses of Brigham Young, pp. 245-248; 1941 Ed., pp. 158-160. Smith, President Joseph F: Gospel Doctrine, pp. 118-126. Talmage, James E: Articles of Faith, pp. 120-134. Social Science—The Family in the Gospel Plan Lesson 4—Observing a Principle of Prosperity Social Science Committee, Leone O. Jacobs, Chairman For Tuesday, February 25, 1947 "The earth is full and there is enough and to spare." Our Heavenly Father has provided well for his children upon the earth. The things which are necessary for our well-being have been placed here in abundance, and we can all enjoy the good things of the earth if we practice certain proved principles. Sound economics are essential with individuals as well as families if they are to enjoy prosperity. The Value of Work FORTUNATE are those children who learn early in life the satisfaction that comes from work well done. Young people should learn that they must work for what they get in life whether it be knowledge or material things. "By the sweat of thy brow shalt thou eat bread" was one of the first commandments given to man. The Creator knew that work is essential for the welfare of the human race. Latter-day Saints have always been taught to labor and to be iudustrious. The Prophet Joseph Smith once rematked: "There is no place for an idler in the Church except that he repent and mend his ways" (See Doc. And Cov. 75:29). A great injustice is done to the youth who is deprived of the privilege of learning to work. Parents who impose no duties upon children make it difficult for them to compete later on with those who have learned, in their early years, to work. Habits of industry will stay with the individual throughout his entire life. It is often simpler to hire work done or to do it oneself than to have a child do the work. But, by following the easier way, a child's training is neglected. A wise mother insists that her daughter help prepare the evening meal, even though she knows it would be easier for her to do it than to train her daughter. While this training takes time and patience, nevertheless, it is the mother's responsibility. Art of Saving One of the most valuable habits children can acquire is the habit of saving. It is essential to a successful life. Saving seems to be a knack with some people, but it requires 'practice, as does any other habit. Saving means putting aside a portion of one's earnings systematically, no matter how small the amount. The amount saved is governed by the spending, as well as the earnings. The important thing is for a 786 References Through the Ages, pp. 192-206. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER 1946 _ Talmage, James E: Vitality of MormonA Rational The LESSON DEPARTMENT family to decide that they will consistently save and put something away for a future day. The time to begin is now—today, with whatever amount can be spared. In order to save regularly, there must be a plan that the whole family will agree to. Some part of the earnings must be set aside at pay periods. Extra money that is earne should be added to the savings account. If the small items are watched, such as money spent on shoe shines, movies, candy bars, magazines, and other incidentals, it will be surprising how fast the balance accumulates. In some families children are given money for birthday gifts. This money is added to ' their individual savings account each year. Over a period of years, this amount will grow to a considerable sum. Satisfaction will come to the entire family if they see 4 savings account growing as a result of united effort. Later in life this money can be used to very good advantage— for missions, college education, 4 new car, vacations, Of pethaps to meet unforeseen emergencies. Waste and Extravagance As a nation we are extravagant and wasteful. Waste is sinful and contrary to Latter-day Saint beliefs, both for the conduct of our individual lives and likewise of our govemment. It has been said that "Investigation will place at the head of causes of poverty, wastefulness 10- herited from wasteful parents." This '5 a serious indictment to parents who should always set an example of thrift and economy. The average American family, we ate told, wastes as much food each meal as is 787 consumed by family. The American garbage can is a national disgrace. An officer of one of our large cities recently made a survey to see how much food was being wasted. His survey of discarded food in cans in the better sectons of town, as well as in the poorer sections, revealed in both instances that great quantities of food were being wasted—slices of bread, scraps of meat, vegetables, and various other items being thrown away. Our wasteful habits must be corrected, particularly at this time, when millions of people in the world are going hungry. It is often the case that families with limited incomes use Poor judgment in buying. Especially ls this true of food buying. Prepared foods, pastries, and knickknacks are often tneconomical purchases. Welfare food agencies are constantly besieged for prepared cereals which are considerably more expensive, and often less nutritious, than cooked cereals. This is but one example. There are also millions of dollars worth of half-worn clothing hanging in the closets of American homes. This is a wanton extravagance when it is realized that minor alterations in style and renovating could give the clothing utility. A European peasant Wise Spending and Living Within One's Means The prosperity of a family de pends to a large extent on the way the income is spent. Unwise spending is the cause of much embarrassment and anxiety and causes family disunity. It is just as necessary to know how to spend as it is to know how to save. "We save carefully that we may spend wisely." Money wisely spent brings joy and happiness. "He who both saves and spends money is the happiest man because he has both enjoyments" (Boswell, James: Life of Dr. Johnson). Knowing how to use money, how to buy, what to buy, and when to buy is very important. One of the grave dangers facing many of our young people today is their inability to handle money. They do not know the value of a dollar because parents in too many cases have not trained them in the wise use Of money. Wages have been high and "easy come easy go," is a homely but true adage. Newly married couples can undermine a happy marital existence through unwise spending on the part of either. In these days of rapidly increasing costs, more attention must be given to budgeting; and young married people, particularly, should know how to budget their funds. It should be understood that the purpose of a budget is to enable one to tell money where to go instead of asking where it went. We are coming into an era of installment buying on a scale surpassing any hitherto known. Easy-payment plans and high-pressure salesmanship have been the cause of much financial unhappiness. Since this is an age of high-pressure methods, people trained in the art of selling appeal to the public through clever advertising—over the air, in the newspapers and magazines. More than ever sales resistance is a prerequisite to the successful handling of family finances. Much trouble and financial difficulties come to families living beyond their income and to those who think only of the present. We are continually being admonished by our Church leaders to live within our income, and to avoid debt. In Gospel Standards, President Grant wrote: There is a peace and contentment that comes into the heart when we live within our means. Families should counsel together concerning finances, and children should know what the family can and cannot afford. Parents should not bicker over money matters, especially before children. They should set a policy, have an understanding, and stay with it. Parents often overindulge their children, even to the extent of going without necessities themselves and going into debt. Young people are intelligent and sensible and they will be willing to do what is right, if the matter is presented to them fairly. Children may be put on an allowance, allowing them to buy their own clothes. It is necessary, then, to see that they live within their allowance and pay for their entertainment and other items of expense as well. Wife's Part in Money Matters The wife should have an active interest in the finances of the family. Too often she is not interested, thinking that it is the husband's responsibility alone. Many wives and mothers have found them- — selves widows with little or no knowledge of the simplest family finances—which is cruel, costly and often disastrous. Financially inexperienced widows are often the victims of unscrupulous salesmen. 788 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER 1946 LESSON DEPARTMENT A banker once said: If husbands would counsel with their wives before making investments and buying stocks, many financial losses would be averted. Women's natural intuition seems to make her discerning and cautious. A middleaged woman who never married because she felt it her duty to stay at home and assist her family recently said: H father had listened to mother and hadn't bought that worthless stock, things would have been different for us. We never received a cent from the worthless investment and had to mortgage the home and let some of the land go. Serious consideration should be given before signing on the dotted ne. One wise woman used to say that she never made an important decision until she had "slept on it." Tithing and Fast Offerings Tithing is fundamental in any consideration of prosperity in the family. Every individual in the Church should feel it a privilege to be a tithe payer. No family can afford to deny themselves the blessings, both temporal and spiritual, that come from being honest tithe payers. Our children should be made to realize that they are indebted to their Heavenly Father for everything, and that he expects little in return—only one tenth. Many people not of our faith pay one tenth of their incame to their church or some organization where it will be used for the relief of the poor and needy. They feel this is one way they can discharge their social obligations to mankind. Latter-day Saint children should be proud to feel that they have con- 4 789 tributed to the kingdom of God on earth. They should be reminded that the tithing they pay, small as the amount may be, has helped to build chapels, temples, helped to support the religious educational program of the Church, the missionary system, and helped to maintain ali other Church expenses. As we sit. In our comfortable meeting houses, Sunday after Sunday, where we come to worship, we should receive satisfaction in knowing that our contributions have helped to build, as well as maintain these houses. Imagine a father standing with his sons after the crops have been harvested, saying: "Well, boys, it is a joy to return one tenth to the Lord." Parents can direct their children to go to the bishop and pay their tithing on small amounts of money they have received. This will be of great value to the young boy or girl. Ouz children will need to keep account. Of what they have earned to know exactly how much they owe to the Lord. This will teach budgeting and encourage frugal habits of spending. Lessons in honesty will be learned. The boy who pays tithing is not likely to waste his time and money in games of chance and gambling. The Lord has made some startling promises to those who observe this law. Bring ye all the tithes unto the storehouse, that there may be meat in mine house, and prove me now herewith, saith the Lord of hosts, if I will not open to you the windows of heaven, and pour you out a blessing, that there shall not be room enough to receive it (Malachi 3:10). The fast offering is a wise and equitable way of taking care of the poor and needy. It is the financial basis of the great Welfare Plan. This free-will offering given to the bishop brings blessings to those who give as well as to those who receive. Through fasting, the physical body is brought into subjection to the spiritual body. Self-discipline is necessary in the lives of all for development. If parents will teach their children to fast, to give fast offerings, and to attend the fast meetings, they will be rewarded by having the faith of their children strengthened. The ability to save, which is the final proof of frugality and the foundation of prosperity in the family, is acquired through the payment of tithes and offerings. Observance of this command demands thoughtful management of family finances, and the by-products of such planning are the basis of prosperity. "The earth is full and there is enough and to spare." Questions for Discussion 1, Why is work a blessing to mankind? 2. What are the advantages of husband and wife counseling together on family finances? 3. How can parents best teach their children to pay tithing? 4. In your experience, do tithe payers usually prosper in a temporal way? 5. How can a family plan their budget so they can have the things they desire? References Smith, President Joseph F.: Gospel Doctrine, "Marriage, the Home and Family," PP. 374-375:; Discourses of Brigham Young, XV, "Tithing," pp. 269-281; 1941 edition, pp. 174-181. Deseret News, "Church Section," April 27, 1946, "Tithing"—ward teacher's message. _><- OLD LEAVES Beatrice K. Ekman The leaves from the sycamores, warped and dry, Blow over the roof as the wind rides by, And over the smooth paved city street, In rustling rows, advance and retreat. The voice of the wind sounds high and thin, As into the gutters the brown leaves spin, Bruised and broken and drenched with rain— To be dust when the trees are green again. - p—eMAGAZINE BINDERS NOW AVAILABLE Magazine binders, into which 12 single copies of The Relief Society Magazine may be inserted or removed at will, are once mare available. These binders are a great convenience to all stake and ward Relief Society offfcers and class leaders, and to all Magazine subscribers who wish to keep a current year's issues of the Magazine together. These binders may be obtained at the office of the General Board of Relief Society, 28 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City 1, Utah, at $1.20 postpaid. * 790 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER 1946 tt g there is anything calculated to interest the mind of the Saints, to awaken in them the finest sensibilities, and arouse them to enterprise and exertion, surely it is the great and precious promises made by our Heavenly Father to the children of Abraham."— —*'Teachings of the Prophet Joseph Smith,'' page 163. Between the covers of this book is the story of our Father Abraham's Children—and of God's "precious promises" to them. Have you read it? Here is a chart of the beginning of your pedigree—24 generations from Adam to Ephraim. It is complete with dates and references. THE AUTHOR, James H. Anderson, was an outstanding student of scripture and history. He has written about YOUR RACIAL FAMILY and birthright. This beautifully bound book and chart will pleasantly surprise you. For your own library—or for a friend you want to please at Christmas time—send in your order today. (CUT HERE AND MAIL TODAY) EARL W. HARMER, Publisher 945 So. 7th East, Salt Lake City 4, Utah Please send postpaid the books checked below: O GOD'S COVENANT RACE ee-$2.00 By James H. Anderson (0 THE STORY OF THE MORMON PIONEERS oouno. Oo........-ececcecescceccsccecsssesesesessecetsecsesensseneeess$2.00 By Mabel Harmer CU *FAMOUS MASCOTS AND K-9's 022.2 ccnee ence ance ene nee eee eee ence cena eanenecnneeneneeeneaveees$2.00 y Mabel Harmer (0 *DENNIS AND THE MORMON BATTALION 22 ccc cccseeseccc eee cence eeeceeeenneeeens $2.00 * Written expressly for young people. (1 Check or money order enclosed OO Send C. O. D. Name Address Your Order Will Receive Prompt Attention For Happier, More Successful FAMILY LIFE FAMILY ETERNAL, by Roy A. West, points out new horizons for every family. Here are a few of many vital topics: A Spiritual Interpretation Choosing Friends Seeking a Companion Harmonizing Two Personalities Composition of the Mormon Family Guiding the Formation of Attitudes Enjoying Our Home — Sustaining Influence of the ome FAMILY ETERNAL is a reference book for Relief Society "Social Science'' lessons. For yourself or for a friend, send in your order now—by postal card, telephone, or in person. BOOKCRAFT 1186 South Main—Salt Lake City, Utah Telephone 7-7911 BOOKS rapisTyAs Few other gifts carry with them the satisfaction that attends the giving and receiving of a good book. For any L. D. S. BOOK Write EZRA L. MARLER Books by Mail P. O. Box 267 Salt Lake City, Utah STANDARD PRICES Prompt, Personal Service Promised Keep a price list of L. D. S. Books handy in your home. It's yours for the asking. — + should always be the resuli when energy is expended. Yet, like a dizzily spinning top. Many businesses go 'round in the preparation of advertising and get nowhere. Month after month, the same thing happens again and again and nothing is accomplished by the expenditure of dollars that could be made to produce results. The function of a printing organization today is to help clients to plan printing that builds sales—to take copy and dramatize it, make it so irresistibly attractive that it must naturally draw the reader's attention. The waste of which we speak is often due to lack of understanding. Realization of this has made us sales minded. Your selling problem, and our experience puts us in a position to print your sales story so that it will get results. THE DESERET NEWS PRESS 29 Richards Street—Salt Lake City, Utah Page 792 There's a NATIONAL Bible to meet every Bible need For all ages and all purposes, there are no finer Bibles than those which bearthe Nationalimprint. Publishers of the authorized King James Version only. National BiBLes SINCE 1863 AT YOUR BOOKSTORE MUSIC Specially Suitable for Reliof Society MY REDEEMER LIVES (Gates)._..18 I WILL EXALT THEE, O LORD (Harris) AS O LORD MOST HOLY (Franck) 15 HOLY REDEEMER (Marchelli)...15 PEACE I LEAVE WITH 'YOU 23RD PSALM (Schubert). Ae) |S) IN THY FORM (Madsen) - 10 Above numbers in octavo. S. S. A. Postage additional. We specialize in L. D. S. Church music. Also carry large stock for schools and home use. Dealers in Steinway and Lester pianos, band and orchestra instruments, talking machines. Records cnd musicians' supplies. DAYNES MUSIC CO. We solicit your patronage BOOKS You'll Need for Reference Upon the following titles are based many important parts of the 1946-47 Relief Society Lesson Course: "THE GOSPEL KINGDOM" from discourses and writings of President John Taylor "THE GOSPEL THROUGH THE AGES" Milton R. Hunter..........._. $1.30 "GOSPEL DOCTRINE" President Joseph F, Smith $2.50 "TEACHINGS OF THE PROPHET JOSEPH SMITH" $2 5 "THE WAY TO PERFEC- $1.50 $2.50 $2.25 $2.25 TION" Joseph Fielding Smith.. Cose DISCOURSES OF WILFORD WOODRUFF "GOSPEL STANDARDS" President Heber J. Grant DESERET BOOK COMPANY THE BOOK CENTER OF THE INTERMOUNTAIN WEST 44 East South Temple P. O. Box 958 Salt Lake City 10, Utah "BRIGHAM YOUNG, THE MAN AND HIS "a Preston Nibley "ESSENTIALS IN CHURCH HISTORY" Joseph Fielding Smith "ARTICLES OF FAITH" James E. Talmage "EVIDENCES AND REC OMS TIONS" John A. Widtsoe.............-.. "DISCOURSES OF BRIGHAM YOUNG" "RESTORATION OF ALL THINGS" Joseph Fielding Smith $2.50 $2.00 $1.25 91.85 $2.50 51.75 When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine (Roberts) __........ 45-47 S. Main St. Joseph Fielding Smith... Enclosed is $ Name weceseeezeee lO Salt Lake City 1 = Send the titles as checked above. Address. U. S. POSTAGE 2¢ Paid SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH 1} F C PERMIT No. 690 Let us be thankful in this three hundred and twenty-sixth year since the coming of our Pilgrim Fathers for a free America where justice and liberty prevail, for an ideology that "all men are created equal," for an abundant harvest, and for the assurance of continuing financial security for ourselves and for our families through the great American institution of Life Insurance. ToT y" PANY ad SP, OD HOME OFFICE—BENEFICIAL LIFE BUILDING SALT LAKE City 1, UTAH GEORGE ALBERT SMITH, PRESIDENT VOL, 33 NO. 12 Lassons for March THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Monthly publication of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints RELIEF SOCIETY GENERAL BOARD Belle S. Spafford - - - - - - President Marianne C. Sharp - - First Counselor Gertrude R. Garff - - Second Counselor Margaret C. Pickering - - Secretary-Treasurer 1 Achsa E. Paxman Edith S. Elliott Leone G. Layton Leone O. Jacobs Mary G. Judd Priscilla L. Evans Blanche B. Stoddard Velma N. Simonsen Luella N. Adams Florence J. Madsen Evon W. Peterson Isabel B. Callister Anna B. Hart Ann P. Nibley RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Editor - - - - - - - - - - Marianne C. Sharp Editorial Secretary - - - - - - - - Vesta P. Crawford General Manager - - - - - - - - - Belle S. Spafford Vol. 33 DECEMBER 1946 No. 12 Con tents SPECIAL FEATURES Our Wives and Our Mothers in the Eternal Plan.................. President J. Reuben Clark, Jr. 795 Hearken to Counsel: Elder Jogeph Fielding Smith 805 The Place of Relief Society in the Welfare Plan Elder Harold B. Lee 809 Bruce Redd McConkie Sustained a Member of the First Council of Seventy.................... Fo ---~ +> Gs, Counselor Marianne C. Sharp 818 Marvin O. Ashton Elder Bryant S. Hinckley 820 Christmas and the True Christian Spirit Elder T. Rar Lyon 82) Christmas on the Mantel................... Elizabeth Williamson 825 FICTION Prelude to Christmas Frances C. Yost 834 Faith Is a Heritage—Chapter 9... Christie Lund Coles 838 GENERAL FEATURES Sixty Years Ago. 828 oman's Sphere oo cece sesecseeeessteeseee.. Ramona W. Cannon 829 Editorial: A Tie That Binds Se... A inGertrude R. Garff 830 In Memoriam: Grace Elizabeth Pack Callis _. 83) Notes to the Field: Organizations and Reorganizations of Mission and Stake Relief Societies hae LESSON DEPARTMENT Theology: The Welfare Plan Initiated Elder H. Wayne Driggs 844 Visiting Teachers' Messages: Self Reliance ooo. Cece cece ecseeeeeePresident Amy Brown Lyman 848 Work Meeting—Sewing: inishing, Trimming, Collars, Bands, Hems Ps: Work Meeting Committee 849 Literature: Carrying America Across @ Continent 2.00... EeeElder Howard R. Driggs 850 Laying On of Hands for the Gift of the Holy Ghost 2.0.00 ees Elder T. Edgar Lyon 855 Social Science: Importance of Religious Instruction in the Home...... Social Science Committee 858 POETRY The Traveler—Frontispiece........ Margery S. Stewart 793 The House of Bread........... Anna Prince Redd 804 Christmas-Eve Magic.: - ary J. Morris 819 The Grandmother......... Ey a Theoda Hart Srasthoee 824 Jeanette P, Parry 831 Dressing a Doll Br = Maud Blixt Trone 843 Precious Seasons Thelma Ireland 843 Not Comfortless........ Beatrice K. Ekman 862 Christmas Cards. Dorothy J, Roberts 863 PUBLISHED MONTHLY BY THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY Editorial and Business Offices: 28 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City 1, Utah, Phone 8-2741. Ex. 243. Subscription Price: $1.00 a year; foreign, $1.00 a year; payable in advance. Single copy, 10c. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving both old and new address, Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts. MAGAZINE CIRCULATION, 77,500 THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE VOL. 33, NO. 12 DECEMBER 1946 THE TRAVELER Margery S. Stewart Did Mary wait beside the village inn, Grateful for shadows, sheltering and cool, And smile in answer to a small boy's smile, As he went whistling to the sun-warmed pool? Did women pause and murmur gentle things, Wondering at Mary's face, its radiant awe, Before they hurried to the shaded well, Telling the first one there to haste and draw A gourd of water for the burdened girl? Did Mary hold again, with gentle hands, The swaddling clothes so finely spun and made, Seeing her baby in their tender bands, Feeling the hour grow nigh with quickening dusk? Did she see Joseph coming, and rise up And go to meet him, glad for journey's end, Lifting in silence every mother's cup? The Cover: "Rock Canyon in Winter," Photograph by Dr. Walter P. Cottam MARY OF NAZARETH From the painting "Star of Bethlehem" by Piglhein Our Wives and Our Mothers in the Eternal Plan President J. Reuben Clark, Jr. [Delivered at the general session of the general Relief Society conference held in the Tabernacle, Thursday afternoon, October 3, 1946.] S I look out over this great audience, Sister Spafford, I wonder where you are going to put the Priesthood tomorrow. I am greatly honored in being asked to address you again. It seems to me only last conference that this honor was accorded me before. I would like to endorse all that our good sisters have said here today, and to congratulate Sister Spafford on the far vision which she has of the work of your great organization, the greatest organization of its kind in the world. I pray that the blessings of the Lord may be with the Relief Society, for you do a service which no other organization in the Church can do. My subject today is a request subject. Some months ago, before a stake conference, I gave a little talk which some of your officers heard, and thought that you might be interested if I repeated it, elaborating it somewhat. I apologize for reading it but I had so much to say that I wanted to say reasonably carefully, that I thought my only safety would be in writing it out, and therefore, I shall read it to you. To find the place of our wives and mothers in the eternal plan, we must trace out the creation and peopling of this earth from "the beginning," yet remembering the Lord has said that "unto myself my works have no end, neither beginning" (Doc. And Cov. 29:33; and see Doc. And Cov. 39:1; 20:26; 61:1; 76:4; 88; 6:13; 93:8-10; Moses 1:3; Ps. 90:2; 102:27) and remembering also that as to this earth John de clared: "In the beginning was the Word, and the Word was with God, and the Word was God. The same was in the beginning with God," (John 1:1-2) and remembering further that, in our day, the Lord has made clear that for this earth "Man was also in the beginning with God" (Doc. And Cov. 93:29). I shall trace out the account of the creation according to my understanding of the sequence of the scriptures. The Lord has declared to us in our day that he "looked upon the wide expanse of eternity, and all the seraphic hosts of heaven, before the world was made" (Doc. And Cov. 38:1). He told Abraham, having first shown him "the intelligences that were organized before the world was": "I came down in the beginning in the midst of all the intelligences thou hast seen" and "organized" them (Abraham 3:21-22). Thereafter, God held, in the due course of our mundane creation as recorded in scriptural sequence, a Great Council in Heaven, in which it seems all of us may have participated, Page 795 796 and he told Abraham that he, God, then stood in the midst of these intelligences, and "among all these there were many of the noble and great ones; And God saw these souls that they were good... And he said: These I will make my rulers; for he stood among those that were spirits... And he said unto me: Abraham, thou art one of them; thou wast chosen before thou wast born" (Abraham 3:22-23). [N the Great Council, so convened, two plans were presented for creating and peopling an earth. The one by Satan proposed to destroy the agency of man and to redeem all mankind that not one soul be lost. Men were to be mere automatons (Moses 4:1-4). 'This plan was rejected because all growth and progress come by work and overcoming obstacles. The other plan, proposed by the Only Begotten, left man his free agency, that he might become strong and advance in learning, knowledge, wisdom, and righteousness by conquering error.. As part of his plan the Only Begotten proposed: We will go down, for there is space there, and we will take of these materials, and we will make an earth whereon these may dwell" (Abraham 3:24). This plan was accepted. 'And then," says the record, "the Lord said: Let us go down. And they went down at the beginning, and they, that is the Gods, organized and formed the heavens and the earth" (Abraham 4:1). The scriptures hold one language, that the Only Begotten Son was the actual workman who built the world, as well as all that exists upon RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1946 it, plant, animal, and man. John, in his great hymn opening his Gospel, from which I have already quoted, sang: In the beginning was the Word, and the Word was with God, and the Word was God. The same was in the beginning with God. All things were made by him; and without him was not any thing made that was made. In him was life; and the life was the light of men... And the Word was made flesh, and dwelt among us, (and we beheld his glory, the glory as of the only begotten of the Father, ) full of grace and truth (John 1:1-4, 14). Moreover, in a mighty vision, Moses, by the Spirit of God: Beheld the earth, yea even all of it; and there was not a particle of it which he did not behold,.... And he beheld also the inhabitants thereof, and there was not a soul which he beheld not; and he discerned them by the Spirit of God; and their numbers were great, even numberless as the sand upon the sea shore.... And the Lord God said unto Moses: For mine own purpose have I made these things. Here is wisdom and it remaineth in me. And by the word of my power, have I created them, which is mine Only Begotten Son, who is full of grace and truth (Moses 1:27-28, 31-32). We might observe, furthermore, that God has other worlds in the universe. He declared to Moses: And worlds without number have I created; and I also created them for mine own purpose; and by the Son I created them, which is mine Only Begotten.... For behold, there are many worlds that have passed away by the word of my power. And there are many that now stand, and innumerable are they unto man; but all things are numbered unto me, for they are mine and I know them (Moses 1:33, 353 7:30, 36). ' After the Lord described the creation of the earth in the six "days" mentioned in Genesis and in the Book of Moses, or in the six "times" mentioned in the Book of Abraham, he made to Moses the following declaration, paralleled in his words to Abraham: For I, the Lord God, created all things, of which I have spoken, spiritually, before they were naturally upon the face of the earth. For I, the Lord God, had not caused it to rain upon the face of the earth. And I, the Lord God, had created all the children of men; and not yet a man to till the ground; for in heaven created I them; and there was not yet flesh upon the earth, neither in the water, neither in the air; But I, the Lord God, spake, and there went up a mist from the earth, and watered the whole face of the ground. And I, the Lord God, formed man from the dust of the ground, and breathed into his nostrils the breath of life; and man became a living soul, the first flesh upon the earth, the first man also; nevertheless, all things were before created; but spiritually were they created and made according to my word (Moses 3:5-7). Abraham records the creation of man in these words: And the Gods formed man from the dust of the ground, and took his spirit (that is, the man's spirit), and put it into him; and breathed into his nostrils the breath of life, and man became a living soul (Abraham 5:7). HUS, as to this earth, there were two creations, first the spiritual (Gen. 1; 2:5; Moses 2; 3:5; 6:51; Abraham 4; 5:5), and then the temporal (Gen. 2:1-25; Moses 3: 6-24; Abraham 5:6-18; Doc. And Cov. 29:31), as we name them, though we should remember that, in our day, the Lord has told us, speaking of things "temporal" and things "spiritual," and contrasting them, "all things unto me are spiritual." (Doc. And Cov. 29:34.) According to the sequence of the scriptural record, the Lord, after making man "from the dust of the ground," planted a Garden, "eastward in Eden"; then made plant life to grow "out of the ground," with "living souls." In Eden, God planted also the two fateful trees—the tree of life and the tree of the knowledge of good and evil, concerning which God gave specific commandments to Adam. He caused a river to flow "out of Eden to water the garden." (Moses 3:8-14; Abraham 5:7 ff.; Gen. 2:8 ff.) The Lord then recorded: And I, the Lord God, took the man, and put him into the Garden of Eden, to dress it, and to keep it (Moses 3:15; and see Abraham 5:11; Gen. 2:15). Following this in the scnptural sequence, the record reads: And out of the ground I, the Lord God, formed every beast of the field, and every fowl of the air; and commanded that they should come unto Adam, to see what he would call them; and they were also living souls; for I, God, breathed into them the breath of life, 4nd commanded that whatsoever Adam called every living creature, that should be the name thereof.... But as for Adam, there was not found an help meet for him (Moses 3:19- 20; and see Abraham 5:20; Gen. 2:19). Thus Adam had some part in this temporal creation, just what part is not definitely set out in the scriptural record, except that he did give the animals their names. By this we might possibly understand that at least he took a sort of census, checked over the creations, perhaps making sure that each of the great animal families was represented by types that were capable of being the progenitors from which might spring and develop the various types and sub-types and species now extant, in the same way and by the same natural processes that the different OUR WIVES AND OUR MOTHERS IN THE ETERNAL PLAN 797 798 races and peoples of today's earth stem back to a common progenitor pair—Adam and Eve. Thus, on the scriptural record, Adam's service may have determined when the creation was complete. But that point is not important in our discussion today. What were the processes of creation? How was it done? Paul declared to the Hebrews that "Through faith we understand that the worlds were framed by the word of God" (Hebrews 11:3)—faith which is declared to be the gift of God (Rom. 10:17; I Cor. 12:9). Now Paul defined faith as "the substance of things hoped for, the evidence of things not seen" (Heb. WT Orson Pratt said: And as faith is the moving cause of all action in temporal concems, so it is in spiritual.... By this we understand that the principle of power which existed in the bosom of God, by which the worlds were framed, was faith.... Had it not been for the principle of faith the worlds would never have been framed, neither would man have been formed of the dust (Lectures on Faith, Sec. 1:12, 15-16). Through what instrumentality was this faith employed? We have already given the scriptures declaring that the Only Begotten did the work, with help from others acting under the authority and command of the Father (Abraham 4). What was this authority? Brigham Young said: If anybody wants to know what the Priesthood of the Son of God is, it is the law by which the worlds are, were, and will continue for ever and ever. It is that system which brings worlds into existence and peoples them, gives them their revolutions—their days, weeks, months, years, their seasons and times and by which they are rolled up as a scroll, as it RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1946 were, and go into a higher state of exist: ence (Discourses, page 201; 1941 edition, page 130). The Prophet Joseph has told us: The Priesthood is an everlasting principle, and existed with God from eternity, and will to eternity, without beginning of days or end of years; that Christ is the Great High Priest; Adam next and that Adam obtained his priesthood in the Creation, before the world was formed (Smith's Teachings, pp. 157-158). Up to this point in the eternal course of world progression, as recorded in the scriptures, the Priesthood had performed the full service rendered, all had been done in the spiritual and temporal creations by the Great High Priest, with Adam, who stands "next," and others assisting (See Abraham 4). Plant life had been so created that by the laws of reproduction set up to govern that life, plants might propagate their own kinds; animal life had been created, male and female, that they might reproduce each its own kind. NOW: again following the scriptural order of events, it is recorded before the record is made that Adam was given a body 'from the dust of the earth,' that God said to him (and it may be to all the hosts assembled): "Be fruitful, and multiply, and replenish the earth" (Moses 2:28; Abraham 4:28). Upon the fulfillment of this command, so given, depended the whole Plan of the Great Council in Heaven, because those who kept their "first estate," must have opportunity to come to earth, to obtain mortal bodies, that they might then be proved in this "second estate," "to see if they will do all things whatsoever the Lord their God shall command them... And they who keep their second estate shall have glory added upon their heads for ever and ever" (Abra- _ ham 3:25-26). To provide mortal bodies and a mortal life and experience for the waiting spirits, was the very purpose of the creation. Adam, still in intimate association with the Lord, must have remembered at least a part of what he knew before he was made "'from the dust of the ground," and, if so, he must have recalled the eternal truth of motherhood, so beautifully voiced by Eliza R. Snow in her great poem: In the heavens are parents single? No; the thought makes reason stare! Truth is reason, truth eternal Tells me I've a mother there. Yet, notwithstanding the great powers of the Priesthood which he held, Adam was powerless to go forward by himself, to the providing of earthly tabernacles for the spirits eager to enter into their "second estate," so that, as the Lord's plan provided, they might have opportunity to "prove" themselves, and, so doing, "have glory added upon their heads for ever and ever." Under the eternal law, there must be a father not only, but a mother as well. "And I, God," declared the Father, "created man in mine own image, in the image of mine Only Begotten created I him; male and female created I them" (Moses 2:27; Gen. 1:27). To work all this out, it was indispensable that the Priesthood, powerful as it was, must have help. Adam must have an helpmeet. We will recall that, according to the sequence of the record, the Lord, after he laid out the Garden of Eden and watered it, said: And I, the Lord God, took the man, and put him into the Garden of Eden, to dress it, and to keep it (Moses 3:15; Abraham 5:11; Gen. 2:15). Thereafter, the Lord explained to Adam and gave to him the commandments regarding the tree of life and the tree of the knowledge of good and evil. After the Lord God placed Adam in the Garden, he spoke thus: And I, the Lord God, said unto mine Only Begotten, that it was not good that the man should be alone; wherefore, I will make an help meet for him (Moses 3:18; Abraham 5:14; Gen. 2:18). NE may easily believe that some longing or unexpressed desire of Adam, alone in the magnificence and glory of Eden, drew this expression of purpose from the loving Father. For Adam, still in communion with the Father, not yet forgetting that in Heaven parents are not single and that he had a mother there, and still recalling (as we have just pointed out) the Great Plan presented to the Council of Heaven which provided that all the intelligences there assembled were to have the chance to come to earth, receive bodies, and, desiring it, "keep their second estate," (Abraham 3:25 ff) Adam, with all this in mind, must have realized the great responsibility which rested upon him; he must have known the part he was to play (for, we must remember, not yet was he shut out from the Father), and he knew, what later, after the Fall, Eve was to sing, (Moses 5:11) that 'he must have seed, that he must know good from evil, that he might have the joy of redemption, and the eternal life which God giveth unto all the obediOUR WIVES AND OUR MOTHERS IN THE ETERNAL PLAN 799 ent.' Adam alone, no matter what his Priesthood, could not bring this about. He must have a helper. But, Adam wandered alone in the glorious Garden in Eden, which he had dressed and adorned—the Garden of Eden with its stately trees, its lovely flowers heavy with sweet odors, its grassy swards, its magnificent vistas with the far reaches of its placid rivers, with its gaily plumed 'birds, its lordly and graceful beasts, all at peace, for sin was not yet in the world. Through all this magnificence Adam wandered, lonely, unsolaced, uncompanioned, the only being of his kind in the whole world, his life unshared in a solitude: of exquisite elegance, and, what was of far greater moment, his mission, as he knew it to be, impossible of fulfillment, except the Father gave him an helpmeet. So, obedient to the necessities of the commandment given that man should multiply and replenish the earth; pursuant to his promise, after he had placed Adam in the Garden of Eden, that since it was not good that man should be alone, God would make an helpmeet for him; and resultant from his observation, following the record of the creation of the animal kingdom "out of the ground" (Moses 3:19-20), that 'there was not found an helpmeet for Adam,' the Father created and brought to Adam, his wife, Eve. Then Adam cried aloud: This I know now is bone of my bones, and flesh of my flesh; she shall be called Woman, because she was taken out of man (Moses 3:23). Glorified by the joy of this great blessing that had come to him, Adam announced the great law of marnage, the union of man and wife, joined together by the power of the © Priesthood for time and for all eternity: Therefore shall a man leave his father and his mother, and shall cleave unto his wife; and they shall be one flesh (Moses 3:24; Abraham 5:18; Genesis 2:24). So came Eve, an helpmeet to the Priesthood mission of Adam—Eve the last created being in the creation of the world, without whom the whole creation of the world and all that was in the world would have been in vain and the "purposes of God have come to naught. Receiving her, Adam took her in her purity, took her, radiant and divinely fair, into the Garden he had dressed and kept for her, into the bridal home he had built, into the Garden that from then till now has been the symbol of heaven on earth, there to begin together their earthly life, that was finally to bring opportunity for salvation and exaltation to the untold myriads of spirits then waiting for the mortal tabernacles these two were to make it possible for them to possess. THE Only Begotten had fashioned the world, had filled it with beautiful flowers and lofty forests, with grasses and grains, and multitudes of living creatures; Adam had had some part in this. But the key to the glorious arch of temporal, earthly creation for man was still missing. So Eve came to build, to organize, through the power of the Father, the bodies of mortal men, to be a creator of bodies under the faculties given her by the Priesthood of God, so that God's design and the Great Plan might meet fruition. 800 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1946 This was her calling; this was her blessing, bestowed by the Priesthood. This is the place of our wives and of our mothers in the Eternal Plan. They are not bearers of the Priesthood; they are not charged with carrying out the duties and functions of the Priesthood; nor are they laden with its responsibilities; they are builders and organizers under its power, and partakers of its blessings, possessing the complement of the Priesthood powers and possessing a function as divinely called, as eternally important in its place as the Priesthood itself. Millenniums later, Paul, under the inspiration of God, was to declare: Nevertheless neither is the man without the woman, neither the woman without the man, in the Lord. For as the woman is of the man, even so is the man also by the woman; but all things of God (I Cor. 11:11-12), When, after the Fall, both Adam and Eve knowing good from evil, the Lord promised them redemption and Adam prophesied concerning their posterity. Eve, hearing the glorious Plan and the destiny of herself and Adam, was gladdened, and broke into a great song of praise: Were it not for our transgression we never should have had seed, and never should have known good and evil, and the joy of our redemption, and the eternal hfe which God giveth unto all the obedient (Moses 5:11). From that day, when Eve thus placed first among her blessings the power to bear children, the greatest glory of true womanhood has been motherhood. What a miracle is motherhood; how nearly infinite is mother. She fashions in her womb the most complex structure known to man, the whole visible universe being, in contrast, the simplest of creations. From the cell she herself has built from the dust of the earth, fructified by the father cell formed also of dust of the earth by the father, she mounts cell on cell, each born of clay, till the normal man is brought into the world—built of head and trunk and limbs, of bone and flesh and blood, of brain, eyes, ears, and mouth, of muscles and sinews and nerves, of heart and lungs and stomach and intestines, of liver and spleen and kidneys, of glands and lymphs, of arms, hands and fingers, of legs, feet and toes, all of these and every vein and artery and nerve, every nail upon the fingers, every joint and muscle, each and every one in its never-varying place (save some prank of malformation), never the feet where the head should be, never the heart and lungs below and the liver and spleen and kidneys above, but all in perfect order, every man brought forth organized as were those who went before, as they will be who come after, the pattern in all its infinite detail faithfully followed down to the last jot and tittle of the human frame—a body fashioned in the very image of the Son who was in the image of the Father. What an infinitely glorious concept, what a supreme destiny, and what a divine-like achievement. This is wife's and mother's task and opportunity and did she fail so. That new body-forms came or that none came, then the Great Plan would fail and God's purposes would come to naught. They must build in the likeness of the Father and "the 'Son. "lls must ewer change. OUR WIVES AND OUR MOTHERS IN THE ETERNAL PLAN 801 THYs she must go forward always, from now till time, being no more, merges into eternity, that all the spirits keeping their "first estate," shall come into their "second estate" to prove whether they shall live that estate and be given life everlasting. Thus Eve's daughters, under the destiny God gave to them, must build for every spirit, a body that the spirit can call its own for the span of time not only, but for the expanse of eternity through the resurrection, so that every soul, willing to work and sacrifice for it, can 'Decome perfect even as our Father in Heaven is perfect.' Eve's daughters only can do the service that thus makes possible this perfection. The Priesthood cannot do this without the helpmeet. Her spirit breathing to her mind this divine truth, the mother folds the newborn to her breast, and into her soul comes the mother love that lives thence forever, for this tiny being is 'bone of her bone, flesh of her flesh.' The crowning glory of motherhood came to the daughters of Eve, when, in Bethlehem, there was born to Mary of Nazareth, a mortal, the Christ child, begot of the Father. Gabriel "sent from God," had foretold to Mary, "Hail... Highly favoured, the Lord is with thee: blessed... Thou among women" (Luke 1:28). And later Mary's cousin Elisabeth, about to bear John, the Great Forerunner of whom the Christ declared, "Among them that are born of women there hath not risen a greater than John the Baptist" (Matt. 11:11; see Luke 7:28). Elisabeth "filled with the Holy Ghost, spake out with a loud voice" to Mary, who came _ to visit her, saying, "Blessed art thou among women, and blessed is the fruit of thy womb" (Luke 1:41-42). Then Mary, likewise inspired, broke forth into her great song of joy and humble triumph: My soul doth magnify the Lord, And my spirit hath rejoiced in God my Saviour. For he hath regarded the low estate of his handmaiden; for, behold, from henceforth all generations shall call me blessed. For he that is mighty hath done to me great things; and holy is his name. And his mercy is on them that fear him from generation to generation. He hath shewed strength with his arm; he hath scattered the proud in the imagi- | nation of their hearts. He hath put down the mighty from their seats, and exalted them of low deee. He hath filled the hungry with good things; and the rich he hath sent empty away. He hath holpen his servant Israel, in remembrance of his mercy; As he spake to our fathers, to Abraham, and to his seed for ever (Luke 1:46 ff.). So spake this mortal mother soon to bear the mortal, yet deified Chnist. The spirit of prophecy entered her soul, and, recalling the past, and being enlightened as to the future, she forecast the. Work and service, the love and character of him whom she was to bring forth —the Christ, the Redeemer of the World. S° measurably may every mother who has lived and is living righteously, envision something of the destiny of her offspring, if it be God's will. But the full glory of motherhood is not yet reached when her child comes forth into this world of trial, nor is her opportunity for service passed when her creation breathes 802 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1946 the breath of life. Still from the dust of the earth she must fabricate the food that keeps alive and nour. Ishes the little one. She feeds not only, but clothes it. She cares for it by day and watches over it by night. When illness comes, she nurses it with that near divine love that fills her heart. She gently leads its faltering steps, till it walks alone. She helps to frame its first lisps and teaches it the full art of speech. As consciousness matures, _ she deftly sows into the plastic mind the love of God, of truth, and, as the years flow by and youth comes on, she adds the love of honor, of honesty, of sobriety, of industry, of chastity. She teaches, bit by bit, loyalty and reverence and devotion. She implants and makes part of the growing, virgin intellect an under. Standing of the restored gospel. She steadies the swaying will when temptation first comes. She builds into the warp and woof of her creation, self-control, independence, rightcousness, love of God, and a desire and will to serve him. Thus to the full stature of manhood and womanhood, mother guides, incites, entreats, instructs, directs, on occasion commands, the soul for which she built the earthly home, in its march onward to exaltation. God gives the soul its destiny, but mother leads it along the Way. When the souls Shall return 'to ' the presence of the Father of All, the worthy mothers will be there to welcome their worthy children, and bow and humbly speak: FATHER, we come back to thee with the righteous souls whose earthly bodies thou lettest us to build, 'bone of our bone, flesh of our flesh,' all to thine everlasting honor and glory and to our blessing and exaltation forever. Blessed were our wombs, for they bore children, even as thou didst command, in the image. Of thine Only Begotten, who is in the image of thee. Richly fruitful have been our blessings on earth, for we come back home to thee with these thy children. Great is the joy of this the end of our labors, for these souls have been saved with eternal life. Blessed were we in our example set, for thou gavest us the power to live worthily; in the teaching of thy children, thou didst give us a goodly measure of wisdom, Blessed were we in our faith, for thou didst richly endow us with this thy gift. Blessed were we in our understanding, for thou didst cause the Holy Ghost to enlighten our minds. Blessed were we in our living, for thou didst give us patience and kindliness, and forgiving natures, with charity and unbounded love. Blessed were we that thou didst send these spirits to the bodies which we by thy power fashioned, for they were choice spirits. Blessed were we in their Tearing, for they walked always in thy paths: and in their maturity they departed not from the ways of their youth. Blessed were Wwe in their companionship, for they were loving and kind, respectful and obedient to us. Blessed were we in the mortal fathers of our children's bodies, for they gave us comfort and help, and love and kindness unmeasured, and OUR WIVES AND OuR MOTHERS IN THE ETERNAL PLAN 803 804 likewise walked worthily before thee. Our souls cry out to thee, our Father, in worship of thee, for thou hast been with us from the beginning and hast covenanted to be with us during all eternity. Honor and Glory and Love to thee forever, and forever. Then we shall believe the Father will say to the mothers: Well done, thou good and faithful handmaids, enter thou into the rest I have prepared for those who builded the mortal temples in which dwelt the spirits I created, that they might keep their second estate, for without the keeping of their second estate they could not have "glory added upon their heads for ever and ever" (Abraham 3:26). And then the Priesthood will wish to proclaim their debt to these their helpmeets without whom the Priesthood could not have worked out their destiny. And the Priesthood shall bow in reverence and in love RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1946 unbounded before these mothers who did the service the Priesthood could not do, and thank and praise them for bearing their children, a service without which God's purposes had failed and the intelligences which God called around him "in the beginning" had been deprived of the divine destiny God marked out for them in the Great Council held in Heaven before the earth was formed. These, Wives and Mothers in Israel, are your rewards and your destinies. And » your offspring, saved and exalted in the presence of God, will never forget you, will ever bless you, and will sing hymns of eternal gratitude for the bodies you gave them and taught them to make the Temples of the Spirit of God. _ God be thanked for the knowledge he has given us of all this. Overflow our hearts with gratitude for this great destiny, I ask, in the name of Jesus, the Christ, Amen. <> THE HOUSE OF BREAD (Bethlehem, the House of Bread) Anna Prince Redd Judea's every thoroughfare Into the town was lined; The people could not be delayed For food, nor rest, nor prayer, The taxes must be paid. Among the travelers, far behind, Slowly, anxiously, for there had been A pulse of fear in every breath, Came Joseph, and she of Nazareth, Unto the village inn. But there was no room for her, no bed, In Bethlehem, the house of bread. And Mary's face was drawn; Joseph, kind and good, beguiled * The time for her. Before the dawn, Perhaps beyond the city's whir, He would find space Where she could bear her child.... The world, to know his peace on earth, Must be as humble as his place of birth, And look to the chosen Bethlehem, There where the holy symbols are— The stable, the manger, and the star., » Thursday ning, October 3> 1946.] THINK that we are all very much and in Our hom aware of the act th ar livin | together to play cards, notwithstand. ©Y Ought to be taught ing the fact that '4 the Principles of the Go P counseled 56 frequen evil, and It is an evil. ] of the general Relief Society Conference, held in About two weeks ago, a good sister in one of our stakes put a magazine in my hands, and it is a woman's magazine, which goes into the homes of many of our people. In that magazine, there was a very enticing article advising the parents in the home to teach their children, just as soon as they are able to be taught anything, to play cards, a most abominable thing. And I said to the sister, "Well, if I were subscribing to a magazine like that I would tell them to suspend the subscription. I would not have it.. I would not like to have a thing like that in my home." I have written down one or two statements here from President Joseph F. Smith. I have not had time, or I would have taken statements from others of the brethren. Before I read this, I will call attention, however, to this fact: That when the Mormon Battalion was ready to leave Leavenworth on their journey —I am not sure that it was not from Winter Quarters—President Brigham Young, in other advice that he gave to the Battalion, said they should not take cards with them, nor spend their time playing cards, and he called attention to the evils that result from it. OW, I want to read you three paragraphs that I copied on this question. They are all from President Joseph F. Smith: Young people in their recreation should strive to form a love for that which will not be injurious. It is not true that only that recreation can be enjoyed that is detrimental to the body and spirit. We should train ourselves to find pleasure in that which invigorates, not stupifies and destroys the body, that which leads upward and nat down, that which brightens, not dulls and stunts the intellect, that which elevates and exalts the spirit and not that which clogs and depresses it. So shall we please the Lord, enhance our own enjoyment and save ourselves and our children from impending sins, at the root of which, like the evil genius, lurks the spirit of cards and gaming. You will find that in The Improvement Era of June 1911. It is not an uncommon thing for women, young and middle aged, to spend whole afternoons and many of their evenings as well, in playing cards, thus wasting hours and days of precious time in this useless and unprofitable way. Yet those same people when approached declare they have no time to attend either Sunday School or meetings. Their Church duties are neglected for lack of time, yet they spend hours, day after day, at cards. They are thereby encouraged and become possessed of a spirit of indolence, and their minds are filled with a vile drunkenness, hallucination, charm and fascination that take possession of the habitual card player to the exclusion of all spiritual and religious feelings. Such a spirit detracts from all sacred thought or sentiment. These players at length do not quite know whether they are Jew, Gentile or Saint, and they do not care a fig. Cards are the most perfect and common instrumentalities of the gambler that have been devised, and the companionship of cards, like the companionship of most other games, is that of the gambling den and of the saloon, but cards do not stand alone in our enticement to evil. Any game that ultimately leads to questionable society, because it is the chief pleasure of such society, should be excluded from the home where innocent games cannot satisfy the required pleasures of the homie without encouraging card playing (Juvenile Instructor, September 1, 1903). Now, I say, that it has come to my attention so frequently that J thought it would not be amiss to call the sisters' attention to it, and I think you ought to use your influence to stop it, in your wards and in your stakes, by teaching your sis- 806 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1946 HEARKEN TO COUNSEL ters, through the Relief Society and other organizations, the evils of this thing which the Lord has condemned through his servants, the prophets. The Savior said to his disciples one time when he got very much annoyed: "Why call ye me, Lord, Lord, and do not the things which I say?" (Luke 6:46). We raise our hands and say we will support the President of the Church and the Authorities of the Church. Are we doing it? I am speaking not of you sisters here, but I am speaking, when I say that, of the members of the Church. Now I say, these are perilous times. The Devil is raging, and there are more temptations, more avenues for sinning today, among our people, than ever before in the history of the Church. Every good thing that comes for the benefit of man, the Devil takes possession of: the radio, for instance. What a wonderful instrument it is, what a means to educate the people, and yet ninety per cent of the programs that come over the radio should not be heard at all. You can hardly ever turn one on without hearing a tobacco ad, a very alluring one, or something else of an evil nature. In the programs, many of them, that are given for entertainment, things are presented that are, well, shady; the jokes, and all these things are listened to by our young people. How can they grow up in the knowledge of the truth, in the love of the truth, with such things before them? Another thing we ought to keep our children from, and you as mothers should use your influence, is the public dance. I do not know of 807 anything which is a greater evil than the public dance, where, promiscuously, people gather, no questions asked as long as they pay their price, and out of it comes sin. Again, may I, dare I, speak about it, even to you mothers, of modern dress. It is not what the Lord has indicated he would have. He gave to the Church a law which you can find recorded in section 42 of the Doctrine and Covenants, in which he says, "Let all thy garments be plain, and their beauty the beauty of the work of thine own hands," but they are not. I am speaking of the women's dress. I do not think they dress modestly. 'This comes from the world and we partake very largely of these fashions. I suppose perhaps the women think they are pleasing the men. From my understanding, and considering the men [ associate with, they are not pleased, not at all. Men in the world may be, I do not know, but not men in the Church, Latter-day Saints. And why do we have to follow the customs and the fashions of the world? OW, there are so many other things that are evil I cannot take time to mention them, that are placed before our people today, both old and young, and I want to tell you sisters, many among us cannot help, when we see things constantly, from being influenced. All the time we have portrayed before us the advertisements of tobacco and liquor, and all kinds of ads in the magazines, that are unwholesome. In some magazines that many among us like to buy, there are pictures of scantily dressed women. Can we expect our young people to grow up very much with the spirit of the 808. Gospel in them under such conditions? I wonder if we, ourselves, are not more or less affected by it, seeing and hearing these things constantly. Now, the papers are telling us all the time that the condition throughout this nation is terrible in regard to divorce. We find it right here among our own people. There was a time when divorce was much less within the Church than it is today, but in recent years it has been increasing. Why? All of these modem sins tend to it, everything to weaken and destroy the influence of the home. People are losing the love for the home, for the family, today, and that brings upon us these divorce difficulties. And so many of our young people are not looking upon marnage as the Lord would have them look upon it. They do not realize what it means. They are willing to be married outside of the Temple. Why? Because _ their mothers, particularly so their mothers, have failed to teach them the proper kind of marriage. Fathers have failed also, but the mothers are with the children more of the time in the home. And young people born under the covenant are being married outside of the Church, or outside of the Temple, and ofttimes we see in the papers their pictures, and the parents seem to be elated over it, and so they put the pictures in the papers and advertise the fact that the marriage is to be outside the Temple. I should thing they would be ashamed. May I tell you this? In the early days of my life, occasionally my father would hold a meeting with his family, and he would talk to us. And he has told us in those meetings, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1946 time and time again, he would rather take his children to the grave and lay them away, knowing that they were in their purity and entitled to come up in the resurrection to receive the blessings of exaltation in the Kingdom of God, than to have them marry out of the Church or out of the Temple if that would deprive them of these blessings, which it would, unless they should repent. And yet a lot of our people are teaching their sons and their daughters that it does not matter. It comes to my attention that mothers are telling their daughters not to go to the Temple. When they get old then they can go to the Temple, but they do not want to go to the Temple until they get old, until their "charms," whatever that means, have disappeared. Maybe you know what that means. I do not think a woman's charms should ever disappear. I do not think age should make the difference. And so I would like to read to you just one paragraph that I wrote a long time ago, and that is all I will have time to do: Nothing is more pitiful than to see a broken, dismembered family where husband and wife have separated and children know not what to do. Sad are the stories which come to the officials in the Temples and difficult are the problems which they are asked to unravel. Parents, think of your children. Do not let petty troubles, trifling difficulties and misunderstandings come between you. Children have a right to the blessings of the sacred' union, love and happiness which belong to the family. They have dn etermal claim upon their parents, and when these parents, through some foolishness, some whim or needless anger, permit themselves to be separated, the children are the great sufferers. What will the Lord (Continued on page 843) The Place of Relief Society in the Welfare Plan Elder Harold B. Lee Of the Council of the Twelve [Delivered at the officers' meeting of the general Relief Society conference, held in the Assembly Hall, Thursday morning, October 3, 1946.] T is not likely that I shall say anything new to you on this subject of the Relief Society in the Church Welfare Program, and | shall only attempt this morning to lay down a few general, broad principles that might aid you as Relief Society leaders to more clearly see your place and to fill it, in the accomplishment of that which we have been assigned to do under what has been popularly, or otherwise, known as the Church Welfare Plan. I should first like to discuss the relationship that the Relief Society organization has to the Priesthood. The Apostle Paul said to the Corinthians: Nevertheless neither is the man without the woman, neither the woman without the man, in the Lord (I Cor. 11:11). Now, while that had reference to marriage, I would like to paraphrase that to give strength to this point: Neither the brethren of the Priesthood can succeed in the Welfare Program without the sisters of the Relief Society, nor can the Relief Society succeed without the brethten of the Priesthood. President Joseph F. Smith, who has analyzed for us this relationship, has made two very significant expressions on this subject at various times, and I read those statements: I have in mind our auxiliary organizations; What are they? Helps to the standard organizations of the Church. They are not independent. I want to say to the Young Men's and Young Ladies' Mutual Improvement Associations, and to the Relief Society, and to the Primaries, and to the Sunday Schools... And all the rest of the organizations in the Church, that not one of them is independent of the Priesthood of the Son of God. Not any of them can exist a moment in the acceptance of the Lord when they withdraw from the voice and from the counsel of those who hold the Priesthood and preside over them. 'They are subject to the powers and authority of the Church, and they are not independent of them; nor can they exercise any rights in their organizations independently of the Priesthood and of the Church (President Joseph F. Smith, Gospel Doctrine, page 479). And then he said this: We expect to see the day, if we live long enough, and if some of us do not live long enough to see it, there are others who will, when every council of the Priesthood in the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints will understand its duty—will assume its own responsibility, will magnify its calling and fill its place in the Church to the utmost, according to the intelligence and ability possessed by it. When that day shall come, there will not be so much necessity for work that is now being done by the auxiliary organizations because it will be done by the regular quorums of the priesthood (Gospel Doctrine, p. 199, 31d Ed; April C-R_ 1906, page 3). How much time will pass before that will take place none of us know, but until that time comes, we Page 809 must invite and expect the great body of sisters, represented in this leadership here this morning, and the other auxiliary organizations, to give assistance to the Pnesthood as they are now expected to do. There will be said to you in every stake welfare meeting where our General Committee members assemble with you, there will be said in the General Welfare meeting which will be held Saturday morning in the Tabernacle, beginning at eight o'clock, some of the phases of the essential parts of the Welfare Program that I shall discuss with you here this morning for a few moments. As we see it, after ten and a half years of intensive activity, there are three essentials to an effective program in every stake of the Church if the welfare objectives are to be realized. The first essential is that there must be welfare projects conducted and developed on a permanent basis to produce the commodities adjudged necessary to take care of those who may have to be assisted. AY I be specific as to what we mean by that kind of a project. For that to be realized, our wheat must be produced on land owned and operated by a ward or Priesthood quorum or by the stake. Our beef must be procured from cattle which we pasture, and feed, and slaughter in the Welfare Program. Our milk must be obtained from cows which we own and which are fed with hav and grain which we produce, from cows which are sheltered in sheds and barns, built from lumber which we obtain in the Welfare Program, and milked by brethren who are unemployed and need assistance. And the milk that comes from those cows must be processed in milk plants and in dairies and in condenseries and churns in order to produce the milk and the cheese and the butter that we need to take care of our people. Our shoes must come from hides that we procure from the cattle that we slaughter to provide our meat. And the hides must be tanned in our own tanneries, and manufactured in our own plants which employ people who otherwise would be unemployed, or who must be trained in order to take their place in private industry. I am hoping for the day to come when we can take the raw cotton and the raw wool which we now obtain as an assignment in the Welfare Program and have that raw material spun into yarns, and that yarn woven into cloth, and then have our sisters direct the processing of that cloth we thus produce, into bedding, clothing, mattresses, and the other things we need in the Welfare Program. That is what we mean by permanent welfare projects, and until we move forward in that program to as near the hundred per cent production of our needs in the Welfare Program, we are not striking a maximum efficiency. President Wilford Woodruft made a significant statement, about fifty years ago, in an address that he delivered at the Weber Stake conference, and this is what he said: So far as temporal matters are. Concerned we have got to go to work and provide for ourselves. The day will come when—as we have been told—we shall all see the necessity of making our own shoes and clothing and raising our own' food, 810 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1946 RELIEF SOCIETY IN THE WELFARE PLAN and uniting together to carty out the purposes of the Lord. We will be preserved in the mountains of Israel in the day of God's judgment. I, therefore, say to you, my brethren and sisters, prepare for that which is to come ( Weber Stake Conference, Oct. 8, 1894; MS. 56:643-4)- That warning and that prophecy ought not to fall on deaf ears. NOW: where is the place of the Relief Society in the accomplishment of this essential objective? Years ago when the Welfare Program was just getting underway, Sutveys were made throughout the Church of the homes where difficulty and want and distress were to be found. We found a very statfling situation. In the great majority of those homes—and | would suppose ninety to ninety-five per cent, or even more—the mothers in the homes of most of those families did not know how to bake their own bread; they did not know how to remodel or remake their clothes; they did not know how to preserve fruits and _ vegetables, and their husbands were unskilled laborers. I want you to look at that picture, you sisters, and then ask yourselves ¢ that kind of a home is prepared to withstand the shock of unemployment and want and distress. We discovered in_ this Welfare Program that we had lost many of those pioneer skills that made for independence and thrift and industry. Thank the Lord, through the guidance of wise men, we arte bringing back some of those old skills; we are learning how to make rugs, and, as I go throughout the Church, I find that after you have made your, shall I say, arduous assignment of rugs, that you have agonized about in many cases, I find that you are find- 811 ing the opportunity and the ma terjals to make a few of those extra lovely rugs to grace your own homes. It is a splendid thing, as I see, that homemade rugs that you have learned how to make yourselves in the Welfare Program, are finding 4 place in out homes. Breadmaking, dressmaking, food preservation—there was never a time in our lives when there was as fine 4 training program for the mothers of this Church as there is at the present time '1 those essential and fundamental skills, and may I now impress this one thought: We are failing in this Welfare Program if and when we have mothers of homes receiving assistance who are ablebodied and can do so, when they are not brought into the production assignments, in sewing and_breadmaking and tug weaving. You Sisters must see to it that all able bodied persons, whose home conditions permit them to do so, brought in to help to be producers in that program from which they receive sustenance. We fail in that, and we fail in one of the prime re quirements of the Welfare Program. Even though they may not be able to come to your centers, even though it may require someone being sent into their homes to teach them if they cannot come to a center, you presidents should see to it that someone teaches them, and they have work to do in their own homes where they may have to be surrounded by their own children. There is another essential in this program before we can move forward, and that is that there must be a storehouse, adequately stocked with a full supply of welfare-produced commodities, and within the reach of every bishop, and of course his Relief Society president, who is his nght-hand assistant in this work. Now, where do you fit into that Program? As I go throughout the Church, I frequently ask how many presidents have seen the Food Distribution Guide, and I am startled ofttimes to find that not even the stake Relief Society president has ever seen a Food Distribution Guide. You cannot be of very effective assistance in this distribution program unless you know two things: One is that you know what foods are in the storehouse, available for distribution; and the second, that you have some comprehension of the estimated amount families of average size will require. Possession and understanding and use of that Food Distribution Guide will help to answer both questions. Without it, you are in the dark: with it, you become effective tools in the Welfare Program. Now, in order for you to give that kind of assistance, there is another thing you must know and_ understand. What are the resources that the Church has, or you might call them assets, in order to solve an individual welfare problem? How do you start to solve it? Suppose I should ask you this question at this time. Suppose that tonight a telephone call comes to the father of a family where he is at work, bringing him the distressing word that his little son has been hit with an automobile and has been rushed to the hospital, critically injured. This family is making only a very low income, just barely enough to keep the family together with food and the essentials. Now there faces the family immediately, a doctor bill, a hospital bill—how in the world are you going to handle it? I fear if I should ask you that question and have you answer it here, most of you would say: "Well, we will call on the fast offering funds." And that is not the way the Welfare Program begins, and that is where we make our error. In the first place, we start out with the individual himself. We do not move from that point until we have helped the individual to do all he can to help his own problem. Now, sentiment and our emotional sympathy might push us to other conclusions, but that is the first, and then we reach out to the immediate relatives of that family. We are losing the family solidarity, we are losing the strength that comes from family unity, when we fail to give opportunity and to help to direct a way by which immediate relatives of that family, so distressed, can come to the aid of their own. HEN, the next point we move to is to call on the storehouse for the immediate necessities. In a home like that I have just described, I want you to see the advantage of giving to that family the clothing, the food, bedding, fuel that they need for a couple of months in order to relieve the cash that they otherwise would spend to pay for that emergency hospital bill, rather than merely taking fast offerings and passing it out to them in money. In the instance of giving commoditics from the storehouse, you are merely giving that family a drawing account on the commodities which they themselves have helped to produce, or that have been exchanged for that which they 812 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1946 RELIEF SOCIETY IN THE WELFARE PLAN helped to produce. You will find that which we receive as compensation in that indirect way for work done, will uplift and preserve the pnde and help that individual to be more independent than if we start with this other and easiest course, without following the Welfare way. Now, beyond what you can do from the storehouse, then the next thing, of course, is to recommend to the bishop the use of the fast offering fund, which, he has been schooled, is to be used first from that which he provides from his own ef. Forts and the efforts of his leaders. To that end, we must always put the gathering of fast offerings and the increasing of the fast offerings, and teaching the law of fasting, as one ot the foremost parts of the Welfare Plan. In some places we have got away from that, and especially in centers where they have not many people in need. But keep in mind the law of the fast, and the increasing of fast offerings to a point where everybody is fasting from two meals and paying the full equivalent cost of those two meals as a contribution. That is one of the prime things to provide the substance to meet that. In this teaching, the Relief Society has a responsibility. Now then, following from that, we come to the rehabilitation aspects of our problems. There the Relief Society, and there the Priesthood quorums play their major part. Now what is the Relief Society's part in a rehabilitation program? Well, the first thing you do, as you visit the home of a distressed family, is to do as the bishop requires, make an analysis of the conditions of the home. I am going to talk about that in a few moments to indicate 813 why I think the Lord has given us a marvelous program in sending sisters of your attainments into such homes. OU go there to make the analysis, find out conditions, and to make an order on the storehouse, if that be necessary, and report back to your bishop the needs of the family for his approval and withdrawal from the storehouse, or from funds that he has in his Possession, if that be necessary. The second thing you do is to make certain that the home management problems of that home are studied, and that there be set in motion such direction that will help to cure the evils that are there. You must stand ready to meet home emergencies, sickness, death, and other conditions of that kind, that call upon a sisterly sympathy that ought to be expressed by the Relief Society Then, too, you must be always morale builders in this part of the program. Yours must be the uplifting hand, yours the one to steady the family situation through the emergency. As I think about this part of the program, I realize how keenly you folks need, and how you desire, a close relationship with your brethten in the Priesthood, and that brings me to the third essential before this Program can succeed. | know sometimes when | mention this, now, you feel yourselves quite helpless, but I am going to urge you to be a little more patient, a little more energetic in urging. The third is that there must be a regular weekly meeting of the Ward Welfare Committee, and there must be a monthly meeting of the Stake Welfare Committee which supervises the work of the ward. We cannot go forward without that essential meeting together. Now, sisters, I think you, in your kindly way—and keep in mind that these men who preside in the ward as bishops and Priesthood leaders are husbands and fathers; you are their wives and you have a lot of training in how to get a man into action—you can now use those tactics where necessary, kindly, but effectively, in seeing that the weekly Ward Welfare Committee meeting is held. I would like to think this: A wife in a home, a woman, is expected to be not just a scrub woman and a housekeeper, but she is expected to be an intelligent and inspired participant in the family partnership. That is just where we think the place of the Relief Society is in the Welfare Program. We do not expect that the Relief Society shall merely be scrub women and housekeepers. We expect that they shall be invited in as intelligent participants in the planning of the Welfare partnership, and without that invitation and without that opportunity, we are not going to get the solidarity that we otherwise could expect. O may we ask you sisters to redouble your efforts to see that that meeting is held. Once a month is not often enough. A meeting that is only held when it is thought it is necessary is never held. We know that. That is a pure subterfuge. This meeting, to be effective, must be held regularly and that regularity must be once a week, and the only places where the Welfare Program is moving forward as it should is in those wards where they are holding the weekly Welfare Committee meeting, properly supervised by an active Stake Welfare Committee. Now, I should like to call your attention to another thing that the Lord has said by revelation, that describes his plan. In the 104th Section of the Doctrine and Covenants, I think the 14th verse, the Lord says this. And in these few words, if we understand them as I am sure the Lord wants us to understand them, we have as clearly defined in as few words the Welfare Program as anything I know. Now listen to what the Lord says: I, the Lord, stretched out the heavens, and built the earth, my very handiwork; and all things therein are mine. And it is my purpose to provide for my saints. Now, you listen to that when somebody tells you that we pay taxes and we ought to turn our people onto public relief. Did you hear what the Lord said? It is my purpose to provide for my saints, for all things are mine... But it must needs be done in mine own way. Not the Government's way, not some crackpot philosopher's way, but it is to be done in the Lord's way: And behold this is the way that I, the Lord, have decreed to provide for my saints. Now, get the significance of this one statement: That the poor shall be exalted, in that the rich are made low. Now, that is the plan. I am going to speak of that for just a moment. Then the Lord goes on to say: For the earth is full, and there is enough and to spare; yea, I prepared all things, and have given unto the children of men to be agents unto themselves. Therefore, 814 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1946 RELIEF SOCIETY IN THE WELFARE PLAN if any man shall take of the abundance which I have made, and impart not his portion, according to the law of my gospel, unto the poor and the needy, he shall, with the wicked, lift up his eyes in hell, being in torment. 'There are your fast offerings, there is your tithing. Now, what does he mean by this phrase? His way is, "that the poor shall be exalted, in that the rich are made low" (Doc. And Cov. 104:14-18). "Exalt," in the. Language of the dictionary, and the definition that I am sure the Lord is trying to convey means: ""To lift up with pride and joy to success." That is how we should lift the poor up, "with pride and joy to success," and how are we to do it? By the rich being made low. Now, do not mistake that word "rich." That does not always mean aman who has a lot of money. That man may be poor in money,' but he may be rich in skill. He may be rich in judgment. He may be rich in good example. He may be rich in splendid optimism, and in a lot of other qualities that are necessary. And when individual Priesthood quorum members unite themselves together, we usually find all those rare qualities necessary to lift up the needy and distressed with pride and joy to success in the accomplishment. There could not be a more perfect working of the Lord's plan than that. Now, keep in mind this further thought, that the Lord has told us time and again that the objective of all his work is spiritual. Do you remember what he said in the 29th section of the Doctrine and Covenants? Wherefore, verily I say unto you that all things unto me are spiritual, and not 815 at any time have I given unto you a law which was temporal; neither any man, nor the children of men; neither Adam, your father, whom I created (Doc. And Cov. 29:34). Can you see that in your handling of these affairs? Do you let everything you do be with an eye single to the glory of that individual, the ultimate triumph of his spiritual over his physical? The whole purpose of the Lord in life is to so help us and direct us that at the end of our lives we are prepared for a celestial inheritance. Is not that it? Can you give every basket of food you give, can you give every service that you render with that great objective in mind? Is this the way to do it in order to help my brother or my sister to better attain and lay hold upon his celestial inheritance? That is the objective that the Lord sets. OW, if that be the objective, cannot you see how important it is that you, as the presidents of the Relief Society make such an approach that will determine in large part whether or not we succeed or whether or not we fail? Well, as I thought about this subject and wormied about it in the last few weeks, realizing what a fearsome task it was to stand here and talk to you, this many sisters, I got to thinking about this thing called sympathy, and I went into the psychology books and I found a psychologist dividing sympathy into three categories. First, he said, there is the kind of sympathy that is a sort of self-pity. We go with this feeling, "My, I feel sorry for you,' which is another way of saying, "If I were in your place, I do not think I would be able to go through it." And I thought back on my _ experience and I remembered meeting a man who was dying with cancer. The doctor had told him that he could not live for another month. My companion and I walked into his sick room, and before we had a chance to say anything, he said: "Do you know, brethren, I am going to get a big club and stand it right here by my bed?" We told him that that was a rather interesting introduction to friends, and asked: "What are you going to use that club for?" He replied: "I am going to hit the next man over the head who says to me, 'I feel sorry for you.'" Now, is that the kind of sympathy that uplifts? I fear not. 66" RHERE is another kind of sympathy," the psychologist said, "that follows convention rather than tells the truth and that fails in making people face the facts by telling them the truth." Then he, to illustrate that, told about a rich woman who was lying there with all her fineries, dressed in a beautiful gown, lying there with a mysterious ailment that no one could diagnose, and one of her friends came to her on this occasion and she said: "O I wish I were with Jesus." The visitor said to her: "You have no right to be with him. Your place is to get up from this bed and take care of your husband and your children as you ought to." Oh, she did not like it, but that was the truth, and stirred by that "sympathy," that kind of sympathy, she got up from her bed and her mysterious ailment began to cure itself. I saw that in my own office over here in the distant past, and I think I can tell it without anyone knowing of whom I speak. We had someone who was very much in distress, so she thought, and needed a sum of money, rather a large sum, and she came, thinking that it might be borrowed from the Welfare Program. We had discussed the whole question. We felt it was not the proper way to apply these sacred funds that are entrusted to the Welfare Committee by the First Presidency, and so we said, "No," and I was the one who had to say "No." I learned to say "No" in more languages than I had ever known before, over there. And she became angry at first and then she cried— and that is always a weapon a woman uses on a man—but fortunately, I guess, for the Church, I could not be the only one affected, and she could not cry before all who had said "No," and, finally, she began to plead, and then she began to argue. Well, I went through a distressing hour but there sat at my side a very wise man and, finally, when she paused, he said to her: "May I tell you a story?" And he told her the story of Joseph sold into Egypt, and he said: "You remember the eleven brothers that were up there toasting their shins in Canaan! They could hear the lowing of the cattle out in the farmyard. 'There were pans of milk in the pantry and they had all they wanted to eat, and it was warm inside. Their brother was down in a dungeon in jail in Egypt, but despite all their comfort, by comparison, they were very poor indeed, because Joseph in the dungeon could walk and talk with God." 816 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1946 RELIEF SOCIETY IN THE WELFARE PLAN I think I have never seen a woman change so. She looked at him fora few moments as the full import of that great lesson came upon her, and she brightened her tears and said: "I know what you mean. I, too, have a way." The truth, sometimes, is the most difficult kind of sympathy to give, but ofttimes it is the most effective. Never let your sympathy be merely the conventional kind, just because you think you say what they would like to have you say, when you know that what your sympathy is saying is not the truth. But this last, and this valued kind of sympathy, is the kind that I want you to exercise, if you would be helpful to this Program, and that is the sympathy that is not merely trying to see another one's problems through your eyes, but it is the sympathy that tries to see their trouble through their eyes. It is the kind of sympathy that tries to put oneself in the place of the sufferer. I want you to think about that for a moment. I listened to one of our leaders tell me about how he approached the knotty problems that came in their council meetings, and he said: "When it gets to a point where I do not know which way to turn and what to answer, I sit for a few moments and reflect if the Master were here in our place—and this is his work—how would the Master set about it. What would be his answer to this problem? And then I begin to see how kindly he approached his tasks. I begin to see how he got into the individual hearts of his people." When I heard our leader describing his approach I thought of the 817 picture that I had seen of Jesus sitting on the seashore, teaching old Zebedee and his two sons, James and John—have you seen the beautiful painting? Old Zebedee, for fifty or more years, has only thought in one groove. He sits there as much as to say: "You try to teach me anything different than I have been thinking." James and John, his younger sons, seem to be listening more intently, but here sits the Master. He has placed his hand kindly on the forearm of this old grizzled veteran, Zebedee. The Master does not seem to be in a hurry. He has no trains to catch nor any appointments to keep. He looks like he can sit there all day and all next week, and all next month if it were necessary. It looks, from the expression on his face, that he is willing to illustrate, to put it anew, to repeat it, if necessary, in order to make it sink in. WELL that is the way. He could teach because he was seeing Zebedee's life through Zebedee's own eyes. That is why he was the perfect teacher. He was not sitting back and trying to make Zebedee see through his eyes. He was trying, as the perfect teacher, to help the learner through his own thinking. I want you, again, to see another picture where Jesus has set us a great example. He is hanged upon the cross. Cruel spikes have been driven into his hands and into his feet. A spear has been thrust in his side to hasten his death. Cruel thorns have been mashed down upon his brow. The blood is now trickling down in his eves and over his cheeks. (Continued on page 841 ) Bruce Redd McConkie Sustained a Member of First Council of Seventy Counselor Marianne C. Sharp THE BRUCE R. McCONKIE FAMILY Elder Bruce R. McConkie, new member of the First Council of Seventy, with his wife, Amelia Smith McConkie, and their children: Vivian, age six; Stanford Smith, age three; Mary Ethel, age five months; Joseph Fielding, age five. N October 6, 1946, Bruce Redd McConkie was_ sustained as a member of the First Council of Seventy, filling the vacancy caused by the death, last May, of Elder John H. Taylor. This action brings to the Council a man thirty-one years of age, one in the full vigor and power of mind and body, called to become one of the "traveling ministers unto the GenPage 818 tiles first and also unto the Jews." Elder McConkie comes to this high calling richly endowed by native ability, parental training, and self-improvement. He was reared in a house of faith where his parents, Oscar W. McConkie and Vivian Redd McConkie, taught the gospel by precept and also by daily example. Asa young boy, Bruce exhibited those traits of character that a BRUCE REDD McCONKIE Latter-day Saint teacher would wish in a student. He was a thoughtful, obedient lad of a sober disposition, faithful and true, courteous in all his actions, but ever ready to defend the truth. Even as a child, he possessed an unusual knowledge of the scriptures, and, as he has grown to full maturity, his early promise has been realized, until today he is of such a stature that the Lord, through his servants, has chosen him as one to help carry on his great work in these latter days. Brother McConkie has had thorough training and outstanding experience in his chosen profession —the law. He spent four years in the army engaged in security and intelligence work and, during those years, he was promoted from a first lieutenant to a lieutenant colonel. He comes well trained to his new calling, for he has been serving as senior president of the 340th Quorum of Seventy in Monument Park Ward of Bonneville Stake. He will receive full support in his 819 devoted wife, Amelia Smith McConkie, daughter of Elder Joseph Fielding Smith of the Quorum of the Twelve and the late Ethel Reynolds Smith. Sister McConkie's home training has been such as to give her an understanding and appreciation of the added responsibilities which, as the wife of a General Authority, will be hers in rearing her children during the times when her husband will be absent from home on his Church duties. Relief Society women will feel particularly well acquainted with the McConkie family since the mothers of both Brother and Sister McConkie served, for many years, as faithful and capable members of the Relief Society General Board. Elder McConkie assumes his new duties with a keen sense of the honor and responsibility which have come to him so early in life, and he can be relied upon to give to the Lord's work full measure, running over, of his great faith, devotion, new Church assignment from his pa CHRISTMAS-EVE MAGIC Mary J]. Morris After the lights and the balls of red and blue Are nested in silver at the Christmas tree, My heart again perfects a rendezvous That makes this magic time... Eternity. (The Christmas silhouettes upon the snow; The childish whisper; the feet upon the stairs; The smell of spices; the holly berries' glow; Accentuate a world released from cares. ) Above it all a star is standing by Until the gleams from proteges are found, And then it leads the way across the sky To shine once more on pure and holy ground. How old and yet how new this magic light Encircling hearts of youth and age tonight! Loyalty, and capabilities. Marvin QO. Ashton Elder Bryant S. Hinckley BISHOP MARVIN O. ASHTON On October 9, 1946, all that was mortal of Bishop Marvin O. Ashton was laid to rest in the Sunset Lawn Cemetery, Salt Lake City, Utah, attended by a vast concourse of people eager to pay tribute to the man they loved. He lived abundantly, generously, and finished superbly. In the afternoon of the last day of his life, he preached a great sermon before the general conference of the Church; and while the words scarcely ceased Page 820 A GREAT Commoner has gone. Echoing in the hearts of those who listened, he passed away. Death came in his sleep early the following morning. Three score and three years make up the span of his mortal days. His way of doing things was different, original, individualistic. Marvin Ashton was interested in widows, orphans, poor people, and boys. No better example of Christian living can be found than the record of his deeds. "He went about doing good." 'The philosophy of his life was made up of common sense, human kindness, generosity, and humor. He was a rare type of man— one of the common people grown great, indeed a great commoner. There are few such men. You rarely meet them, and when you do, you never forget them. People in need of help went to Bishop Ashton and he never failed them. He was a good citizen, a devoted husband, a great father, a delightful companion, a friend of youth, and a leader whom the people loved to follow. The entire Church and the community have sustained an irreparable loss in his passing. He has left behind a sweet and shining memory and sons and daughters worthy of the name they bear. Chiefest among the mourners is the wonderful woman who has walked by his side for forty years, the mother of his children. May the sweet influence that emanates from above comfort and solace her heart and the hearts of all who mourn. Christmas and the True Christian Spirit Elder T. Edgar Lyon HE festive season known as Christmas is more universally celebrated by Christians than any other seasonal _ tradition. Although it is usually thought of as the birthday of the Savior, both historical evidence and modern revelation indicate that Jesus of Nazareth was born in the springtime. In the early centuries, the birth of the Savior was celebrated in various places in January, March, April, and May. Apparently, the celebration of Christ's birth was established on December 25th because of pagan influence. Prior to the Christian era, this day and others, a few days before and after it, had been celebrated by pagan peoples as the feast of the winter solstice or the birthday of Mithras, one of the most popular pagan deities. It appears that Christian leaders finally decided, after attempting to suppress these pagan feasts, without success, to designate December 25th as the birthday of Christ. Many ancient pagan customs, such as the use of holly and mistletoe, the yule log, lighted trees, spiced punches, and fruitcake, were kept as part of the celebration, because they were such powerful social traditions, and the new symbolism gave to them Christian meanings. In America, the celebration of Christmas became further complicated and farther removed from the real spirit of Christianity through the addition of the mystical figure of Saint Nicholas, or Santa Claus, as he has come to be popularly designated. Until less than three centuries ago, there was no relation between Saint Nicholas and Christmas. But, when the Netherlands acquired a colonial foothold in the New World, and sent their colonists to New Amsterdam and the Hudson Valley, these sturdy Dutchmen brought with them the tradition of St. Nicholas. According to their tradition, St. Nicholas was a bishop of Myra (a | city in Asia Minor) who served his flock of Christians early in the fourth century. He had been a man of wealth, and, upon becoming a Christian bishop, had used his means to aid the unfortunate and to make children happy, recalling the saying of Jesus, "of such is the kingdom of heaven." In doing this, he had been attempting to follow the teachings of Jesus and the early Christian leaders, who had stressed service to their fellow men as the greatest manifestation of the love of God that could come into the human soul. In the true Christian spirit of neither seeking nor allowing public acclaim for deeds of charity and love, he swore all his benefactors to secrecy. Following his death, however, many of the people whom he had aided told of his munificence, and his fame spread Page 821 far and wide into Europe, the Near East, and parts of Asia. Popular tradition created of him a supernatural figure who went about once a year, distributing gifts. In America, "St. Nicholas" became corrupted by the Dutch children into "Sinter Klaas," which was soon shortened into "Santa Claus." When the British assumed possession of the colonies of the Netherlands, they attempted to suppress the annual visits of the Saint, because of his Catholic background. The Dutch settlers, however, unwilling to rob their children of the annual festival which meant so much to them, changed the time of the traditional visit of St. Nicholas to coincide with Christmas, and his clothing was changed from the robe of a Catholic bishop to that of a resident of a northern land. In this manner, Santa Claus, as we know the tradition, is a creation that occurred on American soil, having been adapted from an old-world background. ODAY, many young people in America make no distinction between the celebration of Christmas, and the annual visit of Santa Claus. Because of the fact that tangible toys and gifts are found in the wake of his nocturnal visits, Santa Claus, the intruder, is often in their thoughts more than Jesus, whose birthday is being commemorated. Due to the great commercial opportunities which the Santa Claus celebration has created, we feel certain that he is here to stay. We cannot oust the usurper. But there are things that individuals and families within the Church can do to counteract some of the commercial elements of this part of Christmas, and substitute for it a truer Christian spirit that will survive throughout life. Latter-day Saint parents are often heard to complain: "There was not so much commercialism about Christmas when I was young as there is today." This lament is only relatively true. There was a great deal of commercialism a half century or more ago, but two factors made it seem less. One was the fact that people had little money to spend compared to what is available today, and so there was not the production of the vast amount of Christmas goods that we have today. It is true that children received less, but, in proportion to the available money, it was probably about as great as present expenditures. The second factor in the growth of the commercialization of Christmas has been the development of more effective advertising. Formerly a paper was limited in its size because it was hand set and hand printed. Yet a perusal of daily papers of fifty or seventy-five years ago indicates that a good portion of their limited advertising space was occupied with appeals to purchase Chnstmas gifts and the necessary luxuries for sumptuous Christmas dinners. 'Today, with mechanical typesetters and automatic speed presses, daily papers can be made large enough to carry both advertising and news. Alluring advertisements, impossible before the advent of photoengraving, now urge us to buy gifts for Christmas. The radio carries the appeal into our homes, and lighted window displays, decorated streets, and Christmas carols 822 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1946 broadcasted from Powerful public address system, - create an atmosphere that makes gift buying inevitable. Our increased standard of living and the powerful commercial appeals of today are factors which threaten Latter-day Saints with their greatest challenge to enhance the true significance of Christ's birth as a mortal. We could not change these habits and Practices of the world even if we desired. Although We are aware that December 2 5th is not the true birthday of Jesus, we hardly care to ignore the traditional season when others celebrate the event. What, then, can we do to make Christmas a Christ-centered event and cultivate the spirit of giying which he exemplified, in the midst of a Santa Claus-minded world? OME of the fondest memories of childhood that an adult carries into mature life are the remembrances of Christmas at home and in church. We recall such things as the tension of mystery that was about the house before Christmas, the odors of the holiday foods, the plans for special parties, the anticipation of the surprises that awaited on Christmas morning, and the abundance of wonderful gifts that were received; the beautiful music of the Christmas carols, the cheerfulness of the Christmas tree, with its colored lights; the Preparation of baskets of food or gifts for the less fortunate in the neighborhood; the special Sunday School programs and the singing of the little children; a special Christmas sermon at sacrament meeting, and Prayers of gratitude for the gift of the Christ Child. These are the memories that live on and on in the minds of men and women long after Christmas has ceased to mean Santa Claus and the hurry and worry of shopping. If Christmas is to Temain an imPfessive event in the lives of our children with its Proper religious significance, parents should carry on some of the practices which were a part of their own youthful obseryances of Christmas. The first thing that they should do js to make up their minds that they will endeavor to live the Principles of the Christian life in the home at all times. Here is an Opportunity to take stock of oneself and to notice the things in one's conduct that are not in accordance with the teachings of Jesus, such as the loss of self-control, Sarcastic comments to other members of the family, unkind deeds, harsh words, dishonest acts, unwillingness to forgive others, deception and hypocrisy, Christmas time offers the Opportunity of T€-examining our souls to see how far we have departed from Christian forms of living. Christmas also presents us with an opportunity of having the family work together as a unit in unselfish service to others, Not only must we learn the theory of Christian service and brotherly love, but we need a laboratory in which to let the theory function, that the ideal of service CHRISTMAS AND THE TRUE CHRISTIAN SPIRIT 823 ment in Christian living. Some project should be selected by the family—one of unselfish giving to less fortunate or to lonely people. One should then see to it that each member of the family is given a responsibility that will require time and sacrifices. Even little tots can be taught unselfish service by such activities. 'The parents should not provide everything, but should see to it that each member of the family supplies something by contributing a good toy, a nearly new doll, or some of his Christmas money. No better method of teaching unselfishness and sympathy for others can be found than such a project. Those who have tried such activities on a family basis bear testimony to its great value and wholesome effect on the outlook of their children. United activities of this type are the finest manifestation of Christian teaching. Throughout this season of the year, great stress should be placed on the spiritual aspect of Christmas. Plans should be made to have the family group read together the inspiring story of the nativity as found in Luke 2:1-20. For very small children, perhaps, a first reading from a Bible storybook would be helpful. In addition, the family could make much of carol singing at such a time. Libraries have many _ publications containing the story of the composing of famous Christmas carols. Such information makes the singing of a carol more meaningful. The family could plan a home Christmas service, with carols sung, played by instrument, or heard from records. Each child could participate with the story of a carol, and a Bible reading. Here, it is interesting to note that the timeless words and music of our beautiful carols all deal with the advent of Jesus and the joy that the world has found in this event. Youth is a time when ideals are most readily fixed in the mind, an age of spontaneous enthusiasm for things new, a period of simple religious faith and confidence, the most receptive time for teaching those values that should _ last throughout life, and the period of greatest habit formation. Parents who utilize the teaching possibilities of the Christmas season will accomplish four things: They will impress their children with the needs and values of the true Christian way of life; they will encourage in them habits of unselfish service which will last throughout life; they will instill in their children the spiritual enjoyment of participating in_ religious services; and last, but by no means least, they will give to their children a rich treasure of memories of true Christmas joy to carry throughout their lives. THE GRANDMOTHER Theoda Hart Stackhouse She is so frail and old, And yet content To feel each passing day Is still well spent She has had much of dreams— So few succeeded; Now all she asks of life Is to be needed. 824 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1946 Christmas on the Mantel Elizabeth Williamson ET'S make this Christmas a gala one, full of good cheer and yuletide spirit. It is the fitting time to make our homes as attractive and Magic changes festive as possible. Are easily achieved by little touches here and there. The fireplace is the focal point of the room. We can make it ornamental and gay for the holiday season. Greens tied together and festooned over the mantel. Colored Christmas tree ornaments at the center and the sides. Or red candles, lend a graceful air. For bright accents, tie Candelabra, with white Page 825 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1946 Holly is always symbolical of Christmas. Bank it along the mantel with bright candles. Candles of different lengths are most effective, and they are beautiful in a group of three. Place a piece of celotex or a square of cork or heavy cardboard over the mantel. Frame it with greens, cedar, pine, fir, or holly. Attach your Christmas cards with thumb tacks to the square. This is very gay. Perhaps you have a lovely old copper tray or a bright plate. Either of these used as a background for a single candle, with a few sprigs of pine, will make a very effective arrangement. CHRISTMAS ON THE MANTEL Decorate your mantel with symbolic Christmas figurines: the Wise Men from the East, bringing gifts to the Child in the cradle. Candles and pine boughs form the background. If your fireplace is a modern one, without a mantel, pin a large bow of bright red tarlatan or silk above the grate. Attach pine cones, holly, and little bells to the bow. If you have a pet antique, such as an old clock, dress it up with greens and see how distinctive it becomes, telling the time for the holidays. Sixty Years Ago Excerpts from the Woman's Exponent, December 1, and December 15, 1886 "For THE RIGHTS OF. THE Women oF ZION; AND THE RiGHTs OF THE Women OF ALL Nations" ESSAY ON CHRISTMAS: Christmas time, of all the year, is a time of rejoicing for all Christian sects. It is a time of festivity and merrymaking, and I sometimes think that in our mirth and pleasure we are apt to forget the real and most worthy cause of joy and rejoicing—the birth of our Savior, the babe in Bethlehem, the meek and lowly Jesus, who came to this earth in the meridian of time, as it had been ordained in the courts above, before the creation of this world.... Let us try to remember the obligations we are under, that when we have finished our work on earth it may be said of us: "Well done, good and faithful servant, enter into the joy of Thy Lord." —M. M. CHRISTMAS NIGHT In all this boasted land of happy homes, How many circles are complete tonight? How many round their festive firesides come Without a vacancy OF sorrow's blight? - But there will come a Christmas holiday— The glorious natal day of heaven's Son, When all the world combined will stay To give their praise to that holy One. Then every nation, people, kindred, tongue, With one accord will bow the pliant knee; And glorious praise and anthems will be sung, Whilst Gods and angels shout, "Oh, Zion's free!" _E. R. Shipp HONOR TO \WHOM HONOR IS DUE: At Pima, Arizona, a pleasant and enjoyable surprise was given to Stake President of Relief Society, Wilmirth East, on \Vednesday, November 17th, it being her sixty-second birthday.... About 25° of the brethren and sisters were present, among whom was President Layton, who spoke in high terms of praise of the way in which Sister East had performed her labors... Said she was truly a mother in Israel; always on hand to minister to the sick and needy, and give words of encouragement to those who were called to mourn, or to those who were raclined to stray from the path of duty..-- Sister East thanked all for the honor they had shown her, and hoped with tlie help of God to be always worthy of their love and esteem..- + EDITORIAL NOTES: Christmas preparations are being made by the merchants and shopkeepers, and the great display of holiday goods gives the city a decidedly cheerful and business like appearance. Christmas trees and holly are for sale in various parts of the town.... The large window in the Z. C. M. I. Makes a fine show in the grocery department, and Savage's Art Bazaar makes an elegant and artistic showing of books, pictures and fancy goods. - - - Dwyer has a very elaborate assortment of toys. - Pembroke has a fine variety, also, of this style of goods...-- Page 828 Woman's Sphere INCE 1939, arrests of girls under | eighteen in the United States have 'ticrédsed 198 per cént!: situation, and others equally shocking, among juveniles, represent a tragedy that is blighting the very core of tomorrow's world. Many organizations: axé turning their most thoughtful, and we hope prayerful, attention to this matter. Tom Clark, Attorney 'General of the United States, acting for the Department of Justice, called a national conference on juvenile delinquency for November, in Washington, D. C., Mrs. 'Tirzah Anderson of the National Board of the Young Women's Christian Association being one of the principal participants. An event which, it is said, those who were present w ill never forget was the Youth Forum of the National Convention of the General Federation of Women's Clubs, at which Mrs. Dorothy Gordon. Of the New York Times was moderator, and students from high schools' in New York, New Jersey, and Chicago discussed juvenile delinquency feeling: ly and frankly. HE Gunton Federation of Wé- men's Clubs now numbers almost 3,000,000 members in America. At its recent national convention in Chicago, one very energetic delegate was a woman ninety-two years old. Mrs. Lucy J. Dickinson, This" Kk A national president, was awarded the honorary degree of doctor of laws last June at the University of New Hampshire. Her special interests are the American home and youth conservation. N response to a request from Japan for'an American woman tutor for the crown prince, the State Department has announced the appointment of Mrs. Elizabeth Gray Vining, of Philadelphia, to that unusual position. Mrs. Vining is a graduate of Bryn Mawr and author of several books for children. ORTY of Mrs. Efelen Kimball Orgill's poems are now published in a book, Songs of Courage," which, savs one commentator, "will mist the eye and touch the heart." The author, a granddaughter of Heber C. Kimball, is well known for her published work in Utah, Canada, and California. N Stories From the West, a volume of the Children of the U. S. A. Series, Mrs: Florence Ivins Hyde has a story, "The Camp at the Canvon," Mrs. Hyde, a daughter of the late President Anthony W. Ivins, was particularly honored in that, without solicitation on her part, she was invited by the publishers, SilverBurdette, to contribute to their series a story representative of Utah. Page 829 O-> EDITORIAL ~~O VOL. 33 DECEMBER 1946 NO. 12 A Sie Shat Binds "And they came with haste and found Mary and Joseph and the babe lying in a manger" (Luke 2:16). THs family scene of father, mother, and child greeted the shepherds early on the morning of the first Christmas day. How appropriate that the succeeding Christmas celebrations down through the years have centered about the family. Most of the beloved traditions surrounding this holiday are directly concerned with the family observance of this day. Many people have been heard to say, "After all, Christmas is just for the children." But Christmas is also for the parents. Yuletide brings parents an opportunity to establish family traditions and customs that tie and bind the family group together. As children grow into adults, and the world, with its influences, intrudes with increasing force into their lives, very often it is the observance of a family Christmas tradition that strengthens the influence of a wholesome family and weakens the outside forces. Mothers are unusually busy at Christmas time, and it would be easy to exclude the children from many of the preparations they find exciting. The memory of a dear little grandmother making "curly gingerbread," by a recipe brought Page 230 from England in the early 1860's, cheerily singing an old English ballad "The Mistletoe Bough" to entertain and make happy the grandchildren clustered around her, has not only enriched each Christmas season for one woman, but has inspired her to try to adopt the virtues of an unusually fine and spiritual grandmother. A mother began, with her first child, a custom that has become dear to each child as he joined the family circle. On Christmas Eve, the very last thing before being tucked into bed, the mother and her children sit before the fireplace where the stockings are hung, and the mother reads the story of the birth of the Christ Child. Even the tiniest child, too young to understand the full import of the story, knows the pictures and knows that Christmas is celebrated not only because of Santa Claus, but more important because the birth of little "baby Jesus" is celebrated on that day. Yes, Chnstmas is for patents, as well as for children. Let this season of peace and good will make the Christmas celebration a tie to bind the family group together. —G. R. G. Yn Memoriam Grace Elizabeth Pack Callis HE General Board of Relief Society and the membership in all the stakes and missions of the Church pay tribute at this time to an outstanding and greatly loved Latter-day Saint woman—Grace Elizabeth Pack Callis. Sister Callis, wife of Elder Charles A. Callis, passed away October 12, 1946, at the age of seventy-three. Her life was filled with the satisfaction and happiness that come from devoted and unselfish service. A helpful and gifted wife, Sister Callis accompanied her husband on many of his missionary journeys, and, with him, spent nearly twenty-eight years in the Southern States Mission. There she organized and directed the activities of the Relief Societies and Young Women's Mutual Improvement Associations. She was an inspirational speaker, and her lovable personality attracted many sincere friends. After Brother Callis became an apostle, Sister Callis accompanied him on visits to ten missions, including the Hawaiian and the Japanese. She was the mother of eight children, six of whom were born in the South. She will long be remembered as an ideal woman who achieved a rich fulfillment of her life as a wife. Mother, and a faithful worker in the Church she loved. THE STAR STILL SHINES Jeanette P. Parry I do not mind dark Christmas skies tonight, And ruthless winds invading naked trees; The selfsame star still shines on Bethlehem That brought the frightened shepherds to their knees. I wish I might have heard the angels sing When all the world in silver silence lay, And Mary, mother of the Son of God, Delivered, rested on the manger hay. I do not see him on a rough hewn cross With crown of cruel thoms upon his head; I see the glory of the virgin's smile That left a halo on his lowly bed. The memory still glows in spite of evil deeds, Of fear and greed and hearts bowed low with pain, He walks upon the hills to give us hope His star will shine in all the world again. Page §31 Notes TO THE FIELD Organizations and Reorganizations of Mission and Stake Reliof Societies Since the last report, printed in the November 1945 issue of The Relief Society Magazine Stakes Berkeley Davis East Rigby Hillside North Rexburg Palo Alto South Idaho Falls Temple View Missions Australian Bnitish California Central Pacific Central States Czechoslovakian Danish East Central East German European French Northern Norwegian Samoan Swedish Swiss-Austrian Tongan Western States Page 832 ORGANIZATIONS Formerly Part of Appointed President Date of Appointment Oakland North Davis and South Davis Rigby and North Idaho Falls Sugar House Rexburg San Francisco Idaho Falls Wells and Pioneer Louise O. Knight Effie J. Webster Lida Call Violet W. Duncan Hattie L. Rigby Leila A. Gates Eleanora B. Allen Lorena W. Anderson REORGANIZATIONS Released President Appointed President October 18, 1946 November 25, 1945 August 11, 1946 January 20, 1946 November 11, 1945 July 21, 1946 July 21, 1946 January 13, 1946 Date of Appointment June C. Orme Zina C. Brown Lydia Allen Lydia Ann N. Romney (died May 18, 1945) Leone W. Doxey Mary H. Stoddard Evelyn H. Dunn Lucile B. Madsen Florence T. Rees Gladys S. Boyer Vivian R. McConkie Georgia H. Weenig (Kathleen I. Turner (Edyth Hansen (Martha W. Brown Wallace F. Toronto, Mission President Alma L. Peterson, Mission President Hilda M. Richards Martha Ann B. Stover Leona B. Sonne Kate M. Barker Elna P. Haymond Margaret B. Peterson Thursa A. T. Adams Ethel J. Blomquist Nida A. 'Taggart Martha G. Huntsman Lula P. Child September 27, 1945 May 7, 1946 April 30, 1946 February 7, 1946 October 21, 1945 March 18, 1946 September 4, 1946 May 24, 1946 July 1, 1946 October 30, 1946 October 11, 1946 October 11, 1946 April 22, 1946 December 26, 1945 January 19, 1946 July 19, 1946 January 19, 1946 April 24, 1946 April 29, 1946 December 7, 1945 NOTES TO THE FIELD Stakes Alberta Boise Bonneville Cassia Duchesne Granite Grantsville Humboldt Idaho Idaho Falls Idaho Falls Liberty Long Beach Moon Lake Nebo North Davis Ogden Parowan Pocatello Reno Rexburg Sacramento St. Johns San Bernardino San Fernando San Francisco San Luis Sevier Sharon Sharon Snowflake South Davis Sugar House Uintah Union Washington Wayne Weiser Wells Yellowstone azine. Released President 833 Appointed President Date of Appointment Fern B. Wood Margaret N. Low Josephine G. Anderson Maudelle Harris Leona G. Holbrook Annie M. Mercer Florence B. Madsen Vauna S. Jacobsen Carrie Wrathall Gladys W. Savage Louie A. Call Idetta E. Merrill Eleanora B. Allen Diana R. Lambert Pearl C. Miner Margaret M. Pace Gwen W. Dixon (Died Jan. 19, 1946) Effie J. Webster Kate F. Woodbury Barbara M. Adams Mary H. Whitaker Bertha J. Purdy Elizabeth Stowell Edith D. Sellers Clara R. Sherwood Evelyn W. Heath Sadie E. Williams Agnes F. Lindsay Jane C. Anderson Myr] B. Brugger Fern H. Laudie Lillie C. Sumsion Leonora S. Rogers Alta C. Hess Violet W. Duncan Mae T. Johnson Ellen S. Bean Dessie W. Thomas Ida M. Jackson Erma B. Chadwick Lorena W. Anderson Mary B. Blanchard Aliene M. Young Ruth P. Holt Cecilia O. Gilbert Beth C. Cannon Annie Williams Ella Mae Parker Elizabeth W. Hatch Eleanora B. Allen Loveda Petersen LaNola Driggs Frances S. Wilcox Birdie R. Swasey Nadine Brown Pearl W. Burton Cleona Hedenstrom Edna S. Hatch Helga H. Pugmire Isabel Cooke Lu Seba W. Petersen Erma F. Roskelley Anona C. Heap Effie C. Tanner Mary E. Cutler DeLilah Fuellenbach Lela Bailey Ivy C. Ashby Lillie C. Sumsion Ruby S. Hunn Lydia S. Peterson Reva T. Wicker Vauna S. Jacobsen Muriel S. Wallis Julia H. Decker Gwendolyn T. Gwynn Beatrice G. Brinkerhoft Naomi May Chandler Cacia F. Margetts Vivian H. Orme February 17, 1946 June 23, 1946 June 16, 1946 August 25, 1946 November 4, 1945 January 13, 1946 October 13, 1946 September 22, 1946 October 27, 1946 March 31, 1946 July 21, 1946 August 25, 1946 August 18, 1946 May 19, 1946 March 9, 1946 October 28, 1945 March 27, 1946 May 5, 1946 December 9, 1945 October 20, 1946 November 11, 1945 October 28, 1945 September 9, 1945 July 7, 1946 December 8, 1945 September 29, 1946 August 25, 1946 April 28, 1946 October 28, 1945 July 7, 1946 February 24, 1946 October 18, 1945 January 20, 1946 February 28, 1946 June 2, 1946 December 9, 1945 February 24, 1946 June 23, 1946 January 13, 1946 May 24, 1946 Relief Society General Conference HREE of the addresses delivered at the Relief So ence, October 2 and 3, Magazine: "Our Wives and J. Reuben Clark, Jr.; "Hearken to Counsel," by Elder and "The Place of Relief Society in the Welfare Plan,' Lee. The other addresses delivered at this conference full or in digest form in the ciety general confer- 1946, are presented in full in this issue of the Our Mothers in the Eternal Plan," by President Joseph Fielding Smith; ' by Elder Harold B. Will be published in January 1947 issue of The Relief Society Mag- Prelude to Christmas Frances C. Yost ING Winter laid his ermine K carpet of snow in readiness for the coming yuletide. Strings of gay, colored lights winked from every shrub and pine. Festive wreaths hung on the doors. Every house on Oak Street seemed ready to greet the eve of Christmas—except one. Even inside that house, however, a pudding bubbled on the kitchen coal range, permeating the air with its fragrance and steaming the windows to invisibility. Granny Crockett stood at her worktable, stuffing the last morsel of dressing into the fat rooster, but her heart was heavy. It was mighty hard rearing Mary and Baill, her two grandchildren, in this fast age, when she herself was nearing seventy. It had been a struggle for Granny both financially and physically, since her son Ronald and his wife Vie and two of their children had been killed in an automobile accident. Granny well remembered the day. She had been tending Mary, the tiny baby, for them and Bill, who was eight, had been left with her to help out. That span of eight gapping years between them, had somehow made the job of rearing them even more of a problem, and now Bill was in college, studying law. Granny thought of the problems at hand. Bill had come home from college the week before, but he seemed changed. He never stayed at home. And he hung around Sue Rankin's far too much, Girl friends Page 834 meant added problems, knew only too well. Then, too, there was something wrong with Mary. Granny had given the child every chance to pow out her troubles on Granny's shoulder, but to no avail. A child of twelve should have been bubbling over with the Christmas spirit, but Mary seemed quiet and solemn. "Mary dear, bring Granny a threaded needle to sew up this fowl." Granny's face wrinkled into a smile made of many tiny crow's-feet. Granny "Yes, Granny." Mary's — face flushed. "Land sakes, child, you don't mind havin' chicken 'stead of turkey this Christmas, do ya?" "Oh, no, Granny. Turkey couldn't be half as good as you cook chicken." "Is it cause of not havin' a tree this year?" "No, Granny, I don't mind going without a tree, honest. We can save that much toward Bill's fare back to school." Mary brought the thread to Granny. She glanced at the clock. It was almost six. She caught a sob before it did any damage. It was hard keeping things from Granny. She was wise as two, maybe three, owls. The clock itself somehow brought back everything to Mary. 'The remembrance of the night Bill had come home from college to spend the holidays moved before her, as a motion picture run too rapidly, and blurred a little. Eee Ke PRELUDE TO CHRISTMAS It had been a Friday evening. Mary had been sitting on her bed counting out her Christmas money. Three dollars and ninety-eight cents altogether. Mary had seen a lovely, lavender, hand-knit shawl of wool, with tiny flowers embroidered on it, and had decided it was the very present for Granny. Mary could imagine her with the shawl wrapped about her shoulders, her eyes shining kind of moist, and her soft gray hair falling in waves over her ears. The shawl had been matked two dollars, and it was a real bargain, So Mary had set aside two dollars in a separate pile, for the shawl. In another store, Mary had seen the cleverest perfume sets. Five tiny bottles, each holding a differ ent scent, dressed like quintuplets. On the lids of each bottle had been painted a face, and each per fume doll had worn a different colored ribbon dress. Marty knew Carma and Reah, her best friends, would simply adore such a gift, so she had set aside another dollar for two sets of perfume. That had left ninety-seven cents for stationery for Bill, and wrapping paper and ribbon. Yes, there would be just enough money, and, as tomorrow was Saturday, she would do her shopping then. Just then a tap had been heard on her door. Mary had quickly gathered up the money, and tucked it in its hiding place, and gone to open the door. "Can I come in, Sis?" almost whispered. "Sure!" Mary had closed the door behind him. Bill was tall and bronzed, a living reminder of the summet that was Bill had 835 past. He had sat on the edge of Mary's bed. "Got any money?" in his cheeks twitched. "M'm-h'm." "Say, Mary, I got roped in on a theater party with Sue and the gang tonight, and I haven't a ted cent." Their eyes had met in the murror, above Mary's dresser, and Bill had rushed on to explain: "J just can't ask Granny for spending money: Could you make me a loan?" Then he had added coyly, "Mary, old pal." Mary had visualized her money. She could spare maybe a dollar and a half. She guessed she could give Carma and Reah hankies instead of the perfume sets. She could buy cheaper stationery for Bill. But Granny must have that very shawl! Mary had gone to the dresser drawer and fished down under the hankie pile. She had brought out an old watch box and opened jit "How much do you need?" "How much you got?" The muscles M'8* had poured the contents on the dresser scarf. Each coin seemed like an old friend with its own life story. This papet dollar was for cleaning wall paper all day at the Sorenson's one Saturday. The other dollar told about the dirty Parker basement Mary had set in order. Each quarter told of a show she had passed up, and the nickels and dimes were gum and candy Mary had denied herself. "There's three dollars and ninetyeight cents altogether." "Pl take it all. Thanks, Sis." Bull had gathered up the money m a scoop and put it loose in his pocket. Despair had closed Mary's throat. She just couldn't make her vocal cords explain to Bill that that was her Christmas money, that he just couldn't have all of it! Mary had looked at the calendar. She had been crossing off the days until Christmas. There were just six left! That night, Mary couldn't face Granny the way she felt. Automatically she had brushed her teeth, jerked open the window, and crept shivering between the sheets. "Our Father...." Hours later she had awakened shaking, had sat up in bed and felt the chill of December through her flannel pajamas. She had shaken her brown curls. No— it hadn't been a dream. Bill really had borrowed her Christmas money...! Each afternoon after that, Mary had walked downtown after school to make certain the shawl for Granny hadn't been sold. Once she had almost asked the clerk to put the shawl away for her, but had decided there wasn't any use. She wouldn't be able to earn two dollars before Christmas. OW it was Christmas Eve. Bill had never mentioned the money. Mary wished for the thousandth time that she had told Bill it was Christmas money and had just not let him have it! She found herself almost wishing Bill hadn't even come home for Christmas, just stayed at the school. She could have sent him a present then. Now, who would give Granny a present? Mary knew Bill didn't have anything, because he always showed her his present for Granny. Poor old Granny— she dotes on Christmas so much, thought Marv. If her stocking were empty on Christmas morning... Mary couldn't bear the thought. She hid behind the curtain so Granny wouldn't see, as she dried her moist eyes. Tiny snowflakes, like down feathers, fluttered to the ground, each flake intent on building a fresh white path for Santa's-sleigh before the eventide. Suddenly, Mary noticed Reah and Carma coming up the walk. 'They were each carrying gifts wrapped in tissue. Mary tumed from the window quickly. "Granny, Carma and Reah are coming. Please tell them I'm not home. Please, Granny." Mary started to run up the stairs. "Wait, child. You wouldn't make your old Granny tell a lie would you?" "All night, Granny, but I wish I really wasn't home. I... I wish I were dead!" "There, there, child. Go to the door, and greet your friends with a cheery Christmas wish." Then she thought: When these girls are gone Pll have a talk with Mary. She's evaded me long enough. That child's in some sort of trouble, and I mean to get to the bottom of it. Mary opened the door as the girls knocked. "Hello, Granny Crockett, and Mary," Carma bubbled, "we brought over a little gift to put under your tree." "Why! Why,-we haven't decorated our tree yet," Mary stammered. "Well, we'll just put them here on the table then, for now," Reah smiled. The cutting cold had stung her ears to redness. "IT... I haven't wrapped your presents yet, kids. We're late this 836 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1946 PRELUDE To CHRISTMAS veat." Marv wore an expression of bewilderment. "Mary, the whole gang is going caroling tonight. They're going to meet at my place about nine o'clock. Please come, your alto is so good," Carma invited. "I'm afraid I can't g0. You see... Granny isn't feeling well." Mary stopped short. Granny had said never to lie, and she seemed to be telling one right after another. Mary felt ill at ease and sighed with relief when her friends finally left. ARY tumed to Granny. She could see that she would have to make an explanation of some kind for her actions, She would tel] just one more lie. Granny must never know about Bill's having taken the money. Just then the back door opened. It was Bill, for he always entered like a gust of wind. He had Sue Rankin with him. "Hello, Mary and Gran. 'm home." Bill favored them with a gtade "A" grin. "Say, Granny, I want to let you in ona secret. Sue's promised to wait for me 'till I get my shingle up. And she even wants to Wear my frat pin 'stead of 4 sparkler, Imagine that! | brought her over to help decorate this tree. It's the Prettiest one in town." Bil] displayed a well-shaped evergreen, its branches shimmering with fresh snowflakes beneath the kitchen light. "Why, hello, Sue," Granny welcomed Bill's friend warmly, Bill pulled out his purse. It was bulging. He started to thing, but Granny, with a wide-eyed €r€ on earth did you get that 837 money this time of year, young man?" Granny spoke firmly. It was her job to check up on such things, and she intended to do it even in front of Sue, if necessary, "Why, Granny, I've worked all week at Tyler's, delivering orders," Bill stated proudly. Then, turning to Mary, "Here's five dollars, Mary. A dollar and two cents interest. I'd have paid you back sooner, but they just this minute paid me off." "But Bill... Five dollars!" started to protest. "That's okay, Sis. Banks charge more interest when they don't require security." A hard, painful little kernel in the center of Mary's being seemed to be melting out of existence. At sight of her, Bill's heart was swelled to bursting. He caught Mary in his arms and held her hard. "J thought you knew I'd pay in time for Christmas. Look at the clock. There are still two more hours before the stores close," Maty's face was shining as she looked up. "Granny, may I go down town?" Then in a whisper for Granny's ears alone, "I'm going to buy some mistletoe for Sue and Bill." She hurried for her wraps. "Granny, I think I'll go caroling with the gang before I come home." Granny left Sue and Bill to decorate the tree, Mary manger that first Christmas, many, Many years ago, the making and buying of presents was the prelude to Christmas, Faith Is a Heritage Christie Lund Coles CHAPTER 9 Synopsis: Kid Drage, young, attractive widow of 'Tom Drage, is teaching in the small town where she and her daughter Sharon live in Miss Nobbit's small apartment. Sharon complains of their lack of a home and Enid considers marrying the town banker who has tried to court her. Miss Nobbit dies suddenly and leaves her property to Enid. HOUGH it had been hard, at first, to handle the other woman's things and to live in her house, as the days and weeks passed, Enid found herself singing while she polished windows, furniture, silver, as she added a touch here and there to take the formal coldness from the house and make it more livable. Sharon helped her, touching the things with a little awe, saying, "I wonder where she got this ornate vase?" or, "How long do you suppose she has had these darling cups and saucers?" One day Sharon looked up with lovely, surprised eyes as her mother asked, "Do you know why we are cleaning everything so well?" "Yes. So it will seem more like our Own." "Well, not exactly. I'm going to have a party for you. What kind would you like?" Sharon paused a moment, looked about the large dining room and at the pretty dishes in the china cupboard. "I'd like a dinner party. I've always wanted one. Can we ask some boys, too?" "Don't you think you're a little young?"' Page 838 "Don't say that," Sharon begged, "sixteen is not young any more." "But you're not quite sixteen yet." "Soon will be." "Yes. But you're entitled to be fifteen until your birthday." "T don't want to wait that long." They both laughed, and Enid, graciously, conceded, "All right. There will be boys. Which ones... And what shall we eat?" "The eating will be your department. Which boys... Well, Ray Millersberg for one... Donald Web- @... "You rather like Ray, don't you?" Enid had been wanting to ask that for the past year, ever since she had noticed that he occasionally carried her books home and loitered by the gate. He was a nice boy; he had good, upright parents. She had never broached the subject before, because, somehow, she wanted to put off the day, as long as possible, when Sharon would be going out, would be interested in boys. Yet, she wanted that part of life for her daughter, just as she wanted every normal, good experience for her, every happy, wonderful phase of living. And the unhappy moments, too, if they would make her a better woman, a more understanding and unselfish wife. Sharon had taken her time to answer. Now she said, simply, "Yes. I like Ray. He's simply swell." "Come now, isn't there a better word for it than that? You wouldn't FAITH IS A HERITAGE suppose your mother had ever taught school." "T shouldn't want anyone to suppose it, if it meant I had to talk different from the rest of the crowd." Enid sighed. She hated to preach, though sometimes she wondered about this "crowd" thing. Young people seemed almost to have been turned out in a mold—one after another, the same words, the same clothes, the same possessions. She supposed it had been so when she was in school, though it seemed much more evident now with all the "jive" talk, the sloppy joe sweaters, and the saddle oxfords that were imperative to a girl's enjoyment of school. She began carefully, "Why do vou suppose it is, honey, that you have to be so much like the crowd?" Sharon answered it simply and quickly. And quite. Satisfactorily, "Why, it's important because then we feel that we belong, that we're not a fifth wheel on the social station wagon." Enid laughed again, using a popular slang term herself as she told her daughter, "You're sharp. And undoubtedly right. It would be too bad if we felt ourselves too let out of the parade. Even so, remember that really fine people have the courage of their convictions, they dare to be different, to grow slowly and surely..." "I know, Mom," Sharon answered. "Now, why don't you rest a few moments and figure out a super menu?" The menu was good, and the dinner a fine success. All the young people seemed to have an amazing amount of fun. She had fun being with them, watching them. When 839 it was time for them to leave, Sharon asked her mother, quietly, "Mom, Ray wants to know if I can go over to Springdale to their prom next week, he wants to know tonight." There had to be a first time, sooner or later. Enid knew her daughter would be sixteen in two weeks. She felt she had done pretty well to keep Sharon home at nights this long, when she saw the twelve and thirteen-year-old girls in their high heels and make-up, going out at nights when they should still be in bed getting long hours of sleep. She gave her consent. Later, she saw the smile on the boy's face as Sharon told him.... She remembered Tom's smile with a sudden, shaking vividness. Quietly, she went to bed. HE night Sharon went to the dance, Enid walked from one empty room to another. The house seemed unearthly quiet, except for the ticking of the grandfather's clock which stood in one corner of the living room. It seemed to be ticking the moments off grudgingly. It seemed to say, "You'll have to get used to this. She'll be gone many nights; you'll be alone. Someday, she'll marry... Then... You... Will... Be... Alone." She tried to read, to embroider, listened to the radio. Yet, in the end, she settled down in a large chair to dream of the past and just wait.. The past seemed so close. Perhaps that was why it was hard to feel she was being an adequate mother... She seemed so young herself. Perhaps people never really felt old within themselves, never thought of themselves as changing much with the passing of time. That seemed proof of the spirit's immortality. She stirred quickly as the clock struck twelve. Sharon had promised to be home at midnight. She wanted her to come, wanted to see her, touch her, help her out of her pretty dress into the clean, soft bed. She would give her some warm milk so she would be certain to relax and sleep, for well she remembered her first dance and how she had re-lived every moment for hours after. But there was no sudden opening of the door, no smiling, radiant girl coming in. The world was still. The clock ticked on. It was twelve-thirty, and when one o'clock came, her anger was replaced by apprehension. Something must have happened, something awful. She was tempted to call the marshal. Yet, she couldn't do that. If anything had happened she would have been notified; practically everyone knew Sharon, knew to whom she belonged. GHE walked out on the front porch, sat down on the railing looking toward the east, waiting. There was nothing to be seen. Then she saw the lights of a car, peering like a cat's eyes through the darkness as it came around the corner. She could hear it was making a strange noise, saw it slow down as it neared her house. She slipped, unseen, into the hall, saying to herself that she wouldn't be the kind of mother who embarrassed her daughter before her friends. She wouldn't make a scene. She wouldn't! Still, as Sharon came through the door, she couldn't help asking sharply, "Where have you been?" Sharon started to speak, then Enid noticed that Ray was with her. His clothes were dusty, there was a smear of grease on his cheek. He said quickly, "I'd like to explain to you, Mrs. Drage. I'm awfully sorry about keeping her out. We left the dance at eleven-thirty and thought we would have plenty of time. Then we had a flat. I didn't have a spare." Sharon spoke now, telling her, "We tried to hail a car and get a lift but we couldn't. Finally, the boys took the tire off and we came in on the nm." She looked so round-eyed and sweet, and the boy looked so frightened and earnest, that Enid wanted to laugh, wanted to tell them of a similar experience she had had when she was young, but she wasn't sure that would be wise, so instead she told them, "Well, let's try to see it doesn't happen again." Ray assured her, "It won't, Mrs. Drage. I promise you." He turned to leave, and she asked quietly, "Wouldn't you like to have a cup of warm milk and a cookie with Sharon?" He flushed, looked at Sharon, "Why, certainly. I'd like it very much." When they had finished their snack in the kitchen and he had left, Sharon, a little disheveled now, and sleepy, went into her mother's arms. "Tt was such fun," she told her, "even the tire. We laughed and laughed... That is, until I began worrying about you." After a moment, she added, wistfully, "My first dance." "The first of many," Enid assured her, "And now into bed with you." (To be concluded ) 840 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1946 The Place of Relief Society in the Welfare Plan (Continued from page 817) When he became thirsty from that terrible agony, he asked for a drink and they dipped the sponge in vinegar and thrust it to his lips. They mocked him, they spit upon him, they taunted him. Can you imagine more human suffering than the Master suffered, but he was not thinking of himself in those last hours, for down near the foot of the cross there huddled a little figure, her shawl pulled tightly about her face. Few friends had gathered around, and only one of the disciples, apparently. The Master had been looking down upon that little woman, and I fancy he had reached into her very soul with understanding. If her Son, this one upon the cross, should pass, who was going to care for her; who was going to take care of her and shepherd her against the pitfalls of one as lonely as she would then feel? The Master apparently thought about that, for he said, in one of the closing thoughts of his life: "Woman," as he nodded to her, "behold thy son," meaning John who stood near; and to John he said: "John, behold thy mother." And John knew what he meant, and straightway after the death of Jesus took the mother into his home and cared for her tenderly. If you would give true sympathy, then, let yours be the understanding that looks through the eyes of the sufferers and tries to see their problem from their standpoint. That is the only genuine sympathy that I know, and the only kind that should characterize the work of the Relief Society. I was up at the L. D. S. Hospital some years ago. One of my dearest friends, a man who had grown old in the service, and a grand old patriarch, was lying there with just a few hours to live. Most of the bodily processes that sustained life had ceased to function. His wife was lying down in the southeast part of the city, paralyzed and helpless. Oh, how he would have liked in that moment to have seen his dear companion, but he knew that was impossible because he had had to lift her about, she could not walk, and every move would bring pain to her wracked body. But this little woman down there in her home thought differently. She, too, had that desire, and so she had her children put her in a wheel chair. They put the wheel chair in the back of a truck and they came up to the L. D. S. Hospital and wheeled her up just outside the door where the father was dying. The daughter slipped in and said: "Daddy, would you like to see Mothey "Oh, I should say I would, but I know that is not possible. Give her my love." "But, if we should bring Mother to you, would it shock you too much?" He said: "No, I don't think so." "Well, now don't let it surprise you too much, but Mother is outside the door. We will bring her in in a few moments." And so the Mother came in. I stood watching that sacred scene. Keep in mind that he was so near death that he could not move to embrace her, and she, in her paralyzed condition, could not bend over to Page 841 cmbrace him, nor to caress him. She just sat there and patted his hand as he reached it out toward her, and this is what she said to him: "Daddy, you and I have met a lot of problems in our life, haven't we? We know what it is to go through poverty, don't we, Daddy? We know what it is to go through sickness together, don't we? We know what it is to go through sorrow, don't we; Daddy?" And he said: "Yes, we do." "Well, now, Daddy, we know how to go through this, too, don't we?" He said: "Yes, dear." And she turned to her children and said: "That is all, I am readv to go." Ah, the understanding of that lovely wife. She gave him the kind of comfort that helped him through the portals of death with a peace that only one with such understanding could have given. Do you not see now, you sisters, why it is a great Program that the Lord has established. Which does not put the delicate work of contacting those in distress in the hands of a merely paid professional. Cannot vou see why a mother who has reared her family, who has gone through these experiences, who lives neighbors to that mother, cannot you see why the Lord has put it upon the mothers of the Relief Society to visit these homes? Because, next to the Master himself, there are none in his Church who have a more lovely touch, a more complete understanding of the hearts and_ the lives of these individuals who are so precious in his sight. May the Lord bless you, my dear sisters, to carry on the great work that you have carried on through these years. You are loved as angels of mercy, as true angels of mercy. God give you the strength, the insight, and the determination, and the loyalty. Never let there be spoken in your hearing, without defense, criticism against the bishop, or against the Welfare Program, or against the Authorities of this Church. If there should come some from these whom you are trying to persuade kindly to co-operate with the bishop, in co-operating with the Welfare Program, where a Program has been developed for ten years to make for the security and peace of our people, when you find them in the homes, do not let yours ever be the voice that joms with them in criticism and saying, "Well, there must be some politics in this, or something else." You always say to them, if you are true to your responsibility as the sisters of the Relief Society: "My brother, my sister, if it were not for the fact that the Presidency of this Church knew that the Welfare Program was Godinspired, and was for the blessing and benefit of the children of our Heavenly Father, who are members of this Church, we know that never would it have been given to us." If you will take that attitude, I want to tell you that power and strength will come to you, and influence for good that cannot be wielded by any other organization on the face of this earth. God bless you to measure up to your high responsibility and do the things that our Father has assigned to the Relief Society in this Welfare Program, I pray humbly, in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ, Amen. 842 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1946 Hearken to Counsel do with you if you reaching offense? Your children? Will countenance y are made to our evil in which so suffer? Do you think u can make another covenant when t been jus ovenant, which brought ou have no of a former Cc to the childr Father will not permit us to tram under our feet at Vv in and after the resurrection. Some of us of these eternal blessings because of our we be judged, and, being found guilty, lose the whole. The Lord bless you, I pray, in the = eee DRESSING A DOLL Maude Blixt Trone How very gay 4 little dress can be! I think that I shall bind the neck with blue, And sew some little buttons on it, too, And make a pinafore of dimity. She'd better have a little coat of fur, For Jane will want to go to church with her. And she must have a lovely party dress With lace frills and ribbons, and, I guess, Flowers for her hair. Oh, I must hurry For children's years, like little rabbits, scurty Away so fast, just barely leaving Time enough for happiness or grieving Over the dolls that come and go away. Hurry! Janie has so little time to play. A eee PRECIOUS SEASONS Thelma Ireland Spring makes me think of iron, Plowed earth so rich and brown, While summer is more golden, Grain fields like yellow down. And Autumn is like coppet, That Jack Frost changed one night, But Winter is like platinum, So brittle, hard, and white. Fach season has its metal, Fach valuable and dear, So we should value evety day And every precious year. Paae 845 (Continued from page 808) are guilty of this farWhat will b Do — think —_ tified in the breakied in tne ow ill simply because of some trifling dissatisfaction. There will have to be many adjustments and out plans, if they are not in harmony with the law the Lord has given, will not stand petty and evil actions. Let us beware how we hold the covenants of the Lord, lest name of Jesus Christ, Amen. LESSON Sheology —Church History Lesson 22—The Welfare Plan Initiated Elder H. Wayne Driggs For Tuesday, March 4, 1947 Objective: To show how the Lord is helping his saints to face the problems of our day. NNER spiritual strength comes often through suffering. To be called upon to share enriches the soul. The Lord would have his people experience the joys of the greater love known through service to others. From the very beginning, the testored Church of our day has been forced through persecution and hardship into the close bonds of brotherhood. From the early days of the Church in New York, across the rolling hills of Ohio, on to the level prairies of the Mississippi, and thence to the mountains of the great West, the saints have been forced to share alike in joys and sorrows. Poor in material goods and the promise of great worldly wealth, the pioneers of Utah learned to seek the inner joys of the spirit which God gives to his people. No man can understand these promptings of the heart who has not first complied with the gospel principles. Only these signs shall follaw them that believe and enter in at the straight and narrow gate. Quietly, but effectively forward have moved the Lord's people, until today they number their strength by the thousands. Their roots are deep. Winds of adPaae 844 versity have only anchored them more firmly, and now, amid the storms that rage at home and abroad, may be seen the wisdom of God in keeping his people one. The world will never fully understand the Church Welfare Plan, which had its beginning in August of 1933, with public announcement by the First Presidency at April conference 1936, until it can more fully accept the Lord's way of caring for those in need: Pure religion and undefiled before God and the Father is this, To visit the fatherless and widows in their affliction, and to keep himself unspotted from the world (James 1:27). It is the spiritual value of this present plan that is at the basis of its operation. The passage, "Thou shalt love thy neighbor as thyself," remembered most as a New Testament quotation, is God's will as recorded first in the Old Testament (Lev. 19:18). Men must learn these unchanging truths if they would honestly care for their less fortunate brothers. In the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, the enduring values of the Lord's will have ever been taught. Saints humbly trust in his LESSON DEPARTMENT unfailing promises and strive to receive his word. To them, the heavens are not closed. God still speaks through his properly ordained servants today as of old. 'These facts must be kept in mind if one would truly understand the genius of the present Welfare Plan of the Church. Based, then, upon the will of the Lord, the Latter-day Saints take literally his express will as follows: first, they believe that it is more blessed to give than to receive (Acts 20:35); and second, they have learned his command to labor. From Sinai came the words, "Six days shalt thou labour, and do all thy work... Thou shalt not steal... Thou shalt not covet..." Ex. 20::9, 15,17). Said President J. Reuben Clark, Jr.: Thus the Divine commands to the Church and the directions of its leaders to the people, require as a fundamental principle of their religion that Church members not in distress shall care for the needy widow and orphan, and for the poor, and that these latter shall not lay their hands on other men's goods, they shall not be greedy or covetous, they shall not be idlers, and the physically fit shall work for what they get. No exception has been made to these commands, and no person has been taken out from under them. The Church vigorously decries idleness. Industry, economy, and thrift are extolled. Deceit, avarice, dishonesty, lying, greed, graft are condemned. Honesty, truthfulness, sobriety, willingness to give, love for fellowmen, sympathy for woe, misery, and want, service to and for others, are urged to the point of command. These are the reasons for setting up the Church Welfare Plan; they are the principles underlying it. We claim no monopoly on the virtues which have made our achievements possible. These virtues have been the common heritage of every pioneer out-thrusting in America. Save perhaps in degree, our experience 845 has been the experience of all the pioneers of Western America. None were subsidized, none had easy money, none either asked for or received, government gratuities. Had they waited for these, indeed had they got them, America would never have been built. Some justify our present economic course by saying, 'times have changed." So they have, but character-building has not. The laws of righteousness and progress are eternal. 'There is no escape from them, either for the individual or for the nation. An uncorrupted citizenry builds a great State; no State ever built an uncorrupted citizenry. No man is politically free who depends upon the State for his sustenance. A planned and subsidized economy beats down initiative, wipes out industry, destroys character, and prostitutes the electorate. I repeat—In view of all these considerations, the Church has felt that in setting up its Welfare Plan, it was not only meeting its prescribed duty as a Church to its members, but was performing a duty of patriotism to our country ("Church Welfare Program, A Discussion," by President J. Reuben Clark, Jr., Estes Park, Colotado, June 20, 1939, pp. 5, 6, 7, 8). Over thirteen years have passed since the present Welfare Plan of the Church had its beginning. It was started in 1933, with public announcement by the First Presidency at the general conference, April 1936. 'The worst depression ever to grip the world then threatened to engulf thousands. Sensing the effect this suffering would have, not only upon the physical well-being of the saints, but also what the enslavement of temporary jobs and the dole would bring, the General Authonrities of the Church sought the Lord's will as it had been given and envisioned a timely plan that would be "a very present help in trouble" (Psalms 46:1). It seemed then to many who were called to lay in a year's supply of food and clothing that there might be undue alarm for giving such instructions. Quietly, however, the organization of the Priesthood in the wards and stakes was marshalled. The bishop, as father of the ward, called his counselors and clerk and began a closer check up of suffering and unemployed among his families. The ward teachers brought in upon new card forms, information which would help to keep in constant touch with each ward member. Relief Society sisters stimulated again the pioneer virtues of their grandparents, preserved foodstuffs, prepared clothing, and established sewing and cooking centers where larger groups could learn and encourage one another in the arts of industry and thrift. Household budgets were studied and prepared, the fainthearted were given encouragement, despair and distress were turned to hope and faith. From the small towns to the crowded cities, saints, often slow at first to comprehend, finally respond. Ed to the call of the Church. A new security developed. There was strength in unity, and problems which seemed hard in the dark days of want grew less, as members accepted the role of being their brothers' keepers. Today, the objectives of the Church Welfare Plan, as outlined in the L. D. S. Church: Welfare Handbook of Instructions, indicate the wisdom and inspiration which brought this much-needed help to the Church. Truly a people cannot perish with such divine vision: OBJECTIVES: The Church Welfare Plan is a program designed to relieve distress among Church members who may be in need; to strengthen the economic condition of all who participate by utilizing surpluses of time, talents, effort and substance, and to promote the general welfare of the Church members at large. Its detailed objectives include the following: 1. That no member of the Church shall want for sustenance. 2. That needed assistance be rendered in times of sickness, accident, death, or other distress to all for whom the Church is responsible. 3. That whenever and wherever worthy employable members are unable to find gainful employment sufficient for their needs, they shall be provided an opportunity to work on a welfare project. 4. That any person who receives welfare assistance, unless unemployable, shall work in the Program. 5- That benefits received for such work be mainly in terms of welfare produced food and commodities, supplemented by other supplies and cash if necessary, the total amount of which shall be based on the needs of the family unit rather than on a fixed compensation per unit of time. There may be some exceptions to this general rule where specific amounts of cash and commodities are given for service rendered. But even in these cases, where such fixed earnings are not sufficient for the needs of the family they may be supplemented by additional commodities from a bishops' storehouse. 6. That the terms "dole" and "charity," as generally understood, have no place in this program. Worthy members who, through age or other disability, are incapable of working in the Program, and who have no other logical means of support, shall be sustained by their respective Church communities from the resources of the Welfare Plan, not as charity but in recognition of their faithful support and services to the Church. 7. That families that are closely associated as neighbors, or through quorum, ward or other Church organizational activities, be encouraged to form small productive groups for co-operatively helping each other to plant and harvest crops, can, process and store foods, or carry out other projects for their mutual advantage and well-being. Such activities are to be car- 846 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1946 LESSON DEPARTMENT ried on separate and apart from the bishop's storehouse Program but in many lo. The stakes "of the In the missions, welfare work is limited to an effort to solve local prob. Lems. WORKERS may be classified as: 1. Those who, through need of Sustenpensation for such Services, 3- Those who are employed on a part or full time basis to be supervisors or key- 4. Those who are called to direct the Program, whether in general capacities, regional, stake or ward. These basic functions are: -T. To determine the needs of the peole.: 2. To gather and Properly control cash and commodity contributions, 3. To render needed assistance and to Provide employment through work pro. Jects. 4- To manage the storage and 'distribu. 847 tion of commodities. 5- To meet members Tequiring assistance. - To provide hospitalization for Church cases. (L. D. S-Ghureh Welfare Handbook of Instructions, PP. 7-10). Suggestions for Active Reading and Discussion _ With the help of the Suggested readings Wherein we must "give heed unto his word," which has been written for our life in this day. Here are but a few active Church mem. Bers today who have not, in part at least, I hurch Wel. Services rendered. The Handbook of Instruction on Latter-day Saint Church Welfare is most complete in outlining the Operation of this plan. Pamphlet should be at discussion of this questions and readings that follow: 1. Who may fall under the condemnation of the Lord, the rich or the poor? Read Doc. And Cov. 56:16-20. The Lord said on that oc. - and Cov, 83). What sigY new interpretation to the old law of "love thy neighbor'' js given in this revelation? 3. The Lord would have his people seek camestly the riches of eternity. This, he said, could not be done with eyes full of Sreediness (Doc. Why not? Concerning ties? (Read 104:18.) References Deseret News, "Church Section." April 6, 1946; April 20, 1946. Visiting Seachers' ITlessages—Our Pioneer Heritage Lesson 6—Self-Reliance President Amy Brown Lyman For Tuesday, March 4, 1947 Objective: 'To show that the pioneers were resourceful, creative, and self-reliant. NE of the distinctive differences between the first settlers of Utah and other early settlers in Western America was that the Latter-day Saint colonizers came from a larger number of different localities than did those of any other group. 'There were among them representatives from ___ practically every state in the Union, from Canada, and from several European countries. 'Then, too, among the Latter-day Saints there were farmers, tradesmen, factory workers, teachers, physicians, clerks, etc. This variation in background, training, and experience was a great advantage to these colonists as individuals as it was also to the communities as a whole. It resulted in greater vision, a broader viewpoint, and added to their efficiency in planning and in carrying out their plans successfully. It has often been said that necessity is the mother of invention. It might be added that necessity is also the mother of resourcefulness. And it is resourcefulness which enables people to manage well. It helps them to accomplish things. It begets self-reliance. In resourcefulness, creative ability, and_ self-reliance, the pioneers of Utah were masters of the highest order. With wisdom and foresight, Brigham Young had advised those who were planning to emigrate to Utah to bring with them choice seeds, good tools of every description, machinery not only for farming but also for spinning and weaving. All these things stood them in good stead in their efforts at community building. During the first year in Utah, there was great activity in plowing, planting, and in irrigating. The pioneers soon learned that in this desert land irrigation was a necessity. Gristmills and sawmills were soon built. A tannery for making leather for shoes and harnesses had to be constructed. Other industries were gradually established, and fortunately those were found who, because of past experience in mills, shops, factories, and mercantile establishments, were able to carry on the work required. Upon their arrival in the Valley. The pioneers lived in their wagons until they were able to cut and saw and haul logs from the canyons for the building of cabins. Later, for home building, they used adobe or bricks made of clay and dried in the sun. Cobblestones in clay and soft rocks were also used. Old-fashioned fireplaces were installed for heating and cooking. The fuel used was sage and oak brush. A few pieces 848 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1946 , LESSON DEPARTMENT €r, floors maq fro logs flattened On one sid > and not always to smooth, ere used nd, fj ally, Taided rugs and home de carpets Were add Objective lines and }, eference The Complete Book of Sewing, Trimmings ery often a Perfectly fitted and rorrectly lineg farment js Completely spoiled by its ttimmings Study line, balance, and Proportion fully for ty; mings. The decorative items of Costume shou] never look as jf they hag been fastened 9 © garment: but €y should be blended Into, its Mes. (See he Complete Book of Sewing, Chapter 21.) Collars Collar fa hions ¢ nge from one The fit and shape of a dress neck — §0vern the fit of the Collar. A perfect neckline that hugs the base of is m comfortable collar can ne 849 te of Self-re ANce jis in 0spel of the Master.. NOst essen tial, 850 To alter a poor dress neckline, recut the shoulders and the neck, if the blouse is long enough. If not, add a piece of material, as from 1-2 shown on Figure B. (See The Complete Book of Sewing, Chapter 16, pp. 110-115). Hems Know the purpose of hems. 'Too many sewers think the only purpose of a hem is to dispose of, or hide, the raw edge at the bottom of a dress. A hem is a finish for the lower edge, or on other parts of a garment. All types of Hems should be even, without the slightest variation. The method of sewing in place depends on the design of the garment and the type of fabric. Some hems serve only as a finish, while others are decorative as well. The average person pulls the stitches too tight and overRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1946 stitches when hemming. For the average weight material, stitches should be from 3/8 to 3/4 inches apart. The stitches should have sufficient ease to prevent an imprint of the stitch from showing on the right side of the garment. Never put a hem in silks, woolens, or fine muslin with a sewing machine. Hems in materials of these types should always be put in by hand. The usual depth of a hem for dresses and skirts is about 2 inches, unless the skirt is flared or circular, then the hem should be natrower. The fullness at the top of a circular hem, if it is made too deep, causes a bulky, heavy top, resulting in a pronounced hemline on the right side of the garment. Assignment for Apnil: Bring the dress you have completed, ready for fasteners, and bring the type of fasteners desired. ~~ > of iterature—America as Revealed in Its Literature Lesson 6—Carrying America Across a Continent Elder Howard R. Driggs For Tuesday, March 4, 1947 T one time, the writer, visiting the historical museum at Portland, Oregon, was shown by its veteran custodian, George Himes, an intriguing exhibit. "This corner," said the pioneer, "has a relic from each state east of the Mississippi. Here, for example, is a clock that ticked time in Vermont; here a scythe that mowed blue grass in Kentucky; here a Franklin stove that warmed a home in Pennsylvania; and here a cradle in which a baby was rocked as its parents crossed the plains from Indiana." "That is most interesting," was the response. "Wouldn't it be fine, too, if we could show something else those pioneers carried into their great conquest of the West?" "What is that?" "Oh, I was just thinking of their high American ideals—based on a spint of true Chnistianity. They came to build homes, and with them schools, and churches. They came to found communities of the Amencan pattern and spirit." "Yes, indeed, they did," agreed the pioneer, "and they even Here was tu our civilization across 4 continent. In the story of this great westward h of America, there is some spiritual urge that, perhaps unknow ingly with s e individuals a © Beautiful for pilgnm feet, Whose stem, impassioned stress, A thoroughfare for freedom beat, Across the wilderness! Often portrayed in plays and pag Leaders, counselling te eople, often rose to eloquence, and, oc portraying the life and character of the true westet pioneers. A few lines from Oxteam Days, by Ezra Meeker, who Ss. =] must not think that we had no recreation and that we were a sorrowful There never was a happier lot of: Everybody had something to do, and that very fact made us all happy: In his little book of boyhood men ories, Overland in a Covered Wagon, Joaquin Miller, poet of the Sierras, brings to us with literary touch something of the same spint with pictures of pioneer days. In the poem "When Little Sister Came," he says: We dwelt in the woods of the Tippecanoe, In a lone, lost cabin, with never a view Of the full day's sun for a whole year through. With strange half hints through the russet com We three were hurried one night. Next morn There was frost on the trees, and a sprinkle of snow And tracks on the ground. Through the door, And a girl baby cried—and then we were four. We burst Just a touch here of the joy three pioneer lads had in welcoming a little sister to their group. The Miller home in old Indiana, and later in Oregon, was, though isolated, one of simple culture. The father was a teacher; the mother of gentle, refined spirit. Books they had—good books—and the joy of these was shared by the family. Later, one son caught the "gold fever' and drifted into California, where he became a poet. His love and appreciation of babes was later expressed in another of his poems, "Utah's Best Crop." In carrying America "from sea to shining sea," the pioneers exemplified their love for the simple, basic things of life. Home and children, friends and neighbors, devotion to the principles of Christianity—were of first moment with the honest settlers of our great land. With these came a desire for learning and culture and true recreation. Finally, to assure these blessings, the government of the free American pattern was established in the communities and states that were developed out of the new domain. The late Senator William E. Borah pays this eloquent tribute to these nation builders who added new stars to our flag: Invading a wildemess, a region without order, a vast country without law, traveling strange paths, and adopting sometimes harsh and startling methods, nevertheless the ultimate aim was great commonwealths, a country dedicated to orderly and regulated liberty. The pioneer was not merely an adventurer seeking gold, he was an empire builder; he laid a broad and firm foundation for these great commonwealths. They are in the true sense the real monuments to the pioneer. Reference to the pioneer, however brief, would be both incomplete and unfair without special mention of the pioneer woman.... What a marvel of patience, of devotion, of indefinable charm and tenderness, even amid the roughest environments of the desert; and above all, what self-control and courage in the hour of imminent peril! Some gifted pen will sometime, I trust, pay a fitting tribute to this sublime exhibition of American womanhood. (From Introduction to Frontier Law.) At least one really artistic expression honoring the pioneer woman has come within recent years. This is from the pen of one of Utah's gifted poets, Ann Woodbury Hafen, by whose gracious permission we are privileged to present here: MY MOTHER'S HAND Today I looked upon a map of the West— my mother's hand. Flesh geography of the old frontier. In the strong blue veins that ridged the furrowed skin,. In the eddied knuckles, weathered nails, and gullied palm I saw the raw West shape a woman's hand As that hand shaped the West. A picture map deep-etched—this hand that worked a hoe, 852 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1946 LESSON DEPARTMENT Scythed alfalfa bribes for evening milk, Carried adobes for the long-dreamed - house, Scrubbed out irngation's mud and sweat. This steady hand that pressed the danger trigger Delivered newborn, needled shrouds, and washed the dead. Ninety beauty-hungry years, through four generations of weddings The sure hand moved, a self-willed dynamo creating Sixty stitches to a minute, twenty pieces to a quilt-block, Forty blocks to a quilt of rainbow wedding rings To warm the matings. In an Old World garden, velvet white, this hand Secreted seeds in a young bride's deepest pocket, Guarded them from hunger's blind devouring Through six thousand alien miles And fed them at last to the black volcanic ash Of the Rocky Mountains. Out of a woman's bended labor, Watered by a widow's tearful prayers, Stirred by courage of a mother's handThe sleeping land awoke to food and flowers. Flesh geography of the West I touched today. In the seamed erosions of a weathered palm I saw a nation's story carved in glory. Dynamic map of life, my mother's hand. Another poetic picture—this of a pioneer father—by the same artist, under the title, "Another Lincoln," printed in Mrs. Hafen's book of poems Quenched Fire, portrays the culture and beauty of life of our pioneers amid exacting hardships. Some of our authors are beginning to bring out, with artistic strokes, the inner spirit and true character of the stalwart, yet tender men and women who carried our civilization across a continent. Nowhere is all this home-build- 853 ing, community-founding conquest of the West more plainly shown, than in the stirring story of our own pioneers. Unlike other home seekers, those true to the 'Latter-day Saint faith, went westward not "'on their own," nor in hastily formed, temporary groups, but as carefully organized caravans, trusting in leaders they believed to be inspired. As a tesult, their percentage of casualties on the dangerous trail across plains and mountains was comparatively much lower; and the colonization of the new homeland relatively of greater success. A clear, concrete picture of 'the great work of founding communities in the valleys of the mountains—a region no one else wanted—may be found in the book, Brigham Young, by Preston Nibley. It is an American epic of challenging interest, this story of the planting of towns throughout the arid region with practical and spiritual guidance, and with the principles of freedom exemplified in their government. Within the first decade after the arrival of the pioneer vanguard, these self-sustaining, self-governing communities had been established by our people not only over Utah, but in what is now Idaho, Wyoming, Nevada, and California. More to our present purpose, the spiritual and cultural side of life was splendidly remembered in _ this planting. | Churches, temples, schools, and even theaters were built along with homes. Religion, education, recreation—all went hand in hand with industry. Authors and artists and actors were encouraged in their creative work, yet all these varied activities, it was taught, were to be infused with the spint of the gospel if the blessings of the Lord were to be upon them. Pictures of such a God-inspired homeland stirred one youthful-spirited poet in far-off England, Charles W. Penrose, to write these lyric lines: O ye mountains high, where the clear blue sky Arches over the vales of the free, Where the pure breezes blow and the clear streamlets flow, How I've longed to your bosom to flee! O Zion! Dear Zion! Land of the free, Now my own mountain home, unto thee I have come— ' All my fond hopes are centered in thee. In later years, another poet, contemplating the America that might have been visioned by those who laid its foundations on the principles of freedom, wrote: O beautiful for patriot dream That sees beyond the years; Thine alabaster cities gleam Undimmed by human tears! America! America! God shed his grace on thee, And crown thy good with brotherhood, From sea to shining seal —Katherine Lee Bates All this brings us to a concluding thought which may be made clear and concrete with a simple analogy. In their westward march, the pioneers stretched the warp of true Americanism stout and taut and true "from sea to shining sea." Into that tested warp, through the years, has been woven the woof that makes the heroic, the colorful epic of our country. It is of vital concern to every American that the warp hold —that it be kept stout and true— and also that there be in the woof beauty and artistry in harmony with the true spirit of America as the founding fathers and our pioneers dreamed it. Discussion and Activities 1. Why is the mere physical conquest of any land of slight or passing importance, unless along with it goes a spiritual and cultural conquest? Illustrate your answer with examples. 2. A. What facts can be given in proof of the statement that the pioneers of the West were comparatively young men and women? B. What have you to offer to substantiate the statement that many among them were artistic and cultured in their tastes? 3. Be ready with a stanza from some poem, or a paragraph of description from a novel to join other members in the class in reading aloud bits of literature that truthfully portray the pioneers. 4. A. Read together the poem "My Mother's Hand," also "'Another Lincoln," by Ann Woodbury Hafen. What, in essence, does the poet bring out with artistic touch in these creations? B. What other poem or literary sketch do you recall that pays tribute effectively to the mothers and fathers who pioneered the West? 5. Produce a copy of Arthur Chapman's poem "Out Where the West Begins," and have someone read it aloud for the class. References A Story to Tell, published by Sunday School and Primary Association. Hafen, Ann Woodbury: Quenched Fire and other poems, World Press, Denver, Colorado. Nibley, Preston: Brigham Young, the Man and His Work. Pyper, George D.: Romance of an Old Playhouse. Following: are a few wholesome novels which portray pioneering, principally in the Middle West. Daughter of the Middle Border, Hamlin Garland. A Lantern in Her Hand, Bess Streeter Aldrich. Giants in the Earth, Ole Rolvaag. So Big, Edna Ferber. Stories collected by the Daughters of Utah Pioneers are also helpful in giving firsthand pictures of the early settlement of the West. 854 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1946 LESSON DEPARTMENT 855 Optional Lessons in Lieu of Literature The Gospel as a Way of Life Lesson 6—Laying on of Hands for the Gift of the Holy Ghost Elder T. Edgar Lyon For Tuesday, March 18, 1947 LATTER day Saint theology differs greatly from all other Christian interpretations of the Godhead, because of its teaching concerning the personalities that constitute this trinity. In regard to the Holy Ghost, our teaching is different and more positive than others. Most confessing Christians believe that the Holy Ghost is nothing more than a spirit that is part of the Eternal God, radiating from him in much the same way that light and heat are radiated from a central source of supply. Latter-day revelation has given us the true conception. Verses twenty-two and twenty-three of section 130 in the Doctrine and Covenants instruct us as follows: The Father has a body of flesh and bones as tangible as man's; the Son also; but the Holy Ghost has not a body of flesh and bones, but is a personage of Spirit. Were it not so, the Holy Ghost could not dwell in us. A man may receive the Holy Ghost, and it may descend upon him and not tarry with him. This scripture teaches specifically that the Holy Ghost is a personage separate from either the Father or the Son, being without a tangible body, yet possessed of individuality and personality, and having the ability to dwell within a mortal soul. However, this indwelling may be either temporary or permanent, according to the worthiness of the person, the needs of the person, or the manner in which it was _bestowed upon him. If bestowed according to the prescribed rules of the Church, the person receives the gift of the Holy Ghost, which should be a lasting, vital part of his life and his faith, The Prophet Joseph Smith explained this in a statement that has become a classic description of the difference between the gift of the Holy Ghost that one receives at confirmation, and the temporary descent that the Holy Ghost may make on special occasions. There is a difference between the Holy Ghost and the gift of the Holy Ghost. Cornelius received the Holy Ghost before he was baptized, which was the convincing power of God unto him of the truth of the Gospel, but he could not receive the gift of the Holy Ghost until after he was baptized. Had he not taken this sign or ordinance upon him, the Holy Ghost which convinced him of the truth of God, would have left him. Until he obeyed these ordinances and received the gift of the Holy Ghost, by the laying on of hands, according to the order of God, he could not have healed the sick or commanded an evil spirit to come out of a man, and it obey him; for the spirits might say unto him, as they did to the sons of Sceva: "Paul we know and Jesus we know, but 856 who are ye?" (Teachings of the Prophet Joseph Smith, page 199). It is necessary to distinguish between the Holy Ghost and the divine spirit that is to be found everywhere on earth among mortals of all races, creeds, and colors. President Joseph F. Smith very pointedly explained this difference: It is not the Holy Ghost who in person lighteth every man who is bom into the world, but it is the light of Christ, the Spirit of Truth, which proceeds from the source of intelligence, which permeates all nature, which lighteth every man and fills the immensity of space. You may call it the Spirit of God, you may call it the influence of God's intelligence, you may call it the substance of his power, no matter what it is called, it is the spirit of intelligence that permeates the universe and gives to the spirits of men understanding (Gospel Doctrine, pp. 73-74). What then, is the function of the Holy Ghost that is conferred upon us as a gift at the time of confirmation? It gives to those receiving the gift, if they are faithful, the nght to the companionship of the Holy Ghost. It is also the completion of the symbolic representation of a rebirth that is part of the acceptance of the gospel of Jesus Christ. When John the Baptist appeared in the towns and villages of Judea, he preached a powerful message of repentance, calling upon the people to straighten out their crooked ways of living and bring forth the fruits of righteous living. Then, when this had been done, he urged them to accept baptism by immersion that symbolized the washing away of sins and the burial of the old, sinful self. John did not end his work with the accomplishment of the ordinance of baptism. He stressed the fact that there must still be a reRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1946 birth by the Spirit, to complete the _act of regeneration to a new life. He said:. I baptize with water: but there standeth one among you whom ye know not; He it is, who coming after me is preferred before me, whose shoe's latchet I am not worthy to unloose.... The next day John seeth Jesus coming unto him, and saith, Behold the Lamb of God, which taketh away the sin of the world. This is he of whom I said, After me cometh a man which is preferred before me: for he was before me. And I knew him not: but that he should be made manifest to Israel, therefore am I come baptizing with water.... I saw the Spint descending from heaven like a dove, and it abode upon him. And I knew him not: but he that sent me to baptize with water, the same said unto me, Upon whom thou shalt see the Spirit descending, and remaining on him, the same is he which baptizeth with the Holy Ghost (John 1:26-33). The elderly gentleman referred to in lesson five who did not count the first forty-five years of his life, had fully caught the significance of this idea that John was preaching. Jesus told Nicodemus that unless a person were born again "of water and of the Spirit, he cannot enter into the kingdom of God" (John 3:5). This idea of the rebirth to a newness of life through water baptism and the reception of the Holy Ghost became the fundamental message of the Christian Church in its public preaching. After having completed a "Bath of Regeneration," as some have called baptism, our elderly friend had had hands laid upon him. The conferring of the Holy Ghost upon him had, in his estimation, completed his rebirth as much as the entrance of his spirit into his body at physical birth had given him mortal existence. Jesus spoke of the Holy Ghost as LESSON DEPARTMENT a "Comforter." On_ several occasions he informed his apostles that, following his departure from them, they should be comforted in his absence by the Spirit that would be sent them from the presence of the Father. As the years passed and these apostles went into the world to proclaim the good tidings of the gospel, they were literally comforted by the Holy Ghost. It gave to them the comforting testimony of the reality of the cause for which they were forced to suffer and endure opposition and hardships (see Acts 2:1-4; I Cor. 2:9-16). Another function of the Holy Ghost is to lead those who receive it in paths of truth. If one lives in accordance with gospel teachings, loves his neighbor, and serves God, the guarantee is given that the Holy Ghost will be a constant companion. If this companionship is enjoyed, truth will always be discernible, and error will have no power over the mind. Evil, which is the embodiment of error, will be shunned, and good will be chosen in its place. The Savior promised his apostles that the Comforter should act as their inspirer, giving to them words to speak as occasion arose, recalling to their memory needful experiences and ideals (John 14:26). He promised it would make them equal to every occasion that might arise. Furthermore, he promised them that it would serve as the spirit of revelation, that they might speak revealed truths and give utterance to prophetic teachings. There remains yet another function of the Holy Ghost. It has the power of aiding in the acquisition of the spiritual gifts of God. We cannot all be apostles or prophets or 857 stake presidents or bishops or hold other offices of trust. But each Latter-day Saint can diligently seek to gain the promised spiritual gifts. Various passages of scripture describe them as the virtues of patience, forgiveness, humility, longsuffering, kindness, meekness, control of the tongue, pure thoughts, courage in the face of trial or disappointment, faith in the gospel and the atonement, chastity, service to fellow men and unselfishness. Without the acquisition of these qualities, the Christian character is deficient. The ordinance by which the Holy Ghost is conferred upon the individual is commonly known as "the laying on of hands," although this procedure is also used for ordinations to the Priesthood, for patriarchal blessings, and when one is set apart for a specific office or calling within the Church. Accompanying the laying on of hands by those authorized to confer the Holy Ghost, the following words are spoken: "In the name of the Lord Jesus Christ receive ye the Holy Ghost." Only those bearing the Melchizedek Priesthood have authority to officiate in the laying on of hands. Scriptural evidence is available, indicating that only such authorized bestowal has been recognized. In Acts 19:1-6, there is an account that is illustrative of this necessary power. Arriving at Ephesus on his missionary travels, the Apostle Paul found a group of about twelve professing Christians, who had_undergone some type of baptism. Paul inquired if the Holy Ghost had been conferred upon them, to which they replied that they had never heard that there was such a thing. Paul instructed them more fully, came to the conclusion that their baptism had apparently been performed by someone who was not divinely authorized, and rebaptized them. Then he laid his hands upon them and conferred the Holy Ghost upon them, with miraculous results. The eighth chapter of Acts likewise contains evidence of the practice of the laying on of hands. A sorcerer or magician, having observed Peter and John confer the Holy Ghost through the laying on of hands, offered the apostles a sum of money if they would grant him the gift to lay on hands for the bestowal of the divine power (see Acts 8:9-24). Discussion and Activity Problems 1. Name as many functions as you can that are ascribed to the Holy Ghost. 2. In what sense was the Holy Ghost that fell upon Cornelius and his associates (see Acts 10:34-48) different from the Holy Ghost that was given to you following your baptism? 3. What is the value of the Holy Ghost in our religious thinking and daily living? 4. Have a class member either read or relate the material found in the second chapter of Moroni, concerning the bestowal of the Holy Ghost by the Nephite twelve. 5. In preparation for the discussion period, stress the part that the Holy Ghost should play in the development of Christian conduct. References Smith, Pres. Joseph F.: Gospel Doctrine, PP- 73-755 Smith, Joseph Fielding: The Way to Perfection, pp. 190-193. Teachings of the Prophet Joseph Smith, (compiled by Joseph Fielding Smith), pp. 198, 199, 242. Talmage, James E.: Articles of Faith, pp. 157-168. Talmage, James E.: Vitality of Mormonism, pp. 96-99. Widtsoe, John A.: A Rational Theology, pp. 68, 72-74. >< Social Science—The Family in the Gospel Plan Lesson 5—Importance of Religious Instruction in the Home Social Science Committee, Leone O. Jacobs, Chairman For Tuesday, March 25, 1947 RELIGION should be a part of every life. "Man does not live by bread alone." 'There are other hungers and other needs than the purely physical. Religion is as necessary to the soul as food and drink to the body. An authority on child welfare has said: What causes young people to commit crimes is the poverty of the spirit, a spiritual starvation, and we who, as a people, reared children on that stinted ration must acknowledge the error and make haste to amend it—in home and school and society. Human beings are complex creatures, and the wisest of men know little about their inner selves. But of one thing, the dullest among us are certain. Man is a creature of spirit and body. One part cannot thrive without the support of the other. If either is ignored, both suffer. In the last quarter century the 858 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE-—-DECEMBER 1946 LESSON DEPARTMENT spiritual growth of children has been rather neglected. We should set about remedying the matter without quibbling. President Grant has said: I have heard men and women say that they were going to let their sons and daughters grow to maturity before they sought to teach them the principles of the gospel, that they were not going to cram the gospel down them in their childhood, before they were able to comprehend it.... The Lord has said it is our duty to teach our children in their youth.... It is folly to imagine that our children will grow up with a knowledge of the gospel without teaching (Gospel Standards, page 155). Parents would not think of saying, "I will not teach my child obedience, honesty or virtue, but will wait until he is grown and let him then choose for himself whether or not he wishes to live such principles." It is just as unwise to let a child grow up bereft of religious education and expect him to acquire it later. By the time a child is grown, his character is already formed. When he is mature it is usually too late to introduce to him a new phase of life. Most likely a child who has grown up with no religious background will never choose a religion by himself. His life having developed thus far without spiritual training, he may never see a need for it later. Importance of Parental Example As in the training of children along other lines, the example set in religious training by the parents is of prime importance. It is unusual for a child to seek religion if his parents have not shown interest or activity in this regard. President Joseph F. Smith said: 859 It does not need argument to convince our minds that our children will be just about what we make them. They are born without knowledge or understanding— the most helpless creatures of the animal creation born into the world.. And the child will be largely what its environment and its parents and teachers make it (Gospel Doctrine, page 367). The Responsibility of Parents As Latter-day Saint parents, we are charged with a sacred responsibility to teach our children the gospel. From the Doctrine and Cove- 'nants 68:25, 28, we read: And again, inasmuch as parents have children in Zion, or in any of her stakes which are organized, that teach them not to understand the doctrine of repentance, faith in Christ the Son of the living God, and of baptism and the gift of the Holy Ghost by the laying on of the hands, when eight years old, the sin be upon the heads of the parents.... And they shall also teach their children to pray, and to walk uprightly before the Lord. As President Joseph F'. Smith said: One of the most important duties devolving upon the Latter-day Saints is the proper training and rearing of their children in the faith of the gospel. The gospel is the greatest thing in all the world. There is nothing to compare with it. The possessions of this earth are of no consequence when compared with the blessings of the gospel. Naked we came into the world, and naked we will go out of the world, so far as earthly things are concerned; for we must leave them behind; but the eternal possessions which are ours through obedience to the gospel of Jesus Christ do not perish (Gospel Doctrine, page 392). Parents sometimes suppose that if, they send or take their children to" Sunday School, Primary, and to the Mutual Improvement Association, they have fulfilled their obligations concerning gospel training. Far too many tisk their children's spintual guidance to chance, or to others rather than to themselves, and think that organizations suffice for religious training. Our temporal bodies would soon become emaciated, if we fed them only once a week, or twice, as some of us are in the habit of feeding our spiritual and religious bodies.... No; on the other hand, this should be done every day, and in the home, by precept, teaching and example Spend ten minutes in reading a chapter from the words of the Lord in the Bible, the Book of Mormon, the Doctrine and Covenants, before you retire, or before you go to your daily toil. Feed your spiritual selves at home, as well as in public places (Gospel Doctrine, page 377). Nothing can take the place of religious instruction in the home. Teachings of the auxiliary organizations only augment and supplement. The foundation, the groundwork, must be given in the home. Habit can be a great aid in any endeavor. People remark, "There doesn't seem to be any time for family reading or teaching. How can we find time to give our children religious training? 'They are never at home at the same time." There are two solutions to this problem. The first is: Begin teaching your children while they are still small, when they are at home the greater part of the time, and make it your first duty to be at home with them to give them what they should have. The second solution lies in appointing a regular time, most convenient to all. Fifteen minutes will perhaps be enough. Keep to the schedule. Perhaps dinner could be set a little, early and fifteen minutes immediately afterward reserved for reading. Even if every member of the family could not be in attendance every evening, they could participate most of the time. Habit is the surest assurance of success. The benefit to be derived from even a fifteen minute period of gospel study each day cannot be estimated. What to Teach What should be included in this religious instruction? President Joseph F. Smith said: It is the duty of Latter-day Saints to teach their children the truth, to bring them up in the way they should go, to teach them the first principles of the gospel, the necessity of baptism for the remission of sins, and for membership in the Church of Christ;... Necessity of receiving the gift of the Holy Ghost by the laying on of hands, which will lead them into all truth. Teach your children the love of God, teach them to love the principles of the gospel of Jesus Christ. Teach them to love their fellow men, and especially to love their fellow members in the Church, that they may be true to their fellowship with the people of God. Teach them to honor the Priesthood, to honor the authority that God has bestowed upon his Church for the proper government of his Church.... Teach them that the Prophet Joseph Smith had restored to him the Priesthood that was held by Peter and James and John, who were ordained under the hands of the Savior himself.... Teach your children to respect their bishops and the teachers that come to their homes to teach them. Teach your children to respect old age, gray hairs, and feeble frames. Teach them to venerate and to hold in honorable remembrance their parents, and to help all those who are helpless and needy. Teach your children to honor the law of God and the law of the state and the law of our country. Teach them to respect and hold in honor those who are chosen by the people to stand at their head and execute justice and administer the law. Teach them to be loyal to their country, loyal to righteousness and uprightness and honor.... 860 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1946 LESSON DEPARTMENT Children should be taught early in life that death is really a necessity as well as a blessing, and that we would not and could not be satisfied and supremely happy without it.... No explanation of death to a child's mind can anywhere be found that is more simple and convincing than is the death of our Master, connected as it is and ever must be with the glorious resurrection (Gospel Doctrine, pp. 364, 365, 366). Children should be prepared to meet the issues of life before they come face to face with them. They should be prepared for courtship, for marriage in the temple, for the duties of parenthood. Young people going to attend universities should be taught to evaluate correctly the courses of study offered them. "Latter-day Saints accept every scientific fact, but rate theories based upon the facts as human explanations of the facts, likely to change as new facts appear.... Any theory that leaves out God as a personal, purposeful Being, and accepts chance as a first cause, cannot be accepted by Latter-day Saints." (See Widtsoe's Evidences and Reconciliations, PP- 154, 155.) That which is demonstrated, we accept with joy, but vain philosophy, human theoty and mere speculations of men we do not accept, nor do we adopt anything contrary to divine revelation or to good common sense, but everything that tends to right conduct, that harmonizes with sound motality and increases faith in Deity, finds favor with us, no matter where it may be found (Gospel Doctrine, page 48). Home Evenings Church authorities advise that we make a practice of having a weekly "home evening," wherein our families may get together to discuss family affairs, study the gospel and, in general, enjoy each other's society. The home has in many cases ceased to be the center of attraction as it used to be, and members of the family often have so many outside interests that they scarcely see each other. A return to a more simple routine is advisable. The successful home evening would be a stride in this direction. Here again it is wisdom to begin eatly. When the children are small, conditions are ideal for setting the home evening habit» There are not many demands on the time of small children, the parents have them to themselves, and the home evening can be an occasion to be anticipated. It should be planned so that it is such. Sometimes there might be group singing around the piano, retold or reread stories, appropriate for the children, and a short discussion on proper conduct and gospel teaching. This is an excellent opportunity to teach the gospel a little at a time. If the program is varied, it will have greater appeal. Family problems might be discussed, with all old enough voicing opinions. Then games might be introduced and refreshments served. Members of the family might take turns planning the program. This would give the children a feeling of importance and encourage initiative, and the one in charge of the evening should be complimented upon the success of the evening. When the children are older, the home evening should still be continued. An evening should be chosen when most members will be at home, but if one or another cannot be in attendance, the home evening should be held anyway. All will be able to be present at least on some of the evenings, and will receive great benefit from the family gatherings. Table tennis, part singing, topics of interest in world affairs, or any other activity might be introduced to foster a close association of members of the family. Part of the time, however, should be devoted to reading or discussion of gospel principles. The maxim "Where there's a will there's a way," is very applicable to the success of the home evening project. If the will to put it over is there, it can certainly be worked out satisfactorily. Any program which becomes a fixed routine is accepted. When children are grown, they will look back on the weekly home evenings as being some of their most treasured memories—times of nearness and dearness to each other. Questions for Discussion 1. Of how much importance is religious training in the home? Discuss. 2. What is the fallacy in letting children grow up and then choose the religion they wish? 3. What is the responsibility of parents in regard to religious instruction? Have someone read Doctrine and Covenants 68: 25-29. 4. What part do the auxilianes play in gospel training? 5- What constitutes a successful "home evening'? Urge Relief Society sisters to begin home evenings among their respective families. 6. Why should the home evening be inaugurated when the children are young? 7. Have members tell of happy and profitable home evenings they have experienced. 8. A short demonstration might be given of a successful home evening program. References Doctrine and Covenants, 68:25-29. Grant, President Heber J.: Gospel Standards, "Women, Marriage and Family Life," page 155. Smith, President Joseph F.: Gospel Doctrine, "Marriage, the Home and Family" PP. 364-392. Widtsoe, John A.: Evidences and Reconciliaticns, "The Doctrine of Evolution," pp. 154, 155. NOT COMFORTLESS Beatrice K. Ekman In a manger, on the fragrant hay, She laid her newborn Son, Unmindful that his destined way To Calvary would run. My son was born on a costly bed; I cradled him in down; He lies where crosses mark the dead In the fields of an alien town. She who had wept at Calvary Beheld the risen Lord, And IJ, when heartbreak came to me, Found comfort in his word. 862 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1946 CHRISTMAS CARDS Dorothy J]. Roberts Do not say that this is folly, These paper whimsies wreathed with holly. From deep within some dreamer's brain, The minarets arise again; Starlight silvers the arching neck Of a laden camel; here a fleck Of mica glitters on the snow Of some beloved long ago; And here a piquant spotted fawn Is born from a pen to caper on A sapphire hill; and there a sleigh Revives a far-off yesterday; An amber moon pierced by a steeple; The dreamer's land, the dreamer's people! A Gift of Increasing. Valuc L. D. S. Business training opens the way for a successful career... It fosters self-reliance... And pays rich dividends throughout life. New classes starting January 6, day and evening—in shorthand, typewriting, bookkeeping, business administration, and many other subjects. Write or call for free bulletin L. D. S$. BUSINESS COLLEGE 70 North Main Telephone 3-2765 Salt Lake City 1, Utah Page 863 L. D. S. HOME Members of SOCIAL SERVICE classes for 1946-47 will find the official reference book, FAMILY ETERNAL, intensely interesting. Here is information needed in every home—and of special importance to those planning future homes. Here are typical headings: @ SEEKING A COMPANION @ THOSE WHO MARRY @ FAMILY AND THE CHURCH @ FOR ALL ETERNITY There are few gifts so precious as good books. For prompt service, fill out the coupon below. Ask for complete book list. BOOKCRAFT 1186 S. Main Salt Lake City 4, Utah FILL OUT AND MAIL THIS COUPON Gwe oe Christmas Few other gifts carry with them the satisfaction that attends the giving and receiving of a good book. For any L. D. S. BOOK Write EZRA L. MARLER Books by Mail P. ©. Box 267 Salt Lake City, Utah STANDARD PRICES Prompt, Personal Service Promised Keep a price list of L. D. S. Books handy in your home. It's yours for the asking. PPPLEL LL OLPI LED LL PLC LL OLE LOLOL OLOOD#S Page 864 BOOKCRAFT 1186 So. Main Salt Lake City 4, Utah Please send the books checked below: 0) Family Eternal $2.25 Roy A. West 0 To Whom It May Concern............$3.00 Marvin O. Ashton -] Thumbnail Sketch of Mormonism.. $1.00 "Marba C. Josephson (J Man and the Dragon....................$2.00 Dr. John A. Widtsoe DO Discourses of Wilford Woodruff..$2.50 Compiled by Dr. G. Homer Durham (1 Minute Sermons........................-....$1.00 Compiled by Albert L. Zobell, Jr. (CD Evidences and Reconciliations....$1.85 Dr. John A. Widtsoe OO His Many Mansions........................$2.25 Rulon S. Howells 0 Prince of Ur $2.00 Susa Y. Gates—Leah D. Widtsoe 0 Sagebrush and Wagonwheels....$2.00 Edna S. Dustin (0 Theirs Is the Kingdom....................$2.00 Wendell J. Ashton 0 The Story of Jesus......................$1.25 Eliza R. Snow Welcome, Youth! With an increased faculty and expanded physical facilities, Brigham Young University is accommodating its largest enrollment in history, and is making preparation for additional students in the Winter and Spring quarters. WINTER QUARTER January 6 to March 21 New Students Should Apply Early to ADMISSIONS COMMITTEE BRIGHAM YOUNG UNIVERSITY Provo, Utah MUSTC Specially Suitable for Reliof Soctety MY REDEEMER LIVES (Gates).....18 I WILL EXALT THEE, O LORD (arms) eee,15 O LORD MOST HOLY (Franck).15 HOLY REDEEMER (Marchelli).....15 PEACE I LEAVE WITH YOU (Roberts) 23RD PSALM (Schubert).............15 IN THY FORM (Madsen)............ 10 Above numbers in octavo. S. S. A. Postage additional. We specialize in L. D. S. Church music. Also carry large stock for schools and home use. Dealers in Steinway and Lester pianos, band and orchestra instruments, —s machines, records and musicians' supplies. DAYNES MUSIC Cd. We solicit your patronage poene GOSPEL KINGDOM" coreg asacidome 72. "THE GOSPEL THROUGH THE AGES" Milton R. Hunter... A eee $1.30 "GOSPEL DOCTRINE" $2 50 "TEACHINGS OF THE PROPHET JOSEPH SMITH" $2 25 "THE WAY TO PERFECTION" Joseph Fielding Smith $1.50 DISCOURSES OF WILFORD WOODRUFF $2.50 "GOSPEL STANDARDS" President Heber J. Grant.............. BOOKS You'll Need for Reference Upon the following titles are based many important parts of the 1946-47 Relief Society Lesson Course: DESERET BOOK COMPANY THE BOOK CENTER OF THE INTERMOUNTAIN WEST 44 East South Temple P. O. Box 958 Salt Lake City 10, Utah Enclosed is $............---...-.----« Send the titles as checked above. I (TO erp aa Pir ge yo. Toca onc a rm "BRIGHAM YOUNG, THE MAN AND HIS — Preston Nibley......... A "ESSENTIALS IN CHURCH HISTORY" Joseph Fielding Smith..... "ARTICLES OF eseeell James E. Talmage... Ie "EVIDENCES AND ee John A. Widtsoe... A "DISCOURSES OF BRIGHAM YOUNG" "RESTORATION OF ALL THINGS" Joseph Fielding Smith... $2.90 $2.00 $1.25 $1.85 $2.50 $1.75 When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine 45-47 S. Main St. President Joseph F. Smith............ Joseph Fielding Smith...........0........ Salt Lake City 1 ®. the Book the World Loves Best UTHORIZED King James Version THE Mational pisic press Publishers of Quality Bibles Since 1863 - At Your Bookstore
