[Column 2]

Association of Utah was held April 7th, in the
Fourteenth Ward Assembly Hall; Pres. S. M.
Kimball presiding. Meeting was opened by
singing, "Come, come away," from the Wo-
man Suffrage song book. Prayer by Bathsheba
W. Smith and the exercises continued by sing-
ing.
	Electa Bullock, of Provo, read an "Allegory
on Woman's Rights," by Josiah Allen's Wife;
she also stated they had a manuscript paper
edited monthly.
	President Kimball stated that she wanted
the foundation laid for a grand convention in
the fall; read some questions that had been
prepared to be answered at the convention of
October 1892. Spoke of a committee to recom-
mend a course of study for the associations
throughout the Territory, but had found that
the circumstances in the various counties were
so different that it did not seem possible to
carry the same course out in all.
	Lucy A. Smith, Farmington, read a few of
her ideas on the suffrage question which were
listened to with rapt attention.
	Jane S. Richards thought that if woman's
suffrage was good for a few it was good for all,
and believed that when the time came to share
the benefits of it all would be anxious to do so.
	President Kimball spoke of the great ad-
vantage that would be derived from having a
hall where women could go,and where literature
could be obtained. A call from the stand was
made for a representative from Emery county
and was responded to by Josie Childs. Meet-
ings in that county had not been held for some
time. Women should read, for that was the
best way to gain knowledge. Emily Richards
hoped President Kimball would be preserved
twenty-five years to labor in the cause, for she
had the courage to say what she thought.
(Applause.) President Joseph Smith had
turned the key for Women in this dispensation;
it was six years after this that women of the
nation roused themselves in endeavoring to ob-
tain their rights.
	Margaret Mitchell and Caroline E. Dye
made a few remarks upon the suffrage ques-
tion. Elmina S. Taylor made a stirring speech
and stated she had never failed to cast her vote
when she had the privilege.
	Mattie Barrus, of Wyoming, being in the
congregation, wished to add words of encour-
agement. Had voted there, also held office,
and had seen public offices filled by women
who fulfilled their duties much more credit-
ably than many men had, who occupied those
offices previous to the women.
	Elizabeth Howard, president of Salt Lake
County, Joanna Patten, of Provo, and Dr. E.
S. Barney spoke briefly on the suffrage ques-
tion.
	Mrs. Lapish of American Fork, was anxious
for Sarah M. Kimball, the Susan B. Anthony
of Utah, and other ladies to visit the associa-
tion in her district, for it would do much to-
wards stirring the subject up.
	Meeting then adjourned.
		ADAH CROXALL, Secretary.

