AMERICAN FORK W. S. A.
	Dear Editor: If you will give us a little space
in the Utah woman's paper I will try and
give your readers a little knowledge how the
suffrage cause is prospering here. We have a
paid up membership of one hundred and eleven
members. We hold meetings the last Friday
in each month in the Meeting House, by kind-
ness of Bishop Halliday. Meetings are fairly
attended; we have a Civil Government class of
eighteen enrolled students. Visiting Suffrage
members who take no part in the exercises but
who are interested listeners, three to eight.
Our class is becoming very interesting, and
much honor is due Mrs. Ellen Jakeman of
Provo, who kindly offered to instruct these
classes. We also petitioned the Am. Fork City
Council for the use of City Hall for W. S. civil
government class. Our petition was granted
unanimously. Mayor Cunningham instructed
the Sheriff to have a fire made in the Hall
and have it lighted every Monday evening for
the use of the Am. Fork W. S. civil govern-
ment class. Now we feel very proud and ap-
preciate the magnanimity of such men and it is
for such men we would vote to keep in office
who can accord to women such privileges; surely
the movement for equal rights of women is
advancing steadily. We have also made some
praiseworthy appropriations to the amount of
seventy-five dollars; we have a small bank
account of sixty dollars, and in the Treasury
nine dollars for incidental expenses we have
been very successful socially and financially
in giving entertainments; the association has 
property on hand to the amount of a little
over thirty dollars. I will honorably mention
our national flag, twelve feet long, with golden
star for Wyoming upon it, and as each State
gives to woman her emancipation we shall
make the stars golden, until the blue field
shall be covered with the grand galaxy of
golden States. We have the life size pictures
of E. C. Stanton, Susan B. Anthony and the
Susan B. Anthony of Utah, Sarah M. Kimball,
all in gilt frames, with other paraphernalia
for suffrage occasions. We have international
council of women for 1888 and 1891 which we
loan to members on time. We have fifty-one
subscribers to WOMAN'S EXPONENT, Woman's


Tribune. Women's Column, and Woman's
Business Journal. Also in looking over the tax
list we find in Am. Fork precinct one hundred
and nineteen Women who own property to the
amount of sixty-eight thousand dollars on
which they pay taxes, this is taxation and no
representation. Praying that women will
never quit nor get weary in the suffrage cause
until they are both heard and possess the great-
est boon ever given to humanity—the ballot.
	Yours for suffrage.
		HANNAH S. LAPISH, President.


