IN RURAL ENGLAND.

XII.
	Things took their natural course after the
funeral; the guests departed, reluctantly per-
haps, but as no encouragement was offered
them to prolong their visit, it was the only
alternative. The old house-keeper had made
them quite uncomfortable, and "spoken her
mind,” as she called it on several occasions,
and Miss Conway felt she had no right to ex-
tend hospitality beyond what seemed a proper
limit, and so the house was cleared at last of
all except the cousins and servants.
	The spring was opening and in the beauti-
ful country places in England the rural scen-
ery is intensely charming; the birds were tril-
ling their highest, sweetest notes in the grand
old trees, and singing on the slenderest boughs,
of the graceful tall bushes, and nature seemed
in its most smiling mood. The grounds about
the house were sort of uncultivated and neglect-
ed, but an admirer of wild and picturesque
landscapes, might revel fancy-free in the de-
lightful solitude offered by the groves and 
shady lanes. Lady Anna was glad to wander
about these secluded haunts and indulge in
expectant reveries of her absent lover, whom
she was constantly thinking would suddenly
surprise her, when rambling alone, as he had
done in the days of their first acquaintance.
	Jane was inclined to be seriously meditative;
she could not help wondering what would hap-
pen next—so many strange events had trans-
pired, and more seemed likely to be in the near
future; for the young man mentioned in the
will was sure to be forthcoming, as the baronet
had provided that he should live in England
and take his name. She could scarcely credit
his being her uncle’s own son, and would fain
believe it was the orphan son of some dear
friend that he felt under obligations to serve.
Anna had not expressed herself fully upon the
matter, though her cousin had several times
tried to learn how she felt about the name.
	One beautiful morning in April the Dr.
overtook Miss Conway as she was wandering
leisurely along one of the many fragrant lanes
near the grounds, and in a very stormy fashion
urged her to accept him as an acknowledged
suitor, even if she had not yet made up her
mind to marry him. The girl was greatly in ,
need of sympathy and of advice; she was al-
most as lonely with her cousin as if she had
been quite left to herself, for Anna was so ab-
sorbed in her love affairs that she could think
of little else; and therefore Jane was more eas-
ily persuaded to allow Dr. Bland to come reg-
ularly to the house. It will be a change at
least from the sameness of our present life,

