[Column 1]
I rejoice in the Lord .’’Sister Richards made some
remarks upon the rights and privileges of the
sisters and their duty in regard to administering
to the sick and rebuking disease and prayed the 
peace and blessing of God to rest upon the con-
gregation.
	Pres. M. I. Horne rejoiced to see so many
noble women that were interested in the work of
the Relief Society, felt to bless them, those that
had come from a distance hoped they would take
home the spirit of the Conference and diffuse it
among those with whom they were associated,
that the good seed might be sown among the 
sisters who were not able to attend the Confer-
ence; she felt interested in the subject of home-
industries, thought we should exert ourselves to
be more self-sustaining; that we were living in an
important day, when the prophecies of the 
Scriptures and of Joseph were being fulfilled and 
we needed great wisdom; the teachers have a re-
sponsible position, and needed to be prayerful
and have the spirit of the Lord; spoke eloquently
and briefly upon many subjects; the increase of 
wickedness in our midst, the need to watch over
our children and young people, the governing
power and restraining influences, and gave much
good advice to the sisters and the young people.
	Pres. B. W. Smith, spoke of her desire that the
young women should come forward and prepare
themselves to take the places of the older sisters
when they pass away. Said there are 23 Stakes 
that have not paid into the Deseret Hospital fund
we should take this into consideration and not
fail in this; it is a duty we have to perform; to
have a place for the sick and afflicted; we must 
do our part and keep it up; and the EXPONENT
we must have by us; it is a necessity to the Relief
Society; there are many good papers, but the 
EXPONENT is my choice; it contains our record
and we’ll be proud of it some day. I feel as 
Sister Zina said, we ought to have two or three
days for our meetings; we are a host to do good,
I am proud of my sisters and of their  labors. I 
want to do all the good I can and as little harm,
I pray God to bless us all.
	Sister E. B. Wells spoke briefly upon the
Jubilee celebration its greatness, the immense
country over which it extended, the importance
of the organization, the great results already at-
tained and the promises for the future, the ad-
vancement made by women in all lands, the
prejudices being removed, and the grand oppor-
tunities for improvement, and gave some explana-
tions in reference to the history to be compiled,
and also concerning the storing of grain by wo-
men against a day of need.
	Pres. Young spoke in reference to the history
to be prepared of the Relief Society and nomi-
nated the following Committee whose names were 
submitted and voted upon by the assembly, Sarah
M. Kimball, E. B. Wells, Lula Greene Richards,
Romania B. Pratt, Annie Wells Cannon, Augusta
J. Crocheron.
	Sister Zina said the officers and teachers should
be women of God, we expect our sisters to be
brave in the future as they have been in the past,
humble obedience to the principles of the Gospel
makes us better wives and better mothers and 
better prepared to enter into the presence of God;
as soon as we boast we separate the link that
binds us; like breaking the kite string, there is 
nothing to guide it and it falls or floats away, may
we be preserved and our children with all that
the Lord has given us we have everything to
make us happy.
	Assistant Secretary R. B. Pratt read the totals
of the Relief Society report for the last six months
after which there were a few words of counsel
and comfort from Sister Jane S. Richards, and S.
M. Kimball presented the names of the officers of
the Central Board to be voted upon.
	Zina D. H. Young, President, Jane S. Richards
and Bathsheba W. Smith, Counselors, Sarah M

