[Column 2]
thought the young woman, and so it proved;
the visits were pleasant interchanges of ideas
and sentiments, and the time passed swiftly
by, and they grew into favor with each other.
The lawyer came with news from the young
stranger, and arranged with the young ladies
about suitable apartments being made ready
for him; and although it was such a decided
change to think of having a man in the house, 
yet it was inevitable, and they were rather glad
than otherwise. All sorts of conjectures were
flying about, as to who and what he was and
‘‘Dame Rumor’’ was busy, but of this the
young ladies knew very little as they took no
part in society of the country round about
except those living on their own estate, who
were only poor working people, and though
they chatted among themselves of the doings
up at the castle and did not spare the charac-
ter of the late master, yet the young ladies
were not aware of how the baronet was being
abused by those to whom they dispensed their
bounties, and who thrived off the estate. Some-
times the housekeeper would pour out a volley
of gossip to lady Anna’s maid and occasionally,
when waiting upon her young mistress, she
would make bold to repeat an item or two, and
though usually Lady Anna manifested the
utmost indifference, it happened once or twice
that she dropped a word which gave “Timmins”
courage to go on. ‘‘It was from old Ma’am
Farrow we got it,” she explained one night
when brushing her lady’s hair before retiring;
she pretends to know all about the doings
here in days gone by, and says as how there
used to be regular rioting here in the hunting
time, and men, (gentlemen my lady,) had balls
and parties when you was a child, and there
was a sight o’ feasting and that, and carriages
comin’ from a distance and nobody knows who
was in them.” This set the young lady to think-
ing and she determined to tell her cousin Jane,
for though she made no sort of reply to the
maid, except to tell her not “to heed gossip,
or repeat scandal,” yet it had made her feel
very unpleasant, and she lost no time in repeat-
ing all she had gathered to Jane, who had also
seen enough to convince her that the peasantry
were anything but respectful of her uncle’s
memory. She dreaded the arrival of the young
stranger just when these idle stories were float-
ing about in the air as it were, but it was not
possible to avert nor even to postpone his com-
ing, if she wanted to, and she was not sure
things would be better even if she could suc-
ceed in doing so.
	Maitland Walton had written several times
to his betrothed, or so she considered herself—
but she had not seen him, and her heart was
sad and aching for his coming, but affairs were
culminating rapidly towards a climax, not-
withstanding the monotony at the old mansion.
	Dr. Bland was winning his way pretty suc-
cessfully in the affections of Miss Conway; she
was not one likely to fall in love at first sight,
but time and the certainty of uprightness and
sterling integrity were traits she admired in
men, and one she could look up to as her su- 
perior was what she needed. Strength of char-
acter she possessed herself in a large degree,
and a conscientiousness that precluded any pos-
sibility of her bestowing her friendship even,
upon an unworthy man; but she could find-no
fault with Dr. Bland; the more intimately she
knew him the nobler he appeared, and he was
now tolerably sure of securing her hand in
marriage and with it her true heart. Jane
had weighed the matter carefully and had de-
cided that it would be the best for her cousin
to have such protection as Dr. Bland, a mar-
ried man could give; for with her impulsive
temperament there would be more or less dan-
ger, and a young man in the house who might
consider himself at least equal in au-
thority if not even more, would be a constant
terror to such a sensitive nature as Anna’s. 

[Column 3]
	Then there was always the fear of interference
from Maitland Walton, and sometimes in view
of these things Jane wondered if she were
really growing fond of the Dr. or was it only
to better her present condition and relieve
her of the embarrassment that threatened the
future welfare of the household; and indeed it
was not strange that she queried thus. But
circumstances decided speedily what might
have taken a much longer time to settle. Anna
had at last seen her lover and he had confided
to her the cause of his absenting himself from
the castle. Reports had reached his mother
that the baronet had a son abroad, who was
coming into possession, that there had been a
secret marriage and afterwards a separation,
and much more;indiscreetly in her vexation she
had told all this to Maitland, and vowed that
he should never marry the daughter of such an
unprincipled villain. She regretted afterwards,
but her pride was wounded, and she gave vent
to a feeling of jealousy, unwarrantable in a
woman of her years and experience. Henry
Walton had brought the news from London
and had taunted his wife with it, half in jest,
and half seriously, possibly to see if she had
any lingering affection left for his rival; and
the man who had as he believed thrown his
life away because of his early disappointment.
In her anger she had forbidden her son any
further association with the girl he so ardent-
ly loved placing another barrier in the way of
his happiness; she would thus have ruined two
more lives had the fates not taken their destiny
in hand and summarily settled the matter.
	Anna flew to her cousin and told her all she
had heard; Lady Walton had watched Mait-
land but he had eluded her vigilance, disobey-
ed Her positive injunctions and had declared
that nothing should prevent the union when
he became master of his own inheritance; and
she had gladly consented for she could not live
without him, and why need they submit to
such tyranny. Jane reasoned and expostu-
lated and entreated her to listen, give her ex-
amples of such marriages, and the unhappiness
caused by disobedience to parental rule, but
the girl was inexorable, and the result was a
serious illness. Dr. Bland was summoned and
in his position as guardian and physician, Jane
felt he must know all, and it was a relief to
tell it to one who could not only sympathize
but had the wisdom to render aid in such ex-
tremity. He went to Lady Walton and told
her, for he seemed to comprehend the matter
after Jane had related the circumstance of Lady
Walton’s secret night visit, and her own con-
versation with her uncle subsequently he felt
he could consistently express his view of the
situation; he found her ladyship much agitated
for Maitland had informed his mother of his
visit to Anna and his intentions to keep his
promise of marriage to the girl. Lady Wal-
ton knew Dr. Bland’s reputation as a surgeon
and medical adviser and as Doctors are gener-
ally admitted to confidence, he had felt no re-
luctance in paying this visit; and was admitted
without delay upon sending a message to say
he had come as a physician on an important
errand. He was a man to whom any woman
might have entrusted her confidence without
fear of betrayal—this the lady saw at a glance,
he lost no time in telling her she was in the
wrong. Without in the least betraying his
knowledge of her own secret, he made her con-
scious of wrong and anxious to repair the
mischief she had done. Her love for Maitland
was the strongest sentiment she was capable of
and his future was her ambition. Dr. Bland
told her what a lovely disposition Lady Anna
possessed and how delicate her temperament—
that she needed love it was her only hope, per-
haps said he “from a false education by her
French governesses to whom she has been left
wholly in the past until her cousin took up her
abode there.'


“Her father lived much abroad I have been
told,” said her Ladyships though inadvert-,
ently? “Yes, and no,” replied the Dr. “he was
sometimes absent for months but never away
for any great length of time.” “One likes to
know what sort of family one is becoming
connected to, you must be aware Dr. Bland, I
shall have to meet all this in society,you snow
besides his father has not yet been apprised of
any serious relations between the young peo-
ple: he consented to let Maitland go to Italy,
last winter, after much entreaty on my part,
solely to satisfy me concerning his health.”
“Would you like me to speak to your husband
and inform him what has already taken place,
and how seriously the matter appears to me, or
will you undertake the mission?” “I scarcely
know what to do—his father will be offended,
he will say it has all come from my blind
idolatry, indulging the boy in every sort of
nonsense. I know how it will be I shall get
all the blame.”—“And can you not endure his
reproaches for the sake of making happy two
young innocent, beings like Miss Hilliard and
your own and only son?”


