 A TALENTED ENGLISH WOMAN.

	The visit of Miss Florence Balgarnie to our
City was quite a pleasant event, yet the ladies
who met her in Washington last year, and also
those who have heard her praises sounded, and
have read her speeches, were greatly disappointed
in not hearing her speak in public. We had
hoped that when she came we should hear her in
the large Tabernacle in Salt Lake City, or in the
Assembly Hall, but her stay was so brief, that it
was quite impossible to advertise a lecture, and
it would have been placing her at a disadvantage
to have urged it so hurriedly. Her voice is clear
as a sweet-toned bell and her manner in speaking
is simply perfect, so natural and unaffected. Her
language is eloquent and she speaks without notes
with the greatest ease and freedom. Altogether
she is a charming, young woman, and we cannot
help regretting that the Salt Lake people had not
the privilege of hearing her.
	It is true that we knew she was coming having
been informed by letter, but were not notified of
the exact time so as to be sufficiently sure, to ad-
vertise a lecture, besides not having her consent
which would have been positively essential.
	Miss Balgarnie speaks for the Liberal Associa-
tions, she styles herself a thorough-going Liberal
and her sympathies are all with the wage-earning
women of all countries, but her work lies with the
working-women of England,Scotland and Ireland.
She tells some very pathetic tales of their condi-
tion and how these Associations are helping them
to better themselves.
	Miss Balgarnie represented at the Woman’s
National Council in Washington as Fraternal Del-
egate, Associations numbering nearly ninety
thousand women, amongst these were the British
Woman’s Temperance Association of which Lady
Henry Somerset is the honored President. The
Women's Peace and Arbitration Society, The
Women’s Liberal Federation of Great Britain
aud Woman Suffrage Associations.
	The morning after Miss Balgarnie’s arrival in
the City,(she came in on a late train), she came to
this office, and Mrs. Emily S. Richards called a
few minutes later and we three ladies went out
together, first making a call at the Deseret News
Office where in the editor’s sanctum the lady was
introduced to a trio of these distinguished gentle-
man C. W. Penrose, John Nicholson and W. J.
Sjodahl, she chatted with Elders Penrose and
Nicholson a few minutes pleasantly and then we
went to the Temple grounds, where she was
shown the Tabernacle and Assembly Hall etc,and
we began our climb to the top of the East tower
of the Temple. The fine view of the city from
the roof and windows of this magnificent structure
she thoroughly enjoyed, as she is an ardent ad-
mirer of the beautiful in nature. From the Temple
we repaired to the residence of Mrs. Phebe
Young Beattie where a delicious luncheon was
in waiting, also one or two other ladies, who had
heard of Miss Balgarnie’s arrival and were
anxious to meet her socially; among them Mrs.
Sarah M. Kimball, President of the W. S. A. of
Utah. After the lunch a barouche was at the
door, and the party of five drove with her about
town, called at the offices of President Wilford
Woodruff where the lady was introduced to the

