BOX ELDER STAKE.
	The quarterly conference of the Relief
Society of Box Elder Stake, convened in the
Tabernacle, Brigham City, on the 8th of March
President Olivia Widerborg presiding. Singing
"How great the joy;" prayer by Anna Wixom;
singing, "Great God attend while Zion sings;"
Treasurer's report read by Fannie Graehl.
	Counselor Zilla Rees: "We need strength
from our heavenly Father, to perform our daily
duties in the right manner; we need to be
watchful and prayerful; we know the evil one
is working hard; let us try to set a proper ex-
ample before our children.
	Sister Harper: "It behooves us to be united,
we must live in such a manner, as to merit the
approval of our heavenly Father."
	Sister Thorne: "My desire is to do my duty,
I feel it is good to meet together to build each
other up.'
	Sister Dewey: "We who are here, feel we
recieve the benefit of meeting together; we all
please our heavenly Father by feeling friendly
towards one another."
	Sister Christina Jensen desired to do her duty.
	Sister Harriet Hunsaker: "Let nothing
hinder us, that we can possible conquer, but try
to come together and assist each other."
	Counselor Mary Wright: "I feel we are a
blest band of sisters; this organization has been
a great blessing to us; the spirit of the Lord is
in our bosoms if we try to do our duty; let us
be prayerful."
	Emilia D. Madsen was the next speaker, then
singing: "May the grace of Christ." Benediction
by Sister Watkins. Afternoon session: singing:
"Guide us Oh! thou great Jehovah." Prayer by
Bishop Dewey. Singing: "How beauteous are
their feet."
	Sister Hubbard: It is long since I have en-
joyed the privilege of being here, on account
of poor health; it is my earnest desire to al-
ways have the Spirit of the Lord in my heart,
to enlighten my mind; if we fail to receive
blessings, it is our own fault, for our Father is
always ready to pour out blessings upon us; we
want to be worthy of the society of the faithful.
	President Olivia Widerborg: "I feel the Lord
has blessed us greatly; we have visited through
the Stake and found good sisters, that desire
to do their duties; the Relief Society sisters are
ready to go and look after the poor and needy
and the downhearted. I never saw a time
with greater need for mothers and wives to
live near to the Lord; plead for the Spirit
of God to assist you. The adversary is keen;
let us be united and keep in the straight and
narrow path. Spoke of the coming Jubilee.
	Counselor Charles Kelly: "I hear you are to
celebrate a Jubilee; fifty years have passed
since the Lord moved on his Prophet to organ,


ize this great help to the Church; if a con-
densed report was presented, it would astonish
the sisters; if any one should know the poor,
the Relief Society surely should; there is no
necessity that any one should suffer Zion."
He also made other good remarks.
	Sister Susannah T. Booth: "It looks as though
the sisters had started a new year with reso-
lutions to improve; I realize when we stag
away from our meetings, we miss something
and still those absent ones, perhaps, cannot
govern circumstances. We have to be charit-
able and long suffering."
	Condensed report read by assistant secretary
Anna Wixom. Mary Jensen: "We are not all
alike or brought up alike, but I feel we are
united; that makes it pleasant to work together."
We ought to be the most grateful people upon
earth, for we are the most blessed. Fifty years
ago we were organized; what a blessing it has
been to us; it has certainly made me better."
	Bishop Harper: "It matters not where the
Latter-day Saints meet, male or female, in the
Spirit of the Lord, their testimony is the same
and the Lord blesses those that are true and
faithful."
	Sister Watkins: "I have seen and heard the
Prophet Joseph many times, I know he was
the prophet of God. I was in the meeting
when the mantle of Joseph was received by
Brigham Young."
	"Bishop Hubbard: "I always rejoiced in the
company of the Prophet Joseph I never doubted
that he was a true Prophet, I have never
doubted this was the work of God. I was in
Nauvoo when the Relief Society was organized.
I pray the God of Israel to bless these sisters
and brethren; may they stand firm and faith-
ful."
	Sister Harding: "If mothers are not trying to
keep the Spirit of the Lord to help them, they
are making a great mistake. Sometimes the
greatest trials we go through, are the greatest
blessings we could receive.
	President Widerborg; reported the Scandi-
navian sisters Society said: "Sister Richards
visited me and sent her love to all the sisters;
let us all try our best and not get tired of
well doing. I see before me some of our
noblest women; do not be weary of this great
work." Conference adjourned for three
months. Singing: 'Lord dismiss us with thy
blessing." Benediction: Bro. Graham.
