S. L. CO. W. S. A.
	The regular monthly meeting of the Salt
Lake Co. W. S. A. was held in the 13th ward
Assembly Rooms, March 15, 1892. Pres.
Elizabeth Howard in the chair. Opened by
singing from the suffrage song book "A suf-
frage song." Prayer by Julia Druce. Sing-
ing, "New America." Roll called Minutes
of previous meeting read and approved. After
which nine new members were admitted.
Annie Brixon of the 4th ward, Eliza Barton of
the 21st ward, and Margaret A. Caine of the
2nd ward, were appointed to act as agents of
the suffrage society in their respective wards.
	Dr. E. S. Barney spoke upon the duties of
these agents. The following programme was
then rendered.

[Column 3]

	Mary Silver made a short, interesting speech
upon suffrage. Mary A. Freeze read a poem
"The Yellow Ribbon." Elizabeth Mc'Farlane
spoke upon an article in the Herald against
women being given the right of suffrage; also
referred to an article written in reply by C.
W. Penrose in the News. I am very much
pleased to have such articles come before the
people,and it shows we are attracting attention,
it is agitation that brings education, I was very
much pleased with the remarks of Pres. Angus 
M. Cannon at our suffrage Sociable, and would
like to see one of his sentiments printed. "It
is easy to understand the love and affection
which a man bears for his wife; the love of
parents for their children, but the love and de-
votion of Susan B. Anthony to her sex is be-
yond comprehension and she might justly be
called the mother of her sex." Mrs. Mc'Far-
lane also read a Scotch Poem.
	Dr. E. S. Barney read an article from the
Evening News written by C. W. Penrose in
favor of suffrage for woman.
	Lillie Freeze "I feel that in this suffrage
move I am experiencing something which I
have longed for a long time, not knowing what
it was I did want."
	Notice of a meeting to be held on Friday
March 18th in the 12th ward was given.
	Pres. Howard had been greatly pleased and
instructed in the exercises and felt much
pleasure in attending these meetings.
	Meeting adjourned until the third Tuesday
in March at the same hour and place.
		M. A. CAINE, Ass't. Sec.

