THE WOMAN SUFFRAGE CAUSE.

	The advancement of woman's cause is noticable
in many places recently where more privileges are
being extended to women in voting for school
suffrage, municipal suffrage etc. Bills have been
introduced in the Legislatures of several states,
notably in New York, where a bill has passed the
Assembly giving women "the right to vote for all
and every officer hereafter to be elected in this
State and on every question to be submitted to a 
vote of the people." It is the opinion of Eliza-
beth Cady Stanton that the Senate will not pass
this bill, but if not now a day is not far distant
when similar measures will, everything tends to-
wards it; the race is being converted to woman's 
suffrage surely and thoroughly, not excitedly with
out educating but thoughtfully and with the bes
motives in view, the uplifting of humanity through
the mothers.


The bill referred to passed the Assembly April
15, by a vote of 69 to 34. There was some oppo-
sition from a Tammany Hall representative,
which it is said aroused so much indignation as to
carry the bill; following is the bill.
	“An act to prevent discrimination on account of
sex at elections.
	The people of the State of New York Repre-
sented in Senate and Assembly do Enact as Fol-
lows:
	Section 1. Every citizen irrespective of sex
shall hereafter be entitled to vote for all and
every officer hereafter to be elected in this State
and on any question submitted to a vote of the
people, and it shall be unlawful to make any dis-
crimination between citizens on account of sex at
such elections.
	Section 2. No poll clerk, inspector of election
or other election officer or person fulfilling such
duties, shall hereafter refuse to register or to re-
ceive the vote of any adult citizen at any such
election by resson of the sex of such citizen pro-
vided such citizens shall in all other respects
possess the qualifications now required by law.
	Section 3. This act shall take effect July 1893.
	In Kansas municipal suffrage was granted in
1887 and Gov. Humphreys of that State says "the
vote of women has increased at each election.”
At one of the City elections this year in that
state it is stated as a fact that nearly every woman
in the City voted and it was a grand victory for
the better elements of society. “At Jewell the
women nominated a ticket and elected it.” At
Le Roy the issue was the closing of the dives and
joints.” At Newton the woman vote was very
large and a woman was elected a member of the
school board.
	In Illinois the women are making good use of
the ballot for school suffrage. In Freeport in
that State over four hundred men came out to
vote, where last year there were only forty just
to keep a woman from being school trustee.
	At Evanston a conservative seat of learning
there was considerable enthusiasm, and a com-
mittee of woman suffrage advocates did effective
work as soon as they were positive the City At-
torney would allow them to vote, which was not
until the morning of the election. At Blooming-
ton 1,400 women voted for members of the Board
of Education. Women voted largely at Galva,
Hillsboro, Joliet, Aurora, Salem, Princeton,
Normal, Centralia, Vandalia, Effiingham and
pretty well all over the State where the school
elections have been held,
	So woman suffrage is making men wake up to
their privileges lest they should lose them. So
far so good. As a rule in all probability if wo-
men had the privilege of nominating they would
choose men or at least a majority of men. Wo-
men are vastly more generous towards men, than
men are chivalrous to women.
	Wyoming as yet stands alone in the matter of
universal suffrage and has demonstrated the
success of political equality without limitations.
In the House of Representatives in Congress
April 25, Clark of Wyoming introduced a bill
which if it becomes a law, will extend the right of
franchise to every woman in the country over
twenty-one years of age to vote for Representa-
tives for Congress. Thus step by step the way
is being paved with these stepping stones and
occasionally a corner stone is laid by some great
and grand woman in the structure of woman's
Temple of Freedom upon which an imposing
monument of honor may be erected by those who -
come after.
	Majestically the world moves onward and with
this great tide of humanity constantly increasing
in knowledge woman is keeping well abreast of
the time,and the figure of the woman representing
Liberty will ere long be enshrined in a living,
breathing race of women, instead of one carved
out of the cold marble.


