TWELTH WARD S. L. CITY. 
Dear Sister E. B. Wells:
	The Twelth Ward Relief Society held their
Jubilee entertainment on Thursday evening
March 17th, in the 12th Ward Chapel, which
was beautifully decorated for the occasion, and
some lovely flowers growing in pots were placed
upon the stand, and an elegant bouquet, pre-
sented by Sister J. R. Midgley upon the table
in front of the stand. 
	Mrs. Julia Druce, presiding,called the Assem-
bly to order, and announced singing by the
choir; the song "America” was finely rendered.
Br. J. C. Kingsbury then made the opening
prayer, the choir singing “Our God, we give
praise to thee.” Sister Druce called upon
Sister Annie K. Hardy, to announce the pro-
gramme. Address by Br. J. C. Kingsbury, on
Relief Society work in the days of the Prophet
Joseph Smith. Vocal duet, “The Birds of
Spring” by Misses Mamie and Clara Wardrobe.
Recitation,“Was Marrage a Failure,” by Mrs.
Sarah Stewart. Sister A. K. Hardy read the
historical record of the 12th Ward in a clear
sweet voice. Song,“Speak a Kind Word to the


Loved Ones At Home," Miss Edith Midgley.
Fantasia on the theme, "Gotterhatte Frans
Kaiser" by Prof. W. Clive, accompanied on the
organ by Miss Belle Morris. Encore, "Then
You'll Remember Me." An Address the Relief
Society Organization of the 12th Ward in 1868,
by Bro. E. Snelgrove. A song, "The Boys Of
The Old Brigade" by Br. John Robinson.
Encore "Rocked In The Cradle Of The Deep"
A Vocal Quartette, "Fairy Moon-light", encore,
Juanita by the Symphony Club. Remarks
by Elder George Goddard, and a song entitled
"Hard Times Come Again No More". An
Essay on Relief Society work by Sister Nellie
Little. A song, "The Song That Reached My
Heart Was Home Sweet Home," by Miss
Blanche Kenner. An excellent repast was
provided by the sisters of the Ward, and served
by our young ladies of the Mutual Improve-
ment Society. Benediction by Counselor John
Druce.
	All went away feeling well and happy.
On the next day, March 18th, our Juvenile,
sisters and brothers, numbering about three
hundred, were treated to a Jubilee Party, by
the sisters of the Relief Society of the 12th
Ward. All enjoyed themselves in the dance un-
til 7, p.m; then they were served with dainty
and delicious refreshments, and all seemed glad
to attend a Jubilee Entertainment.
		JULIA DRUCE, President.


