out the fulness of our souls where are the
loved ones that were with us then? and a thrill
of sweetness almost painful tells us it is only
a memory, though we could almost believe we
were back again among the very pastimes and
enjoyments of the days of youth. Among the
delightful associations of childhood, especially
of those who have lived much in the country,
one ever bright spot in memory's golden chain
is the May-day or May time; the sweet May
time when fields and woods are fragrant with
the early bloom of flower and bud and vine,
and when the awakening of Spring has come 
in its freshness and reality.  The bird songs
are inspiring, the woods resound with gladness
at the wild bird's songs.
	"Among the varied songs of May
		That gladden field or grove,
	I deem blithe bird, thy woodland lay
		All other songs above.
	"The skylark cheers the grassy plain
		The thrush may whistle strong
	From budding elms a wilder straim
		Is thine a dearer song.
	"Sure am I that our Shakespeare's might
		Thrilled at thy woodnotes wild
	And doubtless Milton's darkened sight
		Thy melody beguiled."
The squirrels come from their winter retreat
and run and frisk about in the bright sun-
shine as gaily as though they knew that all
nature was holding a general jubilee of praise
and thanksgiving. The whole world of living
creatures rejoices in the light and warmth and
glow of a May day morning and it is meet that
there should be rejoicing for the return of 
beauty, that shines upon the hilltops gilding
the loftiest peaks and in the lovely vales, there
the violet and lily of the valley hide their
modest heads, yet are they searched out be-
cause of the sweet perfume that betrays their hid-
ing place and makes them more sought for than
the grandest flower of the plain, whose bright
colors flaunt in the sunshine. So is modesty
and gentleness always unobtrusive, lowly and
meek yet because of these precious qualities
when found these attributes commend them-
selves and are held nearer and dearer to every
heart than the haughty and arrogant for they
are often worthless, except in outward appear-
ance. So we can learn useful lessons in life
from the flowers, and from the birds, and from
everything in nature.
	It is a well known fact that the nightingale,
the sweetest songster of the forest, is the
plainest in appearance of all the warblers of 
the woodland. Indeed this bird one would
pass by unnoticed can awaken the soul that
has least emotion or music in its composition.
	Tennyson says in "Enoch Arden,"
		"Where a passion yet unborn, perhaps,
		Lay hidden, as the music of the morn
		Sleeps in the plain eggs of the Nightingale."
	Juliet pleading with her love--
		"It was Nigtingale and not the lark
		That pierced the fearful hollow of thine ear.
		Nightly she sings on yon pomegrante tree,
		Believe me love it was the Nightingale."
	Well do I remember the beautiful Maytime
in the long ago, and how ardently as a child

[Column 3]
I looked forward for the May flowers to blos-
som in the hills and pastures, and O how fair
and radiant all the world seemed in that fairy
vision of childhood.  How good it is to have
this sweet, glad spot in our lives, and to enjoy
 the balmy fragrance of the buds and blossoms
and drink in the exhilarating inspiration that 
comes with the freshening breeze fo the Spring
morning, as one rambles forth to fields and
pastures, woodland and wold and as it were
converses with the little winsome maiden we
call sweet May.
	How the woods and hills resound with the
merry laughter and fresh young voices of the 
May parties, young men and maidens whose
hearts are being touched by "the tender pas-
sion," that comes naturally often to the most
unimpressionable boys just on the verge of man-
hood.  How sweet is love's young dream even 
in memory, no wonder the poet said,
	" 'Twere better to have loved and lost
	Than never to have loved at all.
	And yet it is a question whether one loses
all, certainly not the memory of true love, that
remains through all the changing, shifting
scenes of this dreary, weary world of bustle
and of work.
	Love true and pure always makes one better
by developing the best and purest qualities
and not only better but more beautiful, and 
there is something enchanting in it that never
quite dies out aside from the memory itself;
but I was thinking of Maytime and not of love,
why should one's thoughts wander away upon
other themes, and yet these two Love and May 
time are closely associated in memory.  It
may be in part however owing to my knowing
that most of the girls with whom I went May-
ing fell in love, so it appeared, even when
children. Gay times those were to be sure,
but  my special delight in the Spring time was
to wander off alone, and of all the haunts of
my early years, the hemlock grove was perhaps
the dearest spot of all and where I let my
fancies run wild most uncontrollably.  O
those wonderful hemlock trees how gracefully
they bowed and nodded, and fanned me, how
companionable they were; I seemed to imbibe
inspiration from association with their signing
and tell tale music, even when the birds that
swung to and fro on their daintiest boughs
were silent or had flown away.  The tiny
flowers that hid themselves away under the 
dried leaves and moss and the edges of the 
rocks, were my childish delight, and the wild
flowers were and are my special favorites; no
child ever could have enjoyed more the
secluded haunts of the woods than I did, un-
less their capacity for appreciation was greater.
New England abounds in these resorts, the
meadows are gay with buttercups and cowslips,
and the fields with lilies and daisies and a 
hundred other lovely blossoms, and the groves
and woods, my heart swells with tenderness 
for them; and the memory of those sweet
Spring-times will remain with me while I
live.
	We have an abundance of wild flowers here
in this mountain region, and our children
gather them with the same ecstacy and de-
light that we roamed the New England hills
and woods in the long ago.
	Let the little ones enjoy these beautiful,
simple pleasures, for the memory will be
pleasant throughout their lives, celebrate with 
gladness and thanksgiving the renewal of the


season of beauty.  All these things speak to
the soul of that God who watches over the
whole earth, who never fails to bring the re-
turn of Spring, with the flowers and birds, and
every living thing rejoices in the good gifts
He sends, so bountifully; the fresh green grass,
the dear old-fashioned lilacs, the crocuses and
hyacinths and all the early tender buds, how
tenderly and gently these things remind us of
the watch care of our Father, who never for-
gets to send his blessings in due season upon
the just and the unjust, and here is anotner
beautiful lesson for us the lesson of love to
all mankind; charity that heavenly attribute
that uplifts the human soul; and will at
length bring us into nearer and closer asso-
ciation with the divine.  And so while we re-
joice in the Maytime let us also reflect upou
the lessons to be learned, and seek the happi-
ness of others, forgetting self and especially
remember the children and the lesson the
Savior taught—“Except ye become as little
children”&c.
