[Column 2]

President and also to his Counselor Joseph F.
Smith, and others; she seemed to enjoy the few
moments conversation with the venerable Presi-
dent, and made some inquiries afterwards con-
cerning his age and appeared to think as every 
one must that he is a wonderfully well-preserved
man for his years. The party of fivethen dined at
the Templeton.
	We all talked and Miss Balgarnie had told us
of her tour in America and Canada, and we felt
more and more that her stay was much too brief
for her entertaining conversation.
	Mrs. Beatie opened her parlors for a informal 
reception in honor of Miss Balgarnie in the
evening, but it was impossible to send out many
even verbal invitations on such short notice, yet
a few interesting people assembled in the evening
and the lady conversed in an easy and graceful
way though no set speeches were made. She was
presented with a very handsome basket of choice 
flowers by one of the ladies of the party and
several little gifts of books from both ladies and
gentlemen.
	Among the most notable at the reception were
Apostle Franklin D. Richards and his wife Jane
S. Richards, his daughter Mrs. Nellie Webber,
Mrs. Carrie E. Dye, Mrs. M. Isabella Horne,
whom Miss Balgarnie had met in London and
passed a pleasant hour with in 1890, Mrs. Maria
Young Dougall, Mrs. Ann D. Groesbeck, Miss
Margery Dwyer, Mr. Dwyer, Mr. W. B. Dougall, 
and a few others; just before nine o’clock the
carriage came to take the lady away, her good
bye was hurriedly said and accompanied by two
or three of the ladies she took in the Salt Lake
theatre on her way to the train where an opera
company were giving a popular performance, and
then away to the Denver depot where we waited
to see her safe on board and off for New York
via Denver. Miss Balgarnie expected to sail on 
the S. S. Britanica on the 20th of April for her
home in London. It is our impression that the
lady is very much pleased with her visit to
America as a whole. The Yosemite valley she
considered worth almost risking one’s life
to visit. She spent considerable time traveling
in Canada as well, and had visited Niagara Falls 
several times. She was anxious to know concern-
ing the early pioneers to the valley realizing that
the privations and hardships must have been
great. Her visit was a real pleasure for she is a 
very charming person and especially so in con-
versation, though she is something of a radical in
opinions,she sustains the position she takes logi-
cally.
	We shall be very glad to hear of her safe ar-
rival in England, and are interested in her work
which is broad and thorough; and hope to see
what she tells the people in her public speeches
of her experience in America and her visit to
Utah.


