[WomansExponent | Vol28 | 1899 | October | Issue: 10 | Title: DEBORAH SAMPSON—A WOMAN OF THE | Author: ALICE BURKE]

DEBORAH SAMPSON—A WOMAN OF THE
REVOLUTION.
BY ALICE BURKE.
(Continued.)
	Within a few days Deborah posted a let-
ter to her mother from an-outlying town,
where she got permission to go. A por-
tion of it read:
Dearest Mother:
	I am in a large, well-regulated family. My
superiors are indulgent, but demand punctilous
obedience and propriety of conduct.
	There was a little more and then she
signed herself, “Your loving runaway
child, Debbie.”
	She gave no address, and of course re-
ceived no answer. She grew restless be-
cause no action was given her in the differ-
ent engagements. This reached the Col-
onel, “that Bobbie wanted to fight.” He
sent her out almost instantly with a scout-
ing party to cross the Hudson at Stony
Point. Finally some real fighting came
her way. She engaged in a skirmish be-

[Column 2]
tween Tarrytown and Sing Sing on the
26th of June. The day was intensely hot
and Deborah braced herself against im-
pending dizziness and weakness which
came over her. When the morning
dawned a stifling atmosphere fell upon the
band of men as they picked up traps for
the skirmish. Deborah’s comrades rallied
her on her white face and haggard eyes,
but she made no answer, only went about
her duties. When the order came to move,
she was alert with energy, though pale as
a ghost. Every bit of life centered in her
eyes, which meeting the soldiers as they
spoke to her, fairly dazzled them.
	“Jove,” one man said to a companion,
“if only a woman had such eyes, I’d wor-
ship her.”
	Deborah heard and was afraid, afraid of
being found out. She could not see the
man’s face, for he was turned from her,
but she saw that he was of higher rank
than a private. His voice was pleasant,
deep and manly, not easily forgotten.
	She took her place with the rest and
was soon in the thick of a desperate fight
with the British. She felt her strength
failing, her head swam, the whizz of the
bullets sounded deadly, the hot sun in her
face—for it was midday now—the groans of
the wounded filled the air and with a
woman’s horror and tenderness for the
suffering, she often paused to smooth a
dying comrade’s brow or hear the last
words of another, and thus she struggled
on, finally making her way to the front
ranks. Now desperate with the heat and
misery about her, and wishing to end it
all, what easier way than to be shot down,
serving her country. So she made her
way persistently forward. She felt sud-
denly that some one was dogging her foot-
steps closely, now on this side, now on
that. She did not turn to see, but was
conscious of this presence near her. He
was not her usual comrade, she was sure,
yet she would not turn to ascertain, so
eager was she for death to release her from
her misery.
	As she reached the foremost skirmisher,
a hand was laid on her arm.
“Stop!” a commanding voice said, a
voice she remembered instantly, the one
she had heard in the early morning.
	“I will not!” she exclaimed rebellious-
ly, trying to jerk away from him. 
	“You must not go on! It means
death!” he continued. “Be reasonable,
Robert.”
	“What business is it of yours, let me
go,” Deborah said, averting her face.
	“Rob, you are wilful. Here, look at
me, lad.” The soldier forced Deborah to
raise her head and meet his glance. Her
heart failed her as she did so, for the eyes
regarding her with an expression of grave
earnestness, were clear and of a dark blue;
eyes which seemed to master her soul and
hold her in bondage. Her own fell before
them, she breathed quickly, strangely
moved, she scarce knew why, and for once
her indomitable will failed her. 
	“Well,” she asked slowly, “I’m look-
ing at you. What is it you wish?”
	The wayward manner, the restless
glance of the handsome eyes puzzled her
companion. He eyed her curiously. Debo-
rah knew he was studying her, and with
an effort recovered herself, raised her eyes,
and met his boldly with the same light in
them which he had seen once before.
	“My heavens,” he said, still holding
her, “you’re a strange boy—and if—and
if— ” but here the bullets grew thicker,

[Column 3]
the smoke denser, and in the confusion she
contrived to get away from him.
	“’Tis love,” she whispered to herself,
as she ran madly on. “Love that has
come to me, and I’ve sworn never to give
up my liberty. God help me!”
	With a prayer on her lips she sped on.
She looked backward, but her companion,
tall and stalwart, though he was, could
not be seen. Was he wounded? There
was no time for conjecture, she must de-
fend herself as best she could.
	Before her, ever onward, she fancied
him near her. His thoughtful eyes bent 
upon her and his voice bidding her stop.
But this was only a dream, and she found
herself in a dangerous position with hiss-
ing missiles falling about her, and dense
smoke blinding her. With a groan she
put her hand to her arm, and saw blood
oozing through a great rent in her sleeve.
She was wounded, though slightly. The
pain was intense. She bound it up some-
how and rushed boldly on, stumbling now,
however, for the loss of blood and the
heat made her stagger blindly; then she
was drawn forcibly back. She began to
lose consciousness. The fear of being
discovered forced her to keep partial con-
trol of her senses, and she was aware she
was being led out of danger.
	“Wait, wait,” she gasped.
	Some one pressed a cup to her lips, and
she drank deeply, which revived her. She
looked at her companion. It was he;
bending above her calm and authoritatively.
A great fear took possession of her. She
must keep away from him, keep away
from the dangerous contact of his detain-
ing hand.
	“Don’t you see,” she said, “I’m all
right. The wound is nothing, nothing, I
assure you.”
	She tried to be brave, though her voice
trembled. He was aware of it. 
	Rob, you are talking nonsense. Come
along with me. I am going to take you to
a place of safety.”
	He led her away, and she was too weak
to protest. He made her rest beneath a
tree, while he went to others who were
wounded near by. She discovered his
name while she lay there. It was Ben
Gannett, and he was the surgeon of the
regiment, a brave soldier, as well, in the
service, and cared for the wounded. As
she observed him, strong and yet gentle,
moving from one to the other, a longing
entered her soul to tell him who she was.
His earnest face and wonderful courage
affected her forcibly, but she put the
temptation from her, and rising with re-
newed energy, she went to him.
	“I thank you,” she said frankly, “for
what you have done for me, but I must
join my comrades on the hill.”
	“Not yet, Rob, not yet,” he said.
	“I’m sorry, but you must not try to
stop me, ” she said firmly.
	Dr. Gannett saw it was useless. 
	“As you will then. But don’t be reck-
less, Rob. Think when you’re on the
battlefield, there’s some one cares whether
you live or die, for I do,” he said gently.
	The words were scarcely uttered when
he felt her burning hands clasp his, while
a soft kiss touched his. hand. ’Twas Debo-
rah! but before he could speak she rushed
away with her rifle in her hand.
	“A strange boy,” he muttered, and
then proceeded with his work.
	Little more happened in this first attack.
Deborah escaped with her life, and only
he slight wound in her arm. She evade


[Column 1]
Ben Gannett studiously, and a year passed
without having seen him.
	In June, when the roses awakened and
all the world seemed filled with love and
peace. she was sent out on another expedi-
tion. She tried in vain to crush out of her
soul this love for the young surgeon, but
it would not be killed. The boys in camp
found Bob changed after the skirmish, but
though they teased him, got no satisfac-
tion.
	Deborah on this second occasion was
full of her usual strength and vigor.
	At length the order came for her to join
twenty men who were to retaliate on some
Tories in New York. She sprang on a
horse, and with the others charged the foe
boldly and chased them into a quagmire.
In the midst of her bravery a bullet pierced
her thigh. Her cavalry boot filled with 
blood, and she grew weak and faint. She
called out to the soldiers, “I can go no
further!” One of them stopped and 
offered to carry her, but she motioned him 
away, fearing to be discovered, and he left 
her.
	Scarcely had he withdrawn when an-
other man rode out of the forest. She
knew him instantly, Ben Gannett.
	“Wounded again, Rob?” he said gently,
going to the youth, with blood stains on
his clothes.
	“Yes, yes,” Deborah answered in an 
agonized tone. “And it’s an ugly one.”
She pressed her hand over it, trying to
stop the blood.
	“This time I hope you’ll be sensible,
and let me dress the wound,” Ben said,
holding out a hand to help her.
	“I cannot, Doctor, believe me. I’ve a
horror of being hurt more—and prefer to
dress it myself,” she said firmly.
	“I suppose amongst your other follies,
which are those almost of a woman—”
	Deborah quailed beneath the sarcasm,
and he perceived an odd little smile on her
lips.
	“I say, Rob, amongst your other follies,
you will doubtless try to walk to camp.”
	“Perhaps,” she said, and with a ner-
vous strength she got to her feet.
	“Ah, me,” she exclaimed, with a per-
ceptible pang of pain. He saw she suf-
fered.
	“Do be sensible,” he urged, “and let
me help you.”
	“No, Doctor, it’s useless asking.”
	She tried to walk, but found it impos-
sible.
	“The game’s up. I’m good for nothing.
What shall I do? If I could only get to
my tent I could fix the wound in a
moment,” she said.
	“Well, since you won’t listen to me,
there is but one way I can help you,” he
said, and without warning he lifted her in
his arms and placed her on his horse and
mounting up beside her he started off for
camp.
	Deborah remembered that ride. They
were quite silent, for the day was drawing
to its close. A mist came down and clung
to the trees. It circled over the meadow
like a veil between them and the river.
	Ben was not thinking of the scene but
of his companion. He looked at her
closely. She had lost her cap in the fray,
leaving her shapely head exposed. It was
covered with a mass of short dark curls.
Without knowing what power made him,
he laid his hand on her head. Deborah
moved away uneasily.
	“My lad,” he said, “why are you so

[Column 2]
impatient of care? What is the reason?”
	“Oh, nothing. No reason,” she said
shortly, pressing her hand to her side, and
the Doctor saw she was still suffering.
	He refrained from more questions. He 
saw that his companion’s face grew white
and drawn.
	“Oh, it’s all up with me,” he heard her
say, and then a sudden flash of something
bright in the hand which was free. In a 
second he wrenched the weapon from her.
Deborah in a moment of desperation and 
pain was about to kill herself.
	“Rob, are you mad,” the Doctor said,
pinioning her hands by a strong grasp.
He felt how the boy leaned heavily against
him. Was he too late? Was he dying?
	No, the breath came in short gasps, but
the eyes were closed.
	“Rob”’ he said, “I didn’t mean to be
harsh to you. You are suffering.”
	A pressure of the hand was the only
answer, and thus they rode on, Deborah
in a half conscious state, allowing herself
to rest in his arms.
	“Strange,” the Doctor thought, “a
moment ago such energy and now he’s fit
to die. I can’t help loving the boy, in
spite of his wilfulness.
		[To be continued.]


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


