[Vol22 | March 1935 | Sequence: 13 | Category: Article | Title: Class Kimball]

It is a blessed privilege to belong to and participate in the activities of the Relief Society. The growth received through service and class participation therein is continually transforming the members, so that they are constantly getting nearer and nearer the stature to which the Master desired them to attain. Mary C. Kimball
A Suggestion
ELDER OSMOND OLSEN, an ordinance worker in the Manti Temple, writes that on the day he and his wife were married, she presented him with a complete Temple suit which she had made herself. He has greatly treasured this because of his wife's thoughtfulness and the loving work she did for him. He says he so often hears people make the excuse that they would go to the Temple if they had clothes. He suggests that neighbors, friends and relatives could cooperate in overcoming this obstacle, and also see that transportation is provided for those who desire to go to the Temple.
"Fits of Wits"
JUDGE NEPHI JENSEN has collected many of his terse, clever sayings and a few of his poems and bound them into a volume called "Fits of Wits." It will be greatly enjoyed and read with much profit, for Judge Jensen's philosophy is worthy of thoughtful attention, and so tersely does he put his thought that one can get food for thought from a few words. Price 75c, Deseret Book Company.
Lesson Department (First Week in May)
Theology and Testimony
LESSON VIII
THE KIRTLAND TEMPLE
1. Early Revelations. Scarcely a year after the Church was organized, and when the membership was still very small, the Lord gave a revelation to Joseph Smith in which he made brief and indirect allusion to the existence of temples in the last days. Here is the statement: "I am Jesus Christ, the Son of God; wherefore, gird up your loins and I will suddenly come to my temple." (D. And C. 36:8.) The statement, although brief and indirect, was portentous of a practice that would later differentiate the Latterday Saints from all other Christian people. It is doubtful, however, that at that time the members of the Church, and likely even the Prophet himself, realized its significance.
2. At first thought it may appear strange that the Lord is under the necessity of revealing the truth a little at a time, that is "line upon line and precept upon precept." The fact, of course, is that if principles were revealed in their entirety at one time, the Saints would not be prepared to receive them. Moreover, the same condition holds in secular matters. Children at school, for example, are given only a limited amount of new material at any one time. Students of music, of physical education, of medicine?and of anything?necessarily approach their subjects in the same manner. Indeed, on every hand and in every form of activity, the human brain is limited in its assimilation of new material.
3. Two months later the Lord again alluded to the same matter as follows: "That my covenant people may be gathered in one in that day when I shall come to my temple," this time adding: "And this I do for the salvation of my people." (D. And C. 42:36.) Some four months later, in July of 1831, the Prophet arrived at Independence, Missouri, chiefly for the purpose of establishing a branch of the Saints in this locality. By that time he doubtless fully understood that the privilege and obligation of building a temple to the Lord rested upon his people, for in the language of the Prophets he was caused to exclaim: "When will the wilderness blossom as the rose?