The Relief Society Magazine - January 1968, Vol. 55, No. 1

What Do You Want The New Year To Bring? General Presidency

Would you have PEACE? Then have your own soul be peaceful. Create in your home a haven of serenity, free from confusion and disorder. "My peace I give unto you," the Savior said. Accept his gift and do his will in order to receive it.

Would you have JOY? Then let the happiness of goodness, of living the commandments, permeate the atmosphere around you. "Man is that he might have joy." Accept this gift with the understanding of your part in making your life joyful.

Would you have LOVE? Then be loving and lovable. Do not be afraid to express your love by word and deed. Enlarge your capacity to love by service to others. Accept this gift of love from God who is love.

Would you have TIME? Then learn to use the valuable hours, minutes, even seconds, more wisely. Time to do all of the things of which we dream is of our own making. Accept this gift of time.

Would your have OPPORTUNITY? Then open your eyes to the possibilities closest to you. If you desire to make personal progress, enlarge your vision, make your own opportunities to study, to observe, to grow. Accept this gift of opportunity and work to fulfill your desires.

Dear Sisters, it is our prayer that what you want for your own good, the new year will bring to you. We hope that peace, joy, love, time, and opportunity, together with all the righteous desires of your hearts, will come to you in the NEW YEAR. May the blessings of our Father in heaven attend you. General Presidency

The Cover: Winter in Monument Valley, Utah Transparency by Lucien Bown

Frontispiece: Cedars of Lebanon Photograph by Harold M. Lambert

Art Layout: Dick Scopes

Illustrations: Mary Scopes

From Near and Far

I want to thank you for printing Birthday Congratulations to President McKay (September 1967). His words on motherhood and the home, and the editorial "Hold Up Your Light," by Marianne C. Sharp helped me to make up my mind regarding a problem in my home. I have been trying to stop working outside the home, and stay at home with my five-year-old daughter, but these offerings in the Magazine helped to show me the light that my daughter should be brought up by her mother and not be placed in a nursery or put under the direction of a baby-sitter.

Mrs. Anna Goldberger Van Nuys, California

May I take this opportunity to express my appreciation for The Relief Society Magazine. We feel a great need for spiritual uplift here in Japan, and the literature of the Church keeps us in contact spiritually with the saints in Zion. We certainly feel that the Relief Society organization was inspired. How wonderful it is for us to share in the gospel with those not of our faith through lending our Magazines around the neighborhood.

Shana Anderson Tokyo, Japan

The reason for my letter is to express my deep gratitude to you for sending me your beautiful Magazine. Although we are not of your faith we are very strong in the Jewish faith it is my duty to tell you that your Magazine and its lovely articles, advice, homemaking etc. are full of high ideals, sweetness, charity. My sincere congratulations.

Mary C. De Bensadon Tangier, Morocco

My October issue of The Relief Society Magazine arrived today, and I am satisfied that it is even more wonderful than usual. The Magazine is one of the wonderful birthday gifts from my daughter in Phoenix. I sent it to her on her birthday, and this year she wanted to send it to me, as I enjoy it so much. I then pass it on to my daughter-in-law, so that she can study the spiritual living lessons, as well as the wonderful stories and clip the delicious recipes. My daughter and son-in-law are L. D. S. members, but I am not. Yet I truly want to say that I enjoy the spiritual living lessons, the homemaking discussions, and the messages of your fine leaders.

Lydia M. Leeds Greer, Arizona

A word of appreciation for our outstanding Magazine especially the March 1967 issue. I keep it handy to glance through and admire the splendid color photos and read a bit of poetry. My teenage daughters enjoy the Magazine as much as I do. My fourteen-year-old daughter expressed delight over the lovely story of the life of Emma Ray Riggs McKay (June and July 1967).

Grace S. Olsson High Level Alberta, Canada

I enjoyed the September (1967) issue of The Relief Society Magazine very much the poems: "Wide Autumn," by Dorothy J. Roberts; "Remembering" (frontispiece) by Christie Lund Coles; and the article "A Beacon Light and a Guiding Star" (by Vesta P. Crawford), which gave us a broadened look at those otherwise "dim and distant days" from the time of the Relief Society organization in Nauvoo until its time of growth in the mountain valleys.

Maude O. Cook Salt Lake City, Utah

The Relief Society Magazine

Published monthly by THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. © 1968 by the Relief Society General Board Association. Editorial and Business Office: 76 North Main Street, Salt Lake City, Utah 84111; Phone 364-2511; Subscription Price $2.00 a year; foreign, $2.00 a year; 20c a copy, payable in advance. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. No back numbers can be supplied. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once giving old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts.

=== ADVERTISEMENTS (from Birthday Congratulations) ===
$2.95 A'Scrapbook of INSPIRATION. Ever been sty DESERET BOOK COMPANy 44 East South Temple, Salt Lake City, Utah 84110 or 777 South Main, Orange, California 92668 Please senq me [7 A MORE EXCELLENT WAY DA SCRAPBOOK OF INSPIRATION Total amount of Purchase ¢ ROSS - This Must include 32% Sales tax from Utah residents Ordering from Sait Lake, or 5% sales tax for California residents Ordering from Orange. Apicture of carefree piness.. Guaranteed by Beneficial Life Insurance Your family deserves to enjoy the pleasant. Happy, things of life... And you can also make sure they have the opportunity to achieve all they have set their hearts on if you have provided them with a secure financial future through foresight and planning - and life insurance. Second Class Postage Pai¢ at Salt Lake City, Utah And you can do it so easily; a stroke of your pen can create an "Instant Estate" for your family. This "Instant Estate" can be tailored to your specific needs by a knowledgeable and experienced Beneficial Life Agent. Give him the opportunity to complete the picture of happiness for you. Opal; = 7 fi Virgil H. Smith, Pres. Salt Lake City, Utah