[Vol49 | November 1962 | Sequence: 24 | Category: Poem | Title: Awareness | Author: Leitner]
[Awareness Delia Adams Leitner]
Awareness 
Delia  Adams  Leitner 
May  I,  aware  of  beauty,  ever  be 
Imbued  with  wonder  at  the  starlit  sky; 
Marvel  to  view  the  patterns  in  the  wings 
Of  bluebird  or  of  velvet  butterfly. 
And  may  my  eyes  though  dimmed  with  years  behold 
The  loveliness  around  me  manifold, 
Envisioning  with  spirit's  senses  keen 
The  deep  realities  of  the  unseen. 
A  fadeless  joy  is  hers  who  ever  knows 
The  beauty  and  the  fragrance  of  the  rose.

SOCIAL  SCIENCE  •     Divine  Law  and  Church  Government 
The  Foundation  of  Church  Government 
Lesson  4  —  Divine  Law  and  Priesthood 
Elder  Ariel  S.  BaJIif 
For  Fourth  Meeting,  February  1963 
Objective:  To  show  the  place  and  the  importance  of  Priesthood  in  carrying  out  divine 
law. 
rj^ROM  our  discussion  in  previous 
lessons,  we  may  conclude  that 
divine  law  emanates  from  God  and 
has  to  do  with  every  phase  of  man's 
relationship  with  the  Father  includ- 
ing all  that  pertains  to  life  and  sal- 
vation. Everything  good  comes 
from  God.  Every  revelation  is  an 
expression  of  the  divine  will  and  is 
issued  for  the  benefit  and  welfare  of 
man.  Our  objective  in  this  lesson, 
as  stated  above,  is  to  show  the  place 
and  the  importance  of  Priesthood  in 
carrying  out  divine  law. 
Piiesthood  —  Divine  Authority 
Priesthood  is  the  authority  of  God 
through  which  his  purposes  are  ac- 
complished. Priesthood  is  divine 
law  in  action.  It  is  the  dynamics  of 
and  the  actual  power  supporting 
divine  law. 
Priesthood  is  the_goyernm.ent  of^  God, 
whether  on  the^  eaith^or  ii]Ljrtie.Jieaye^ 
for  it  is  by  that  power,  agency,  or  prin- 
ciple that  all  things  are  governed  on  the 
earth  and  in  the  heavens,  and  by  that  power 
that  all  things  are  upheld  and  sustained. 
It  governs  all  things  —  it  directs  all 
things  —  it  sustains  all  things  —  and  has 
to  do  with  all  things  that  God  and  truth 
are  associated  with.  It  is  the  power  of  God 
delegated   to   intelligence   in   the   heavens 
and  to  men  on  the  earth  (Taylor,  John: 
MilJennfal  Star,  Vol.  9,  page  321). 
From  the  above  quotation,  we  can 
assume  that  God  is  the  directing 
force  of  all  that  is  good  and  true.  H^ 
is  concerned  about  every  person  who 
comes  into  this  world.  They  are  his 
children.  He  is  particularly  inter- 
ested in  those  who  accept  his  teach- 
ings and  justify  their  affiliation  with 
his  organization  by  their  actions. 
Because  of  man's  free  agency,  God 
cannot  be  on  the  earth  to  direct 
things  in  person  so  he 
.  .  .  has  delegated  to  man  the  necessary 
authority  to  carry  out  the  provisions  of 
the  Plan.  Priesthood  is  the  name  given 
this  authority.  .  .  .  Without  authority  from 
God  there  can  be  no  Priesthood  (Widtsoe, 
John  A.:  Rational  Theology,  page  99). 
Divine  law  is  the  revealed  mind 
and  will  of  God  relative  to  his  chil- 
dren and  their  behavior.  The  Priest- 
hood is  the  authority  to  carry  out 
that  law.  It  is  also  the  channel 
through  which  God  will  continue  to 
reveal  his  purposes  to  the  children  of 
men. 
President  Brigham  Young  said 
the  Priesthood  of  the  Son  of  God 
''is  the  law  by  which  the  worlds  are, 
863

864 
RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE— NOVEMBER   1962 
were,  and  will  continue  forever  and 
ever.  It  is  that  system  which  brings 
worlds  into  existence  and  peoples 
them  .  .  ."  (WiDTSOE,  John  A.:  Dis- 
courses of  Biigham  Young,  page 
130). 
Understanding  the  Term 
Piiesthood 
Priesthood  may  be  explained  un- 
der the  following  headings :  1 .  power; 
2.  a  commission  or  delegated  author- 
ity; and  3.  a  personal  blessing.  First, 
Priesthood  is  a  powerful  force  by 
which  worlds  were  and  are  created 
and  by  which  the  unnumbered  sys- 
tems of  planets  operate  in  order. 
This  same  power  is  available  to  as- 
sist, guide,  and  direct  man  in  his 
activities  so  that  he  may  achieve  the 
full  purpose  of  his  creation.  But, 
unlike  the  other  creations  of  God 
which  operate  within  the  rigid  limi- 
tations of  the  law,  man  may  accept 
or  reject  the  truths,  the  divine  laws 
within  the  power  of  the  Priesthood. 
This  is  God's  recognition  of  the  sa- 
cred right  of  choice. 
Second,  Priesthood  is  a  commis- 
sion. To  the  person  upon  whom 
the  Priesthood  is  bestowed  the  right 
is  given  to  act  for  God  upon  the 
earth. 
Third,  the  Priesthood  is  a  blessing 
to  the  person  receiving  it,  and 
through  his  faithful  discharge  of  his 
duties  it  becomes  a  blessing  to  all 
people  with  whom  he  comes  in  con- 
tact.   (SeeD&C  84:33-34.) 
Rehtionship  of  Divine  Law 
and  Piiesthood 
1.  Revelation,  the  source  of  di- 
vine law 
The  discussions  in  our  lessons 
have  already  pointed  out  that  divine 
law  is  the  expressed  mind  and  will 
of  God  presented  to  man  through 
revelation.  Divine  law  provides  the 
guideposts  for  the  most  effective  and 
satisfying  way  of  life  for  mankind. 
Priesthood  is  the  authorized  direct- 
ing force  that  puts  the  law  into  ac- 
tion. For  example,  the  divine  law 
indicates  that  ''marriage  is  ordained 
of  God  unto  man"  (D  &  C  49:15). 
The  fulfillment  of  this  divine  law 
can  be  realized  only  through  the 
operation  of  the  Priesthood. 
The  President  of  the  Church  of 
Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  as 
Prophet,  Seer,  and  Revelator  holds 
all  the  keys  of  the  Priesthood, 
which  means  ''that  every  act  per- 
formed under  this  authority  shall  be 
done  at  the  proper  time  and  place, 
in  the  proper  way,  and  after  the 
proper  order''  (Widtsoe,  John  A.: 
Priesthood  and  Church  Govern- 
ment y  1929  ed.,  page  200) .  The  keys 
or  directing  power  of  the  Priesthood 
are  held  by  only  one  person  at  a 
time  on  earth.  A  portion  of  this 
directing  power  can  be  delegated  to 
others  and,  in  fact,  is  given  to  the 
various  Priesthood  holders  when 
they  are  called  to  office  in  the  or- 
ganizations of  the  Church.  Through 
this  delegated  authority  all  ordi- 
nances essential  to  exaltation  are 
carried  out.  The  law  describes  the 
organization  and  the  Priesthood 
makes  it  function. 
2.  Man's  laws  versus  divine  law 
In  the  Library  of  Congress  there 
are  many,  many  volumes  of  man- 
made  laws.  They  either  authorize 
or  restrain  the  activities  of  people. 
The  official  actions  of  the  legal 
agents  of  political  government  are 
set  forth  in  these  volumes.  Thus  the 
freedom  of  the  citizen  is  defined  in 
the  law.  He  who  would  be  free 
must  know  the  law  and   conduct