[Vol49 | November 1962 | Sequence: 18 | Category: Fiction | Title: Cut and | Author: Breeze]
Evelyn Fjeldsted am Ve EH y The brightness of the flower world, one ot Is waning in the autumn chill. Top AM A postlude wondertime returns, ANG Wy To gardens now so calm and still. Y Brave, earthly flower stars unnoticed, YW Until blossom colors flare their call, /] LZ To keep a rendezvous with time, — Af 11x Where garden leaves begin to fall. Z Other flower scenes have all been shown. A wild perfume drifts through the air. And, like the prairie sage, it seems, / I So cool, so wonderful and rare. And this is fall chrysanthemums; Pastels released when autumn comes. Remembering Sorrow Blanche Kendall McKey I had a crushing sorrow once— When I was very young; And life has never spoken since In quite so gay a tongue. I've laughed at many a passing wound— A half a score or so— But in the shadowed realm of tears My soul bows low. And yet on this Thanksgiving Eve, In counting how I'm blest, I think the wisdom born of sorrow Outshines all the rest! 827 on re Me o Grapefruit Edmot Menu for Tomato Aspic Salad e eo Turkey With Rice Dressin} Tha ca rake Seyi bag ©; With vsirooms I Cabbage Slaw ED sD Fa er Stuffed Zucchini Bran Bread Mary J. Wilson Cranberry Fluff Former Member, General Board of. Relief Society Pumpkin Pie Courtesy American Institute of Baking Hot Water Pie Crust 72 ¢. Boiling water 1% tsp. Salt 1 c. Shortening 2 rounded c. Flour 1 level tsp. Baking powder In 1 pt. Measuring cup put % c. Boiling water. Add shortening, putting in 1 tbsp. At a time until water and shortening measure 1% cups. Beat while melting. Add dry ingredients. Put into refrigerator to get very cold before rolling out for baking. Pumpkin Pie Filling 1% c. Mashed pumpkin 1 c. Brown sugar 2 eggs, slightly beaten 1 c. Evaporated milk 72 tsp. Salt tsp. Ginger tsp. Cinnamon tsp. Melted butter c. Half and half (milk and cream mixed) ee ee Mix well and pour into unbaked pie shell. Bake in 450° oven for 10 minutes, then lower heat to 350° to finish baking until set. Makes 2 small pies. Frozen Pumpkin Pie To Make Ahead of Time 7" \b. Marshmallows A tsp. Ginger 1 can mashed pumpkin (3% c.) "4 tsp. Salt 1 tsp. Cinnamon 1 c. Whipping cream Heat and stir marshmallows, pumpkin, cinnamon, ginger, and salt, until mixed and melted. Cool 1 hour. Whip cream and stir into pumpkin gradually. Pour into baked pie shells and freeze uncovered. Wrap and store. Thaw for 4o minutes at room temperature, then unwrap and serve. 'These pies may be made days ahead of time.

Cut and Paste Christmas Cards" Janet W. Breeze Here's a family-type Yuletide activity that stands up and says, "Start me early!" Making your own greeting cards can be fun as well as satisfying, in the rapidly growing commercialized world in which we live — and it is easy, too! Choose one of the following or try them all. One word of caution before you run for the scissors and glue. Be sure to purchase or decide on the size envelopes you intend to use FIRST — or you may end up making those as well. Colored construction paper will be your basic material, along with colored India ink for writing the inscription of your choosing. Just remember that a light-colored ink shows up better on dark blue or red paper. Other materials in addition to scissors and glue, are listed separately with each of the individual card designs. 832 MATERIALS 1. Red paper for card and letter cutouts; white paper for background cutouts, on which letters are glued; green rickrack; and small green, silver, or gold gummed stars. MATERIALS 2. Dark blue, red, or green paper for card; gummed loose-leaf paper reinforcements to form tree; a strip of white paper for the trunk; and colored ink (preferably same color as card) for writing "Merry ChristMl mas" on trunk. MATERIALS 3. Colored paper for card; large gold or silver gummed star plus matching metallic ribbon or paper strip for trunk; pinking shears; and contrasting colored paper for tree, which is glued to card by two side edges only. MATERIALS 4. Green construction paper for card; two lines old sheet music; silver or gold metallic paper for bell and knocker; and red ribbon or paper tape pinched to shape for bow. MATERIALS 5. Light blue paper, with window cut out for card; dark blue paper for reindeer cut-out silhouettes (traced from an old card); white poster paint (applied to wet paper) for ground snow and splattered over inside reindeer scene for falling snow; red or silver glitter for outside window border. 833 Out of the Wilderness CHAPTER 5 Shirley Thulin Synopsis: Marian Morgan, a widow and mother of six children, has come to Montana to supervise assessment work on the mining property owned by the family. In the mountain wilderness, Marian and her family meet Jake Hadley, the owner of an adjacent mine, whom they distrust, and whose offers of friendship they fear. HE early sun filled the room TT and awakened Marian. She dressed quietly and went outside. She had come to enjoy the short morning walk to the well, things were so special then. 'The leaves on the trees and the shrubs were bright green and shiny, still damp with dew. 'The air was refreshing, with just a hint of the night still in it. Marian had begun to feel as though this hour were hers alone, and each day on the way to fill her bucket, she walked along the small stream and watched the merry little ripples dance and bubble. 'Today she knelt on the bank of the stream and cupped her hands to fill them with water. The coolness of it made her shiver as she splashed handful after handful on her face. This ought to be good for my complexion, she smiled to herself. Though she knew there were elements in it that made it unsafe for drinking, it felt good on her face. 834 The stream ran from the mine on down to the creek. Marian looked deep within the water and wondered if long ago, men with stubby beards and eager hearts had panned for gold here. She looked at the flowers that bloomed along the stream and up the side of the mountain, as though they were friends. She liked to imagine they had been planted for her enjoyment alone. Now and then, a shrill call from one bird and the scolding reply from others made her smile. It was as though one bird thought it his duty to awaken the entire bird kingdom and wasn't too well thanked for his efforts. On the little hill where the well was, Marian stopped and looked at the land around her. It is beautiful here, she thought, and peaceful. She looked at the rugged slopes of the mountains that suddenly jutted out here and there from within the dense tree covering. And everywhere varied shades of green carpeted the ground. 'The steep mountaintops reigned above, reaching their heads into an intense blue sky, where white clouds floated like puffs of whipped cream. Now the sun was turning the yel- OUT OF THE WILDERNESS lows to orange and the blues to purple. Another day had begun. Marian let the bucket deep down within the shadowy depths of the well, and then drank of the clear cold water, before starting back to the cabin. "Mother," Jim met her as she came near, "I was going to go for water." "That's all right, I enjoy doing it." "Let's give Spotty some in his can, before we take it inside." "Spotty? Is that the name you finally decided on?" Jim laughed. "The kids all wanted me to name him Bambi, but I held out for something different. See his spots?" Jim closed the door of the pen behind him and went over to the little deer. "Hi, little fellow. Look, Mom, he acts glad to see me. He looks as though he would like to wag his tail." "If he were a dog, and if he had a big enough tail," Marian laughed. "TIL have to gather some more fresh brush. He sure eats a lot. I wish. We had some hay." "Maybe we can get Dick to bring him some. We'll ask him when he comes Saturday." "Do baby deer eat hay?" Tommy asked, coming towards them. "Sometimes they will, but mostly they eat leaves and soft twigs." "Jim, Spotty looks lonesome. Let's go find him a playmate," Tommy suggested. "Let's find him two playmates," said Jill, joining them. "No more deer." Marian picked "One is going to keep us "Tll be his playmate then," Jill said. "I'll play with him." Jim came out of the pen and closed it. "I'll have to fix that door 835 better. The wire hinges aren't too sturdy, and neither is the latch." ORNING comes early in the mountains, and it was still an early hour when Jim filled his pockets with roofing tacks and climbed up the ladder with the first roll of tarpaper. "What can I do to help?" Marian asked him. "Just stand by to hand me things," he told her. "And be ready to catch me if I start falling." He laughed. "Jim! That's not funny." Marian looked at the steep slope of the cabin roof. "You hang on tight and be real careful." "What's Jim up there for?" 'Tommy wanted to know. "He's going to fix the roof, dear. Now you go in and eat your breakfast." "All right. Milk for me." "For me, too," said Jill. "Tl be right back Jim. I'd better help Sue get the children settled." Marian gave the oatmeal a vigorour stir and filled the pitcher with the milk she had mixed from the white powder the night before. She was filling the bowls when she heard it. A rumble, and a scraping noise on the roof, then a yell from Jim. Marian closed her eyes, and without realizing it, waited for the sickening thud. When it didn't come, she ran outside and saw that he had caught himself when he got to the chimney. "Jim, are you all right?" "I think so. My wrist feels funny, though." Jim rubbed his arm, then sat still for a moment. Come and pour the 836 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER 1962 "We'd better get someone to do it, Jim, don't you think." But Marian didn't finish the sentence. Jim scrambled back up to the top and began to unroll the tarpaper with such a definite purpose, she knew she had to let him do it himself or find out that he couldn't. "Mom, can you send one of the twins up? I could use someone to help me unroll this. It's heavy." Marion thought for a moment. To have to worry about one of the children behaving like a human fly was all she could stand. "Ill come up,' she said. She was used to climbing ladders. She had always helped David clean the wallpaper in their home, but she soon found out that climbing on the top of roofs was something else. She cautiously edged herself up onto the roof, and then could go no farther. She was so frightened, that she just sat there. "Come on, Mom. Crawl on up, it isn't bad once you're up here." "T I can't, Jim. It's too high." "Well, then go back down and get Jed," he told her, but she couldn't do that either. 'The cabin seemed to be spinning one way and the ground the other. She couldn't make her feet reach out to find the ladder and she couldn't look down. The children were all watching her now, and Jim was calling directions to her. "Just turn over on your stomach and start to crawl, Mother." GHE didn't move. "Mom, come back down,' Sue urged. "You look funny," Jill told her. "Just a minute, I'll come and help you." Jim made his way down the roof and passed her onto the ladder. He took hold of her and helped her put her feet on the top rung. Now she was able to make her way down, one step at a time, until she finally felt the earth beneath her feet. Her knees were weak, and her head in a whirl. "Please, Mother, don't try anything like that again," Sue scolded. "You scared us," Jim added. "Let me go up," Ted said, and was halfwav up before she could find her voice to protest. Jed went up, too. "Mommy," Jill said, and started to brush Marian's clothing with both her little hands, "you're all dirty." "You better stay down here with us," 'Tommy said, and Marian was only too glad to do just that. She watched the three boys work with the tarpaper to get it started right, and had to admit to herself they were efficient. Soon the tapping of Jim's hammer made her feel confident and she relaxed. She climbed the ladder again and again, handing them more tacks, and when their work brought them near the edge of the roof, she could reach from the ladder and help. The morning wore on, and when noon approached, she went inside to prepare some lunch. "We have done nearly half of it," Jim said, coming in to wash. "That's wonderful, son. I am so proud of you." While Jim was eating, Marian noticed that he was using only his left hand, his right one rested in his lap. OUT OF THE WILDERNESS "My wrist bent the wrong way when I slipped," he explained. "It's all right, though." "Are you sure?" "Now, stop worrying, I'm fine." After lunch the boys went back up the ladder, and Marian helped Sue with the dishes, then laid Jill on the bed and tucked her in. "Keep an eye on Tommy, and listen for Jill to wake," Marian told Sue, and though her weary body felt more like joining Jill in her nap than climbing ladders, she knew she couldn't stay away from the project. After the pulling, hammering, smoothing and fitting, the tarpaper was all in place, and the day was nearly over. Marian wished for her tile tub and gallons of hot water, but knew that was a luxury she would have to do without. She would heat the two buckets of water and pour them in the round tin tub, as she had heard her grandmother describe, and they would all have an old-fashioned scrubbing. 'Tm going to remember these tired muscles every time it rains." Jim smiled. "I will be very thankful for your good, hard work every time we listen to the rain on the roof," Marian told him. NCE inside, Marian noticed how quiet everything was. "Where are the children?" she asked of no one in particular. She went out and around to the back of the cabin, but could see no one. "Sue," she called, and then she saw Tommy and Sue on a little hill, They both turned when they heard her. "Come here." Marian's voice was full of apprehension, for she could not see Jill with them. When they 837 came closer, Marian asked where the baby was. "Tsn't she still asleep?" asked Sue. "We went for a walk," Tommy said. Marian dashed into the house. Jill was not in the bed. The blanket was in a little heap, and Marian knew she had wandered outside. "She's gone. Oh, Jim, she's been gone for some time, she doesn't usually sleep very long." They began to look, calling her name over and over, peering into the shed, and behind the trees. Then the search widened. Jim and Jed climbed a tree so they could see over larger areas, but there was no sign of the little girl, Dread and deep despair gripped Marian's heart. In the wilderness, how far could a three-year-old stray? Or, then again, she could be but a few feet away, and she couldn't be seen, the trees were so thick and the underbrush so dense. Jim ran to the well, and Marian was close behind him. They decided it was too high and steep for her to have climbed up the boards and fallen in, though they weren't sure... Couldn't be really sure. Jim touched his mother's arm. "Don't worry, Mother, we'll find hem His concern for her started the tears, and the hot sting of them punctuated her helplessness. 'They went back to the cabin. "Mom, Jim... Spotty's gone, too!" Sue ran to meet them. "His pen is wide open and he's gone." "Jill must have gone in to play with him," Jim said, "and left the door open." "And when he went out, she followed," Marian guessed. 838 Marian told the twins, Sue and Tommy, to stay near the cabin. "We don't want anyone else to get lost," she told them. She stood, trying to decide which way to go. "Let's follow along the stream," Jim suggested. "All right." Marian took one step before something made her turn and look at Sue. There was hurt in Sue's face, and her eyes evaded Marian's. "Sue, oh, Sue, dear." "It's all my fault. If I had stayed by the cabin.... If I'd have watched the door." "Please, dear, don't blame yourself. We all should have watched." "But, Mother, if we don't find her oh, Mother." "Sue, we will find her... We've got to. Now, take care of the boys until we get back." Marian hoped her words would convey the confidence she did not feel. She turned and caught up with Jim. HEY followed one path after another, calling Jill. They went up one ridge after another where they could look over the land, but all they could see was treetops. 'They couldn't see the ground. New fear came over Marian as she realized there would not be much more daylight. Maybe a couple of hours, she thought, if that much. And the terror, the hopeless thought of her baby somewhere all alone in the forest in the night, made her temples throb and her body feel limp all over. If only David were here, she thought. He would know nght RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER 1962 where to look. Or if only she had listened to Charles and not come! She felt so alone, the words of Charles Neering, her friend at home, kept coming back to her, "You need?? Someone. Suddenly all her hatred for the mountains came surging back into her breast. Every tree, every blade of grass was her enemy. Her eyes were full of hot tears, and she was stumbling along trying to keep up with Jim. "jill! Oh, Jill, where are you?" she called over and over. Then with a depressing weariness, she slumped to sit on a huge rock. "Jim, we can't find her alone. It's going to be dark soon. What can we do?" Jim was silent, and Marian knew his words could not come out past the worry in him. "How far is it to the Silvér Bear?" "Just over that hill. The road goes right past our mine. Shall I go for help?" "Yes, Jim. We'll need the men. They know the land. Go quickly, Jim." As he started up the path that lead to the road, Marian knew she could not stay behind. "Wait, Jim," she called, "wait." She ran to catch up with him, and then her words of a minute before came back to her. We can't find her alone. "Jim," she said aloud, "we are going for help in the wrong direction." Jim looked at his mother and knew what she meant. The two of them knelt in prayer. There, high in the mountains, Marian asked for help in finding her baby. (To be continued) = jFROM THE FIELD General Secretary-Treasurer Hulda Parker All material submitted for publication in this department should be sent through stake and mission Relief Society presidents. See regulations governing the submittal of material for "Notes From the Field" in the Magazine for January 1958, page 47, and in the Relief Society Handbook of Instructions. RELIEF SOCIETY ACTIVITIES Timpanogos Stake (Utah), Manila Ward Achieves One Hundred Per Cent Attendance at Visiting Teachers Meeting, May 1, 1962 Front row, seated, left to rght: Cora W. Atwood, supervisor; Geneve Dalton, supervisor; Jessie R. Wadley, supervisor; Jeanette W. Warnick, supervisor; Fern E. Nielson, visiting teacher message leader, Timpanogos Stake Relief Society; Gertrude M. Richards, President, Timpanogos Stake Relief Society; Effie W. Adams, President, Manila Ward Relief Society; Leah W. Robinson, First Counselor, Gwen S. Unthank, Second Counselor; Margaret Jeppson, Secretary-Treasurer. Sister Richards reports: "At our visiting teachers convention held January 26th this year, we called attention to the picture at the bottom of page 44 in the January issue of the Magazine, entitled "'Nebo Stake (Utah), Payson Fourth Ward Achieves One Hundred Per Cent Attendance at Visiting Teacher Meeting, April 1961." <A challenge was offered the Relief Societies of Timpanogos Stake to equal this achievement. Manila Ward accepted the challenge, and at their May meeting one hundred per cent of their visiting teachers were present. Manila Ward Relief Society has a membership of 103 — the largest enrollment in Timpanogos Stake. There are fifty-two visiting teachers, two alternates, and four supervisors. We feel that this achievement is a reflection of good leadership and loyal membership in the Manila Ward Relief Society. The result of the effort put forth to attain this goal is being felt in increased interest and activity." 839 SrapRie Sees § a NOTES FROM THE FIELD 841 St. George East Stake (Utah) Relief Society Social Honors Visiting Teachers January 1962 Seated at the second table, left to right: Roma C.

Esplin, President, St. George East Stake Relief Society; Alta V. McConkie, First Counselor; Elsie B. Cox, Second Counselor; Elva H. Terry, Secretary. Sister Esplin reports: "The latter part of January, the members of the St. George East Stake Relief Society honored our visiting teachers at a luncheon and program. The tables were beautifully decorated with bouquets of flowers, and at each place setting, as a favor, was a little artificial flower made in Relief Society colors. More than 225 visiting teachers, with their executive officers, attended. We were happy to have our Priesthood advisor and two of our bishops join with us. Our oldest active teacher present was eighty-six, and the youngest teacher, from the College Ward, just eighteen." American River Stake (California) Relief Society Presents Historical Display During "Open House" Week at the Stake House, October 1961 Lois S. Fife, President, American River Stake Relief Society, reports a unique display which provided much interest for visitors at the stake house: "Each organization in the stake was asked to provide a display during the week of open house at our new stake house last October. Part of our display depicted the organization of Relief Society by the Prophet Joseph Smith. We made twenty-one dolls depicting the eighteen women and three men who were present on this occasion. Leola Hacken, Work Director Counselor, made the heads and the hands for the dolls, and the other sisters helped with the bodies and the clothing. During the month of March, the birthday month of Relief Society, the scene was also on display in the stake house, where all members of the stake could see it. We also set it up for our convention, at which time we were the hostess stake. We enjoyed making this display, and it has created a great deal of interest each time we have set it up." Brazilian South Mission Relief Society Conference Curitiba, Brazil, March 15-16, 1962 Sara Paulsen, President, Brazilian South Mission Relief Society, reports: "A twoday Relief Society convention was held in the Mission Home in Curitiba. We had in attendance sixty leaders, representing all parts of the mission. 'Success depends on you — magnify your calling,' the theme of the conference, was presented by members of various branches as they gave lessons, talks, demonstrations, and other material. From reports we have received, we feel that this conference was a success, as the leaders went back to their branches with more enthusiasm and realizing better the importance of the great Relief Society work. "The picture is of the pageant given in commemoration of the 120th anniversary of the organization of Relief Society. The pageant was held in our new chapel and was presented under the theme 'Relief Society magnified in my life.' "' NOTES FROM THE FIELD _ 843 Front row, seated, left to right: Duella Victor; Phyllis Wiscombe; Norma Reeder; Karen Wright; Lucy Coppin; Grace Petersen. Back row, standing, left to nght: Fay Lofthouse; Jennie M. Nielsen; L&Lia Grover; Eugenie Larkin, Magazine representative; Karen Halling; Pat Woodyatte; Betty Fish. May N. Balls, President, Box Elder Stake Relief Society, reports: ""We are sure that the activity represented by this picture will be the highlight of our stake for the year 1962. The report of our being among the top ten stakes on the Magazine Honor Roll for 1961 makes us feel honored as being the only Utah stake on this list. We would like to pay honor to our stake leader, Eugenie Larkin, who was the inspiration behind this achievement." Front row, seated, left to right, beginning second from the left: district officers: Helen O. Frazier, chorister; Lucy Dettor, work meeting leader; Valenna Robins, theology class leader; Mamie Murray, visiting teacher message leader; President Richard Stoddard, Memphis District; Floy L. Stoddard, Secretary-Treasurer; Jo Ann Sayles, Education Counselor; Virgie M. Shuman, District Relief Society President; Cleo Ann Thomas, Work Director Counselor; Patricia Isbell, literature class leader; Betty Carlson, Magazine representative; Rosa Pollard, organist. Marie C. Richards, President, Gulf States Mission Relief Society, reports that this was the first visiting teacher convention to be held in the Gulf States Mission. "District Priesthood leaders were in attendance, and President Richard Stoddard stated that it was the best program ever held in the Memphis District. Sister Virgie M. Shuman was formerly the president of the Atlanta, Georgia, Stake Relief Society, and her accomplishments here in the mission are most outstanding in every phase of the program. She is the first district Relief Society president to organize a complete district Relief Society Board. "At this convention skits were presented, depicting the educational departments of Relief Society. Eighty representatives from eight Relief Societies traveled distances up to 200 miles to be present on this occasion. Service citations were presented to the visiting teachers, making an impressive highlight in this convention." Front row, seated, left to right: Norma Allred, Work Director Counselor; Aleine M. Young, member, General Board of Relief Society; Hazel G. Kitch, President, Chicago Stake Relief Society; Edith S. Elliott, member, General Board of Relief Society; Gwendolyn Swinyard, Education Counselor. Standing, left to right: Marion Monson, organist; Veldron Matheson, theology class leader; Bernice Lindsey, chorister; Naomi Graves, Secretary-Treasurer; Afton Smith, social science class leader; Marlene Jones, literature class leader; Verle Fitzsimmons, Magazine representative. Alta Connors, work meeting leader, was absent because of illness when the picture was taken. Sister Kitch reports: ""The convention was a great success. The inspiration and help received from Sister Young and Sister Elliott of the General Board will be of lasting worth to us. The Chicago Stake has fifteen wards, ten in Illinois, four in Wisconsin, and one in Indiana. Many of the sisters traveled distances of seventy-five to eighty miles one way to attend the convention. They expressed their sincere appreciation for the help they received. We are grateful for their wonderful spirit and devotion to Relief Society." 844 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER 1962 South Cottonwood Stake (Utah) Singing Mothers Present Music for Quarterly Conference, May 1962 Standing in the front row, second from the right is Luella W. Finlinson, President, South Cottonwood Stake Relief Society, and next to her is chorister Maxine S. Pattison. Organist Beth L. Hendricks is seated at the console of the organ. Sister Finlinson reports: "The newly organized (December 7, 1961) South Cottonwood Stake honored the Relief Society Singing Mothers by asking them to present the music for both sessions of the May quarterly conference. Due to illness and vacations, only fifty-three of the sixty women from the six wards who had practiced in preparation, wcre able to sing for that occasion, plus Sisters Gloria Law and Vivian Howe, who assisted at the organ and violin. Counselors Momo T. Ushio and Pearalee F. DeShazer arranged for baby sitters during the practices. From thirty to fifty children were taken care of each time." Washington, D. C. Stake Relief Society Singing Mothers Present Music for Quarterly Conference, May 20, 1962 Seated, front row, center left (in dark dress), Ellen N. Barnes, chorister; seated, front row, center right (in dark dress), Nedra C. Eames, organist. Seated between Sister Barnes and Sister Eames, Marcia C. Steele, President, Washington, D. C. Stake Relief Society. Sister Steele reports: "The Singing Mothers traditionally present the music for one of the Sunday sessions of stake conference, the last two being held in historic Constitution Hall, with over 3,000 people in attendance. "On March 17, 1962, over 100 women, from thirteen wards, presented an outstanding concert in commemoration of the 120th anniversary of the organization of Relief Society. They have been asked to repeat this concert for the missionaries of the Eastern Atlantic States Mission and their contacts." Eastern Atlantic States Mission, Johnstown (Pennsylvania) Branch Relief Society Officers at Display Table During Attendance Drive April 1962 Left to right: Irene Lilly, Second Counselor; Alice Mihalcik, President; Frances Marsh, Secretary-Treasurer; Milta Aston, First Counselor of West Pennsylvania District; Emma Grace Hare, President of West Pennsylvania District. Thelma Hill, President, Eastern Atlantic States Mission Relief Society, reports that the sisters very much enjoyed this unique and well-planned attendance drive. Articles made by the Relief Society members during the year were displayed, including pillows, bags, aprons, afghans, pillowslips, and other articles, all of fine workmanship. The sisters also made the corsages which they are wearing in the picture. A covered dish supper was served.