[Vol49 | November 1962 | Sequence: 23 | Category: Lesson | Title: Social]
SOCIAL SCIENCE @ Divine Law and Church Government The Foundation of Church Government Lesson 4 — Divine Law and Priesthood Elder Ariel S. Ballif For Fourth Meeting, February 1963 Objective: To show the place and the importance of Priesthood in carrying out divine law. ROM our discussion in previous lessons, we may conclude that divine law emanates from God and has to do with every phase of man's relationship with the Father including all that pertains to life and salvation. Everything good comes from God. Every revelation is an expression of the divine will and is issued for the benefit and welfare of man. Our objective in this lesson, as stated above, is to show the place and the importance of Priesthood in carrying out divine law. Priesthood — Divine Authority Priesthood is the authority of God through which his purposes are accomplished. Priesthood is divine law in action. It is the dynamics of and the actual power supporting divine law. A ann to do with all things that God and truth are associated with. It is the power of God delegated to intelligence in the heavens and to men on the earth (Taytor, JOHN: Millennial Star, Vol. 9, page 321). From the above quotation, we can assume that God is the directing force of all that is good and true. He is concerned about every person who comes into this world. They are his children. He is particularly interested in those who accept his teachings and justify their affiliation with his organization by their actions. Because of man's free agency, God cannot be on the earth to direct things in person so he... Has delegated to man the necessary authority to carry out the provisions of the Plan. Priesthood is the name given this authority.... Without authority from God there can be no Priesthood (WipTSOE, Joun A.: Rational Theology, page 99). Divine law is the revealed mind and will of God relative to his children and their behavior. The Priesthood is the authority to carry out that law. It is also the channel through which God will continue to reveal his purposes to the children of men. President Brigham Young. Said the Priesthood of the Son of God "is the law by which the worlds are, 863 864 were, and will continue forever and ever. It is that system which brings worlds into existence and peoples them " (Wuprtsor, Joun A.: Discourses of Brigham Young, page 130). Understanding the Term Priesthood Priesthood may be explained under the following headings: 1. Power; 2. A commission or delegated authority; and 3. A personal blessing. First, Priesthood is a powerful force by which worlds were and are created and by which the unnumbered systems of planets operate in order. This same power is available to assist, guide, and direct man in his activities so that he may achieve the full purpose of his creation. But, unlike the other creations of God which operate within the rigid limitations of the law, man may accept or reject the truths, the divine laws within the power of the Priesthood. This is God's recognition of the sacred right of choice. Second, Priesthood is a commission. 'To the person upon whom the Priesthood is bestowed the right is given to act for God upon the earth. Third, the Priesthood is a blessing to the person receiving it, and through his faithful discharge of his duties it becomes a blessing to all people with whom he comes in contact. (See D & C 84:33-34.) Relationship of Divine Law and Priesthood 1. Revelation, the source of divine law The discussions in our lessons have already pointed out that divine law is the expressed mind and will RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER 1962 of God presented to man through revelation. Divine law provides the guideposts for the most effective and satisfying way of life for mankind. Priesthood is the authorized directing force that puts the law into action. For example, the divine law indicates that "marriage is ordained of God unto man" (D & C 49:15). The fulfillment of this divine law can be realized only through the operation of the Priesthood. The President of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints as Prophet, Seer, and Revelator holds all the keys of the Priesthood, which means "that every act performed under this authority shall be done at the proper time and place, in the proper way, and after the proper order' (Wuptsok, JOHN A.: Priesthood and Church Government, 1929 ed., page 200). The keys or directing power of the Priesthood are held by only one person at a time on earth. A portion of this directing power can be delegated to others and, in fact, is given to the various Priesthood holders when they are called to office in the organizations of the Church. Through this delegated authority all ordinances essential to exaltation are carried out. 'The law describes the organization and the Priesthood makes it function. 2. Man's laws versus divine law In the Library of Congress there are many, many volumes of manmade laws. 'They either authorize or restrain the activities of people. The official actions of the legal agents of political government are set forth in these volumes. 'Thus the freedom of the citizen is defined in the law. He who would be free must know the law and conduct LESSON DEPARTMENT himself within the framework of the law. Divine law does not limit or restrain man but opens the way for unlimited advancement. The ability, desire, and willingness to put forth effort to know and understand the mind and will of God determine the Priesthood holder's capacity to act in the authority of the Priesthood conferred on him. Genealogy of the Priesthood "Now this same Priesthood, which was in the beginning, shall be in the end of the world also" (Moses 6:7). The Prophet Joseph Smith tells us "There has been a chain of authority and power from Adam down to the present time" (Smith, Joseph Fielding: Teachings of the Prophet Joseph Smith, page 191). We are often reminded that Satan works Overtime in the development and presentation of evil to draw the souls of men away from the kingdom of God. But we should also be aware of the fact that the powers of righteousness have been working unceasingly from the beginning of time to teach, train, direct, and persuade the souls of men unto righteousness. The Priesthood of God was the dynamic force in the creation, and the Priesthood has been conferred upon man, beginning with Adam, that all men might have the benefit of this power in assisting them to harmonize their lives with their Eternal Father and in figh