[Vol49 | November 1962 | Sequence: 13 | Category: Fiction | Title: In | Author: Evans]
[In Memoriom — Fern Tanner Lee Amy Whipple Evans]

Ross came bounding down the stairs, two or three steps at a time, his "Merry Christmas" and "When do we eat?" almost in unison. Margaret stood enthralled by the things under the tree. 'Then she saw the little blue bag. It hung on the tip end of one of the branches, about half way up on the tree. This time she did not have to stoop down to see the mirror in the bottom. 'This time she did not need to look for the price tag. For the card on the bottom tread From Ross. Excerpts From the Woman's Exponent, November 1902 "For THE RIGHTS OF THE WOMEN OF ZION AND THE RIGHTS OF THE WOMEN or ALL NATIONS" INTERESTING LETTERS FROM NAUVOO — to Mrs. Emma S. Woodruff: Dear Mother: This has been a most interesting day for Asahel and myself. The day has been sunny and beautiful. The chrysanthemums, some few roses and many other beautiful flowers arc still untouched by the frost, lending their assistance in making the landscape almost perfect. We visited a great number of the former homes of the Saints, including father's, Uncle Smoot's and the lot where your house stood, President Joseph Smith's, President Young's, President Taylor's, President Snow's, Heber C. Kimball's and many others. We also visited the Temple block, where you used to take grandfather's dinner to him when he was at work on the Temple. We walked through the lane south of where you used to live, and fancied we could see you tripping light-heartedly along the same lane.... — Affectionately Your Son, Abraham O. Woodruff house standing on a commanding eminence and secured a splendid view of the city stretched out beneath, the river in its splendid sweep around three sides, Montrose THANKSGIVING Great Father kind, we thank Thee for light of sun, The privilege to dwell upon this earth, For everything which Thou for us hast done Since through Thy mercy we were given birth. Ah, how can we our gratitude e'er show, For all Thy many blessings here below.... — Ellis R. Shipp have the material, educational and social comforts of life been so abundantly and universally bestowed as during the year now drawing to its close; nor has the promise and potency of the future seemed so fraught with every earthly blessing. 1 therefore recommend that the people of this State in their places of worship and at their homes, observe with reverent joy, and with uplifted hearts and with the wide extended hands of good fellowship this Thanksgiving day.... — Heber M. Wells — By the Governor RELIEF SOCIETY MEETING IN THE FOURTEENTH WARD, SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH: Sister Phebe Y. Beatie addressed the sisters in behalf of Sister Emma Empey concerning the class of nurses that would commence the first of November, spoke of the benefit to be derived from being a nurse, the good they could do, and what a help they would be to the Bishops... In being able to know where to g0 for help in case of sickness; she urged the sisters to take an interest in the class... - — Amelia Wadrop, Sec. 822 = Oo HE DOWAGER MARCHIONESS of Reading was the keynote speaker at an All-Woman's Conference at the University of Utah, September 7-8, the theme of which was "The Changing Role of Women in Our Changing Society." Lady Reading is a member of the House of Lords and also chairman of the Women's Volunteer Service of Britain, an effective civil defense and social welfare organization. As one of the world's foremost advocates of volunteer service, the courage of her conviction carried to her large audience at the Conference, as she told them, "The ultimate strength of a nation lies in the character of the men and women who are that nation, and voluntary service is an integral part of that character. Peace will not be won, nor posterity saved, by the genius of the few, but by the devotion and faithfulness of the very, very many." M RS. ROBERTA WOHLSTETTER is the author of Pearl Harbor: Warning and Decision (Stanford University Press). It has been called by Samuel Eliot Morrison "the best book by far" on Pearl Harbor. Mrs. Wohlstetter completed five years of intensive research on her subject. EVERAL American women air pilots — especially noted trophy winners Miss Jerry Cobb and Jacqueline Cochran, and also Mrs. Philip Hart, mother of eight children, are very eager to be permitted to prepare for entering the field of space flying. Jerry Cobb, from Bethany, Oklahoma, was the first woman to complete the full battery of physical tests by which the seven Mercury astronauts were selected. She also completed the psychological tests. OMEN scientists working on the ground on space problems in the United States, are Helen P. Mann, analyzing missile tracking systems; Jean Keown, doing research on developing space food from algae; Doris M. Willis, a grandmother and a world-famed automatic controls expert; Marcia M. Neugebauer, who worked on an experiment for interplanetary probe; Sheila Wimdall, aeronautical engineer, working on a Massachusetts Institute of Technology design project. MB: ELEANOR P. SHEPPARD, a fifty-four year old grandmother, is the first woman mayor in the 180-year history of Richmond, Virginia. Her official title is "Madam Mayor." 823 EDITORIAL NOVEMBER 1962 Relief Society Gives Thanks for New Members ELIEF Society has great cause for rejoicing! At this time of year when hearts and minds are given to thanksgiving and a recounting of blessings, Relief Society counts its many blessings in the form of approximately twenty thousand new members. New members come into the organization bringing gifts, gifts of eager interest and contagious enthusiasm. They bring new vigor and a willingness to participate. Added strength is given the organization in spirit as well as numbers by the new members who thirst to be a vital part of a living, growing, serving society. New members must be made to feel pride in the great traditions of Relief Society and to recognize the value of keeping traditions alive. Pioneer women kept their culture and refinement in spite of the hardships of frontier life. They did not bow to expediency, live only for the moment, or let privation dictate a lowering of standards. Beauty lived with them and was made part of their environment by ingenious use of whatever was available. Their 824 talents were not allowed to be buried by adversity. 'This proud tradition has been a moving force throughout the years of the existence of Relief Society. Should the new members ask the meaning of Relief Society and what its values are, the answer would, of necessity, be long. It cannot be stated in one sentence. Like a jewel, it has many facets, all contributing to its beauty and value; facets which diffuse their light and radiance and bring joy to the beholder.