[Vol49 | November 1962 | Sequence: 32 | Category: Lesson | Title: Theology — Talents and Testimonies | Author: Roy W. Doxey]
LESSON   DEPARTMENT 
THEOLOGY  •    The  Doctrine  and  Covenants 
Lesson  45  —  Talents  and  Testinnonies 
Elder  Roy  W.  Doxey 
(Text:  The  Doctrine  and  Covenants,  Sections  60  and  62) 
For  First  Meeting,  February  1963 
Objective:  To  understand  that  talents  are  to  be  used  in  the  Lord's  service  in  testifying 
of  his  power. 
Introduction 
npHE  time  came  for  the  Prophet 
Joseph  Smith  and  some  of  the 
brethren  to  leave  Jackson  County, 
Missouri.  They  had  been  there 
for  only  two  months,  but  the  foun- 
dations of  Zion  had  been  laid  by 
dedication  of  the  land  as  a  gather- 
ing place  for  the  saints,  and,  also, 
as  a  site  for  the  temple.  Other  in- 
structions were  given  concerning 
the  people  and  their  settling  in  the 
promised  land. 
Instiuctions  About  Travel 
Several  elders  approached  the 
Prophet  to  learn  what  the  Lord 
desired  of  them.  These  elders  were 
instructed  to  return  to  their  homes 
in  the  East.  (D  &  C  60:5.)  Joseph 
Smith,  Sidney  Rigdon,  Oliver 
Cowdery,  and  the  others  were  to  go 
to  St.  Louis  by  water,  whence  the 
brethren  named  were  to  journey  to 
Cincinnati.  The  rest  were  to  go 
''two  by  two,  and  preach  the  word, 
not  in  haste,  among  the  congrega- 
tions of  the  wicted"  {Ihid.^  60:8) . 
''Congregations  of  the  Wicked" 
Section  60  mentions  "congrega- 
tions of  the  wicked"  twice.  {Ibid., 
60:8,13).  The  definition  of  the  ex- 
pression was  given  a  few  days  later. 
While  on  the  bank  of  the  Missouri 
River  en  route  to  St.  Louis,  the 
Prophet  and  his  party  were  met  by 
some  elders  on  their  way  to  Jackson 
County.  In  the  revelation  dated 
August  13,  1831,  these  elders  were 
told  to  declare  the  gospel  to  the  in- 
habitants of  the  earth,  or  in  other 
words,  to  the  congregations  of  the 
wicked.  {Ihid,,  62:5.)  "Congrega- 
tions" in  these  revelations  are  not 
necessarily  church  gatherings  only, 
but  they  may  be.  By  definition  of 
"wicked,"  the  student  of  the  mod- 
847

848 
RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE— NOVEMBER   1962 
ern  revelations  understands  that 
they  are  the  ( i )  morally  corrupt 
and  ( 2 )  those  who  have  not  accept- 
ed the  fulness  of  the  gospel.  (Ibid., 
35:12;  84:49-53.)  Consequently, 
"congregations  of  the  wicked"  are 
those  who  have  not  accepted  the 
true  gospel.  But  these  people  are 
to  have  an  opportunity  to  receive 
the  gospel  either  in  this  life  or  in 
the  spirit  world.  (I  Peter  3:18-20; 
4:6;  D  &  C  128:5.) 
"I  Am  Not  Well  Pleased' 
With  the  elders  who  had  come 
to  Missouri,  the  Lord  was  pleased, 
but  those  who  lacked  courage  and 
diligence  to  open  their  mouths  did 
not  receive  the  same  commendation. 
(D  &  C  60:1-2.)  These  elders  had 
failed  to  exercise  their  talents  in  be- 
half of  the  Church.  Talents  are 
natural  endowments  or  gifts.  These 
talents  constitute  our  ability  to 
make  contributions  to  the  welfare 
of  our  fellow  men,  through  music, 
poetry,  drama,  and  other  arts,  in 
mechanics,  and  in  the  professions. 
Some  people  have  talent  or  apti- 
tude in  leadership,  organization,  in 
speech,  and  in  getting  along  with 
people. 
Since  talents  or  gifts  are  natural 
endowments,  then  every  person 
possesses  them.  It  is  also  true  that 
some  people  are  gifted  to  a  greater 
degree  than  others. 
Source  of  Talents 
Latter-day  Saints  are  blessed  with 
a  far  better  understanding  of  them- 
selves, their  origin,  and  the  answers 
to  many  perplexing  situations  in 
life  than  are  those  who  do  not  be- 
lieve in  the  gospel.  Accepting  the 
truth    that  we  lived   as   intelligent 
beings  in  a  pre-earth  life  and  that 
wc  developed  ourselves  during  those 
eternities,  it  follows  that  we  had 
our  ''natural"  endowments  in  that 
life.  This  point  of  view  is  inter- 
estingly developed  in  correspond- 
ence betv/een  Elder  Orson  F.  Whit- 
ney of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve 
and  President  Joseph  F.  Smith.  In 
the  words  of  Elder  Whitney,  we 
learn : 
Spirit  Memories.  — Writing  one  day 
upon  the  subject  of  spirit  memories,  and 
the  influence  exerted  upon  the  affairs  of 
this  hfe  by  the  awakened  recollections  of 
a  former  experience,  I  found  myself  in- 
dulging in  the  following  reflections: 
Why  are  we  drawn  toward  certain 
persons,  and  they  toward  us,  independent- 
ly of  any  known  previous  acquaintance? 
Is  it  a  fact,  or  only  a  fancy,  that  we  and 
they  were  mutually  acquainted  and  mu- 
tually attracted  in  some  earlier  period  of 
our  eternal  existence?  .  .  .  More  than  once, 
after  meeting  someone  whom  I  had  never 
met  before  on  earth,  I  have  wondered 
why  his  or  her  face  seemed  so  familiar. 
Many  times,  upon  hearing  a  noble  senti- 
ment expressed,  though  unable  to  recall 
having  heard  it  until  then,  I  have  been 
thrilled  by  it,  and  felt  as  if  I  had  always 
known  it.  The  same  is  true  of  music, 
some  strains  of  which  are  like  echoes 
from  afar,  sounds  falling  from  celestial 
heights,  notes  struck  from  the  vibrant 
harps  of  eternity.  I  do  not  assert  pre- 
acquaintance  in  all  such  cases,  but  as  one 
thought  suggests  another,  these  queries 
arise  in   the  mind. 
The  Shepherd's  Voice  —When  it 
comes  to  the  Gospel,  I  feel  more  positive. 
Why  did  the  Savior  say:  "My  sheep 
know  my  voice?"  Can  a  sheep  know  the 
voice  of  its  shepherd,  if  it  has  never  heard 
that  voice  before?  They  who  love  Truth, 
and  to  whom  it  appeals  most  powerfully, 
were  they  not  its  best  friends  in  a  pre- 
vious state  of  existence?  I  think  so.  I 
believe  that  we  knew  the  Gospel  before 
we  came  here,  and  it  is  this  knowledge, 
this  acquaintance,  that  gives  to  it  a  fa- 
miliar sound.

LESSON  DEPARTMENT 
849 
Very  much  in  the  same  vein,  I  once 
wrote  to  President  Joseph  F.  Smith  —  he 
at  the  time  in  Utah,  and  I  on  a  mission 
in  Europe.     Here  is  his  reply: 
President  Smith's  View 
I  heartily  endorse  your  sentiments  re- 
specting congeniality  of  spirits.  Our  knowl- 
edge of  persons  and  things  before  we  came 
here,  combined  with  the  divinity  awak- 
ened within  our  souls  through  obedience 
to  the  gospel,  powerfully  affects,  in  my 
opinion,  all  our  likes  and  dislikes,  and 
guides  our  preferences  in  the  course  of 
this  life,  provided  we  give  careful  heed 
to  the  admonitions  of  the  Spirit. 
All  those  salient  truths  which  come 
home  so  forcibly  to  the  head  and  heart 
seem  but  the  awakening  of  the  memories 
of  the  spirit.  Can  we  know  anything  here 
that  we  did  not  know  before  we  came? 
Are  not  the  means  of  knowledge  in  the 
first  estate  equal  to  those  of  this?  I  think 
that  the  spirit,  before  and  after  this  pro- 
bation, possesses  greater  facilities,  aye,  man- 
ifold greater,  for  the  acquisition  of  knowl- 
edge, than  while  manacled  and  shut  up 
in  the  prison-house  of  mortality.  I  be- 
lieve that  our  Savior  possessed  a  fore- 
knowledge of  all  the  vicissitudes  through 
which  he  would  have  to  pass  in  the 
mortal  tabernacle.  .  .  . 
If  Christ  knew  beforehand,  so  did  we. 
But  in  coming  here,  we  forgot  all,  that  our 
agency  might  be  free  indeed,  to  choose 
good  or  evil,  that  we  might  merit  the 
reward  of  our  own  choice  and  conduct. 
But  by  the  power  of  the  Spirit,  in  the 
redemption  of  Christ,  through  obedience, 
we  often  catch  a  spark  from  the  awakened 
memories  of  the  immortal  soul,  which 
lights  up  our  whole  being  as  with  the  glory 
of  our  former  home  (Saturday  Night 
Thoughts,  pp.  294-296.  See  also,  Gospel 
Doctrine,  pp.   12-14). 
Among  other  things  from  the 
foregoing,  we  understand  that  tal- 
ents were  a  part  of  ourselves  in  pre- 
mortality,  that  character-traits  were 
formed  there,  that  abilities,  such  as 
to  believe  in  or  accept  truth,  are 
brought  to  this  life.  The  great  truth, 
allowing  for  environmental  factors 
here,  is  that  we  are  very  much  the 
same  as  we  were  in  the  pre-exist- 
ence. 
Improve  Each  Moment 
Each  stage  of  our  eternal  exist- 
ence —  pre-existence,  earth  life,  and 
the  spirit  world  —  is  an  opportunity 
stage  to  develop  talents.  We  are 
here,  but  we  are  now  body  and 
spirit.  The  talents  we  bring  with 
us  must  also  become  a  part  of  the 
whole  person.  Our  knowledge  of 
the  pre-earth  life  is  presently  gone, 
but  the  influence  of  that  life  is  felt. 
Nevertheless,  we  are  to  take  what 
we  have  and  grow  and  develop.  It 
is  the  use  we  make  of  our  natural 
endowments  that  will  determine 
whether  we  shall  eventually  be 
called    a   wise    or  slothful   servant. 
Although  each  person  is  what 
he  was  in  pre-existence  and,  thus, 
different  from  others,  all  have  tal- 
ents to  use  in  the  Lord's  work.  It 
doesn't  matter  what  we  may  think 
of  our  abilities;  we  have  ability 
which  should  be  used. 
Parable  of  the  Talents 
The  Savior  gave  two  parables  that 
emphasize  the  need  to  develop 
one's  talents.  The  parable  of  the 
Entrusted  Talent  tells  of  the  man 
who  gave  talents  (goods)  to  his 
servants.  To  one  he  gave  five  tal- 
ents, to  another  two,  and  to  the  last, 
only  one.  The  doubling  of  their 
talents  by  the  first  two  brought  forth 
the  same  commendation. 
.  .  .  Well  done,  good  and  faithful  serv- 
ant; thou  hast  been  faithful  over  a  few 
things,  I  will  make  thee  ruler  over  many 
things:  enter  thou  into  the  joy  of  thy 
Lord   (Matt.   25:23).

850 
RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE— NOVEMBER  1962 
These  two  servants  had  used  their 
talents  wisely,  though  they  were 
different.  But  the  servant  who  re- 
ceived one  talent  had  buried  it  in 
the  ground,  fearful  that  it  might  be 
lost.  The  reply  of  the  master  was 
''.  .  .  thou  wicked  and  slothful  serv- 
ant .  .  "  (Ibid.,  verse  26;  Talmage, 
James  E.:  Jesus  the  Christ,  pp.  580- 
584)- 
Latter-day  Saints  may  think  of 
talents  as  blessings,  since  we  have 
an  opportunity  to  develop  them  in 
the  Church,  which  provides  the 
means  for  us  to  increase  all  good 
gifts.  When  we  fail  to  take  the 
opportunities  to  assist  in  the  fur- 
thering of  the  Lord's  work,  we  are 
slothful  servants.  The  Prophet 
Joseph  Smith  said: 
.  .  .  Blessings  offered,  but  rejected,  are 
no  longer  blessings,  but  become  like  the 
talent  hid  in  the  earth  by  the  wicked  and 
slothful  servant;  the  proffered  good  re- 
turns to  the  giver;  the  blessing  is  be- 
stowed on  those  who  will  receive  and 
occupy;  for  unto  him  that  hath  shall  be 
given,  and  he  shall  have  abundantly,  but 
unto  him  that  hath  not  or  will  not  re- 
ceive, shall  be  taken  away  that  which  he 
hath,  or  might  have  had  {Teachings  of 
the  Piophet  Joseph  Smith,  page  257). 
The  Gifts  of  the  Holy  Ghost 
Every  Latter-day  Saint  has  the 
privilege  of  receiving  one  or  more 
gifts  of  the  Holy  Ghost.  (D  &  C 
46:11-12;  Lesson  32,  ReUei  Society 
Magazine,  February  1961.)  He  does 
not  know  his  latent  talents  nor  the 
gifts  of  the  Spirit;  consequently,  he 
must  earnestly  seek  after  the  best 
gifts,  remembering  the  purposes  for 
which  they  are  given,  that  he  may 
not  be  deceived.  If  he  does  this, 
he  will  exert  his  best  efforts  to  ad- 
vance his  own  salvation  and  that  of 
his  fellow  men.  (D  &  C  46:7-10.) 
In  the  case  of  the  elders  with 
whom  the  Lord  was  displeased  be- 
cause they  feared  man  and  there- 
fore would  not  use  their  talent  to 
preach  and  testify  {Ibid.,  60:1-2), 
he  said: 
And  it  shall  come  to  pass,  if  they  are 
not  more  faithful  unto  me,  it  shall  be 
taken  away,  even  that  which  they  have 
[Ibid.,  verse  3). 
One  can  believe  that  if  these  eld- 
ers had  courageously  taught  the 
gospel,  the  Lord  would  have 
sustained  them  as  he  told  Joseph 
Smith  he  would  uphold  him  against 
the  adversary.  {Ibid.,  3:7-8.) 
He  who  does  not  develop  his 
talents  and  gifts  is  declared  by  the 
Lord  to  be  an  idler.  Those  who 
were  to  come  to  Zion  in  1831  were 
told  that  they  should  not  idle  away 
their  time,  nor  bury  their  talent. 
{Ibid.,  60:13.) 
The  Lord  Rules 
All  scripture  proclaims  the  truth 
that  God  is  sovereign  in  this  world. 
The  revealed  fact  that  God  is  all- 
knowing  and  all-powerful,  that  he 
knows  the  destiny  of  individuals 
and  nations,  makes  him  supreme. 
It  is  this  assurance  that  gives  to  the 
believer  the  faith  to  put  his  full 
trust  in  the  ultimate  victory  of  truth. 
The  Lord  rules  among  the  armies 
of  the  earth,  and  the  day  will  come 
when  all  men  shall  know  of  his 
power.  (D  &  C  60:4.)  In  1831, 
this  truth  served  to  bolster  the  cour- 
age of  those  who  were  weak  in  not 
testifying  to  the  truth;  but  this  is 
not  its  only  purpose,  for  one  rea- 
lizes that  God  shapes  the  destinies 
of  man  and  nations.  God  has  prom- 
ised peace  and  prosperity  to  those 
who  serve  him  diligently,  but  wrath

LESSON  DEPARTMENT  851 
and  indignation  upon  those  people  given  at  the  time  and  according  to 
who    transgress    his    laws.      (Ibid.,  the  circumstances.    The  missionary 
59:23;  39:16-18.)  is  to  be  guided  by  love  and  patience 
The  power  of  the  Lord  will  be  in  all  things.     It  would  seem  that 
known  v/hen  his  fury  is  unleashed  the  elder  would  follow  the  counsel 
upon     the    unrepentant.     {D  &:  C  given    to    Hyrum    Smith,    that    he 
29:17-20;    88:88-92.)       When    the  should  be  directed  by  the  Spirit  in 
last  great  conflict  is  ended  at  the  all  things.     (D  &  C  11:12.)  In  the 
close  of  the  millennium,  the  Lord's  final  analysis,  the  gospel  is  one  of 
power  will  be   fully  demonstrated,  love,  but  there  may  be  conditions 
{Ihid.,   43:22-30;    88:111-116.)      At  such  as  persecution  or  violence  to- 
the  time  Christ  declares  his  work  ward  the  elder,  that  would  give  rise 
finished,  his  jewels,  the  people  of  to  the  use  of  the  ceremony,  if  di- 
God,  will  have  been  gathered   to-  rected  by  the  Spirit, 
gether  for  time  and  eternity.    [Ihid., 
60:4;  88:106.)  Section  62— Testimony 
It  was  from  Section  62  that  we 
Siiaice  Dust  Off  beet  learned  the  meaning  of  "congrega- 
The   testimony   of   the   Spirit   is  tions   of   the  wicked."     The   Lord 
powerful.      Its      consequences     are  remmds  his  people  that  his  knowl- 
always    expressed   with    power.      A  edge  includes  an  understanding  of 
testimony  rejected  leads  eventually,  nian's  weaknesses  and  also  that  he 
unless  repented  of,  to  loss  of  great  ^^ows  the  way  that  man  may  be 
blessings.    For  the  first  time  in  the  rescued   from    falling   into   tempta- 
Doctrmc  and   Covenants  we  learn  tion.    (D  &  C  62:1.)     Concerning 
about  an  ancient  practice  of  testi-  the  few  elders  on  their  way  to  Zion 
mony  and  its  attendant  power.  The  in  1831,  he  would  have  them  know 
law   is   given    in    Section    60:15   as  that   they  were  blessed   in   bearing 
shaking    the    dust    off    one's    feet  their  testimonies  to  the  world.  But 
against  those  who  do  not  accept  the  wherein  were  they  blessed? 
missionary.    This  ceremony  is  to  be 
performed  in   secret.     The  washing  Nevertheless,    ye    are    blessed,    for    the 
of    the    feet    is    a    testimony   against  testimony  which  ye  have  borne  is  recorded 
the  person  in  the  day  of  judgment.  ^"  ,^^T'^"  ^°'  *^^  ^"^'^'  ^"^  i"""^  ''P''"' 
/  Til      ^                  o         \       rrni            1  and   they  re  pice   over  you,   and  your  sins 
(ibid.,    60:15;    1:8-10.)       Thus    the  are  forgiven  you   (/bid.,  verse  3). 
missionary  has  power  to  seal  up  the 
rebellious  until  the  time  of  wrath.  This   passage  points   up   the   im- 
This  was  true  in  the  Old  Testament  portance  of  being  in  the  service  of 
period  as  well  as  in  the  time  of  Jesus  one's  fellow  men.    In  this  dispensa- 
and  the  apostles.     (Nehemiah  5:13;  tion  the  Lord  has  emphasized  the 
Matt.    10:14;   Luke    10:10-11;  Acts  need  for  missionary  work,  a  service 
13:51;    18:6.)      The    testimony    of  of    love    for    fellow    man.     {Ibid., 
warning  is  a  part  of  the  plan  in  this  15:6.)     When  a  person  speaks  by 
dispensation.     (D&C  84:87-95;  75:  the  power  of  the  Holy  Ghost,  that 
20-21;  99:4.)  Spirit  testifies  to  the  truth  spoken. 
When  should  this  ceremony  be  (2  Nephi  33:1.)     When  such  testi- 
performed?     The  answer  must  be  monies  are  uttered  they  are  recorded