[Vol49 | November 1962 | Sequence: 29 | Category: Poem | Title: The Mendicant Hour | Author: Lucille R. Perry]
JUenMcant  cHour 
Lucille  R.  Perry 
Penury  has  descended  on  our  hill. 
Now  that  the  gold  coin  of  slender  trees  has  paid 
Our  summer  debts,  frail  wisps  of  scorched  leaves  fill 
The  dry  creek's  rocky  bowl,  and  they  are  laid 
Between  the  new  wind's  whisper  and  brown  grass, 
To  murmur  discontent  when  wild  things  pass. 
Bright  as  the  proud  cock  preened,  the  former  wood, 
With  foliage  fluffed  to  catch  the  rays  of  light; 
Brown  as  his  little  hen,  now,  thickets  brood 
Where  winds  have  stripped  them  naked  in  the  night. 
Raising  their  forked  limbs  to  supplicate  each  cloud 
For  the  white  ease  of  winter's  restful  shroud. 
The  Cover  \  Japanese  Relief  Society  Sisters  at  Chinzanso  Park,  North  Tokyo,  Japan 
Color  transparency  by  Gary  J.  Horton,  submitted  by  Frances  P. 
'  Andrus,  Former  President,  Northern  Far  East  Mission  Relief  Society 
Frontispiece     First  Snow  in  Provo  Canyon,  Utah 
Photograph  by  Willard  Luce 
Art  Layout     Dick  Scopes 
Cover     Lithographed  in  Full  Color  by  Deseret  News  Press

'/vm/< 
Wc  are  all  delighted  with  the  new  color 
and  pictures  coming  out  in  our  Relief 
Society  Magazine.  The  August  insert 
"Jerusalem,  City  of  Peace,"  by  Christine 
II.  Robinson,  together  with  the  lovely 
photographs  by  Dr.  O.  Preston  Robinson, 
will  prove  invaluable.  The  editorial  "In 
the  Family  There  Is  Strength"  is  beautiful- 
ly worded  and  so  true  —  how  brief  are 
the  days  with  our  families. 
— Mabel  Jones  Gabbott 
Bountiful,  Utah 
I  must  tell  you  how  I  love  our  Relief 
Society  Magazine.  I  have  been  a  member 
of  the  Church  for  two  years,  and  a  mem- 
ber of  Relief  Society  for  the  same  length 
of  time.  I  have  so  much  enjoyed  the 
article  "Jesus  and  the  Land  He  Loved," 
by  Christine  H.  Robinsin,  in  the  July  issue 
of  the  Magazine,  and  also  the  beautiful 
photographs  by  Dr.  O.  Preston  Robinson. 
— Margaret  Lockwood 
Montagu  Bay 
Tasmania,  Australia 
The  pictures  and  article  "Jerusalem, 
City  of  Peace"  (by  Dr.  O.  Preston  Robin- 
son and  Christine  H.  Robinson,  August 
1962)  are  truly  beautiful.  The  Relief  So- 
ciety Magazine  supplies  the  spiritual  uplift 
that  I  stand  very  much  in  need  of  from 
time  to  time. 
— Mrs.  Selma  Bodtcher 
North  Hollywood,  California 
The  poem  sequence  "Portrait  of  Free- 
dom," by  Alberta  Huish  Christensen,  in 
the  September  issue  of  The  Relief  Society 
Magazine  is  a  tremendous  accomplishment 
—  to  me,  a  real  work  of  art.  I  am  so 
grateful  for  the  way  it  was  set  up  and 
illustrated.  The  page  layouts  are  so  lovely 
and  appropriate.  Every  month  the  Maga- 
zine is  beautiful  from  cover  to  cover. 
— Evada  Bitler 
Idaho  Falls,  Idaho 
I  must  comment  on  our  wonderful  Ke- 
lief  Society  Magazine.  Oh,  how  lovely  the 
July  issue  was.  The  flood  story  (by 
Frances  C.  Yost,  of  Bancroft,  Idaho) 
made  me  cry.  I  can  well  imagine  the  joy 
in  those  sisters'  hearts.  Thank  the  Lord 
for  our  sisters  in  the  gospel.  I  love  every 
one  of  them. 
— Mrs.  Olive  Moore 
Melbourne,  Australia 
My  family  is  just  like  that  of  Vilate 
McAllister  ("My  Family  Likes  All  Kinds 
of  I'ruit  —  Just  So  They  Are  Peaches," 
August  1962).  I  always  thoroughly  enjoy 
my  Relief  Society  Magazine,  from  the 
articles,  recipes,  and  sewing  tips,  right 
down  through  the  lessons  and  poems.  Sev- 
eral times  in  the  past  few  years  my  sons 
have  used  the  Magazine  for  a  specific 
poem  they  needed  for  school. 
— Mary  L.  Allred 
Saratoga,  Wyoming 
Please  convey  my  thanks  to  Mabel  Jones 
Gabbott  for  her  wonderful  poem  "Before 
the  Word  Goes  Forth"  (June  1962).  I 
have  reread  it  with  deep  pleasure  many 
times.  Its  mingled  beauty  and  wisdom 
are  poetry  at  its  best. 
— Ina  Hobson 
El  Cajon,  California 
I  have  so  much  enjoyed  reading  my
