Speaking of Girls
By Harrison R. Merrill
When I was a boy I was unsophisticated enough to believe that the dainty manner in which that tantalizing curl hung down on Mary's forehead or protruded from the corner of Josephine's cap was entirely accidental. I know better now. Charming girls are made as well as born; in fact, I think they are mostly made. And I don't mind that in the least, provided the job of making is well and artistically done.
The Associated Women's Organization of Brigham Young University, directed by Miss Caroline Eyring, president, and Miss Audrey Ostlund, vice-president, has been attempting, through a series of programs during the year, to assist B. Y. U. girls to de-
MISS CAROLINE EYRING MISS AUDREY OSTLUND
velop charm of personality. I like their ideas, for they are beginning, not with the curls and other exterior decorations of the young lady, but with the interior decorations of the skull?the brain. They believe that the quality called charm must have its roots deep if it is to continue under close acquaintance to be charm.
The climax of this drive for personality will come on May 3, Girls' Day. An elaborate program, which will begin with the Girls' play on the evening of May 2, and end with the Girls' Day Ball on May 3, has been prepared. One of the features of the occasion will be the banquet at noon on Friday, May 3, when eight
SPEAKING OF GIRLS 269
ladies chosen for their charm in various fields of activity will be special guests of honor. These guests are: Alice Louise Reynolds, chosen for her intellectual charm; Elsie C. Carroll, for her sympathy; Jennie Brimhall Knight, for her culture; Stella S. Harris, for her companionable understanding; Sina Holbrook, for her home interest; Achsa Eggertsen Paxman, for her public service; Lydia Candland, for her cheerfulness; and Margaret Summerhays, for her artistic development.
This activity on the part of these young ladies organized at Brigham Young University leads me to believe that they know the value of the mythical thing Mrs. Glynn named IT and that they are out after IT. After all, no amount of form or color or curls can make up for that internal light which shines out of the eyes and speaks from the lips; therefore I am of the opinion that the young co-eds are on an interesting trail which eventually will lead them up to beautiful living.
I am only sorry that the women have become the stronger sex. They work so assiduously for personal feminine charm, and do it so openly, that they have "sold" the idea to many of the young men who, instead of attempting to become more masculine and more commanding, have aped the ways of their sisters and have become perfumed and powdered shadows of their progenitors.
Speaking of girls, I am convinced that they will continue to rule the world. From the back seat it may be, or from the home possibly, but rule it they will, at least all of the world really worth while.
The Stork
By Mrs. Grace Woodbury
He's a queer old bird; he seems to thrive In climates everywhere; Be it hot or cold, or damp or dry, He doesn't seem to care.
From Canada to Florida, From Seattle to New York; He flies and flies, yet never tires? This queer old bird, the Stork.
You'd think that when the day was warm, And other birds were out, That then would be the time he'd flap His wings and fly about.
 
But no; I've often noticed that When he's out for a lark, Delivering babies 'round to folks, He'd rather have it dark.
Some days, oh, how his bill does ache! His wings are tired, too; Of babies yet to be bestowed, There still are quite a few.
'Tis then he doubles up his load, And hurries like the winds; That's why it is some folks get left, While other folks get twins.
Of course, this stork is rather old, And his habits seem quite set; His memory may be faulty, too; Quite often he'll forget.
That 'twas the shortest while ago He called on you; and then He'll up and bring another one? Six, seven, eight, nine, ten.
It's funny how the poorest folks Are honored by this bird. He keeps a bringing babies round, Till he's brought them 'most a herd
Of the nicest kind of boys and girls, With smiles and joy and health; He wants to make it up to them For being short on wealth.
Today we bring the honor due To this welcome, generous bird; For over Nichole's happy home His flapping wings are heard.
He is coming with the springtime, With the Robin and the Wren. Let us make his welcome royal, so He'll be glad to come again.