[Vol10 | May 1923 | Sequence: 21 | Category: Notes from Field | Title: Notes From the Field Amy Brown Lyman]

Notes from the Field Amy Brown Lyman European Mission. The Relief Society work of the European mission is now under the direction of Mrs. Emma Ray McKay, wife of David O. McKay, of the Council of the Twelve, In a letter to President Clarissa S. Williams, Mrs. McKay reports that a special effort is being made to make the lesson work of the Relief Society more uniform. Mrs. McKay states that the women of the Relief Society are very active in their sewing work, and that they are accomplishing a great deal of good by making useful articles of clothing. They conduct bazaars and socials by which they raise the necessary means to carry on the Relief Society work. Northern States Mission. The General Board has been advised that Mrs. Rachel Grant Taylor, in accord with its request, has been appointed to preside over the Relief Societies of the Northern States mission. Her husband, John H. Taylor, who is the newly appointed president of this mission, states that the Relief Society work is in good condition and that he and Mrs. Taylor have been pleased with the visits they have made to the various branches. Mrs. Taylor succeeds Mrs. Emily Whitney Smith, who has returned to Salt Lake with her husband, Winslow F. Smith, who preceded Dr. Taylor as president of this mission. Los Angeles Stake. On January 21, 1923, the Los Angeles stake was organized by President Heber J. Grant. This new stake, which is comprised of some of the branches of the California mission, now organized into wards, is the eighty-eighth stake of the Church. Mrs. Katherine Romney Stewart was selected as stake president of the Relief Society. Mrs. Stewart was formerly of Salt Lake and was a counselor on the Ensign stake Relief Society board. Utah Stake. The members of the Utah stake Relief Society hoard gave a banquet at the Brigham Young University Art Gallery, T hursday evening, in honor of the stake presidency, the high counici!, and their wives, and the presidencies of the various auxiliary organizations and their partners. The affair was thoroughly enjoyed by all present. NOTES FROM THE FIELD 257 Pocatello Stake. A letter from the Pocatello stake Relief Society has been received by the General Board, which reports some of the activities of this stake during last year: "We have in the Pocatello stake twelve fully organized ward societies. During the year 1922 very successful ward conferences were held, the programs being made as instructive and interesting as possible. Social gatherings were held when a fifth Tuesday occurred,. And occasionally the second Tuesday was used for a social after the work and business had been completed. During the early fall months every ward held a bazaar. All the wards were extremely successful in obtaining contributions of useful clothing and beautiful pieces of embroidery work. In July and August, two general meetings were held under the auspices of the stake board; special features of these meetings were lectures, one on 'Home Economics' and another, by Mr. Ezra Meeks, a pioneer of the old Oregon trail." Eastern States Mission. The Charleston, West Virginia branch of the Eastern States mission is an active organization. A picture of this society is RELIEF SOCIETY OF CHARLESTON, WEST VIRGINIA, BRANCH printed herewith. The members are working energetically to assist in securing funds to be applied on the building of a new chapel, which is being planned. During the past year, bazaars, 
 chicken dinners and various other entertainments have been given. One particularly enjoyable affair was a pie supper which is a characteristic entertainment of West Virginia. Already a sum of $450 has been secured for the chapel fund. Efforts are directed also towards caring for the sick and in seeking opportunities to explain the gospel. On October 16, a splendid conference was held and the visit of the mission president of the Relief Society, Mabel Holmgren, was greatly appreciated. North Sevier Stake. Although the North Sevier stake is only two years old, the Relief Society now has an enrollment of three hundred and fifty, which is a forty-nine per cent increase in the last six months. Sixtyfive per cent of the members are subscribers to the Magazine. On February 15, the Relief Societies of the stake were entertained by Redmond ward. This ward was the loser in an attendance contest which was conducted during the last six months of 1922. The Vermillion Relief Soc'ety won the contest and received two splendid books as a prize. Morgan Stake. During the first three months of this year Relief Society conferences were held in every ward of the Morgan stake. All the conferences were well represented and stake officers were present at every meeting. A special assignment in Scriptural reading has been made in the wards. All members were asked to read the Pearl of Great Price during the month of March, and they will be asked to read the Doctrine and Covenants during the months of April, May and June. Anniversary Day was 'commemorated in some of the wards. The South Morgan society gave a; ball on the evening of the seventeenth of March. On that day Mrs. Clarence E. Rich, one of the Morgan stake Relief Society board members, received congratulations from her friends upon the arrival in her home of a pair of twin boys. Logan Stake. In the Logan stake a day a month was set apart during the year 1922 as a temple day. This has stimulated an interest in temple work and many of the members have made special effort to attend on Relief Society day. One of the wards averaged ten days spent in temple work for each enrolled member. The River Heights ward has inaugurated a plan whereby the Bee Hive Girls go to the different homes to care for the babies and young children while the mothers attend Relief Society. The girls in this way fill cells for their Bee Hive work and give the mothers the opportunity to attend Relief Society meeting. NOTES FROM THE FIELD i) St. Joseph Stake. On January 6, 1923, the board members of the St. Joseph stake Relief Society entertained the officers and teachers of the various wards in connection with the regular Union meeting. The program consisted of songs, recitations, and toasts after which refreshments were served. The board wished to show its appreciation to the officers of the wards for the many courtesies extended to the board members when they visit the different societies. Stake President Andrew Kimball was in attendance at the social and every one seemed. To enjoy the affair very much. Sevier Stake. An elaborate pageant, representing four epochs in the development of the Relief Society, was presented by the Sevier stake. After. The. Pageant a social was given which included a dance and an interesting grand march. Many of the persons taking part were in character costume. In the stake the wards have. Each given an entertainment of some kind to make possible the establishment of a temple and burial clothes department. Franklin Stake. Doctor Heber J. Sears, of the University of UtahHealth department, was secured by the Franklin stake Relief Seciety to visit Preston and give a series of health lectures. The Isis theatre was secured and his lectures were greatly appreciated and very well attended. He spoke on (1) The Boy Problem, (2) The Miracle of Motherhood, and (3) -The Beginning of Life. All three lectures were illustrated with pictures. He also distributed some government bulletins on health topics which were found to be very beneficial and enlightening, Central States Mission. Mrs. Charlotte T. Bennion, president of the Relief Societies of the Central States mission, reports that on F ebruary 21, a Relief Society was organized in Wathena, Kansas, with twelve members, A rather unique condition exists in this district as the husbands of these women are not members of the Church. These women have been united in their efforts and they have succeeded, with the help of their husbands, in building a splendid little church house. Salt -Lake Stake. Anniversary day of the Relief Society, was celebrated by the Salt Lake stake, in the Twenty-second ward chapel, on Saturday, March 17. A program, consisting of songs, recitations, and games 
 was given and refreshments were served. About five hundred members were present. New Zealand Mission President Clarissa S. Williams, has received a letter from Ida A. Taylor, president of the Relief Society of the New Zealand mission. The letter tells of the activities in this far away mission. Part of the letter reads: "We have had a very pleasant year and feel that we have had some success with our work. We have thirty-one organizations at present. Some are just in their infancy but are doing very nicely. "In general we have but two meetings a month; a few societies hold weekly meetings. Of the two, one is a theological lesson and the other a work and testimony meeting. Our lesson is printed in the Maori in the mission paper. 'We are adapting it NEW ZEALAND MISSION RELIEF SOCIETY BOARD from the Magazine as far as possible. In the organizations composed of European women the Magazine lessons are used as printed. "During the past year our Hui Atawhae (Relief Society) has contributed 37 pounds in cash and 2 pounds worth of merchandise (about $195) for the purchase of bedding for the benefit of the Maori Agriculture College. The various branches have assisted the local priesthood financially where chapels or amusement halls are being built. Bazaars and concerts have been conducted and various articles have been placed on sale at the Hui Tau (general conference). "There is a good spirit existing among our sisters. Most all the organizations understand English, and in most instances the NOTES FROM THE FIELD 261 secretary reads and writes English very well. We understand one another through the heart if we cannot by the tongue. All our Maori sisters are very much interested in Relief Society work and they particularly enjoy the testimony meetings. At our recent conference the women were so eager to speak that one meeting was almost monopolized by them." A picture of the New Zealand mission board is printed herewith. It was taken at the conference held December 22-26. In Memoriam Twin Falls Stake. The Relief Society of Twin Falls stake sustained a real loss in the death, on September 23, 1922, of one of its loyal members, Anna Hopkins Lamoreaux. Mrs. Lamoreaux was born February 4, 1866, at Smithfield, Utah, and spent the best years of her life in pioneering the waste places of Zion. She married when she was twenty-eight and moved with her husband, Henry C. Lamoreaux, from Preston to Teton Basin, Idaho. She was made secretary of the Relief Society at its first organization there. Among the positions of importance she held in this locality were school trustee and postmistress. In 1908, she moved with her husband to Twin Falls, assuming the secretaryship of the first Relief Society organized there. Later, she was sustained as counselor in this ward. When Twin Falls stake was organized she was chosen a member of the Relief Society stake board. She is the mother of six children, five of whom, survive her. She died as she had lived—with a strong testimony of the gospel in her heart. St. George Stake. Mrs. Alvina Graf Wittwer, of Santa Clara ward, passed away on March 1, 1923. She was a devoted Relief Society worker, having served as secretary of the ward organization for the past four years. She loved Relief Society work and was always faithful in the discharge of her duties and was interested and diligent in the preparation of the lesson work. At the time of her death she was president of the Young Ladies Mutual Improvement Association, and during the war she served as president of the local Red Cross chapter. Mrs. Wittwer was born at Santa Clara, October 27, 1876. She married John Samuel Wittwer, of Santa Clara, and five children were born to them. The splendid virtue of thoroughness characterized her everywhere, in her home responsibilities as wel as in her public service. Her unfailing support and cheery presence will be greatly missed by the Relief Society women and by the entire conununity.