[Vol10 | May 1923 | Sequence: 02 | Category: Article | Title: The Mocking Bird Annie Pike Greenwood]

THE MOCKING-BIRD Annie Pike Greenwood Hark in the orchard! Thus begins the play: The raucous, scraping fiddle of the jay; The nightingale has brought a silver flute; The meadow-lark his melancholy lute; The liquid speech of robin, and a note Of lamentation from the mourning throat Of some domestic dove. Who speaks so clear Of, "Pretty! Pretty! Pretty! Come thou here!''? "Tis but an elfin whistle worded so Some little, trembling, waiting heart may know. Silence.—And then a wicked sound of glee— Demoniac chuckling in the apple-tree. Who is this mocker who has dared to flout Such happy music with unhappy doubt? A pair of wings, cream-tinted, swim the air; The play is o'er, the orchard theatre bare: Musician, singer, lover, these were one With him who ended all in graceless fun. Artist or clown, jester or poet-bird, It cannot be our listening hearts were stirred By some slight trickery which thy brothers scorn: Thou art a genius—thou the son of morn! O mocking-bird! Learn thou the lesson hard ('That comes, alas! To many a human bard!) Better thine own small, happy song unheard Than the interpreter of every bird; Mimic them all, and mock them all in turn— So shalt thy restless heart forever burn. They have reality, and thou the play— Seek thou thy mate while yet it is the May. Better a song of home, safe in the nest, Than faring far as everybody's guest. Hast thou, O mocking-bird, a song thine own?— Then go!—and sing it to thy mate alone. Foot Note.——Not long after Annie Pike Greenwood's marriage she moved to the state of Kansas. During the period of her residence in Garden City, Kansas, she lived in a large house surrounded by an orchard. Close to her window was an apple tree to which a mocking-bird made frequent visits. One day after listening to its singing she wrote the poem called "The Mocking-Bird." This poem has great literary merit; fortunately the writer has chosen a bird that few other poets have written of. Poems to the meadow-lark, the sky-lark and the nightingale are frequently found in our literature; we welcome this poem dedicated to a bird that has seldom stirred the poet's soul. This poem we feel will be appreciated not only by those who are lovers of poetry, perhaps it will be equally prized by those who love nature and love the artist's interpretation of nature—Editors.