[Music: Music Appreciation Programs for Relief Society and the Home by Florence Jepperson Madsen]

Musical performances and talks in the Family Hour. (c) Music Club programs. Suggested Subjects for Music Appreciation in the Home (a) Folk songs (b) Folk dances (c) History and evolution of music (d) Oratorios 1. Origin and description, such as "The Messiah," by Handel, and "Elijah," by Mendelssohn 2. Read from texts 3. Discuss the composers 4. Play or sing selections (e) Operas, as "Samson and Delilah," by Saint Saens, "La Boheme," by Puccini 1. Beginnings 2. Stories 3. Composers 4. Selections (performed, or from records) (f) Lives of great singers, as Caruso, Schumann-Heink, Jennie Lind, Patti, or others. (g) Old songs we love to sing, such as, "Juanita," "Love's Old Sweet Song," CEC. (h) Musical instruments, such as: organ, harp, flute, violin, piano. 1, Origin 2. Evolution 3. Characteristics 4
Uses (i) Lullabies and songs for children to sing (j) Guessing games for children, with pictures of instruments, and perhaps, records to demonstrate them Most of the suggestions for music appreciation in the home can be found in What We Hear in Music, by Anne Shaw Faulkner, Victor Company, Camden, New Jersey. <>. She Lost Words Dorothy J. Roberts Somewhere I have lost the sweet refrain Of words we murmured on the air of dusk, So quietly their airy chords have lain Like treasured raiment folded long in musk.
Wound within the year's pale cloth of mist Your voice, in its lavender, eludes my mind, It is beyond the reach of the brain to list Those tender syllables which once it twined.
Your call is muted on the cherry slope, Though moon-dust sprays as then the early night.
Only the wells of longing leap, and hope Still probes the shadows for a lane of light. No sound...
Only firelight starred within your eyes And strength your fingers closed around my own Keep silent tryst with me while memory cries Down autumn avenues your words have flown. G row Old Splendidly Evelyn Wooster Viner [pease a recent trip I stopped to see an old friend who had celebrated his ninetieth birthday some months earlier. His wife had passed away since we last met, so it was surprising to find him ensconced in a bright, new home. When I voiced amazement he told me how it happened. "I never intended to sell the old place," he said, "'but it was pretty lonely after my wife was gone. My son was building a new home and he wanted me to live with them. He built me a room—built it exactly as I wanted it. So I sold out and went there. I stayed a year. One day I said to myself, this is no life for me.
Every morning they all went to work, and I was alone with nothing to do but read the paper. So I came back here and built this house." "You built it!" I exclaimed. "Yes, I did most of the work," he said with satisfaction. 'The outside doesn't look like much yet, but by next year I'll have it fixed." He made the statement with as much certainty as one might have expected of a young man just starting out. An old lady whom I often visited was bedfast between the ages of eighty-seven and ninety-five.
Unable to be about the active duties of the household, she occupied her time making rugs, quilts, table mats, and doilies. She also did hand sewing on the family clothing. She studicd the scriptures a great deal and was informed upon the questions of the day. It was not strange that at ninety-five her mind was as clear as that of any young person. Two sisters, one a frail little person of ninety, and the other blind at eighty-six, were great students of Shakespeare. 'They also took a keen interest in national and international affairs. I never tried to match wits with either of them, for I should certainly have been the loser if I had done so.
With observation, it becomes obvious that we retain our mental capabilities better if we keep our minds busy with something worthwhile. 'There is no reason why age should make us indifferent—without aspiration, and living only in the past. We can as easily live rich, forward-looking lives.
Interest and activity are not for the young alone.
They are for all ages. Let us grow old splendidly.
1 1 Count (flood