[by Beatrice K. Ekman,]

Beatrice K. Ekman Up from the forest-fringe at timberline, Above near hills where firs stand, row on row, A glazed, white apron covers the steep incline To Mount Hood's sloping shoulders, heaped with snow.
Along the sky's blue mm, long cloud-bars float; Wreaths of smoke-fog drift through the hillside trees, A ruff of fog clings to the mountain's throat, And soft wool clouds are draped across her knees.  
788 
Hour of Decision (Continued from page 741) It was a moment of truth, of revelation, and Adele held her breath. Jonathan's face was inscrutable, but his attention was fully caught. Lois was watching him with mingled hope and fear.' Lafe's voice changed and he went on, as if to bolster himself with words. "That's the trouble with the Church, though. They ask too much of their members. You take a young fellow like I was then, trying to get a start in a profession, wanting to get married, and ask him to pay his own way on a mission— well " He turned fully to Jonathan, who was studying him. "What do you say, young fellow? Too much to ask, don't you think?" "No," said Jonathan shortly. "T do not." Later, when the children had gone on their respective ways, the younger ones to bed and the older ones on their dates, and the Higginses were preparing to leave after an interesting evening, Lafe gave Adele a penetrating look and said: "I hope I gave a satisfactory performance as exhibit A, and that the young scamp will not give you any more trouble, but will accept that mission call." Adele caught her breath and felt the red creeping up over her face. "Lafe, how could you? Who told you...?" Lafe laughed. "It was there— on all of your faces." Adele reached her hand to Lafe. "No wonder you have gone so far te EU NNN CHRISTMAS CANTATAS YUYLINLIY UU NULL uw io) i oe aNtrgattngattegantegnttngattagettngnttngntengattagatte attngnttegtt for Relief Society Choruses a Carols of Christmas—Lorenz _..80 | Christmas Messiah—Handel.80 a Dawn of Christmas—Nolte.80 _= Music of Bethlehem—Holton.80 _ Prepare Him Room—Hadler.80 -_ Song of the Holy Night (Two Part)—Wilson__ -..80 -_ Wondrous Story—Kountz._.60
Music Sent On Approval WE PAY POSTAGE Use this advertisement as your order blank DAYNES MUSIC COMPANY 45-47
South Main Salt Lake City 1, Utah Please send postpaid the music indicated | above. CJ On Approval [] Charge OC) Money Enclosed Da FIRST OF ALL — RELIABILITY 45-47 SQUTH MAIN STREET SALT LAKE CITY §, UTAH HOUR OF DECISION in your profession and gained so many honors." "Honors can be empty, Adele. You can't go far enough to get away once you've been a really good Latter-day Saint." "Why don't you come with us to Sunday School in the morning?" Adele spoke impulsively. "It would seem like old times," said Lafe, putting an arm across his wife's shoulders, "but it rests with her. What do you say, Thelma? Shall we go to Sunday School?" "T think we had better," 'Thelma answered, the fear going out of her eyes. "I'm curious to see a superintendent." * OK OK XK "VWOU'RE quite a woman," said Tom in affectionate admiration when they had gone. "I hope Jonathan didn't catch on that you were trying to manage him." "If it was that apparent to Lafe," Adele began, and then couldn't go on for the fear that clamped her heart. Jonathan was on the telephone early the next morning as she and Tom came down the stairs. "Mr. Stallings?" he was saying, and 'T'om's hand gripped hers, "I'm sorry, Sir, but I can't take that job tomorrow. My bishop has asked me to go on a mission." They watched his face light up as he listened and heard his mumbled thanks, before he cradled the receiver. "Mr. Stallings says I'm to come to work for him until my call comes 789 L. D. S. MOTHERS ARE UNANIMOUS IN THEIR SINCERE APPRECIATION FOR THESE TWO OUTSTANDING BOOKS BOOK OF MORMON STORIES For Young Latter-day Saints 3.00
Told in simple, easy style, the stories of the Book of Mormon are told to the younger L. D. S. Reader and student in the spirit of the Book of Mormon itself. BIBLE STORIES For Young Latter-day Saints 3.00
Inspirational, rich, your child will love these stirring stories from the Bible, both old and new testaments, beautifully and simply writin especially for young L. D. S. Church memers. NOW! AT YOUR BOOKSTORE OR ORDER DIRECT FROM BOOKCRAFT 1186
South Main SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH Emma Marr Petersen | Emma Marr Petersen through," he told them. "Sometimes it takes two or three months. I didn't know he was a stake president. And then he'll give me leave of absence for my mission, and a job when I come back." "And Lois?" questioned Adele. "That was a close call for Lois and me—for me, all around, but Lois isn't a designing female like you. She didn't go out and drag in horrible examples to convince me. She said she wanted me to make up my own mind without her influence, but I think I know how She felt. But thanks, Mom, anyway,' said Jonathan, coming to put his arms about her, "thanks for hanging onto me until I really became of age." 
790 
Preserve Your Relief Society Magazines For Reference Have your Relief Society Magazines bound into permanent yearly volumes. They are excellent fer reference. Cost is small. Write or phone today for information. Deseret News Press 8 SOUTH MAIN STREET Gd 4-2581
Salt Lake City. Utah MUSIC for Relief Society Singing Mothers By the Waters of Babylon Come Unto Him Like As a Hart Desireth If Ye Love Me, Keep My Commandments O Lord Most Merciful Voice in the Wilderness If With All Your Hearts Praise Ye the Father Peace I Leave With You Invocation Write for favorite selections GLEN BROS. MUSIC CO. 74
South Main Street SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH Memory Kate Richards They say That time erases Absent faces From the memory Of the heart; That always Years will dry The tears, Cleanse. The memory's Bitter part.
There must Be some; Perhaps but one Lone place Where nature slips; For still At night I waken with Your name Upon my lips. Desert Artist Ida Isaacson Under Arizona's desert sky, With scarce save God to hear her sigh, She works upon her Navajo And weaves a tale of long ago.
Before her loom, erect and proud, Aloof as over-hanging cloud, She works upon her Navajo And weaves this tale of long ago. The day is long, the air is dry, Just picot blue in cloud-choked 'sky To ease the pressure of her view While working on this pattern true, This gray and white and red design That she must keep in perfect line. Shere Js No Sound LeRoy Burke Meagher I am lonely.
When autumn's burning Is a mound of ash White upon the hill; No sound or slash Of wings in colored symphony; In the leafless vine No cricket shrill; But this is mine— The certainty Of the slow, sure turning Of a crocus. Reminder Maryhale Woolsey I've missed small Babsie— That lovable bright elf Who seemed a sweeter, daintier Replica of myself Babs in rosebud pinafore Stained with mud-pie batter Angel-sweet in ruffled nightie, Imp-full of bedtime chatter! Barbara, eighteen, and slim and tall, Is princess-lovely, quiet, woman-wise; How startling, now and then, to meet a smile Irom roguish Babsie, out of Barbara's eye. Paeans Pansye H. Powell How good is our life, just for the living, As weeping or smiling we go.
Forever advancing, the strong heart Hears life in the warm, pulsing flow Of music, though wordless, yet singing Great songs of the heart that employ Oboe and trumpet and tuba In paeans of courage and joy! 791 this famous family treat! CHOCOLATES of course, years and yeors of happiness BUY FROM YOUR DEALER A UTAH POWER & LIGHT CO. MESSAGE Srom lear and Sar We are all proud of our splendid Relief Society Magazine. It affords all who read it entertaining, instructive, and uplifting material.
What more could one ask? I am wondering if we appreciate and enjoy the exceptionally fine covers on all the Magazines, or do some of us pass them by unnoticed?
Every issue has a photograph which is a work of art. Let us all enjoy these pictures along with the other good things in our superior Magazine. —Luella N. Adams Salt Lake City, Utah The poem "All Lowly Flowers' by Alice Morrey Bailey (page 624, September 1951) is truly a beautiful thing.
Anyone who can create that much loveliness from the things most despised is a poet indeed. —Agnes Just Reid Firth, Idaho I have been a subscriber to the Magazine for many, many years, and enjoy read ing it from cover to cover each month. —Elizabeth H. Welker Salt Lake City, Utah I look forward so much to receiving the Magazine, and the old copies which a sister loaned to me have been most enjoyable, and my landlady (who is not a member of our Church) reads them, too, and who knows but these Magazines may be the turning point and she may embrace this Church. —Mrs. Janet Piper Palmerston North, New Zealand I am eighty-five years old, and well and healthy. I am Magazine agent and have secured the highest per cent in the stake every year but one for eight years. I have been a visiting teacher ever since I was nineteen years old, have been president of the Y. W. M. LA.
Several years and secretary and president of the ward Relief Society. I don't know how much longer the Lord is going to keep me here. —Alice O. Billings, Vernal, Utah  I surely enjoyed the September Relief Society Magazine, especially Iris W. Schow's poem "Eternal Enchantment" (page 585) and Alice Morrey Bailey's "All Lowly Flowers" (page 624). The editorial on children's literature ("What Shall We Read to Children?'') is very timely. —Frances C. Yost Bancroft, Idaho It is with great interest that I have read the article "Cathedral Valley" in the September Kelief Society Magazine (page 590) by Winifred N. Jones. We are interested in planning a visit to that place in the very near future. —RMrs. Leone P. Bate, Idaho Falls, Idaho One night after Church I picked up one of these cherished Magazines, and as I looked through it, this little poem seemed to run through my mind, so I am sending it in. I would like you to know how much each Magazine means to me. A Welcome Guest I looked within its golden sheets, Each one so full of truth That could charm one old in years Or girls in beauteous youth; It told about the Woman's Sphere, A mother's silent prayer A lesson from the Bible dear, A story told with care. It was my guide, my trusted dream, My beloved. Relief Society Magazine. —Ethel Jones, Bingham Canyon, Utah We subscribe to all the magazines put out by the Church, so we have neither the time nor the inclination to read that which does us no good. I am proud to be able to offer my Relief Society Magazine to others to read, as it will please even the most critical and refined taste.