[Sixty Years Ago]

Sixty Years Ago Excerpts from the Woman's Exponent, November 1, and November 15, 1891 "For THE RIGHTS OF THE WOMEN OF ZION AND THE RIGHTS OF THE WoMEN oF ALL NatTIONs" THE LEAVES ARE FALLING: The poet tells us that the falling of the leaves brings regrets for the beauties and joys that are past, and passing away from us. It is good to be reminded of the sweetness we only half enjoyed, and if a tinge of sadness mingles with it—the deeper it will sink into our hearts and lives, and the more telling will be the lesson it will teach. We all need reminding of the "sunny hours'' that pass all too quickly, and if we had no shadows, no contrast, but were always basking in light and sunshine we should not even know it was the perfection of beauty; what would we know of daybreak if there was no night, would we rejoice as we do in the roseate dawn of each glorious morning if we had not felt the shadows and the darkness?
Certainly not; we can all answer—and would we have the splendor of the gorgeous sunsets, were it not that day is departing and night coming on. And if it were always summer, we should not drink in as we do the resplendent glories of the autumn.—Aunt Em. LOVING WORDS Loving words will cost but little, Journeying up the hill of life; But they make the weak and weary Stronger, braver for the strife. Do you count them only trifles?
What to earth are sun and rain?
Never was a kind word wastéd; Never one was said in vain. — FEAR NOT FOR ZION: Much has been accomplished in the great Latter-day work since coming to these valleys, and there is no doubt much more and greater work yet to be done before the ushering in of the Millennium, and the Lord has said He will do nothing except He reveal it to His servants the prophets. And when they re- ' ceive the word of the Lord, if the Saints are in doubt they should seek for a testimony, or if they have not sufficient humility and faith for that, stand still and watch and pray without ceasing and they will not go far astray; but if they give way to murmuring, the experience of the past has proven most effectually that they will fall into darkness, error and unbelief, and become backsliders, dissatisfied and unhappy. God has not forsaken his faithful saints—Selected ST. JOSEPH STAKE: The quarterly conference of the Relief Society was held at Central. Pres.
East gave some very good instructions to the sisters which were teeming with love and kindness, asked them to be careful and have their minutes and reports correct. Brother George Cluff urged the young people to reflect more; and spoke of the bad influences they had to withstand when they set out to serve God.
Beautifully portrayed the need of mental training, and showed the good advantage of a well cultivated mind, especially when a family are depending mostly upon us for their training.
Hoped the young men and women would be noble fathers and mothers, which was always pleasing to God.—Rhoda E. Foster  ME>- BELLE S. SPAFFORD, general president of Relief Society, had an enriching experience last August in becoming acquainted with Dr. Jeanne Eder-Schwyzer of Zurich, Switzerland, President of the International Council of Women, of which the Relief Society ls an affiliate organization. Mrs. Eder, a doctor of philosophy, spent two days in Salt Lake City. She was traveling from New Zealand and Australia through America. Dr.
Fder was educated in America. She was enthralled with Utah scenery and history. Dr.
Eder addressed the Relief Society general board and special guests on the meeting of the International Council held last April in Athens, Greece, and spoke of the resolutions passed there. She expressed herself as being "deeply impressed with the work of the Relief Society' and "intensely interested in the welfare program." COLLEEN KAY HUTCHINS, Miss Utah for 1951, was crowned Miss America for 1952 in Atlantic City, September eighth, for her beauty, poise, personality, and talent in a reading from Maxwell Anderson's play, "Elizabeth the Queen." Twenty-five years old, five feet, ten inches tall, blonde, with lovely, expressive blue eyes, and weighing 143 pounds, Miss Ramona W. Cannon
Hutchins is winner of a $5,000 cash award, an additional $4,000 if she is unmarried at the end of her year's reign, a new car, other gifts, and an opportunity to make large sums of money from personal appearances. Colleen is a Latter-day Saint girl, who announced to the press her interest in teaching Sunday
School classes and the fact that she does not smoke or drink liquor or coffee. She is a gifted, well-trained dramatic artist and has* done most of her work for a master's degree in speech. pLORENCE CHADWICK, a San Francisco secretary, and an American swimming star, on September eleventh became the first woman ever to swim the English
Channel from the English to the French coast, a much more difficult feat than swimming in the opposite direction. Experts say this is probably the greatest channel-swimming feat since Captain Matthew
Webb first accomplished the same exploit sixty-seven years ago. jyjRS. RUTH HARTKOPF, secretary-manager of the Eastern
Idaho State Fair since 1948, is the only woman state fair manager in the United States, and an outstandingly successful one as both a planner and an executive.
Page 743

EDITORIAL
VOL 38 NOVEMBER 1951 NO. 11 cJhe 'Jjegianing of utarvest
HPHE rich beauty and fruitfulness shall be led to a land of promise; of harvest are with us again, yea, even a land which I have pre-
The fields and orchards and gar- pared for you; yea, a land which is dens have yielded after the pattern choice above all other lands." of abundance. And yet, it is not It was given, also, to the Prophet given us to accept the bounty Nephi, in his time, to see in vision around us without deep and hum- "the spirit of God, that it wrought ble thankfulness, and we should upon the Gentiles; and they went understand some of the reasons why forth . . . upon the many waters" our own land, and other countries (i Nephi 13:13). which partake of the fruits of the The Pilgrims, standing upon the tree of liberty, are truly blessed bleak shores of New England, lookwith spiritual and material abun- ing westward to the unknown dance. * spaces, were not the first to build
Many who look upon a tree homes in the land of the covenant, grown to majestic height, and bear- Yet they, too, nurtured the tree of ing a rich harvest, may wonder liberty, for according to the promwhen, and under what circum- ise, to those who worshiped the stances, the tree was planted— and Lord of the land, freedom would how it grew from a seed and a sap- be vouchsafed, ling into full maturity. Such may Before the Mayflower touched be our questions regarding the great the shores of the New World, the tree of liberty under whose wide Pilgrims bound themselves together and spreading branches the Re- for justice and co-operation, having
.public has grown among the nations "undertaken for the glory of God of the earth, offering the choicest and the advancement of the Chrisfruit of all— personal liberty— an tian faith, a voyage . . .(we) do . . . opportunity for the individual and solemnly and mutually, in the presfor the group to grow and develop ence of God, and of one another, in the spirit of rejoicing. covenant and combine ourselves to-
Let us say that the beginning of gether ... to enact . . . such just the abundant harvest which we en- and equal laws ... as shall be joy occurred long before the first thought most meet ... for the gen-
Europeans beheld the shores of eral good."
New England. The American And through the bitterness and continent had long before been des- hardship of that first winter upon ignated as a blessed land— a prom- the alien shore, the Pilgrims held ised land— by our Heavenly Father high the inner fire of triumph in when he said unto Nephi: "Ye their freedom, and for this, among
Page 744

EDITORIAL
745 other blessings of our heritage, we remember them upon this Thanksgiving Day. Later, the yielding earth brought their labors into bountiful fruition, and future promise was around their bowed heads as they gratefully acknowledged the Giver of all blessings.
"Now God gave them plentie, and the face of things was changed."
It was in the seeking for the fruits of the tree of liberty, under which they might establish the restored gospel, that other Pilgrims built their homes and their chapels and their temples far from habitations. In 1852, President Brigham
Young, as the Governor of the Territory of Utah, made a Thanksgiving Day Proclamation, expressing gratitude and faith and hope, as well as acknowledging the Heavenly
Father:
Then let the head of each family, with his family, bow down upon his knees before the God of Israel . . . and call upon the Father in the name of Jesus for every blessing that he desires for himself, his kindred . . . the universe of man; praying with full purpose of heart and united faith, that the Union of the United States may be preserved inviolate against all the devices of wicked men, until truth shall reign triumphant, and the glory of Jehovah shall fil l the earth that there be no contention in the land; and that the same peace may extend its influence to the utmost bounds of the everlasting hills, and from thence 'to the habitations of every man... To the ends of the earth. Let the tree of liberty long thrive in the promised land and be a source of steadfast strength to the world. At Thanksgiving time it is well to remember, and to be uplifted in knowing how the tree of liberty was planted and the conditions of the beginning of harvest. —V. P. C. She Day Leans Christie Lund Coles The day leans toward the shadows now, The air is evening-cool though sun-caressed; The pear and apple weigh the sturdy bough That not so long ago was whitely dressed In tulle; the birds, less busy than before, Prepare to leave, cocked eyes upon the sun; And where the frogs sat.
Blinking on the shore Of summer streams, no shimmering waters run. The quiet days are melancholy here Where the katydids crack sharply on the lawn; The misty haze softens the atmosphere As the mind remembers hours too swiftly gone. And yet, there is a certain joy that stirs, Thinking of fires and snow on lofty firs. Wotes.
10 THE FIELD WVatch Shis Date: Lt Ys Gmportant Mo. Jin Doe LD Provo, Utah Nov. Be sure to watch the expiration month printed on the address label of your Magazine. All subscriptions, whether new or renewal, must reach the office of the Magazine one full month in advance of the issue with which the subscription is to begin.
This is important, because there are no back issues available. » = * Be Yust One Step at a Sime Caroline Eyring Miner WE can live a relatively serene and happy life if we learn to live it a moment at a time, if we concern ourselves with the step we are taking today and not with the steps we took yesterday and may take tomorrow.
Most of our worries have to do with the yesterdays or tomorrows, of a few minutes or a few years long. It was an all-wise Father who had us forget our pre-existent past and gave us but little knowledge of our existence after this life. I believe it was his purpose for us to live fully and completely as the moments go by.
Many a task seems impossible of accomplishment if viewed as a whole, but there are none of us but who can work seeming miracles just plodding away the best we can each moment. I recently undertook a long and difficult trip over mountainous roads. Had I stopped to fret over the difficulties of the trip as a whole, I probably would never have undertaken the trip and would have foregone a glorious experience. Instead, I just said to myself, ''Surely I can drive a few feet at a time, and that is all I shall be doing at any particular time, isn't it? Sometimes I have been foolish enough to lie in bed a few moments in the morning contemplating the whole day's work that must be done, baking, ironing, cooking, and a host of other things. I honestly begin to wonder how I'll ever last out the day.
Once out of bed and at my work, however, I do all that I can each moment, and, at the end of the day, the miracle has been wrought. We may admire a good book, a beautifully painted picture, a splendidly performed musical selection, and sigh, "How was it ever accomplished?" 'The answer is, "A step at a time the skill was acquired, and a step at a time the masterpiece was performed." A step at a time is a wholesome and practical philosophy to sustain one in trial and to bolster one up to perform great tasks. "