[Minnie Campion Has Music for a Hobby]

Minnie Campion was born in Denmark, came to Utah as a baby, and shared a happy childhood with a family of seven children on a farm where there was much work to do and much enjoyment of homemade entertainment.
Five of Sister Campion's six children are still living, and she has six grandchildren and _ five great-grandchildren.
Still active in Relief Society, which she has served for more than sixty years, she walks several blocks each Tuesday to attend her meetings. A long life, enriched by service to others, enjoyment of her family, devotion to the arts, and Church activity, has been a blessing to Sister Campion and to all who know this woman who lives life so fully and so beautifully. MINNIE CAMPION Minnie Campion Entertains Her Family With Her Playing. 758 _ 
These two or three ideas should lead the way to many more pretty salads. CueEr's GREEN SALAD Line large or individual salad bowls with crisp lettuce leaves. Break up into lined bowl few leaves of spinach and lettuce. Slice hard-cooked eggs and tomato wedges cut quite thin for the next raver. Pieces of avocado add a delicious flavor. Lay long pieces of cold chicken, turkey, or ham across the top. Serve with French dressing. Owns Ne SALAD COMBINATIONS Fruit Spiced apples and grapefruit, frozen fruit salad. Apricot, peach, or pear halves filled with Philadelphia cheese. Avocado, orange, and grapefruit sections. One-half avocado filled with orange sections. Pear halves with grated American cheese. Prunes or dates stuffed with Philadelphia cream cheese or cottage cheese. Apple, grapefruit, and orange sections around cottage cheese. Apples, celery, chopped nuts, and raisins. Cinnamon bean apples stuffed with celery and nuts. Cantaloupe rings filled with raspberries, dewberries, or cherries and watermelon balls, grapes, and mint. Cantaloupe rings filled with grapefruit sections. Oranges, Spanish onions, and white grapes. Cabbage 'Cabbage alone, or with green pepper or celery, red apples, grapes, pineapple, or beets Cabbage, spinach, and celery Cabbage and pineapple set in lime jello Red cabbage, carrots, onions, radishes, and celery Cabbage, shrimp, green pepper, cucumber, avocado, onions Carrots Carrots, shredded, and pineapple in orange jello Carrots and raisins, with peanut butter dressing Carrots, eggs, beans, peas, beets Carrots, ground, with coconut and chopped orange molded in orange jello Other Vegetables Spinach, cucumbers, celery, radishes, onions Spinach, lettuce, radishes, sliced raw zucchini, onions, watercress, and parsley Green pepper, stuffed with cheese and cut into thin slices Tomatoes and cottage cheese Tomatoes and avocado Green salad with tomato wedges Tomatoes and cucumbers Tomatoes stuffed with cucumbers, green pepper, onions, walnuts, and tomato pulp Tomatoes stuffed with shrimp, celery, onions, and green peppers ADD SPARKLE AND ZEST TO YOUR MENUS 759
French Dressing
Mix together in a deep bowl: Vi tsp. mustard (dry) 1 tsp. sugar
% tsp. paprika 3A tsp. salt
2. Add: Vi c. oil 2 tbsp. lemon juice
2 tbsp. vinegar 2 tbsp. tomato catsup.
3. Beat vigorously just before serving.
4. Use at once, as the emulsion breaks quickly. •
NOTE: A suggestion of garlic improves the dressing.
If a less tart dressing is desired, add Vi c. water and more sugar.
Thousand Island Dressing
Mix together:
1 c. mayonnaise 1 tbsp. pimento
1 tsp. onion juice 1 tbsp. chopped sweet pickle or finely chopped onion 1 tbsp. catsup
1 tbsp. chili sauce 1 tbsp. chopped green pepper
1 egg, hard-cooked
2. Serve on crisp greens, such as lettuce.
Fruit Salad Dressing
Mix: 1 Vi tbsp. cornstarch % c. sugar pinch of salt
2. Make a paste with % c. pineapple juice.
3. Heat and blend with paste !4 c. pineapple juice.
4. Stir constantly in double boiler until thickened.
5. Boil 2 minutes.
6. Remove from heat and add 2 tbsp. lemon juice.
7. Cool.
8. When ready to serve mix with lA c. whipped cream.
NOTE: Orange or other fruit juice may be substituted for part or all of the pineapple juice. One half tbsp. grated orange rind may be added. One egg yolk may be added just before the lemon juice, if desired.
Sour Cream Dressing
Mix together: % c. horseradish
1 c. sour cream 1 clove garlic, crushed fine
1 c. salad dressing Vi tsp. Worcestershire sauce
Idleness and wastefulness are not according to the rules of heaven. Preserve all you can, that you may have abundance to bless your friends and your enemies.
— Brigham Young

The Neglected Art of Photo-Coloring
Clara Laster
ABOUT eight .years ago I taught myself the art of photo-coloring. This knowledge has been not only a source of pleasure for me, but also a source of making money.
Many people today desire to paint with oils. They would like to create something beautiful on canvas, but they neglect to try. They realize that a person should have both talent and training. However, there is an art that even an older child can do without training. It is the lovely old art of photo-coloring, yet it is a sadly neglected one.
Women may teach themselves, in their homes, how to paint photographs. Besides saving money and making money, it provides a worthwhile creative hobby.
Materials Needed
Now, if you have decided that you would like to try this art, I will tell you how to go about it. Good materials are essential. They may be bought at any art-supply department. You will need: one set of sable brushes, one basswood drawing board, and a white enameled artist's pallette. Don't forget a bottle of light drying oil and a bottle of turpentine. You will also need push pins, absorbent cotton, and two wooden skewers. Next come the oils. Get eight tubes: crimson, burnt sienna, raw sienna, yellow, blue, black, vermilion, and white.
Page 760
Preparation
Before mixing your paints, go out and observe nature. Study lights and shadows made by the sun. Note how the colors change on a dull day.
Look at the flowers, foliage, and birds. See how the greatest Artist of all blended his colors.
Get a scrapbook and paste in it colored pictures or scenes from magazines for use later as color harmony guides. Remember, a glossy picture cannot be colored in oils.
It is best to have your print finished on a rough surface paper, sepia in tone.
Always work in daylight, arranging the drawing board so that the light will come over your left shoulder. Brushes must be cleaned each time after being used. Wash them first with soap and water, then wipe them on a piece of cloth which has been dampened with turpentine.
To make flesh, rose, orange, or gold, mix varying amounts of raw sienna and crimson; dark brown or maroon can be made by mixing burnt sienna, red, and black. For gray, use a thin wash of black, silver, a wash of blue. You need this knowledge when start on portraits.
For will you
Procedure
Choose, for your first attempt, a scene of some sort. Remember, if you are not satisfied with your first

THE NEGLECTED ART OF PHOTO COLORING
761 work, all the paint can be removed by using a wad of cotton dampened with turpentine. Be sure and let the picture dry before starting again, however.
Place a table and chair by a window. You will need a low stand on which to place your materials, and don't forget a clean cloth for the hands.
Sit down in chair, place the drawing board on your lap, and let it rest against the table. Now, fasten the photograph to the board with push pins. Choose a color guide from your scrapbook to help you select the right color combinations.
Now, twist some cotton around the tip ends of the wooden skewers to use as blenders. Take your palette and squeeze into separate wells a bit of crimson, burnt sienna, raw sienna, and blue. Replace the caps on the tubes. Pour into the cup of the palette about one-half teaspoon of light drying oil. You are now ready to color.
Dip a large brush into the drying oil. Use just enough to moisten the brush.
Using the same brush, pick up a little of the blue color. Mix in the middle of your palette. Now, with bold strokes, go back and forth across the sky. 'Take a piece of cotton, rolled tight, to blend the paint with circular motion. You will need several pieces of cotton before a clear, even tone of blue is obtained. To the lower part of the sky, add a bit of purple.
This can be made by mixing a bit of crimson with blue.
Blend after each application. If your sky has clouds, take a wooden skewer, and with the cottoncovered tip, remove the paint from the clouds. 'To make a pink, fluffy cloud, mix a bit of crimson and 762 white together.
Apply this to the print and blend.
Always use clean cotton.
Remove from trees, flowers, and grass any paint that may have been brushed on them while painting the sky. (Be careful that you do not touch the turpentine cotton to your sky.) To make green, mix a bit of blue and raw sienna together.
Apply this to trees and grass.
Take a piece of cotton and blend. Now, take a clean skewer and rub over the places where the sunlight appears. Add a bit of raw sienna to depict sunshine.
Always blend with cotton after each application of color.
Leaves are always stippled in the foreground. Use a small brush and make small, short touches.
Paint autumn leaves with raw sienna and burnt sienna. The summer leaves RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER 1951 are different shades of green.
Foreground flowers are painted heavy, while distant flowers are blended.
Portraits are painted in much the same way as scenes are painted. For portraits, however, you will have more highlights and shadows. The hair is colored in masses and all hard lines should be blended. The eyes should have a soft expression, and little paint is needed.
Lips are hard to paint. Try doing it with your smallest brush and blending with the wooden skewer.
When a picture is dry, frame it.
This gives it a professional look. Don't expect perfection to come at once. You will have to try again and again. But it can be accomplished.
Learning to become a color artist is an experience you will enjoy. It is truly a worthwhile art, and it gives great satisfaction. - Autumn inds the Canyon Evelyn Fjeldsted Beneath the canyon's autumn skies, Shadows lift soft velvet folds And vanish as the sun's white rays Above the mountain colors rise. And every day and all night long Golden leaves, bright crimson leaves, Drift slowly, quietly to earth And winds weave magic into song. A bronze, complacent moon will gild The cliffs and slopes with russet sheen; Listless streams and sleepy sounds Long hesitant will then be stilled. An autumn midnight still and deep Falls gently on this land aloof— Glistening frost, a trace of ice, And canyon life is lost in sleep.