[WomansExponent | Vol27 | 1898 | April | Issue: 21 | Title: UTAH STATE SOCIETY D. AND R. | Author: Unknown]

UTAH STATE SOCIETY D. AND R.

Daughters of the Revolution:
	Trusting, ladies, that you will believe
that I fully appreciate the honor you have
conferred upon me in electing me State
Regent of the Utah Society Daughters of
the Revolution—let me assure you of my
devotion to our State, to the country, its
institutions and its welfare present and
future, and promise in so far as I am capable
with your help to maintain the dignity of
this society as a part of our fair common-
wealth, and hope and believe that in good
faith all who have united in this society
will share the responsibility which devolves
upon us all in this new organization, of
making it a success a sa part of the General
Society, and a credit to our own State for
whose honor and fair name we are all so
justly ambitious.
	Although we are proud of our noble
ancestry and the spirit of ’76 and our heri-
tage of revolutionary fame in the past, we
must also look to the future and seek to
foster, nourish and cherish in these

[Column 2]
mountain vales the love of country and of
independence, such as we are convinced
our forefathers and foremothers cultivated
in their day and time in the early colonies,
the record of which has been handed down
to us and to which struggle they brought
such unqualified heroism, after having
sacrificed home and native land for liberty.
	This intermountain region is spontan-
eously bursting with the spirit of freedom;
its physical characteristics bear proof of the
assertion. The mountains sublimely grand
in majesty are symbols of integrity, courage
and solidity. Towers of strength indicat-
ing power and might; naturally the chil-
dren born here, as all of this society were
save only your Regent, must inhale this 
spirit which pervades the land.
	The very air we breathe is redolent of
freedom. For this precious gift let us
offer a tribute of praise from the altar of our
hearts to the God of liberty. We can
scarcely be too ardent in our enthusiasm
concerning this goodly land, these beauti-
ful vales in the desert where a band of
weary Pilgrims found rest and peace after a
long and toilsome journey across the bleak
and desolate plains, having been wanderers 
like the children of Israel for an indefinite
period because of their religious faith, and
like their illustrious forefathers, the found-
ers of the colonies on the Atlantic shore
who left their native homes and country
and crossed the mighty ocean, enduring
untold hardships almost too appalling for
repetition because of persecution for their
religion; and yet some of their descendants
at a later date were forced to come hither,
traversing untrodden desert ways, and fin-
ally made their resting place by America’s
Great Dead Sea. An over-ruling Provi-
dence guided the pilgrims of New England
across the mighty deep, and the pioneers of
Utah to this valley, toward the Pacific
slope and the setting sun.
	We must teach our children such lessons
of patriotism and love of humanity and of
religious liberty, that they will never incline
to deeds of disloyalty, nor consent to the
persecution of any denomination or people
of whatever belief or unbelief, Christian,
Jew, Mohammedan or Infidel.
	Teach the children the songs of their
fathers and their mothers. “Sing aloud,
Old Songs the precious music of the heart."

“Teach them your children round the hearth
When evening fires burn clear;
And in the fields of harvest mirth,
And on the hills of deer. 
So shall each unforgotten word 
When far their loved ones roam,
Call back the hearts which once it stirred
To childhood’s holy home.”  
	* * *
“The songs that thro’ the valleys green
Sent on from age to age;
Like his own river’s voice have been
The peasant’s heritage.”

	It is rather remarkable that just a short
period previous to the recent war with
Spain the women of this nation should
have been impressed to band themselves to-
gether in patriotic societies throughout the
United States, arousing the spirit of patriot-
ism in communities and striving to learn
the unwritten history of the greater activity
of patriotic valor, and searching deep into
the genealogy of the past to establish indi-
vidual claims of direct lineage, whereby
they might link themselves to the fathers
and forefathers who preceded them, and
secure perfect recognition of inherited right


[Column 1]
SACRAMENTO BRANCH.
Editor Woman’s Exponent:
	Some time has elapsed since you have
heard from the Relief Society of Sacramen-
to, yet we have been mindful of you and
the Relief Society throughout Utah, especi-
al mention being made in our prayers fo.
Sister Zina D. H. Young and her counselorsr
	Nothing has occurred of enough interest
to communicate, and our work is slow, yet
we have kept on cheerfully and earnestly,
trusting in the promise that, “where two or
three are met together in my name, there
am I in their midst, and that to bless.”
Experience has taught us that we always
receive more than we ask for. Since the
organization of our society we have been
but few members; true our branch and
society have increased, but the people here
have removed to Utah or Idaho as soon as
circumstances permitted, therefore there
would not until lately be over six sisters
present at a meeting, and owing to the
distance of residence and the circumstances
of the sisters, we thought best to discon-
tinue our Tuesday meeting, and hold but
one a month. That one has been well at-
tended, the sisters bearing strong testimon-
ies to the truth of the work and of the
goodness of God. A few weeks ago we
decided to resume our weekly meetings,
the members having increased and each one
having a zeal for work whereby they might
help roll on the Lord’s work and obtain
great blessings. Three meetings are held
at the home of Sister Fanny Thackham,
the fourth, a testimony meeting, at the
home of one of the aged or sick sisters who
is not privileged to be with us from time to
time, that they may be strengthened and
built up by the testimonies, or comfort we
may be able to give them.
	Last year two quilts made by the sisters
netted the neat sum of eight dollars. Gar-
ments and fancy work are now being
manufactured to be disposed of later on in
a manner not yet decided upon.
	On Saturday 11th inst., the Elders went
among the Saints imparting tidings they
knew would bring joy to every heart,
Apostle and Sister Richards and President
Nye would be with us next day. Can you
dear ones over there who have these privil-
eges so common among you, realize what
it is to us to behold the face of a prophet
or apostle of the Lord? To us who have
been living in the world, groping amid its
darkness, wandering we know not where,
then called from our danger by the clear,
sweet tones of the servants of God as they
teach, us the truths of the Gospel as it has
been restored in the last days, bringing us
from danger into safety, from error into
truth, from death into life, from extreme
darkness into the marvelous light of His
love—indeed the capacity of our hearts
seems much too small to hold such a bless
ing, and our tears of joy flow freely.
	Our esteemed guests were present at
Sunday School. President Nye made a
few remarks to the school. President Rich-
ards followed, speaking more particularly
to the older ones, encouraging them in
Sunday School work. Sister Richards ad-
dressed the children about ten minutes,
telling some of her early experiences and
how they did in the schools in Utah. She
won each little heart and proved herself the
childrens’ friend.
	Apostle Richards was the speaker at both
morning and evening service, great interest
being manifested by the many listeners.

[Column 2]
The discourse was on the early history of
the Church and the Apostle’s personal
knowledge of the Prophet Joseph Smith,
and he stated that in the beginning of the
Church he was the youngest apostle and
had lived to be the oldest. The encourage-
ment to Saints and messages of love from
the scriptures to sinners, could only fall
from lips used to communicate with the
Lord. His face fairly radiated the light he
had received, and I felt it good to sit and
listen, and was reminded of the 2nd Ephes-
sins, 6th verse, “Hath called us together
to sit together in heavenly places in Christ
Jesus.”
	At 3 p. m. the Relief Society met with
the Elders at the request of Sister Richards
at the home of Sister Eliza Smith. We
had a glorious meeting, the Holy Spirit
was present with us. President Nye,
Apostle Richards and Sister Richards gave
us much valuable and needed instruction,
and we shall endeavor to reach the standard
raised for us that day and profit by the
things learned, never forgetting the dear
faces from Zion. At conference President
Bowman said words of praise for our Re-
lief Society, saying we were not behind any
branch in the state.
	President Nye returned from a trip to
Carson and was with us on Friday 17.
There being three vacancies in the Relief
Society a meeting was called and the fol-
lowing officers confirmed: Sister Jane
Rumel, counselor; Sister Sarah Morgan,
assistant secretary; Sister Annie Carson,
teacher. President Nye in his inimitable
style instructed the mothers as to how they
should bring up and watch over the health
of their children and bring them up in the
kingdom of God, and prophecied we would
grow rapidly and be a tower of strength in
California. After prayer Sister Rumel in-
vited Brothers Nye and Bowman to lunch
which they accepted and partook of just in
time for the former to take the train for his
home in San Francisco.
	That the Heavenly Father will bless us
abundantly and make us a power in wisdom,
knowledge and strength for the helping on
of the great work, made glorious through
truth and revelation, is my wish.
