[WomansExponent | Vol27 | 1898 | April | Issue: 21 | Title: THE MAGIC KEY. | Author: R. M. F]

THE MAGIC KEY.

’Twas a novel thing in that distant day,
When females could neither preach, nor pray,
With lifted voice to organize,
A band of women, however wise,
But to found a grand society,
With exalted views of charity,
And with this injunction: “Go feed the poor,
Clothe the naked, bind up the sore,
Visit the feeble, lead the blind,
Also cultivate the female mind,
And provoke the brethren to good works,”— 
Was strange indeed.

And who believed that a magic key 
Was turned that day, for liberty
To have a fuller, broader sway;
That woman, too, might win her way
Upward and onward, till she should stand,
As God originally planned,
When he placed her a beauteous bride,
Happy and free by her husband’s side;
Saying, “be ye one, together reign
Over all the earth, the sea and plain,
All things are yours contained therein,
From the mountain’s crest to the ocean’s brim;
The fruits, the flowers, the birds that fly,
All things that live beneath the sky.”

But alas! there came a mighty fall
From her high estate to a pampered doll,
Or a slave to man, fair woman fell;
Of her durance vile, ah! who shall tell,
Of her cries for freedom, her piteous tears,
Her helpless struggle through all the years. 

But lo! in the western sky a light,
Scattering the murky clouds of night;
And a prophet’s voice is heard to cry— 
Rejoice ye fair ones, your time is nigh,
Break from your shackles, from bondage flee;”
And they answer back, “We will be free,
Long, long, we have waited for thy word,
Thanks be to God, our prayers are heard!”

’Tis fifty seven years today, look back
And mark ye well the toilsome track,
Where are ye now O, womankind?
Your fears as if by a mighty wind,
Or a heaving tide, have been swept away,
Higher and higher ye mount each day, 
The best of earth is yours to gain,
To the topmost heights ye may attain.

But ye of the blessed sisterhood,
That yields such marvelous power for good;


Ye who were called—a chosen band—
Ordained and sealed by a prophet’s hand,
To be a part of that unity,
Which heralds to all men liberty;
In you I see a glorious ray,
Which shall luminate the latter-day.
Already ye teach, exhort and bless,  
And lead in ways of righteousness; 
Yea, speak in tongues and prophecy,
By a mighty gift from Him on high; 
And greater than this shall ye become,
Ye must advance as the years doth run;
No earthly power can bid ye stay,
If ye will but walk in Wisdom’s way;
Your husbands, too, will turn with pride,
To the faithful counselor at his side—
A polished jewel whose virtues rare, 
Will add to his honor anywhere;
Who forgetteth not with womanly ken, 
That she shineth most as a mother of men
Who will laud her fame through eternity,
As she moves in that Grand Equality.		
							R. M. F.
March 17, 1899.


