[WomansExponent | Vol27 | 1898 | April | Issue: 21 | Title: ANNIVERSARY AND NEW HALL. | Author: Unknown]

ANNIVERSARY AND NEW HALL.

	The new hall in the 15th ward has been
completed and was opened for the first
time the 17th of March, 1899. The build-
ing has two stories and a large meeting
hall on the upper floor, with convenient
rooms for entertaining, and cloak rooms,

[Column 2]
etc. This society was one of the first or-
ganized and has always been progressive in
financial affairs, and in Spiritual matters
has been up to the spirit of the times. Its
president, Sarah M. Kimball, who had
charge over forty years, led out in enter-
prise and set an example to others. Presi-
dent Harriet A. Badger who has succeeded
Mrs. Kimball will doubtless follow her ex-
ample and keep things moving onward and
upward.
	The larger hall where the sisters con-
vened was prettily decorated with flowers,
plants and bunting, etc., and a regular
program had been arranged. President H.
A. Badger presided, Bishop R. T. Burton,
Elder S. W. Richards and Mrs. E. B. Wells
were present by invitation. Meeting opened
by singing “Praise to the man,” Prayer
was offered by Bishop Burton, followed by
the favorite hymn, “O, my Father.”
President Badger read the minutes of the
organization of thet society on the 17th of
March 1842, and some important remarks
made by the Prophet Joseph at subsequent
meetings. A Song, “Be not the first to
cast the stone,” was finely rendered by one
of the sweet singers of Israel, Mrs. Maggie
Hull.
	Bishop Burton spoke feelingly of Nauvoo
and Joseph Smith, mentioning some inci-
dents that appealed especially to him.
	Elder S. W. Richards related reminiscen-
ces of those early times and his familiar
acquaintance in his boyhood with the
Prophet Joseph.
	Mrs. Mary L. Morris recited an original
poem on Church history with good effect.
	Mrs. E. B. Wells referred to the origin
and growth of the society as a whole and
incidentally alluded to her recent visit in
Washington.
	A song by Mrs. Maude Pratt Griggs,
“Forget me not,” was charmingly rendered.
Miss Nellie Morris read a paper on the late
President Sarah M. Kimball, giving some
of the distinctive characteristics her in-
dividuality and remarkable incidents in her
life, and at the close read some of her trite
sayings found among her papers:
	“Life’s journey is full of God-given
opportunities to sow and to reap rich har-
vests.”
	“The secret of success is in improving
present opportunities.”
	“Cultivate high and holy aspirations;
Christ said, ‘Be ye perfect even as your
Father in heaven is perfect.’ To be perfect
is just to do the best we know how to do
day by day.”
	“The record of a good life sheds lustre
upon declining years.”
	Miss Prudie Brown recited “The Lady Hil-
degarde,” in a very pleasing voice and
style. Miss Sarah E. F. Price read a
carefully prepared paper “The Progress Wo-
men have Made.” This closed the program;
there was singing and benediction, after
which refreshments were served in the hos-
pitable manner of the Relief Society in all
places and on all similar occasions.
ANNIVERSARY.
	The 7th of March being the anniversary
of the birthday of Mrs. Rachel R. Grant,
president of the Relief Society in the 13th
ward of this city even since its organization,
a party was given in her honor at the
residence of Bishop N. A. Empey, which
was a very happy affair. Many of the old
friends of Sister Grant were present, also
the officers of the society over which she
has presided for so many years, and a num-


ber of the members. Mrs. Empey’s par-
lors were decorated with bright carnations,
and refreshments were served on large and
small tables where guests were seated in
groups, chatting and renewing acquaintan-
ces of by-gone days. President Grant
looked radiantly happy as she sat in the
midst of the feast, and no one would sus-
pect who did not know that her years were
so long upon the earth, for assuredly she
has grown beautiful with age.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
	A PLEASANT GATHERING.
	Mrs. Amelia F. Young celebrated her
father’s eightieth birthday, Elder William
H. Fulsom, at her residence in this city.
Mrs. Young is a charming hostess and in
former days very much accustomed to en-
tertaining large companies, and the affair
proved to be very interesting and enjoyable
to the assembled guests, forty in number.
Among them were Prest. Lorenzo Snow
and wife, Prest. George Q. Cannon and
wife, President Jos, F. Smith and wife,
Apostle Brigham Young and wife, Prest.
Angus M. Cannon and wife, Bishop Geo.
H. Taylor and wife, Bishop Nelson A.
Empey and wife, Hon. T. G. Webber and
wife, Hon. Le Grande Young and wife,
Mrs. Margaret Y. Taylor, Mrs. M. M. Bar-
ratt, Mrs. Chloe R. Eldridge, Mrs. E. Mc-
Donald, Mrs. Mary Gates and others.
	The spacious parlors and dining room
were tastefully decorated for the happy
occasion, Brother Fulsom looked the
picture of health and happiness, and one
could scarcely believe he had seen the
snows of eighty winters, so erect in figure
and in full possession of all his faculties,
with the increase of wisdom that comes
with fulness of years and a well spent life.
	The afternoon was passed in social con-
versation and interchange of ideas, and
when such old friends meet there are many
old-time recollections that are of particular
interest.
	The tables were elegant in white napery
and all the newest style appointments,
decorated with flowers and trailing green
vines, and the guests were waited upon by
four pretty young girls in white who seem-
ingly anticipated the wish of every guest.
	The banquet consisted of the choicest and
most delicate viands, and the hour spent at
table was a delightful one to all. Mrs.
Carlie Young Cannon, a daughter of Brig-
ham Young, presented the guest of honor,
Brother Fulsom, with a handsome bouquet
of rare flowers; and many congratulations
from the distinguished brethren and sisters
present were extended with ardent hopes
for happy returns of the day, and that he
might live as long as life was desirable.
	After dinner when the guests had re-
turned to the lighted parlors, the piano was
opened and Miss Lizzie Fulsom, a
daughter of Brother Fulsom’s, accompanied
his granddaughter, Miss Wallace, while
she sang very sweetly the old song, “The
Memories of the Past,” which was a pleas-
ing feature of the evening.
	Mrs. E. B. Wells read a poem written
for the occasion, which contained a sort of
recital of incidents in the life of the aged
veteran and the wife of his youth, who has
been dead many years. Brother Fulsom
responded to the poem in a few appropriate
remarks, expressing his great pleasure in
meeting so many dear friends and receiving
such fervent congratulations.
	Brother Fulsom was born in Portsmouth,

[Column 2]
N.H., March 25, 1815, and his wife (Mrs.
Young’s mother) Zerviah Clark, in West
Suffolk, Conn., in 1818, both of New Eng-
land birth like so many of the early mem-
bers of the Church. They received the
Gospel and were baptized at the same time,
passing through many trials and hardships
together. They gathered with the Saints
here in 1853, and since that time Elder Ful-
som has occupied many positions of trust
and honor. He was the architect of the
Sanpete Temple at Manti, and has been
prominent in planning and building quite a
number of public structures. He is still
able-bodied and is now constantly em-
ployed in the business of inspecting build-
ings, etc. Brother Fulsom has a large
family of sons and daughters and numerous
grandchildren, and is justly proud of his
posterity.


