[WomansExponent | Vol27 | 1898 | April | Issue: 21 | Title: LABOR AND EXPANSION. | Author: CORNELIA S. ROBINSON]

LABOR AND EXPANSION.

	In our new possessions Hawaii and Porto
Rico we have a problem, the magnitude of
which we have scarcely begun to realize,
listen as attentively as we may; the pulse of
the nation beats irregularly with the proba-
bility of augmenting the labor difficulties
now being experienced in the south.
	But war gave us Porto Rico, we could
scarcely help ourselves, and Hawaii—well
we have Hawaii.
	If we should ever regret their acquisition
or be called upon to apologize for annexing
either island, at least we may make the
plausible excuse that they are within the
hemisphere ! Jealous of the principle in-
volved in the Monroe doctrine, we may
with a degree of honorable consistency
say to all monarchial or aristocratic forms of
government—hands off! No governmental
institutions lower than a democracy shall
exist in this hemisphere !
	Here it may be observed that with the

[Column 2]
possibility of suffrage in both these inferior
territories it would be an insult to the in-
telligence of our women suffragists should
they be suspected of advocating the annex-
ation of a still more inferior country, name-
ly, the Philippines.
	It seems necessary to retrace the events
that led to the first decisive blow in our
controversy with Spain. Suffice it to say
that curiously enough this blow was struck
in another hemisphere, and resulted in a
victory without parallel in the history of
warfare, and the Stars and Stripes floated
over Manila. Thus the exigencies of war
brought us face to face with a question of
which we had never before even dreamed,
and the excitement of victory may be urged
as a partial excuse for having made two
mistakes, first in demanding the island and
second in paying $20,000,000, practically
bearing all the expense of the war, in that
direction, which by debauchery, oppression
and treachery Spain had brought upon her-
self, a transaction without parallel, consider-
ing the character and location of the terri-
tory.
	Now that the enthusiasm of victory has
subsided, we shall have no excuse if we
make a third mistake. Mamia will be re-
tained as a coaling station, an advantage
which could have been secured without the
burden of possession, but what advantage
can be derived from the rest of the islands.
In the first place they are so remote from
the United States that affiliation would be
impossible under the most favorable con-
ditions for the next five hundred years!
Secondly, the resources consist of products
almost wholly extractive or agricultural,
and even though the islands are rich in
such products, what do they offer us that is
not at our very doors, even in our great
northwest? What climate necessary to a
peculiar product that we cannot find some-
where within the boundary of the United
States? Aye, and where great tracts of
fertile land may be had for the asking, with
no increase of burden to our government,
nor additional taxation to our citizens.
	It is said the resources of the islands are
great and trade will be increased, as with
annexation the duties will be abolished;
and what advantage would this be to the
nation with labor in the Philippines at ten
cents per day?
	On the one hand we are seriously con-
sidering the advisability of more adequately
restricting immigration, and on the other
hand we are struggling to annex ten mil-
lions of people at one stroke, whose average
wage level is ten cents per day; a number
it would take years to annex by immigra-
tion. In this situation what becomes of
the principle involved in our protective
policy ?
	We pride ourselves, and justly, upon the
fact that the protective policy in fostering
industry prohibits the competition of cheap
labor, and thus maintains the American
standard of wages. Shall we abandon the
beneficent policy at one stroke? Again, we
all agree that previous immigration has
made this country what it is. Surely these
immigrants have a right to consideration.


[Column 1]  
   It may be asked how this labor will
come in direct competition. The fact that
capitalists are always seeking the lowest
cost of production (and rightly) will be
sufficient reason for the removal to the
Philippines of numerous factories, should
they be annexed, and taking advantage of
the low priced labor send their products,
here in competition free of all duty. In
the nature of our chosen policy, have we
the right to permit this course? This same
policy conserved the market to the producer;
he has spent his time and energies in the
production of capital, and the acquisition
of wealth; he has been lifted to the plane of
opulence and labor as a market has con-
tributed the means. Now a new era dawns,
and the policy that has directly benefited
the capitalist and indirectly the laborer 
should be made to react and directly benefit
the laborer.
   This can only be accomplished by con-
serving the reactionary forces within the
group or nation, and the benefits can only
be retarded by the introduction of deterior-
ating forces, such as the Philippines, which
cannot be doubted when we recognize the
social, economic and moral status of the
islands. The social plane must be the low-
est when their only wants consist of shel-
ter, food and clothing to partially cover
their nakedness, and perhaps ornamental
decorations for their naked bodies. Since
their social wants are so meagre and simple,
their industries cannot be complex, and
therefore we find them almost wholly in the
stage of hand labor.
   Their moral status is unmistakable when
we recall the prevailing custom of cannibal-
ism in many of the islands. No matter how
temptingly the feast may be prepared, al-
though in the preparation the body is stuf-
fed with sweet potatoes, breadfruit and
bananas laid on taro leaves, we can scarcely
divest ourselves of the horror of the thought
of human sacrifice for such a purpose.
   Believe in absorption as we may, assured-
ly we prefer that accomplished by social
affiliation to that of physical assimilation!
But joking aside, what horrors may be de-
picted in the subjugation of this race of
barbarians and cannibals, in comparison to
which the Indian massacres in the North-
west were child’s play. Added to this
would be the inevitable increased taxation
necessary to the maintenance of an army
and navy adequate to cope with the diffi-
culties of the situation. And all to what
end?
   A people in the stage of hand labor can-
not furnish a market for a machine using
country, and the only advantage would
accrue to the capitalist individually, to the
great disadvantage of the wage earner of
America. True the introduction of factor-
ies might benefit the Filipinos.
   Texas’ annual cotton crop is between
three and four million bales, yet the great
state boasts of only four insignificant cotton
mills, and our South awaits the further
coming of the factories, the only solution to
the distressing problem that lies in our
midst, and in addition we now have Hawaii
and Porto Rico and the responsibility of
Cuba.
   How dare we pass them over and direct
our interest and capital to so remote a peo-
ple as the Filipinos?
   What duty, in the name of humanity, do
we owe to the Filipinos, that we may with
impunity deny to our own south, our north-
west, our new territories and the immigrants
in our cities and towns? With the out-

[Column 2]
come of neglect in these directions we are
already familiar. By what process of reason-
ing may we benefit other people to the in-
jury of our own? To make it quite clear,
it should be repeated, that to give the
capitalist opportunity to take advantage of
remote low priced labor, to bring it without
impediment in competition with our native
labor, is a crime unpardonable in the present
stage of American civilization and repudi-
ation of protective principle.
   It is the folly of sentimentality that claims
the Filipinoes can be affiliated; there can be
no affiliation with Poles, Bohemians and
Italians who come to our great centres;
here they colonize for that very reason, and
by perpetuating old world customs, be-
come a menace to our social and moral life
and a check to our industrial development,
and with their old world ideas and govern-
ment become dangerous to the permanence
of existing institutions. Witness the growth
of socialism which has made possible the
election of three socialist mayors, one of
them the mayor of Boston.
   If the Poles, Bohemians and Italians,
with whom we brush elbows, cannot be
affiliated, how much less will it be possible
to affiliate ten millions of an alien race iso-
lated in another hemisphere? And if this
is not true, why should our altruism halt
at the Philippines? Why not reach into
Asia and Turkey? Will not the flag carry
civilization to them also? Upon the
principle that would lead us to annex the
Philippines, what right have we to deny
the advantage to those benighted countries ?
Upon what principles, indeed, do our ex-
pansionists draw the line at the Philippines?
Let us not make the fatal mistake of pros-
tituting the purity of our flag by claiming
for it that which it does not do.
   It cannot carry trade to the Philippines;
it would appear that the Filipinos must
learn to wear shirts before there can be a
demand for our factory made goods. No,
our flag does not carry trade, but follows it;
and what trade shall we acquire there that
we have not already possessed at vastly less
cost than the maintenance of the islands as
a territory ? Can the flag give them great-
er liberty than they now enjoy? Why,
they can even eat each other, and by way
of variety, an occasional trader or mission-
ary, without impairing their digestion. Re-
ligious liberty they certainly possess, when
the range is from Catholicism to the most 
revolting forms of fetish worship that these
extremes exist, that the gradations in re-
ligious sentiment do not exist, is abundant
proof that they cannot even affiliate with
themselves. It will take the evolution of
hundreds of years to bring ten millions of
ten cent a day laborers to the point of de-
siring freedom. Need we pause to analyze
their moral status? We can scarcely ex-
pect a moral status within a people who
have not yet learned to wear clothes. Per-
haps this is an error and these islands are a
new Garden of Eden, where the traditional
apple has not yet been plucked; a paradise
from which state in our perhaps mistaken
idea of progress we are ever moving further
away. But seriously, shall we hoist the
flag in a land that can bring us nothing in
products that we do not already or may
produce? Shall we hoist the flag over an
alien people that capitalists may use them
to undersell our home labor ? We will
hoist our flag as an incentive to hope and as
a promise that they shall be sustained on
every plane to which they may arise by
their own efforts.

[Column 3]
   The capitalists have had their era; we
needed them and we need them now; capital
is necessary to the development of extensive
enterprise. It is now in good working or-
der, and it should not be allowed to move
into a foreign land.
   It should be used to fulfill the promise of
our protective policy, and be forced to react
upon our laborers.
   We want more industries; we want great-
er and better facilities for education; we
want our country put in a perfectly sanitary
condition; we want to stamp out the sweat
shops; we want to add dignity to labor; we
want the race problem solved.
   The business of this era is not the acquisi-
tion of new territory, it is to lift the masses
out of the degradation of poverty, and when
this is accomplished, with the superabund-
ance we have on hand, it well be time
enough to lay hold of another hemisphere.
		CORNELIA S. ROBINSON.
   Read before the Woman’s Council at
Washington.


WOMANS EXPONENT


