LESSON IV Social Service (Fourth Week in November)
LESSON 17. CHANGES IN THE COURSES OF STUDY AND THE METHODS OF TEACHING IN THE SCHOOLS
(Based on Chapters 18 and 19 of The Child: His Nature and His Needs)
In the last lesson we discussed the changing objectives of American schools. In this lesson?which, it will be noted, covers two chapters in the book?we consider the changes that are taking place in the courses of study and the methods of teaching in the public schools of today. In the next lesson, which will be the last in The Child: His Nature and His Needs, we shall attempt to sum up and bring together the main points of the entire eighteen lessons.
GUIDE LESSONS FOR NOVEMBER
As announced last month, the six lessons for January to June inclusive will survey The Field of Social Work. There will be no book required for this set of lessons; the outlines, however, will contain references to appropriate readings.
A. The Changing Course of Study
In comparison with European schools it is correct to conclude with the author of this chapter, that American schools are, in general, much more modern and less bound by tradition. Yet from the standpoint of the profound changes which are taking place in American social and economic life today, our schools are backward; they are changing their courses of study and their methods of teaching with painful slowness. In fact, this situation is the basis of a major criticism of American schools today. The truth, therefore, lies somewhere between these two extreme comments.
In some enlightened places, the schools are progressively adapting their efforts to the preparation of the child for the life he is probably going to live. These experiments have great significance and are being observed with a critical eye by school people generally. Many innovations, however, have been introduced under the guise of careful experimentation, and presumably after careful thought, but which turn out to be nothing more than spurious ways of "jazzing up" the curriculum. Who will not recognize the tendency?possibly in one's own community, so aptly described by a writer in the August, 1929, Century* as follows:
"Walk past a typical high-school building * * * Choose any hour of the day. * * * The broad demesne of this establishment is filled with the fleeting forms of children. The welkin rings with their shouts. The school band is discording a cheap march. Boys in decorated B. V. D.'s are batting balls * * Others in khaki and brass buttons are shouldering guns, beating drums and blowing bugles. On the other side of the grounds the girls are doing much the same thing * * * boys are applying wrenches to auto frames. Others are hammering the tops of cooky-boxes * * * yet more are feeding a hungry printing-press with good white paper that will soon whirl out covered with juvenile wise-cracks. Across from the tin-shop a group is preparing the musical program for the next 'pep' meeting that is to inspire the gladiators of Webster in their struggle with Longfellow. In the library, the executive committee of the Webster Parent-Teachers' Association is meeting to determine whether to put on a carnival or a minstrel-show to raise money for a new stage curtain. The library is closed to the few earnest students who have mistakenly believed that it is a place for books and study * * *,"
 
Genuine change, born of need and a careful analysis of the situation, is a much coveted thing in education. But the introduction of change merely for the sake of change is distinctly hazardous. The author has wisely emphasized the utilitarian principle now gaining currency in American education, that the school must prepare the child for actual life. However, let us see to just what extent this is true of education as we know it.
Take, in the first place, the matter of vocational education. Do our schools really prepare children for some vocation or other? True, we have some agriculture, some business courses and a little home-making in the high-school curriculum, but who would contend that this is a satisfactory, well-integrated scheme of vocational education? Furthermore, how much vocational guidance is offered the average secondary-school pupil? These same questions might be raised in regard to character education.
Take also the question of education for parenthood, more specially for motherhood. The traditional courses in hygiene, home-making, etc., are offered, to be sure, but does the high-school girl-graduate learn anything about home-nursing, children's diseases, mental hygiene of childhood, sex education, etc.?
Finally, we might mention the increasing importance of preparing children for the intelligent use of their leisure time. What, for instance, does the average public school do by way of systematically cultivating avocational habits and interests in its pupils? It does something, of course, but rarely does it do anything explicitly in this direction.
Of course, the vision of the "what to do" in education is obviously clearer than our understanding of the "how to do it." Most school people and boards of education would readily assent to these needs, but very few have the vision, the courage, the preparation or the financial backing to enable them to do what seems indicated.
Other Questions
1. What specific courses are offered to your children in the public schools that were not available in your day (or vice versa)? Is this difference an improvement? Why or why not?
2. How valid is the criticism that "we (in the U. S.) do not train our pupils to be students or scholars; we merely entertain them with a great variety of knowledge?"
3. Who determines the courses of study for the school children in your community? Are the wishes and opinions of parents ever consulted on such matters? Should they be? Explain.
*"What Makes Teachers Cranky?" by One of Them, August, 1929, Century, page 469.
GUIDE LESSONS FOR NOVEMBER 517
4. What constructive criticisms can you offer regarding the courses of study in the public schools of your community?
B. The New Methods of Teaching
Perhaps the most striking difference between the schools of today and those of a generation ago is the freedom and informality of present-day education. The over-strict discipline of a former day has gone. Nowadays, the child is encouraged to express rather than to repress his individuality in the class-room. The old problem of discipline, for instance, is easily dealt with in the modern school, not by threats of punishment, however, but by interesting the pupil. New skills are also achieved by new methods. For example, equal emphasis is placed on the silent as well as the oral reading ability of the child. Alongside memory training, the ability to think, to evaluate and to solve problems is emphasized. Moreover, children in the modern school not only read about a subject?such as history, for example?but they learn with the aid of projects involving music, dramatics, literature, etc. The schools of today are also well-equipped with laboratories, museums, maps, etc., all of which increase the efficiency of the learning process in general.
To some extent?although not as much as they should?children participate in their own management. Here the rudiments of citizenship can be taught and the art of living together learned in a dynamic way. The spirit and characteristic of the modern school is activity. The old "sit-still" education is happily passing. The good teacher knows that activity is synonymous with life and growth; that inactivity is mental and physical death, so to speak. The formal subjects such as grammar and arithmetic are nowadays made dynamic by the new methods in education which make free use of the play and competitive element. Occasionally there will also be found the school which makes discriminating use of those revolutionizing devices, the movie and the radio, in order to vitalize the subjects taught. During the last school year, for instance, many eastern school systems equipped their buildings with receiving sets so that the children might learn?direct from that great artist, Walter Damrosch, conductor of the New York Symphony Orchestra?the elements of music and music appreciation.
To know how to use these newer devices, and to be able to choose wisely from among the many psychological and mechanical aids to teaching which are clamoring for adoption, demands more intelligence, education and training on the part of the teacher than ever before. For this and other valid reasons, only competent well-paid teachers should be in charge of the schools of today.
 
Other Questions
1. What are the usual criticisms of American educational methods?
2. What is the Montessori method?
3. Do the schools in your community make any use of the moving-picture or the radio in conjunction with the teaching process?
4. To what extent do the pupils in your schools participate in self-government?
5. What constructive criticisms can you offer of the educational methods employed in the schools of your community?