[Vol34 | February 1947 | Sequence: 17 | Category: Article | Title: Optional Lessons in Lieu Lyon]

Riis, Jacob A., Making of an American Sorensen, Donna, "America, A Choice Land," The Relief Society Magazine, May 1940, Page 343; Zangwill, Israel, The Melting Pot. > Optional Lessons in Lieu of Literature Course—The Gospel as a Way of Life Lesson 8—Education and Recreation Elder T, Edgar Lyon For Tuesday, May 20, 1947 ROM the earliest days of the restoration of the gospel, the Church has manifested a strong interest in the education of its members. 'There are perhaps two fundamental concepts that have contributed to this condition. The first is the conception that the ultimate salvation and exaltation of an individual will depend, to a great extent, upon his knowledge and. Intelligence. Believing, as we do, that the ultimate goal of eternal life is the attainment of a degree of Godhood, it is logical to draw the conclusion that such a position can be achieved only when the individual is sufficiently advanced in understanding to assume such a position with its powers and possibilities. The statement so often repeated, "The glory of God is intelligence, or, in other words, light and truth" (Doc. And Cov. 93:36), stimulated the Latter-day Saints to become interested in education.
Some years later the Lord revealed: Whatever principle of intelligence we attain unto in this life, it will rise with us in the resurrection. And if a person gains more knowledge and intelligence in this life through his diligence and obedience than another, he will have so much the advantage in the world to come (Doc. And Cov. 130:18-19). The thought expressed in this quotation became a powerful incentive to study, learn and observe, in order to enter the next life with as much intellectual understanding as possible, thereby having an advantage over dilatory ones who failed to acquire knowledge during mortality: Another idea that influenced the Church to interest itself in education arose from the nature of the organization of the Church.
Unlike most other churches, we have neither professional nor trained clergymen. It is what is referred to as a "Jay-leadership church," meaning that the laity, or members of the Church, assume the responsibility for its leadership. In order to provide effective leadership, with ability to speak properly, write correctly and effectively, interpret the relationship of religion to life, and understand the nature of social trends, the Church needed to provide for the intellectual and cultural growth of all of its members. Furthermore, the nature of our "lay-missionary" system, in which each Church member is a potential missionary, demanded that the standard of education within the Church be high. An organized school effort within the Church was undertaken at Kirtland, Ohio, and is known as the "School of the Prophets." It was to be primarily a leadership training school for the adult members of the Church, to prepare them for their responsibilities as Church leaders and missionaries. The following instructions, taken from revelations dated December 27, 1832, and March 8, 1833, were directed to these early Church leaders: Teach ye diligently and my grace shall attend you, that you may be instructed more perfectly in theory, in principle, in doctrine, in the law of the gospel, in all things that pertain unto the kingdom of God, that are expedient for you to understand; Of things both in heaven and in the earth; things which have been, things which are, things which must shortly come to pass; things which are at home, things which are abroad; the wars and the perplexities of the nations, and the judgments which are on the land; and a knowledge also of countries and of kingdoms...
Seek ye diligently and teach one another words of wisdom; yea, seek ye out of the best books words of wisdom; seek learning, even by study and also by faith... And set in order the churches, and stud and learn, and become acquainted with a good books, and with languages, tongues, and people (Doc. And Cov. 88:78-79; 118; go:15). An analysis of the foregoing quotations will indicate that the saints were to study things that we today know as astronomy, geology, ancient, modern, and current history, domestic and foreign affairs, international relations, geography, politics, ethnology, archaeology and foreign languages. The brethren took these instructions seriously and, while engaged in earning their daily bread, found time to improve their minds, and even undertook the study of the Hebrew language in order to better understand the message of the Old Testament, and planned to learn Greek for use in the study of the New Testament. At Nauvoo, they incorporated into their charter the tight to establish a municipal university—the first in the United States. The pioneer groups brought with them to the West books and maps, which were used in the elementary schools of that day. As Latter-day Saint groups were organized and sent out to colonize the various valleys of the West, it was always arranged that a teacher or two would be included in the personnel that was to settle the new community.
Throughout the districts where Latter-day Saints predominate, the Church Board of Education, during the last quarter of the nineteenth century, established academies, that were, in reality, the forerunners of the modern high schools. As the various state departments of education entered the field of secondary or high school education, the Church withdrew from it, and pioneered the junior college field. Gradually, as the states took over the junior college level of education, the Church withdrew from this field. Today, only the Ricks College at Rexburg and the Juarez Academy in Mexico remain of this once extensive system. 'The Church pioneered in fields where the states were not functioning, in order to 

 —FEBRUARY 1947 LESSON DEPARTMENT provide its members with advantages for education and training for Church leadership. When _ the Church withdrew from the high school and junior college fields of education, it pioneered a new type of religious education, namely, the seminary and institute of religion designed to supplement public education with religious education. It also embarked upon a program for the growth and improvement of the Brigham Young University as a great Church university of higher learning. Today, in addition to the Brigham Young University, which has an enrollment of about 4,500 students, the Church operates twelve institutes of religion in connection with state universities and junior colleges, ninety-nine seminaries in connection with high schools, the Latter-day Saints Business College in Salt Lake City, Ricks Junior College at Rexburg, Idaho, and Juarez Academy at Juarez, Mexico.
During the academic year 1944-1945, the last year for which complete statistics are available, these institutions, with 376 teachers, served 27,043 students. The Church leaders are so converted to the need of this educational work for the spiritual advancement of its membership that they appropriated more than one million dollars of Church funds for the maintenance of the department of education during the year 1945. Surely, no Church in proportion to its size has invested as heavily for the education of its members as has the restored Church. In addition to this formal education, the Church provides educational opportunities through the Priesthood and auxiliary organizations 137 of the Church.
Lessons in Priesthood meeting, Relief Society, Sunday School, Primary, and Mutual Improvement Association classes give hundreds of thousands of members a chance for continued intellectual growth, even after school has been completed.
Another phase of activity, in which the Church has been interested since its early days, is the recreational life of its membership. Latter-day Saints have never accepted the view, so commonly held by so many Christian denominations, that mortal life began in sin, and the body is therefore evil, while only the spirit is good. The restored Church teaches that life is good, and that both body and spirit should live joyfully and happily. "Men are that they might have joy," has come to be a maxim of the Latter-day Saint interpretation of earth life. But this joy is more than mere pleasure—it is interpreted to mean something akin to true happiness, resulting from good conduct, high idealism, and good ethical living, having lasting value, followed by no regrets. Early Church leaders were practical men of vision, who knew that relaxation was needed for a well-rounded personal development. At Nauvoo, the leaders of the Church encouraged the saints to participate in wholesome recreation, and _ set the example by taking part in stage plays.
Dramatic productions were given during the trying years of the western exodus, and continued to be given in Utah. In time, the great Mutual Improvement Association and Primary organizations developed elaborate programs for the constructive use of leisure time.
They provided recreation of all types, but arranged for it under ideal, wholesome conditions, wherein people, young and old, could have a good time in a proper way. The prayer offered at the dedication of the Salt Lake Theater, in 1862, contains a fine statement of the Church's attitude toward recreation: Suffer no evil or wicked influences to predominate or prevail within these walls; neither disorder, drunkenness, debauchery, or licentiousness of any sort or kind; but rather than this, let it utterly perish and crumble to atoms; let it be as though it had not been, an utter waste, each and every part returned to its natural element; but may order, virtue, cleanliness, sobriety, and excellence obtain and hold fast possession herein, the righteous possess it, and "Holiness to the Lord" be forever inscribed therein.... As the unstrung bow no longer retains its elasticity, strength and powers, so may Thy people who congregate here for recreation, unbend for a while from the sterner and more wearying duties of life (Pyper, Romance of an Old Playhouse, page 92). Today, the Church follows this philosophy of recreation. It offers through its auxiliary associations, recreational activities designed to care for the varied interests of all groups —music, handwork, athletics, debating, oral expression, drama, outdoor camps and vacation centers, scouting, art, social dancing, and creative interpretation.
These are wholesome opportunities to "unbend for a while from the sterner and more wearying duties of life." Furthermore, many of these activities afford opportunity for intellectual and cultural growth.
Mormon recreation has never been viewed as an end in itself, but as a means of relaxation, creative activity, and cultural or intellectual growth.
What are the fruits of the educational and recreational programs of the Church? We have attained a high degree of leadership, with our people holding many positions of trust and responsibility in all parts of the world, in all types of human endeavor. We have a higher percentage of our young people completing high school than any other religious group in America, and the number of Latter-day Saints who attend college is more than twice the national average.
Thousands of members trained in the schools and auxiliaries are today occupying positions of executive and spiritual leadership in the wards and stakes of the Church, and the organizations continue to grow. Our recreational program has been widely acclaimed throughout the nation, and has proved to be a strong deterrent of juvenile delinquency.
These are fruits of which we can well be proud.
Questions and Activity Problems 1.
What do you think caused the Church in the days of its infancy to embark upon a vast educational program to train its members? 2.
Have a class member present the educational expenditures for 1945 from the financial statement presented at April Conference, 1946. 3.
What does recreation achieve in the life of the individual? 4.
What are the fruits of Mormonism from the standpoint of its educational and recreational programs today? References Pyper, George D.: Romance of an Old Playhouse.
Recreation in the Home, pp. 5-9.
Published by auxiliary organizations of the Church, 1925, for sale at Deseret Book Co., 25 cents. Widtsoe, John A.: Program of the Church, pp. 45-55-. 
 —FEBRUARY 1947