[Vol34 | February 1947 | Sequence: 14 | Category: Notes from Field | Title: Notes From the Field Pickering]
that  of  men  in  all  fields  of  human 
enterprise— in  political,  social,  and 
economic  freedom;  and  in  full  per- 
sonality development.  Among  oth- 
ers, women  from  China,  Poland,  In- 
dia, South  America,  and  Lebanon 
participated. 
JVJEETINGS  of  great  import  to 
women  occurred  in  New  York 
in  late  October,  1946.  Mrs.  Sterling 
Ercanbrack,  Provo,  President  of  the 
Utah  Federation  of  Women's  Clubs, 
and  dean  of  all  state  presidents  and 
a  member  of  the  executive  commit- 
tee in  the  general  federation,  was,  on 
account  of  these  positions,  admitted 
into  many  exclusive  sessions.  She 
took  part  in  a  conference  of  the 
board  of  directors  of  the  National 
Federation,  whose  watchword  this 
year  is  "Conservation  of  Youth." 
She  attended  the  brilliant  Interna- 
tional Assembly  of  Women,  the  dele- 
gates to  which  are  chosen  by  their 
governments  for  outstanding  ability 
and  service  to  their  countries.  Fifty- 
three  countries  were  represented  by 
137  delegates.  The  German  and 
Japanese  delegates  addressed  the 
group.  All  participants  on  the  pro- 
gram spoke  in  English.  The  theme 
of  the  meetings  was  "The  World 
We  Live  In  and  the  World  We 
Hope  For."  Mrs.  Ercanbrack  also 
attended  sessions  of  the  United  Na- 
tions Conference  and  the  challeng- 
ing New  York  Herald-Tribune 
World  Forum. 
Page  107

EDITORIAL 
VOL  34  FEBRUARY  1947  NO.  2 
(^faithful  to  the  [Pioneer  cKerttage 
/^FTTIMES  during  the  Centen-  call  to  forsake  worldly  possessions 
nial  year  of  1947,  Latter-day  wrested  from  the  sagebrush  wastes. 
Saints  will  recall  the  experiences  of  Nevertheless,  difficult  trials,  tempta- 
the  pioneers,  and  wonder  if  they—  tions,  and  testing  experiences  await 
descendants  by  lineage  or  tradition  each  generation.  The  Lord  has  said 
—are  measuring  up  to  the  achieve-  that  this  life  is  a  state  of  probation 
ments  and  self-sacrifice  of  their  pio-  and  that  men  are  free  to  choose  lib- 
neer  ancestry.  erty  and  eternal  life,  or  to  choose 
To  the  pioneers  came  the  decision  captivity  and  death.  So,  today,  also, 
to  forsake  worldly  possessions,  ac-  he  would  have  a  tried  people.  To
