[Vol34 | February 1947 | Sequence: 06 | Category: Article | Title: February Table]

RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1947 slender stems, paling to lavender, changing to alabaster in the sun. A spectacle that blurred before their unbelieving eyes. A thousand Pisas, ready to fall, fading, reforming from the mist, clear, then indistinct, glowing to steadiness, and becoming real, the great bowl challenged their credulity. In rapt wonder, they stood upon its brink.
Detail led to detail: a goblet of Venus, a flag on a steeple, a chariot, a flotilla of ships, a temple, a cowled monk, a gray-cloaked nun—Bryce Canyon in all its glory! "And the morning and the evening were the first day, Kumen Jones quoted reverently, and, like the rest, stood with uncovered head. The camp was unusually silent that night.
They were too close to nm? * a the majesty of the Creator for lighthearted banter and songs.
They sang a quiet hymn, offered up their silent prayers, and went to bed. In the morning, they turned south to Johnson settlement and on, to cross the Buckskin Mountains at Ylouse Rock Springs. George Hobbs, the alert, easy-riding, loud-singing official scout of the company, and a brother of Elizabeth Harriman, led the way.
Disdaining the popular beard of the day, he looked younger than the rest of the men in the company, younger than his own twenty-five years. "I'll take on the responsibility of a beard when I do a wife," he had told the girls in his home town of Cedar City. "The minute. You see stubble on my chin you'll know I'm in love."
Photograph by Glen Perrins BRYCE CANYON, UTAH WHERE TRAILS RUN OUT RIDING hard ahead now, he sang his loudest, for he had smelled water. He pulled up his horse, turned him on two legs and dashed up a ravine. He sized up the terrain to see if wagons could make the climb, then, satisfied that they could, he followed the trickle until it became a clear stream that finally headed in a small spring.
This would do. A bit of digging and they could slake their thirst, rest a few hours, and then move on to a regular stop after it got cool. The temperature had risen steadily since they had left Kanab Creek, and teams and stock were feeling the change.
This hunting up of new country stimulated him immensely Though they had been settled in Southern Utah only a few years, he was already beginning to feel restless.
Others might chafe at the call of the Church to this strange, wild mission, but he liked the thought of the dangers and responsibilities ahead. It was time the Indians were stopped in their tracks.
Their depredations were ruinous. To beard them in their own strongholds was the thing.
Through peaceful ways, of course, but beard them just the same. Beard.
What a lot of possibilities that word conjured up. As he rubbed his lean fingers over his smooth cheeks, he smiled at the remembrance of what he'd told the girls back home. His hard muscles relaxed, and he sat dreaming.
That new Welsh girl....
Again his hand sought his beardless chin. If only she could speak English—or he could speak Welsh!
Pivoting his horse again, he swung back down the trail to the road, 99 where he waited for the wagons to come up.
After a few hours of rest at the spring, the company pushed on into the desert, toward Moan Copei, Arizona, a Moqui Indian village that harbored a few white people.
Mile after mile they plowed ahead, making good progress, for it was cooler, and the rest and the water had refreshed the stock and teams. But Hobbs, riding ahead of the line, was unusually silent.
There was a harsh dryness in the air that was not compatible with the night or the season. He knew there were but few natural stops—places where there was forage and water—and these were far apart.
They would have to push the stock to the limit of endurance while there was enough coolness to allay thirst. A drowsy silence took the place of laughter and song. The two women had put their children to bed in their wagons.
This was their first experience at night driving and they were enjoying it. The noises of the day were distracting, but, here, in the desert night, even the dust seemed less active. The wagons caught mesquite and chaparral. Dry leaves, loosened by new fronds and buds, swished to the warm sand.
Desert moths, drawn by the white covers of the wagons, beat against the waxed canvas. And, above their muted thuds, came the sawing of the crickets, suspended at the approach of the wagon train, and resumed at its passing. The sweet smell of night lilies drugged the air.
Tall cactus shadows grouped and regrouped in lonely converse. Elizabeth Harriman looked searchingly in all directions.
Back of the beauty of the night and her enjoyment of it, was the perpetually Courtesy, Keystone Photo Service JOSHUA TREE ON THE DESERT, NORTHERN ARIZONA WHERE TRAILS RUN OUT cautious fear that the frontier had engendered.
What a vast unknown lay ahead! She and Mary Davis were taking their little children and going farther and farther into its bewildering dimensions. It seemed to her that the night's very beauty was a menace, a drug to lure one's senses into forgetfulness of danger.
Quiet and vast and dry, the desert seemed to tolerate their intrusion, but never to welcome it.
There was no hurry, it seemed to say. It could wait, its thorns concealed, as claws are couched in a furred paw. It would wait. 'Two women and a handful of men were not important in its existence. Two women and their little children... Twenty-six men and their presumptuous courage.
These were as nothing in its unwalled domain. It could rise now and strike, or lie quiescent until the company, lost in its sand and heat, perished. 101
Suddenly, Elizabeth sat bolt upright, fear overmastering all other feeling. She had heard no unusual sound of man or beast or desert, yet she knew that strange eyes were measuring her, weighing her courage. She was not asleep, and this was no bad dream. She did not need to turn her head to know that a strange horse and rider were close to her front wheel, waiting for her to move or speak or scream—whatever women do when they can look straight ahead and can breathe quietly no longer. The beat of moths against her wagon cover was as measured and aimless as_ before; harnesses creaked with the same homely assurance; nothing had changed except the beat of her heart, measuring the beat of the alien hoofs beside her. And the desert waited.