[Vol34 | February 1947 | Sequence: 16 | Category: Article | Title: Literature America Land Driggs]
All these creations may afford some harmless pleasure when well read; but they are not literature that portrays the inner souls of the varied folk who have made America their homeland. One gets closer to the thoughts and lives of these people through more searching expression.
Here is one story which came from one of the writer's students in New York University. It may serve to lift some of the struggle of foreign folk, who finally won their way to America, more vibrantly before us. "My mother," said this girl, "lived in Russia during the reign of the Czar. She was a widow with three children. I was one of them. Though I was too young to realize her hardships, I did get some feel of the struggle. "Her dream, as we learned later, was to come to America with us. To make this a reality, she planned and worked. It would take money. We had scarcely enough to keep the wolf from the door. Yet once in a while she did get a coin she felt must be spared. "Her bank was a bag hidden in a pothole of our corral. Out she would steal to this in the dead of night and lift the post set loosely in the hole. Then, 'opening the bag, drop the coin into it, and return to the house. For several years, she persisted in this money saving. "Finally, came her golden opportunity .... Mother, seizing her chance, lifted her precious store, and brought us all to this land of freedom.
What a priceless heritage that dear soul, now passed away, has bequeathed to me."
Perhaps a million stories of similar import and spirit might be related by other freedom-seeking folk who finally made this their homeland. Dr. Edward Alfred Steiner used to tell teachers in their institutes, of his struggle as a boy to get to this country, and of the testing days after his arrival as a lone lad of foreign tongue getting started here. One first bit of advice freely given him at the outset was, "Remember, young man, in this country, God helps those who help themselves." He had come, he said, to a free country; yet, after the first day, with every cent of his money gone, he found that the only free thing he could get was ice water. In her America and I, another im-migrant, Anzia Yezierska, pictures vividly her beginning struggles in America. She had come with rosy dreams of quick wealth, of opportunities for expressing her soul in a free country. Sadly, she soon found herself disillusioned.
Forced to work to keep from starving, she finally took the only job she could find, one of "sweatshop" type, sewing black buttons on shirts. It was a cruel crashing of her high hopes. One day, in desperation, she went to a settlement house for advice.
Received rather coldly there, she gave vent to her pent-up feelings. Finally, the attendant, after listening to her plea for something better than the soul-searing work she was doing, said, "What do you want?" "T want America to want me," was her passionate reply. "You will have to show that you have something special for America, before America has need of you," came the reply.
After another burst of pent-up emotion and appeal from this immigrant girl, the attendant said, "America is no Utopia. First, you must become proficient in earning a living before you can indulge in your poetic dreams."
Anzia says she went out of that office with the light out of her eyes, and her feet dragging like dead wood. She had not made herself understood.
Something about America was different.
What was that difference? "I began to read American history," she continues. "I found from the first pages that America started with a band of Pilgrims.
They had left their native country, as I had left mine.
They had crossed an unknown ocean and landed in an unknown country as I. "But the great difference between the first Pilgrims and me was that they expected 'to make America, build America, create their own world of liberty. I wanted to find it ready made."
This re-discovery of America by an earnest girl of foreign birth became the beginning of her future success. It fs something that every new American, and those who claim a richer heritage by reason of forebears that go back to Pilgrim Revolutionary heroes must learn and keep learning to hold their Americanism true and safe. Our land of liberty is not ready made for any one of us; it is a land of opportunity of service, of freedom, for those willing to work or fight, if need be, for that boon.
Something deeper than mere material aspects explains the thronging of folk from many lands to our shores.
What is it?
Here is a simple answer from a fifth grade school boy. The writer had asked of a class, "Why are you glad you live in America?"
Varied replies came from the eager youngsters. Finally, this lad said, "J am glad I live in America, because in America it is not where you come from, it's you." Everyone, even a child, wants to feel the spirit of fair play, of equality of opportunity; and that is just what the country affords for all who come with honest purpose seeking its privileges. If one poem more than another, from a foreign strand, voices the true heart of America, it is "A Man's a Man for a' That" by Robert Burns.
Following are stanzas from that classic. It was written, so it is said, when this gifted poet, after entertaining some of the Scottish nobility, had been sent to eat with the servants.
Burns passed back his feelings over such aristocratic treatment through a poem that has rung round the world: 

 —FEBRUARY 1947 LESSON DEPARTMENT Is there for honest Poverty That hings his head, and a' that; The coward slave — we pass him by, We dare be poor for a' that! For a' that, and a' that. Our toils obscure an' a' that, The rank is but the guinea's stamp, The Man's the gowd for a' that.
What though on hamely fare we dine, Wear hoddi n grey,an 'a'that; Gie fools their silks and knavesvtheir wine; A Man's a Man for a' that: For a' that, and a' that, Their tinsel show, an' a' that; The honest man, tho' e'er sae poor, Is king o' men for a ' that.
Then let us pray that come it may, (As come it will for a' that,) That Sense and Worth, o'er a' the earth, Shall bear the green, an' a' that. For a' that, and a' that, It's coming yet for a' that, That Man to Man, the world o'er, Shall brothers be for a' that. An outstanding literary creation, whose name has become classic, is The Melting Pot, a stirring drama by Israel Zangwill. Its hero, David, an immigrant youth, who has escaped from Old World tyranny, finally reaches America, and as he looks upon New York, with its im-pressive skyline and the Statue of Liberty, exclaims: There she lies, the great Melting-Pot — listen! Can't you hear the roaring and bubbling?
There gapes her mouth — the harbor where a thousand mammoth feeders come from the ends of the world to pour in their human freight. Ah, what a stirring and a seething!
Celt and Latin, Slav and Teuton, Greek and Syrian, — black and yellow — Jew and Gentile — Yes, East and West, North and South, the palm and the pine, the pole and the equator, the crescent and the cross — how the great Alchemist melts and fuses them with his purging flame!
Here shall they all unite to build the Republic of Man and the Kingdom of God. Ah, what is the glory of Rome and Jerusalem where all nations and races come to worship and look back, compared to the glory of America, where all races and nations come to labor and look forward! Yes, America is truly a "melting pot"— yet one of her most serious problems is, and ever has been, to make the melting most successful. How can the melting, the fusing, the refining process best be promoted? An experience of the writer, in boyhood, provides an analogy that may point helpfully to the answer.
During his youthful years, he was reared near the old Jordan smelter; and often, with other young play-mates, would watch, with eager interest, the magical process of extracting the precious metals from the ore.
There it was, in varicolored piles from the mines of Bingham, Alta, Park City, Eureka, and other nearby camps.
Workers would cart this ore to the "melting pot" or huge retort.
Then they would shovel into this receptacle some of it; and add a lay-er of limestone, then more ore, and more limestone.
When the "melting pot" was about filled, the fire beneath it would be set roaring.
Finally came the tapping of the pot, and lo! the molten stream would pour out of its spout, to fall into in-verted conical, iron kettles on wheels.
These would be drawn to the edge of the great slag dump and there allowed to remain until the melted ore had cooled. A next step was to upturn the kettles, and out would fall what looked like big chocolate drops.
Along a workman would come and, with his sledge hammer, give each of these a crack, and knock off its tip.
That ingot contained the gold, silver, or
134 RELIEF Society MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1947 other valuable metal which had sunk to the bottom of the conical kettle when the melting took place. Upturned, it formed the tip of the cone. "What had the limestone to do wit h the process?" someone may ask.
That was added to promote the fusing or melting of the ore. It helped to bring out the precious metals.
This fact we youngsters learned afterwards in school.
Right here is the main point of our analogy. To get the best out of folk of different origins— particularly to bring them into more cooperative working relationship, there must be something to promote the fusion of their natures.
This may be found in a common language, in literature of common appeal, in mu-sic, art, and education in a general sense.
Most vital, however, of all the fusing elements is true religion. In the story of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints is striking and abundant proof of the beneficent effects of the gospel in promoting brotherhood, unity, concerted action for the common good. Our people, gathered from many lands, have come through testing hardships to our land of Zion, and, under the fusing influence of the gospel, performed a mighty work and a wonder in making "the desert blossom as a rose"— but more vital still in redeeming souls and leading hon-est, God-fearing folk along the path of righteousness. Now the golden, the challenging opportunity to share with all the world the glories of the restored gospel has come. Our America— Land of All Nations— has the position of leadership in the mighty development. As a people, the Latter-day Saints have had a foundational training for the great work of guiding and inspiring folk of every clime towards freedom along the way of truth and goodness. Our prayer is that we shall play the role with true faith, courage and understanding in the great drama that lies ahead.
