[Vol34 | February 1947 | Sequence: 18 | Category: Article | Title: Social Science Gratitude Committee]
LESSON DEPARTMENT 139
Social Science—The Family in the Gospel Plan Lesson 7—Gratitude in the Home Social Science Committee, Leone O. Jacobs, Chairman For Tuesday, May 27, 1947
Objective: To point out that it is not enough to feel gratitude, but that it must be expressed in word and deed, if a lasting impression is to be made upon family members. I will praise thee, O Lord, with my whole heart; I will shew forth all thy marvellous works. I will be glad and rejoice in thee: I will sing praise to thy name, O thou most High. Psalm 9:1-2 SO David, one of the most beloved characters in the Old Testament, expressed his gratitude to God.
Many of the psalms are revealing poems of praise and thanksgiving. (See Psalms 30, 63, 95, 98, 116, 145, 147, 148, 149, 150.) Cicero, the celebrated Roman author, orator, and philosopher once said: "Gratitude is not only the greatest of virtues but the parent of all the others."
Said another writer: "Blessed is any man or woman with a grateful heart."
Outward expressions of gratitude are good for the soul.
They bring joy and encouragement to the recipient and growth and happiness to the giver.
Expressions of gratitude stimulate love and, if we have love in our hearts, we will have inner peace. Our countenances will be radiant, our thoughts will be affirmative and not negative. A whole lesson might be written on the effect of our thoughts upon our health. We read in Proverbs: "A merry heart doeth good like a medicine, but a broken spirit drieth up the bones." A modern writer, William George Jordan, in his book The Power of Truth, states that gratitude gives new life and energy to the individual from whom it emanates." We have all had well up within us, feelings of gratitude, and, though we may not be able to express our worshipful attitude in such lofty language as did David, the psalmist, we can feel as deep a sense of gratitude as he did, and we can translate - our thanks to God into the acts of our daily lives. It has been said that gratitude is love in action. Henry Drummond, in his worthwhile essay "The Greatest Thing in the World," claims that love, as analyzed by the Apostle Paul, in the thirteenth chapter of First Corinthians, is more to be desired than any other gift. If gratitude is love in action, we may apply all that Drummond says concerning this quality to that of gratitude: The business of our lives, is to have these things fitted into our characters.
That is the supreme work to which we need to address ourselves in this world. Is life not full of opportunities for learning love? The world is not a playground; it is a school room.
Life is not a holiday, but an education. And the one eternal lesson for us all is how better we can love.
What makes a man a good artist, a good sculptor, a good musician? Practice.
What makes a man a good linguist, a good stenographer? Practice.
What makes a man a good man? Practice.
Nothing else. If a man does not exercise his arm he develops no bicep muscles; and if a man does not exercise his soul, he acquires no muscle in his soul, no strength of character, no vigor of moral fibre nor beauty of spiritual growth. It is, therefore, plain that the chief concern of parents should be to provide their families with exercises in soul development. And, of these, none will contribute to greater beauty of spiritual growth than the habit of sincere expressions of gratitude through the acts of their daily lives.
Politeness may be nothing more than gratitude expressed for trifles.
Courtesy has been called love in little things.
Carlyle said of Robert Burns that there was. No truer gentleman in Europe than the ploughman poet. "It was because he had gratitude in his heart for all things—the mouse, the daisy, and all things great and small that God had created." It is well for newly married couples to resolve to continue the little courtesies of their courtship days, since respect, admiration, and love must be fed if they are to grow. Otherwise, the everyday affairs of life may make it prosaic. The wife who notes the discontinuance of certain small acts of gallantry in her husband, such as helping her on with her coat, putting on her galoshes, may have omitted those simple words "thank you" following these small courtesies. It should not be inferred, however, that a husband or wife should feel neglected if small attentions are not constantly in evidence. The beauty of wedding anniversaries, birthdays, Father's Day, and Mother's Day, and all such special occasions, is that they furnish an excellent opportunity for expressing gratitude. We may grow a bit sentimental on special occasions without feeling foolish. The person who is self-conscious about expressing appreciation, even on special occasions, can find an appropriate card to carry his thought. Let us not be like the Scotchman who, when his friend voiced the goodness of the recently deceased wife, replied, "Aye, and once or twice I almost told her so!" A certain woman has had her widowhood sweetened by the remembrance of an expression her husband seldom failed to make at the close of each day, "God was good to give me you." It cannot be impressed on parents too strongly that children are natural imitators. ''Those who grow up in homes where gratitude is habitually expressed will unconsciously acquire grateful hearts. A certain mother, who had five children, lost her beautiful, nine-months-old daughter. Her heart hungered for another baby and, when one came, the mother found herself expressing over and over her love for the child. It was not until she heard the little girl say, "Oh, Mommie, what would I do without you," that she realized her own words were coming back to her. If the mother reminds the children of the thoughtfulness of their Daddy, she will hear them thanking their father after a pleasant outing, auto ride, trip to the movies, or some other joyful occasion. During, or after a childish illness, a father may recall to the child the tender care the mother has given him. The mother, in tum, may remind the 

 —FEBRUARY 1947 LESSON DEPARTMENT child who it is that works early and late to earn the means that provide all of the necessary and pleasant things the family enjoys. One little fellow who had been unconsciously trained in these niceties, said to his mother, after his birthday party, "Oh, Mother, thank you for bringing me here." Children's birthdays furnish excellent opportunities for the parents to express gratitude for each particular child.
Some families, on Thanksgiving Day, have formed the habit of going around the table before the festive meal starts and letting each family member mention at least one thing for which he or she is particularly thankful. Parents, who follow the counsel of our Church leaders to resume the practice of having home evenings with their families, will find these occasions ideal times at which to teach children to express gratitude.
Tell them that they can thank their Father in heaven just as well as the grownups, and teach them to sing the well-known, little song by Mary Maple Dodge, which is to be found in the Primary Song Book: Can a little child like me, Thank the Father fittingly? Yes, oh yes, be good and true, Patient, kind in all you do, Love the Lord and do your part; Learn to say with all your heart...
Father in heaven, we thank Thee.
Children love to recite little poems, and the intimacy of the family circle furnishes an ideal opportunity.
Familiar verses, such as the following, couched in such simple language that any child can understand them, teach a vital truth in what constitutes real gratitude.
141 WHICH LOVED BEST? "I love you, Mother," said little John; Then, forgetting his work, his cap went on, And he was off to the garden swing, And left her wood and water to bring. "T love you, Mother," said rosy Nell; "T love you better than tongue can tell."
Then she teased and pouted full half the day, Till her mother rejoiced when she went to play. "I love you, Mother," said little Fan; "Today I'll help you all I can; How glad I am that school doesn't keep!" So she rocked the baby till it fell asleep. Then, stepping softly, she fetched the broom, And swept the floor and tidied the room; Busy and happy all day was she, Helpful and happy as child could be. "I love you, Mother," again they said— Three little children going to bed. How do you think that mother guessed Which of them really loved her best? Stories, too, without pointing too obvious a moral, can gain the attention of children and teach them to express their gratitude. It goes without saying that fathers and mothers desire their children to excel.
Then parents should express their gratitude for the well-doing of children.
This does not mean flattery, for flattery implies insincerity; but it does mean honest praise for worthy effort. Unconsciously, parents are prone to remark about children's mistakes rather than to note advancement.
Sometimes good behavior patterns are taken too much for granted. No matter how small the accomplishment, a parent should remark pleasantly about it. In this connection, review Aesop's fable of "The Wind and the Sun," and take to heart the truth it emphasizes.
