[Vol34 | February 1947 | Sequence: 27 | Category: Article | Title: The Skier Margery S. Stewart]
THE  SKIER 
Margery  S.  Stewart 
He  who  is  done  with  flying 
Knows  a  place 
Where  he  can  touch  the  sky, 
So  long  a  stranger; 
Where  clouds  will  hold  him 
In  their  light  embrace, 
And  mountains  welcome  him  to 
Awe  and  danger. 
His  poles,  the  stick, 
His  slender  skis,  the  rudder, 
He  wheels  into  the  heaven, 
Rides  on  wind. 
His  heart  soars,  feeling  the 
Familiar  shudder 
Of  cratered  sky,  hearing  the  thinned 
Singing  of  trees.     He  is  content, 
Cleaving  again  the  starry  firmament. 
Almighty  God,  we  make  our  earnest  prayer  that  Thou  wilt  keep  the 
United  States  in  Thy  holy  protection;  that  Thou  wilt  incline  the  hearts  of 
the  citizens  to  cultivate  a  spirit  of  subordination  and  obedience  to  govern- 
ment; to  entertain  a  brotherly  affection  and  love  for  one  another  and  for 
their  fellow-citizens  of  the  United  States  at  large. —George  Washington. 
(Prayer  after  Washington's  Inauguration  as  President  of  the  United 
States,  from  the  copy  in  his  pew,  St.  Paul's  Chapel,  New  York  City)

Pioneer  Stories  and  Incidents 
ON  THE  RIVER  PLATTE-II 
President  Amy  Brown  Lyman 
(This  is  the  sixth  in  a  series  of  true  pioneer  incidents  to  be  published  by  The  Relief 
Society  Magazine  in  honor  of  the  1947  Utah  Centennial  celebration.  Ed.) 
THE  following  incident  in  the  but  it  was  useless.    The  thirst-crazed 
life  of  Alma  Platte  Spillsbury  animals  smelled  the  water  and  sped 
is    related    by   his    daughter,  on  till  they  reached  the  river,  then 
Ruby  Spillsbury  Brown  of  El  Paso,  dashed  over  the  bank,  which  was 
Texas.  not  very  high  nor  very  steep.    The 
It  was  early  in  August  of  1850.  oxen  went  down  sideways,  and  the 
The  weather  was  very  hot  and  dry.  wagon  was  overturned  in  the  water. 
The  saints  were  traveling  west  from  The  running  men  soon  reached  the 
the  Missouri  River  along  the  plains  spot  and  fairly  snatched  the  mother 
of  Nebraska,  and  they  had  become  out  of  the   muddy   stream.     "Oh, 
short  of  water  for  both  man  and  where    is    my    baby?"    she    cried, 
beast.    They  were  being  urged  by  "Right  here,"  finally  answered  Bish- 
the  captain  of  the  company  to  trav-  op  Edward  Hunter,  fishing  the  little 
el  as  fast  as  possible  to  get  to  the  bundle  out  of  the  water  where  it 
Platte  River,  and  had  stopped  the  had  been  thrown  when  the  wagon 
caravan   scarcely  long  enough    for  overturned.    "But  I  am  afraid  there 
Fanny  Smith  Spillsbury  to  give  birth  is  not  much  life  left  in  him,"  he 
to  a  child.    A  blanket  stretched  over  added. 
the  bows  of  the  wagon  shielded  the  "We  must  bless  and  name  him  at 
mother  and  baby  from  the  intense  once,"  said  the  father,  and,  calling 
heat  of  the  August  sun,  while  the  the  men  around  him,  they  took  the 
father  walked  along  beside  the  wag-  child  in  their  arms  to  give  it  a  name 
on,  prodding  the  lean,  gaunt,  thirsty  before  it  breathed  its  last.    "What 
oxen.     Suddenly,    the   oxen    raised  shall  we  name  him,  Fanny?"  tender- 
their  heads  and  began  to  sniff  the  ly  asked  the  father.    "Alma,  for  the 
air.    They  were  nearing  the  Platte  Book    of    Mormon    prophet,    and 
River  and   could   smell   the  water.  Platte  for  this  great  river  from  which 
They  quickened  their  steps.    They  we    have    been    rescued,"    she    an- 
needed  no  prodding  now.  Suddenly,  swered.    By  the  time  the  prayer  was 
they  left  the  road  and  took  a  short  finished,  the  baby  was  crying  lustily, 
cut  to  the  river  at  quite  a  reckless  and  they  all  knelt  in  prayer  to  thank 
speed.    The  young  father  tried  des-  their  Heavenly  Father  that  the  life 
perately  to  get  them  back  on  the  of  this  little  child  had  been  saved 
road,  but  did  not  succeed,  and  he  so  miraculously, 
was  scarcely  able  to  keep  up  with  ***** 
the  wagon  with  its  precious  cargo.  IVfRS.    Margaret    Judd    Clawson, 
Other  men  in  the  caravan,  seeing  wife  of  Bishop  Hyrum  B.  Claw- 
his  predicament,  rushed  to  help  him,  son  and  mother  of  the  late  President 
Page  104

PIONEER  STORIES  AND  INCIDENTS  105 
Rudger  Clawson,  used  to  entertain  tion— for  everybody.  It  was  then 
and  amuse  her  friends  by  telling  of  that  they  bathed  and  washed  their 
her  experiences  on  the  plains.  She  clothes  in  the  river  and  scoured 
was  a  character  actress  in  the  old  their  buckets  and  tins  and  the  uten- 
Salt  Lake  Theater,  and,  therefore,  sils  in  which  they  cooked.  And, 
her  descriptions  were  graphic  and  while  the  women  prepared  the  even- 
her  imitations  dramatic.  ing  meal,  the  men  cared  for  the  cat- 
She  was  just  eighteen  when  her  tie. 
family  left  Council  Bluffs,  in  1849,  Mrs.  Clawson  had  two  youthful 
for  the  long  trek.  She  was  young,  romances  in  connection  with  the 
beautiful,  and  healthy,  and  was  so  journey.  The  night  before  she  left 
optimistic  that,  although  her  com-  Illinois,  she  parted  with  her  girlhood 
pany  experienced  encounters  with  sweetheart  (whom  she  called  at  the 
the  Indians,  severe  thunderstorms,  time  her  "own  true  lover")  with 
and  two  stampedes,  she  always  the  understanding  that  the  moment 
looked  on  the  bright  side,  yes,  the  he  was  of  age,  he  would  follow  her 
humorous  side  of  life.  "even  to  the  ends  of  the  earth/'  She 
The  Judd  outfit  for  the  journey  saw  him  next  forty  years  later,  when 
consisted  of  two  oxen,  six  cows,  and  he  had  a  wife  and  three  children, 
a  wagon.  The  oxen  were  well  bro-  and  she  a  husband  and  thirteen  chil- 
ken  in  before  they  started,  but  the  dren. 
cows  seemed  to  resent  the  idea  of  There  were  several  very  nice  young 
taking  turns  with  the  oxen  in  pull-  men  in  the  company,  which  made 
ing  the  load  and,  in  the  beginning  it  interesting  for  the  girls.  Among 
it  took  the  whole  family  to  put  the  them  was  one  who  became  infatu- 
yokes  on  the  cows  and  get  them  ated  with  young  Margaret,  telling 
started  ahead.  They  seemed  de-  her  she  was  the  only  woman  he  had 
termined  to  go  in  the  wrong  direc-  ever  loved,  and  that  he  was  sure 
tion.  One  of  the  cows,  old  Bossy,  they  were  exactly  suited  to  each  oth- 
a  favorite,  was  very  intelligent  and  er.  So,  after  he  had  proposed  mar- 
coy.  She  used  to  hide  in  the  wil-  riage  over  and  over  again,  she  finally 
lows  to  keep  from  being  yoked  up.  consented  to  an  engagement.  The 
However,  when  once  yoked,  she  was  course  of  their  love  ran  smoothly 
a  good  and  faithful  worker.  She  was  until  they  arrived  in  the  Valley, 
also  a  geod  milker,  contributing  a  where  they  had  a  lovers'  quarrel 
generous  amount  daily  for  the  fam-  with  no  making  up.  On  the  re- 
ily  use.  bound,  he  rushed  off  and  married 
The  days  on  the  plains,  according  another  girl  of  the  same  company. 
to  Mrs.  Clawson,  were  somewhat  "Such  is  the  constancy  of  men!" 
monotonous  unless  it  happened  that  Mrs.  Clawson  would  humorously 
the  scenery  was  unusual,  or  there  exclaim.  She  later  found  that  this 
were  wild  flowers  and  fruits  to  gath-  was  a  blessing  in  disguise,  for  in  time 
er— fruits  such  as  chokecherries,  she  married  the  late  Bishop  Hyrum 
serviceberries,  or  wild  strawberries.  B.  Clawson,  business  associate  of 
But  the  evenings  were  different  and  President  Brigham  Young,  and  for 
most  interesting.  At  that  time  there  many  years  superintendent  of 
was  real  activity— work  and  recrea-  Z.C.M.I.