[Vol34 | February 1947 | Sequence: 26 | Category: Lesson | Title: Work Meeting Sewing: Fashion Show Work Meeting Committee]
This  meeting  featured  a  handwork  display,  as  shown  in  the  picture,  and  a  special 
program.     Refreshments  were  served.

LESSON 
DEPARTMENT 
cJheoiogy— Church  History 
Lesson  24— The  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of 
Latter-day  Saints  Over  a  Century  Old 
Elder  H.  Wayne  Driggs 
For  Tuesday,  May  6,  1947 
Objective:  To  review  in  brief  the  ushering  in  of  the  last  and  greatest  dispensation — the 
fulness  of  times. 
T^HE  first  hundred  years  of  the 
Church,  again  established  upon 
the  earth,  have  marked  the  world 
with  new  light.  Greater  progress 
than  has  ever  been  known  to  man 
has  come  within  the  years  since  1830. 
Blessings— material,  intellectual,  and 
spiritual,  are  here  now  for  all  God's 
children.  As  a  Church,  we  lay  claim 
to  all  of  these  advancements  because 
inspiration  has  come  to  all  from  him 
who  knows  all  truth.  We  know  that 
it  is  by  no  mere  chance  that  so  great 
have  been  the  strides  in  science, 
education,  and  culture  for  all  living. 
Did  not  the  Lord  himself  promise  a 
restoration  of  all  things,  when  he 
spoke  the  words  recorded  in  the 
Old  Testament,  "I  will  pour  out  my 
spirit  upon  all  flesh"  (Joel  2:28)? 
Before  we  consider  some  of  the 
important  events  studied  during  our 
Church  history  course  these  past 
three  years,  let  us,  in  part  at  least, 
look  at  the  material  gains  that  are 
now  a  part  of  everyday  living,  which 
were  unthought  of  in  1830. 
Standards  of  living  today  have 
made  a  phenomenal  advancement 
during  the  past  century.  The  writer 
remembers  but  a  few  years  ago  an 
Page  124 
experience  at  the  New  York 
World's  Fair.  In  the  electrical 
building,  the  designers  of  that  ex- 
hibit had  re-created  a  street  of  the 
nineties.  Shops  and  stores,  board- 
walks and  a  cobble  road,  first  met 
the  eye.  Then,  there  were  unsightly 
telephone  poles  with  their  glass  in- 
sulators. Dim  lights  cast  a  yellow 
glow  from  the  high  crossbars,  and 
from  the  store  windows.  One  fairly 
groped  along  the  street.  And  this 
was  a  representation  of  the  new  elec- 
trical age,  a  great  advance  over  the 
candle  and  firelight  period  of  the 
1830's! 
One  walked  along  this  world  of 
yesterday  to  turn  the  corner  into  to- 
day's avenue  of  light.  It  was  like 
walking  from  night  into  day.  A  mod- 
ern boulevard  with  brilliant  lights 
greeted  each  visitor  who  gazed  into 
up-to-date  store  windows.  Every- 
where there  was  brightness  and  life. 
What  a  contrast,  and  in  such  sharp 
relief,  the  old  and  the  new  in  im- 
mediate relation  to  one  another! 
Somehow,  we  have  slipped  grad- 
ually into  our  modern  world,  and  in 
so  doing,  have  forgotten  how  great 
the  change  has  been.    According  to

LESSON  DEPARTMENT  125 
one  authority,  the  advance  in    the  Christ,  point  to  the  marvelous  ad- 
richness  of  personal  life,  so  far  as  ma-  vancement  of  this  age.  Assuredly— 
terial  conveniences   are    concerned,  T,                   ,     .      ^,      ,    , 
,                          .i              j  lhe   morning    breaks,    the   shadows   flee; 
has  risen  one  thousand  per  cent.  Lo!  Zion>s  standard  is  unfuried. 
In    the    field    of    medicine    and  The  dawning  of  a  brighter  day 
surgery,  within  the  past  one  hundred  Majestic  rises  on  the  world, 
years,   three  of  the  greatest  discov-  The  clouds  of  error  disappear 
eries  of  all   time  have   been   made:  Before  the  rays  of  true  divine; 
anaesthesia;  the  germ  theory  of  dis-  T1V;  §W  ,bursting  from  afar 
ease;    and   antisepsis.     These   have  Wl^  o  er  the  nations  soon  will  shine, 
assuaged    suffering    and    prolonged  And  now,  to  touch  again  the  high 
life.  lights  of  the  century  past,  in  so  far 
One  but  needs  to  dwell  for  a  mo-  as  its  narrative  is  connected  with  the 
ment  on  the  thought  of  the  atomic  history  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ 
age  into  which  the  recent  world  war  of  Latter-day  Saints,  the  Church 
has  plunged  us.  Truly,  if  ever,  that  came  again  with  the  divine  mis- 
Christ's  greatest  tenet— "Love  one  sion  to  elevate,  to  build  up,  to  regen- 
another"  must  now  become  the  erate.  It  has  taught  again  the  age- 
greatest  of  forces  in  human  life  if  less  truths  of  man's  correct  relation- 
we,  as  a  world  of  human  beings,  are  ship  to  his  Creator,  his  true  purpose 
to  live  together.  Yes,  God  has  in  life,  and  the  way  he  should  go  if 
poured  out  his  spirit  upon  all  flesh,  he  is  to  gain  ultimate  exaltation  in 
but  one  wonders  if  this,  the  begin-  his  Father's  kingdom, 
ning  of  all  good  gifts,  can  find  a  Four  things  stand  out:  a  vision; 
place  in  a  world  where  God  also  has  a  new  witness;  authority;  and  Christ's 
given  man  his  free  agency.  Church.    Upon  these  cornerstones, 
And  what  are  the  claims  of  the  now  rests  the  firm  foundation    of 
Church  in  this  age  of  wonders?  We  God's  modern  work  and  a  wonder, 
say  that  all  great  discoveries    have 
come  because  God  has  willed  them.  The  First  Vision  of  the 
He  is  the  author  of  all  truth,  his  is  Father  and  the  Son 
the  spirit  that  lightens  every  man  Joseph  Smith  was  the  instrument, 
that  comes  into  the  world.    These  and  1820  was  the  year.  God  began 
things  have  come  to  mankind  as  but  then,  for  the  last  time,  his  work  of 
another  manifestation  of  the  Lord's  the  fulness  of  salvation  among  men. 
will  to  bless  his  children,  and  with  And,    through   the   efforts   of   this 
their  coming,  too,  he  has  fulfilled  humble  boy,  the  world  has  come,  as 
the  greater  promise— that  of  restor-  of  old,  to  know  of  eternal  life, 
ing  the  gospel  of    the    Redeemer.  Small  wonder  that  Joseph  never 
Such  was  the  mission  of  the  first  forgot  that  he  had  "seen  a  light,  and 
vision  of  the  Father,  in  company  in  the  midst  of  that  light  .  .  .  two 
with  the  Son,  to  Joseph  Smith.  The  Personages,"  and  they  did,  in  reality, 
words,  "This  is  my  beloved  son,  hear  speak  to  him.    And  though  he  was 
him,"  have  rung  through  these  hun-  to  be  persecuted  all  the  days  of  his 
dred  years,  and  the  world  has  heard  life  for  so  declaring,  yet  he  knew,  and 
him  as  never  before,  in  evidence  of  dared  not  deny,  neither  would  deny, 
which,  we  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  that  he  had  seen  a  vision.

126 
RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE— FEIRUARY  \M 
As  he  walked  in  the  fresh  spring 
air  down  the  lane  that  led  from  the 
grove— a  Sacred  Grove  now— his 
Lord,  a  living  Savior,  who  called  him 
by  name,  had  left  in  his  soul  the 
music  of  an  eternal  voice.  Did  Joseph 
ever  forget  that  voice?  Never!  and 
that  voice,  though  it  came  like  the 
rushing  of  a  mighty  wind,  or  with 
the  still,  quiet  assurance  of  a  loving 
father,  was  ever  known  to  Joseph. 
And  Joseph,  like  the  chosen  dis- 
ciples of  old,  with  ear  attuned,  ever 
listened  to  its  solemn  counsel. 
Through  Joseph  Smith,  the  world 
today  has  the  words  of  that  voice, 
uttered  for  our  times,  "pregnant 
with  wisdom  and  purpose,  throwing 
a  flood  of  light  upon  the  gospel." 
Blessed  is  he  that  reads  and  keeps 
these  words,  which  may  be  found  in 
the  book  of  the  Doctrine  and  Cove- 
nants. 
A  New  Witness  ioi  Christ— 
The  Book  oi  Mormon 
Within  this  Book  of  Mormon,  is 
recorded  the  fulness  of  the  gospel, 
once  again,  for  the  world— the  Sav- 
ior's gospel,  with  its  sweet  and  pre- 
cious truths  to  enlighten  the  mind 
and  quicken  the  hearts  of  all  who 
hunger  after  righteousness.  For  God 
lias  said  that  in  the  mouths  of  two 
or  more  witnesses  shall  all  truth  be 
established.  Now,  the  world  has 
another  record  to  tell  of  Christ's 
message— in  addition  to  the  Bible. 
Authority  From  on  High- 
John  the  Baptist  and  the  Holy 
Priesthood 
It  was  the  15th  of  May,  1829. 
There,  in  the  brightness  of  the  warm 
spring  sunbeams  that  streamed  down 
through  the  trees,  two  young  men 
knelt,    Joseph    Smith    and    Oliver 
Cowdery,  and  spoke  their  wishes  to 
God.  Presently,  in  a  cloud  of  light 
that  exceeded  the  brilliance  of  that 
beautiful  day,  there  stood  beside 
them  a  heavenly  messenger.  Placing 
his  hands  upon  their  bowed  heads, 
he  spoke: 
Upon  you  my  fellow  servants,  in  the  name 
of  Messiah  I  confer  the  Priesthood  of 
Aaron,  which  holds  the  keys  of  the  min- 
istering of  angels,  and  of  the  gospel  of 
repentance,  and  of  baptism  by  immersion 
for  the  remission  of  sins;  and  this  shall 
never  be  taken  again  from  the  earth,  until 
the  sons  of  Levi  do  offer  again  an  offer- 
ing unto  the  Lord  in  righteousness  (Doc. 
and  Cov.  Sec.  13). 
The  Church  of  Jesus  Christ 
Again  Organized 
In  the  month  of  April,  and  in  the 
year  1830,  the  following  revelation 
came  through  Joseph  the  Prophet: 
The  rise  of  the  Church  of  Christ  in 
these  last  days,  being  one  thousand  eight 
hundred  and  thirty  years  since  the  coming 
of  our  Lord  and  Savior  Jesus  Christ  in  the 
flesh,  it  being  regularly  organized  and 
established  agreeable  to  the  laws  of  our 
country,  by  the  will  and  commandments 
of  God,  in  the  fourth  month,  and  on  the 
sixth  day  of  the  month  which  is  called 
April — Which  commandments  were  given 
to  Joseph  Smith,  Jun.,  who  was  called  of 
God,  and  ordained  an  apostle  of  Jesus 
Christ,  to  be  the  first  elder  of  this 
Church  .  .  .  And  this  according  to  the 
grace  of  our  Lord  and  Savior  Jesus  Christ, 
to  whom  be  all  glory,  both  now  and  for- 
ever. Amen  (Doc.  and  Cov.  20:  1,  2,  4). 
What  are  the  future  years  and  the 
blessings  for  the  children  of  men? 
Time  alone  can  tell,  but  of  this  we 
may  be  sure,  God  has  said  that  heav- 
en and  earth  shall  pass  away,  but 
that  his  word  shall  not  pass  away. 
It  is  upon  his  word  that  we  rely. 
That  word  promises  a  great  day!  To 
speed  its  arrival,  his  Church,  the 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter- 
day  Saints,  with  all  its  blessings  for