[Vol34 | February 1947 | Sequence: 23 | Category: General Feature | Title: Sixty Years Ago]
70  RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE— JANUARY  1947 
staining  from  those  things  which  are  age  was  asked  how  he  had  enjoyed 
detrimental  to  health,  getting  suf-  his  recent  trip  to  Yellowstone  Park, 
ftcient  rest,  and  some  wholesome  "Oh,  it  wasn't  much,"  he  replied, 
recreation.  It  is  unwise  for  people  "We  were  gone  only  four  days,  in- 
to live  at  such  a  high  speed  that  they  eluding  going  and  coming,  and  we 
endanger  their  health.  didn't  have  time  to  see  much  or  stop 
along  the  way  to  visit  anyone.    Just 
Recreation  hurry  there  and  hurry  back.    But  the 
We  know  that  pleasure  and  rec-  trip  I  really  enjoyed  there  was  the 
reation  are  also  important  to  health  one  we  took  about  thirty  years  ago, 
and  happiness,  but  there  is  a  ten-  when  we  went  with  a  team  and  wag- 
dency  today  to  overemphasize  rec-  on,  and  were  gone  a  whole  month, 
reation.     Young  people,  and  many  We  had  time  to  get  a  good  look  at 
older  ones,  feel  that  if  they  do  not  go  the  scenery  before  we  sped  by,  and 
out  several  nights  a  week,  the  world  to  get  out  and  fish  if  we  wanted,  or 
is  passing   them   by.    Many   social  to   lay   over   an   extra   night   if   it 
events  are  scheduled  for  each  night,  stormed,  and  to  stop  and  visit  friends 
so  that  people  are  forced  either   to  and  relatives  along  the  way.  Ah!  the 
choose  one  and  miss  the  others  or,  good  old  days!"    We  do  need  more 
in  some  instances,  to  visit  for  a  short  time  to  enjoy   and   appreciate    the 
period  at  several  functions.  simple  beauties  around  us. 
This  lessens  the  real  enjoyment  If  the  time  of  the  Sabbath  day  is 
derived  from  any  one  occasion,  spent  in  pleasure  seeking,  the  bless- 
When  there  is  an  excess  of  anything,  ings  of  that  day  are  forfeited.  There 
it  cannot  be  fully  enjoyed.  More  is  a  purpose  for  the  Sabbath  day  in 
pleasure  is  derived  from  one  party,  our  lives.  If  we  abuse  this  day,  and 
anticipated  as  a  real  occasion,  than  make  of  it  a  holiday,  instead  of  holy 
parties  every  night  in  the  week,  day,  we  are  depriving  ourselves  of  a 
which  become  commonplace.  blessing— we  are  forfeiting  a  part  of 
Many  people  are  surfeited    with  a  well-balanced  life.    People  should 
pleasure  and  cannot  get  happiness  plan  their  recreation   for  Saturday, 
from  simple  recreation.  Does  being  at  least  for  Saturday  afternoons.  And 
continually  on  the  go  bring  peace  evenings  may  provide  time  in  which 
and  contentment,  more  love  and  ap-  to  participate  in  most  forms  of  rec- 
preciation  of  each  other,  and  of  life  reation. 
in  general?    Certainly  not.  We  hear  Perhaps  we  have   more    pleasure 
men  reminisce  about  the    pleasant  seeking  than  is  necessary,  or   even 
times  spent    with    old    friends    in  good  for  us.    Maybe  we  affiliate  our- 
throwing     horseshoes     or     playing  selves  with  too  many  social  organiza- 
checkers.    These  are  simple,  leisure-  tions.     More  time  in  which  to   as- 
ly  pleasures,  but  filled  with  as  much  sociate  with  our  families  and  rela- 
interest  as  many  we  might  mention,  tives  would  be  beneficial.     Which 
Indiscriminate  attendance  at  mov-  brings  us  to  another  "must", 
ies  is  detrimental,  although  some  are 
worthwhile,  many  are  more  degrad-  Family  Association 
ing  than  uplifting.  Love,  and  home  and  family    as- 
A  gentleman  about  sixty  years  of  sociations  are  the  mainsprings  of  life.

LESSON  DEPARTMENT 
71 
Children  should  be  the  prime  con- 
sideration of  every  married  couple, 
for  they  bring  the  greatest  joy,  and 
are  the  finest  contribution  to  the 
world  that  it  is  possible  to  make. 
The  home  is  no  longer  the  center 
of  association  that  it  has  been.  It  has 
become,  in  too  many  instances,  just 
a  place  in  which  to  sleep— more  or 
less  a  stop-over  station  between  ap- 
pointments. If  we  but  realized  it, 
the  members  of  our  immediate  fami- 
lies are  the  people  in  all  the  world 
most  interested  in  our  welfare  and 
happiness.  The  more  closely  we 
mingle  with  them,  the  richer  will  be 
our  lives.    One  writer  says: 
The  family  is  that  fellowship  of  parents 
and  children,  created  and  promoted 
through  the  sharing  of  vital  interests.  The 
relationship  within  the  family  is  not  a 
thing,  a  definitely  and  finally  established 
bond,  but  is  a  process  which  goes  on  con- 
tinuously among  persons.  When  the  in- 
terests shared  are  many  and  vigorous  and 
significant,  the  relationship  waxes  warm 
and  secure  and  precious.  When  the  in- 
terests shared  are  few  or  weak  or  trivial, 
the  relationship  wanes,  gets  thin  and  il- 
lusory, becomes  mechanized.  Going 
through  the  form  of  getting  married  and 
the  ordeal  of  having  a  baby  does  not  auto- 
matically make  a  family.  It  provides  the 
essential  persons,  but  they  must  achieve 
the  fellowship  distinctive  of  a  family  be- 
fore they  are  a  family  in  spirit  and  in  truth. 
Is  there  anything  we  can  do  to  fur- 
ther this  family  spirit?  Some  people 
say,  "Well,  that's  the  way  the  world 
is  today.  There's  nothing  we  can  do 
about  it."  But  society  is  made  up  of 
individual  families,  and  we  can  slow- 
ly, but  surely  do  something  construc- 
tive about  the  activities  of  our  im- 
mediate family. 
One  very  busy  mother,  who  gives 
lessons  in  elocution,  in  addition  to 
her  household  duties,  drives  with 
her  husband  quite  often  to  another 
town  some  forty  miles  away,  on  bus- 
iness. He  likes  her  to  accompany 
him,  and  no  matter  what  she  has 
planned  for  the  day,  she  arranges  to 
go  with  him.  "First  things  first," 
she  says,  and  she  thinks  her  husband 
should  be  first.  They  are  an  unusual- 
ly happy  and  harmonious  couple. 
An  old  proverb  says,  "Consist- 
ency, thou  art  a  jewel."  Some  moth- 
ers make  a  fetish  of  keeping  the 
house  spotless,  but  send  the  children 
out  to  play  with  no  restrictions  nor 
supervision,  in  order  to  keep  the 
house  clean.  Some  wiseacre  said, 
"Some  women  are  so  antiseptic  in 
housekeeping  that  a  germ  can't  live 
in  it,  and  a  man  won't."  Still  a  clean 
house  is  important,  but  not  as  im- 
portant as  properly  training  and  su- 
pervising a  child,  and  in  having  a 
warm  feeling  of  welcome  and  com- 
fort in  the  home.  No  amount  of 
time  can  be  spent  to  better  advant- 
age than  in  training  a  child. 
One  immaculate  housekeeper  says 
she  sets  herself  certain  duties  to  per- 
form each  day  and,  come  what  may, 
she  does  not  stop  until  they  are  all 
finished.  Such  an  attitude  is  not 
wisdom.  Cleaning  house  is  not  so 
vital  that  time  cannot  be  taken  out 
for  occasions  of  companionship  and 
culture. 
It  behooves  us  to  take  some  little 
time  in  which  to  read  the  happen- 
ings of  the  day  and  the  progress  of 
science— in  other  words,  we  should 
keep  abreast  of  the  times  and  store 
our,  minds  with  the  fine  knowledge 
that  is  around  us.  Reading  of  in- 
ferior literature  is  definitely  a  waste 
of  time  and  should  be  discontinued. 
"Dost  thou  love  life?  Then  do  not 
squander  time,  for  that  is  the  stuff 
life  is  made  of,"  said  Benjamin 
Franklin.     Time    is   precious,   and

72 
RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE— JANUARY  1947 
each  of  us  lias  the  same  amount  at 
his  disposal  each  day.  The  success  of 
our  individual  lives  is  determined  by 
how  we  use  each  short,  twenty-four 
hours  of  time. 
Brigham  Young  said : 
Now,  sisters,  if  you  will  consider  these 
things  you  will  readily  see  that  time  is  all 
the  capital  stock  there  is  on  the  earth;  and 
you  should  consider  your  time  golden,  it  is 
actually  wealth,  and,  if  properly  used,  it 
brings  that  which  will  add  to  your  com- 
fort, convenience,  and  satisfaction.  Let  us 
consider  this,  and  no  longer  sit  with  hands 
folded,  wasting  time,  for  it  is  the  duty  of