Sixty Years Ago Excerpts From the Woman's Exponent, March 1, and March 15, 1901 "For THE RIGHTS OF THE WOMEN OF ZION AND THE RIGHTS OF THE WOMEN oF ALL NATIONS" A WORD OF LOVE AND GREETING:... We bear you our testimony that the work we are engaged in is of God. That the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints and the Relief Society, which is a portion of that Church, were organized by the Prophet of the Lord. 'That we knew Joseph Smith personally, and saw and heard him many times speaking to the Saints when he was so filled with the Spirit of the Lord that his countenance became transparent, and he looked and spoke like a heavenly being.... We desire to leave this testimony with you all, and to have you understand and remember that the Prophet of the Lord organized our Relief Society that we might have the glorious privilege of doing the same kind of work that our Lord and Savior did when He was upon this earth... In looking after the sick and the afflicted, the poor and the needy... And all who are discouraged or in any way troubled. — Zina D. H. Young, Jane S. Richards, Bathsheba W. Smith, Sarah J. Cannon A WOMAN SUPERINTENDENT: Miss Estelle Reel, Superintendent of Indian Education, has just issued her annual report, from which the following extracts are made. Since her appointment 26 months ago, Miss Reel has been in the field 17 months, has inspected 49 schools, traveled 4,138 miles, of which 2,087 miles were covered by wagon, pack horse and on foot, over lofty mountains, through dense forests, on remote frontiers and over rugged trails between precipitous cliffs. —Notes and News THE POET He presses on before the race, And sings out of a silent place, Like faint notes of a forest bird On heights afar that voice is heard; And the dim path he breaks today Will some time be a trodden way. —Selected HOW TO FORGIVE:... We are all God's children, with all our faults and failings, and very liable to yield to temptation. If we are not able to do a great work, can we not do good in little things? Always having leniency one with another, selecting the good from a person's character and letting the bad alone; filling our lives with so much good that the evil will have no place whatever. —R. A. S. A TRIBUTE OF LOVE — JANE BALLANTYNE TAYLOR: | Sister Taylor was a woman of generous impulses and gave much to the needy, and she was especially charitable in her estimate of the character of others. It is said of her that she never spoke evil of any onc; silence was her habit when there was gossip... Unless she could refute what was being said. —E. B. W. Page 162 LANCA PEREZ is one of the rapidly growing middle-class Colombian women (South America) who are becoming important to the life of their country, and who voted for the first time in the 1960 elections. Although Colombian women were given the vote in 1954, fear and a lack of understanding prevented many from using this right. The growth of a strong middle class (between the wealthy citizens and the very poor peons) is Strengthening all Latin American countries, and women from this group have become very active in social betterment and educational projects. BETSEY TALBOT BLACKWELL, editor of Mademoiselle magazine, has announced the selection of ten young women (under thirty) who have received the 1960 Merit Awards for distinctive achievement. 'The women are: Patricia Bath, specialist in cancer research at Hunter College; Lynn Seymour, Canadian born, now a star in the Royal Ballet (British);