Grandma Had a Parlor Helen S. Phillips home with that "lived-in'" A look — what an apt description of most present day households! Seldom does an inch of space go to waste, so functional is the modern home. Yet, surrounded as we are by the miracles of pushbutton living, it is difficult to resist a twinge of envy when we consider the household of Grandmother's day. Grandma had a parlor. Not for her that "lived-in" look, at least not in that room! Grandmother's parlor was severely neat and forever tidy. As a matter of fact, she staked her housekeeping reputation on the appearance of that one room. Those were the days, remember, when the front parlor was kept closed off from the rest of the house. It was considered to be the family "no man's land," regardless of how many — or how few — other rooms there were in the house. As part of the daily cleaning routine, "straightening up the parlor' was always given first priority. No flick of dust was permitted to remain anywhere near the doilies on the organ, or on any of the rest of the furniture, for that matter. No wayward scrolls of lint ever dared to gather beneath the horsehair sofa. And absolutely unheard of were assorted toys or building blocks cluttering up the center of the room, or providing an obstacle course for the doorway. No indeed! Every day, Grandmother's parlor was efficiently cleaned and thoroughly polished. Then the door was closed firmly, and kept closed in Page 178 the event that someone might pay an unexpected call. Perhaps the Visiting Teachers might be making their rounds. Here was a room that could face any crisis! Remember how fascinating it was when, as a child, on special occasions you were permitted to cross the threshold of that inviting room? It always seemed to take a minute or two before your lungs could adjust to the closed-in, airless atmosphere. But after that, what fun it was to explore! Remember what a joy it was to admire the colorful bouquet of dried strawflowers? It was years before you discovered they weren't real. How entertaining to leaf through the family picture album which shared space on the front C room table with the family Bible. How fascinating to gaze at the framed portraits of your ancestors, some of whom even had real samples of the owner's hair pressed behind the glass!) Remember how you always held the giant seashell up to your ear as you listened to the roar of the ocean? Yes, and could anything surpass your joy the day you discovered you could read for yourself all those witty, delightful mottoes which were stenciled on the stiff sofa pillows? 'The colorful afghan, the braided and hand-hooked rugs, the crocheted -table centerpieces — all were made by Grandmother's nimble fingers, yet in your youthful eyes nothing was half so beautiful as the decorative spray of wheat, gilded with real gold. Apart from the nostalgic memory of those visits to that fasci- GRANDMA HAD A PARLOR nating room, thinking of Grandmother's parlor arouses a pang of envy for quite another reason. What a perfect housekeeping aid it would be if every present day mother could have just such a room! A real, old-fashioned parlor, not merely the family room which is currently in vogue. How comforting it would be to know that unexpected visitors could be entertained easily in tidy, uncluttered surroundings. A room where you could relax and chat pleasantly with guests, without letting your eyes stray guiltily to sticky fingerprints on the piano, or to the withered core of last might's apple that your teen-ager parked on the base of the floor lamp. How uplifting to the ego it would be if you could enter just one room in 179 the house, catch your breath at its gleaming perfection, and feel that perhaps you weren't the world's worst homemaker after all! How wonderful to have a quiet, peaceful sanctuary where everything could be kept in its proper place; a pleasant room that would never be shaken by teen-age tornadoes or pre-school cyclones. Well... Families grow up, and our responsibilities toward them lessen. 'That's as true now as it was in any of the "olden days." And even though we know it is a blessing to live in the most enlightened age of all time, it is still difficult to restrain an envious. Twinge when recalling the household of Grandmother's day. Because Grandma had a parlor. Lot a Drum Was Heard Dorothy J]. Roberts She passed in silence;