not a drum was heard Sounding for a medal pinned on bravery's breast. For courage beyond duty, no drum flared. She passed in quiet to the realms of rest. She gave a hero's measure with a smile On the rugged path of duty from her birth. Now unacclaimed before a cheering crowd She joins the unsung valiant of the earth. No drum was heard for one surpassing deed; Her days were hills she climbed without complaint. Now emptiness is tall where she has stood, Who reached the heights of hero and of saint. Jts the Se ood You &at Shat Counts Dr. Margaret Merkley Utah State University Nutrition Department T'S the food you eat that counts, whether you are eight or eighty. The number of food items in today's markets may make your choice confusing. Your daily food guide is an aid in pointing out the kinds of food to include in your meals. 'The United States DepartFood Groups I. Milk group II. Bread-Cereal group (whole-grain, enriched, or restored ) III. Vegetable-Fruit group Include: A citrus fruit or other fruit or vegetable high in vitamin C A dark-green or deep-yellow vegetable for vitamin A — at least every other day. Other vegetables and fruits, including potatoes. IV. Meat group Beef, veal, pork, lamb, poultry, fish, eggs, and as alternates, dry beans, dry peas, nuts. Ment of Agriculture has developed a food guide which will provide your needs for vitamins, minerals, protein, and other nutrients. These foods are grouped into four classes according to their nutrient contributions: Daily Amount for Adults 2 cups 4 OF more servings 1 serving: 1 slice bread 1 Oz. Ready-to-eat cereal "2, - % cup cooked cereal 4 or more servings 1 serving: % cup 1 orange or apple "2 grapefruit 2 OF more servings Add other foods as needed to complete meals and to provide additional food energy and other food values. Long life is getting to be a habit. Many people can look forward to living beyond "three-score and ten." But many, with the accumulation of birthdays, are not as healthy and happy as they could be if they were wise eaters. Indications of aging are not clearly defined. An adult is not a young person "grown up.