So You — With Love Christie Lund Coles You are the brook-cool drink Which slaked my eager thirst; You are the star I followed, The brightest and the first; You are the golden fruit I reached for from the ground; You are the dream of peace I sought.. And found. Recipes for Family Dinners Emma A. Hanks Papaya WHIP 1% ¢. Papaya pulp "2 €. Sugar juice of one lemon 2 egg whites Combine papaya pulp, lemon juice, and sugar. Beat in 2 stiffly whipped egg whites. Place in refrigerator until served. ORANGE - PapAYA MARMALADE 2 C. Papaya (ripe) 3 ¢. Sugar 1 C. Oranges Wash oranges, squeeze out juice, remove seeds. Put orange skins through a good food chopper. Add papaya, cut fine, to chopped orange skins. Cover with water. Boil all together. Add sugar. Boil until thick, about % hour. Papaya Pir 4 ¢. Papaya cut in small pieces 1 tsp. Cinnamon 1 medium-sized can crushed pineapple 2 drops almond extract 7% to 1 Cc. Sugar 2 drops lemon extract 5 tbsp. Flour Cut papaya into small pieces. Drain all juice from pineapple. Mix all ingredients together. Pour into g-inch unbaked pie crust. Dot with butter and cover with top crust. Bake 15 min. At 350°, reduce heat to 325° for 45 minutes. Tacos 1 doz. Tortillas 2 lbs. Ground beef 3 medium-sized tomatoes 1 head lettuce Make salad of lettuce and tomatoes. Boil beef in % cup salted water. Drain. Fry folded tortilla in deep fat. Drain on absorbent paper. Place small amount of beef and salad in tortilla. Season with hot sauce if desired. Variations: Combine beef with Spanish rice and place in tortilla. Combine plain cooked rice with chili con carne and place in tortilla. Meat Batis Wir ONIONS 1 beef heart | 1 c. Chopped onions " \b. Sweetbreads salt to taste (about 2 tsp.) 2 Ibs. Liver 1 tbsp. Chili powder 1 Ib. Kidney % tsp. Black pepper ', " tsp. Grated garlic 4 tbsp. Flour Chop all meat into very small chunks. Flour and fry brown. Mix pepper, chili powder, garlic, and onions and fry with meat about two minutes. Add flour to mixture and brown slightly. Add 1 qt. And 1 pt. Of water. Stir until it thickens into a thin gravy. Let simmer at least 30 minutes so all flavors mix well. (Serves 12 people generously. )