Editorial
======================================================================

EDITORIAL  Motto — Charity Never Faileth: THE GENERAL BOARD Mrs. Emmeline B. Wells...... President Mrs. Clarissa S. Williams..... First Counselor Mrs. Julina L. Smith.....  Second Counselor Mrs. Amy Brown Lyman..... General Secretary Mrs. Susa Young Gates..... Recording Secretary Mrs. Emma A. Empey....... Treasurer Mrs. Sarah Jenne Cannon Mrs. Carrie S. Thomas Mrs. Elizabeth C. Crismon Dr. Romania B. Penrose Mrs. Elizabeth S. Wilcox Mrs. Janette A. Hyde Mrs. Emily S. Richards Mrs. Rebecca Niebaur Nibley Miss Sarah Eddington Mrs. Julia P. M. Farnsworth Mrs. Elizabeth C. McCune Miss Lillian Cameron Mrs. Mrs. Phoebe Y. B'eatie Miss Ida S. Dusenberry Miss Edna Sarah May Davis McLelland Mrs. Donnette Smith Kesler Mrs. Lizzie Thomas Edward, Music Director Miss Edna Coray, Organist RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Editor. . - - Susa Young Gates Business Manager...... Janette A. Hyde Assistant Manager...... Amy Brown Lyman Room 29, Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah Vol. VI. AUGUST, 1919. No. 8. OUR RELIEF SOCIETY WARD TEACHERS. Not even the faithful and diligent officers of our Relief Society are deserving of more credit and more completely earn the love and gratitude of every man and woman in this Church than do the ward teachers of this great Society. It is impossible to even guess at the sacrifices made by these women and the good accomplished by them, in their visits monthly from house to house and from block to block. We know them and love them, and we know that not only in this world are they blessed, but that God and the angels await their return to the Other Side to crown them with the glory which is to be theirs. In this sphere of mortality, where life is too often measured by worldly success and superior intellectual gifts, their worth is often not realized, their value not measured. Every virtue in women's character is developed and required by those who attend faithfully to this humble but magnificent work. Faith, hope, infinite charity, long suffering patience, love unfeigned, these are the shields and bucklers which the Relief Society teacher girds upon her when she goes out with prayerful heart to minister in the homes of the people. The sick know her well, the fainting mother who welcomes her visit mourns her departure. The poor see God's own smile on her countenance when she enters their door, bringing both food and encouragement EDITORIAL 487 to their downcast and depleted homes. Wliat she doeth no man may measure, her reward no mortal can describe. Upon the teacher rests the large responsibility not only of ministeringto the needy and visiting the fatherless, it is to her labors also that the ward president looks for an increased membership in the society and for better attendance at meetings. Many times the teacher is at a loss just how to discharge this heavy obligation. She is willing to leave her home and spend several afternoons a month in her district either alone or with her companion, but she is often at a loss how to proceed in encouraging women to join the Society or to persuade laggard members to attend meetings regularly. She does not always know what to talk about and oftentimes her many cares at home and her natural modesty and diffidence hinders her from, talking on the principles of the gospel as she would like to do when she goes into the homes, lest she may unwillingly give offense. Her one greatest hope and help is in prayer. But she needs also some help and hope from those around her. Will it not advantage our whole membership to pay a little more public attention to our ward teachers, so that they may be stimulated and encouraged in their labors? Should they not have a special seat reserved for them in Relief Society meetings, on the front benches? It is doubtful if all wards and stake boards have a teacher's committee to supervise the labors of the ward teachers; to suggest topics, to discuss problems, and to systematize and regulate their visiting where possible. This might be done in union meetings, and the teachers should receive as much attention and be given a separate division of study as are the class teachers in other departments of our work. A teachers' convention given annually or biennially is an excellent method of encouragement and stimulation for these faithful and devoted women. The program should follow along the duties and privileges belonging to this lovely labor, while the priesthood should be invited and the public made welcome to the convention itself. Ward officers have much to do, so do we all, but their work would be lightened and responsibilities lessened and some vexing problems solved, if a little more thought and attention were paid to the ward teachers and their labors. We commend these suggestions to our sisters everywhere, and the General Board joins in loving salutations to the noble teachers of our great Relief Society. "GOSPEL DOCTRINE." A volume containing selections from the sermons and writings of our late beloved President Joseph F. Smith, has just been 488 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE published by the Committee on Courses of Study for the Priesthood. This book is quite different in scope and conception to anything yet attempted in our Church Literature. It is a magnificent composite picture of the great man who uttered the truths contained therein grouped and classified by a loving, reverent friend. What manner of man he was may better be determined through this book than by any biography whatsoever or by marble bust or painted picture. Doctor John A. Widtsoe has conceived and executed a remarkable monument to the memory and greatness of Zion's noble and powerful leader. The catholicity of President Smith's utterances, his depth of insight, his succinct mode of treating problems, his lucid approach to thought, and his powerful conclusions on any subject that he treated is admirably developed in this volume of his writings. No need of personal description of the man for no characterization, howsoever elaborately penned or enthusiastically described, could visualize him as does this valume. He stands before the reader the simple, direct, magnetic and chosen leader with few equals and no peers, save and except only his worshiped uncle the Prophet Joseph Smith and his revered, fatherly guide and protector, Brigham Young. Dr. Widtsoe was assisted in this great labor of love by his close friends and President Smith's ardent admirers, Professor Osborne J. P. Widtsoe, Albert E. Bowen, Frank S. Harris (grandnephew of Martin Harris) and Joseph Quinney, while Bishop Lorenzo N. Stohl generously paid the clerical expenses attendant upon the work. Not only does this book present a life portrait of President Joseph F. Smith, it likewise presents all.students of Church literature with a convenient reference book on the principles of the gospel with authoritative statements classified, compiled and indexed for instant use. Oh, that we had such a volume of the writings of the Prophet Joseph Smith and of President Brigham Young. What a contribution of real worth these three volumes would make for students who really want the gems of truth set m a circlet of golden value for convenient use and daily application. The book itself is one of the strongest spiritual compilations ever produced. It reveals President Smith as one the greatest and most inspired teachers of the gospel, who ever lived upon this earth. He shows such a careful, conservative spirit, he does not delve into mysteries, and yet there is such a depth of spiritual power that one is refreshed and inspired by reading a single page. No finer book except only the ancient and modern scriptures was ever put in print. It will live as long as time endures and truth remains. Guide Lessons. LESSON I. Theology and Testimony. First Week in September. THE COMPLETENESS AND DETAIL OF PROPHECY CONCERNING CHRIST AS SET FORTH IN THE BOOK OF MORMON. 1 History reached its pivotal point in the coming of Christ. Those who Hved before this advent looked forward to his coming in the meridian of times. Those of us born today, to employ the words of a well known English poet, "look before and after." We look before to the time when Christ did come, we are looking after his first advent to the time when he will come. Many beautiful passages are found in the Bible prophetic of the coming of Christ, but the Book of Mormon appears to excel in plainness and minuteness of detail. Many of these details have been brought together by the author of the Story of the Book of Mormon, and from his collaboration we use those best suited to our purpose. For it is written in the sacred book that he, Christ, should be born in the land of Jerusalem. His mother's name should be Mary, she should be a virgin of the city of Nazareth; very fair and beautiful — a precious and chosen vessel. She should be overshadowe4 and conceive by the power of the Holy Ghost. He should be called Jesus Christ the Son of God and at his birth a new star should appear in the heavens. He should be baptized by John at Betharaba, beyond Jordan. John should testify that he had baptized the Lamb of God, who should take away the sins of the world. After his baptism the Holy Ghost should come down upon Him out of heaven, and abide upon him in the form of a dove. He should call twelve men as his special witnesses, to minister in his name. He should go forth among the people administering in power and great glory, casting out devils, healing the sick, raising the dead, and performing many mighty miracles. He should sufifer temptation, pain of body, hunger, thirst and fatigue: blood should come from every pore of his body by reason of his anguish because of the abominations of his people. 490 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE He should be cast out and rejected by the Jews; be taken and scourged, and judged of the world. He should be buried in a sepulchre, where he should remain three days. After he was slain he should rise from the dead and should make himself manifest by the Holy Ghost unto the Gentiles. He should lay down his life according to the flesh and take it up again by the power of the Spirit, that he might bring to pass the resurrection of the dead, being the first that should rise. At his resurrection many graves should be opened and should yield up their dead, and many of the Saints who had before time passed away should appear unto the living. Here we have a veritable biographical sketch some of it written nearly six hundred years before the thing occurred. It could only be a product of inspiration for no one drawing from him imagination would ever say that the mother should be a virgin. Not even in the realm of fiction should we expect such a statement, much less in that which assumed to be sacred history. It would be the very acme of the absurd, anywhere outside the realm of Greek and Roman mythology where we do find stories of beings half mortal and half god. Again, how perfectly unnatural, judged from a human standpoint, itwould be to say that the Virgin should be born in Nazareth, that obscure city of despised Galilee. Equally striking from another point of view are the details in relation to his death, for the death of Christ followed the Roman customs and not the Jewish and no one could know the manner of his death, except it were revealed by the Lord. To the class of persons who believe that prophecy is always vague, set forth in such a fashion that anyone of two or more meanings might be acceptable in its interpretation, such detailed prophecy as we find in the Book of Mormon must be astounding. Jacob tells us why the Jews lost their plainness of speech. (Jacob 4:14.) And now, to turn to the second coming of Christ. The book of Doctrine and Covenants also goes into detail in relation to his second coming. It tells us: "For I," meaning Christ, "will reveal myself from heaven with power and great glory, with all the hosts thereof, and dwell in righteousness with men on earth a thousand years, and the wicked shall not stand. "And again, verily, verily, I say unto you, and it hath gone forth in a firm degree, by the will of the Father, that mine apostles, the Twelve, which were with me in my ministry at Jerusalem, shall stand at my right hand at the day of my coming in a pillar of fire, being clothed with robes of righteousness with crowns upon their heads in glory, even as I am, to judge the GUIDE LESSONS 491 whole house of Israel, even as many as have loved me and kept my commandments and none else; "For a trumpet shall sound, both long and loud, even as upon Mt. Sinai, and all the earth shall quake, and they shall come forth; yea, even the dead which died in me, to receive a crown of righteousness, and to be clothed upon, even as I am, to be with me, that we may be one. "But behold I say unto you, that before this great day.shall come, the sun shall be darkened and the moon shall be turned into blood, and the stars shall fall from heaven, and there shall be greater signs in heaven above, and in the earth beneath; "And there shall be a great hail storm sent forth to destroy the crops of the earth; "And it shall come to pass that because of the wickedness of the world, that I will take vengeance upon the wicked, for they will not repent, for the cup of mine indignation is full; for behold my blood shall not cleanse them, if they hear me not." No doubt every word that is found within the holy scriptures, concerning the second coming of Christ, will be as literally fulfilled in the due time of the Lord as the words that were written concerning his first coming. One interesting sidelight on the vision of Nephi concerning the Virgin Mary was given by the lecturer Mme. Lydia Von Finkelstein Mountford, who was a student of the Book of Mormon. "No one," she exclaimed, "but an oriental scholar would know that the Virgin could be designated by her costume. It is only the orientals who know virgins, wives, widows and nameless women by their dress." "And it came to pass that I saw the heavens open; and an angel came down and stood before me; and he said unto me, Nephi, what beholdest thou? "And I said unto him, a virgin, most beautiful and fair above all other virgins." — I Nephi 11:14-15. QUESTIONS AND PROBLEMS. 1. Show how prophecy that is full of details as to names and places would be impossible, save through one inspired of the Lord. 2. Show how prophecy in detail completely upsets the arguments of people who assert that prophecy is vague, and that its meaning may be met in several ways. 3. Why may the prophecies concerning Christ as recorded in the Book of Mormon be regarded as a veritable biography? 4. Relate some prophecies found in scripture that pertain to the Second coming of Christ. 5. Have some member of the class read section 45 of the book of Doctrine and Covenants, beginning with paragraph 26 and including paragraph 53. 492 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE 6. Are any of these prophecies, concerning Christ's second coming, already fulfilled? LESSON II. Work and Business. Second Week in September. LESSON III. Genealogy. Third Week in September. WELSH SURNAMES. Outlines For Class Leader. Origin. Tribal relations. Proper names followed usual customs. Surnames very recent and most are sirenames. Lesson Statement. The origin of the Welsh people rests in the mists of antiquity. They are a branch of the Celtic race and in some characteristics they resemble the Scotch and the Irish, but while they have much of the wit which is common to the Irish race it is tempered with something of the taciturnity of their cousins, the Highland Scotch. They are rather a silent people, not boisterous like the Irish, but they do resemble them in the haughty pride which is natural to a Welshman, while no one is so clannish as are the Welsh people. There are numerous witty stories about the Welshman's ideas concerning the antiquity of his race and their pride of birth. They would interpret the nursery rhyme to read "Paddy was a Welshman, and Paddy was a Chief." While on a visit to England sometime since we were shown a very long Welsh pedigree. One-third of the way down the line from the earliest ancestors was written: "About this time Father Adam was born." The history of the Welsh people is found in every general history and many of our Welsh people are familiar with their own beginnings. The custom of giving children proper names followed closely that of surrounding tribes and peoples. When Caesar invaded Britain he found a people governed by their Druids and bards. The Druids were the priests while the bards were poets and genealogists. The bards would sit for hours and recite over the GUIDE LESSONS 493 pedigrees of the various chieftains giving to each a little historic verse of descriptive praise. This seems to have been a common practice throughout modern Europe, and even the Hawaiians and Samoans inherited this custom, derived no doubt from their common Hebraic ancestors. The Welsh, themselves, say they are descendants from Gomar, the grandson of Noah through Japheth, but we may be sure that such of them as received the gospel, have come through the loins of Ephraim, when the Ten Tribes were scattered through the north countries and left their seed in the many nations through which they journeyed. At the invasion of Caesar, the Welsh people shared in the experiences of their English and Scotch neighbors but they were the last race in Great Britain to adopt surnames. It is true that they had the appellation, "Ap," which means "the son of," and when a man was referred to he was spoken of as Ap-Jenkin-ap-Griffith-ap-Robbin-ap-William-ap-Reese-ap-Evan. In other words, Jenkin the son of Griffith the son of Robbin, the son of William the son of Reese the son of Evan. King Henry VIII issued an edict to the principal land owners in Wales to adopt surnames, but the common people did not follow that example until much later. The Welsh were very religious and for a thousand years most of them have had Bible names. When surnames were finally adopted they simply added "s" to the proper name, meaning "son of," and we have Jones, which is the son of John, Davies, Williams, Thomas, Johns, Howells and Abrahams, all surnames derived from sirenames. Modern Welshmen have sometimes taken a middle name to distinguish them from the many bearers of their own given names and surnames. QUESTIONS. What is the origin of the Welsh people? Who are the Celts? What were the tribal religions of the Welsh people? How did they resemble their Scotch and Irish neighbors? What proper names are common in Wales? How were their surnames usually formed? Ask a descendant of the Welsh people to give a sketch of his ancestors and surname to the class. 494 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Home Courses. THE SIGNIFICANCE OF PLAYGROUNDS IN THE COMMUNITY LIFE. Lesson IV. Fourth Week in September. As cities have developed, an increasing proportion of the nation's population has been removed from the influence of the open country with all that it means for our national health and vigor and clean imagination. Cities have met this situation in three ways:— one is the making possible of brief visits of children and elderly people to the country during the summer time; another is the provision of city parks, which, with their fields and woodlands and stretches of green grass and water, preserve some of the beautiful features of the country for city eyes to feast upon; the third is the public playground which offers to city children a chance for some free sport in the open air and on Mother Earth. The playground is a place near at hand to which children can run on short notice and from which they can return quickly, so that the playground becomes an integral part of the daily life. Experience with the city playgrounds has proved that aside from its recreational advantage, the playground is of such great value to the right development of the child that its establishment for all children and all communities is justified and most desirable. It is not at all sufficient that the children be protected from danger during their helpless years, but that they be furnished with sturdy, disease-resisting bodies is equally important. Every child has a right to be as healthy as present knowledge can make him; health under conditions of modern life is not a thing which will take care of itself. The child bred under present conditions of civilization cannot be relied upon to grow to healthy, vigorous maturity like a rabbit in the woods. He needs special education in health habits and recreation if he is to develop normally. The child should be taught that health is more to be desired than fame or wealth — that it is the foundation of all real success and happiness. And supervised play is one of the best means of attaining and retaining that health. Recreation is essential to the moral life of any people. It is the constructive method of making individuals into good citizens, and the making of good sturdy citizenship is most important. The play spirit teaches us how better to live and work together; so GUIDE LESSONS 495 there is a broad relation between the playground movement and other efforts for better citizenship and better community life. Play means not only a good time, but from the child's point of view, it is serious business; moreover, it has vital significance in educational development. The playgrounds are training grounds for lessons that cannot be taught within the four walls of home or school. In a typical playground the policy of allowing children to learn by experience, but safe-guarding the experience so that it shall not be disastrous, is one of the underlying principles. In addition to receiving the physical benefits that come from wholesome outdoor exercise and the intellectual benefits that come from useful constructive work, the little children playing on the sand pile learn fundamental lessons in mutual rights. The older children learn lessons in mutual relationships by sharing the use of swings, by having to play by the rules of the game. Later, as they form into teams, they learn that self-sacrifice which is involved in the team game. They learn that the social unit is larger than the individual unit, that individual victory is not as sweet as the victory of the team, and that the most perfect self-realization is won by the most perfect sinking of one's self in the welfare of the larger unit — the team. Thus the child learns to control himself in these increasingly complex relationships. The control in a playground is the sort that obtains throughout well regulated society — the control by public opinion rather than control of either force or fear. The two great institutions that have to do with the training of the child — the home and the school — rest primarily upon the development of the qualities of obedience. The playground, alone affords to children the one great opportunity for cultivating those qualities that grow out of meeting others of like kind under conditions of freedom; it develops, progressively from babyhood on to adult life, that sense of human relationship which is basal to wholesome living. The development of the ethical social self must begin as soon as the child is old enough to have relations to other children of his own age, and it must continue as long as human life continues. And the people of the smaller communities need this training just as much as the city dweller. Democracy must provide not only a seat and instruction for every child in the school, but also play and good play traditions for every child in the playground. Without the development of these social instincts, without the growing of social conscience — which has its roots in the early activities of the playground — we cannot expect adults to possess those higher feelings which rest upon the earlier social virtues developed during childhood. The sandpile for the small children, the playground for the middle-sized child, 496 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE the athletic field for the boy, folk dancing and social ceremonials for the boy and girl in their teens, wholesome means of social relationships during adult life — these are fundamental conditions without which democracy cannot continue, because upon them rest the development of that self-control which is related to an appreciation of the needs of the rest of the group and of the corporate conscience which is rendered necessary by the complex interdependence of modern life. Therefore, it is vastly important that everything be done to infuse new life and new enthusiasm into the country districts. Home, church, school, and community must unite intelligently to produce conditions that will make for contentment. At first thought it might seem that country children have plenty of play and that they do not particularly need playgrounds; as a matter of fact, however, they do not play much, and if they do not play much they do not play enough. A physician has said that no one is so much house surrounded as a country girl, that no one is so utterly unwilling to take exercise in the open air, that no one is so likely to scorn as food, milk, cream, and eggs. The repertoire of games of the country children is surprisingly small and inadequate; their games are strongly individualistic, training them for isolated efforts rather than for cooperation. In order to discuss intelligently the value of playgrounds in rural districts we must see the playground as a social institution and in its proper setting; we must realize the social needs to which organized and supervised play is to minister. To most people the play of children may seem to consist chiefly of certain childish activities whereby health and pleasure are promoted, but we must keep constantly in mind the fact that the importance of play in the country is not so much to promote health as to develop social instincts. The playground in the country as well as the city, if it is widely developed, will prove to be an uplifting social project — a force of extraordinary power and vitality. Wherever it is established it will make people love their homes more, it will brighten farm and village life, it will broaden minds, quicken sympathies, and develop patriotism. In other words, the playground movement will cooperate powerfully in producing communities "That are governed by justice, dignified by intelligence, and adorned by health and refinement." Z. C. M. I. Factory School Shoes Made on the Munson Army Last or the English Toed School Shoes FOR BOYS, YOUTHS, LITTLE GENTS The Department for renting Temple Clothes at the Bishop's Building has been closed. Hereafter people desiring suits for rent may secure them at the Salt Lake Temple. EVERYTHING FOR ELECTRICITY & AUTOMOBILE ACCESSORIES 37-41 E. FIRST SOUTH WAY. 6700 Your Photographs Should Come From AMUNDSEN 249 MAIN STREET Better Work Because Better Equipment Established 1877 Phone, Was. 1370 STAR PRINTING CO. SUPERIOR PRINTING 35 P. O. PLACE SALT LAKE CITY THE BRUNSWICK-BALKE-COLLENDER CO. Carom and Pocket-billiard Tables for the home. Beautifully Illustrated "Home Magnet" catalog furnished on request. 55-59 West South Temple, Salt Lake City, Utah "DELIVERED EVERYWHERE" Ice Cream Special attention given to parcel post candy orders P. O. Box 1713 Salt Lake City Gospel Doctrine Selections from Sermons and Writings of President Joseph F. Smith. The Melchizedek Priesthood Quorums have adopted GOSPEL DOCTRINE as a text for class study for the next two years. It contains 700 pages, with a photogravure