Why The Sabbath? Elder George Q. Mortis General Superintendent, Y. M. M. I. A: "Remember the sabbath day, to keep it holy. Six days shalt thou labor, and do all thy work; but the seventh day is the sabbath of the Lord thy God: in it thou shalt not do any work, thou, nor thy son, nor thy daughter, thy manservant, nor thy maidservant, nor thy cattle, nor thy stranger that is within thy gates. "For in six days the Lord made heaven and earth, and the sea, and all that in them is, and rested the seventh day. Wherefore the Lord blessed the sabbath day, and hallowed it." (Exodus 20:8-11) THE Fourth Commandment has never been revoked. Notwithstanding it is so generally disregarded, it still stands as the law of God to the inhabitants of the earth, with promises for those who obey it and with penalties for those who violate it. The violation and neglect of the Sabbath, with all it connotes, has brought confusion and misery to the world. So many people, nominal believers in the "Lord of the Sabbath," do not seem to comprehend how serious and fundamental this commandment is. In a peculiar way this one commandment goes back to the very creation of the earth; its spiritual provisions for the welfare of man are integrated with the provisions made by Deity for man's physical well-being. "And on the seventh day God ended his work which he had made; and he rested on the seventh day from all his work which he had made. "And God blessed the seventh day, and sanctified it; because that in it he had rested from all his work which God had created and made." (Genesis 2:2-3) This Sabbath observed by the Creator became the foundation and type for the Sabbath that was provided for man in his earth life. The earth was formed as a suitable habitation for man; and water and the land, plants and animals were all created and the necessary provisions were made so that man would survive physically. As a final creative act, the seventh day was set apart as a day of rest, and in that day the Creator rested and sanctified it. It is evident that the same love and wisdom that led to providing food and materials for shelter and clothing and that tempered the elements to make life for man possible upon the newly-created earth, also provided that when man pursued his life in the world so created, it was ordained that he should observe each seventh day as a day of rest, and that on that day he should worship the Creator who had mace the earth for him, and who had provided for him, among the other necessary things, his Sabbath. This Sabbath, the Almighty says, should be sacred both to man and to God. Since Deity deals in neither trivialities nor nonessentials, it must follow that man's nature being what it is, and man's relations and obligations to his Divine Creator being what they are, each seventh day of his earth life must be faithfully used for rest and worship or his life will be impoverished, and he will violate a sacred obligation with serious rePage 589 590 sults. How serious a matter this law is, becomes apparent from the words of the Lord as given to Moses, parts of which I italicize: _ "Speak thou also unto the Children of Israel, saying, verily my sabbaths ye shall keep; for it is a sign between me and you throughout your generations; that ye may know that I am the Lord that doth sanctify you. "Ye shall keep the sabbath therefore for it is holy unto you; everyone that defileth it shall surely be put to death; for who. Soever doeth any work therein, that soul shall be cut off from among his people. "Six days may work be done; but in the seventh is the sabbath of rest, holy to the Lord: Whosoever doeth any work in the Sabbath day, he shall surely be put to death. "Wherefore the Children of Israel shall keep the sabbath, to observe the sabbath throughout their generations, for a_perpetual covenant. "It is a sign between me and the Chil. Dren of Israel forever; for in six days the Lord made heaven and earth and on the seventh day he rested and was refreshed." (Exodus 31:13-17) F the Ten Commands given, this one was singled out as one of two most important and characteristic observances of the chosen people. Smith's Bible Dictionary says of it: "It is in Exodus 16:23-29 that we find the first incontrovertible institution of the day (Sabbath) as one given to, and to be kept by the Children of Israel. Shortly afterwards it was reenacted in the Fourth Commandment. Which gave it rank above that of an ordinary law, making it one of the Signs of the Covenant. As such it remained, together with the Passover, the two forming the most solemn and distinctive features of that Hebrew religious life. Its neglect or profanation ranked foremost among natural sins; 

 

 the renewal of it was sure to accompany natural reformation." This law has been again given to the modern world through a modern Israel. By the same Divine Creator who gave it to Moses, it has been given to a modern lawgiver— Joseph Smith: "And that thou mayest more fully keep thyself unspotted from. The world, thou shalt go to the house of prayer and offer up thy sacraments upon my holy day; "For verily this is a day appointed unto you to rest from your labors, and to pay thy devotions unto the Most High; "Nevertheless thy vows shall be offered up in righteousness on all days and at all times; "But remember that on this, the Lord's day, thou shalt offer thine oblations and thy sacraments unto the Most High, confessing thy sins unto thy brethren, and before the Lord. "And on this day thou shalt do none other thing, only let thy food be prepared with singleness of heart that thy fasting may be perfect, or, in other words, that thy joy may be full. "Verily, this is fasting and prayer, or in other words, rejoicing and prayer."" (Doctrine and Covenants, 59:9-14) It has thus been again set up as an indispensable requirement for the successful living of each life; it is just as necessary as the physical requirements of life—if a properly balanced physical and spiritual life is to exist. This is true with nations, peoples and individuals. God will not be mocked. His eternal laws work their inescapable effects in human life to preserve or destroy, as they are obeyed or violated. "The Sabbath was made for man, not man for the Sabbath." Such was the rebuke of the Master to those who prescribed ridiculous and fantastic rules for Sabbath Day observance and tried to trap Him. Since the Sabbath was made for WHY THE SABBATH? Man, man should have the right attitude toward it. The Sabbath is not a deprivation designed to impoverish, but is rather a high privilege designed to make life truly rich and joyful. It is largely a question of one's spiritual and intellectual capacity to devote one day out of seven to high spiritual pursuits. 'That capacity should be developed by all if they would truly live. Since the Creator ordained one day exclusively for rest and worship, the Church, of course, offers its members opportunities for worship on that day. A member who faithfully observes the Sabbath will probably be led to faithfully discharge his other obligations to the Lord. Conversely, one who fails in the faithful keeping of the Sabbath will probably fail in his other obligations to Deity. It is a key commandment. Brigham Young, speaking of those who were not keeping the Sabbath Day, said: "They are weak in the faith. Gradually, little by little, little by little, the spirit of their religion leaks out of their hearts and their affections, and by and by they begin to see faults in their brethren, faults in the doctrines of the Church, faults in the organization, and at last they leave the Kingdom of God and go to destruction. I wish you would remember this and tell it to your neighbors." | UITE generally the custom prevails to cease work on the Sabbath. Too often it makes way for a day of pleasure seeking. The essence of Sabbath observance is the worship of God. The home is the effective place to teach the proper observance of the Sabbath. The 591 conditions in it should be conducive to a sacred Sabbath. The spirit of the Sabbath should prevail. The home and the family should be in order, and preparation should be made because a holy day is to be kept. Life that day should be on a. Higher plane and should leave something that is to carry over till another Sabbath. No, the law of the Sabbath has not been abrogated. It has been reiterated. It is the counsel and the commandment of a loving Father, suited to his children living in this earth He created for them, to enable them to be true to themselves and to Him. These are His words concerning it: "And inasmuch as ye do these things with thanksgiving, with cheerful hearts and countenances, not with much laughter, for this is sin, but with a glad heart and a cheerful countenance— "Verily I say, that inasmuch as ye do this, the fulness of the earth is yours, the beasts of the field and the fowls of the air, and that which climbeth upon the trees and walketh upon the earth; "Yea, and the herb, and the good things which come of the earth, whether for food or for raiment, or for houses, or for barns, or for orchards, or for gardens, or for vineyards; "Yea, all things which come of the earth, in the season thereof, are made for the benefit and the use of man, both to please the eye and to gladden the heart; "Yea, for food and for raiment, for taste and for smell, to strengthen the body and to enliven the soul. "And it pleaseth God that he hath given all these things unto man; for unto this end were they made to be used, with judgment, not to excess, neither by extortion. "And in nothing doth man offend God, or against none is his wrath kindled, save those who confess not his hand in all things, and obey not his commandments."