(Doctrine and Covenants 59:15-21) Florence Jepperson Madsen Orea B. Tanner Instructor in English, Brigham Young University that follows its own course, yet keeps its banks verdant and flowering for miles on either side," wrote her mother of Florence Jepperson Madsen. In this one brief figure, her mother characterized the life of one of Utah's most prominent and successful musicians. Florence Jepperson Madsen's course from infancy has been a musical one. While a tiny girl, she stood at the family organ treading with one foot and reaching up to the keys to play the lead while she sang alto to familiar songs. Neighbors and friends came in to hear her and praise her. At the age of five, she was making regular public appearances. Florence came from a home devoted to the arts, especially to music and painting. Her father Samuel H. Jepperson, when he was thirteen, under circumstances of extreme danger and hardship, earned his first violin by delivering several loads of logs taken from Provo Canyon. Later he made musical instruments, taught music, organized bands and orchestras throughout the state, and developed an orchestra in his own family. He also distinguished himself as the pioneer landscape artist of Utah and has left many highly praised paintings for future generations. "One of the dearest memories of my life," says Florence, "is the joy we had in preparing our picnic and traveling in our buggy to some secluded and lovely spot where we Page 592 66 tern is like a river spread our lunch and enjoyed an afternoon of rest while father painted some beauty spot of nature. So trained were we to look for these lovely scenes, that to this day 1 find myself seeking out the picturesque spots that would make a suitable subject for a painting." Florence's mother, Minnie Johnson Jepperson, possessed a spontaneous humor, a deep love of beauty in all its forms, and a rich gift of spirituality. She, too, was a musician with a rare contralto voice, and was an outstanding soloist in Provo's early musical circles. With the guidance of such parents, the family, _ without wealth but with cheerful effort, cooperation, and sacrifice, created a home devoted to music, beauty, and to each other. All the children received a musical education, and have served their communities with cheerfulness and efficiency. Before she entered the Brigham Young University, Florence assisted Professor J. R. Boshard in his work as supervisor of music in the Provo City schools. After her study with Professor Anthony C. Lund at the Brigham Young University, she went to Boston to study at the New England Conservatory of Music, where she was graduated with high honors. She remained in Boston thirteen years, and during that time she was active and successful as church, concert, and oratorio singer. For eight years she was head of the vocal department at Lasell Sem- FLORENCE JEPPERSON MADSEN inary, Boston, which is one of the finest girls' schools in America. Mrs. Madsen's accomplishments in music are too numerous to list completely. She is renowned as singer, teacher, composer, and con- 593 teaching, she has trained many of our gifted and prominent singers. She has the ability to release to a marvelous degree the latent beauty in the voices she trains, and often finds and develops talent when it is FLORENCE JEPPERSON MADSEN ductor. Her singing is a joy to all who hear her. In listening to her sing one is never conscious of mechanics or training. One hears only pure music. Her singing is a perfect example of the artlessness of great art. Throughout the years of her entirely hidden to the ordinary ear. For two consecutive vears she conducted the music of the famous California Mission play. She organized and directed the first Oratorio Society in Provo. For four consecutive summers she demonstrated three and four-part ladies' 594 choruses at the National Summer Conference of Music in Chicago for the Educational Music Bureau. For the past sixteen years, she has spent her summers in Chicago, where she taught music at the Master Summer School of Chicago Musical College, whose president is the distinguished pianist and conductor, Rudolph Ganz. Her compositions include eight ladies' choruses and two anthems for mixed voices. The text for one of these is the poem by Dr. George H. Brimhall, "Oh, May I Know the Lord as Friend." Another uses as its text words from the eightyfourth section of the Doctrine and Covenants. On one occasion her "Indian Love Lament" was sung in the Boston Symphony Hall by a chorus of one hundred sixty-five voices accompanied by the full Boston Symphony Orchestra. Mrs. Madsen had the pleasure of attending the concert and rising to acknowledge the enthusiastic applause of the great audience. Not only has her gift of music spread beauty and joy, but so have her rich gift of friendship, her power to give encouragement, and her generosity in giving material aid when it was needed. She supported herself through all her study and managed somehow to provide four years of training in art and music for her brother and two years of musical training in the East for her sister. She has given material aid to many who could not have continued their studies without it. In a recent letter one of those who received her help and who has since found success in dramatic work says, "I shall al

 

 ways thank God for blessing me with a friend like you. I shall never forget your encouragement, love and material help... I feel so indebted to you and so full of appreciation because you held out a kind, loving hand when I needed it. You have spent a lifetime helping others, dearest Florence. I do hope your efforts and sacrifice are repaid in gratitude." This letter speaks for many, and it all bears testimony to the truth of her mother's statement: "My Florence! She has been big sister, friend, goodly benefactress, as well as student. Her personality is the harmonious blending of all womanly virtues and graces. Beloved and loving, she has touched the lives of thousands." Florence Madsen now holds the following degrees: Bachelor of Arts, Bachelor of Music, Master of Music, Doctor of Music, Doctor of Music Education. Through all of her study and success, her devotion and service to the Church have been strong, steady, and untiring. Her appointment by the First Presidency as a member of the Relief Society General Board was announced August 15, 1941. In 1922, Florence married Franklin Madsen. Since then, they have won their honors and degrees together. The choruses trained and conducted by the Madsens at the Brigham Young University have a large part in creating the reverence ~ and joyousness so characteristic of that great school. Society at large is made richer by a public servant such as Florence Jepperson Madsen. Home Accident Prevention No. II FIRES—BURNS, SCALDS, SHOCKS, ASPHYXIATION The American National Red Cross, in its publication "Home and Farm Accident Prevention," states that "among women, fatal burns are relatively more important than any other type of accidental death except falls.... Nearly three-fourths of the fatal burns occur in home accidents." It suggests the following simple home activities to prevent burns, scalds, shocks, asphyxiations: Chimneys and flue passages should be inspected and cleaned at regular intervals, and chimneys kept in good condition. II. Fireplaces, Stoves and Stovepipes Fireplaces should have a metal screen to prevent coals and sparks from falling out on the floor and to keep children from getting burned. Care should be exercised in banking coal fires for the night, and chimney dampers should never be completely closed. Keep wall paper away from stovepipe hole; keep stovepipeone foot away from all wood. Have a metal or asbestos plate back of and under the stove and out a foot in front to protect the floor. Drying clothes, shoes or kindling in the bake oven or near the stove or grate has started many fires. III. Lamps Keep lamps away from walls and curtains. Make lamp shades of something that won't burn, not cloth or paper. Children should not be left alone with lamps; nor should a lamp be left burning with no one in the house. IV. Matches Take matches out of pockets before hanging away clothes. Store matches in a metal container, where children cannot reach them. V. Rubbish and Trash; Campfires Rubbish and accumulations are a frequent cause of fire. Buy or build a rubbish burner. Do not pile wood, coal, or papers near the furnace. A metal container for ashes may be worth a thousand times its cost. Out when breaking camp. VI. Electrical Wiring and Equipment VII. Have electrical wiring done right in the first place and keep it in repair. Insist on sufficient fuse blocks being used and keep proper capacity fuses in them at all times. Have all electrical connections out of reach from the bathtub, sink and lavatory. The use of a portable electric heater in the bathroom is dangerous. Provide a stand for the electric iron, or use the type with a heel rest. Check over all electric cords and discard those that are worn. In lighting Christmas trees, the use of electric light sets with broken insulation or with improper fittings is hazardous. Any type of heating pad needs to be used with care and judgment. Gas Pipes and Equipment Gas piping should be installed only by skilled workmen, the meter far from possible flames or sparks. Gas jets or cocks should be adjusted to turn smoothly, but not easily. Watch pots to prevent their boiling over and putting out the flame. Care should be used in lighting the oven. Open the door to ventilate before lighting. Apply the match at the same moment gas is turned on. Never look for a leak with a lighted match or flame. VIII. Frozen Water Pipes Thaw frozen water pipes with hot water, not with a flame. IX. Carbon Monoxide Dangers Always assure yourself that the garage is open before starting motor of car. (Continued on page 652) Page 595 I.