SO MARK THE YEARS Celia A. Van Cott Once more the summer's fruited days are done; Dry milkweed stalks fringe fields of stubbled hay; The grain has ripened in the summer's sun, And crickets grieve the fleeting hours away. Down quiet lanes within the country now Tall poplars lift nude branches to the sky; No bird mate carols from. A naked bough— Fall's symphonies, the dry leaves shifting by. I love this healing interlude of rest, Fach graying furrow numbed by harvest's gain; I love to walk upon the earth's shorn breast And dream of life in spring's warm slanting rain. Soon storm's white wrath shall mound the frozen sod— So mark the years that wing us back to God. HAPPENINGS Annie Wells Cannon Like a jeweled queen, radiant THE American way of life might proceed normally and merrily were it not for the war clouds hovering over the horizon of our hopes. With the reopening of the schools and the clubs renewing their social study courses, there are many new books on the market. Some notable books by women are: My Theodosia by Anya Seton—gifted daughter of the writer, Ernest 'Thompson Seton —a pathetic story of the daughter of Aaron Burr; Mrs. Delafield of "Provincial Lady" fame offers No One Will Know, while Rebecca West in Black Lamb and Grey Falcon tells a Yugoslavian story. Then there is The Golden Skylark by Elizabeth Goudge, while Restlers Are the Sails by Evelyn Eaton makes an interesting bit. NEW YORK CITY claims to be the fashion center of the world today, now that Paris and Vienna are shorn of their glory. 'The Cornelia 'Taxi Company is hiring only women drivers, and women pilots are in great demand, so fashion may be largely uniforms. HELEN HULL JACOBS won the Seabright tennis games, holding her place thus far as world champion. MARY DEAN POWELL, daughter of Major Powell, who in 1869 took the long, perilous journey down the Colorado River and was its first explorer, is retracing her father's route this summer over the rough lands of Utah and Arizona bordering the Green and Colorado rivers. Page 608 September displays her gifts. DOROTHY KRISTY, "the Cinderella girl," is singing with the Chicago Opera Company. She is a protégé of Grace Moore. PATRICIA THOMAS, California girl, received the Amelia Earhart scholarship at the convention of licensed women pilots this summer. INGA WELLS, active in Church and social circles, died this summer. We also note a number of deaths of prominent women: Eleanor Lufkin Kimball, early resident of Alberta, Canada, and earnest worker in the Relief Society of the Northwestern States Mission; Edith Cherrington, poet and poetry analyst of Pasadena; Emma Endres, 104 years old, foreign correspondent and columnist; and Roberta C. Lawson, prominent clubwoman, granddaughter of the last chief of the Delaware Indians. Sarah A.