Relief Society Annual Stake Conferences ELIEF SOCIETY annual stake conferences for 1941 began on Sunday, August 24, with conferences scheduled to be held each Sunday thereafter (except on fast days) to and including November 23. Wherever feasible, two stakes will combine for a conference. According to the schedule, there will be a total of 51 one-stake conferences, and 43 two-stake conferences. A representative of the General Board will attend each conference. The plan of meetings is similar to that of last year, with a session for Relief Society stake executive officers, Relief Society stake board, bishops, and ward Relief Society presidents?all scheduled for Sunday forenoon? and an afternoon session for ward class leaders and visiting teachers. Since the separation of auxiliary stake conferences from the regular quarterly stake conferences, a change which became effective in 1940, the Relief Society stake conferences have taken the form of a one-day institute for officers and _ teachers, with no general session scheduled. All stake Relief Society presidents have been informed of the date of their respective stake conferences, and a supply of printed programs is sent well in advance of each conference for distribution to ward Relief Society presidents, who will inform the ward officers, class leaders, and visiting teachers of the time and place of the meetings which they are expected to attend. Page 611 The General Board deeply appreciates the work of stake and ward Relief Society officers in making the necessary arrangements for these annual conferences and in notifying all those who are expected to attend. Relief Society General Conference The semi-annual general conference of Relief Society will convene in Salt Lake City, Utah, Wednesday and Thursday, October 1 and 2, 1941. This fall conference features the educational work of the Relief Society. Stake class leaders are urged to attend the departmental meetings as follows: Visiting Teachers' Messages Theology and Testimony Literature Social Science A special departmental session of the stake choristers will also be held. The second day of the conference will feature an officers' meeting in the morning, for general officers, mission and stake presidents, stake officers and board members, and an afternoon session in the Tabernacle. The latter session will be open to the public. Relief Society Pin [N response to numerous requests, the General Board has arranged for the manufacture of an official Relief Society pin, the design for which was adapted from the official centennial insignia recently approved. The pin has been reproduced in two grades, both of identical design, size, and coloring, and will be available for sale at the offices of the General Board, September 15, 1941, and thereafter, at the following specified prices: No. 1 Pin of blue baked French hard enamel and 24 carat gold-plated, price $1.00, postpaid; No. 2 Pin of blue baked French hard enamel and 10 carat solidgold front (1. E. Gold-filled), with 24 carat gold-plated back, price $1.65, postpaid. Although this pin is being issued as a feature of the centennial year, the only date appearing on it is the organization year?1842. The pin will therefore be appropriate for use after the centennial and will be carried in stock regularly hereafter.