The pageant indicated that the courses offered by Relief Society?theology and testimony, applied home arts, literature, social service and music ?aid the home, "the key to a life beautiful." Jeanette Batt was soloist and Zilla Mattice and Velda Ostlund were pageant readers. Preceding the pageant, Clarice G. Sloan, president of the Portland Stake Relief Society, welcomed the new members in an impressive ceremony. Each new member was presented with an attractive booklet with a tiny key attached. On the cover of the book, in gold lettering, were the words, "My Home?The Key To a Life Beautiful."'" On the flyleaf of the booklet was a choice poem on the home by Marguerite J. Griffin. The book contained a copy of "The Perfect Earth Home" from the address, "Our Homes," by President J. Reuben Clark, Jr., published in the , December, 1940. Membership awards were made by Marjorie Centro. Following the pageant, refreshments were served in the beautiful lounge rooms of the Tabernacle to approximately 200 guests. Teressa S. Johnson pronounced the benediction. Accompanying this interesting report was an attractive membership card prepared by the Portland Third Ward. 635 Mount Ogden Stake (Ogden, Utah) N interesting account of mem. Bership activities in the Mount Ogden Stake is sent to us by Ella P. Farr, Relief Society stake president. Anxious to increase the Relief Society membership, the stake officers suggested that each ward prepare a book containing a picture and a short biographical sketch of each Relief Society member, the book to be filed away as a history. The stake board prepared a similar book, containing photographs of the eight Re-_ lief Society general presidents, past and present Mount Ogden Stake Relief Society presidents and stake boards, and all ward presidents; short biographical sketches accompanied each photograph. Both ward and stake books were very attractive; the stake board book designed by stake officers was prepared by the Handicraft Shop. To further stimulate membership, a painting of the mountain, Ben Lomond, by Mary Warnock, displayed at the Springville Art Exhibit, was donated to the Relief Society by Brother and Sister E. A. Larkin. Each month, this picture is to be awarded to the ward showing the highest percentage of membership increase for the month. In 1942, the picture will be permanently awarded to the ward showing the highest percentage of increase since 1937. In presenting the picture to the stake, Sister Larkin said: "There is strength in numbers, and we appreciate the joy of associating together. In doing for others, we attain the fulfillment of our greatest desires. This law was given to us by the Savior, when He said: 'He that loseth his life for my sake, shall find it.? 636 "In giving this picture to you, we trust that its influence will be 'thrice blessed'?may it bless Sister Warnock that she will paint again; may it bless the sisters who come into this organization through your present membership efforts; and may it bless and inspire all who view it." Another stimulating membership activity of this stake was the anniversary service held in each ward on Sunday evening in connection with the Sacrament meeting. Sisters Donna D. Sorensen, Alice B. Castleton and Leona Fetzer Wintch, members of the Relief Society General Board, added much to the inspiring services in three of the wards. Malad Stake (Malad, Idaho) NELLIE S. GLEED, Malad Stake membership coordinator, sent the following interesting report of membership activities in Malad Stake: "Suggested by the Idaho Falls Stake candlelighting program reported in January, 1941, "Notes 

 ?SEPTEMBER, 1941

 from the Field," candle-lighting ceremonies were held in almost every ward in our stake this spring. These services, held in connection with Sacrament meeting on a Sunday evening, have been very effective in helping Malad Stake increase its Relief Society enrollment, by June 10, 1941, to 72 percent of Latter-day Saint women in the' stake. "We have several wards which have attained almost 100 percent. With the active support of Bishop Guy Servoss and Mrs. Amelia Spencer, ward membership coordinator, Malad Second Ward made_ the greatest increase in enrollment. We are hoping to reach a still higher goal before December 31." The accompanying pictures are of new members of Malad Third Ward and Portage Ward Relief Societies taken following the candle-lighting ceremonies. Hanna S. Harris is Malad Stake Relief Society president.