[WomansExponent | Vol35 | 1906 | May | Issue: 9 | Title: WOMAN, THE MISSIONARY. | Author: GRACE INGLES FROST]

WOMAN, THE MISSIONARY.
	(Dedicated to Sister Laura Bennion, who has
recently departed on a mission to the Northern
States.)

		BY GRACE INGLES FROST.
Woman, thou who art so weak, and yet so strong,
Where upon the battle fields of life
Hast thou not stood?
And where may be the path that doth not bear
The impress of thy feet?
’Twas thou who gave our Lord and Savior birth;
’Twas on thy breast His infant head reposed;
Beside thy knee His childish prayer was lisped.
And when He upon the cross was nailed by those
He came to save,
’Twas thou who longest at His feet didst weep
Aye, and while within the sepulchre He lay,
’Twas thou who first didst visit there,
And unto thee it was that He first spoke,
When He had loosed the bands of death,
And rose triumphant from the tomb.

But though upon the field Thou didst appear
As one who acted well a mighty part,
’Twas not Thy right of heavenly things to speak
Like unto Him Thy head, 
Until the Light of Heaven had pierced the gloom
That for long years didst hover o’er the earth,
And God, in His great mercy and His love,
Restored unto mankind the gospel plan
In all its fulness.

Behold the woman now. called to go forth
With man unto the nations of the earth,
Bearing gladsome tidings of great joy
To those who in the gloom of darkness sit.
And has she on this field of action failed 
Her part to do?
Ask those with whom she labors side by side—
Ask those who in affliction’s hour have felt
The comfort of her kindly word and deed—
Ask those who on the streets have heard her voice
Raised in defence of truth, or prayer to God.


Hath not the heart of many a one been touched
While listening to those words of simple faith?
Hath not the mind of many a godless one
Been caused to turn back on the wheels of thought,
Unto the time when it in innocence
Had learned to pray be[-]ide a mother's knee,
And thus in looking back awakened into life
The higher, better self,
And caused it to reflect on what might be?
Full many a door hath woman’s hand unfastened,
That for long years did man’s bold knock resist.
And might have for all time since been unclosed
To gospel truth.
Had woman not been called unto the field.


[Column 1]
