The Courage of Children James Mathew Barrie, the British playwright, exalts courage above other virtues in his plays. It has been said that his heroes all have courage, but that his villains are without it. A story from the recent snow-slide at Bingham reveals this quality in children. From a young man who had been in the disaster, and a nurse who had rendered assistance we learned the following story on the evening of the terrible catastrophe. Many of our readers know that the two little Van Newland children, one a girl of about four, the other a boy of two and onehalf years, were partly pinned down and partly protected by bath-room furnishings. It is said that before their rescuers could get to them they could hear the little girl saying to the little boy, "Don't cry, they are digging for us." And when they were finally uncovered the little fellow had his thumb in his mouth, taking such comfort as that would afford, while the little sister, forgetful of herself, was saying, "There, I told you not to cry, I told you they would dig us out." These little children whose feet were frozen were taken care of and soon made warm and comfortable. They were soon to 
 learn that their mother and the little babe had perished. But the courage that they showed in this critical hour will do much towards carrying them on through life. Mrs. Amy Brown Lyman, Member of Relief Committee Mrs. Amy Brown Lyman, General Secretary, was appointed by Governor Dern a member of the Bingham Relief Committee. The committee is made up of men, Mrs. Lyman being the sole exception. It is very gratifying to an organization; such as the Relief Society, that stands for trained social workers and expert welfare work, to know that the matter of administering relief to those who suffered loss of life and property, in the Bingham snow-slide, has been placed in the hands of the Red Cross, a group trained in social work and trained in taking care of disasters. Amy Lowell It is not an accident that the two human beings who most profoundly influenced Amy Lowell's artistic and human destiny? Eleanora Duse and Ada Russell, the devoted and charming friend, now her literary executor, whose advent at Sevenels marked the turn of her career?belonged both to the stage. The poet might, she often said, have been an actress herself, or a playwright. One of her publishers attributed to her the "publicity sense," not of a generation but of a century. In any case she had a genius for catching the public eye, quite as marked as her gifts as a writer.?Elizabeth Shepley Sergeant, New Repubic.