Evan Stephens The Children's Musical Friend By Annie Wells Cannon
At an evening party given after the rendition of The Messiah, on New Years day, 1926, a well known musician and conductor made the following remark: "The people of Utah do not, I think, begin to realize the wonderful musical opportunities that have long been theirs. I do not know another community anywhere in America, where so many fine voices can be brought together and so easily trained for choral singing, and they have Evan Stephens largely to thank for it. His long years of service in training children's choruses, in his early advocacy of, and instruction in, part-singing created among the children a taste for good music and a talent for interpretation?in other words a musical comprehension, which as the years have passed has naturally persisted and been transmitted from one generation to another."
The ancient, quaint and music loving land of Wales was the birthplace of Evan Stephens. A straw-thatched cottage, nestled midst the trees among the softly rising hills was his boyhood home. From the sweet crooning of his mother's lullabys he learned the beauty of song, but little knew how deep within his child-


ish soul its light was hidden. Yet from earliest recollection music was with him a passion?truly a flame within, which would not be quenched. When a lad of twelve he came with his parents to America; and in the mountain gathering place of the people of his faith, he found in northern Utah a home. His surroundings here were perhaps not as romantic or historic as the old birthplace in Wales; but there was not lacking that humbleness of environment which somehow almost always seems to react kindly upon the spark of genius, causing it to blaze forth the more brightly through adversity. So, in the little town of Willard the boy's musical career had its beginning, when he became, though a mere child, a member of the ward choir, invited to join by one of those rare leaders who was able to recognize in the shy little immigrant something out of the ordinary. This choir was soon increased by the addition of other boys, and then young girls; and before long it became a children's chorus of forty members, with young Evan Stephens its director! The boy had discovered himself.
Quietly and diligently he began to gather such information and instruction as his meager opportunities afforded. Singing classes were organized for which he wrote songs, choruses, and operettas. These were produced in the "home town," wherefore Willard began to be recognized as having something unusual in a musical way. Moreover, almost all choir singing and choruses hitherto had been rendered with one-part singing. Stephens from the first would not tolerate that; he always built up strong alto parts, thus placing the sense of harmony almost above that of melody, and producing a most harmonious effect. This policy also tended to prove that in this little country village music was being not only beautifully but correctly interpreted. That "a man's gift maketh room for him and bringeth him before great men" soon was verified in the life of Evan Stephens, for in due time he moved from Willard to Logan, where there were larger opportunities for work in his chosen art. He had now been discovered by others, and the toilsome task of trying to make the work he loved secondary to that of making a living, seemed about to pass. The opportunity to follow the line of his choice exclusively appeared to be opening before him. Children's classes began to be counted by the hundred members, and children's concerts and other performances were frequently given. After about three years in Logan, his fame as an instructor and director having in the meantime come to the attention of a number of influential people, it was obvious that the capital and largest city of the state was the logical place for his future activities, and hence he came to Salt Lake City.
EVAN STEPHENS 177
Here the membership of his children's choruses grew rapidly into the thousands. The first class organized in Salt Lake City consisted of twenty members under fourteen years of age, selected from each Sunday school in the city, and taught free of charge. This was in March, 1882, and the class was held in the old Council House, the present site of the Deseret News building. These children gave a concert in the Salt Lake Theatre the following August, which created a genuine sensation, owing, the leader thought then and thinks now, to the excellent part-singing as well as to the mutual love and cooperation that had immediately been evidenced between the conductor and his pupils. By the end of this year he had organized in Salt Lake City three large juvenile classes, two adult classes and a fine glee club, added to, the following year, by an afternoon and night class in Ogden of over 500 children, besides an adult class. His services were also called for by the State University, where he had a class of the normal students, and then followed classes of children in the wards adjacent to the city, the movement at length spreading as far south as Springville, with hundreds of children under the Stephens training in all the intervening settlements. It is not easy to comprehend how he could divide or apportion his time so as to cover so large a field and to keep such multiplying appointments. But manage it he did, and thousands of men and women today are proud to refer to the time when they took vocal training under this beloved instructor.
But this intensive labor of teaching was only a part of Evan Stephens' activities. As the work went on, combined choruses from time to time gave interesting and delightful concerts in the large Tabernacle and other halls and churches. He instituted a series of May festivals in which his different classes took part, and to which came singers of wide renown. One of these festivals lasted an entire week, and during this time the various nations of the earth were represented, the children singing the different national songs, dressed in costume. The great artists, Emma Thursby and Myron W. Whitney were among those who came to join the children in these unique festivals, and they expressed high admiration for the Utah leader's achievement.
After four years in this line of work, Professor Stephens, realizing that up to this time he was almost entirely self-taught, decided to go east for instruction. He desired principally to acquire a wider knowledge in composition, to satisfy himself as to just where he stood as a musician and composer, and also for a careful review of voice training and orchestration, counter-point, etc. He chose the New England Conservatory of Music, considered then as now the leading institution of the kind in this country. He was received very kindly, and almost at once took


a prominent place among the leading figures of the institution. After a year's study he was offered a position with generous remuneration; but nothing was any temptation to this loyal son of the West, who was ever anxious to hasten home to his people and the thousands of children awaiting him. While at the Conservatory he entered one of the contests for composition, and submitted music written by him to the words of a song which Aunt Em Wells had given him, concealing, however, the name of the author. This song was awarded the prize as the best; and the master, in holding up the sheet of music before the three hundred or more pupils, asked the author of the piece to raise his hand. Then he added: "It has been stated that America has no distinctive school of music. If we had more such work as this, and plenty of it, we could refute that accusation."
When Professor Stephens returned home, he was sorely disappointed to find the Tabernacle closed, owing to the radical enforcement of certain laws involving the possession or confiscation of Church property. Consequently most of his musical efforts at this time were bestowed in the district schools among the children, while the adult classes grew into an opera company and choral society, which later became the enlarged Tabernacle choir of over five hundred voices.
Many chapters might be written of Professor Stephens' musical work among his people, but this article aims to discuss mostly his labors among the children. It is not at all irrelevant, however, to say right here that during his work as conductor of the Tabernacle choir, more than a hundred concerts in combination with great artists under his direction were produced, and through his efforts and influence the people of Utah have had the glorious privilege of hearing such world famed artists as Nordica, Gadski, Patti, Eames, Calve, Rosenthal, Paderewski, and a galaxy of others, not forgetting the great bands of Gilmore, Sousa and other instrumental organizations. During the years that he served as conductor of the famous choir, he traveled with them to the larger cities of the United States, east and west, where the organization and its gifted leader received the highest encomiums. It is a piece of well known history that he took his singers to the World's Fair, in 1893, where, in addition to giving concerts, they entered the great Eisteddfod; and while the Utah choir was awarded only second prize, it remains to their high credit that they were only beaten by an organization which was not a regular chorus or choir at all, but composed of artists selected especially for the occasion. Not the least of his causes of pardonable pride in his choir was the democratic arrangement of the personnel, not having prominent places for the best voices, but rather dis-
A CHOIR OF CHILDREN TRAINED BY EVAN STEPHENS


tributing them among the lesser lights, thus giving balance and strength to every part. In looking back upon his record, undoubtedly Professor Stephens' vast work in training voices will be regarded as his greatest achievement, though this of course does not at first appear in such a tangible or concrete form as his musical productions. Of his compositions, the state song, "Utah We Love Thee" is perhaps the most familiar; but the Sunday School Song Book and the L. D. S. Psalmody contain many precious and oft-sung numbers that are very dear to the hearts of the people, while "True to the Faith," "Our Mountain Home," and many others, where he wrote both words and music, show his poetic as well as his musical talent. His choral work is naturally more pretentious and inspiring, and for that he has chosen themes of Church history which make a wonderful appeal. "The Vision" is full of melody and in his own opinion his best work, though "The Martyrs" is doubtless more dramatic. These two inspirational productions have not only been given in all parts of this and adjoining states, but they have been rendered many times in other places, even in foreign lands. Their words have been translated into the German language and they have been rendered several times in Germany, even in that land of music most excellent having been received with high approbation. In this connection it is to be mentioned with regret that perhaps most of Professor Stephens' best compositions, and not a few of his choicest songs, have not been printed, but when rendered are sung from the written manuscript.
During the thirty years or more that he led the magnificent choir of the great Tabernacle, Professor Stephens saw the children of his early choruses grow to manhood and womanhood, and he watched their course in life with tender affection. He has seen beloved pupils with voices of promise, develop into the finest tenor, baritone, bass, soprano, and contralto soloists, and become great artists among their people. No father could be prouder than he is of their success; and now, in the evening of his life, taking his well earned recreation and ease, he enjoys the contentment and happiness of a charming home, which with all its surroundings he himself designed and created, taking as much pleasure in planting trees and shrubs and watching a barren spot change into a place of beauty as he ever did in cultivating a voice or constructing an operetta. Amid these delightful surroundings he is still working at his chosen calling. A home-setting most picturesque, where fountains play and flowers bloom, where, under the snow almost any time, one can find along the boxwood hedges, snowdrops transplanted from the old Welsh home, and blue-eyed violets that hide in shaded corners; where in the mir-
EVAN STEPHENS' HOME


rored lakes speckled trout play hide and seek under the beautiful beds of white water lilies. In summer time the place is all aglow with color and perfume?a spot of tangled loveliness that could scarcely fail to have a charm for any one, and would certainly be an inspiration to a lover of poetry and song. Evan Stephens knows fully that "Every good gift, and every perfect gift is from above, and cometh down from the Father of lights;" and to his heavenly Father is he ever grateful for the message of the restoration of the gospel that came to his dear parents, and for the opening of the way for them to come to this far western land to dwell with the Saints of God. For these blessings he has given praise and thanks in word and deed his whole life long?always sincere, always true, always grateful to his Maker for every blessing and opportunity. In his life's work he has shown a full realization of the truth of the beautiful proverb: "A gift is as a precious stone in the eyes of him that hath it; whithersoever it turneth, it prospereth."
Sevenels, Amy Lowell's Home
Yet when one drove up to the fine portal of Sevenels, in the green gloom of a summer evening, it was never to dine with the cousin of James Russell Lowell, or with the sister of the President of Harvard University, or, if one were a friend, to pay tribute to a celebrity. When the smiling Timothy had opened the door of the car and rung the polished silver bell, and one had entered that vast antlered hall, and sat down in the formal drawing room where flowers and paintings bloomed in a soft light, it was always with the sense that this was the abode of an artist. A spirit that transcended the luxury and formality that the eye declared brooded over the scene. It was a zestful spirit, spontaneous, vitalizing, and suddenly it took shape in a voice. A voice high pitched in timbre as the roof it emerged from, sonorously hallooing, summoning one up two flights of stairs to share the mystery of the bedchamber.?Elizabeth Shepley Sergeant, New Republic.