[Work Meeting—Sewing Children's Clothing, Preview]

Work Meeting) Preview of Lessons for 1949-50 VERY Latter-day Saint woman should acquire enough sewing skill to do the simple tasks required of a homemaker.
There are always hems to adjust, seams to be let out or taken in, collars to be turned, or some household article to be made.
There are still many women who need our help in learning to do these simple things. We feel that Relief Society has a definite responsibility to see that every woman is encouraged to participate actively in the sewing program of the society that her skill may be increased and that she may be of service in helping others. We suggest that special instruction be given in sewing again this season. A course in making children's clothing is outlined with the idea of meeting the needs of many of our young mothers.
There is great satisfaction in being able to make clothing for our children both from the creative and the financial standpoint. The designing and making of children's apparel has come to be a specialized field. 'The chubby child and the more slender one wear very different models.
What mother does not look with longing eyes at the exclusive models featured in children's shops? The purchase price, however, is more than most family budgets can allow but, with a little instruc tion in basic sewing, we can make things just as becoming and usually better fitting.
What mother's heart does not thnill to hear her youngster boast proudly, "My mother made this." We hope that the membership of this class will not be limited to younger women.
Those who have sewed for families now grown can be of great help to our younger sisters if LESSON DEPARTMENT they will come and work with them. Then, too, there are many grandmothers who will appreciate learning the little touches which will enable them to make an appreciated gift for a beloved grandchild. We feel that there are wonderful possibilities for the wards in following this course, and we hope that enthusiastic work meeting leaders will make the most of these lessons. The titles of the lessons for 1949- 50 are as follows: 48] Lesson 1.