[Let's Vary the Picnic Menu by Rachel K. Laurgaard]

Lets Vary the Picnic Nenu Y Rachel K. Laurgaard Illustrations by Elizabeth Williamson ——_ are not the only "finger-foods" that can be served at a Fourth of July outing. Furthermore, potato salad is not the only hearty salad for a hungry group of picnickers. Here is a happy twosome that should be more widely known in this fair land of ours. Perhaps it is the name that baffles us. Pjiroskies are impossible to spell and still worse to pronounce, but they are delectable to eat—and not difficult to prepare. Let's let the Russians call them what they like—we can re-christen them '"Bomburgers'" and Americanize them as thoroughly as they deserve to be. They are a combination of hamburger and doughnut that adapts itself perfectly to picnics. In place of the ever-present potato salad, let's borrow from the French and serve vinaigrette. In spite of its fancy name, it is a plain and wholesome salad. On the Fourth we celebrate the founding of the "great melting pot"—the land that welcomes all races with their customs and their talents—and, incidentally, their foods— and makes them all Americans! BOMBURGERS 1 Ib. Ground beef 1 tsp. Salt 1 small onion, chopped 2 tbsp. Sugar 1 tbsp. Flour % cup buttermilk 2 eggs 3 cups flour 3 tbsp. Cooking oil 1 tsp. Baking powder  465
Brown the meat and the Onion in g frying Pan.
Sprinkle with one tablespoon of flour, and Set aside to coo] slightly Mix eggs, oil, salt, Sugar, and buttermi]k Add flour, Which has been sifted With the baking Powder, Mix Well. Roll Out smal] amounts of this dough on 4 floured Oard.
Make them about the size of a large Pancake, and Place a In the center.
Then fold two of the si tightly, SO that the 0) Drop them In hot On One sie turn them Over, © warm or cold as desired VINAIGRETTE Diced Cooked carrots Chopped dill pickle iced cooked beets Chopped onion One boiled Potato, diceg Toss together with Mayonnaise lean tone and hue.
Tier on tier of Japis Lost in Sapphire wayes Above the, the Mallard floats bice-dul] fishes' mystic haunts. | Panse, the wild f° d €, Stalwart so n the Winds that how] and Nt €very crash of bough 1€ir SaVAgE spirits Soar.