[Table Settings and Flower Arrangements: Table Settings for the Canyon by Mary Grant Judd]

TABLE SETTINGS AND FLOWER ARRANGEMENTS vanized iron salvaged from an ancient washing machine. (The machine, long since useless for its original purpose, makes an excellent coal bin.) It has been such fun when on a tmp, to pick up some quaint little object for our canyon table setting. From Yellowstone Park came several little incense burners in the form of log cabins and a tiny bear to stand under a miniature pine tree.
Ever so small Indian baskets and Pieces of pottery were found in Mex. Ico.
There are even some little rubber donkeys, with natives astride, from faraway Haiti.
Some of my most prized possessions have come from the "five and ten." Here | found metal sets of cowboys and Indians and some very realistic bits of rustic fence to arrange as I choose. From Bethel, Maine, the home of my maternal pioneer ancestors, came some little birch canoes to float on our make-believe lake. HE lake is made of a Piece of broken mirror with plaster of Paris, painted tan, encircling it. The entire piece of metal that we use on the table is covered with green moss which we gather a short time before the guests arrive so that it will keep 457 fresh and moist.
There are always a few tiny wild flowers available, such as buttercups and forget-me-nots, with which to dot the moss. A few colorful rocks, bits of bark, and treelike twigs complete the setting for whatever figures we decide to use.
Wild flowers always make a lovely canyon centerpiece. I especially love a patriotic combination of red Indian paintbrush, white columbines, and bluebells, and they come as if ordered just right for the month of July. But sometimes it happens to be just between seasons.
This will give your Imagination a chance for free play. The oddest idea I ever used was one summer when it rained overly much, with the result that flowers were scarce.
There were, however, quantities of toadstools and mushrooms, with their umbrella-shaped caps delicately tinted in mauves, creams, and rose colors. These, with moss and rocks, made an unusual and really beautiful table. I remember particularly the huge fungus which measured a good ten inches across and held lighted tapers.
Next month I shal] talk about "glamour weeds." + Sinomorhs Christie Lund Coles Swiftly I lift my eyes To catch their loveliness, Like sprays of sequins On the night's blue dress, Like golden trumpets, Music, visible; Like shattered rainbows, Jeweled, beautiful, I watch them and my heart Lifts upward now to ache, Hearing the sputtering sound As new ones rise and break, And fall upon the night In such brief finery That ancient stars are dimmed Before their sorcery,