[Birthday Greetings to Sister Augusta Winters Grant]

Birthday Greetings to Sister Augusta Winters Grant Age Ninety-Three, July 7th gracious and lovely woman, rich in memories, and still interested in the affairs of her family, her community, and her Church, Sister Augusta Winters Grant, widow of President Heber J. Grant, finds much pleasure and contentment in the sunset time of her life.
Comfortable and happy in her pleasant home high above City Creek Canyon and Memory Grove, Salt Lake City, Sister Grant often sits at her window looking out upon the valley and the gleaming lake, thinking, perhaps, of the part she and her family have played in the development and growth of the city and Church. Sister Augusta, as she is lovingly called, is a precious link to the past, for she was so much a part of her husband's life that she still seems to be inseparably joined to him in the affections of Church people. She has many friends and a large family who make her days bright with remembrances, telephone calls, and visits. Relief Society women throughout the Church wish her a happy birthday and many days of contentment among the people she loves.  , Sable Settings and Slower Arrangements Mary Grant Judd Member, Relief Society General Board [This is the fourth in a series of short articles on table decorations, flower arrangements, and related subjects. In the coming months Sister Judd will present other suggestions suitable to particular seasons.—Ed.] Sable Settings for the Canyon E love to go into our canW yons—not only because they are so beautiful, but because of the complete change from our ordinary surroundings which the scenery gives.
Just as your guests enjoy wearing casual clothes for your canyon party, so they will welcome original ideas in your table settings to enhance the satisfying food which robust canyon appetites call for. So this month I want to talk about table settings suitable for out-of-door picnics, or to be used in canyon and country homes. It is in our family log cabin at Brighton in Big Cottonwood Canyon, Utah, that most of my activities have centered, so I am asking you to pardon me if I become a bit personal. | One affair that I shall never forget, because of the complications preceding the dinner, took place at the M. I. A.
Home at Brighton. I had planned a pioneer theme since the date was near July Twenty-fourth. When I arrived to set the long table in the dining room, I found, to my consternation, that a meeting of the general boards of the Y. W. And Y. M. M. IA. Was in_ progress there and would continue for some time.
What to do? It was suggested  that there were some window shutters stacked away for the winter.
Could we improvise a table by placing these shutters on wooden sawhorses? We did! I tried to use wrapping paper in place of a cloth, but the shutters were so wide that, even by using two strips of paper the length of the table, there was a gap of about seven inches in the center. Fortunately, I had planned to decorate with covered wagons, miniature bonfires, and pioneer dolls. I quickly ran outside, shoveled up some loamy soil, generously sprinkled with dry pine needles, and made a realistic road down the center of the table. The covered wagons and the bonfires looked quite at home.
These latter were made by placing dry twigs in the form of a tepee with bits of orange and yellow cellophane tucked under the twigs to simulate fire. A stick of burning incense placed in the top of the twigs made a spiral of smoke.
Place cards were bits of sagebrush tied with calico bows. An idea which I have used over and over, varying the central theme according to my mood, is to make an out-of-door scene for the center of the dinner table in the cabin at Brighton. The base is nothing more nor less than a large square of gal-