[The First Presidencies, Preview]

First Presidencies (Primarily for use outside Continental United States and its possessions) Tue Presi wENcy A Unrr—TuHeE THREE ARE ONE Preview of Lessons for 1949-50 T. Edgar Lyon URING our studies last year we learned of the activities of the five First Presidencies of the Church that served from 1833 to 1901.
These studies should have taught us two fundamental concepts. 'The first is that in the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, with no professionally trained Priesthood, there is need for presiding quorums. In our studies we learned that the Lord had established the First Presidency of the Church as the Presidency of all of the Priesthood and Church members throughout the world.
Functioning as a unit, the members of this Presidency have directed all the many different types of Church activities, both in times of stress and in times of peace. The second idea presented to us was that the Lord raised up men at the various stages of development and growth of the Church who were able to give the Church the leadership it needed at that particular time. We sing, "God moves in a mysterious way, his wonders to per- 496 form," and we see this made a reality in the study of the accomplishments of the various First Presidencies of the Church. So unified in purpose and devotion have the members of these Presidencies been, that it is almost impossible to designate or classify the accomplishments of an_individual member of a Presidency.
Through counsel and co-operation, they have worked to accomplish those things that were needful for the welfare of the kingdom of God on earth. Unselfishly, each member of a Presidency has worked for the good of the whole Church, not for position, honor, or power for himself. No great man has ever achieved success entirely alone. He may be singled out for his accomplishments and his aides remain unnamed, but they were nevertheless important contributors to his success. So it is in the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. The President is recognized as the leader, but he leans heavily upon his counselors. It should, therefore, be remembered that although we speak of the administration of a President of the Church, we are aware of the great assistance rendered by the unnamed counselors in the First Presidency, without whose aid the President might have been seriously handicapped. The Lord has stood by and  blessed those who have served in the First Presidencies of the Church.
They have accomplished _ great things in the earth.
Just as the early leaders were blessed, so have been those who followed them.
Individuals selected to this presiding quorum since the beginning of this century have been equally blessed with those who preceded them.
Each has filled his position with honor and efficiency.
This year we shall study the administrations of Presidents Joseph F. Smith, Heber J. Grant, and George Albert Smith, and see how God utilizes mortals to accomplish his purposes. The following are the titles of the lessons for the coming year: Lesson 8.