[Jesus Began in Galilee by Don B. Colton]

Jesus went one morning to the temple and began teaching one of the groups that gathered about him.
Here occurred an event of outstanding importance which illustrated his capacity as a teacher and judge.
While he was talking, a party of scribes and Pharisees brought a woman who, they charged, was guilty of adultery. Her guilt seems to have been admitted. The law of Moses required that such crimes should be punished by having the guilty one stoned to death, although this extreme penalty had long since been  abandoned.
Thinking to ensnare the Lord, the scribes and Pharisees asked, "But what sayest thou?" Had he decreed the death penalty, it would have been against the law of the Romans, since power to inflict the death penalty had been taken from all Jewish tribunals and adultery was not a capital offense under Roman rule. If the judgment were to release her with little or no punishment, Jesus would have distegarded the law of Moses.
These wicked rulers thought they had Jesus trapped. For awhile he seemed to disregard their demands and then said, "He that is without sin among you, let him first cast a stone at her."
That was the law.
Jesus began writing on the ground. The woman's accusers slunk away. When Jesus had lifted up himself, and saw none but the woman, he said unto her, Woman, where are those thine accusers?
Hath no man condemned thee? She said, No man, Lord. And Jesus said unto her, Neither do I condemn thee: go, and sin no more (John 8:10-11).
While the Lord declined to condemn her to death, he sent her away with the solemn warning to repent and lead a better life. The Light of the World The Master Teacher moved to another part of the temple court and, seeing the great lamps, continued his teaching, saying: " I am the light of the world: he that followeth me shall not walk in darkness, but shall have the light of life" (John 8-12). It was another way of telling them again that he was the Son of God—the giver of light and life. He did not often stop to argue; he proclaimed. He told them that he was guided by the Father who had LESSON DEPARTMENT he Prophets were dead and Jesus f te is thy h d dared to Say that al] who obeyed ather?" Fy told them that if th Y him woulg be exempt from death, had known » they woulg ave He had exalted himself above Abra 70wn the Fat ct also. The Phari- 4am. Jesus Proclaim his own su- °€CS would have Seized him byt they Premacy again. "Verily, verily, J Could not. "No man laid hang On say unto You, Before A taham Was, 'M; tor his hoy Was not yet come" Tam." « " Was a We-Inspirng title, J Was a dec aation of The Truth Shall Make Ou Free the Lord's etern! Godshi Jesus would be we for class memChrist of 44, cw Testament Was bers to reag John 8:21-59
Therein the Jehovah of the Old até found some of the Eternal = * e Tecords an Instance © Aaughty Jews of Sabbath day healj f more than e Ordina Mportance Jesus ang his Abraham, they were bondage to disciples SaW a blin beggar on the NO man, Jesus had id to them street. Th disciples asked this that if they would believe and fo]. Luestion: «yy ster, who dj sin, Ow him: * ye shall know the this man, or his Patents, that he truth, and th Tuth shal] ke you Was born bling?" te the Say. Free," Jesus knew, ang they kne > lor's Teply "Neither hath this man that Israe] had been; Politica] ned, nor his Patents: byt that Ondage. Even € that time they the Works of Gog should be m de Paid tribute to Rome he Savior Manifest in hj -~ Surely the quesMade it clea; that he did not Tefer tion and reply Imply tha it would CO Politica] freedom, but to "Piitual have } 1
Possible, hrough Choice Teedom aid he, "vy tily, Verily, for the man ¢ have sinned prior to Say unto you, Whosoever comhis birth, Owever, in this Case Mitteth sin; the seryan; Of sin." Neither h hor hj Parents ha OSOever sin Is in Ondage + sinned. The Savior departed from sin, They vere in the vil's bond. His usual] Custom age devil is th Worst sinne a Ough the man did not know » S€emed to Jesus as the Messiah, he Stoutly af Infuriate the wick d Jews More than firmed hat he had been divine] anything else T. Said: "Now healed 5 a prophet €sus later we know that thou 'hast 4 devil," Sought the man 478 known to him that the miracle had been performed by the Son of God. The man believed and worshipped him as the Lord (John g:1-38). Shepherd and Sheep Herder If time permits, the class should give attention to the great lesson taught in John 10:1-21. An account is given there of one of the Lord's most impressive discourses. Only through him may we enter the fold. He is the Good Shepherd. No stronger arraignment of false pastors and teachers was ever written. He explains how broad and comprehensive his plan is by saying: "And other sheep I have, which are not of this fold: them also I must bring, and they shall hear my voice; and there shall be one fold, and one shepherd" (John 10:16). 
Questions and Suggestions for Discussion 1. Relate the incident of the Jewish tulers trying to trap the Savior by seeking to get him to judge the woman taken in sin. Show how wisely he avoided their attempted snare. 2. In what way is Jesus the light of the world? 3. Christ's statement "The truth shall make you free" applies today just as it did when he uttered it. Explain how the truth makes us free. 4. How did the healing of the blind man on the Sabbath day show that Jesus Christ understood the pre-existent life? 5- How may a testimony of Christ be obtained? References in the Four Gospels Matt. 5:21-48; 7:15. John 7:1-53; 8:1-59; 10:1-21. Visiting Seacher ITlessages—Our Savior Speaks Preview of Lessons for 1949-50
Mary Grant Judd HE spoke to his disciples and the people in one of the most beautiful of all his sermons. It was here that he gave us the golden rule and taught us the two foundations. With what power he taught the people! "And it came to pass, when Jesus had ended these sayings, the people were astonished at his doctrine: For he taught them as one having authority, and not as the scribes." (Matt. 7:28-29.)