[Vol55 | October 1968 | Page 769 | General Feature | Notes From the Field Relief | Society Activities]
[Notes From the Field Relief Society Activities]

Relief Society Officers April 24, 1968 Retiring members of the Grantsville Stake Relief Society board, seated, left to right: Mary Imlay; Melba Wells; Lovina Lawrence; Hannah Fraser. Standing, left to right: Nell Shirts; Florence Hayes; Lucille Anderson; Fern Wilson; Vera Elfors; Lenore Johnson; Wilma Swenson; Agenes Clark. Elba H. Brown, President, Grantsville Stake Relief Society, reports: ''Hostesses for the banquet honoring the retiring members of the stake Relief Society board who had given many long years of dedicated and loving service, were members of the new presidency and board members. Elba H. Brown is president; Evelyn Brown and Vessa Jacobs, counselors; and Lola Sutton, secretary-treasurer. A program was held and gifts presented to the honored guests." Potomac Stake (District of Columbia) Spring Arts Festival April 3, 1968 Left to right: Potomac Stake Relief Society officers: Mary Maycock, social relations class leader; Marilyn G. Kerr, President; Twylla Flanders, chorister; Leila W. Horne, First Counselor; Harriet Thorne, Secretary; Elaine Haroldsen, homemaking leader. Sister Kerr reports: ''A variety of talents was displayed at our spring arts festival. It was attended by Relief Society sisters and their husbands. On display were paintings in oil, water colors, and glass; sculptured items, handwork of all varieties, numbering about 500 items. "Earlier in the year, the cultural refinement and music leaders of the stake sponsored a music, poetry, and short story contest. The results of the contest were so gratifying that a booklet containing the poetry and short story entries was prepared and given to all in attendance. The musical entries and thirteen poems were presented as part of the program. The evening was concluded with a fashion show featuring creations by the sisters of the stake." West Boise Stake (Idaho) Features Magazine Displays at Leadership Meeting April 8, 1968 Magazine representatives of West Boise Stake, left to right: Erma Whittaker, Eighteenth Ward; Elva Labrum, Tenth Ward; Gwen McRae, Fourteenth Ward; Ora Moore, Fifth Ward; Velma H. McClellan, Seventh Ward; Ila Mae F. Dahl, stake Magazine representative; Zola Hill, Third Ward. Mary Zurcher, President, West Boise Stake Relief Society, reports: ''The Magazine Department of our stake board presented an excellent and complete program at our April leadership meeting. The skit, 'An Open Door to Home Living,' by Wylene Fotheringham, which was part of the program at Relief Society Annual General Conference, was presented. "An outstanding feature of the event was the refreshments which were prepared from recipes in The Relief Society Magazine. "A display of posters was attractively arranged for all to view after the program. We were most pleased by the presentations and the work that went into this program." 

770 October 1968

 Carbon Stake (Utah) Singing Mothers Present Concert, ''Charity Never Faileth"' March 7, 1968 From left: Ruth Dart, stake organist; Janis Siggard, chorister, who directed the stake Singing Mothers in their annual concert. Mary H. Worthen, President, Carbon Stake Relief Society, reports: ''About 130 Singing Mothers participated in our annual concert, 'Charity Never Faileth.' Each of the eight wards presented a special number, and the combined stake chorus presented several moving and inspirational numbers. "An original script for the program was written and narrated by Mary Helen Powell, stake cultural refinement class leader. The entire stake board worked toward making this event successful. "At the conclusion of the concert, refreshments were served to about 300 guests. On March 17, the stake chorus provided two selections at quarterly conference." Washington Stake (District of Columbia) Relief Society Singing Mothers Present "Evening in Spring," April 26, 1968 Marion P. Mangum, President, Washington Stake Relief Society, reports: ''We were thrilled with the wonderful response our Singing Mothers received when we presented a concert, with the theme 'Evening in Spring.' "LaJean Johnson, stake chorister, and Eleanor Price, stake organist, directed and~ accompanied the eighty-voice chorus, representing thirteen of the fourteen wards and branches in the stake. In addition to the Singing Mothers, the program consisted of a vocal soloist, a string trio, a quartet, and a dramatized excerpt from Thornton Wilder's 'Our Town.' This was under the direction of Marilyn Lindsay, stake cultural refinement leader, and portrayed the life of a woman through childhood, marriage, and motherhood, to gentle maturity." 1 ekg PRR AE Lg TF EL EL I OL, ES TE aa PERI a oO Canoga Park Stake (California) Visiting Teacher Convention Draws Large Crowd May 3, 1968 Table setting, in blue and gold, prepared for visiting teachers of Canoga Park Stake; entries in The Relief Society Magazine poster contest are displayed in the background. Maida Moody, President, Canoga Park Stake Relief Society, reports: ''A great deal of effort went into making our visiting teacher convention a success. Three hundred sisters were inspired by the program 'A Beacon Light and a Guiding Star,' based upon the article by Vesta P. Crawford in the September 1967 issue of The Relief Society Magazine. The program consisted of narration and the stake Singing Mother's chorus. It was adapted by Maida Moody. '"'A luncheon, followed by a fashion show and a festival of arts and crafts, concluded a most successful afternoon which was a delightful experience for all." 772 8 a Nii vil Wilford Stake (Utah) Holds Annual May Festival May 9, 1968 Standing, front row, left to right: Almina Slaydon; Berenice Morris; Florence Monson; Ruthal Allred; Karma Conn; Joan Nielsen. Standing back of the first row: Elaine Fredrickson; Beverly Moore. Elna H. Palmer, President, Wilford Stake Relief Society, reports: ''A delicious luncheon was served to 550 sisters in the morning, and refreshments were served in the evening to over 450 working mothers, husbands, and young people. "The program consisted of a skit, 'First Aid for Marriage.' It depicted four women with matrimonial problems coming to the clinic to get help. Two matrimony doctors, four nurses, and three candy stripers aided them. Their counsel was: (1) to believe in your husband; (2) put your husband first; (3) have Father as the head of the home; (4) share interests together as husband and wife to keep romance in marriage. "'The Singing Mothers presented several special numbers honoring mothers. An art exhibit and poem festival of original works were a highlight of the day. Demonstrations of several handicrafts were carried out." r= a ee ie as i _ PT Grant Stake (Utah) Closing Social, ''An Open Door to Home Living"' May 17, 1968 Former Grant Stake Relief Society officers, seated left to right: Ireta Stevens, Magazine representative; Sylvia Luck, chorister; Wilma Packer, organist; Claudine Despain, social relations class leader; Donna Cook, visiting teacher message leader; Pricilla Mather, spiritual living class leader; Virginia Bitner, homemaking leader; June Allen, Secretary-Treasurer; Lenore Driggs, First Counselor; Vera B. Kocherhans, President; Ruth C. Owen, Second Counselor. The remaining sisters are officers and teachers of the ten wards in Grant Stake. Sister Kocherhans reports: ''Our closing social was themed 'An Open Door to Home Living.' Specially honored were the stake and ward Magazine representatives. A lovely program was presented, emphasizing the Magazine. "Bazaar items and baked goods were sold, following the program, and a demonstration on flower making was given. 'President Castleton was present and reorganized the stake Relief Society. Margorie Nelson is the new president of Grant Stake Relief Society. I — = —- oo a Tulsa Stake (Oklahoma) Relief Society Presents ''Then Came the Women" for Closing Social, May 18, 1968 Members of the cast for ''Then Came the Women," front row, children, left to right: Audrey Huntsman; Steven Barnum; Ardith Huntsman. Second row, left to right: Vivien Romney, organist; Penelope Earl, narrator; Eve Deacon; Almeda Barnum; Norman Barnum; Sherry Roper; Rose Huntsman; Lois McLaughlin; Norma Dupree, President, Tulsa Ward Relief Society; Mary A. Robison, director. Virginia L. Jacobson, President, Tulsa Stake Relief Society, reports: ''Our closing social was very successful. It included an outstanding presentation of the pageant 'Then Came the Women.' It was a very impressive performance. "We honored Sister Mary A. Robison, who directed the program, for her outstanding service for thirty-five years as an executive in Relief Society on the ward, branch, and stake basis. She was presented with a corsage and bracelet. "A wonderful display of homemaking articles from the wards and branches was presented."' 774 am, ae ee PTI ee ath San Jose West Stake (California) Singing Mothers Present Concerts April 12, and April 26, 1968 Bernice Hutchinson, President, San Jose West Stake Relief Society, reports: ''The Singing Mothers of our stake, under direction of Marie O. Gaisford, stake chorister, and accompanied by Ruth Stevens, stake organist, presented two concerts in our stake. "The first concert was in the Santa Cruz College Auditorium to an audience consisting mostly of nonmembers. The second was in the San Jose Fourth and Ninth Ward chapel. In addition to the Singing Mothers, lovely solo numbers were performed by outstanding members of the chorus who are talented musically."' Andes Mission, Trujillo Branch (Peru) Holds Opening Social March 18, 1968 Left to right: Consuelo Agreda; Eva Desposorio; Maruja Bejarano; Gloria Gutierrez; Juana Castillo; Irma Isla; Juana Rodriguez; Isabel Pefarrieta, President, North District Relief Society; Bertha Di Natale; Bertha Condemarin; Raquel Cisneros; Olinda Malca, President, Trujillo Branch Relief Society; Teresa Alva; Emma Alva; Maria de Correa; Julia Pinillos; Sabina Ramirez; Maria Bejarano. Doris L. Jesperson, Supervisor, Andes Mission Relief Society, reports: ''The Trujillo Branch Relief Society held their opening social commemorating the anniversary of Relief Society. A short program of musical numbers, as well as a dramatization of the first meeting, was presented by the sisters. The Singing Mothers presented selections, and the first president of the Trujillo Branch Relief Society, Isabel Penarrieta was honored. More than 400 members and investigators were in attendance. "Under the direction of the President, Olinda Malca, the Retief Society is now preparing and selling marmalade to raise funds. A series of sewing classes have been initiated under the direction of Maria de Correa, with excellent participation. They are in the process of buying a sewing machine for further help to the sisters of the branch.' aeereseseeepeeueweenseeweeees ~_ «ah A CLASS LEADER'S GREE TING The days have come when, in response To crisp October's weather, Intent on intellectual gain Again we meet together. Back to our classes and our books, Upon whose fragile pages Is found the learning of the past, The wisdom of the ages. Give thanks for books, this boon to man; Give thanks for those who wrote them, And thus preserved their choicest thoughts That we might use and quote them. Give thanks for this rich heritage That we can read, and so, Adding such wisdom to our own, In happier ways may go. —Vilate R. McAllister 777 Lesson Department: Yi, The Doctrine and Covenants SPIRITUAL LIVING Lesson 92—Adversity Elder Roy W. Doxey (Reading Assignment: D&C 121:1-10; 122.)