[Vol55 | October 1968 | Page 754 | General Feature | The Home Inside and Out Anna Conquest Nimble Fingers Perform With the Needle | ]
[The Home Inside and Out Anna Conquest Nimble Fingers Perform With the Needle]

Every now and then, amid phases of the rest of the meal, I would eye the pudding critically and take a few conscience-stricken, energetic beating turns in an effort to minimize the lumps. Supper was ready on time. Either the other two did not notice the lumps or they appreciated supper on time so much that they chose not to criticize. 756 i A Recipe For Tomorrow As the weeks and months passed, corn-starch pudding became an increasingly popular menu item at our house. I suppose that "getting by with it once" made it easier to short-change the lump-smoothing time in favor of "more important" parts of meal preparation. It was some time later that the three of us were visiting a very dear elderly friend whom we affectionately knew as '""Grandma Gale." She loved to cook, and, as a special surprise for her favorite little boy, she made corn-starch pudding. He eagerly anticipated this final touch to a well-prepared meal, but, at the first spoonful, his eagerness changed abruptly to disappointment. Giving his dish a slight shove away from him, he inquired, '""What is wrong? It doesn't have any lumps in it!" Usually, he was a mild-mannered little fellow, but to him the difference was so wide that he could not accept it as related to the product with which he was familiar. In the stunned, embarrassed silence, my husband and I exchanged eloquent glances. That single bolt of experience drove deep into both of us the great lesson a good parent needs to know. With clarity, it pointed out to us how our carelessness in everyday living could deflect our son's judgment in the recognition of perfection. What he became used to at home was what he would most likely seek after and follow in his lifetime. If we continued to pursue such lumpy attitudes, among many others, such as, "We work so hard all week that I'm sure the Lord won't hold it against us if we sleep in on Sunday morning instead of going to Sunday School," our child would grow up with the same lumpy attitude. In fact, even the smallest action on our part might, in some degree, affect his actions for good or bad the rest of his life. Like all parents of all ages, we had a vital choice to make. "... Choose you this day whom ye will serve... As for me and my house, we will serve the Lord..." (Joshua 24:15) seemed to offer far greater security than the hit and miss ideas advanced by mere men. The outcome of these past twenty-odd years has been rewarding in direct proportion to the application and determination we have maintained in eliminating our own "lumps."