[Vol55 | October 1968 | Page 749 | Fiction | The Anniversary Kathleen | Peace Gregory]
— 7 ee, inet 22 a 748 Kathleen Peace Gregory Dewsbury, Yorkshire, England =» "Hey, Mum, when do we eat?" Jean awoke with a start, realizing instantly that she had overslept. Her eldest son stood grinning at her, his ginger hair untidy, his pajama jacket buttoned unevenly. The other two boys came running into her bedroom as Jean sat up, and the baby on the cot stretched like a sleepy kitten. "I must have been tired last night," she said. "Quick, get washed and dressed, and no monkey business," she added, as young Pete started bouncing on her bed. She dressed quickly and went into the bathroom as the three boys came out laughing. They are so happy, she thought, not a care in the world. As she entered the bathroom, a large, black, plastic Spider swung gently over the wash basin. She had to laugh. What a bunch of terrors she had. Even young James, only a few months old, was a bundle of mischief, always giggling and chuckling. When she _ got downstairs, she found John had taken charge of the kitchen, serving cereal and poaching eggs. He is a good lad, she thought. Another year, and he'll be a deacon. Martin, the second son, was busy feeding the goldfish and canary, while Pete set out cutlery and crockery. "Just in time, Mum," John greeted his mother as he brought a jug of milk from the refrigerator and set it in the center of the gaily checked cloth. "Pete, come out from under the table, and put that comic down. You haven't time to read this morning," Jean said, as she sat down. 

749 October 1968

 "I'm a dog today," replied Pete. "Well, you had better have your cereal on the floor then," Jean answered. With a bound that nearly upset the table, Pete came out and sat next to Jean. "Martin, will you ask the blessing this morning?" John asked. As they ate their breakfast, Jean looked at her family and thought how fortunate Steve and she were to have four lovely boys. John, the eldest, took his position as head of the family when Steve was away, and he seemed so grownup and serious one minute, and the next, he was playing tricks with the others. "Mum, it's swimming club today," he broke into her thoughts. "I have to swim fifteen lengths, and then I can represent our school in the Gala." "Good for you. Do you think you can do it?" Martin asked. "Well, I can try," John replied. "We can ask our Heavenly Father in our morning prayer, to help you," said Jean. "And to bless our Daddy while he's away from us," added Pete. "T do miss him. I like his stories about boats and cowboys and Indians, and Mum only knows girls' stories." "Pete, Mum does her best, after all she is a girl and girls don't understand about boats and battles like men," John said reprovingly, "and she knows some super stories like that one about David and Goliath and _ that fellow getting eaten by a whale." Jean had to laugh. "Okay, boys, let's have prayers. Then 750 it's time for school. You'll just make it if you hurry." The house was quiet after they had all gone, save for the rattling of the cot upstairs, announcing that young James was ready for his breakfast. She quickly stacked the dishes in the sink and hurried upstairs. James gave her a big toothless grin as she approached his cot. "Come on, my pet." She picked him up and took him downstairs. It certainly was fun having a baby in the house again. Pete, then the youngest, was six when James had been born and now the boys were a real help in the home. After the baby was settled for his morning sleep, she hurried about her chores. The boys liked apple pie, she would make one for tea, and chicken curry, also a family favorite. Today was her fourteenth wedding anniversary. What a shame Steve wouldn't be home to take her out to dinner or a theater, as he usually did. He always had a special anniversary treat for her every year. This would be the first year they had not quietly celebrated. Even when the boys were babies, he had found a baby sitter, usually his sister Pat, for this special evening. Pat, who worked in a hairdressing salon, had called round last night and offered to shampoo and set her hair, so Jean had spent a happy hour being fussed over. She had watched Pat's deft fingers tease her hair into shape, and now it shone like a golden cap. She smiled as she recalled her fifth anniversary, which fell two weeks from the expected date of her second baby. They had gone to dinner and to see a musical in the city and she had felt rather uncomfortable, but thought it was indigestion. By the time they reached home, she realized that their family would be increased that night. Her mother, rather Victorian in her views, had been scandalized when the baby was born at midnight. It just wasn't the thing to do, to be out so near to having a baby. Jean chuckled as she remembered the lecture she had received from her mother. At four-thirty, the boys came tumbling in, laughing and pushing as usual. "Mum, I'm in the Gala. I've swum fifteen lengths without stopping. So I'm the greatest." John was bubbling over with excitement. "Huh, listen to him, he's like that boxer chap on the T. V." Martin laughed. "T can swim, nearly," said Pete, not to be outdone. "Yes, with one foot on the bottom. You couldn't swim aThe Anniversary cross a dish of soup," John teased. "I'd be too big and, anyway, I'd rather drink it," retorted Pete, and they all giggled again. "Come along, boys, chicken curry and apple pie for tea." Jean sorted them out and helped to hang coats up. "Wash your hands before you sit down," she added, as they went into the kitchen. After tea, as the three boys helped Jean clear the table and dry the dishes, she asked them about their day at school. She suddenly realized that they were rather edgy and kept grinning at each other. "Okay, what's cooking? What are you up to this time?" Jean inquired, eyeing them suspiciously. "Salt in the sugar? Plastic beetles in the bath?" John and Martin reddened and started to laugh, while Pete jumped up and down like a ball. "I didn't tell, did I?" he shouted. "I didn't tell about the sup..." John and Martin pounced on Pete together, and the three of them went down in a spluttering October 1968 Jean surveyed the struggling mass of arms and legs and burst out laughing. "Now come clean, just what is going on?" Just at that moment the front door bell rang and, still laughing, she went to answer it. She opened the door to find Pat standing there. "Why, Pat dear, what a surprise, do come in. What are you doing here tonight? You are neglecting your poor husband, leaving him alone two nights together." "Oh, I thought I'd come round for a chat," Pat answered. "Are the boys at home?" "Yes, and they're up to monkey business I'm sure. They've just gagged Pete for nearly telling me something." She led the way into the kitchen, where the two elder boys were still sitting on a protesting, red-faced Pete. "By the way, I have a letter for you." Pat opened her handbag and gave Jean the letter. "Why, this is Steve's writing," Jean said. She opened the envelope and read the letter through, the color coming to her face. My Dearest Jean: Happy Anniversary. If everything works out right, you should receive this letter about 6:30. I shall be on my way home from London, to take you to dinner and a theater. I shall have a spray of white gardenias for you and will call for you around 7:30. You look so pretty in your blue dress, will you wear it for me? Will my dear wife be ready to go out with her husband of fourteen years? My love as always, Steve "Pat, now how did you get this letter?" Jean asked her sister-in-law. Pat smiled. "It was all ar- 752 ranged last week. I was to set your hair last night and come round and baby sit tonight unless Steve phoned to say he couldn't make it. He left money for the boys and instructed them to take your blue dress to the cleaners. They were all in on the secret." Jean looked at her sons with tears in her eyes. The boys were looking pleased with themselves. "So that is why poor Pete was squashed." She smiled through her tears. "He couldn't hold it another second, Mum," John answered. "We had to gag him. You had to have Dad's letter first. Now off you go and get ready. We don't want you to be late. Pete and Martin can finish the dishes, and I'll clean your shoes for you." As she hurried upstairs, she heard Pat helping the boys and thought how fortunate she was to have Pat for a sister-in-law. "Aunt Pat, did Dad phone you?" John asked. "Yes, this afternoon at work. He said it was all right to deliver the letter as he would be able to get home." She smiled at the boys. "Was it very difficult to keep the secret?" "Oh, yes," said Pete, "I kept forgetting and nearly telling. Hey, look at our Mum, doesn't she look nice?" The others turned and saw Jean crossing the hall. Her face was flushed with excitement and her eyes shining. "Jean, you look lovely, come sit here. James is in bed, and I'm just going to tub Pete." Pat turned to the boys. "Come on, let's have these soldiers put away. It's like a battlefield in here," as you can plainly see." Jean sat down at the edge of the chair and watched Pat hustle the boys around. "I feel all excited, like a teenager on her first date," she said. "And I feel rather guilty seeing you doing my work." "You're very welcome, my dear," Pat answered. "It's your special day, and you and Steve The Anniversary don't get out very often together. Listen there's the car. Off you go and enjoy yourselves." Jean's eyes were misty again as she kissed her sons and her sister-in-law. "Thank you, boys. Thank you, Pat," she whispered as she hugged her. Then, turning, she crossed the hall, opened the door, and went out, closing it quickly behind her. THE GOLDEN CIRCLET Your Golden Wedding day. Was filled with joy; Scored to the lute song of love That themes your life as one! Together, you began the song, young hearts ablaze With wonderment and awe. You pledged your troth Each seeing beyond that moment. Past passions's fire, To the soaring heights where only They who truly love aspire. Then, as the years lay one on one, you found heart room To hold the bounties reaped in love, The heartbreak shared. You thought your love complete, that short Half-century ago, And still it grew. Tested by grief, strengthened by faith and tempered by time, The golden circlet Of seasons past draws tight. But, still you smile, wearing the golden mantle with delight; Sweet love yet shared And eager hearts attuned, forever young! —Betty G. Spencer 753 NIMBLE FINGERS PERFORM WITH THE NEEDLE Anna Conquest, Tacoma Stake, Washington, has had one great wish throughout her life—to be able to use the needle to bring beauty and happiness into the lives of others. Sister Conquest donates at least one pair of pillowcases each month to Relief Society, and her beautiful work is unsurpassed in the stake. The cases are done in a Satin stitch with silk thread and are beautiful in color and workmanship. She also crochets and embroiders beautiful tablecloths for friends, family, and Relief Society. She is indeed endowed with a talent for beautiful needlework. Sister Conquest was born in Norway eighty-six years ago. She joined the Church at the age of eleven and migrated to America. Sister Conquest has done much to aid the building up of the Church in the Tacoma area, and her kindness to missionaries stretches back many years. In addition to her other Church activities, she has served as a counselor in Relief Society and has been a diligent visiting teacher for more than eighteen yea
