[Vol55 | October 1968 | Page 756 | General Feature | A Recipe for Tomorrow Helen | Cazier Norton]
for Tomorrow Helen Cazier Norton iW 2) @ "He's been such a good boy all afternoon, I'Il show my appreciation by preparing his favorite dessert for supper," I told myself as I glanced out the window to where our most beloved possession played contentedly in the dirt pile. The toy tractor his daddy had made from the cab of an otherwise car-crushed fire engine, part of a roller skate, and a piece of two-by-four, was, as usual, the companion for our dark-eyed, three-year-old's lonely only-child playtime on the farm. Most of the time, his expensive toys were cast aside in its favor. Lately, he and his daddy had fashioned a disk out of jar caps, tiny spools sawed into small sections, and heavy wire. With this, he had been able to broaden his "farming" operation into "tilling" the fields of his favorite play area. Checking the clock, I was assured of plenty of time for my meal preparation. A corn-starch pudding I had made a few weeks ago had interested him greatly. Into the bowl, I measured three tablespoons of flour and three tablespoons of cornstarch. A trill of the telephone required attention. After promising the Primary president that I would pick up the Thompson children for meeting the next day, and, of course, exchanging a little casual conversation, I turned back to my simple pudding. Oh, yes, a sprinkle of salt and one-half cup of sugar. Into the top of the steaming hot double-boiler, I put two and one-half cups milk. This time, a knock at the front door sent me scurrying in that direction, first turning the burner under the milk to low. Wouldn't you know it would be only a salesman selling something for which we already had a satisfactory substitute? Nevertheless, I took time to cushion my refusal with courtesy. After all, he was only out to make a living, the same as everyone else. The ringing of the phone conveniently brought that matter to a close. It was a neighbor down the ditch inquiring as to what time my husband expected to be through with the irrigation water. These interruptions consumed a sizeable chunk out of my timing, so I hurriedly added one-half cup of cold milk to the dry ingredients and gave them a quick stir before mixing with the hot milk. Later, I blended in a beaten egg and, finally, onehalf teaspoon of lemon and vanilla mixed. Every now and then, amid phases of the rest of the meal, I would eye the pudding critically and take a few conscience-stricken, energetic beating turns in an effort to minimize the lumps. Supper was ready on time. Either the other two did not notice the lumps or they appreciated supper on time so much that they chose not to criticize. 756 i A Recipe For Tomorrow As the weeks and months passed, corn-starch pudding became an increasingly popular menu item at our house. I suppose that "getting by with it once" made it easier to short-change the lump-smoothing time in favor of "more important" parts of meal preparation. It was some time later that the three of us were visiting a very dear elderly friend whom we affectionately knew as '""Grandma Gale." She loved to cook, and, as a special surprise for her favorite little boy, she made corn-starch pudding. He eagerly anticipated this final touch to a well-prepared meal, but, at the first spoonful, his eagerness changed abruptly to disappointment. Giving his dish a slight shove away from him, he inquired, '""What is wrong? It doesn't have any lumps in it!" Usually, he was a mild-mannered little fellow, but to him the difference was so wide that he could not accept it as related to the product with which he was familiar. In the stunned, embarrassed silence, my husband and I exchanged eloquent glances. That single bolt of experience drove deep into both of us the great lesson a good parent needs to know. With clarity, it pointed out to us how our carelessness in everyday living could deflect our son's judgment in the recognition of perfection. What he became used to at home was what he would most likely seek after and follow in his lifetime. If we continued to pursue such lumpy attitudes, among many others, such as, "We work so hard all week that I'm sure the Lord won't hold it against us if we sleep in on Sunday morning instead of going to Sunday School," our child would grow up with the same lumpy attitude. In fact, even the smallest action on our part might, in some degree, affect his actions for good or bad the rest of his life. Like all parents of all ages, we had a vital choice to make. "... Choose you this day whom ye will serve... As for me and my house, we will serve the Lord..." (Joshua 24:15) seemed to offer far greater security than the hit and miss ideas advanced by mere men. The outcome of these past twenty-odd years has been rewarding in direct proportion to the application and determination we have maintained in eliminating our own "lumps."