[Vol55 | October 1968 | Page 761 | Fiction | Mabel Harmer | Mabel Harmer]
—Alice Brady Myers 760 Chapter 7 Maureen Taggert, a librarian, has gone Mabel Harmer to Great Britain to do_ genealogical work and investigate some _ property in Scotland to which she is joint heir. Before leaving she meets Steve Madsen and is very much attracted to him. On the boat she befriends Diane Curran who is going to England to be married. While in England she meets Robert McPherson, an artist, who is residing on the property in Scotland. « Two days after her trip to Shannon, Maureen received a letter from Steve Madsen expressing his deep disappointment that they had not been able to meet. He wrote that he had checked on the weather and planes and found that none was leaving the London airport until it was time for him to board his plane for Brussels. Since he had a definite appointment there it had not been possible for him to stay over. He hoped for better luck next time. What next time? Maureen wondered. It was not likely that he would be coming to Europe again in the short time that she would presumably be there. At least, that was what she would suppose. In the meantime, there was the trip to Scotland to plan and anticipate. Easter came early in the month—the first Sunday in April—and, since they were going to travel by motor car, they were fervently hoping for good weather. "Which we must not count upon in the least," said Kitty. "I am told that it rains most of the time in Scotland." "Surely not more than here in England!" exclaimed Diane. "Oh, yes! Much more. Especially in the Highlands. But that makes it all the more beautiful. There are lakes and water- 

761 October 1968

 falls by the hundreds, and forests and flowers of all kinds." "All of which you can vouch for," said Julia. "In spite of the fact that you have seen none of it." "Certainly, I have been reading up on the land of my ancestral estate. And so would you, if you had any proper pride." "T can wait," said Julia calmly.. "And I only hope that it is all you say." Only Maureen and the Bruce Taggart family were going. Diane had to stay with her work, since she was handling all of the correspondence now for Mrs. Markham, and Mrs. Murch would never leave home for more than a few hours under any circumstances. "What will we do with her in case we decide to make our permanent home at the castle?" asked Julia. "We'll tackle that problem when we come to it," replied her mother. "Just remember that we are a long way as yet from making any decisive move." "They began the trip, which was scheduled to take one week, on the Monday morning after Easter. They crossed the border from Carlisle, and just after driving over the Gretna Green bridge, were delighted to see an over-sized sign which bade them "Welcome to Scotland." "Isn't that charming of them?" remarked Kitty. "I'm sure the Sign was put up expressly for our benefit." "And also this next one," added her father, as he drew into the service station which proclaimed itself, "The first petrol station in Scotland." 762 As they drove on, they saw little single-story, whitewashed cottages, each with a porch in front. At one they saw the children doffing wraps and muddy boots before entering the house. "That's what I call a great system," remarked Catherine, "an open-air mud room before one ever enters the house." "It just goes to show how nice and neat and clean they are," remarked Kitty, always alert to putting in a good word for her adoptive countrymen. As they drove on, they found a world of entrancing beauty. The wooded hills were green with the lush grass nourished by a plentiful rainfall. About an hour's drive from the border, they ran into a little town holding market day. The main street was crowded with booths, shoppers, and villagers. Bruce was having a_ difficult enough time to drive through the street and found it complicated still further when he encountered a flock of wandering sheep. To be sure, they were not alone. At the rear was the shepherd, and at his heels a pair of collie dogs. All three appeared to be more or less indifferent to the crowds, the traffic, and all else. The sheep, they seemed to think, would get through eventually, and_ the traffic would manage as_ best it could. Suddenly, however, the shepherd blew his whistle, and the dogs sprang into action, darting here and there and sending the sheep past the moving cars. They spent the night at a charming town hotel. There seemed to be a dearth of the small inns they were used to seeing in the English countryside, but the hotel supplied their needs very well indeed. "Our next stop will be Kirkwood," said Bruce, as they started out again. "And our castle!" added Kitty, ecstatically, clapping her hands. "IT wish that you weren't expecting so much," said her father. "I'm afraid you're going to be very much disappointed. After all, you know, it is described as a ruin, and no one has lived there for a couple of decades." "Oh, but you forget that I have seen Robert McPherson's paintings. No matter how much he idealized it, the castle can't be too far different. And he did put in the broken-down wall, you know." Bruce nodded. "Yes, I know. Anyway, we shall soon see the worst—or the best." The village of Kirkwood was at the end of a long glen. It was marked with birches, yews, an occasional great beechtree. The road to the castle was uphill and rough, showing that it was seldom used. "Do you think that your traveling youth will tackle this road?" Bruce asked Kitty in a mockserious voice. "Certainly," she replied. "They climb hills and mountains and everything. This will be mere child's play to them—most of them, anyway." A sharp turn in the road brought them their first view of the castle. It looked rather imposing. "T like that," said Catherine. "But I am sure that it is putting If Spring Be Late its best side forward for the benefit of the traveler." All were excited by the prospect, the more so, the nearer they came and could see more of the details. For Maureen—rather to her own surprise, her greatest interest was in the cottage at the entrance to the grounds. As they came near and stopped, just inside the gate, she said, "Except for the profusion of spring flowers, it looks exactly as it does in the painting." "With the addition of the bairns standing in the doorway," said Julia. The children, a boy and a girl, quite obviously twins, came forward shyly to greet them. "You are Jeanie and Jamie, of course,' said Catherine, giving a hand to each. "Is your father about?" "That he is, Ma'am," answered Jamie. While Jeanie added, 'He is out digging potatoes and carrots out of the pit for our dinner." At that moment, Robert McPherson came around the corner 

763 October 1968

 of the cottage with a bucket of vegetables in one hand and a small shovel in the other. Dropping both, he hurried to greet them. "I didn't expect you until later in the day," he said, "when I would have been dressed properly to receive the laird of the castle." "Nonsense," said Bruce. "I am not likely to become accustomed to any such ceremony. But we have made good time traveling—and enjoyed every mile of it." "Do you think that we might walk up and get a closer view of the castle?" asked Kitty eagerly. "Yes—if you have a pair of good stout shoes. You'll find the path rather on the rough side." "Oh, I do!" she answered. "Then you might take Jamie and Jeanie for guides, and any other hardy souls who can't wait until the morrow." Julia and Bruce were the only other volunteers. Maureen and Catherine contented themselves with the view from the cottage. What they saw from that distance was intriguing—to Maureen at least. The building of gray stone was not large—as castles go. Nor were there the conical towers and high gables that she had seen pictured in other ancient buildings. The windows were angular and small when compared to modern buildings. The walls rose at three different heights. They were partly covered with ivy and the over-all effect was rather pleasant. She had to remind herself that she still hadn't seen the other side, where an outer wall lay in ruins. She and Catherine offered to help Robert prepare the meal, but 764 he insisted that no woman could find her way around in his kitchen. Maureen was interested to see that the inside of the cottage was as charming as the outside. One could hardly believe that it had lacked a woman's touch for three years. The deep recessed windows, with their small panes, were hung with crisp white curtains. There were pots of scarlet geraniums on each window sill. The furniture was chintz-covered, and the cupboards held some interesting pewter pieces. When she commented on these, Robert said, "Much to my regret I have to confess that they are yours. They came, as did all the furnishings, with the cottage." Maureen was thoughtful. If the cottage held such treasures, what might there not be at the castle itself? She would soon know. On the morrow they would 'all go exploring. Bruce and the young people returned from the castle with mixed feelings. "It would take a fortune to restore it in any livable shape," he said. "What we have is a mere pittance." "T still think it's wonderful," said Kitty loyally. "And there is a roof and plenty of sleeping space. With a place for light cooking, there would be everything we need for a youth hostel." "Kitty has this obsession about putting up a youth hostel," her father explained to Robert. "Do you know anything about them in this part of the country? We did pass a number of young people—and some not so young— walking along the highway." "Yes, indeed, there are a number of hostels now, and more are being built right along. The children and I stopped at one last summer just north of the Cairn Edward forest. Water was available, together with lavatories and a shelter. There were some simple cooking facilities. Not all travelers are on foot, you know. Some come in cars. However, the greater number of those who stop at the hostels come on foot, sometimes with half of their food, all of their utensils, and even their shelter on their backs. "Now, you see!" cried Kitty. "We can provide everything they need, and they can have the romance of staying in a castle besides." "Yes, I see," answered Bruce. "We shall certainly think it over very seriously. We do have funds enough to put in drinking water and the lavatories, at least. The roof is already there. Part of it, anyway." With that Kitty was satisfied. In her imagination she was already living in the castle and bidding a warm welcome to footweary travelers. The little girl, Jeanie, had snuggled up to Maureen, and after dinner she asked, shyly, "Are you coming to live with us in the cottage?" Everyone smiled and Maureen blushed slightly. A quick glance at Robert McPherson showed that he, also, was somewhat disconcerted by the question. "Not very likely," Maureen replied. "I'm sure that you belong here ever so much more than I do." "Oh, I meant to stay, also," the child continued., If Spring Be Late It was still a question, which Catherine solved by saying, "I think that we should be getting down to the village. I doubt if we should care to travel this road after dark, until we become more used to its vagaries." When they returned the next morning, the McPhersons were all in readiness to escort them to the castle. Robert held up a great ring of keys. "I rather suppose that some of these haven't been used for many a long year. I do hope that the locks work." "Otherwise," observed Julia, "we shall be forced to break into our own property." The path from the cottage to the castle was so overgrown with grass and weeds that they were forced to walk almost in single file. "How I wish that the heather were in bloom," said Maureen, with a slight sigh. "You need only wait until August and September," said Robert, "and you can see it at its best. The purple hills are a sight to behold and well worth waiting for, I can assure you. They are an artist's Elysium." "That I can well believe," Maureen agreed. As they reached the castle, and she now saw, for the first time, the extent of the "ruins," she was somewhat appalled. The entire roof was gone from most of the left wing, as well as the outer wall. It most certainly could not be repaired—not by its present owners, at any rate. The work of clearing away the fallen stones would, in itself, be a herculean task. Robert, who had been walking 

765 October 1968

 just ahead of her to help choose a path, was somewhat amused at her evident dismay. "Come, come," he said cheerily, "look at the rest of it. You still have a number of walls standing. Walls that may stand for a couple of centuries, in fact." She smiled and said, "You are quite right. I shall turn my back on the ruins and turn my attention to the good." No attempt was made to open the great outer door, but asmaller one at the side yielded quite readily to one of the keys. They stepped into a long hall which was damp, dark, and cold. Even Kitty's exuberance diminished visibly. "Cheer up,' said Robert. "There is much better ahead." He led them to aside room, still holding its furniture, which was all covered with sheets. These in turn, were covered withdust. Catherine lifted one gingerly and found a tapestry-covered divan beneath. "This isn't at all bad," she said, "considering...." "Considering that it may be a hundred years old," finished Bruce. They walked through half a dozen other rooms, all large, cold, and dusty. "Be it ever so humble," quoted Julia, as they stood in the middle of what had been the master's study. Bruce began looking at one or two of the volumes on the shelves. "You know, these could be very valuable," he said. "At least, a good many of them may well be. I suspect that there are even some first editions here." "You are quite right," Robert agreed. "No doubt they have been collected over a great many years. And here is something else that may interest you," he added, going over to a small cabinet. "There is a collection of glass paper weights that could be of considerable worth." Maureen hurried over to have a closer look. "Oh, I'm sure these are of real value," she said. "I've had books on them in the library and many are very rare. I wonder that they have been left undisturbed here for so long." "Because," answered Robert, "no one could get in here without these keys. Not very easily, anyway. Castles were not built to be entered at will, you know, even with some of the walls fallen down." "That I can well believe," she agreed. "I shouldn't care to try scaling any of these walls, even if I were twenty years younger." Bruce, who had been studying more of the books, turned to Maureen and said, "You know, we might strike something of a bargain. I'll take the books, and you take the paper weights, if you I are sure that they are of real value. Agreed?" "With pleasure," she answered. "I am really fascinated by these. And, I assure you, there is no question about their value. I might easily have the best of the bargain." "And I can say the same to you." He paused and held up a huge Bible. "Here is one, however, that I shall turn over to you. It seems to have a list of Taggarts long since passed away. There are hundreds of names and dates here to thrill your searching soul, I am sure." Maureen reached eagerly for the book. A quick survey proved that here was treasure indeed. There were family names and dates reaching back for three hundred years. "Oh, Bruce!" she exclaimed, "this is unbelievable. There are more names here than I have found in all my winter's work in London." "Good. Then we are both happy. I have found here a first edition of Sir Walter Scott's Lady of the Lake. But I shall never bear to part with it—even to put in running water for Kitty's youth hostel." "You shan't need to sell that or any other book," she said. "You know perfectly well that we have enough from Mrs. Murch's board bill to take care of trifling matters like that." "We hope. We have no idea, as yet, just how trifling or how large such a matter could be." "But you did say it would be my youth hostel, didn't you!" cried Kitty, realizing that for the first time her father had practically committed himself to her proposition. "Did I?" he asked nonchalf Spring Be Late lantly. '"Well—perhaps." "And while we're on that subject," Catherine said, "I think that we should have a look at the kitchen. If there is a kitchen?" She turned to Robert. "A kitchen? Oh, yes, indeed. Such a kitchen as you have probably never before set eyes upon in all your sheltered life.' He led them through another long passage. "But first,' he said, "I must show you the dining room, since it is right on the way." They entered a large room where there was a huge fireplace at one end. A long table nearly filled the center of the room. A few derelict chairs and _ stools were scattered about.. The floor was bare. "Wonderful!" cried Kitty, clapping her hands. "There is room enough for all of our travelers to eat at the same time— or at various times." "What I really wanted to show you is something else. Come this way." He led them out of the dining room, through a tiny passage, and into a small room. There was one curtained window, or opening, into the dining room. "You never in the wide world could guess what this is," he said, "so Ill tell you. It was called the Jug room. Here the master of the castle could hide himself to listen to the conversation of any doubtful guest who might have gained entrance to the household." "Well, that is one room for which we shall certainly have no use," said Julia. "One never knows," said Kitty. "In time we may conduct tours, and the dug room would certainly be an attraction." 

767 October 1968

 They went next to the kitchen which, as Robert had warned them, was like nothing they had seen or imagined. Above a huge fireplace hung pots and pans blackened by use and by age. The floor was bare of covering and many of the boards had rotted. Even Kitty was stunned. After allowing her to gaze in dismay for afew moments, Robert said, "However, there is a smaller room—buttery, pantry, or whatever they called it—just beyond. Perhaps a cooking stove out there would serve." Kitty ran out. "It is perfect!" she cried, clapping her hands. "Of course, it isn't really, but it will be when we get through with it." "Well," said Julia, "Maureen 768 has her treasure, Father and Kitty have theirs. Now, what is there for Mummie and me?" "You'll share all that I have," said her father. "That should do for the present." "As for me," said Catherine, "IT am more than satisfied. All I can think of at present is getting back to my own warm, clean, comfortable home." _ "Splendid!" cried Bruce. "Since you prefer it to the castle, we'll I go back—for the time being, most certainly." "And most equally certain," said Kitty, "we shall return." She looked about, but there was no denial. There were only indulgent smiles. (To be concluded) RECOMPENSE ''Pay me" required earth of the proud trees Swaying on the autumn hill, "Gold I require for tomorrow's destiny." And an aspen traced her blessings on the ground With golden coins, Shivering in the rising wind, but remembering summer. "My life's blood,'' bowed the maple, Giving of his crimson to mingle With the pale fern at his feet, Recalling September's glory on the hill. '"'My cloak,'"' and the oak cast His brown cloak on the shivering grass, And his sturdy seeds, cupped in beauty, Remembering green, Recurrent on the oblique Ascendency of spring. —Dorothy J. Roberts All material submitted for — in this department should be sent through the stake Relief Society presidents, or mission Relief Society supervisors. One annual submission will be accepted, as space permits, from each stake and mission of the Church. All submissions must be received within two months of the event described. Submissions should be addressed to the Editorial Department, Relief Society Magazine, Salt Lake City, Utah 84111. For details regarding pictures and descriptive material, see The Relief Society Magazine for January 1966, page 50.. Pictures are not used in this department. Relief Society Activities San Diego. East Stake (California) Visiting Teacher Corventitisn May 3, 1968 Second row, at left: Muriel Price, President, La Mesa Ward Relief Society. Back row, left to right: President Joseph C. Price, Counselor in the stake presidency; Sister Price. Beginning third from right: Dorothy Bourne, Homemaking Counselor, San Diego East Stake Relief Society; Rhea Gale, President; Louise Toolson, Eudcation Counselor. Sister Gale reports: ''A luncheon was served by the stake board to begin the convention. The play, 'A Call to Benevolence,' by Luacine C. Fox, was presented, with participation by the stake Singing Mother's Chorus, directed by Gayle Moreau, stake chorister. "Special recognition was given to the La Mesa Ward which had seventy per cent of their visiting teachers in attendance. These sisters are pictured. Throughout the year, this ward has led in attendance at visiting teacher meetings. There were 176 sisters in attendance." SL RAO RR SF FE NO re NI ET «kT RRL, gm 

769 October 1968

 Grantsville Stake (Utah) Honors Retiring Relief Society Officers April 24, 1968 Retiring members of the Grantsville Stake Relief Society board, seated, left to right: Mary Imlay; Melba Wells; Lovina Lawrence; Hannah Fraser. Standing, left to right: Nell Shirts; Florence Hayes; Lucille Anderson; Fern Wilson; Vera Elfors; Lenore Johnson; Wilma Swenson; Agenes Clark. Elba H. Brown, President, Grantsville Stake Relief Society, reports: ''Hostesses for the banquet honoring the retiring members of the stake Relief Society board who had given many long years of dedicated and loving service, were members of the new presidency and board members. Elba H. Brown is president; Evelyn Brown and Vessa Jacobs, counselors; and Lola Sutton, secretary-treasurer. A program was held and gifts presented to the honored guests." Potomac Stake (District of Columbia) Spring Arts Festival April 3, 1968 Left to right: Potomac Stake Relief Society officers: Mary Maycock, social relations class leader; Marilyn G. Kerr, President; Twylla Flanders, chorister; Leila W. Horne, First Counselor; Harriet Thorne, Secretary; Elaine Haroldsen, homemaking leader. Sister Kerr reports: ''A variety of talents was displayed at our spring arts festival. It was attended by Relief Socie