[Vol55 | October 1968 | Page 784 | Lesson | Visiting Teacher Message We Are to Be Compassionate Toward the Afflicted Alice | Colton Smith]
VISITING TEACHER MESSAGE — Truths to Live By (Correlated With the Family Home Evening Manual, 1968-69) Message 4—We Are to Be Compassionate Toward the Afflicted Alice Colton Smith Northern Hemisphere: First Meeting, January 1969 Southern Hemisphere: June 1969 OBJECTIVE: To help us remember that compassion blesses the giver and the receiver. She was such a darling baby. Everyone loved her. All rejoiced when she took her first steps. When she grew old enough to run in the sun, with the wind ruffling her golden hair into a halo, she was a thing of beauty. She was nearly old enough for school when one became aware of an occasional stumble or odd break in the rhythm of her walk. Gradually, heartbreakingly, her condition worsened. The doctors grew silent. They knew of no cure for her crippling disease. As she lags farther and farther behind her playmates and they outrun her, she begins to be avoided. They do not choose her until the last, when games are played. When parties are given, she is often not included. Soon will come the dating years. "Lord, bless the sick and afflicted." How often do we pray thus and teach our children to do likewise? What do we and they mean? Who are the afflicted and how is the Lord to bless them? Is he to do it all and we to turn away, or do we, with him, have a part in solving these ills of mankind? How are we to help? 784 Do we contribute money only and smugly feel justified? If we could walk a year in the shoes of the afflicted, how would our lives change? How can we help ourselves and our children do this in imagination, so that all of us will be sensitive and kind? How can we set an effective Christian example to our children? How can we teach them, early, continuously, to accept the afflicted into the circle of their lives, where they will be a part of the normal wholeness of life? How can we help them to look beyond the afflictions to the soul of their friend, to the courage, patience, charm, and abilities that lie deep within? How will they learn that the afflicted, in their needs and inner feelings do not differ from others? Adolescence and the dating years are difficult enough. Will our children be especially kind, thoughtful, considerate, loving of the afflicted, and bring them: into full fellowship with them? The afflicted are the hurt ones, often unhappy, sad, _ irritable, angry, hopeless, sullen, bitter, despondent, rejected, and demanding. If we have empathy we will find specific ways to help. Are they hurt? Then, we are the comforters. Are they irritable and demanding? We help them find peace. Are they angry? We search with them for understanding. Are they unhappy and sullen? We teach them to be glad. Are they bitter? We bring Lesson Department healing love. Are they despondent, despairing, and _ hopeless? We lead the way to faith. My son, peace be unto thy soul; thine adversity and thine afflictions shall be but a small moment; And then, if thou endure it well, God shall exalt thee on high; thou shalt triumph over all thy foes. Thy friends do stand by thee. (D&C 121:7-9.) (Italics added.)