[Vol26 | May 1939 | Sequence: 33 | Category: Article | Title: Article by Cora L. Bennion]

By Cora L. Bennion THE Savior said, "I am come that they might have life and that they might have it more abundantly." The abundant life is realized through the practical application of ? the principles which Jesus taught as implied in another of his notable sayings, "Ye shall know the truth and the truth shall make you free." And again this knowledge is gained through obedience as indicated in another passage in the Gospel according to John, when Jesus answered the doubting multitude as he taught in the temple, "My doctrine is not mine, but his that sent me. If any man will do his will, he shall know of the doctrine, whether it be of God, or whether I speak of myself." The practical values of the Gospel are especially emphasized in the Epistle of James. He wrote: "What doth it profit my brethren though a man say he hath faith and have not works? Can faith save him? If a brother or sister be naked, and destitute of daily food, and one of you say to them, depart in peace, be ye warmed and filled; notwithstanding ye give them not those things which are needful to the body; what doth it profit?
Even so faith, if it hath not works, is dead, being alone. The same author tells us that, "Pure religion and undefiled before God and the Father is this, To visit the fatherless and widows in their affliction, and to keep himself unspotted from the world."
This view of religion applies very directly to the purposes of the Relief Society.
Women of this Organization have given generously of their time and strength both in pioneer days and also in recent times, in caring for the needs of the people, but what does it mean to keep oneself unspotted from the world? P Evidently it means to live in accordance with the moral teachings of the Gospel and to keep free from the sins of the world. This, however, is no real sacrifice since it is the only road to the enduring satisfactions of life, and to that joy which it was designed by the Creator that men and women should have. While Relief Society women have important community responsibili- ties, these should not detract from their home duties.
This is especially true of mothers whose sons and daughters are still immature.
Mothers and fathers are responsible for teaching the Gospel, both by precept and by example, to their children. * This calls for closely-knit family ties and intimate association of members of the family in their home life. The father's business often takes him away from home much of the time, leaving the mother to carry the major responsibility in the care and religious education of the family. It is not designed that Relief Society women shall neglect this duty.
This does not mean that mothers should be RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, MAY - 335 confined, like prisoners, to the home.
They will be more competent for their home responsibilities if they keep in touch with the community life and know something of the social life and outside interests of their children. By these means and by wise use of leisure time for study, mothers may keep abreast of the times and continue to live in the same world as their children.
This will help them to "be strong and of good courage" and to avoid the pitfalls of unwarranted fears and worties. The Gospel of Christ will help us to develop those soul satisfying aspects of living, and will help to eliminate the negative factors that destroy the joys of life. ? BUILDERS OF TESTIMONY