[Vol26 | May 1939 | Sequence: 28 | Category: Article | Title: Article by Anna S. Barlow]

By Anna S. Barlow
IT is the ambition of every Latter-day Saint woman to make her home a place where family members live together in love and harmony; a place in which they take pride; a place where their minds, souls and bodies are daily recreated for greater accomplishment. Modern life gives us an opportunity to make our homes fulfill their highest purpose?that of producing happy citizens, physically, mentally, spiritually healthy and sensitive to their social responsibilities. In assuming their tasks as homemakers mothers are more and more realizing that knowledge, training, preparation, and constant effort are essential to success. The Work and Business Department is immediately concerned with providing knowledge and training in the practical phases of homemaking. It will always be the function of the Relief Society to sew for the needy on Work and Business day, but because of urgent needs and insistent demands other programs have been inaugurated. At the present time throughout the United States people are becoming more and more conscious of the importance of proper food supplies, food habits, and regulated appetites. People are becoming more and more concerned with malnutrition of infants and children. Dorothy Thompson, famous news commentator, in a recent magazine article entitled Children Starve in This Land of Plenty said that from one-eighth to one-fifth of all children in the United States are undernourished. The course of study suggested last year by the General Board, Selection and Preparation of Food for Nutrition, has been taken up in many stakes with success. It is suggested by the General Board that for the coming year we continue this study, and it is hoped that those who have not taken the course will do so. The following subjects have been selected as a suggestive course: Year's Food Supply. Food Sanitation. Clean Dishes. Selection and Preparation of Vegetables. Efficient Kitchen for Food Preparation. Food Habits and Appetites. Safe Cleaning Suggestions. School Lunches. Preservation. ANEMIA It is suggested that the plan given last year for conducting the course be used this coming year. We refer you to the May Magazine for 1938. Material will be compiled, with lists of pamphlets included, and sent to stake presidents in the near future; these lists will also be published in the Magazine. Additional material may be published in the Magazine from time to time. It is suggested that stake Work and Business leaders contact their
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, MAY - 329
own Boards of Health and agricultural colleges for additional material on these subjects. Libraries, current magazines and newspapers will be profitable sources of information. What greater objective could the Work and Business department have than that of aiding mothers in the problem of developing physically healthy family members. The address, Guarding the Family Health, by Elna Miller will appear in a later issue.
Choristers and Organists Department Janet M. Thompson, Chairman
A LARGE group of choristers and organists attended the Music Department, and the interest and enthusiasm manifested by them gives promise of a most successful future for Relief Society musical activities. With our objective for 1939-1940 in mind?to improve the quality, the character and the effectiveness of music in all of our Relief Society organizations?the Music Department presented the following program: Ida Peterson Beal spoke to the subject, "Ten Minutes?They Are Yours," and stressed the importance of the ten minute song practice. Beatrice F. Stevens, not only a writer of verse but also a composer of music, introduced two new songs, The Work We're Called To Do and Our Father In Heaven, Thy Praises We Sing, composed especially for our Relief Society women. The latter song is dedicated to President Louise Y. Robison. We are indeed indebted to Sister Stevens for her valuable contributions to the new song book. Professor Wade N. Stephens, Assistant Tabernacle Organist, discussed "Fundamentals of Conducting". A full report of his talk will be given in a later issue of the Magazine. Another feature of the program was the introduction of a new Easter song. The words of this particular number were taken from the Magazine and were penned by Estelle Webb Thomas, which she titled "The Resurrection". Professor Stephens graciously consented to compose the music, and we are delighted to have it among our collection of new songs. We sincerely appreciate the earnest, untiring efforts of mission, stake and ward choristers and organists. We are grateful for the work that has been accomplished in elevating Relief Society music to a higher level,
330 - MAY, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
in developing a greater appreciation for it and in stimulating among our members a desire for better music. We are deeply grateful for the Relief Society Singing Mothers and are indebted to them for their outstanding contribution to the Organization, for their loyalty, cooperation and good will. The committee is zealously working on the new Relief Society Song Book, and missions, stakes and wards will be notified when it is ready for distribution.
TEN MINUTES?THEY ARE YOURS