[Vol26 | May 1939 | Sequence: 25 | Category: Article | Title: Mormon Handicraft]

Mormon Handicraft The Mormon Handicraft has developed splendidly. We are sorry it is necessary to return some articles which do not come up to our standards.
Please help the sisters to have more supervision in the wonderful native ability which they possess. In order to standardize our work and to develop greater skill in handwork the General Board has called in a group of outstanding women who act as an advisory committee. We strongly advise this same procedure in the stakes and wards.
Select the most capable women in your communities and meet with them at regular periods. You will be surprised and delighted with the new ideas you will receive and the enthusiasm your groups will enjoy. Deseret Industries We are happy to tell you that the Deseret Industries are doing a fine service in supplying work?with a small wage?to people who are not otherwise employed.
Will you please advise people to buy from Deseret Industries rather than from installment houses.
There are fine mattresses, articles of furniture and used clothing for sale.
Unlike the Bishop's Store House where merchandise is obtained on a bishop's order, the Deseret Industries sell to anyone and at very modest prices.
Arrangements can be made where reliable people can pay for goods purchased, by the week or month. Alcohol Education We are greatly interested in the Church campaign for alcohol education. Brother Joseph F. Mernill, who is in charge of this work, desires to know how generally the three small books dealing with this subject have been read in your homes by all members of the family. Brother Merrill has asked the Relief Society sisters to stimulate interest in this project.
Weare not required to collect money for these valuable little books, but will you stake presidents please advise your ward presidents to ask the visiting teachers to familiarize themselves with this important subject and carry the information into the homes on their regular visits.
Schools are excellent mediums for ? teaching children and young people the harmful effects of alcohol as a beverage.
Laws in many of the states provide for this important instruction. We hope the Relief Societies will sponsor the study of the laws of your respective states, and where provision is made for such instruction that you will see that it is put into effect.
Popularize it by stimulating other organizations to join with you in calling upon school RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, MAY - 317 RECEIVING LINE AT RECEPTION boards and school superintendents. If young people knew what alcohol does to the body, it would certainly be a great deterrent against beginning this terribly destructive habit.
Expenditures of Annual Dues To clarify a misunderstanding we would like to tell you that the money for entertainments given by the General Board does not come from the annual dues. The annual dues are spent solely for the benefit of Relief Society work. Out of the annual dues we pay for the visiting teachers' books; out of the annual dues we pay for our visits to the stakes; out of the annual dues the secretary's office sends to you our instructions and helps, but please know that annual dues are not spent for any kind of party. MY dear mission presidents, stake officers and board members, I express the appreciation of the members of the General Board for your splendid leadership. We are grate. Ful for your loyalty, for your gracious kindness to us when we visit your missions and stakes.
Above all we thank our Heavenly Father for your spirituality and for the unselfish service to His children. May He continue to bless you and sustain you in your wonderful work of love, I humbly pray. 318 - MAY, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE SOCIAL WELFARE INSTITUTES Bishop Joseph L. Wirthlin AM happy and thrilled to have the privilege of attending this meeting.
Frankly speaking, I do not know of a group of people who have in their meetings such an atmosphere of faith and of spirituality as is found in the Relief Society meetings of this great Church. In the life of your first President, Sister Emma Smith, there is exemplified the spirit of this great Organization. A short time ago I was reading of the exodus of our people from the State of Missouri to Illinois.
Having had the privilege of covering some of that territory, I deeply appreciate what our people passed through during that terrible experience.
They were driven out in the middle of the night by the mob, with very little notice in order to make the proper preparation. Sister Emma Smith and her family were among these people. The President of the Church was in prison; and when the mob came to her home she gathered together her small children and a few household effects, put them into a wagon, and made the journey to the site of Nauvoo.
After she arrived in Nauvoo and had established herself as best she could with her family, there being no one there to help her, the brethren of the Church who were not in prison said: "Now, Sister Smith, we have left behind in Missourl many of our brothers and sisters who are not able to come to Illinois because they have no means of transportation." Sister Smith said: "Take my wagon, take my team, take anything I have; go back to Missouri and bring those people to Illinois."
This good woman, in her distress, had not forgotten those who were left behind; she gladly gave of the things she had to make it possible for the Saints in Missouri to come to Illinois. Then, I think, too, of the many fine contributions of this great Organization to the Church. To me you represent the true spirit of the Good Samaritan. I am sure there is no one who ever makes a call upon a Relief Society president, be she a stake or ward president, but that the call is answered?answered to the utmost in every way that will be for the good and benefit of those who may be in need of assistance. You have a wonderful program?a program that contemplates something more than just the physical problems of our people?a program that takes into consideration the matter of health, of education, the right kind of recreation, employment, community welfare, and above everything else, spiritual welfare. You have afforded to many women in the Church, and I dare say to some outside of it, opportunities and privileges that they could never have enjoyed had it not been for the Relief Society organization. I do not suppose that you will ever know how much happiness and real joy you have brought into the homes of many of the women of this Church because of the wonderful program that you have. The Church is making some progress relative to the problems that confront us.
There is no use in denying that we have problems?serious problems. Only Sunday I saw a survey made in the United States, and if I remember the figures correctly, this was what was reported: Part of the population of this great country have a month's reserves on hand in case they were thrown out of employment.
Another part of the population of this great country have enough reserves in the way of cash and food to carry them for six months if they were thrown out of employment. The conclusion of the survey was, that if something should happen in this country whereby all of these people who are now on relief projects, those who have some employment, and those who have reserves from one to six months were suddenly thrown out of work, over half of the population would be dependent upon the Government or someone else for assistance. So we have a great national problem; and as a Church we have our problems. The President of the Church and his Counselors have decided that the Church should solve this problem as far as our people are concerned.
Some two and a half or three years ago the great Church Welfare Program was inaugurated, the first objective being to take care of our people, the physical needs to be provided, such as fuel, clothing, and food; and that has been done in a most magnificent way. The contributions of our agricultural stakes in the way of food have been most generous. The city stakes made cash contributions and contributions of clothing. By cooperating as a great Church we have been able to reach, in a large measure, the first objective.
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, MAY - 319
The second objective has been that we provide employment. It was never intended that the Church Welfare Program should become a dole, but rather an institution that would take care of our people temporarily, and then give them something to do, the right to earn their bread by the sweat of their brow. This is the objective we are struggling for, and I am sure in time we shall achieve it. In consideration of some of the problems in connection with the Church Welfare Program the Presiding Bishopric has made some studies. We have made surveys in some of our wards. We selected a ward that was fairly well-to-do and went over the list of families being assisted by the bishopric of the ward. This bishopric was issuing relief in the form of cash, which is contrary to the spirit of the Church Welfare Program. We discovered that in some instances individuals were receiving cash allowances in amounts ranging from $25 to $50 per month, and that in some cases they were also receiving assistance from other agencies. Then we asked that a survey be made of a ward in which there were many cases where people were on WPA projects, and many who were wholly dependent upon the ward. This particular ward was one that might be classified as not a well-to-do ward. We discovered that the bishop had fifty cases and that 29 of them were receiving assistance from outside agencies, either employed by WPA or receiving some assistance from outside agencies such as the County. So with these two surveys in our office, we wondered if it would not be a good thing
320 - MAY, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
to inaugurate a plan whereby we could know, whereby the bishop of the ward could know, that those who are receiving assistance from the Church were receiving it because they were worthy of it, and that there would not be any duplication of assistance.
With these thoughts in mind, and after considering the matter very carefully with the General Welfare Committee, it was decided that we would inaugurate a plan whereby our sisters could receive some fundamental training in social welfare work. It was decided that we would make a beginning in the Salt Lake Region.
From this Region we would branch out until eventually every stake in the Church would have in its organization some sisters who would be trained along the lines of social welfare work, that they might do this work in an intelligent, systematic way, and give this information to the bishops of the wards. In the Salt Lake Region we instituted a training class under the direction of the General Presidency of the Relief Society and their Board.
This class has now met possibly five or six times; and here, under the direction of Sister Amy B.
Lyman and Sister Amy W.
Evans and others, these sisters are being given the fundamentals that I have already mentioned to you. In making a study of their outlines I have noted two or three points which to me are most interesting and vital in this great work of understanding people and of knowing how to approach them in connection with their most intimate problems. In this outline it is contemplated first that the individual making the survey in connection with the family shall have a complete understanding of the relationship between the Relief Society and the bishop. I should like to say a word about the bishop and his position in the Church. In the ward he is the common judge in Israel; he is the presiding authority, and all projects and movements are under his direction. The auxiliary organizations of the Church, such as the Relief Society, Primary and the Mutual Improvement Association are helps and aids to him in seeing that the Church program is carried forward. No auxiliary organization ever takes precedence over the bishop, and I am sure, Sister Robison, that there is no group in the Church who understands this more thoroughly than these loyal, devoted sisters. I presided over a ward during the darkest days of the depression.
Over night there was thrust upon the shoulders of the bishopric forty families, and I want to say to you, we were lost. If it had not been for the fine Relief Society president and Relief Society organization pointing out the way, I am confident we would have had many problems that would not have been solved; we leaned entirely upon the Relief Society organization. We provided the food and clothing and all the necessities.
They saw that this was properly distributed.
They visited families for us and brought back reports which were most helpful. So, in connection with this work you aid the bishop. You are responsible to him. And no doubt, in connection with the project I am going to present to you in a moment, he will direct your efforts and prescribe more or less the plan he wants followed in his ward. In connection with this training class, there are some fundamentals which are most pertinent to the successful carrying on of this important welfare work. First, the ability of the worker to keep strictly confidential the affairs of the people being helped.
There are individuals in the Church, who because of their pride, hate to go to the bishop and confess that they are in need, but when such is the case and the bishop calls in his Relief Society president and tells her of this situation, then the obligation rests upon her to keep absolutely confidential all matters pertaining to the family involved.
This is one of the most important qualifications of a worker, for a worker who cannot keep the confidence of her people soon loses her influence with them, and she will not be successful.
When this call comes to your stake under the direction of the General Board, I am sure this particular phase of the work will be given special emphasis.
There is the matter of good judgment. I would like to say this in connection with the needs of the people of our Church?their home needs, their physical needs?there is no one better qualified to determine what these needs are than you mothers, the managers of homes. You know more about these matters than we men, so your judgment should be good. In passing, let me read to you a statement in connection with good judgment: "The worker should be able to make plans that are practicable. She should not be overemotional, as it is a well known fact that too much emotion interferes with good judgment. Nor should she be too impulsive, but should
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, MAY - 321
be able to think through a situation carefully before acting." I am sure this statement is most pertinent to the work you are called to do. There is the matter of tact. "Thoughtfulness for the feelings of others, and a kind attitude toward them is an essential element in the personality of a worker." I should like to digress here long enough to tell you a little story where the feelings of some good people were sorely hurt. There was a Priesthood quorum in the Church who knew that one of its members was in distress, and out of goodness of heart purchased fine pieces of clothing for this man and his good wife. Then with the very best of intentions, and without consulting the man or his wife, these articles of clothing were presented to them unexpectedly. It almost broke the heart of the woman. She was proud and did not know anyone knew of her condition. Had someone gone into that home and talked the matter through with them and found out what their needs were, with tact and diplomacy, no doubt these articles could have been given to them and would have been accepted with no one's feelings being hurt. The matter of thinking of the feelings of people is essential, and I am sure there is no one who can approach these problems with finer tact and diplomacy than the women of the great Relief Society Organization. Here is another point found in the outline of the General Board: "Sympathy and tolerance: Real sympathy says little but does much. To be tolerant a worker should be able to suspend judgment until all the facts are known and both sides
322 - MAY, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
of the question considered?never condemn a person unheard; and she should be able to see the other's point of view." I am sure that is splendid advice.
These workers should have the ability to work with others and to work under direction. As I said in the beginning, you will work under the direction of the bishop and the president of the stake. If I am not mistaken, it is the intention of the Relief Society to give this assignment of visiting families and making the survey of the ward to the Relief Society president; and should she not be able to do this work, she and the bishop should select a person ideally fitted for it. In the next place, the worker should have a real liking for the work she is called to do, and the suggestion comes that she should have good native intelligence and a wholesome personality. I am sure there is no group of women in the world who have more native intelligence than those found in Relief Society, and every woman who comes in contact with this Organization develops personality.
Here is the meat of this whole outline?the important thing.
Through this suggestion comes the achievement of our second objective, that people shall be taught to help and assist themselves. The Church Welfare Program is not a dole. "Put into every man's heart a sense of his own supreme worth in the sight of God"?that is the spiritual side.
Respect for the individual and for his personality and character is a fundamental principle in the art of helping. It aims to maintain the self-respect of the individual?to help in such a way that he will not suffer undue humiliation. The next aim should be to maintain his morale so that he will not lose his desire for independence and allow others to do for him what he could do for himself.
People must be taught, and we must encourage them to keep their independence, and not allow us or anyone else to do something for them that they can do for themselves.
There is no question but that the program of the past seven or eight years relative to relief has had a demoralizing effect upon the American people, because the people have had things done for them in many instances where they could have done for themselves. In the Church Program it is our intention to see that everyone does what he can for himself, and remove from his mind and thoughts the idea that he is dependent upon someone. Any normal individual may require temporary assistance, that is true. The first objective of the Church Welfare Program was to furnish temporary assistance in the form of food and shelter and clothing, but to keep him in a state of dependence when he could maintain himself is a crime against the individual as well as the society which supports him. It robs society of the kind of people who make a self-sustaining social order possible, and causes the individual to sell his birthright for a mess of pottage. You have had contact with families who will permit you to take care of them indefinitely.
They will permit you to do everything that you possibly can for them without making any effort to assist themselves. As members of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints we want to go back to the fundamentals of the pioneers and teach our people, in so far as it is possible, to stand squarely upon their own feet, and to meet the issues as best they can, with the assurance that there is always someone interested in them to the extent that they will not have to go hungry. The Relief Society keeps in mind this principle in the care of the needy. Its efforts will always build up rather than destroy those qualities in personality which contribute to the welfare of the individual and through him to society. In looking over the annual report of the Relief Society for the year 1938, I find that you practice what you preach.
Many people have come to the office of the General Board for assistance, and here is what you have done: 3,877 women applied for work; 3,375 employers were solicited for work, and there were 2,680 women placed in employment.
That is real rehabilitation, and if we could just accomplish throughout the Church what is being accomplished in the Relief Society in this particular connection, I am sure we would preserve the independence of all our people who find themselves in need. As I said in the beginning, this matter of making investigations is a serious one that must be done in all kindness; and if, after you have made an investigation for a bishop, he refuses to follow your suggestions, do not feel hurt. You have done your duty. You have fulfilled your assignment.
There is just another word in connection with finances. The finances that are used to take care of our people and the finances of the
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, MAY - 323
Church Welfare Program come from the tithes. To me tithing is the most sacred money that anyone can handle. Taxes are sacred, but tithing is far more sacred because it belongs to the Lord. It represents the widow's mite, and it also represents the large income of the rich man. We must handle it most intelligently so that the dollars will go as far as possible. As time goes on, as I said, the Relief Society Board will come into your stakes and bring to you this program. It had its beginning in the Salt Lake Region composed of sixteen stakes, and I am sure it is going to produce for us some splendid results. I sincerely trust that the Lord will bless and sustain you in your great work. Your faith and loyalty to the Church are an inspiration. I met a man in the Temple grounds yesterday as this great crowd of Singing Mothers emerged from the Tabernacle. He was a stranger within our gates, and he asked, "Who are all these women?" "They are Singing Mothers of the Relief Society." He said, "It must cost the Church a great amount of money to bring them here and pay them to sing." I said, "They are not paid; they pay their own transportation, coming from the remote parts of the Church, and paying all expenses." He said, "I cannot believe it; I do not know how that can be possible." But I told him such was the case, and that they were glad to come, feeling it a privilege to serve the Church. I pray the Lord to bless and continue to inspire you in this great work.
324 - MAY, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
PROGRESS OF THE 1938 MEMBERSHIP DRIVE