[Vol26 | May 1939 | Sequence: 17 | Category: Article | Title: Our Greatest Heritage]
OUR GREATEST HERITAGE
By Counselor Kate M. Barker WITHOUT faith it is impossible to please God."
Faith is pleasing to God because He knows how vital it'is to man. As we think of the distress in the world today, are we not every day of our lives filled with joy because our faith tells us that God does live, that there is meaning and purpose and continuity to life, that mght will prevail? But faith to be strong enough to endure must not stop at giving us comfort and a feeling of security. It must not only do something for us but make us do things.
Faith is not an end to accomplish. It should rather be a starting point for new and greater things. The message of the Gospel to each of us is to get our values straight, then begin with ourselves, our homes, our communities. Our Relief Society lessons are planned to help us find the real values in life, which are faith in God, faith in the purpose, beauty and possibilities of life, and faith in one another.
They are planned also to give practical help in applying our faith to works. 'The measure of their worth is whether the standards of home and community life are being raised. The great need of the world today is for leadership, and nowhere is it so needed as in the home. I like to think of Relief Society as a training school in leadership for mothers, providing such training as will result in higher home standards in the type of conversation, in the books read, in the love and unity of the family, in the spiritual life of the home. It is the sins of selfishness and unkindness which make for lack of love and unity in the home. 'These were the sins which Jesus hated above all else. Let us make faith in goodness easy for our children.
There is so much happening today to tend to destroy faith in life. The home must make greater effort than ever to give youth the kind of faith which, though one is aware of the realities and difficulties of life, gives one an appreciation of the purposefulness of life and the courage and zest to meet life. If youth is to succeed it must thus face life.
Another test of our lessons will be: Is our own and our children's love of the Gospel increasing? Is our faith strong enough to inspire them? Sister Spafford's little Scotch grandmother had a beautiful gold watch and chain. One day when a little girl Sister Spafford, who admired the watch, said to her grandmother, "Grandmother, will you leave me your watch and chain?" "My dear, I am leaving you something much more valuable. I brought it across the ocean from Scotland. It is the Gospel."
What an impression to make on a little girl's mind and heart, especially when that testimony was corroborated by a wonderful life. The community is but the home 342 - MAY, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE writ large, and woman's responsibility reaches there?the same responsibility which she has in the home ?protecting the weak, caring for the sick and unfortunate, setting the standards of spiritual and cultural life. We all love to help. But in our complicated society the need for help is often not easy to see until tragedy comes. Our work is planned to help us understand human nature and the problems people are meeting today in order that we may be more sensitive to the needs of others and more understanding. The test of our success will be measured by the number of breakdowns which we prevent by extending a helping hand in time. How wonderful is the challenge our faith offers! A challenge so high it calls for the best of which we are capable.
Jesus never minimized the discipline needed to be in His service. The Gospel asks us "not to be ministered unto but to administer".
Opportunities for service are many. The chief causes of regret when we look back on life are the opportunities wasted, the responsibilities not met. Our faith is very precious to us. Let us resolve that nothing will rob us of it, that it will be active, that it will be the starting point for new and bigger things. Let us remember that our Father in Heaven was speaking to every member of the Church when He said, "Therefore O ye that embark in the service of God, see that ye serve Him with all your heart, might, mind and strength." If we do this our faith will never die. "We know whom we have trusted."
SOME FUNDAMENTALS By Counselor Amy Brown Lyman
THE confused and disturbed condition of the world today, with its abnormal social and moral conditions, its economic and industrial problems, its unemployment and unrest, has caused thinking men and women to wonder what important fundamentals have been overlooked or ignored in the world's economy, or in life itself, that such conditions are possible. Among the groups which are making a comprehensive and prayerful study of conditions is our own Church; and though we are a small group, as world groups go, the Church is trying to set its own house in order. It has realized the seriousness of the situation surrounding its people and is trying to help solve their social and economic problems. I was especially impressed with the gravity of world conditions last July when I attended a meeting of the International Council of Women in Edinburgh, Scotland, where I heard prominent women from 31 nations discuss the pressing problems of the day from many angles and from their various national and racial viewpoints. These ordinarily well poised women were greatly disturbed over the serious conditions in their respective countries. The European women especially were concerned, apprehensive and filled with doubts and fears. They had not forgotten the last war with its consequent hardships, sufferings and tragedies, and now they feared another. Earnest prayers were offered daily in this great convention that enlightenment would come to the world; that men's hearts would be softened and turned from hate, selfishness, greed and war; and that the Golden Rule might be revitalized and adopted universally as a guide. Social philosophers, economists, newspaper columnists and other experts in our country are daily discussing the complex situation and trying to point the way to recovery and to peace. Dr. Henry C. Link in his new book The Rediscovery of Man has made some interesting observations and constructive suggestions. He infers that much of our present-day trouble is due to the fact that the world has drifted too far away from the fundamental principles and standards developed by the past, too far away from the great moral laws set up in the Old Testament, too far away from the teachings and ideals of the Savior. He declares that conditions would improve readily if people would but accept these universal truths and follow these laws. Dr. Link's social philosophy in many respects is not unlike that of our own Church which a few years ago was re-emphasized and reaffirmed by the First Presidency when they issued a Recall to social service, to the Christian ideals of the brotherhood of man, to religion?applied faith and spirituality.
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, MAY - 343
This great concerted effort on the part of the L. D. S. Church to help its people everywhere meet the complex conditions with which they are faced has been most inspiring and comforting to the people themselves, and has won the admiration of other groups. Definite objectives have been set up by the Church, the attainment of which will be sure to bring good results. The Church in its Welfare Program has been mindful of the values and lessons of the past; mindful of the abstract principles of right and wrong. It has stood firmly for those fundamental principles and standards and home-spun philosophies which have stood the test of time, which apply in all ages and which do not change even in a changing world. It has emphasized the fact that work, self-effort and self-reliance are basic elements of personal security and independence, and to this end it has sought to create work and opportunity; that industry, thrift and economy are the foundation stones of success in business and in home life; that too much social security weakens personal security; that honesty pays; that straightforwardness, dependability and integrity pay; that debt, whether national or personal, is bondage; that waste is calamitous; that installment buying is too expensive generally to be indulged in. In connection with this philosophy the Church, as always, seeks to develop faith in God and in His purposes, and obedience to the teachings of the Gospel. It is gratifying that the Relief Society is supporting and nobly assisting in this great Welfare Program.
344 - MAY, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
The General Board is most grateful for and appreciative of the efforts put forth by Relief Society women in this additional work, as well as in carrying forward the regular cultural and educational program of the Organization. An article by President George H.
Brimhall has stimulated me greatly. One excerpt from it I shall read. He asks and answers his own pointed question. It is: "Who are the honest, constructive, helpful members of the Church?" "They are those who pray for the poor and pay their fast offerings; they are those who pray for the building up of Zion, and pay their tithing; they are those who pray for the missionaries and contribute to their support; they are those who pray for forgiveness and forgive others; they are those who pray for health and keep the Word of Wisdom; they are those who pray for divine support of leaders, and stand for their counsel and advice." The Relief Society has just passed its 97th birthday. All down through its history it has been a faithful and loyal auxiliary to the Church, and a devoted aid to the Priesthood. It has been both conservative and progressive; it has looked both backward and forward, cherishing all of the virtues of the past but always facing bravely the needs of the future with its new conditions. At various periods during its existence the Organization has emphasized movements that were of particular importance to the women of each era.
Since the day of its organization in 1842, one of its major activities has been welfare work. In this it has tried to use constructive, intelligent methods based on sound principles, tempered with love, sympathy and mercy. It has studied the problems connected with this work seriously. It has tried to keep constantly in mind the importance of normal life and opportunity for the individuals and families it has served. It has aimed to hold sacred their personalities and their confidences. It has tried to develop within them strength rather than weakness. And now it is giving its full strength, power and support to the Priesthood and the Church in this last great project. Relief Society women are constantly striving for greater knowledge and understanding of the world we live in?for knowledge of the laws of health, science, economics, morals and religion.
Their chief study, however, is religion?the Gospel of Jesus Christ.
They stress the importance of good homes and the proper rearing of children. We as Latter-day Saints have constantly been taught that the great object of the Church is to assist in the establishment of the Kingdom of God here on this earth.
Recently in an address before the students of Brigham Young University Brother Stephen L Richards discussed the subject in a most interesting manner. He began thus: "How can we establish the Kingdom of God? By living, teaching, and establishing the laws of that Kingdom.
What are the laws of that Kingdom?
They are the decalogue and the Gospel of Jesus Christ." Relief Society women stand firmly for the observance of the great moral laws of the Bible.
They stand firmly for the Gospel of Jesus Christ which has been fully restored.
Their constant desire is to observe all the laws of the Kingdom, to live up to
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, MAY - 345
all of the teachings and requirements of the Gospel and to be considered and known as orthodox Latter-day Saints.
ADDRESS By President Louise Y. Robison
WE are near the close of this wonderful Conference. I wish I had words to express my appreciation to our Heavenly Father for His Spirit that has been with us, for the beautiful weather we have had, and for these marvelous singers. In all my life I have never heard anything lovelier, and I do not expect to, not only in this life, but in eternity. It gives me great joy to give these sisters a blessing for themselves and for their families who have made sacrifices in order that they might come, some of them a long way. We have been blessed with the visit of our Hawaiian sisters. I am sure those who have had contact with them will never forget their wonderful testimonies, their loving, sweet spirits, their beautiful, colorful leis, and how freely they have helped us in all of our gatherings. I have never experienced anything more thrilling in my life than my visit to these wonderful women?to their wonderful people. I said at the time, I had wondered when I was a young woman why missionaries were sent to those far-away islands when we were just settling this valley and hardly had homes of our own?why send missionaries such a long distance to the Sandwich Islands? But when I met these people, saw their faith?the real blood of Israel?I could see why. I am sure you will let me express to Sister Salm and her sisters our love for them, and our aloha, and ask them to take it to their people when they return home. We have so many things for which to be thankful. A few days ago I picked up a little book that President Grant had given me, entitled Finding God in Millersville. I had read this interesting narrative many times, but never before realized that the ideas which changed Mr. Thornton from a man who did not believe in God to an earnest, ardent worker for humanity were the very principles which were given to Relief Society by the Prophet Joseph Smith. Those of you who have read the book will remember Mr. Thornton's early business life; he was quite sure there was no God and thought only of material profit. Then a change came. Let me read a few paragraphs: "Gradually, as I got nearer to my people, they began to move in close to me. Without realizing it until long afterward I had made my first great religious discovery. I had discovered my fellow men?my brothers. The closer I got to them, the more I admired them. The amount of love, and patience and simple faith in the average lowly man and woman became to me nothing short of marvelous. Men whom I had always regarded as rather slow-
346 - MAY, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
witted, ordinary fellows, I found to be real heroes when I got under their skins.
Human personality became to me the most marvelous and precious and wonderful thing in the world." It is the human personality which Relief Society is trying to develop; it is seeing beyond the service the real heroes and heroines and meeting them with love and patience. As evidence I have here a report of the activities for last year of our wonderful women.
Only last month the stakes were asked for a report of the work done by Relief Society for the Church Welfare.
