[Vol26 | May 1939 | Sequence: 22 | Category: Article | Title: Article by Linnie Parker]

By Linnie Parker Gold USIE ran a finger through her short dark locks, and two puzzled lines appeared on her nineyear-old brow. She read the problem again: "If a farmer bought a calf for $12 and it cost $3 a month to feed it, and he sold it six months later for $42, how much profit did he make?" The problem seemed simple enough, but Susie wasn't concentrating. She had a problem of her own which read like this: "Tf a flower in Mr. Cowan's window costs 98c, and a girl just has to buy it for her mother for Mother's Day, which is only six days away, and the girl has only 22c, how can she get the other 76c?" The problem would be much simpler if only she had some spare time, but there was Mommy to be taken care of—and ol' Pudge.
Mommy had to stay in bed all the time. She hadn't been able to get up since she hurt her back right after Daddy died two years ago. The doctor said Mommy could walk again if she had an operation, but the operation would cost hundreds and hundreds of dollars, and the little money Daddy had left them was almost gone now. 'That was why Susie didn't have an Easter dress, and why they didn't have desserts any more except on holidays. Ol' Pudge was Susie's three-year-old brother. His real name was James, but he was just as wide as he was tall, and his legs were ever so short, and wherever they went he just barely moved along, no matter how Susie coaxed and pleaded.
Susie took him to the free day nursery every morning as she went to school and called for him on the way home. A visiting nurse came to see Mommy every day, and Mrs.
Brown next door always brought Mommy some lunch and came any time Mommy knocked on the window; but it was up to Susie to keep the little three-roomed house clean and prepare their meals, with Mommy to tell her exactly what to do. Whenever Susie thought about Mommy, a soft, warm feeling crept over her.
Mommy was so sweet and patient, and she understood about everything.
That was why Susie just had to buy the white lily for Mother's Day. It was the most beautiful thing in the world, and Mommy was the kind who ought to have beautiful things. But the most important reason was because the white lily would make Mommy well.
Susie knew that it would. She had known it ever since yesterday morning when the Sunday School teacher had told about the lady who touched Christ's robe and was healed. Of course, Christ wasn't here any more so people could touch his robe, but Susie knew there must be some way He could make people well, and when she saw the white lily in Mr. Cowan's window on the way home from Sunday School, a funny tingling feeling in her heart had told her that Christ had made that beautiful white lily just especially to make Mommy well. If Mommy could only touch it— She tried to tell ol' Pudge about it, but he was more interested in breathing on the shop window to make it all foggy.
Susie had been saving her pennies ever since Christmas to get Mommy that set of colored thread that cost a quarter at McMillan's dry goods store on the corner, but now she couldn't think of anything but the white lily and how she could get the other seventysix cents. She just couldn't waste her time figuring out about farmers and calves. Let the farmer worry about that— "COME on, Pudge, please!"
Susie coaxed, "if you'll walk just a little faster we'll go 'round by the long way and see if the flower's still in the window." "Don't wanna," Pudge said, stopping to pick up a shiny pebble by the walk. "An' we'll stop at Mrs. Carlyle's an' you can see the cats," Susie promised.
This being a little more to Pudge's liking, he quickened his pace imperceptibly. Yes! The lily was still there—way over to one side with a little card on it that said 98c. It was lovely—whiter than anything Susie had ever before seen.
Pudge didn't seem interested, but then, he was so little—and you couldn't expect a three-year-old to understand about things like that. He'd be interested enough if he only knew that it would make Mommy all well again.
Susie sighed. She would liked to have looked at it for hours, but Pudge was chasing a bug or something in the gutter, and besides Mommy would be expecting them home, and she wanted to stop and see if there was any work Mrs.
Carlyle would let her do to earn some money. The Carlyles had an automobile and a vacuum cleaner—and a lawn—and lots RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, MAY - 291 of things. But Mrs.
Carlyle didn't seem to think it would be a good idea for Susie to try to do any more work. "Why," she said, "we're the ones that ought to be coming to you for work, my dear! You seem to have a monopoly on 'it. I don't know how you'd do any more than you do!" "But I want to buy a flower for Mother's Day," Susie explained. "Your mother thinks you're the sweetest little flower in the world," said Mrs.
Carlyle kindly. "You don't have to worry about buying flowers for her.
Being good and honest and helpful means a whole lot more to mothers than things you can buy with money.
Your mother appreciates all you're doing for her, and one little flower more or less wouldn't make any difference to her!" "Oh, yes it would!' Susie exclaimed. "You see, the flower would make her well—so she could walk— an al?. Mrs.
Carlyle smiled indulgently. "The only thing that will make your mother well is an operation, little one," she said.
Susie guessed it wouldn't do to explain about Christ and the lily. Grown-ups were like Pudge—they just didn't seem to understand about things like that. But Mommy would understand—only she couldn't tell Mommy—it had to be a surprise! At two other places Susie stopped to see if she could run errands or tend babies, but she met with practically the same results, so they trudged on home to find Mommy waiting with a smile.
Pudge curled up on the bed beside her while Susie 292 - MAY, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE fixed stew and bread and milk for their dinner.
When dinner had been cleared away and Pudge was in bed, Susie brought out pen and ink and paper and laboriously set to work to write in twenty-five words or less why she liked Kleenzol Soap. It would mean she'd have to spend three of her precious twenty-two cents to send it away with the wrappers; but it would be worth it, for then she might win two hundred dollars.
Every day they gave away a two hundred dollar first prize and twelve ten dollar prizes.
Susie figured she ought to at least win a ten dollar prize. If she ran down to the corner and mailed it tonight, it would get there by Wednesday; and she had heard over the radio that Wednesday's winners would be announced Saturday. Of course, she wouldn't get the money on Saturday, but then, she guessed Mr.
Cowan would let her charge the lily if she had been announced a winner and had all that much money coming to her.