[Vol26 | May 1939 | Sequence: 23 | Category: Article | Title: Article by Friday Susie]

By Friday Susie was a bundle of nerves, despairing one minute and hopeful the next. She and Pudge had delivered three packages for Mr. McMillan on Wednesday §afternoon, for which he had paid her a dime, and some kind old man had given Pudge a nickel while he was waiting outside the store with his nose pressed flat against the jelly bean. Display. That made thirty-four cents they had altogether—sixty-four cents left to get—a tremendous sum; but there was still the soap contest to hope for! I was on the way home from school Friday afternoon that Susie found the purse. Perhaps if Pudge hadn't suddenly been seized by an irresistible desire to wade in the gutter, she would never have: seen it. But Pudge went wading, and when she rushed over to pull him out, there was the purse—right on the edge of the curb! She pounced on it with an excited little gasp and sank down on the grass to examine it while Pudge gleefully resumed his wading. There was $2.85 in the purse! Susie felt a bit dizzy. Such wealth! Now she could buy the lily, and Mommy would be well, and they could go on picnics and have all sorts of gay adventures! But Susie noticed with dismay that there was a card in the purse that said it belonged to a Mrs. Nelson of 265
Del Monte Court. Del Monte Court was the last street she passed before she got to school. The houses over there were pretty nice, Susie argued. Mrs. Nelson wouldn't need the $2.85. She probably wouldn't ever miss it, and just think what it could do for Mommy and Pudge and herself! Resolutely she tucked the purse between her books, pulled Pudge out of the gutter and started toward home. But she didn't feel quite comfortable. She wished that if God were going to let her find a purse, it could have been one without any name on it. Mommy would say it wasn't honest to keep it. Susie thought of how Mrs. Carlyle had said being good and honest meant more to mothers than presents and things. But being honest wouldn't buy the white lily—and Susie had to buy the white lily! Her heart beat more rapidly as they approached Mr. Cowan's florist shop. She always held her breath until she got close enough to see if it had been sold—and ol' Pudge was so slow! But it was still there—lovelier than ever with a new white bud just opening. She touched the purse to reassure herself. Why she could walk in there and buy it right this minute! But the longer she looked at the lily, the more she knew that she couldn't do it! "It wouldn't do any good, Pudge," she said thoughtfully. "I guess if we bought it with this money it wouldn't make Mommy well after all—on account of the money not really belonging to us, I mean. It'd still be beautiful and Mommy would like it, and all, but it just wouldn't work. We'll have to take the purse back." They turned around. It was five blocks to Del Monte Court, and Susie had to carry Pudge part of the way, but it was worth it because Mrs. Nelson seemed very happy to get her purse back. She gave Susie a quarter and took them home in her car. Susie put the quarter with the rest of their money. All evening she kept thinking about the lily and wishing that she had it tucked safely away all ready to surprise Mommy on Sunday morning. But she was glad she had returned the purse. That's what Mommy would have told her to do. She wondered if God had anything to do with soap contests. Maybe if He knew about her returning the purse— SATURDAY was a busy day for Susie. The house had to be thoroughly cleaned because the rest of the week there was not time for anything but straightening. All day she worked because she wanted things to look extra nice for Mother’s Day. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, MAY - 293
Mommy had allowed her to make a cake because tomorrow was a special day, and Susie planned how they'd spread out a lunch on Mommy's bed tomorrow—just like a picnic—and she'd bring a carnation home from Sunday School and put it in that 'tiny vase in the window sill—and the lily would stand right there on the—but Susie was afraid to think of the lily now.
There was such a little time left, and there was only fifty-nine cents in the box, no matter how many times she counted it.
Once she laid her flushed cheek against her mother's cool one and said, "Mommy, if you had your 'druthers' what would you druther have than anything else for Mother's Day?" "My health," Mommy answered wistfully, "so I could be a real mother to my dear little kiddies." "You're the realest mother in the world," Susie said staunchly; but her heart longed more than ever for the lily that would make Mommy well. At 5:30 the Kleenzol Soap Company announced their Wednesday winners.
Susie listened with bated breath while they congratulated a Mrs.
Stone of Dayton, Ohio, for winning first prize. Oh well, she hadn't counted on winning that anyway. All she needed was thirty-nine cents. A ten dollar prize would be enough. But twelve names were read over the radio, and not one of them was Susie Baker! She couldn't believe it!
Quick tears came to her eyes and she went into the other room so Mommy couldn't see. She sat down by the table and buried her head in her arms. It wasn't fair —after she'd returned the purse and everything! But the steady ticking 294 - MAY, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE of the clock reminded her that it was almost six o'clock. Mr.
Cowan would be closing his shop, and she wouldn't have any flowers at all for Mommy in: the morning. You couldn't just stop living because you didn't win a soap contest. She'd just have to see what was the nicest thing fifty-nine cents would buy for the dearest mother in the world. NOW, Pudge," Susie said sternly as they pressed their freckled noses against the window, "concentrate on flowers instead of bugs for just a second, can't you?
This money's part yours and you got to help choose. 'There's a geranium for fifcents. Do you think Mommy would like it?" "Uh-huh," grunted Pudge, his eyes following a fat toad that was hopping on the sidewalk.
Susie looked and looked—there were sweet peas—Mommy would love them; but they wouldn't last a long time like the geranium or a fern. Her eyes kept going back to the white lily. It was no use. It was so beautiful that everything else in the window faded into insignificance —even the things that were marked five dollars!
Susie closed one eye and looked at the geranium again. It was pretty— A large car drew up to the curb and a young man got out. "You just stay in the car," he said to a young lady in a beautiful fur jacket. I’ll only be a minute!" "I don't understand you, Bill," the young lady said sharply. "You pass up all the nice florist shops in town and come way over here to this two-by-four joint.
They probably have never even seen an orchid." "Oh, but I'm not shopping for orchids, my love," the young man laughed. "You wait—it's a surprise!" "Well," she announced, "if you think I'm going to the Van Pelt dinner without orchids, you can just start looking for another date." "Hold everything," said the young man gayly. "We'll get you some orchids in town on the way back.
This is just a special whim of mine." He hurried into the store and Susie almost choked as she saw Mr.
Cowan come to the window and lift out the precious white lily. She wanted to scream, but she couldn't—she couldn't do anything but clutch Pudge's hand and stare. In a minute the young man came out with the flower all wrapped in green paper. He made an elaborate bow and handed it to the young lady through the open window of the car. "A potted plant?" she exclaimed lifting a pair of carefully plucked eyebrows. "What on earth do you expect me to do with a common potted plant—just sit here and hold it—or give it to Gladys Van Pelt to use as a centerpiece?" "It's not a common potted plant," said the young man defensively. "It's a beautiful lily—exactly the same kind that I have been buying at this same two-by-four joint as you call it, on the evening before Mother's Day for fourteen years. I bought one for Mother when I was fifteen with the first money I ever earned.
That was in the good old days when a dollar looked as big to me as ten thousand of them do now.
Mother was so thrilled with that first lily that I've kept getting the same kind year after year. She wouldn't have traded them for a whole car- load of orchids. And now this year no earthly gift can reach her—and I thought maybe you wouldn't mind if I bought a lily for you for Mother's Day—just because I love you and just because of the sweet mother you're going to be—" The young lady sat up very straight and held the pot distastefully. "Look, Bill," she said curtly, "you've got this all wrong. I'm never going to be a mother—" Susie saw the young man's mouth fly open. "Well, don't look so shocked," the girl continued irritably. ""Anybody'd think that was a crime. You asked me if I'd marry you—not if I'd tie myself down to a cradle. If you think I'm going to lose my figure and my health and good times just to have a lot of sniveling little dirty-faced youngsters like those—" Susie blushed.
There was no denying that Pudge's face was dirty— it usually was—and maybe even her own—you can't always be looking in the mirror when you're only nine. "Now, Doris, you're just upset," the young man said, getting into the car. Of course you want to be a mother.
Every girl does. It was clumsy of me, though.
Forgive me. I should have known enough to wait and buy the lily after there was a little high chair highness—" "There aren't going to be any high chair highnesses!" the girl snapped as she stepped out of the car. "Not for me!
Call me a taxi, and I'll go on to the dinner alone. The smell of this potted plant is nauseating!" She set it down on the running board, and stripping a ring from her finger, she handed it to the young man who seemed to be in a stupor. "I'll find me a man RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, MAY - 295 who thinks children are a bore—and you can take your lily and go find someone who appreciates such things. As for me," she added, making a motion to stop a taxi that was cruising by, "give me orchids or give me orchids—and I don't mean 'or kids'."
With a toss of her head she stepped into the taxi and was gone. The young man stared after her in blank dismay.
Susie stared after in disbelief—and Pudge just stared. SUSIE didn't want to be rude, but she had to act immediately. It was almost six and the store would be closing. The young man looked as if he might sit and stare into space for hours. On the other hand, he might suddenly start up the car and leave—and the lily was on the running board! "Mister," she said weakly. The young man didn't seem to hear. She went closer. "Mister—" He looked at her blankly. Her words tripped over each other. 'We wanted to buy that lily for Mommy, but we didn't have enough money—but it's awfully 'portant because Mommy is sick and it will make her well. The doctor says only an op'ration can make her walk, but the Sunday School teacher says a lady touched. Jesus' robe, and she was all well, and the lily is so white—like the robe, I mean, and I—I—that is, I just know Mommy would be well if she could only touch it—and we was wondering if you'd sell it to us for fifty-nine cents—on account of the pretty lady not wanting it, I mean—We could pay you the rest later if you'd tell us—" She paused. The young man didn't seem to have heard her.
There was a long silence, and then the 296 - MAY, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE young man seemed to come to life. "Sure, sure," he said, "you can have it. It's not of any use to me now.
Just take it." Susie's mouth fell open in surprise. "B-but you'll let us pay you the fifty-nine cents, won't you? I mean—if we don't pay you for it, it will be all from you and not from Pudge and me at all." A slow smile spread over the young man's face. He got out of the car and picked up the plant from the running board. "Okay," he said, "first you pay me the fiftynine cents, and then I'll give you the flower. That's how they do it in the stores."
Susie gave him the fifty-nine cents —all hot and sweaty from being clutched so tightly in her hand—and he put the beautiful white lily into her waiting arms. "Oh, thank you!" she said, and although she tried very hard not to cry—on account of what the lady had said about sniveling kids—the tears just brimmed up in her eyes.
Sometimes when you're happy, you just have to snivel! DURING the two-block walk to their home all her good intentions about keeping the lily until morning completely vanished.
What was the use, she argued, of Mommy having to stay sick any longer than was necessary? She carried it in and set it on the stand beside the bed, and Pudge shouted, '"S'prise! S'prise!"
Mommy pulled back the green tissue and looked at it. "Oh, how beautiful!" she said. "It's the loveliest flower I have ever seen!
Where on earth did you get it?": "It's magic, Mommy," Susie said, her black eyes snapping with excitement. "Touch it! It will make you well!" "Oh, no," Mommie said gently. "Flowers that are so fragile will die if they're touched." "But not this one," explained Susie earnestly. 'Then she stood first on one leg then the other while she told Mommy all about the Sunday School teacher and Christ and the purse and the soap contest and the young man and the lady who didn't want to marry him—and she explained how the lily was partly from the young man, too, because she and Pudge had only fifty-nine cents between them. As Mommy listened she started to cry.
Susie had known she would understand. "So now you can have your 'druthers', Mommy," Susie finished. "Now you can be well. 'Touch it, Mommy —then tomorrow we can go on a picnic." 7
Mommy's face was very white— almost as white as the lily.
Silently she prayed for faith as clear and as shining as that of her little girl. She prayed for wisdom that those trusting dark eyes might not be clouded with disbelief.
Slowly she reached out and touched a tiny white bud that was just opening. As she did so, her hand came in contact with something cold and hard.
Startled she looked more closely, and there around the tiniest bud was a diamond solitaire, twinkling and sparkling in the light—holding the promise of health and happiness!
Susie cocked her head to one side. "Can you walk now, Mommy?" she asked. "Walk?" echoed Pudge. "Not tonight," said Mommy, whose face had become almost transparent with the thrill of the miracle that had just taken place. "But very soon," she promised, "perhaps when school is out—" "And we can go on picnics?"
Susie asked, clapping her hands. "Yes, and to the zoo," Mommy RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, MAY - 297 answered, pinching Pudge's fat cheek. "How did Jesus make the flower magic, Mommy?" asked Susie thoughtfully. "He made it out of a child's faith and love and work and honesty," Mommy spoke very softly. "It is the most wonderful flower of all.