[Vol26 | May 1939 | Sequence: 29 | Category: Poem | Title: Article by Ida Peterson]

By Ida Peterson Beal
"WITHOUT practice there can be no interest, and without interest there can be no progress." Here indeed is a challenge! Our music directors must accept it. Ten minutes of the regular Relief Society meeting, except the first Tuesday of the month, have been given to choristers and organists for song practice time. Make these ten golden minutes pay a rich dividend in better singing and in a keener and deeper appreciation of our hymns and good music in general. In order to make them profitable the chorister and the organist must be united in their aims. The work for each Tuesday should be well planned. Be conversant with the songs you plan to teach. Choristers, know the words of the hymns so that you may have your eyes on the singers. Know the tempo and beat time correctly. Observe the marks of expression, emphasize them, and make them effective. Draw attention to the beauty of the words?they are sermons. Do not attempt too many songs for one practice. The organist should play the hymns without errors, giving a full rich tone so that the singers may hear the harmonies accurately. She, too, should observe carefully the marks of expression. Endeavor to have altos and sopranos well balanced. Stress proper posture and breathing?this is very essential. Never nag! Praise brings about better results. The personality of the chorister is felt by the singers. Give them the leadership they need, and the results will be very gratifying. Choristers and organists should study the Magazine carefully. A knowledge of the lesson material is important. It will give you the theme on which you base the selection of hymns for the day. Do not neglect this correlation; it has a definite place in your preparation. There is much good material in the Magazine for the instruction of music leaders. You must not fail your ward presidency. Your preparation for your ten minutes must be as painstaking and accurate as that manifested by the wide-awake class leaders. Your part is important, and in the great scheme of Relief Society you must establish the value of good music. It has been said that singing gives "tone" to the meeting. The ward presidency have confidence in your ability; do not disappoint them. Seek divine guidance, greet your opportunities and gratefully acknowledge your part in improving the glorious gift of song.
Magazine Department Belle S. Spafford, Chairman
MY CALLING