[Vol26 | May 1939 | Sequence: 31 | Category: Article | Title: Article by Edith Wilson]

By Edith Wilson WHEN I was called to work as Magazine agent in my ward, I felt very humble. Our percentage of subscriptions was low, and this was my first experience in selling. So before undertaking my work, I asked my Heavenly Father to bless me that I might be able to accomplish the thing which I had been called upon to do. It is very necessary to be orderly in keeping a record of subscribers. I have a book used only for this purpose. On one page are the names of those whose subscriptions begin in January, another page is for February, and so on through the year.
When it is nearly time for them to renew their subscriptions I remind them?early enough for them to put away the dollar. I watch for people who move into the ward and for new members and workers in the Relief Society. I try to become acquainted with them before I call at their homes. I try to learn what their interests are. When I call at the home I try to lead the sister to talk about her interests before I mention the Magazine.
Often there is some article in the Magazine that contains information on the very thing in which she is most interested. I appreciate having the visiting teachers speak of the value of the Magazine in the homes they visit.
Talks given in Relief Society and Sacrament meeting are of great help also.
Every non-subscriber has a reason for not taking the Magazine, so I try to prepare to meet every objection. For example, some people say, "I cannot afford to take it." I explain to them that it costs less than g cents a copy.
Some of the mothers tell me they are now taking too many magazines. I tell them this magazine is different because every one in the family will enjoy reading it. I suggest leaving one of my magazines in the home, saying I will call later for it. I find I get many subscriptions this way.
Where the mother is not a member of our Relief Society, and so feels she has no need of the Magazine, I explain about our Organization and also tell her about the contents of the Magazine.
Here again I leave a copy. I find that if she subscribes, she usually becomes a member of our Society sooner or later, and I feel this is real missionary work. I always get in touch with new subscribers and ask them if they are receiving their magazines and if they enjoy reading them. I often suggest some interesting article to them. I never feel discouraged if I fail to get a subscription the first time I call. I manage to call again and again and find it always pays. I try to make the sisters feel that they are not just paying out money for a periodical but that the Relief Society Magazine is really a messenger, sent to their homes to deliver a real, tangible blessing in the form of good will and valuable truths from our leaders who are inspired by the Lord. The address ?The Magazine a Medium For Growth" by Dorothy Clapp Robinson will appear in a later issue. General Session? Morning THE CHURCH OF MY CHOICE