Seventy-fifth Birthday Year Rosannah Cannon Irvine Iormer Member, Relief Society General Board (On June 1, 1947, the woman's periodical of the Church marked its seventy-fifth birthday, known as The Woman's Exponent until 1914 and thereafter called TheEd.) 66 HO can find a virtuous: \  woman? For her price is far above rubies... She stretcheth out her hand to the poor; yea, she reacheth forth her hands to the needy.... Strength and honour are her clothing.... Favor is deceitful, and beauty is vain; but a woman that feareth the Lord, she shall be praised. Give her of the fruit of her hands; and let her own works praise her in the gates." It is probable that the Prophet Joseph Smith was familiar with these passages from Proverbs. And it is more than likely that he had listened to the quietly insistent voices of the wives and mothers in the Church seeking an opportunity to share, in greater measure, the burdens and responsibilities of the organization of which they were members. Whatever the cause may have been, no one has ever doubted the. Wisdom and inspiration of the founding of the "Female Relief Society of Nauvoo" as a potent, working auxiliary to the Priesthood. In time this name was changed to the "Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints." Thirty years later, the need of this organization for an official medium to transmit instructions, news, and other matters of interest to the women of the Church became apparent. In this, as in so many other ways, Mormon women were leaders in progressive movements. It was then that the Woman's Exponent came into existence. It was the second woman's paper west of the Mississippi. Almost isolated from the rest of the world, having few of the modern means of communication, it is remarkable how this little sheet kept | abreast of the times. Besides reports and instructions, there were items of special interest, bits of local, national, and international news, household suggestions, home economics, training of children, hints on beauty, fashions, and good manners, poetry, humor. Wit, philosophy, and wisdom were in its contents, and, with it all, the charm and impressiveness of good literature. And there were advertisements of local products, even in those early issues of the Exponent. These attracted much attention. Many of them were amusing, and often the items advertised seemed so intriguing that one could wish they were on the market today. This co-operation with the merchants was a financial aid to the infant periodical, and helped to popularize the Exponent as well as the goods advertised. To the retrospective mind, reading the old volumes of the Woman's Exponent is an inspiration and a delight. To those who haven't access to the old volumes, there is a page of excerpts from the original numbers in the current Magazines. These give a fascinating insight into the intellectual activity and courage Page  LULA GREENE RICHARDS 1872-1877 1877-1914 FEMMELINE B. WELLS SUSA YOUNG GATES 1914-1922 EDITORS OF THE WOMAN'S PERIODICAL OF THE CHURCH of the early writers who twice monthly published this miniature newspaper. The following excerpts are representative: As we enter upon the rugged pathway of life, glowing with health and anticipation, what a bewildering panorama opens up before our eyes. To talk well and just enough is wisdom, an accomplishment possessed by few. Utah, in its Female Relief Societies, has the best trained benevolent institution of the age. Yet but little is known of the self-sacrificing labors of these Societies. In the Woman's Exponent, a department will be devoted to reports of their meetings and other matters of interest connected with their workings. Who are so able to speak for the women of Utah as the women themselves? It is better to represent ourselves than to be misrepresented by others. THE first editor of the Woman's Exponent, Mrs. Lula Greene Richards, was a poet, with a gentle, poetic soul. It must have required almost superhuman heroism and faith on her part to accept such a position of trust and responsibility as editor of this new periodical representing the women of her Church. It was a startling and almost unheard of adventure. Those who knew Mrs. Richards can readily understand the valorous character which lead her to accept the assignment. Contending with her inherent desire to yield obedience to any call from the Authorities, was her natural disposition, youth (she was only twentythree), inexperience, humility, and innate modesty. Soon after accepting the commission, she was married; and after five years as editor she had to resign because of increasing family cares. Mrs. Richards was succeeded by Mrs. Emmeline B. Wells, who had been her assistant for two years. Mrs. Wells was also a poet, a woman of exceptional intelligence, with a strong and pleasing personality. She was known, not only throughout America but also in Europe, for her rare ability, her culture, and her SEVENTY-FIFTH BIRTHDAY YEAR strong support of women's rights. One very interesting point in her career was that President Woodrow Wilson called to see her when he was in Salt Lake City. "Aunt Em," as she was affectionately called by friends and acquaintances, was as stalwart in spirit as she was fragile in appearance. As assistant and editor, Mrs. Wells was connected with the Exponent thirty-nine years. At the end of that time the publication of the Woman's Exponent was discontinued. When the pioneer magazine ceased publication, there came into being a small pamphlet called the "Relief Society Bulletin." There were twelve issues of this, and, in it, outlined lessons for use in the ward Societies were printed. At the end of the year, the larger, more completewas started. Mrs. Susa Young Gates, a daughter of President Young, was appoint-. Ed the new editor. She was very much like her father, forceful and capable. She had his quality of mind 653 in leadership and clear, progressive thinking. Many outstanding changes were made in the policies of the General Board while she was a member of that body. With her gift for writing, and her experience as former editor of the Young Woman's Journal, she brought to the Relief Society publication a strength and vigor characteristic of her nature. In her first editorial, Mrs. Gates announced the ideals of the Magazine: " We would make of this Magazine a beacon light of hope, beauty, and charity." Mrs. Amy Brown Lyman, who was largely responsible for the scheduled lessons, did the editorial work for one year following the resignation of Sister Gates. Since her labors along other lines were so heavy, however, she was not named as editor. RUDITE Miss Alice Louise Reynolds, professor of literature at the Brigham Young University, well beloved by those who knew her best, ALICE L. REYNOLDS MARY CONNELLY KIMBALL Ieee hear EDITORS OF THE WOMAN'S PERIODICAL OF THE CHURCH 654 BELLE S. SPAFFORD Ws] - YS EDITORS OF THE WOMAN'S PERIODICAL OF THE CHURCH followed Sister Gates as editor. She made a unique and valuable contribution to the General Board as well as to the Magazine. Her editorials were scintillating, illuminating, and informative. She was an ardent student of world. Affairs and a great traveler. Her mental hunger was as acute as the distress induc d by physical starvation. Twelve months of the seven and one half years she - was editor, she spent in Europe. In that time she sent to the Magazine each month an article on world affairs, interesting and educational. During the time of Miss Reynold's absence in Europe, sweet, gracious, artistic Mrs. Amy Whipple Evans assumed the duties of editor. When Miss Reynolds resigned as editor to devote her entire time to teaching in the Brigham Young University, Mrs. Mary Connelly Kimball became editor. Able, experienced, kindly Mrs. Kimball justified the expectations of her multitude of friends and associates. Mrs. Belle S. Spafford, who is now 1945 the General President of the Relief Society, followed Mrs. Kimball. Young and clever, trained under the tutelage of her predecessor, she filled the position with tact and ability, until called to her present high place. The present editor is Mrs. Marianne Clark Sharp. Combined with her own intelligence and individuality, she has inherited many of the good qualities of her parents; vitality and forcefulness from her father, gentility and sweetness from her mother. With these endowments, she cannot fail in making a success of her work. Through seventy-five years of its life, the Relief Society organ has affected the results the hopes, the faith, and the vision of its originators. It has evolved from the humble but valiant first issue of the Woman's Exponent to the compact, modern, enterprising Magazine of today. In keeping with the Latter-day Saint belief in eternal progression, some new features are constantly being added. SEVENTY -FIFTH BIRTHDAY YEAR Tt would be a difficult matter to separate the editorial work from the policies of the General Board. While each editor has put into her work much of her own personality, she has adhered strictly to the spirit of the Society. The editors, with the exception of Mrs. Richards, have all been General Board members. Being the official mouthpiece of the Gen. Eral Board, this priceless journal has expounded the decisions and policies of that body for the benefit of its readers, keeping them in keen awareness of the workings of the heads of their Society. AMONG the many progressive ideas put into effect by the General Board in their weekly meetings, the following two are worthy of note in connection with this article and its subject. As in the beginning, when the Exponent published much excellent poetry and special articles, through the years encouragement has been given to writers to contribute to the publication. Many new writers, with this opportunity, have developed embryonic talents and an appreciation for good literature. To further this valuable design, yearly prize poetry contests and short story contests have been added. These competitions afford an incentive to all Latter-day Saint girls and women to develop their powers of expressing their thoughts and emotions. 655 The contests have a tendency to develop mental energy and ambition, and have resulted in bringing forth many poems and stories of real merit which have been published in the Magazine. Through the years, the women's publication has been guided and directed by the General Presidents of Relief Society. They have met and advised with the editors constantly concerning the broad policies of the Magazine and lent their wisdom to necessary decisions. There is no truer saying than that, "The old order changeth." And while the present Magazine is vastly different from the Woman's Exponent, the high standards of the original have been maintained. But in many respects it has kept pace with its three quarters of a century age, its editors believing that "Where there is no vision the people perish." So now in its seventy-fifth birthday year, the official organ of the women of the Church is carrying on the work, progressing with the times, constantly seeing visions of future advancement, and stil] sustaining the ideals of its inception. It is a living, vital medium of inspiration and guidance to Latter-day Saint women throughout the world, a magazine of which every Relief Society woman, and in fact every Church member, has reason to be justly proud. VIGNETTE OF OCTOBER Ruby Baird Andersen October shouts of scarlet hills, And purple canyon walls, And ochre carpets under trees Where lavish glory falls,