Utah Entertains the Governors Edith S. Elliott Member, General Board of Relief Society HE State of Utah was honored with the privilege of acting as host for the annual governors' convention, July 14, 15, and 16 this Centennial year of 1947. The general business program was outlined by convention officials in Chicago, but to arrange for the social events of the conference, Governor Herbert B. Maw appointed his wife, Mrs. Florence B. Maw as general chairman, with the following women as *committee members: Mrs. R. B. Maw, Mrs. Robert Murray Stewart, Mrs. E. E. Ericksen, Mrs. George O. Elliott, and Mrs. Gus P. Backman. To the convention came the largest group of governors ever assembled in one of their conferences. There were representatives from forty-six states, plus the governors of the territories of Alaska, Hawaii, and Puerto Rico. In many instances, along with the governors came their wives and children, aides, secretaries, relatives, friends and the press. On Sunday evening, July 13, the governors and their parties were guests of the First Presidency of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints in a specially conducted tour of Temple Square. The friendly and efficient guides gave interesting information about the buildings and monuments and explained, briefly, Latter-day Saint doctrines. The guests seemed extremely interested, so much so, that many expressed appreciation for the experience and asked further questions concerning Page 656 the Church during their stay in the city. A religious service and concert sponsored by the Tabernacle Choir followed the tour of the Square. The governors' group occupied a section of seats in the center of the Tabernacle. Elder Lester F. Hewlett, as president of the Tabernacle Choir, served as chairman of the evening's service. Introductory remarks were made by Elder Richard L. Evans. The opening prayer was offered by President David O. McKay. A speech of welcome on behalf of the State of Utah was given by Governor Herbert B. Maw. President George Albert Smith then greeted the visitors on behalf of the Church, welcoming them to the Tabernacle and relating incidents relative to the Centennial. The Choir performed magnificently under the direction of J. Spencer Cornwall, with Alexander Schreiner at the console of the great organ. Miss Helen Traubel, Metropolitan soprano, was guest artist. To share a talent with others is a gracious act, and Miss Traubel did this with charm and friendliness. Her wonderful voice was appreciated by the many thousands assembled. Following the concert, the governors' groups and invited guests attended a formal reception given by Governor and Mrs. Maw at the Executive Mansion on East South Temple Street. This reception was the first social function of the convention. Governor and Mrs. Maw's hospitality and personal interest in UTAH ENTERTAINS THE GOVERNORS | each guest set the keynote for the days ahead. Programs were arranged for the children who had accompanied their parents. On Monday they were taken to the beautiful country homes of Mrs. Charles Allen and Mrs. R. W. Madsen in Cottonwood, where they enjoyed swimming in the crystal clear pools and a barbecue supper. Tuesday, the young folks were carried by bus into one of the nearby canyons for play and a picnic lunch. Wednesday, all of the children were again put into a bus and whisked out to Great Salt Lake where they enjoyed the uniqueness of a briny swim, a trip on a sailboat, and tasty refreshments. ONDAY morning in the Lafayette ballroom of the Hotel Utah, the business sessions of the governors' convention began. At noon, twelve hostesses, under the chairmanship of Mrs. Gus P. Backman, met the wives of the governors in the Hotel Utah lobby and took them by automobile to the Salt Lake Country Club for lunch. Here, at the foot of the rugged Wasatch mountains, the "first ladies" had their first "just ladies" party. The decorations were fuchsia gladioli. At each place, as a favor, was a rose pink ceramic lily. Mrs. Maw gave the welcoming speech with her usual charm of manner and gracious dignity. Each governor's wife was invited to introduce herself and tell some interesting, personal incident. Good, wholesome fun was the result, and a spirit of friendliness prevailed. The "Evans Sisters" furnished the music, which included a string quartet interspersed with vocal solos and duets. 657 On the way back to the Hotel Utah, which was the Salt Lake City home for most of the visitors, a tour was made of Liberty Park, the University of Utah campus, and the State Capitol building. At the Capitol, Mrs. C. Rosanne Gibbs displayed the "National Tapestry" which she has been sixteen years in assembling. The wife of each state governor has contributed a hand embroidered block, representative of her state, to make up this interesting project. Mrs. Henry Blood, wife of former Governor Blood, contributed the Utah block. The permanent home for the "Tapestry" will be the National Museum in Washington, D. C. J Monday evening the formal state dinner was held at the Hotel Utah. Tables were set in the Lafayette and Junior ballrooms, and on the mezzanine floor. State flags were the central theme for decorations. Mrs. Maw and the wives of the governors were seated immediately in front of the double 'tow of speakers' tables. Each one wore orchids a gift from the State of Utah. Invited guests found their places at the tables according to a printed seating plan. At a given moment the governors marched in and took their places at the speakers' tables. It was very impressive to see so many of the executive leaders of the states thus assembled. Following the banquet, the tables were Cleared away and chairs were arranged to allow the 600 guests to hear the specially prepared program. Host Governor Herbert B. Maw introduced each governor, in turn, to the invited guests, and told something interesting about each one. (Each governor was seated according to 658 Photograph, courtesy The Salt Lake Tribune GOVERNORS' LADIES IN FRONT OF FAMOUS "NATIONAL TAPESTRY" Utah State Capitol, July 14, 1947 Left to right: Mrs. Earl Warren of California; Mrs. Ernest Gruening of Alaska; Mrs. Millard F. Caldwell of Florida; Mrs. Herbert B. Maw of Utah. The sequence of his state's admission to the Union.) As each governor stood, his wife was invited to stand also, and both received welcoming applause from the audience. At the close of the introductions, Governor Maw asked his own lovely wife to stand, who was greeted with acclaim. Governor Millard F. Caldwell of Florida, chairman of the convention, made a few introductory remarks and introduced the speaker of the evening, Secretary of State George C. Marshall, who gave a brief resume of present world problems. TUESDAY morning before the business meeting began, gifts from the State of Utah were delivered to each governor. One of the gifts was a beautiful white virgin wool blanket bound with white satin and made of Utah wool. The second gift was a copper tray, made of Utah copper, designed by Rondo Hoglund and purchased at the Mormon Handicraft Gift Shop. During the noon hour, the "first ladies" attended the organ recital in the Tabernacle and heard Elder Alexander Schreiner play a program in their honor. In addition to the regular classical numbers and the typical Latter-day Saint hymns, he played a medley of state melodies which were appreciated by the listeners. Luncheon at the Lion House, one of President Brigham Young's homes, was next on the agenda. Mrs. E. E. Ericksen served as chairman of the novel affair, and was assisted by several hostesses, among them the women presidents of the auxiliaries of the Church. I repeat, it was a novel affair, because an old-fashioned theme was UTAH ENTERTAINS THE GOVERNORS carried out. The ladies were received in the parlors and then escorted upstairs to the large front room where Mrs. Maw gavea speech of welcome. There, they were fascinated to see the tables set as they used to be in pioneer times. Prairie and desert flowers with small cat's-tails, yarrow, sagebrush, and milkweed served as centerpieces. Spaced along the tables were antique caster sets. The dinner plates were turned upside down over the knives and forks, with the folded napkins on top, and the spoons were placed in spoon dishes along the tables. Relief Society President Belle S. Spafford asked the blessing on the food. The food for the entire luncheon was already on the table, steaming hot, in large bowls and platters. Each lady was invited to help herself and then pass the food on to her neighbor. Photograph, courtesy The salt Lake Tribune 659 And oh, what a menu! Creamed chicken and rice, mashed potatoes, lettuce salad, coleslaw, sliced tomatoes, pickled beets, corn on the cob, hot cinnamon rolls, "honest to goodness" old-fashioned lemonade, and layer cakes filled with jelly, covered with whipped cream, and placed high on quaint, glass-footed cake stands spaced down the length of the tables. The favors at each place were figurines of an adorable pioneer woman, designed by Marjorie Petersen, who explained, in a little talk, that the figure was that of her grandmother. A musical program was given by four ladies dressed in picturesque pioneer costumes, calling themselves the "Singing Grandmothers." They sang sweet old songs that caught the interest of all. At the conclusion of the luncheon, the governors arrived in time for a PIONEER LUNCHEON AT THE LION HOUSE July 15, 1947 Admiring the pioneer figurines, left to right: Mrs. Charles A. Robins of Idaho; Mrs. Thomas E. Dewey of New York; Mrs. Herbert B. Maw of Utah; Mrs. E. E. Ericksen, Chairman, Lion House Luncheon. 660 tour of the Lion House. After being served lemonade and cookies, they, with their wives, enjoyed the life story of the great colonizer and leader, and events which took place in the Lion House, as related by Rehan Spencer West and her sister, Jean Spencer Farr, both granddaughters of President Brigham Young, who acted as guides through the historic old building. Walking next door to the Church Office building, the distinguished group was received by President George Albert Smith and his two counselors, President J. Reuben Clark, Jr., and President David O. McKay, in the beautiful walnut and marble office in the north end of the building. After a short, friendly visit, the group was shown through the building, which had been attractively decorated with garden flowers by Mrs. Lillie C. Adams  of the Relief Society General Board. Following a very short rest, the visiting delegation, seated in open, convertible automobiles, took part in a "Parade of the Governors" through downtown Salt Lake City, then south and east to the home of President George Albert Smith at 1302 Yale Avenue, for a garden supper. Early in the year when President Smith learned, for a certainty, that the convention was coming to Utah, he sent a letter to Governor Maw inviting the guests to his home for dinner during their stay in Salt Lake City. He asked his two daughters and their husbands, Mr. And Mrs. Robert Murray Stewart and Mr. And Mrs. George O. Elliott, to plan the entertainment and remarked, "Our home isn't a palace such as some of the guests are used to, but it is clean, comfortable, and attractive, and the garden large and beautiful. 'The governors can go no place where they will be more genuinely welcome than in my humble home and its pleasant surroundings." And so, to the home of the President of the Church came the executives of the states and territories of the United States of America. President Smith's garden is informal and charming. There are spacious lawns set with flower beds or scalloped at the edges to permit shrub and flower borders. Large shade and ornamental trees invite rest and observation. Flowers of every color and kind vie with each other for prominence. Comfortable garden furniture is grouped in the shade of trees, on lawns and terraces, and along the cool banks of the spring fed creek. Paths leading down into the canyon retreat are bordered with scrub oak, iris, myrtle, Oregon grape, and wild lilies of the valley. "The Parade of the Governors" stopped in front of President Smith's home. The guests were met by a group of hosts and hostesses, relatives and close friends of the President and his family, and were shown through an opening in the huge sweetbrier rose hedge into a charming old-fashioned garden. Here, beneath a beautiful English walnut tree, stood President Smith and his two daughters and their husbands, to extend a hearty welcome to the governors and their parties. Host couples then directed the guests to the buffet tables. There were three of them, each thirty feet long,. Decorated with large, shiny South Sea Island leaves. The tables were a picture of beauty, laden with exquisitely arranged viands. Under Sogo Lites Like manna, Sago Likes proved to be God given, in extremity. They served a triple good: The bloom, to bf men souls, - The root, for food, The surety, that God foreseeing need Stretched forth His hand And scattered, seed. Vilate Raile STATE FLOWER OF UTAH A copy of this beautiful envelope containing sego lily seeds and painted in natural colors by Mary Moorehead, was presented to each guest at President Smith's reception. The poem is by Vilate Raile. UTAH ENTERTAINS THE GOVERNORS 661 662 the direction of Guy Toombes, manager of the Hotel Utah, Arnold and his efficient helpers had charge of tables and catering. The three-foot, stuffed, whole salmon was an eye catcher, as were the roast turkeys, baked hams, salads, relishes, olives, and celery curls, chilling in scooped out blocks of ice; hot orange bread rolls, and individual lemon chiffon pies. Fruit punch was served from smaller tables placed throughout the garden. The guests were seated at tables or were free to wander through the house and garden as they ate. Musical numbers were rendered by a quartet of young men who sang as they strolled about the garden. Typical of President Smith's love for ''scouting," he invited a patrol of scouts from his own ward to keep a bonfire burning down by the creek. The fire added cheer and warmth where the chilly air, rising from the water, calls for a bit of tempering even during the hot months of July and August. It had been the hope of the general committee that the governors could see a preview of the successful music drama "Promised Valley," but rehearsals and costuming were not far enough along to make this possible. So, as a "teaser," Dr. Lorin F. Wheelwright. Brought the chorus over, and they sang several of the popular numbers from the operetta. The guests were delighted with the sample and expressed regret at not being able to stay and see the finished production. Inasmuch as President Smith's party was a garden party, favors of beautifully packaged sego lily seeds were given each guest to take home and plant in his or her garden as a memento of the visit to the State of Utah. Miss Mary Moorehead furnished the painting of Utah's State flower, and Mrs. Vilate S. Raile, the poem, which were engraved on the front of the packets. Along with the lily-seed favors were given boxes of Cummings Studio chocolates by young girls dressed in bouffant garden formals. Added to all this beauty was the fairylike effect of flood lights and the result was a "thing of beauty and a joy forever." When the program was completed, the governors' parties were invited to re-enter their convertibles and were taken to the Centennial Exposition grounds for further entertainment. HE last session of the conference convened Wednesday morning, when the governors again assembled in the Lafayette ballroom. At noon, the ladies of the conference were taken to Pinecrest, in Emigration Canyon, for luncheon. The chairman for the affair was Mrs. Raymond B. Maw. She was assisted by several hostesses. On the way to the canyon, the cars took the route past the "This Is the Place" monument. This remarkable piece of sculpture was greatly admired by the ladies. At Pinecrest Inn, the tables in the dining room were decorated with covered wagons, sagebrush, and wild mountain flowers. Favors at each guest's place were little ceramic covered wagons. Mrs. Maw spoke a few words of welcome, after which a delicious luncheon was served. Mrs. Sterling Ercanbrack rose as the meal ended and told several humorous pioneer stories. Miss Becky Almond and Mrs. Virginia Freeze UTAH ENTERTAINS THE GOVERNORS Barker gave 4 musical skit about pioneer hats. The governors' wives enjoyed the cool of the canyon after the heat of the city. It seemed that even Mother Nature was eager to lend her talents to the occasion, because she sent a thunder shower, punctuated with flashes of lightning, for real mountain atmosphere. When it was time to leave for the city, however, the sun came out and the ride down the canyon was delightful. The last official party for the governors' groups was 4 Wednesday night dinner dance given by the Sons of the American Revolution at Hotel Utah's Starlite Gardens. The scenic outlook, alone, from the hotel roof, makes any occasion a success. Photograph, courtesy The Salt Lake Tribune PRESIDENT GEORGE ALBERT SMITH AND DAU 663 Dr. John Z. Brown, Chapter President of the Utah S. AR., greeted the guests. Mr. Harold Fabian was toastmaster. Responses were made by Governor Herbert B. Maw and convention chairman Governor Millard F. Caldwell of Florida. Governor Caldwell expressed appreciation for Utah hospitality and thanked all those who had made the convention an outstanding success in every way. Ie announced that the chairman for the next annual convention would be Governor Horace A. Hildreth of Maine. There was a deep note of sincerity in the thanks that accompanied the goodbyes and good wishes from the visitors to their Utah hosts, as 4 most successful convention came to a close. GHTERS GREET STATE EXECUTIVES At President Smith's home, July 15, 1947 Governor William Preston Lane, Jr. Of Maryland shakes hands with President Smith. The President's two daughters, Mrs. Robert Murray Stewart and Mrs. George O. Elliott, stand in the receiving line.