[Vol31 | May 1944 | Sequence: 05 | Category: Article | Title: Lissas Knowles]
Lissa's  Song 
Mar}^  Ek  KnowJes 
WHEN  Lissa  North  walked  up 
on  Sharon's  front  porch, 
Sharon  and  Eunice  quickly 
hid  something  behind  them  and  sat 
very  still  on  the  porch  swing,  their 
faces  flushed,  eyes  gazing  at  the  ceil- 
ing.   Then  Sharon  saw  who  it  was. 
"Oh,  it's  only  Lissa!"  she  laughed 
and  brought  out  the  vanity  scarf 
she  had  been  embroidering.  "Wc 
thought  it  was  my  mother.'" 
Fumice  sighed  with  adult  exas- 
peration as  she  bent  over  the  last 
rambler  rose  on  a  pillow  case.  Eunice 
was  red-haired  and  thin-faced.  She 
talked  in  a  high  shrill  voice.  'To- 
morrow is  Mother's  Day,  and  this  is 
the  last  chance  we  have  to  finish  our 
mothers'  presents  ..." 
Lissa  saw  Sharon  nudge  Eunice, 
but  Eunice  chattered  on,  "  .  .  .  have 
we  had  a  time.  To  keep  them  from 
finding  out,  I  mean.  You  know  how 
mothers  are,  Lissa,  and  ..." 
Lissa  stood  quite  still  before  them, 
a  slim,  brown-eyed  girl  in  a  plaid 
dress,  thick  dark  braids  hanging 
down  her  back.  Sudden  remember- 
ing was  a  sharp  pain  that  made  her 
face  go  white  beneath  the  sprink- 
ling of  freckles.  Last  year  she  had 
given  mother  a  sampler.  All  done 
in  cross  stitch,  God  Bless  Our 
Home.  She  had  gone  to  grand- 
mother's every  day  after  school  to 
work  on  it.  Daddy  had  framed  the 
sampler,  and  mother  had  hung  it  in 
her  bedroom.  ''I  want  to  see  it  the 
minute  I  open  my  eyes,"  she  had 
said.    "It  is  so  beautiful,  Lissa!" 
Sharon  took  a  cookie  from  the 
pocket  of  her  dress  and  held  it  out. 
Lissa  read    sympathy    in    her    blue 
eyes.  "Here's  a  cookie,  Lissa.  It's 
got  nuts  in  it." 
Lissa  said,  "Oh,  thanks,  Sharon!" 
She  sank  even  white  teeth  into  the 
cookie  and  it  was  like  cotton  in  her 
mouth. 
"Are  you  going  to  sing  in  church 
tomorrow?"  Eunice  scarcely  paused 
for  breath  between  sentences,  "Gee, 
I  wish  I  had  a  swell  voice  like  yours. 
You  can  reach  all  the  high  notes.  I 
can't  even  sing  above  E'.  And  you 
can  hit  high  C  just  as  easy.  Which 
song  are  you  going  to  sing,  Lissa?" 
"I'm  going  to  sing,  'Little  Moth- 
er.' "  Lissa  thought,  I  must  sing  be- 
cause I  promised  mother  I  would. 
But  can  I  do  it?  Tomorrow  she 
would  see  the  front  benches  filled 
with  mothers  all  smiling  and  pretty 
in  their  new  spring  hats.  Only  her 
mother  wouldn't  he  there.  There 
would  just  be  daddy  sitting  by  him- 
self. Would  the  notes  stick  in  her 
throat!  What  if  she  should  break 
down  and  cry  before  them  all! 
Tomorrow  was  the  day  that  was 
to  have  meant  so  much. 
"Mother,  they  have  asked  me  to 
sing  a  solo  for  Mother's  Day  pro- 
gram," she  had  told  her  mother  that 
day.  How  very  long  ago  it  seemed! 
"And  I'd  like  to.  But  I  just  couldn't. 
I'd  be  so  frightened." 
Mother  had  taken  Lissa  in  her 
arms  and  her  blue  eyes  had  been 
tender.  "Frightened!  Nonsense.  You 
are  going  to  sing  that  song,  you  are 
going  to  stand  up  there  and  let 
everyone  hear  what  I  hear  in  your 
voice.  I'll  help  you  learn  the  song. 
We'll  practice  every  day.  And 
you'll     give     a     real     performance. 
Page  263

264  RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE— MAY    1944 
J^romise  me,  Lissa.  No  matter  how  thought  came  to  her  that  grand- 
difficult  it  is,  that  you  will  sing—  mother's  house  was  nice.  It  was 
for  me  on  Mother's  Day."  big  and  substantial  and  quiet  with  a 
And  Lissa,  catching  her  mother's  scrubbed,  polished  stillness.    But  it 
enthusiasm,  had  promised,  "I'll  do  wasn't  home!  All  at  once  there  in  the 
it.  Mother.    I  will!"  high-ceilinged   room   with   its   dark 
But  that  had  been  almost  two  woodwork  and  starched  lace  cur- 
months  ago.  And  since  then —  tains  she  longed  for  the  house  on 
tears  welled  up  within  Lissa,  and  she  Hilltop  Drive  with  a  longing  that 
held  her  breath  until  the  tears  set-  brought  quick  tears  to  her  eyes.  She 
tied  in  a  soggy  lump  in  her  chest,  missed  the  silver  poplars,  and  the 
When  you  were  twelve,  you  were  a  view  of  the  city  at  night  from  the 
young  lady  and  you  didn't  cry  every  living  room  windows.  Oh,  she 
time  someone  looked  at  you.  You  wanted  to  go  home! 
ran  and  skated  and  played  hard  un-  We  could  hire  Mrs.  Taylor  to 
til  you  were  so  tired  you  didn't  have  keep  house  for  us.  Lissa's  heart  beat 
time  to  think,  and  you  fell  asleep  faster.  Then  I  could  have  my  own 
the  moment  your  head  touched  the  room,  and  I  could  listen  to  the  radio 
pillow.  And  you  pretended.  You  programs  without  having  grand- 
pretended  that  mother  was  away  on  father  say,  'Tm  reading  my  news- 
a  trip,  that  you  and  daddy  were  paper,  Lissa.  Turn  it  off."  And  I 
staying  with  grandmother  until  could  get  my  lovebirds,  Romeo  and 
mother  came  back.  But  tomorrow  Juliet,  from  Aunt  Grace.  Grand- 
there  would  be  no  pretending.  To-  mother's  tabbycat  would  eat  them 
morrow  was  her  day  and  she  wouldn't  here.  And  daddy  would  have  his 
be  there.  library  of  books.    Maybe  he'd  study 
Suddenly,  with  an  intensity  that  and  go  on  with  his  work.  And  things 
was  frightening,  Lissa  wanted  to  go  would  be  almost  as  they  used  to  be. 
to  her  mother,  to  stand  by  her  grave  Lissa's  heart    slowed    its  beating, 
and  talk  to  her.    She  could  not  bear  She  shook  her  head.    It  was  no  use. 
to  stay  here,  trying  to  act  as  if  every-  Daddy  wouldn't  go  back.    The  day 
thing  were  all  right.  of  mother's  funeral  he  had  turned 
She  said,  'Til  see  you  later,  Kids."  the  key  in  the  lock,  and  he'd  taken 
She  walked  down  the  steps  and  up  the  key  and  thrown  it  as  far  as  he 
the  street  half  a  block  to  grandmoth-  could  into  the    valley.     They    had 
er's  house    and    opened    the    front  come  here  to  live.    And  daddy  had 
door.      She    walked    through    the  changed  so.    For  days  at  a  time  he 
rooms      calling,       "Grandmother!"  stayed  in  his  room,  and  when  he  did 
There    was    no    answer.     She    re-  come  out,  he    just    sat  in    the  big 
mcmbered   then   that   grandmother  leather  chair  in  the  front  room,  his 
had  gone  to  town.    She  listened  for  shirt  soiled,  with  no  tie,  and  his  face 
daddy's  restless  pacing  in  the  room  needing  a  shave.     He  seldom  went 
above,  but  she  heard  nothing.  She  out,  and  then  he  drove  his  car  too 
was  glad.    She  couldn't  bear  to  talk  fast.     And  many  times  Lissa  would 
even  to  daddy  right  now.  waken  in  the  night  to  hear  daddy 
She  went  into  the  dining  room  to  pacing  back  and  forth, 
get  her  red  purse  off  the  buffet.  The  Lissa  knew  what  people  were  say-

LISSA'S  SONG 
265 
ing,  ''Oh,  yes,"  they  said.  "Paul 
North  is  brilhant,  all  right.  He  has 
the  makings  of  a  great  lawyer,  but 
he's  unstable.  Look  how  he  has 
gone  to  pieces  since  Anna's  death. 
Always  did  say  she  was  his  back- 
bone. Paul  North  is  finished, 
washed  up!" 
Lissa  knew  that  wasn't  true.  Dad- 
dy was  smart  and  wonderful  all  by 
himself.  It  was  just  that  daddy  had 
been  so  very  much  in  love  with 
mother,  and  her  death  had  been  so 
sudden.  If  only  daddy  can  get  over 
this  bad  spot,  Lissa  thought,  he'll 
be  all  right.  Someday  he'll  be  a 
great  statesman  just  as  mother 
dreamed  he  would  be. 
Lissa  wrote  a  note  telling  grand- 
mother she  would  be  back  soon;  she 
took  her  red  purse  and  left.  She 
missed  the  bus.  In  her  eagerness 
she  could  not  wait  for  another  one. 
She  broke  into  a  trot,  her  long 
braids  bobbing  up  and  down,  and 
then  she  slowed  to  a  fast  walk,  her 
breath  coming  fast  between  her 
teeth.  It  was  almost  a  mile  to  the 
cemetery,  and  by  the  time  she 
reached  there  it  was  early  evening 
and  her  legs  ached  from  hurrying. 
She  stood  for  a  hesitant  moment 
before  the  open  gate  with  its  arch- 
way of  wrought  iron  that  said, 
"Sherman  City  Cemetery,"  and 
she  remembered  that  other  time  she 
had  been  here— a  cold  day  in  March 
and  the  long  line  of  cars,  headlights 
shimmering  in  the  rain. 
Now  she  walked  slowly  through 
the  gate  and  the  only  sound  was  the 
wind  as  it  blew  through  the  trees 
that  bordered  the  main  road.  Lissa 
raised  her  head.  Why,  they  were 
silver  poplar  trees.  Silver  poplars 
had  been  her  mother's  favorite  tree. 
"Listen,   Lissa,"   she   would   say, 
"the  poplars  are  telling  a  story." 
"What  are  they  saying?" 
"Can't  you  hear?  Listen!  They 
are  telling  the  story  of  a  little  girl 
who  was  afraid  of  the  dark.  Imagine 
being  afraid  of  the  dark!"  Then 
mother  would  tell  the  most  wonder- 
ful story,  all  about  this  little  girl. 
And  as  Lissa  listened  she  could  feel 
the  warmth  and  friendliness  of  dark- 
ness. Or  the  story  would  be  about 
a  little  girl  who  cried  when  things 
went  wrong.  Strangely  enough  the 
little  girl  was  always  very  much  like 
Lissa. 
Lissa  winced.  Again  remember- 
ing was  sharp  pain.  It  would  come 
upon  her  suddenly,  piercing  the 
numbness. 
Lissa  walked  deeper  into  the  cem- 
etery. This  was  like  a  city  with  a 
main  street,  and  avenues,  and  street 
signs  and  everything.  A  city  of 
graves.  Mother  Jives  on  Third  Ave- 
nue in  the  middle  of  the  block. 
She  stood  by  her  mother's  grave, 
the  red  purse  clutched  tight  in  her 
hands.  "Mother,"  she  called  softly. 
She  listened  hard  for  an  answer. 
That  last  night  mother  had  prom- 
ised, "I'll  never  leave  you,  Lissa. 
Never!"  But  she  had,  she  had.  "Oh, 
Mother,  Mother!"  The  white  mar- 
ble headstone  swam  before  Lissa's 
eyes.  There  was  no  answer  but  the 
wind  wailing  through  the  poplars. 
Lissa  lifted  her  head  and  her 
breath  caught  in  her  throat.  All 
about  was  a  stillness  that  grew  and 
grew  until  she  could  hear  it  in  the 
pounding  of  her  heart.  Dark  shad- 
ows lengthened  and  stood  waiting. 
Lissa  brushed  the  tears  away  with 
a  trembling  hand.  "Mother!"  The 
name  was  a  frightened  whisper  now. 
The  trees  moaned,  "She's  dead, 
Lissa  .  .  .  she  can't  hear  you  .  .  ."