Sally Bush By Fay Ollerton FOUND this story of Sally Bush in an old diary in southern Utah. It was told by a woman who had been born on a farm near Little Pigeon Creek, Indiana just two years before Tom Lincoln, his wife Nancy, a daughter Sarah, and a boy Abe built their winter camp on the creek. Fourteen years the Lincolns lived on their Little Pigeon Creek land; the little girl across the county line was sixteen years of age when they moved away. She knew her neighbors, the "Linkuns" well; so well that years later in another pioneer land where the soil was neither black nor deep, but red sand on rocks, she ? told stories of neighbor "Linkun" and his family. Strangely, she who had seen him so often, never knew that the solemn boy who helped her father with the butchering, who passed her barefooted and silent in the summer woods, or sat near her in the Pigeon Creek church was Abraham Lincoln, the President martyred in far off Washington when she was struggling to build a second home in an arid land. She was too worn and isolated in southern Utah's Dixie to connect the lad with the martyr. This woman, married a Cragun, who was a follower of Brigham Young. Of her large family only one, a daughter Martha, preserved the family saga. In disposition, Martha Cox (by marriage) was not unlike Sally Bush. All her adult life she worked to help her children and those of her husband by another marriage. After she had conquered herself, she tried to help the desert children to gentler ways. She pioneered school teaching in Nevada when that state was a land of desperados and thwarted gold seekers. And she went into Mexico to help the children of a detach?d people. FOUND her diary this past year, three years after Martha fhad written her last entry in a wavering hand when she was a tired but still curious old woman. Near the beginning of her story?in the firm hand of youth, she wrote: "The Lincolns moved into Indiana and took a farm near my grandfather's. They were situated on the opposite sides of the county line. My mother told us stories of this lazy neighbor "Linkun" as she knew him. She sometimes referred to him as "Old lazy Linkun" whose children took parched corn to school for luncheons?Mother said that the "Linkun's" farm was left to grow up to blackberry vines and sumachs. She told us that he grew tired of the life of a' widower, borrowed a suit of clothes and a pair of boots from a friend who offered the loan, and went across the river into Kentucky, bringing home a wife who came under the impression that she was marrying a man who owned a farm and slaves. When she reached his home, a floorless, windowless hut and saw that his only servants were the thinly clothed children, her first thought was to return home. But as she gazed at the melancholy face and sockless feet of Nancy Lincoln's little boy, she rolled up her sleeves and said, 'I'll stay for the sake of this boy.' SALLY BUSH 83 "My mother never learned who the Lincolns were?and not until long years afterwards when I read the private life of Lincoln did I learn who were the originals of my mother's story, and that the sad faced boy who moved the heart of the stepmother was that of him who became the martyred President. I wish my mother had known it while she lived." Oh, Sally Bush! What a treasure trembled in the balance that day while you made your decision, and by it forever linked your name with that of the great President.