Lesson Department Work and Business SUGGESTIONS FOR WORK AND BUSINESS HIS time of year women begin to think about house cleaning and home renovating. The refinishing of floors, the painting of woodwork, walls and furniture have an important place in this planning. Any of these subjects would be fine for a demonstration or a talk in Work and Business meeting. From page 27-45 of Handicraft for Every Woman, instructions and suggestions for all this work are given. STORED away in almost every home one or more old wicker chairs can be found. They are not good enough to use as they are, but are too good to throw away. They have no equal for the porch or garden, and full instructions for the easy way of painting wicker can be found on pages 42-43 of "Handicrafts For Every Woman." Bright, bold-patterned cushions complete the effect. CONSUMER PROBLEMS Lesson VI TO market to market to buy a fat calorie." Only by means of long sustained experiments have the principles of a wholesome diet been laid down. Of course new truth is always being discovered and old pronouncements shaken, yet certain facts continue to uphold the family table. How to find one's way between food-fads on the one hand and exaggerations on the other, how to judge qualities in products, how to avoid Where to seek them, extravagance and yet try out valuable novelties and expend the food budget for wholesome, varied meals, are the essentials. Price has many complex elements in food industry. Fluctuation may be due chiefly to good or bad season of farm products, however, the locality, transportation, refrigeration, terminal facilities, complexity of sale organization, type of stores, kinds of service expected of dealer, type of food such as protein in form of choice meat instead of cheese or legumes, size of container selected, quantity bought at one time, special sales, grade and quality, whether bought in packages or in bulk, time and season of buying, the purpose for which used and storage enter into wise purchasing. For greater satisfaction and economy perishable foodstuffs which vary in price and quality more than any other should be personally selected. A visit to the market will often. Offer new suggestions for the menu. Telephoning an order however saves the housewife much time and energy and is permissible, for good buying, where the price and quality are standardized and where the grocer or butcher has been dealt with some time and may be trusted to fill customer's orders carefully. As a means of precaution and check up it is well to use the kitchen scales occasionally. It is better to buy by definite quantity. The shopper who asks for ten cents worth of this or that is really asking to be cheated. Quality should be stressed most in food buying. With canned and packaged foods the element of fluid buying makes it imperative that the industry is committed to sound practice LESSON DEPARTMENT that sanitation for factories and bakeries be enforced, that impurities and adulteration are ruled out by Pure Food and Drug Administration, all of which can better be done if Mrs. Buyer knows brands and labels and reads them carefully. Questions 1. Make a list of good rules to follow in buying fruit and vegetables, canned and packaged foods, and compare with your own buying habits. How does it score? 2. When is it economical to buy in large quantities? 3. Discuss advantages and disadvantages of packaged food as compared with those bought in bulk. 4. Do vitamins put into fancy containers have more value than the cheaper product bought from miller, farmer, or other producers? 5. Compare home and commercial canning. Which is the most economical? Why? CONSUMER PROBLEMS Lesson VII HEN ready money is scarce and the consumer needs or sometimes thinks she needs something very much she turns to credit. Ordinary expenditures are just ordinary and to a large extent are predictable. Every woman who has attempted to follow a planned budget in her own household knows that bills for rent, food, clothing, laundry, electricity, gas, etc., can be foreseen with some degree of accuracy but that unpredictable troubles develop from the "extras." It takes only one large bill for an emergency surgical operation to unbalance the best of budgets, and such a calamity may come suddenly no matter how carefully and faithfully health habits are observed. Accidents, sickness, death, birth, diminished savings, lost jobs, are hazards which are unforeseeable as to the time they strike, and they do strike most families at some time. If the reserves of all American families provided adequately for sudden needs, then savings, which is for use in just such emergencies could be as accurate as any other item in the budget. But the consumer must meet conditions as they are, and one of these conditions is a result of the amazing growth of installment buying which has become so woven into our present economic life. Whether desirable or not?and only the peculiar circumstances of each person or family can determine that?many do purchase goods on the installment plan. Despite the urge for economy, the high rate of interest, and difficult collection methods used by advertisers of "easy payment" ways, the time payment plan is taken for granted. This being true consumer credit should be used intelligently. Some credit men agree that installment buying is a sound financial investment when it is undertaken with due respect for the family income and when the charge for the accommodation is not too high. Haphazard installment buying is frowned on by all good economists. Before the consumer adopts this method of purchase and before entering into any contract she should as a matter of business know exactly what the carrying charge and rate of interest are. To be safe this plan should be considered as part of household budget and payments made to keep in pace with income so that temptation to buy is not more than can be afforded at one time. Questions 1. When in your opinion is it permissible or advisable to use the installment plan of buying? 2. What is meant by carrying charge? 3. Should your budget be taken into consideration when buying on the installment plan? 4. How much does this form of credit really cost? 5. Compare installment with other forms of credit as to rate of interest charged. 6. Can you afford to use this form of credit? CONSUMER'S PROBLEMS Lesson VIII THE modern trends in buying household textiles makes it imperative that the housewife looks well to her choosing. There has been an increase in use of cotton over silk, wool and linen. This may be due to increased variety and beauty, as well as price. Best grades of cotton are never as expensive as the same grade in other fabrics. Sales of best table linen damask have decreased and the use of rayon, celanese and other synthetic types have increased. Good linen damask is expensive at the outset but with proper care, wears a long time. Rayon in colors and patterns similar to those of linen may be had in many grades, some qualities, however, are as expensive as linen. Less expensive cloths may have rayon patterns on cotton background. The quality of all synthetic fabric is determined by the fineness of yarn, the twist, and closeness of weave. Lace cloths are among best sellers. The majority are cotton and machine made. Handmade linen laces are expensive. If the price is low even if claimed to be "linen handmade" it is well to be skeptical. Handmade filet may be distinguished by the knots at each intersection of mesh. Breakfast and lunch cloths, towels, curtains, stockings are made from various fibres, either separate or in combination, in many colors, sizes and prices. Clearness of fabric. Weight, length, elasticity or stretch at top and ankle, reinforcements, color, finish and size are some points to consider in choosing stockings. When all types of fabrics are considered it is evident that color has invaded the traditional stronghold of white and in some instances such as bed spreads has displaced it altogether. This increased use of color has brightened homes and in most cases beauty and harmony is the result, but it has had its drawbacks in the unstable dyes used. Towels of all kinds, bed spreads, blankets. Pillow cases, table cloths, napkins, have decreased somewhat in size, while sheets have increased in lengths. Although the price of some articles has been lower the past year the real cost has been higher because of the amount of material used. Questions 1. Compare your own habits of buying today with those of three years ago. Is it more practical? Do you get your money's worth? 2. What is meant by "irregulars," "seconds" and "full fashioned" in stocking manufacture? 3. Although sheer hosiery contains less silk, why is it often as expensive or more so than service weight? 4. What is the difference between silk and rayon stockings? CONSUMER'S PROBLEMS Lesson IX NO matter how well the housewife has done her purchasing, the life of the commodity bought may be long or short according to the kind of care given it. If silks, woolens, rayon wear out more quickly than they should it is possible that they have been washed in too hot water, with too strong soap, with too much friction or pressed with too hot an iron. Each kind of fabric or article has its own physical and chemical characteristics and must be treated accordingly. The reaction of solvents used and the handling are different with each fabric. Home laundering once considered a menial task has been dignified by home economics and industrial experts, the result of which increases the wearability of washable garments and household linens. With the greatest amount of care and the least amount of cleansing agents used it costs much to be clean. However, it is not economy to be stingy with soap. It is one of the most important aids in modern housekeeping. It is in almost constant use in every home. Consider then what it means to have available the right soap for a given job. All soaps are not alike. Some have in them certain ingredients that render them unsuitable for fabrics. Others have not the quality for making good suds. Still others require the use of strong arm methods to do their work. One advance in science of cleanliness is the manufacture of packaged soaps. Most of these come in flake beads and granules and can be used with safety on all washable articles. But not all packaged soaps are alike. Inferior varieties have crept into the market which the housewife should guard against for sake of her hands as well as for the fabrics. Flakes sold in bulk at low price should be scrutinized unless they are of a reliable brand and sold by a reputable dealer. Packaged soaps have not replaced the bar type but they make a solution and suds much quicker. The first requisite of good soap is its cleaning quality. Second, it must take out the dirt with minimum rubbing and effort. Third, it must clean without injury to hands or fabric. Thick closely-knit bubbles?the lasting kind?are sign of quality soap, while inferior ones make watery bubbles that quickly burst and disappear. Questions 1. Discuss the safest, most practical and most economical method of caring for such fabrics as silk, wool. Cotton, linen and rayon. How and why do they differ?