[Vol10 | February 1923 | Sequence: 09 | Category: Editorial | Title: Editorial - A Patriotic Duty]

EDITORIAL

RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
Business Manager - - - - - JEANNETTE A. HYDE Assistant Manager - - - - - Amy Brown Lyman
Room 20, Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah

A PATRIOTIC DUTY
Two holidays are observed in February, the 12th and 22nd respectively—the birthdays of Abraham Lincoln and George Washington. These two great American patriots served as Chief Magistrate of the United States in the two very critical periods of this Nation's history; Washington when the union was brought into existence, and Lincoln when that existence was threatened by a great civil war. The war for secession was designated by the voice of prophecy as "rebellion," not revolution, hence doomed to failure. Of the war for American independence, the prophetic voice had declared that the people forming this Nation were to be "delivered by the power of God out of the hands of all other nations," hence the beginning of this American Republic in the latter days.
The freedom of the United States from Great Britain came out of a "bondage" of oppression by the latter. But in the loss of this land they did get a new idea of non-oppression to dependencies, and it is history that since the American revolution Great Britain has not lost a single colony, but all stand patriotically with her.
Referring to history: Does it occur to our minds that on this American continent two great nations and peoples have perished—nations that were set up by the blessing of God, yet departed from his ways? Read the lesson in the Book of Mormon history of the Jaredites and the Nephites. What act was the inception of the overthrow of each of these peoples? It was the overturning of the form of government which the God of heaven had prescribed for them. Writing of secret or exclusive societies or combinations

which effected that overturn, the historian Moroni (Ether, chap 8) departs from making his abridgment of the record to say that "they have caused the destruction of this people of whom I am now speaking, and also the destruction of the people of Nephi;" and he adds a warning that the people of this Nation will face "overthrow and destruction" if similar combinations succeed in obtaining control of the people and property in this land.
Does the United States face in its history still another great crisis, as indicated by the prophetic words of the Prophet Moroni? And is the present the time when such crisis is at hand? Or, may there be now a deep-laid plan to overturn the form of government which God has prescribed for this land? Present occurrences ought to answer those queries very distinctly.
Let us see: In December, 1922, this official announcement to the National Congress, in Washington, was made by the Federal Bureau of Investigation: "Documents obtained during the past year clearly indicate that the communist internationale is behind a strong movement among negroes, labor unions, and various social and women's clubs, the ultimate purpose being to undermine those organizations, with a view of overthrowing the United States government and establishing dictatorship of the proletariat."
In the press report of resolutions adopted by the third internationale at Moscow, Russia, on December 1, 1922, in which the civil war resulting in the abolition of slavery in the United States was referred to as "capitalistic," it was announced of one of these series of resolutions: "The resolution, which was adopted without a dissenting vote, declares that the negro question has become a live issue in efforts toward a world revolution."
During the same month, Miss Alice Robertson, member of Congress from Oklahoma, issued this public statement: "Oklahoma didn't go Democratic; it went radical. I tremble for Oklahoma. There are very hard times ahead. All of us who try to do things with a respect for the Constitution and American institutions are subject to attack by radicals."
Also, in December, in New York City, meetings of the leading representatives of what is known as the "Workers' Party"—a political organization which claims a vast membership in the United States among the so-called "working classes" and embracing both industrial and agricultural laborers—openly announced that party's aim to be: "To create in the United States a soviet government, and establish the dictation of the proletariat."
Relative to government in this Nation, the Lord has declared (Doc. And Cov. 121:8): "I established the Constitution of this land by the hands of wise men whom I raised up unto this very purpose." Deliberate plans to overthrow the present United States government which was framed under Divine inspiration have reached so serious and menacing a stage that they cannot longer be safely ignored. In the crisis now clearly at hand, the line of duty for all Latter-day Saints is definitely marked. They have before them the example of patriotism in Washington and Lincoln and their compatriots. It will be well for them to follow this example, not alone because these great leaders were firm and fearless in behalf of the American Union, but also because of their sacred duty to uphold and defend that form of government which God has established in this age, for his Divine purposes. Nothing less than this is real patriotism for them, both as Americans and as Saints, women as well as men.
DUTY OF THE SAINTS TO SUSTAIN AND LIVE THE LAW
I endorse with all my heart this declaration (Doc. And Cov. 134) sustained by the unanimous vote of the general conference in 1835. I am convinced beyond the shadow of a doubt that it is the duty of every Latter-day Saint to sustain and live the law. I believe that every Latter-day Saint who has any idea in his or her heart that some law has been passed that is not a righteous law, after it has been fought out in the courts and has been decided, whatever the decision may be, by the highest tribunal of our great and glorious country, the Supreme Court of the United States, that it is his duty to obey such law. I believe that every Latter-day Saint—and by the way no man is a Latter-day Saint who drinks whisky—but any "Mormon" who drinks whisky today knows that he is in condemnation before the Lord Almighty, whether he is the one who bought the whisky, or whether he is simply a partaker of it. I believe that every Latter-day Saint owes it to himself to uphold and sustain what is known as the cigarette law, and I believe that we as a people should know by the announcement of every man who is to be elected to the legislature, that he will stand for that law, and if he will not so announce himself, if his opponent, no matter what his politics may be, will stand for that law, that we ought to bury our politics and vote for the man favoring the retaining and enforcing of the cigarette law. President Heber J. Grant, October, 1922, Conference.