[Vol10 | February 1923 | Sequence: 09 | Category: Guide | Title: Guide Lessons for April - Lesson I - Theology and Testimony]

Guide Lessons for April LESSON I Theology and Testimony (First Week in April) CARD PLAYING This lesson title may seem out of place as a name for a lesson on theology or religion, but any subject or theme which has been made a matter of consideration by direct revelation or by the inspired leaders of the Church, may with propriety be studied from a theological point of view, and the findings made to depend upon what revelation as well as science and philosophy has to say about the matter. With the Latter-day Saints idleness is not only unethical, but it is irreligious, because God has declared against it. The use of intoxicants is unethical, because it endangers the welfare of society; it is unlawful, because the state has legislated against it, making it a misdemeanor; it is sinful, because the word of the Lord written and spoken among us, is against intemperance. Our thesis in this lesson is: Card Playing should not be indulged in. And we will consider the reasons for our declaration under three heads—psychological or personal welfare reasons, social or public welfare reasons, theological or soul welfare reasons. Personal welfare or psychological reasons. 1. Any appetite that creates an excessive desire for itself is injurious to the individual, and card playing develops not only the habit but a craving for itself that results in the weakening of will and the loss of self-control in that particular direction. The chance element in the game keeps up a sort of mental exhilaration and so stimulates hope that it becomes abnormal. The card player, all unconscious of the fact, becomes an individual of luck instead of one of pluck. The recreation of card playing is a bad kind of recreation. The card player in many cases is literally dragged into a state of mind that makes a world of chance the most desirable one in which to live. He finds little or no joy in anything that is not bristling with hazard. Many men and some women will impulsively stake their all on some "chance." 2. Card playing interferes with individual culture. The language of the card table is coarse and generally low; the themes of conversation are as a rule not those of the elevative type. The times spent is more than wasted. Art and literature form little or no part of the dreams of the ardent card player. Card playing is not the recreative resort of big minds but rather the refuge of the small intellects. It is not the center of attraction for the lofty, but rather the rendezvous of the low. It therefore cuts one out of good company, even when one is alone. 3. Card playing injures one's reputation for honesty. An application for any position of honor or trust would be kept long on the waiting list if it were known that the applicant was addicted to card playing. Surety companies are wisely concerned about the habits of persons for whose integrity they become financially responsible, and the card player may well be considered an unsafe investment. Sociological Reasons:—l. Card playing cuts in the happiness of society; is the comcomitant of social iniquity, the adjunct of the saloon, the gambling den and the brothel. The hold-up, the burglar, the murderer, are, as a rule, trained at the card table. 2. Card playing lowers the social standards of society. Card clubs will beat the heaven out of any community that fosters them. Card "Bridge" first, and then comes the "Bridge of Sighs" in the family circle. 3. Card playing points to national decay. The nation notorious for cards and cigarettes has almost lost its power to think victory in anything, and our neighbor indulging in revolution after revolution owes her instablility to the gambling proclivities of her people. Her territory has become the home of laziness and the rendezvous of outlaws. Theological Reasons—1. Card playing is at best known as a vice; it is neither lovely, chaste, virtuous, nor of good report, and therefore excluded by the provisions of the 13th article of our faith. 2. Card playing has been and still is discountenanced by the authorities of the Church. President Brigham Young counseled and advised against it, denounced it, saying to the pioneers: "I would rather see in your hands the dirtiest things you could find on earth than a pack of cards," (See William Clayton's Journal, page 193.) His daughter, Susa Young Gates, states that he looked upon a pack of playing cards as the "Devil's Bible," fit only for the fire. President Joseph F. Smith is on record against card playing in most emphatic terms, counseling, pleading and warning. (See Gospel Doctrine, pp. 410 to 416.) The present leaders in the Church are no less pronounced in their disapproval of card playing than were their predecessors. 3. Card playing is incompatible with the Spirit of the Lord. 
 It lessens one's loyalty to our leaders and it leads to spiritual darkness, which is one of the greatest calamities that can come to an individual, a family, or community, or to a generation. QUESTIONS AND PROBLEMS 1. State the thesis or declaration of this lesson. 2. Of the three personal reasons given for not indulging in card playing which is the strongest? 3. Wherein does card playing start a young person off wrong?, 4. If card playing is not bad in and of itself, how are we to account for its being so attractive to lovers of evil? 5. Why do we never see card playing advertised in the press? 6. When we argue in favor of card playing what about our Church loyalty? 7. Quote President Brigham Young on handling cards.. 8. Give President Joseph F. Smith's estimate of a person who will encourage children to play cards. 9, Quote President Smith from last sentence on page 412, Gospel Doctrine. 10. Quote President Smith from first sentence second paragraph, page 413, Gospel Doctrine. 11. How would you prove to a young person that card playing lessens his chance to get a good position? 12. How does card playing affect one's leadership privileges in the Church? 13. Illustrate the following truth: The roads of gambling and Godliness run parallel to each other, but the travel on them is always in opposite directions. 14. How can the Relief Society 'best aid in eliminating the card playing evil? LESSON II Work and Business