BREAD AND THE BALLOT.

	Miss Susan B. Anthony took the stand,
and made an earnest and logical speech,
the subject being the relations between
"Bread and the ballot."
	Miss Anthony said w[-]man wants bread
not the ballot. It was usual with people as
long as they got all they wanted to be con-
tent. She cited the British workingman,
sketched his rise and progress from the
time when he never made a ripple on po-
litical thought down to the present, when
the franchise gives him the power behind
the throne. She said disfranchisement is
always political degradation to any class
affected by it—disfranchisement and degra-
dation being in politics synonymous terms.
The English mechanic and laborer who were
ground down and robbed by capitalists fifty
years ago mobbed their best friend, John
Bright, when he advocated the ballot for
them at a public meeting. They did not
want the ballot, they wanted bread.
	So woman may think she does not want
the ballot. Miss Anthony then proceeded
to show that parties and politicians show no
respect to any person or sex, color or condi-
tion, unless such person has power, power
to vote, power to control results, power to
influence elections, power to give success or
defeat to parties, to elect such persons to
office or to defeat them. She quoted Eng-
lishwomen voting at municipal elections,
and how the instinct of self preservation
makes party leaders court the laboring vote
here as there. Human nature is selfish. It
looks out for its own interests. It shows
favor to those upon whom it depends for
success. It is not magnanimity and gener-
osity that controls parties or men. Politics
and Republics are ungrateful. Self-interest
is the great incentive that yields homage to
the power of the workingman.
	The Grand old Democratic Party was the
party that early advocated the rights of the
workingman, of the poor man. Jefferson
opposed property qualification. Some per-
sons here perhaps are old enough to remem-
ber when a man could not vote unless he
was worth a certain amount of property.
Old Ben Franklin ridiculed this doctrine.
He said here is a man who owns a donkey
worth say $250. Because he owns this
property to-day he can vote. To-morrow
the donkey dies, and he can not vote. Was
it the man or the donkey who voted?
[Laughter.]
	Martin Van Buren advocated the right
of the poor man to vote. It was this posi-
tion toward the poor man that gave the
Democratic party its power. The word
Democrat meant opposed to aristocracy.
The Irishman, ere he left the green island
shore, was a Democrat, prepared to vote
the Democratic ticket because he was poor
and that party favored him, and ever since
that time the Democratic party has stood
ready to give him whatever he asked for,
because he had a vote and could give them
power and place and party success by his
vote.
	He wanted ten hours work for a day's
labor, and the Legislature gave it to him.
He wanted eight hours' labor to make a 
day's work and the Legislature gave it to
him, and so everything he demanded has
been at his service because he had a vote.
These votes gave the Democracy power un-
til they abandoned their record and showed
they had no real sympathy with the poor
man and the oppressed, by smiling and


[Column 1]
bending to the Irishman and consenting to
the degradation and oppression of the black
man.
	Then Democracy lost its prestige. Then
the Republican party, founded on the ruins
of the Whig party, stepped forward to
power, and the Republican party won suc-
cess by emancipating the black man, by be-
coming his friend, by giving him the ballot,
and this party, so long as it is true to its
professions, will have the vote of and the
affection and sympathy of the negro to
whom it gave liberty and the ballot.
	But it was all selfishness. The Republi-
can party did not love the negro. It was
his aid they were after, his ballot, his vote
and aid to give them victory and power.
Emancipation was not adopted as long as it
could be safely put off.
	Her description of the great change
which had taken place in the condition of the
colored race, and how much colored voters
are respected and loved by politicians since
they have the ballot power in their hands,
was vivid. She added that the wool of a 
negro is just as curly, the lip just as thick,
and the heel just as long as it ever was.
Yet these politicians see more beauty and
symmetry in them somehow—and how
would it be with the women voters? Why
these candidates for political honors would
no doubt, just before elections, imagine
they saw the wings just cropping out on 
them! [Applause.] The old masters of the 
negro now often address them thus: "Fel-
low-citizens, I thank you for the honor con-
ferred on me," etc. With what terms of
deference and endearment they will address
the female voters in the future is left for
that happy millennium to develop. [Ap-
plause.]
	She argued to show how necessary it is 
for the laboring men in this country to com-
bine together to command the respect of
politicians and capitalists. By this means
can labor maintain its dignity and self-
respect. And how essential for women to
participate in this power and means of self-
protection and preservation.
	Miss Anthony referred to the number of
women supporting themselves in this coun-
try: 300,000 engaged in farm work, half a 
million in domestic service, women at work
in factories and other employments, some
two millions outside of home life. For
these women she asked the ballot, to pro-
tect them in their wages. The women are
ready to join any political party that comes
to the front in behalf of woman suffrage.
Workmen who have the ballot must be con-
sulted. Miss Anthony resurrected dead
and gone conventions, sketched the Cali-
fornia mining strike and the Ohio railroad
strike to show the power the ballot gives
the laboring man. She gave the instance
of Gov. Hicks, of California, who aided the
capitalists to employ Chinamen in the mines.
He was defeated when next he ran and an-
other Governor elected.
	On the other hand Gov. Hayes waited for
official notice of mobs of laborers and work-
ing men—until the row was over—and lo!
he is President. Shrewd party men and
managers grant the position of working-
men, or make believe they do.
	The Grangers had revolutionized the 
western railroad system, reduced the fare,
and benefitted themselves. They had bal-
lots and used them to help themselves.
	The ignorant Irishman, the uneducated
foreigner, the benighted and almost bar-
barous negro have each been enfranchised.
They have been enabled to protect them-
selves by the ballot, but women, the moth-
ers, the wives, the sisters of our native-born
citizens, cultured, educated, the peer of

[Column 2]
their brothers, husbands and fathers, are
left to pay taxes without a voice to consent
or refuse, left to the grinding selfishness of
capitalists, the sport or the caprice or whim
of parties and legislatures who make laws
that control or oppress them and for whose
complaints and petitions they have no time
or inclination to listen. Women have no
votes. They can therefore make no im-
pression upon parties. Are women working
15 hours for a day's work in a factory? They
will ask in vain for a 10 or 8 hours law for
themselves. They have no vote to compel
the party to aid them. She quoted a strike
of women in a Troy, N. Y., collar factory,
who, after holding out for six months, were
at last obliged to go to work at less wages
than they had when they stopped work,
clearly demonstrating that the lack of the
ballot had caused this great injury.
	Justice demands that woman should have
the right to say if her property be taxed or 
not.
	Woman wants bread not the ballot, but
give her the ballot and she will vote her-
self an opportunity to get her bread.
	Give her the ballot and she will then hold
her share of public offices. Then some
delicate woman will sit at the office desk
while the yawning six footer will go out to
labor as he should at some work to develop
his manhood and strength. Women then
will sell papers of pins and yards of tape
and the tin whistles. Women will keep
the books. Women will then be in partner-
ship, will carry on the business. Wives of
laboring men and mechanics will then own
half the money that the husband earns.
	And not only will they do this, but when
women vote then whiskey will close its
reign, then will righteous laws be passed,
vice and crime be largely eliminated, taxes
reduced, honesty and economy obtain in
public affairs and justice be administered to
all. Miss Anthony gave some startling
facts proving that woman's work for tem-
perance, without the ballot, had in reality
been productive of injury to the cause of
temperance and had thrown increased
power in the hands of the liquor dealers.
She showed woman working without the 
ballot had thus killed the Prohibitory law
in Massachusetts, Local Option in Indiana,
drawn insults upon the 18,000 women of
Chicago who had opposed Sunday liquor
selling, and in Minnesota had created a for-
midable society of the liquor men, who in
one year expended a million of dollars to
defeat woman's work.
	She took a vote of the audience as to wo-
man's need of the ballot for the protection
of her wages, and in order to do effective
temperance work, receiving in reply a
hearty "aye."


