		PAROWAN, Feb. 12, 1879.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	We feel it our duty to let our voices be heard
in these eventful times, when Satan is labor-
ing incessantly to destroy the kingdom of God,
for he understands that his reign is short, and
that the coming of the son of man draweth
nigh. Our enemies do not understand that it
is the God of heaven they are fighting against,
and if an angel from heaven should declare it
unto them, they would think some evil spirit
had possession of their senses. How true the
saying that  :darkness covers the earth and
gross darkness the minds of the people". We
wish to add our testimony to the thousands
who have already published the same, that
this is the work of the Lord, and that Joseph
Smith was a true Prophet, and that this People
are carrying out the work he began. Plural
Marriage is a part of our religion, and we will
defend it and every other principle of our faith
with our latest breath. We are willing to
obey the true laws of the land. We love the
name of Washington, and the names of the
framers of the Declaration of Independence,
and every true born son or daughter of Ameri-
ca loves Freedom and Liberty.
	Our R. S. met on the 1st Thursday of the
present month, and one sister read the inter-
view between Pres. John Taylor and Mr. Hol-
lister, after which as many of the sisters as
time would admit of, spoke and bore strong
testimonies of this work; of Celestial Marriage,
and of the true and noble spirit manifested
throughout the interview by our beloved Pres-
ident. And we pray that his days may be
lengthened out upon the earth, that be may
accomplish all the good his heart desires.
	We hold in high esteem our sisters who are
filled with the spirit of our religion, who have
so ably represented us in the Capitol of our
Nation. We pray that they may be blessed and
prospered in all they undertake in righteous-
ness, and also that God will bless all of his
faithful hand-maidens who are striving to
elevate and bless mankind, and may we all
fully appreciate our families and homes is the
earnest desire of your sisters,
		EMMA S. SMITH, Pres. R. S.
