				BABIES.

	In reading the daily newspapers and pe-
rusing the annals of crime, we find that in-
fanticide, with its kindred evils, is increas-
ing to an alarming extent both in the Old
and New World, and until the causes which
produce these terrible results are removed,
I fear there is little hope for a better state
of things. O virtue! chastity! thou crown-
ing beauty and glory of woman, why have
so many of earth's fair daughters suffered
themselves to be robbed of thee? Deeply
is the loss to be deplored. What is life
without virtue and honor? When the first
step is taken, who can tell where it will
stop? leading on from bad to worse, until
the victim is left to commit the most hein-
ous and revolting crimes, and the once
happy and confiding young girl becomes
guilty of that which is too dreadful to name
—the shedding of innocent blood. Oh!
horror of horrors! Only to think that a 
woman could ever become so degraded, so
lost to every feeling of a mother, as to take
the life of the innocent, helpless creature
whom she herself has brought into the
world, and whose very helplessness should
insure it against injury, even in its mildest
form. This is too revolting to think of, and
yet, who shall condemn? Who among the 
multitude (so clamorous and indignant)
shall cast the first stone? "He who is with-
out sin," the Savior said. This is indeed
just, for who is there that is capable of sit-
ting in judgment on those who have been
cruelly betrayed and abandoned, when they
know not the impassioned emotions of the
trusting heart, nor the circumstances which
have driven the victim to desperation.
	Besides these extreme cases of violence,
there are others of wilful neglect. We
read of infants and young children being
left alone in a house, while parents are out
visiting, who on their return found the
house in ashes and the children perished.
And coming nearer home, even to our own
little city of St. George, we find one or two
cases where mothers are scarcely worthy of
that sweet and holy name. But then we
should forbear to censure too severely, as
theory is much easier than practice, and we

[Column 2]
all know better; though I maintain that a
woman's first duty is to watch over those
helpless little treasures whom God has en-
trusted to her care. Children are indeed a
comfort and a blessing. What can exceed
the joy of the honorable wife when she
takes her new-born babe in her arms? Her
whole heart goes out to the little creature,
and she feels amply repaid for all her suf-
fering; how interestedly she watches every
movement, through the different stages of 
its infancy; how eagerly she listens for the
first word from its lips, and watches for its
first timid step, and until they increase to
the almost incessant prattle of the tongue
and the busy patter of the little feet. Is
there anything sweeter, dearer, more inter-
esting or lovable than a sweet, clean, inno-
cent babe? Methinks the heart of every
true mother will answer, Nothing. Is there
anything that can replace or for which we
would exchange them? No! emphatically
NO! Of course there are exceptions to this
as to all general rules; there are some
whom trifling circumstances will cause to
yield up their offspring to the care of stran-
gers, though, thank the Lord, in our com-
munity these cases are few and far between.
Then let us try to raise our little ones so
that they will be a credit to us and the
kingdom of God when they arrive at ma-
turity. Thus our greatest earthly blessings
will certainly prove to be our babies, the 
proverbial aversion of bachelors and old
maids, and their unchangeable opinions to
the contrary notwithstanding.

	St. George.					KATE.


