			WHAT I SAW.

	As I was walking the streets one day I 
saw a sight, a striking sight! It was a poor
old man stooped and gray. But oh! what a 
pitiable looking object! He was so intoxi-
cated that as he walked along the sidewalk
he swerved from side to side, and it was all
he could do to keep his balance. I expect
if his history was known, he is a father and
a grandfather, and most likely was a man
of influence.
	Oh! what an example to set before the 
rising generation! This sight I shall never
forget! As he seemed to be getting worse,
there came a buoyant youth, just from his
day's work, tripping along. He at first past
the man to be pitied, then turned suddenly
around, and went back to where the man
was tottering ready to fall. He kindly of-
fered him his arm, but the old man was too
far overcome to know what the kind heart-
ed boy wanted of him, so the boy took the
aged hand and put it on his arm, and after
a good deal of persuasion he got him to 
trudge along with him, most likely to his
home, yes a most wretched place, with a 
broken-hearted wife and hungry children.
I shall never forget this kind act of that
noble young man. How proud a mother
ought to be when her sons try to be kind
to the aged. But oh! strange, yes passing
strange, that God's creatures here below,
cannot learn from such lessons to shun the 
poison that causes many a poor mother's 
heart to throb with sorrow, and which
hastens loving wives to an untimely grave.
Their hearts were full of pain with the
thoughts of one that they had loved, and


pictured a happy life with, through time,
and all eternity, to go down to a drunkard's
grave, and their children to be taunted
with his disgraceful name. His name
might have been remembered for good, if
he had taken the right course. His happy
household has beer scattered and broken.
Disgrace has come where once was peace,
joy, love, and comfort. Where is his hap-
py innocence?
	The youth takes a glass, and then follows
one glass after another, not once thinking
what the result will be until he ruins him-
self body and soul, his home and all that
makes life pleasant and agreeable.
	Boys, you know not what dangerous
ground you are treading on. If I had a 
voice like the thunder and as keen as the
lightning to pierce every heart to the core
I would say, "touch not, taste not," for how
can men expect to enjoy the spirit of God,
and have his blessings to guide and direct
them, if they give themselves up to such a 
debasing habit. Why cannot the boys take
warning before it is too late?
	Not one of the young ladies should
choose a husband that had contracted any
such habit, or that would be likely to dis-
grace his name in such a degrading way.
					JULIA SPENCER.
	Salt Lake City.


[Column 1]
						For the EXPONENT
