ITEMS OF THE GOSHEN PRIMARY
ASSOCIATION.
	A little party and meeting was held in
the schoolhouse at Goshen on Thursday,
April 17. Bishop Wm. Price was present,
with some unexpected visitors from Santa-
quin, whom we were pleased to see. The
meeting was opened by singing, and prayer
by our Bishop. Singing, "Don't think
there is nothing for children to do." Bish-
op Price then addressed the children, mak-
ing appropriate remarks which were very
gratifying to those who preside as well as
to the members. Sister Louisa Taylor
made some suitable remarks, and Bro. Stick-
ney, of Santaquin, likewise spoke to the
comprehension of the little folks. Several
of the children then recited pieces, after
which their President, Sarah Roberts, di-
rected them through a series of exercises,
and questioned them upon what we had
taught them, to which they creditably re-
sponded. The meeting then closed by
siuging and benediction. The President
then arranged the children by two, and 
marched them to the new Society House
close by, where they were surprised by the
sight of buns, tarts, candy and good things
neatly arranged upon low tables, to which
they were seated; Bishop Price asked the
blessing, and while they partook of the
feast prepared, showed them the necessity
of having their names enrolled, so
they could partake of the feast, and nar-
rated the history of the Supper of the
Great Bridegroom. We had a large attend-
ance that day, and several came who never
attended the meeting before; as a large
supply of refreshments was made there was
abundance for all, also for some aged per-
sons and sick people. The children then


dispersed outside and ran races, &c., and at
an early hour they were finally dismissed.
Ever desiring the interest of Primary As-
sociations, with love we are your sisters in
the Gospel,
			SARAH ROBERTS, Pres't.
			M. A TILL, Sec'y.


THE April number W. S. J. Manchester
states that the smallest division that has
been recorded since 1870 took place on
March 7th, when Mr. Courtneys resolution
was rejected by 217 votes to 103. Majority
114. In the majority by which the motion
was defeated were 107 Conservatives, in-
cluding 24 members of the Governments, 6
Home Rulers, and 64 Liberals. The mi-
nority comprised of 62 Liberals, 29 Con-
servatives, and 12 Home Rulers.
	There were many excellent speechei on
this question while it was before the House
which we will perhaps make extracts from
soon. Suffice to say the woman question
is at present being successfully agitated.


