HOME AFFAIRS.

	DR. ROMANIA B. Pratt will open a class in
Obstetrics and the training of nurses, on Mon-
day, 5th inst., to continue Mondays and Thurs-
days for six months, at her office in the Old
Constitution Buildings.
	DURING THE last month Pres. E. R. Snow
has organized Primary Associations in the 1st,
2d, 12th, 13th and 20th wards of this city. Also
re-organized the Young Ladies' M. I. A. of the
2d Ward. 
	AT THE Territorial Fair which will be held
October next, it is expected there will be
great many prizes distributed to those who pro-
duce the best articles of home manufacture.
Ladies, if you wish to work for this, do your
best in useful, ornamental, or elegant work;
with all kinds of materials used in such articles.

	AT THE General Meeting of the sisters in
the Fourteenth Ward, Saturday, April 26, the
officers of the Silk Association of Salt Lake
Co. were sustained in their positions, and Bro.
Paul A. Schettler was elected as a committee
to judge of the quality of cocoons. The officers
of Relief Society agreed to act as committees
to see that all the mulberry leaves in their vi-
cinity were utilized to the best advantage.
	THE THEATRE has been rendered attractive
of late by the H. M. S. Pinafore, which has
been performed several times, the performance
being entir[-]ly composed of home talent, di-
rected by Prof. Careless. He certainly deserves
all the e[-]comiums he has received. Mrs.
Sigel, Miss White, Miss Olsen, Miss Sanders,
and several of the gentlemen also played and 
sang remarkable well Although the opera
was well performed in every part, so every-
body says; "and what everybody says must be
true.
	"A MESSENGER from Jarvis Section" was
quite sensational, but very funny. "Uncle
Daniel" was really a true Yankee in style and
in tone, and little "Clip" acted her part per-
fectly.


WE HAD the honor of attending a pleasant
entertainment on Thursday last, at the resi-
dence of Mrs. Mary Emma Van Schooven.
The hostess had prepared a delicious repast for
her guests, the occasion being the close of the
term of a class in Obstetrics taught by Dr. Ro-
mania B. Pratt, a young and rising physician,
a favorite with her students it would seem,
who all united in presenting her with an ele-
gant pencil and cuff-pins of gold and jet. Dr.
Pratt, though taken by surprise, replied grace-
fully, expressing her good feelings for all the
class, and her ardent desire to aid them and to
honor the profession in which she had enlisted
	IN COMPANY with Pres. E. R. Snow we at-
tended the Annual meeting of the Relief So-
ciety of Davis Co., in Farmington, April 17.
The reports from branch societies were very
satisfactory, and everything was conducted in
an orderly manner, Mrs. S. I. Holmes presid-
ing. Elder Anson Call was present and made
some remarks so favorable to the woman ques-
tion that we shall take pains to publish them
with a full account of the meeting. The Presi-
dents of societies made excellent verbal reports.
Pres. E. R. Snow assisted Coun. Call and the
presidency of Relief Society in organizing a
branch Silk Association in Davis Co., Mrs. Do-
rinda Robinson, President; Nancy A. Clark
and Jane Smith, Counselors. A large majority
of the sisters enrolled their names as active
workers.


