EDITORIAL NOTES.

	WE SHALL be compelled to confine our col-
umns in future exclusively to Stake reports of
R. S and Y. L. M. I. A., except where the R.
S. Stakes have not been organized. These will
report as before.

	WE HAVE R. S. Reports from Samaria, Ma-
lad, Franklin, Hebron, Minersville, Kingston,
Lewiston and Ephraim; Primary Association
reports from Santaquin, 16th Ward S. L. City.
Letters from Santa Clara, St. George, Goshen
and other places, which we intend publishing.

	MASS MEETINGS have been held by the sis-
ters in nearly all the settlements great and
small in Utah Territory, to protest against the
Adti-Polygamy petitions, letters to Mrs.
Hayes, &c., and to defend one of the vital
principles of the Gospel, viz., Celestial Mar-
riage. It is impossible to publish them all. It
is specially gratifying to know that there is a
united feeling on this subject throughout the
entire Church. At Hyrum, Woodruff, Clark-
ston, Wallsburg, Midway, Tooele, these meet-
ings have all been spirited and interesting, and
the sisters in their respective localities have
either adopted the resolutions passed in Salt
Lake City or have drawn up resolutions corres-
ponding in every respect with the spirit and
sentiment therein expressed.

	WE PUBLISH in this issue an item on the
celebration of Mrs. M. A. Smoot's Surprise
Party on her birthday, and we would not wish
our dear friends, sisters and patrons to think
we were unmindful of any good sister's "Birth-
day Party," so will inform them we have in
our desk many such tributes, which we would
gladly publish,—Mrs. Louisa B Pratt's of
Beaver, Mrs. Sarah M. Peterson's of Ephraim,
Mrs. Martha J. Thomas' of Lehi. We will
mention in connection with this fact, we did
not give our readers any account of the party
held at our own house in honor of Sister E. A.
Whitney, well known to nearly all the Saints
from the days of Kirtland, nor to that of Mrs.
Zina D. Young, held at the residence of Mrs.
B. W. Smith, nor of Mrs. M. I. Horne, Presi-


dent of R. S. S. L. Stake of Zion, nor of Pres.
Rachel R. Grant or Elizabeth H. Goddard, and
many other good sisters, simply because it is
utterly impossible to mention all these things
unless we had a daily paper.


