EDITOR EXPONENT:

	In reading Elder Woodruff's Epistle to
the saints, I was very much pleased with
the spirit that it breathed. "Do right let
the consequence follow" brought forcibly
to my mind the narrative of the Jewish
Mother and her sons, as stated in the Tal-
mud, of which the following is an extract.
"During the terrible times which followed
the fall of the Holy City, Hannah and her
seven sons were cast into prison.
	According to their ages they were brought
before the tyrant conqueror, and command-
ed to pay homage to him and his gods "God
forbid" exclaimed the eldest lad, "that I
should bow to thy image. Our command-
ments say to us, 'I am the Lord thy God' to

[Column 2]
no other will I bow." He was immediately
led out to execution, and the same demand
was made of his brother, the second son.
"My brother bowed not" he answered "and
no more will I." "Wherefore not?" asked
the tyrant. "Because" replied the lad, "the
second commandment of the Decalogue tells
us, 'thou shalt have no other God but me."
His death followed immediately his brave
words.
	"My religion teaches me 'Thou shalt wor-
ship no other God" (Ex, xxxiv: 14) said the
third son, "and I welcome the fate accord-
ed to my brothers rather than bow to thee
or thy images."
	The same homage was demanded of the
fourth son, but brave and faithful as his
brothers, he replied, "He that sacrificeth
unto any God save unto the Lord only (Ex.
xxii: 20) and was slain pitilessly. "Hear
O Israel! the Lord our God, the Lord is
One!" exclaimed the fifth lad, yielding up
his young life with the watch-word of
Israel's hosts.
	"Why art thou so obstinate" was asked
of the sixth brother, when he too, was
brought before the tyrant and scorned the
propositions made him.
	"The Lord thy God is in the midst of
thee, a mighty and a terrible God" (Deut.
vii: 21) he said; and died for the principles
he proclaimed.
	Then the seventh and youngest boy was
brought before the murderer of his rela-
tives, who addressed him kindly, saying,
"my son, come bow before my gods." And
the child answered. "God forbid! Our holy
religion teaches us 'Know therefore this
day, and reflect in thy heart that the Lord
he is God, in the heavens above and on the
earth beneath, there is none else;' (Deut. iv:
39.) Never will we exchange our God for
any other, neither will he exchange us for
any other nation, for as it is written, Thou
hast this day acknowledged the Lord, and
the Lord hath acknowledged thee this day,
that thou art a peculiar people!"
	Still the tyrant spoke smoothly and with
kind words.
	"Thou art young" he said; "thou hast
seen but little of the pleasures of this life,
not as much as has fallen to the portion of
thy brethren. Do as I wish thee and thy
future shall be bright and happy,"
	"The Lord will reign for ever and ever,"
said the lad; "thy nation and thy kingdom
will be destroyed; thou art here to-day, to-
morrow in the grave; to-day elevated to-
morrow lowly; but the Most High One en-
dures for ever."
	"See" continued the other, "thy brothers
lie slain before thee; their fate will be
thine if thou refuseth to do as I desire;
see I will cast my ring to the ground, stoop
thou and pick it up: that I will consider
allegiance to my gods-"
	"Thinkest thou that I fear thy threats!"
returned the unterrified lad; "why should
I fear a human being more than the great
God the King of kings?"
	"Where and what is thy God?" asked
the oppressor; "is there a God in the world?
"Can there be a world without a creator?"
replied the youth. "Of thy gods 'tis said,
mouths they have but speak not: of our
God the psalmist says 'By the word of the
Lord were the heavens made.' Thy gods
have eyes but they see not; but the eyes of
the Lord run to and fro in the whole earth.
Thy gods have ears, but they hear not; but
of our God 'tis written, 'The Lord heark-
ened and heard; of thy god 'tis said s nose
they have but smell not; while our God
smelled the sweet savor; hands have thy
gods but they touch not; while our God
says, 'My hand hat[-] also founded the


earth,' of thy gods 'tis written feet they
have but walk not. while Zachariah tells us
of our God, 'His feet will stand that day
upon the Mount of Olives."
	"Then" said the cruel one; "if thy God
hath all these attributes why does he not
deliver thee from my power."
	The lad replied; "He delivered Chanan-
yah and his companions from the power of
Nebuchadnezzar, but they were righteous
men, and Nebuchadnezzar was a king de-
serving of seeing a miracle performed, but
for me, alas I am not worthy of redemp-
tion, neither art thou worthy of the demo-
stration of God's power."
	"Let the lad be slain as were his bro-
thers," commanded the tyrant.
	Then spoke the mother of the boys: "Give
me my child" she cried, "Oh cruel king,
let me fold him in my arms ere thou des-
troyest his innocent young life!" she threw
her arms around the lad, clasping him
tightly to her bosom, and pressed her lips
to his. "Take my life!,' she cried "kill
me first before my child,"
	"Nay" he answered, scoffingly, "I can-
not do it, for thy own laws forbid; whether
it be ox, or sheep ye shall not kill it and its
young in one day" (Lev. 27)
	"Oh, woe to thee" replied the mother,
"thou who art so particular to regard the
laws. Then pressing her boy to her heart,
"go my dear one, she said, "say to Abra-
ham, that my sacrifice hath exceeded his.
He built one altar whereon to sacrifice
Isaac; thy mother hath built seven altars,
and sacrificed seven Isaac's in one day. He
was but tempted thy mother performed."
	After the execution of her last son she
became insane, and fell from her house-top.
Where she fell she expired.
