WOMAN AGAINST WOMAN.

	"He that would live clear of envy must lay
his finger on his mouth, and keep his hand out
of the ink-pot."—LE ESTRANGE.

	This was applied to men in that day, but it
will certainly apply to women equally as well.
This is woman's era, and of course she will be
criticized, censured, sneered at, even by her
own sex. After all it is expected--women pos-
sessing more humility than men, more delicacy
of nature and true refinement of soul, more
spirituality in fact, will scarcely stoop to perse-
cution. Yet even this we find to be the case;
cruel as the grave. Pope said,

		"The world with calumny abounds,
		The whitest virtue slander wounds."

	It is well that persons of greatness of soul
possess the peculiar faculty, or tact, to judge of
those with whom they come in contact, other-
wise they might be prejudiced against the in-
nocent and good by evil-designing people.
	It seems to have been peculiarly the fate of
Mormons to be slandered, but until recently it
was confined to men mostly, Mormon women
being considered too low, degraded and igno-
rant, otherwise they certainly would not live
in plural marriage.
	Now a change has come. The franchise has
been given to Mormon women, they have been
heard from, and as they will not give up the
principles of their religion, which they know 
to be elevating and pure, they must needs be
scandalized. And because a few noble-souled
ladies who are working for universal good, as
we understand it, have dared to allow Mormon
women to come into their councils, and sit on
a public platform with them, a great many ex-
planations must be made for them, lest the
National Woman Suffrage Association should
be understood as endorsing Polygamy.
	After the women of Utah have held the
ballot ten years, and with the best possible re-
sults, they are to have no representation. "Tell
it not in Gath, publish it not in the streets of
Askelon," that Mormon women vote, or have
any education, or culture. Oh, no, don't
come near a Mormon woman, she's a plural
wife, or at any rate believes in it, and "Polyga-
my degrades womanhood." "Where Polyga-
my exists all women are essentially degraded."
Well, we are very sorry for these "wise wo-
men of Gotham," who are at sea in a bowl
without any ballast—who as[-]ert that Polyga-
my is not better than prostitution, but infin-
itely worse in its effects upon society, how-
ever it may be in individual cases. They
pity Mormon women fanatics just as they do
the Hindoo women. Well, there's every reason
to pity them, for in their midst all sorts of
abominations abound, and they have no reme-
dy. The cries of the women who have been
cruelly and wantonly betrayed and abandoned,

[Column 2]
with the blood of their murdered offspring,
has pierced the throne of the Eternal, and ere
long He will avenge their wrongs.
	We affirm just as strongly as our opponent
that instead of degrading, plural marriage ele-
vates woman; we and hundreds of others have
proven it by practical experience. Mother-
hood exalts woman; it is her crowning glory;
and in no other marriage covenant is there
such perfect freedom for woman to pursue any
pursuit or avocation she may choose, as where
there are more wives. To be sure, if she de-
pends entirely upon her husband to direct her
every thought and action, she would be un-
happy, but it gives women the highest oppor-
tunities for self-development, exercise of judg-
ment, and arouses latent faculties, making
them more truly cultivated in the actual reali-
ties of life, more independent in thought and 
mind, noble and unselfish. The women of
Utah have the ballot still, and intend to make
good use of it, and educate the rising gen-
eration and those who come from foreign
lands every year to a higher and nobler stand-
ard of thought, feeling and action than to per-
secute any people because of their religious
faith. In Zion will the standard of welcome
be unfurled to all nations, and women as well
as men will help to raise this standard, for the
work is one of mutual benefit to both, and 
many honest and true souls will come gladly;
and the Saints can afford to wait until the 
Lord's time to redeem Zion, working and watch-
ing the while, to do good to all, and "especially
those of the household of faith." [handwritten] E. B. Well


