		A LESSON TO MOTHERS.

	To those who are permitted to live the
allotted time of man upon the earth, to live
to a good old age, life seems but a passing
dream; in speaking of their childhood they
often say, "It seems but yesterday." Very
little can be accomplished by those who 
make the best use they can of their time.
Scenes change so quickly, duties and cares
crowd upon us, so much to do and to think
of, that to a reflecting mind there is no
time for superfluities. If we would make
our record one of usefulness and honor here,
and of glory and exaltation hereafter, we
must make every hour count, we must not waste our time upon things wherein there
is no profit. We shonld strive to store up
knowledge and to lay up such treasures as
will not fade.
	Some will spend their time, means and 
principal thoughts in cooking, cleaning and 
adorning their houses and persons, to the 
neglect of their own minds and the minds
of their children. If you ask these persons
about any of the current items of the day,
they do not understand you. I admit that
it is right and proper, nay, more, it is our 
duty to make our homes pleasant and at-
tractive; every Latter-day Saint will do 
that, every mother will aim to make her
home the best place on earth to her loved
ones; It is her duty also to provide suitable
clothing for them, and to arrange it in the

[Column 2]
best, most comfortable and tasteful way
with the means she has at her command,
but she has no right, it is not her duty to 
waste her precious time, or wear out her
body in putting on so much useless, yea,
worse than useless trimming, causing so
much labor and wasting so much time in
washing and ironing. Many a young
mother has been permanently injured by
this folly at the sewing machine. I think
it is wrong, it is not pleasing in the sight
of the Lord; far better would it be for us
who profess to be above the follies of the 
world to spend our time in trying to adorn
and cultivate our minds and the minds of
those who are given to us of the Lord.
	There is enough of sorrow and suffering
for all to bear who live out their days on
this earth, and mothers should try to fortify
the minds of their children wtth good and
true principles, and unwavering faith in
God under all circumstances. This will
make them brave and strong, this will con-
stitute men and women of character; we
do not want "paper men." We should
teach our children correct ideas of life, and
with patience and gentleness teach them to 
labor and to endure some of the fatigues
and cares of older life. Do not, dear sister,
give your beloved and carefully nurtured
daughter to some one for a wife and mother
who, though she may be educated and ac-
complished in branches taught in school,
yet knows nothing of the more important
duties of life, or the responsibility she has
assumed. There is sorrow and vexation in 
store for her, poor girl; the education of
her hands has been neglected. This will
apply to boys too. No father should send
his son out to fight the battle of life with-
out giving him a knowledge of getting a 
living, which cannot slip away from him;
no matter how much property he may have,
teach him to labor.
	We should try to arrange all that we do
so as to accomplish the most and best good.
If we can give our children good school
education, that is good, but let not this ex-
clude other practical and useful knowledge.
If we can afford to have good comfortable
houses and costly apparel without getting
into debt, that is good too, yet let not that
suffice; better to have a soul adorned with
love, meekness, patience, honesty, truth
and thankfulness, than all the glory and 
riches of the whole world, for these will
fade, but the beauty and riches of the soul
will reach beyond the grave.
	We should try to cultivate in the minds
of our children a love for the beautiful in 
nature, in the grand old mountains around
our homes, a love for music and good read-
ing, and for everything that is noble and
true and that will refine and exalt their 
ideas. It needs not wealth to attain these
things; there can be refinement and peace
in the humblest cottage. I once knew a 
family who lived in a dirt-roofed log cabin,
so brown and bare outside that no spear of
grass, or even a weed grew around it, only
a green field not far away could be seen, to 
save the mark and relieve the eye. Inside
some of our best papers and books could be
seen, a few choice flowers stood in the win-
dow, every little arrangement in the house,
though of the simplest kind, betokened

[Column 3]
neatness and taste; the boys would bring
out their little instruments of music in the 
evening, and there was "love at home."
There was a spirit of improvement. I have
watched the boys from that home; they 
are now making a mark in this kingdom,
putting their shoulders to the wheel and 
trying and expecting to do their part in the 
redemption of Zion. When father and 
mother co-operate together to make home
pleasant, and reach after improvement, it
is not hard for children to follow.
