EDITOR EXPONENT:
	When I read in the papers of the noble
stand taken by my sisters in their several
Mass Meetings throughout Utah, in defence
of the glorious principles of their religion; I
felt desirious of raising my voice with the rest
of my sisters in solemn protest against any
interference with our religious rights.
	We have no organization of Relief Society
as yet, so I thought I would pen a few of my
thoughts upon paper. I feel to say, thank
God that we have such noble advocates who
dare stand forth in the face of the whole world,
as it were, and proclaim that they were the
wives and daughters of good and great men
who practised patriarchal marriage, and pro-
test against any interference with their sacred
religious rights.
	Our enemies may scoff and sneer as much as
they please, at the idea of polygamy being
part of our religion, in their corrupt hearts
they cannot see any thing pure and noble in
this principle. They judge us by themselves,
which is not always a righteous judgement.
And the noble self sacrificing sisters who went
to Washington to plead the cause of the Saints
of God; I feel that they deserve the lasting
gratitude of their sisters in Utah, whether
their appeal has any effect or not, it does not
make any material difference to us, let the
result be with God. As the Lord has said
through his prophet Joseph Smith, "Let my
Saints appeal to the highest court in the land,
and if they will not do them justice, then let
them appeal to their Father in heaven, and
He will hear them and come out with judg-
ments upon those unworthy servants who
have the power to do the Saints j[-]stice but
will not. They will fi[-]d when it is too late
what it is to measure [-]rms with the Almighty
God of heaven. We know this principle is of
God, and we know if we are firm in the cause
of truth, and the principles we have espoused,

[Column 2]
we will come out right, we can have no doubt
as to the result. We may in the future,(as we
have done in the past) have to pass through
trials and persecutions, to try us and prove
our faith. What is our religion worth, if we
are not willing to live for it, and die for it too,
if need be.
	Let us live up to the principle of plural mar-
riage, and teach it to our daughters as pure
and holy, revealed by the Almighty, to per-
petuate a noble race of people upon the earth,
that the noble intelligent spirits, that have
been held in reserve, in the eternal worlds, to
come forth in these last days to take part in
the great Latter-day work, and to prepare a
people for the coming of the Savior. What a
glorious privilege to come forth and receive
parentage smong the Latter-day Saints, and
what a great responsibility is resting on the
parents to bring this noble r[-]ce up, in the
principles of righteousness and truth, and set
an example worthy of imitation. How many
of us is there that realize this in the light we
should. Let each one answer for themselves.
	May the Lord of heaven bless you with
health and strength, to enable you to carry on
the work that you are so worthily engaged in,
that your valuable paper may continue to be,
as it ever has been, a true EXPONENT of the
feelings and views of the women of Utah. I
remain as ever,
	Your sister in the Gospel.
		SARAH M. POMEROY.
