	WOMAN'S RIGHTS IN JAPAN.—A wo-
man's rights d[-]monstration has been made
by a lady in the Southern Province, who 
protests against paying taxes unless she is
allowed the privilege of voting. Her let-
ter which is pertinent and logical even in 
Japanese estimation, has been referred by
local authorities to the central government
and awaits decision at the capital.—EX.
	ON the outside of the April number of 
the "Womah's Suffrage Journal" published
in Manchester, Miss Lydia E. Becker,
editor, is an earnest entreaty to the women
of England.
	VOTE! vote! vote!—Women Ratepayers
are reminded that Elections of poor-Law
Guardians, Members of Local Boards,
Church wardens, Overseers, Auditors and 
other Officials take place during April.
Vestry meetings for the Elections of 
Church wardens usually take place on the 
Tuesday in Easter week. Women Rate-
payers have the right to attend and vote in 
all local elections, and they are earnestly
exhorted to use the suffrage, which the 
law confers upon them. Elections for 
Guardians and Members of Local Boards
are conducted by means of voting papers,
which are left at the houses of the Rate-
payers, and are called for before the election.
Women ratepayers should see that their
papers are duly filled up and signed ready
to be given up when called for, and in case
of failure to collect the papers they should 
themselves forward them to the proper
officer, who is bound to notify by public ad-
vertisement the time and place when he
will receive papers which have not been 
called for.
	It is of the utmost consequence that wo-
men should exercise their votes on every
lawful occasson.
	Dorcas, drawing-room, and other meetings
have been held in various parts of England
to awaken an interest and prepare Parlia-
mentary petitions for the member Hon. Mr.
Courtney in support of his resolution. The
question was submitted to the House in
March under new conditions, and in a 
slightly altered form. This question was a 
resolution offering the principle once laid
down by Lord Beaconsfield that it is anoma-
lous that the Parliamentary franchise at-
tached to a household or property qualifica-
tion when possessed by a woman should
not be exercised, though in all local elec-
tions, when similarly qualified she exerci-
ses this right; and that this anomaly is in[-]
jurious to the best interests of the country.


