THE WOMEN'S WORK.

	The following copy of a letter addressed
by the President of the Centennial Board
of Finance to Mrs. E. D. Gillespie, Presi-
dent of the Centennial Executive Commit-
tee, has been received by Mrs. E. R. Snow.
Thinking it might be interesting for our
readers to know something of the apprecia-
tion of woman's work abroad, we publish
it in full.


"Mrs. E. D. Gillespie, President of the
		Women's Centennial Executive Com-
		mittee:
	"MY DEAR MADAM.—The Centennial
Board of Finance assigned to the Secretary
the duty of replying to your letter of the
29th ult., and at the same time requested
me to express to you and your associates
their feelings in contemplation of the close
of your labors in connection with the In-
ternational Exhibition. This duty I gladly
comply with.
	"This work which has been accomplishedhas placed the workers by which it was
wrought very close to the hearts of the
American people. They recognize in it a
true expression of their gratitude for the
past, their progress in the century, and the
hopes for the future which animate them in
this the Centennial year; and whilst they
never can know the individuals to whom
they are indebted for the fruits of all their
sacrifices, their perseverance and their la-
bor, there is now, and I believe will ever
continue to be, a grateful appreciation uni-
versally felt towards every actor in the
memorial scenes which have so recently
closed upon us.
	"As the Centennial Board of Finance
are very conscious of the efficient aid, and
of the steady, perservering zealous devotion
of your associates, and especially of your-
self, to the great cause in which you have
been co-workers with them, it gives me
very great pleasure to express in their be-
half their grateful acknowledgements for
all that you have done, and to assure you
that whilst in common with yourself public
approval is their only coveted reward, they
will ever bear in living remembrance all
your works, which having been entered in
a season of great darkness, were persevered
in through much adversity, until they cul-
minated in a blaze of glory. Allow me to
convey from the Centennial Board of Fi-
nance to you and your fellow laborers their
kindly greeting and their best wishes for
your prosperity and happiness.
	"Very sincerely,
		JOHN WELSH,
			President.
"Philadelphia, Dec. 18, 1876.


