			SODA SPRINGS Jan, 24. 1877.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	I wish to add my testimony to others who
have written on the subject, and say that the
very course the sisters are taking is an initiatory
step toward the UNITED ORDER of the king-
dom of God. The words of our beloved Presi-
dent Brigham Young to the brethren and sis-
ters are the words of life to every one who
will obey the same; the united efforts and
faith of all that take an active part in the pub-
lic enterprises which have been organized
with a view of consolidating the influences and
and exertions of this people, will be a blessing
in helping to establish upon a firm foundation
the Kingdom of God, which will "break in
pieces all other kingdoms," and in spreading
light and truth throughout the earth.
	I pray the Lord to bless the sisters in their
efforts to move forward in every good word and
work. I enjoy reading the EXPONENT very
much and desire it may prosper.
	Your humble Servant,
						LUDWIG SUHRKE
EDITORS EXPONENT:
	When a faithful sister passes away from
this earth I am glad to see it noticed in 
your paper.  I feel that the EXPONENT be-
longs especially to the sisters of Utah.
They are the ones that love to peruse its
contents, and the ones that desire to sup-
port and keep it in our midst.  I often
think what great blessings as editors you
are securing.  You are working for a pur-
pose, filling a great and glorious mission in
spreading the Gospel of Jesus Christ in this 
last dispensation.
	Who can read the EXPONENT and not 
feel that such sentiments are dictated by
honest hearts full of integrity to their God
and not ashamed of being Latter-day


Saints. I am pleased to read the commu-
nications of the Elders. The letter to 
Aunt Em is interesting and contains truths
which sooner or later will be realized. The
poetry by the same writer, expresses the
sentiments of every faithful saint when
away from their mountain home and the
society of the Saints.
	There has been a cloud of sickness and
sorrow over our city for about three months
but it has nearly passed. Those who have
not been called to mourn the loss of friends
by the terrible disease (Small Pox) have
felt sorrow in hearing of the sickness and
death of many of our good brethren and
sisters. It has carried sadness to many
hearts because we could not visit and help
them in their hour of need, and mingle our
tears with those that mourned. The last
taken away from us by that disease was
Sister Delecta Monch, and baby, wife of
Prof. Monch. She was a school-teacher,
and by her kindness and aimiability won
the love and respect of the old and the
young as well as the teachers who were as-
sociated with her. Her life seemed to hold
a bright prospect for the future but for
some wise purpose she was taken from our
midst. Every saint and friend deeply sym-
pathizes with the husband, parents and
family in their great loss which is undoubt-
edly her gain. She has paid the debt all
must pay, it is only a question of time, and
matters not when if we are only prepared.
	A. M. FRODSHAM
Ogden, Jan. 25th, 1877.


