NOTES AND NEWS.

	THE convention of Miss Anthony, Mrs.
Stanton, and their co-workers, in behalf of
a Sixteenth Amendment to the Federal
Constitution, prohibiting political disabili-
ties on account of sex, was well attended.
The addresses of these ladies, and of Mrs.
Blake, Mrs. Spencer, Mrs. Swisshelm and
others, were well received. The Hutchin-
sons sang, and the meeting continued two
days.
	At a hearing subsequently had before the
House Judiciary Committee, action was
urgently requested, affirming Woman's
right to practice law before the Supreme
Court, and it is hoped that a favorable re-
sult may be obtained.
	Petitions from twenty-three States, sign-
ed by several thousand citizens, were pre-
sented to Congress and referred to the Ju-
diciary Committee.—Ex.


The "Journal of Chemistry" gives utter-
ance to the following sentiments, and there
is so much truth in them that parents would
do well to take heed to their daughters who
are bringing home such piles of school-
books: "It is indeed a depressing sight, the
groups of girls released at night from our
public schools, struggling homeward laden
with six or eight text-books, which they
are to pore over with intense anxiety dur-
ing the long evening hours—hours which
should be devoted to healthful recreation.
An anxious school-girl is a pitiable object,
as with that anxiety comes cough, sleep-
lessness, loss of appetite, and a long train of
formidable evils. We are almost willing to
say that girls ought to be prohibited by
statute law from studying out of school
hours. A law of this nature would seem
to be as much needed as that which prohib-
its manufacturing establishments from em-
ploying youth under a certain age."


"Home" is the chief school of human
virtue. Its responsibilities, joys, sorrows,
smiles, tears, hopes and solicitudes, form the
chief interests of human life. Go where a
man may, home is the centre to which his
heart turns. The thought of his home
nerves his arm and lightens his toil. For
that his heart yearns when he is afar off.
There he garners up his best treasures.
God has ordained for all men alike the
highest earthly happiness in providing for
all the sanctuary of home.—Dr. Channing.


