			PREACHERS.

	In the light of the recent action of the
Newark Presbytery, we give an extract
from a European letter by Jane Grey Swiss-
helm.
	American preachers are wont to make a
European tour for their bronchittis, and
then come home and lecture us women on
the respect and gratitude we owe them on
account of our privileges!
	"It is Christianity," they tell us, "that
has lifted us out of slavery," and set us at
their feet to learn wisdom! Now, I beg
leave to call attention of the reverend gen-
tlemen to the fact that "Christianity had
been introduced into every country in
Europe by women, and was firmly estab-
lished in every one, before a woman sent
Columbus to look after America. That
every government in Europe, except Tur-
key, is a Christian government to-day, that
Saxony has God and Christ and Martin
Luther in her constitution; that her court
is Catholic Christian and her established
church and people Protestant Christian;
and the whole kettle-of-fish of European
governments are Christian. and that the
women are beasts of burden, or family
property prisoned in iron safes for the hon-
or and benefit of their owners, present or
prospective.
	The father guards the honor of his
daughter as an important part of his pos-
session, and sells it and her in the matri-
monial market to the highest bidder. Her
purchaser installs her stewardess of his
house, gives her the keys, and flogs her
whenever he thinks she needs a flogging.
	She is not supposed to have and inherent
virtue which would preserve her purity
without watching or the true inwardness of
fathers and husbands to teach her that the
male Christians in public places are very
dangerous animals.
	Women are not allowed to sing praises in
the houses of worship belonging to that sys-
tem of religion, which has lifted us all to
such sublime heighths of unquestioned
confidential intercourse with the shepherd
of their souls, in Catholic and Protestant
confessionals.
	These blessed Christians, in this Chris-
tian land, with its Christian government,
hitch women up with dogs and donkeys,
and set them to drawing loads through city
streets, and plows in country fields; and we
are called upon to reverence the clergy for
what Christianity has done for us, while
they exert all their influence to enforce on
the women of to-day the laws laid down for
Corinthian slaves two thousand years ago!
	No set of men on the face of God's green
earth are exerting themselves against Wo-
man's claim for common justice as are the
clergy of the United States and England—
the Christian clergy, the self-appointed
guardian of women's souls, and the sneer-
ing opponents of their right to freedom of
conscience and just compensation for their
labor.—Woman's Journal.


