THE DECLINE OF THE DRAMA.

	It is sad for both votary and patron of the
dramatic art to note the decadence from its
primeval design, and subsequent zenith of
glory and utility, to the perverted and semi-
lethargic condition in which it is to-day.
	Could the shade of the Athenian Thespis
or the Roman Rascius appear upon the
scene and view the unappy fate of the plan
and its perfected beauty, or, could the spir-
its of the immortal Garrick, Kemble, Kean,
or others of like fame, contemplate the
degradation of the profession which the
brilliant efforts of their genius elevated to
a co-equal station with the proudest in the 
"temple of art", would they not raise a sol-
emn protest against the base perversion,
and hurl the thunders of their righteous
indignation on the heads of all who are im-
plicated in this retrogression?
	But who are to blame—what is the cause
or causes which have dragged down and
reduced nearly to the level of a vice, an
art which, carried out from the primitive
idea, would instruct, elevate, and tend to
refine all who patronized it? On this last
point, all who are acquainted with the his-
tory of the drama are united; but, alas, how
easily is the good made evil! How often
things purposed for beneficial effect, through
ignorance and mismanagemeut produce the
exact reverse!
	The press throughont the country con-
tains inquiries, speculations and commenta-
ries on the unprecedented lax condition of
our theatricals, each paper assigning var-
ious reasons for the present stagnation. To
one interested in the prosperity of the
mimic stage, these matters are of serious
import, and demand consideration. Though
many arguments are adduced, and different
opinions expressed, yet from the unsatisfac-
tory bearing of the causes severally alleged,
we cannot acquiesce in any of the general
verdicts. It may be, as some assert, that at-
tractions are insufficient to suit the public
taste, or it may be as others urge that thea-
tre rates are too high for the present string-

[Column 2]

ency in monetary matters, but these are
unsubstantial reasons for the decline of a
profession; for, why, under the same cir-
cumstance as the last, do not our school sys-
tems collapse, our litigation diminish, and
our journals go into general bankruptcy?
The design of the drama was to become as
beneficial to humanity as any of these. An
instructor, a school, where nature seeing
nature could study itself, and yet the others
flourish in respectability; the teacher, the
lawyer and the editor are admitted into the
best society, while the drama is neglected
and degraded, and the actor shunned as
though his presence were a disgrace; the
former professions in public estimation,
stand as necessary to the life of a commu-
nity, while the latter is sunken to the grade
of an amusement.
	Viewing the case in this light, which we
feel to be a correct one, the query is sug-
gested: Is not the decline of the drama due
solely to the perverted tastes of a degener-
ate age? It was not so some hundred and 
more years ago when Garrick was the s'ar
and Shakespeare the theme, nor when
John P. Kemble wore the laurel and men
admired genius and perfected art. Those
were the times when "Sensational Dramas"
and "Black Crook" extravaganzas were
comparatively unknown. Then the dis-
play of feminine semi-nakedness and the
follies and vulgarisms of brainless fops,
were hissed from the stage, and denounced
by the press; and it remained for a later
and more civilized (?) age to foster these
indecencies, and worship at the shrine of
the golden calf they erected.
	Now, the greatest attraction for the mor-
al (?) modest (?) and fastidious public, in-
stead of the drama proper, and artists of
true merit, is a blaze of calcium light and
a display of female nudity. The most suc-
cessful managers and actors are those who
pander to this depraved public appetite,
and are upheld and patronized while the
others are slighted and forsaken. Can you
wonder at the decline of the drama? Can
you wonder at the stigma which rests upon
it, and the lethargy which binds it down?
Managers, actors, and public, can you not
see what is needed?—REFORM—genuine
and thorough. It is folly to bemoan a re-
sult whose cause is perpetuated by your-
selves; dig up the roots and the branches
will die. Unite your efforts to quell this
secession—this counterfeit which shocks all
decency, degrades public morals, and
wrecks the general welfare of the profess-
ion. Let it not be said that Edwin Booth
lost his labors and fortune in a futile at-
tempt to check this downward tendency;
emulate his noble example, persevere in
the good cause, and the drama will yet rise
in name and position and free itself from
the stain which now marks its character
affd defeats the fame and prosperity of its
ambitious devotees.
	"THESPIS."
Lancaster, Pa. Jan. 14, 1877.


