	LAIE, OAHU, SANDWICH ISLANDS,
							Dec. 27, 1876.
MRS. L. G. RICHARDS,
	Beloved Sister and friend: I now endeav-
or to answer your truly sisterly letter of
Aug. 28th.

	We are all well and doing the best we
can. There has but one of the missionaries
as yet arrived, Bro. James Keeler, who ar-
rived at Honolulu on the 14th of this
month, reaching here on the 18th. Some
forty natives young ladies, and gentlemen
gathered here and sung songs welcoming
him again to their land. The natives
thought a great deal of Bro. Keeler when
he was here with Bro. George Q. Cannon.
His Majesty the King Kalakaua, visited
our church in Honolulu, on the 17th of Dec.
Prest. W. E. Pack had the honor of preach-
ing to him. The King's object in visiting
our church was to organize Female Relief
Societies, as he is doing in other churches,
and after services were through he pro-
ceeded to attend to that business. He
wished to raise a fund to be applied to the
relief of the sick. During his remarks he
said his sympathies were with our people.
He wished them well and would like to
see them prosper. He had learned by the
Minister, Mr. Pack, that our right name
was not "Mormon" but Latter-day Saints;
said it was wrong to nick-name churches
and people, they should be called by their
right names. He was a member of the
Reverend Mr. Bishop's church, and had
been nick-named "Behopa." Said all
churches here were aiming for the same
place; they were all the same to him and
would receive his support.
	I will now tell you how nicely we en-
joyed our Christmas. We foreigners, were
serenaded by the Laie Band which consist-
ed of four tin whistles, one snare and one
bass drum, on which the brethren made tol-
erable music for amatuers. We treated
them to lemonade (some we had manufac-
tured ourselves from limes for the occasion,)
and cakes which they partook of with a
relish, being something new to them. We
sisters joined together and had a family
dinner. All seemed to enjoy themselves,
and thus passed my first Christmas on Laie
The sisters wish to be remembered to you.
Little Millie learns the la[---]ge fast; she is
a great comfort to me.

	The weather is very pleasant; Thermom-
eter 81 in the shade.
The EXPONENT comes regularly and we 
are always ready to peruse it.  You say you
know this mission will prove a blessing to 
me.  I hope and trust my Father in Heaven
will remember me and find me worthy of 
His blessings.  I know we have the pray-
ers of the Saints.  I am your sister, as ever,
