PICTURES.

	There is a silent influence in pictures
which many of us do not understand. In
childhood, even these speechless monitors,
looking down from the wall, speak to the
heart with an eloquent meaning that often
moulds its future destiny. In manhood
they bear witness to our growth and pro-
gress, and indicate the changes of the fleet-
ing years. In old age they awaken mem-
ory, bring up the scenes and faces of by-
gone times, and link our hearts in tender-
ness to the shadows of the past.
	But in childhood their inf[-]uence is more
impressive than at any other stage of life,
because the mind is then yielding and sus-
ceptible to its surroundings; the earliest
years being passed at home, and our infant
observation bounded by the four walls of a
nursery, the pictures, if there, are among
the first subjects of delightful contempla-
tion. Imitation, as well as curiosity, is a
fundamental element in human nature, it
follows the other almost invariably. In
this relation the human mind led by inquiry
derives the rudiments for theory before re-
ducing to practice; and thus the ideal
serves the actual.
	Pictures are generally representations of
life, either fanciful or practical, and often,
if attractive, exercise more influence on an
unsophisticated mind than the anxious
teachings of a mother or guardian. In-
stances have been known where they have
marked out and determined the after life
of children whose early years were passed
in the midst of them. We give one—a
father and mother could not divine the rea-
son why both their boys should have a de-
sire to go to sea and follow the hard and
dangerous vocation of a sailor for a livli-
hood. They had not taught nor encour-
aged the idea as they could remember, be-
ing both strenuously opposed to it, but
nothing would avail to prevent the execu-
tion of the plan. One day the father was
sitting, lost in thought when his gaze
chanced to rest on two old pictures on the
wall, one a ship in full sail, the other a na-
val combat. All at once the truth flash-
ed upon his mind; these were what had in-
spired his sons with a taste for the mari-
ner's life. Subsequently the fact was ad-
mitted by the two.
	There is true philosophy to sustain this
incident, let the skeptical say what they
choose, and the philosopher who said, "Tell
me your associates and I'll tell you what
you are," evidently understood what he
was saying.
	In your homes everything should be pleas-
ant, sensible and substantial; not only the
pictures, books and furniture, but the liv-
iug occupants, for all are pictures which are
deeply impressed on the minds of children.
These pictures never perish, for our actions
words and faces remain there as witnesses
to manhood, as remembrances to age, and
as pictures whose light remains forever.
	Then let us be careful to direct the minds
of the young in a right direction, by plac-
ing pictures before them worthy of copy
and emulation; that when time shall devel-
op their latent talents and energy, they in
turn may become exemplary of our race
and bright pictures for the study of those
who follow in their footsteps.
								IAGO.


MANY seek solace for their troubles in
the gay French capital. They think the
best plaster for their wounds is the plaster
of Paris.


