EDITOR EXPONENT:

	I think it is our duty as a band of sisters
to respond to all the calls that are made up-
on us. We have joined these associations
for the sisters, and I think we ought to obey
and respect the rules. We have now en-
tered upon a New Year, and I think we
ought to begin with the year and be deter-
mined to live better and attend all our
meetings.
	Now if we believe that by depriving
ourselves of the foolish and vain pleasures
of this life that we will gain the blessings
that are in store for the righteous, let us
begin at once, no matter if it does seem
hard; we do not live in this world for the
pleasures of this life, but to prepare our-
selves for a better and higher sphere, for
according to our works we will be reward-
ed. When God gives a commandment to
His people He expects it to be obeyed, and
if we do not obey it we cannot expect Him
to bless us, for He has not promised to do
so; but He says, "Inasmuch as my people
do my will and keep my commandments I
will pour out my blessings upon them."
Then it is our duty to live for them; it is
no use to ask His blessings unless we do
right, for we cannot serve two masters;
then let us choose the right one, and strict-
ly obey all the commandments He gives us
through His servants. God does not come
Himself when He wishes to give His peo-
ple a commandment, but He has chosen a
mouthpiece upon this earth, to whom He
reveals His mind and will concerning His
purposes. And we should prepare ourselves
to receive and obey all the commandments
that are given. Then if given to us through
the Prophet that it is not prudent to dance
round dances, surely we can live better
without them than to lose our blessings.
Then let us be determined that we will give
them up, and not say we will have our
pleasure and enjoyment, if it deprives us
of our salvation.
	From your sister in the Covenant,
				FLORILLA BURGESS.
	Goshen, Utah.


MY little Leon is now four and one-
half years old. One day at the table he
finished picking the third spare-rib bone,
and laying them all in a row, he looked up
in my face and said, "Ma, those bones are
read and accepted."		E.S.B.


TIME is a species of wealth which it is
impossible for us to hoard, but which we
may spend to good advantage.


