EDITOR EXPONENT:
	The columns of your interesting paper, de-
voted to the encouragement of all that is good
and estimable in woman character and life,
seems to be a place most suitable for the names
of those who have been successful in leaving
behind them an unexceptionable life's record.
There are a few who live in this world in a
manner to secure the esteem and respect of all
who know them, and whose memory it is a
pleasure to cherish. Such was the life of her
whose name appears in this communication,
Mrs. Ann Cash Richards. She was the daugh-
ter of Joseph and Mary Hayward Jones, and
was born May 29, 1803, in Tilley, Shropshire,
England. She embraced the Gospel in Eng-
land in the early days of its history there, and
in 1832 took charge of the house department
in connection with the Liverpool Office, where

[Column 2]
she had an opportunity for many years to be-
come acquainted with and entertain as hostess,
many of the Elders who visited and labored in
that mission, hundreds of whom remember
the name of "Sister Cash" as one who always
took pleasure in doing what she could to ad-
minister to them the comforts of life, and en-
courage them in their labors. In 1835 she
came to this city, gathering with the saints
and leaving children and relatives behind,
where by her uniform goodness of life, without
aspirations, or aims for distinction in this world,
she secured the esteem of all who knew her.
	It was always her pleasure to do for and en-
courage the Relief Societies and all other or-
ganizations for the good and prosperity of the
saints, especially the poor among them.
	For years she was afflicted with an asthmat-
ic cough, especially during the winter months,
which of late proved too severe for her, and
the dropsy terminated her life, Jan. 30, 1877,
having experienced, especially in her early
history many trying changes and vicissitudes
incident to a life of more than seventy-three
years; and has passed away with every assur-
ance which integrity and faithfulness to the
Gospel and its ordinances can give to a worthy
sister in Christ.
	She was followed to her last resting place by
a goodly number of those true sisters and
friends whom she had esteemed in life, and to
whom she was grateful in the hour of death,
which hour to her had no sting, nor shall the
grave have victory.
								COM.
—"Millennial Star," please copy.


