HOME AFFAIRS.

	THE regular meeting of the Young La-
dies' Association of the Tenth Ward, held
Feb. 8, 1877, was one long to be remembered,
especially by the Secretary who, on that occas-
ion was the happy recipient of a large and
beautiful chromo, both chaste and elegant;
presented by the President in behalf of the
Association as a token of respect; kind, friend-
ly remarks were made by several present and
a vote of thanks tendered the Secretary and
her Assistant for their punctual attendance and
faithfulness in the past. The Secretary re-
turned her heartfelt thanks for the kind appre-
ciation of the gift and the good feeling of the
young sisters which was still more precious.
A happy peaceful spirit pervaded throughout
the meeting and all present seemed to partake
of its influence.
	DURING THE past few weeks we have receiv-
ed many pleasant calls from strangers and
travelers, some of them seemingly very anx-
ious to learn of our principles, others of our
business interests more especially. Among
these were Alph. Mullender, Representative of
Verviers, at the International Philadelphia
Exhibition, and Delegate of the Royal Bel-
gian Government. He was introduced to us by
Mr. H. C. Goodspeed of this city; Mr. J. G.
Morrison Esq., of London, England; and J.
T. Wiltshire of Sydney, New South Wales;
the last two gentlemen staid in the city sever-
al days taking items of all the most notable
features, and attended meeting and Sunday
School, and expressed much interest in the
Home Institutions. To all these gentlemen
we explained concerning the Grain Movement,
Mr. Wiltshire gave us a good description of the
way they preserve grain in Australia in im-
bedded rock. We also acknowledge the calls
of Mr. and Mrs. Frank Cole and Miss E. Al-
lison, the two ladies being writers and corres-
pondents of papers were of course particularly
entertaining in conversation. Mr. Cole seems
entirely free from the prejudice which exists
with so many against us as a community of 
people.
	S. L. CITY, Feb. 8, 1877.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	I send you a Report of the Young Ladies'
Retrenchment Association of the Thirteenth
Ward for the past year. Our meetings are
very well attended and the young ladies seem
interested in educating themselves in their re-
ligion, always willing to do whatever they are
requested to,that will aid them in being useful,
and improve them in mind or heart. We have

[Column 2]

in the Society a Temple Fund, which each
member can contribute to weekly, and as the
contribution is placed at five cents all can
reach it. In this manner we have collected
for the Temple the sum of twenty-three dol-
lars and sixty cents. Have also a quilt valued
at six dollars which we have handed into the
Relief Society, and quilt pieces amounting to
three dollars. About two months since we
commenced buying books intending to have a
library composed of a collection of our Chnrch
Books. Have succeeded in obtaining the "Life
of Brigham Young" which we are now read-
ing and expect before it is finished to be able
to get another, and so continue until we have
a Library of useful, interesting books, which
if not great in number are "priceless in value."
We have had some most excellent teachings
at times from the elder sisters who take great
interest in our improvement, and becoming
in connection with the other Young Peoples'
Societies, a strong and mighty phalanx in this
kingdom. Our President, Mrs. Elizabeth
Thomas, is devoted and unremitting in her la-
bors and exertions in this organization.
		L. A. ASHBY, Sec'y.
	SERICULTURE.—The Deseret Silk Associa-
tion met at the Fireman's Hall on Wednes-
day, the 7th inst., Mrs. Zina D. Young presid-
ing.
	Mrs. Young said she was glad to meet with
the members of the Association and talk over
those things that were for our benefit and to
adopt such measures as were thought best for
the development of the silk interest. It was
not for the benefit of a few, but the communi-
ty at large, and more especially the rising gen-
eration. She suggested that a pamphlet be
published on the manipulation of the silk
worm, with the experience of those who had
been successful in this Territory. She hoped
to be able, before long to supply the demand
at home with all kinds of sewing silk. Mrs.
Lorinda Robinson, of Farmington, would
soon have some handkerchiefs in the market
for sale.
	Mr. Paul A. Schettler exhibited some speci-
mens of silk, of home manufacture; also some
samples that he had received from Italy, the
former having been reeled at his house, by
Mrs. Candon, of Logan. He had one hun-
dred and twenty-five skeins, which weighed
fifteen pounds. It took four pounds of cocoons
to make one pound of silk. He had received
a communication from the firm of Rinalds
Kuntzel and Co , Florence, Italy, stating that
our sample of silk was first-class, the only
fault being it was a little too coarse, having
from ten to twelve threads, theirs only having
four threads, that being their standard. How-
ever it would sell very well at eleven or twelve
dollars a pound, and as far as they could learn,
by persons visiting Italy, also by newspaper
reports, we have the best climate for silk rais-
ing they know of. What was most needed was
to influence land owners to plant mulberry
trees. It would prove a gold mine to them
and the community. They offered to buy an-
nually from fifty to one hundred tho[-]sand
pounds of cocoons. Mr. P. A. Schettler [-]aid
he was in favor of purchasing the very [-]est
machinery that could be got. He had received
two ounces of silk-worm eggs of the Tuscan
race which is considered the best in Europe.
The cocoons are not so large, but the silk is of
a better quality. He had seventeen ounces of
eggs to dispose of at four dollars an ounce; al-
so some in small quantities that he would give
to children and to new beginners.
	Mrs. Barney exhibited some specimens of


silk raised and reeled by Mrs. A. K. Dunyon,
which were excellent.
	Mr. Joseph Heywood, of Gunnison, Sanpete,
enquired where to get trees and what the price
of them.
	Mr. Schettler said he had some young trees
to dispose of from three to four years old from
the seed, at ten cents a tree.
	Meeting adjourned till the first Wednesday
in March, at this place at 3 p. m.
						R. SIMPSON, Sec'y.
	THE MANUFACTURE of silk in this Territory
is being brought already to a degree of perfec-
tion in some specialities. The silk laces, veils,
handkerchiefs and scarfs, are a credit to the
department, and the rich, elegant fringe which
was manufactured for the ornamenting of the
St. George Temple, from the very elements of
Utah, is a tangible proof of the improvement
which is being made in sericulture. To those
who desire the future welfare of Utah this busi-
ness should be interesting and every exertion
should be made to introduce mulberry trees
wherever there is land which can be made
available to the growth of them. The leaves
can be gathered by children, and the cocoons
raised by persons who are not able to perform
arduous labor. In regard to buying machinery,
first of all there should be a supply of the
silk on hand, otherwise the machinery would
be a dead weight on the owyer's hands until
it could be secured. The planting of the
mulberry trees and the raising of cocoons comes
first and the machinery will be a secondary
consideration.


