BOBERT FULTON.

	The collection of "Gates papers" in the
Historical Society was due to Robert Ful-
ton, who next to his steam project was an
amateur in history, and was among the
early patrons of this institution. There are
very few persons now living who remember
Robert Fulton, for he died sixty-one years
ago; but those who knew him could not soon
forget his tall form, which was more than
six feet high, his expansive brow covered
with curls of dark brown hair, and his large
and piercing eyes. His mouth was beauti-
ful and suggested eloquence. Upon the
whole, his appearance was peculiarly strik-
ing, and well worthy of the position he holds
in history. That his life was one of inces-
sant conflict scarcely need be said. He was
called "crazy Fulton," not only by the
masses, but also by men who pretended to
scientific skill. The by-word of that day
was the "Marine Smoke-jack and Fulton's
Folly." The place where the "folly" was
constructed was near Corlear's Hook, and
here the inventor endured some of his se-
verest conflicts. At last, on the 7th of Sep-
tember, 1807, he saw the Clermont start on
her trip to Albany. At that time it was
the only steamboat in existence. Fulton
was then more than forty-two years old,
and had but little more than seven years to
live. It was a peried of intense activity,
both in improving his invention and de-
fending his patent. To a lawsuit connected
with the latter his death was immediately
due. Coming from Burlington, New Jer-
sey, to this city, he was obliged to cross the
Hudson river in a row boat, and was an
hour making the trip. He became thor-
oughly chilled, and died of rapid consump-
tion in his fiftieth year. Dr. Hosack, who
attended him, exclaimed to a friend as he
returned home at midnight: "Fulton is dy-
ing. His severe cold amid the ice in cross-
ing the river has brought on inflammation
and glassites. He extended to me his gen-
erous hand, grasping mine closely, but he
could no longer speak."Fulton's body was
buried in the Livingstone vault in Trinity
Churchyard. His portrait was painted by a
daughter of his friend Thomas Addis Em-
met, and is considered a tolerable likeness.
—New York paper.


