CONCLUDED.
	It would be only a waste of time to call
the attention of our readers to these un-
happy and unsanctified marriages. Men
and women bound to each other by a civil
law which gives them certain privileges,
from which in some countries there is no
escape, and which in the sight of God, in
millions of instances there is no shadow of
doubt, are only an abomination. What can
be the result of such a union, what the pre-
natal influences which usher into the world
the helpless offspring of unholy wedlock?
Far better to remain single throughout all
time, than to entail the catalogues of sin
and crime upon successive generations.
Why should so much wonder be expressed
that wickedness increases upon the earth,
when men and women enter into the matri-
monial state with as little feeling, or conge-
niality as they would make any civil com-
pact or business arrangement? Not that
caution and prudence are not requisite, I
firmly believe they are, but there should
be PRINCIPLE implied, underlying the found-
ation of marriage, and requiring affection
of the most faithful and solid quality.
	Young people, men, or women, it matters
not of which sex, who have not something

[Column 2]

more than a sort of fascination, or attraction
for each other, and marry because their
friends think it very suitable they should
do so, will find they must cultivate an im-
mense amount of charity for each others
short-comings and foibles, and especially
should children be given to them, for they
see much more quickly through any flimsy,
or transparent covering, than parents are
apt to imagine.
	"Single blessedness" is far preferable to
unhappy married life; and to be independ-
ent and earn one's own living is much more
desirable than to eat the bread of a man
who, if he does not taunt you with depen-
dency, makes you feel the great favor he
has conferred upon you by making you his
wife;
		"O marriage! marriage! what a cnrse is thine,
		When hands alone consent, and hearts abhor."
	Summing up the whole matter in question
of No "Surplus Women," my opinion is
this, that good, wise and honorable men
should marry all the good women that are
marriageable, and love them too, such as
are lovable. In the world, where monoga-
my exists, there can only be an equal divi-
sion, for the rest what remains to be done?
A MISSION, if they will fill it nobly, honor-
ably and faithfully. And each one who
seeks it will find a fitting place, where all
her energies and capabilities may be ex-
erted wisely and for good.
	There is a great and growing necessity
for woman's work in the revolutionizing of
society. It is the prophetic influence of the
coming crisis, when woman's aid will be
needed, that is calling forth all this criti-
cism. At any given time when there is a
certain work to be performed, persons are
raised up and qualified to do that work, and
afterwards it becomes apparent that they
were eminently fitted, by some intuitive
power, for the very occasion. Of this, histo-
ry furnishes us abundant proofs. All per-
sons of quick perception may easily discern,
if they will, the presage of woman's era
now in progress; are not the leading char-
acteristics which mark the signs of the
times, giving notice that some great, radical
change is about to transpire?
	As an illustration let us quote the old
proverb, true or untrue ("this deponent
saith not"), "When more boys than girls
are born it is said to be a sign of war." If
there is a majority of single women, it is
for some special purpose; there is something
for them to do besides sitting down and be-
moaning their fate. "Causes produces ef-
fects." There must necessarily be a mighty
phalanx of women to establish "Woman's
Suffrage," Polygamy and other innovations
upon tradition and man-made customs of
past ages; an equal number would not an-
swer, for how could the rights of suffrage
and heritage be obtained, if their numbers
did not strengthen their ranks. Men have
become so steeped in intemperance and
many other vices, and infidelity has diffused
itself so thickly among mankind that the
puriyfying elements of woman's atmosphere
must penetrate into every circle, or sphere,
where her influence can be a power for good.
	Let woman hold herself sacred from the
touch or embrace of impurity—let her be so
chaste that the man she marries must come
up to her ideas of virtue and purity and the
world would soon see the result, but so long
as women will pander to the depraved tastes
of men who have no respect for honor, ex-
cept in empty words, whose lives are an un-
blushing lie—so long will woman be at a
discount. If the women of the world could
believe what is really before them, they
would speak louder and stronger and more
emphatically in their own defense.

[Column 3]

	We should be valiant in a good cause, and
the Woman's Missionary cause is assuredly
a good one, if it is filled with dignity and
discretion.
	AUNT EM.
S. L. City, Feb. 9, 1877.


