	PEOA SUMMIT Co., Jan. 27, 1877.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	The Peoa Relief Society was organized
on September 13th 1875, since which time
we have endeavored to keep pace with the
times, and follow the good advice which is
given to us through your valuable paper.
	The present officers of the Society are:
President, Mrs. Rachel M. Miles; Counsel-
ors, Mrs. Lydia Marchant, Mrs. Sarah M.
Newman; Secretaries, Mrs. Harriet M.
Marchant and Mrs. Sally A. Lee; Treasurer,
Mrs. Lauretta Palmer; Teachers, Mrs. Lydia
E. Walker, Mrs. Elizabeth Wright, Mrs.
Annie Jensen, Mrs. Annie Marchant, Mrs.
Maria Lyons, and Mrs. Martha Huffaker.
These sisters have been diligent in the dis-
charge of their duties and merit great
praise for the active part they have taken
in the society.
	The Society is in a flourishing condition
and the members, numbering thirty-four in
all, are alive to their duties, and are anxious
to forward the good cause in which they
are engaged. With the spirit of God to
guide us, and peace and unity practiced in
our every-day lives, I know that we will be
able to accomplish much good.
	We do not forget the noble move in rela-
tion to the Grain Question, and hope in
time to be able to do something in regard
to that matter; but at present we can do
nothing, having lost our grain crops this
last season by frost which has been a great
detriment to the prosperity of our settle-
ment.
	The visit of Sisters' E. Howard and E.
S. Barney was to us an enjoyable time. The
good advice they gave to the sisters in re-
lation to their duties, the encouragement
we received to live pure and holy lives,
and the benefit of the Society and the good
it would accomplish was fully dwelt upon;
all of which gave us renewed diligence in
the discharge of our duties. The visit of
these two sisters and their words will long
be remembered, and the good spirit and in-

[Column 2]
fluence which they left, will, we trust, ever
be in our minds.
	On Dec. 14, 1876, we organized a Young
Ladies' Retrenchment Association with the
following officers: President, Mrs. Jane Ann
Maxwell, Counselors, Miss Ann Eliza Pal-
mer, Mrs. Elizabeth Marchant, Miss Annie
M. Larsen, Miss Louisa Wright, and Miss
Elizabeth Maxwell; Secretary, Miss Rachel
E. Shippen; Assistant Secretary and Treas-
urer, Miss Luella M. Lee. The Association
at present, numbers twenty-three. The
young sisters feel well and are determined
to do all in their power to help the good
cause in which they are engaged, and by
living, and encouraging others to live pure
and holy lives that they may become use-
ful and honorable women in the kingdom of
our Lord.
			HARRIET MARCHANT.
							Sec'y.

