MY PURPOSE.

	I am not ashamed to own that I am work-
ing for a purpose in this kingdom, and that
purpose is to secure an eternal salvation in
the kingdom of God. When I left my
home in England and came here, it was to
learn more fully to keep our Father's com-
mandments, and it was with a pure motive
that I became practically acquainted with
the principles of plural marriage. During
twenty years' experience I have never re-
gretted entering into that holy order of
matrimony; I know it to be a righteous
principle, and it is calculated to be a bless-
ing to all who are trying to improve them-
selves and their posterity both mentally and
physically. I know, too, that the blessing
of the Lord attends it. I have long wished
to bear this testimony to all who will read
it, and though perhaps I have not always
improved all my opportunities of qualify-
ing myself for the position I hold as a
Mother in Israel, yet I am trying to learn
every day how best to live to accomplish
my "purpose" I am only a humble home-
worker. Circumstances and family duties
prevent me from much public service, and
I know there are many of my sisters more
capable and more at liberty to search out
the distressed, comfort the mourner, guide
the weak and erring, lead the young and
strengthen the aged by efficient and appro-
priate help, and scatter words of counsel

[Column 2]

and encouragement to the many through
the EXPONENT. For all this I am thank-
ful, and I know that every one will be re-
warded for all the good they do.
	But to return to my "purpose." I wish
to live so that I may be worthy to receive
from my heavenly Father, as my own
through all eternity, these children which
He has lent me. If I am faithful to my
trust, and can with the Lord's blessing do
my part towards instilling and implanting
in their minds the principles of this gospel
while they are young, then I think I shall
gain "my purpose." "As the twig is bent
the tree's inclined," and the comforting,
cheering assurance is given us by the wise
man, that if we "train up a child in the
way he should go, when he is old he will
never depart from it." If the Lord spares
these boys to me, and I can so teach coun-
sel and guide them that they grow up to
manhood honest and true, and become good,
faithful and efficient Elders in this Church,
then I think I shall not have lived in vain.
This is the problem for me to solve, this is
the purpose before me. While they are in
infancy we can watch them, and check lit-
tle tendencies to evil and cultivate the good;
but as they grow older they are away at
school, or in the field at work, or separated
from us for weeks and months through un-
controllable circumstances, but if they have
been taught to confide to us, their mothers,
their thoughts and ideas, to tell us of their
difficulties, and above all never to do any-
thing they cannot ask the blessing of God
upon, they will not go far wrong. When
the father is absent they should take part
in praying in the family circle, and in ask-
ing blessings; this would give them confi-
dence, and will accustom them to pray in
their own innocent, child-like way, and I
think no prayer is more acceptable with
God than that of an earnest, innocent child.
Not more than a year since, a boy of four-
teen years, with whom I am acquainted,
was riding alone across the desert from
Dugway mountain, fifty miles west of this
place; the weather was very cold, it was
near night, and he had rode hard all day,
had neither bedding nor provisions, and
was many miles from shelter. He alighted
and led his horse to a spring to drink, when
it broke from him and run off; the poor
boy ran till he was almost exhausted, but
failed to catch the animal. Realizing his
danger he knelt down and prayed earnestly
to the Lord for help. Very soon, quite un-
expectedly a young man rode up, to whom
he told his trouble; he rode after the horse,
caught him and sent him safely on his way.
With tears the boy told his mother of the
circumstance and that the Lord had an-
swered his prayer, adding that he would
always remember it.
	We cannot only have a watch-care over
our own, but every thoughtful, observing
mother will see many opportunities of
dropping a word of advice, counsel or en-
couragement, or to implant a good idea in
some young mind; in short, if we cannot
engage in much public enterprise, let us
always be ready to lend our influence to the
right, and never by a word encourage any-
thing that is contrary to, or that would
bring reproach upon any principle of this
Gospel. Let us always strive to imbue the

[Column 3]

minds of our children with the love of OR-
DER, and of UNITY, and TRUTH; teach
them to respect their parents, then they
will respect and be obedient to the Priest-
hood; and also instruct them in the princi-
ples of the United Order and of Celestial
Marriage, that they may feel like the boy
who, when asked by his mother, if with the
understanding he had, he regretted that his
mother was his father's plural wife, an-
swered her, "No, mother, I am proud of 
it."
	ESTHER A. BENNION.
Vernon, Jan. 26, 1877.


