COURAGE UNDER DIFFICULTIES.

	True heroism is not daunt[-]d by opposition.
No accumulation of difficul[--]es can discourage
those who possess firm determination, and a
will to succeed in any certain direction. It
gives fresh impetus and s[-]rength to those who
are earnest in their endeavors to persevere.
Timid, shrinking, men and women are easily
swerved from any given purpose; the little an-
noyances of the struggles that beset all in this
life, to them seem impassable barriers. They
wilt under the influence of ridicule, sarcasm,
or satire. Persons of superior talents and gen-
nius, often become disheartened under a little
cloud of embarrassments, or unpropitious cir-
cumstances, when if they only had a little per-
severance, a strong will and a courageous soul
to combat these opposing elements, the cloud
would have burst like a bubble, and the unpro-
pitious would have changed to the auspicious.
	There is an old proverb that in war you should
"keep your powder dry and trust in Provi-
dence." Life to most people is a continual war-
fare one difficulty after another arising to inter-
cept progress upon its journey. Keep your
courage up, never let your spirits shrink in
the encounter, however arduous or unpleasant,
and "face the music" with indomitable resolu-
tion and an unlimited amount of endurance,
asking for wisdom and guidance from "Our
Father in Heaven" in the name of One who
endured all shame passed through the most
fiery ordeal and came off "Conqueror over
death and the grave."
	If there is one thing more essential to life
than another it is true courage; without it the
brightest intellect becomes a curse instead of
a blessing. To be sure there are instances
where support is given by some one of strong-
er power or force of character, but such props
are liable to be removed; the only sure trust is
God and one's self. How necessary then in
the training of a child, in the building up, or
forming a character, that there should be a
fountain of noble courage and inbred fortitude
within. Let them know the realities of life.
and do not gloss it over with any falsity, but
as the mind matures let them meet the little
emergencies that will inevitably come, and
teach them to be brave and resolute without
being designing or malicious. This is true
philosophy for boys the world over; but it is
equally necessary for girls, and were they all
trained in childhood and girlhood to be thus
brave and self-reliant, there would not be half
so mnch whining over blasted hopes, and bro-
ken hearts. Of all the conditions of women
in the world the most deplorable state is of
those who despise working for themselves, and
who have been allowed to imbibe the idea

[Column 2]

that woman's position in life is one of de-
pendency. Mothers you are doing your daugh-
ters the greatest injustice, when you allow
them to come to years of maturity without
placing in their hands a power of some sort by
which they could, if necessary be self-support-
ing. They are not fit for wives or mothers
and if they remain single they will lack that
solidity of character which will help them to
maintain any position of responsibility or
trust. Trusting in Providence is proper and
right but were this maxim to be inculcated
without qualifying, (beg pardon) but there are
those who would never get any further than
eating, drinking and sleeping; and instinct
would be their only guide.
	What can be done by men or women them-
selves is their work, and duty points the way,
the future result, the final solution of the grand
problem must be left in the hands of Him who
doeth all things well.
	E. B. Wells


[Column 1]

