EXTRACTS FROM THE BALLOT BOX.

	Woman's general devotion to everything
except what immediately concerns her own
highest interests, her self-abnegation, self-
sacrifice have been so long and so sweetly
sung by poets, priests and philosophers as
the acme of human perfection, that femi-
nine vanity is quite apt to take that form
of expression. Now to my mind it is rath-
er pitiful than commendable for our young
women to go about begging funds to edu-
cate young men for the ministry or for mis-
sionaries to foreign lands, to decorate
churches, etc., while the majority of their
own sex are ignorant, helpless, degraded,
too poor to enter institutions of learning,
and if able are denied admittance. It is
not commendable for women to sustain
churches, in which the gifted of their sex
may not pray and preach, nor share in their
offices and honors, nor have a voice in its
business matters, creeds and discipline.
There is not a man in the Methodist church
that has done a better revival work than
Mrs Van Cott, and yet a California bishop
refused to ordain her. On making her ap-
plication Mrs. Van Cott said :
	"During the last year, through my labors,
I have brought one thousand seven hundred
and thirty-five persons into the Church.
Have I not shown my capacity to fill the 
position?"
	"Certainly," says the Bishop, you have."
	Says Mrs. Van Cott: "In order to accom-
plish these conversions I have travelled in
one year 7,208 miles. Have I not shown
my capacity to bear fatigue and exposure,
and to renounce temporal comforts in labor-
ing for the faith?"
	"Yes," says the Bishop, "You have."
	Says Mrs. Van Cott : "In the prosecu-
tion of my ministerial work I have written
in one year, 650 letters ; and I have attend-
ed 828 religious meetings ; and I have
preached 399 sermons. Could more be ask-
ed? What man of you all has done more
than this?"
	"None," says the Bishop, "none."
	Says Mrs. Van Cott : "I have spent 1,776
hours in religious meetings during one year.
Has any minister in the land exhibited a
greater zeal and a more devoted steadfast-
ness in the faith?"
	"None," says the Bishop, "none. You
have traveled and written and prayed and
preached ; and 1,735 persons, received
through your ministrations into the Church,
bear living and joyful testimony to your
power in converting sinners to Christ and
saving souls from damnation ; but—but—
but— you are a—"
	The Bishop paused.
	"Speak! speak!" said Mrs. Van Cott.
"Say what I am that should keep me from
doing the work of my God and Savior?"
	Said the Bishop ; "You—you—you—Mrs.
Van Cott, are a—you are—"
	"Oh, go on," said Mrs. Van Cott. "Do
not hesitate to tell me what is the terrible
thing you would name. Go on. What ter-
rible crime have I committed, that you
should disqualify me for Christ's work?
Speak—name it—and I withdraw my ap-
plication."
	Said the Bishop : "I will not ordain you.
You are a—"
	"What am I?" said Mrs. Van Cott. "Out
with it. Speak like a man. Name my
crime."
	"Oh!" said the Bishop, "it is no crime—
no crime, I suppose, Mrs. Van Cott., but
only a terrible misfortune."
	"Oh! name my misfortune then," said
Mrs. Van Cott. "If it is one that debars

[Column 2]
me from ordination to do the work of my
Heavenly Master, then, indeed, it is a mis-
fortune ; but I will bear it. Name it, and
through Christ's help, I will bear it."
	"I will not ordain you," said the Bishop.
"You are—you are—God give me strength
to speak it! You are—a—WOMAN!"—
E. Cady Stanton


[Column 1]

