		A HAPPY NEW YEAR.

	A Happy New Year! How familiar this
phrase has become. Yet what fascination it
still has for us all, as it rings out heartily from
some dear friend. What shall it bring to us?
is one of the first thoughts which spontane-
ously arises in the mind. It is a time sugges-
tive of reflection, when we launch forth upon
untried ground. Although one may pursue
the same daily avocations, may not even have
a holiday (for holidays are rarities to some),
yet there is always something in the thought
of the New Year which strikes home to the
inner self, and appeals strongly to the better
nature within. There is really something
emotional in the thought that a new record is
to be entered upon, a new era is opening, in
which perhaps a brighter and cheerier prospect
may dawn upon our lives. Our hearts seem
drawn out in kindlier feelings towards all man-
kind, and involuntarily we grow charitable
towards others, as we feel the need of charity
and forbearance being extended to us. How
much good we poor mortals could do to one an-
other, if we were a little more kindly, a little
more thoughtful, a little more generous towards
a brother, or sister. In the cultivation of the
finer feelings and manner there is certainly a
great lack. It is often said, "So and So has a
rough manner, is abrupt in speech, but his
heart is all right;" and people readily accept
the explanation especially if their own tender
feelings have not been wounded too often.
But surely there is such a thing as being noble
and magnanimous at heart, and giving some
token of it by one's manner. Or is the world
so full of spurious courtesy, that a real gentle-
man, or lady, must, forsooth, adopt the man-
ners of a boor, rather than be classed with the
polished, lest they should be thought hypo-
crites. One thing is certain, that the delicate
deference and chivalrous courtesy that charac-
terized the true gentlemen and lady, seem to
have become almost a thing of the past. Or is
it because in this fast age people have not time
to observe towards each other those delicate
amenities that are always so pleasing in daily
social intercourse.
	There is nothing more desirable for any peo-
ple than to see their youth excel in all that is
noble and elevating, for they are to be the
strong motive power of the coming era, and
upon them will rest the great structure of so-
ciety, and they must eventually solve for them-
selves and each other all the great problems of
life. In the new year now dawning, would it
not be well for all to form some new resolu-
tions, and keep them faithfully, in regard to
their bearing towards their fellowmen. A lit-
tle more forbearance with the erring, a little
more courtesy towards their equals, and a tender
deference for the aged, or superiors in position

[Column 2]
or knowledge, would greatly enchance the
beauty and merits of young people. Indul-
gence has perhaps been one of the prevailing
influences in bringing about the disrespect so
apparent now, that it is spoken of everywhere
as the "spirit of the age." We trust we have
not digressed from our subject too much, it is
always considered in keeping to speak of the
New Year in connexion with improvement,
and if we have trespassed we beg pardon, such
was not our intention.
	Standing upon the threshold of the new
year just dawning upon us, and having so re-
cently bid a brief farewell to the one now gone
forever, we are full and running over with
thoughts of the future. There are many great
questions at issue, that ere another new year
dawns will probably be decided. Some of these
are of infinite importance to this people; but
it is well to cultivate faith and hope to the ut-
most. Those who have the sublimest faith in
God and His interpositions are the most truly
happy. It lifts the human soul above doubts
and fears, and surrounds it with an atmos-
phere of serenity that dispels gloom.
	Life is so full of changes to all, even the
most favored, that the cultivation of every
Christian grace is necessary to ensure even a
moderate amount of happiness.
	If the children now growing up in Zion are
to become polished stones, as it were, in the
Structure, it is time their education commenced
in the cultivation of refinement and good
breeding. If they aspire to a high standard of
excellence physically, morally, intellectually
and spiritually, then there is also need of it
socially. There are many faults to correct in-
dividually and generally, and there is great
need of progress in many things, but if we as
individuals and as a people would seek to in-
spire lofty sentiments, and encourage high and
holy aims, with the knowledge the light and
understanding the Gospel imparts, surely
the blessing of God would attend such pro-
gressive efforts; and if only a few resolved to
carry out in their lives such vital principles,
they could have a powerful bearing upon the
associations and tendencies of those around
them. We are not alluding to individuals;
we know there is still some true courtesy
among the young, but we speak of generalities.
	May the year upon which we are all enter-
ing prove not only one of anticipation of great
and good results, but the realization of a change
which shall bring about, eventually, the res-
toration of rights to those now oppressed. May
our Father grant that the bills now before the
Forty-fifth Congress to better the condition of
society may be carried, and that all bills calcu-
lated to oppress loyal citizens of this great Re-
public may be null and void. May God move
upon the hearts of those in power, to so
amend the Constitution, as to give to all be-
neath its banners their respective rights and
privileges as one common brotherhood and
sisterhood, in their common country is our
prayer.
[handwritten] E. B. Wells


[Column 1]
