			R. S. REPORTS.

	Special meeting held in the Fourteenth
Ward Assembly Rooms Saturday Dec. 22,
1877, at 2 o'clock p. m., per appointment.
Miss Eliza R. Snow was chosen Chairman,
Mrs. E. B. Wells Secretary, and Miss Amy
Adams Assistant Secretary. President
John Taylor and others of the Apostles
were invited to be present at this meeting,
also Bishop Edward Hunter and Elder A.
M. Musser, but in consequence of important
business, the brethren of the Quorum of the
Twelve were unable to attend. However the
sisters were very happy to have the com-
pany of the Presiding Bishop Edward Hun-
ter and also Elder Musser. The Chairman
explained to the sisters why this special
meeting had been called. First, to transact
business pertaining to the Relief Society,
and Secondly to discuss "Woman's Suf-
frage," the subject of petitions to the
Forty-fifth Congress, etc. * Miss Snow stat-
ed that President Young had inaugurated a
movement previous to his death, which
she considered proper to carry out. At a
special meeting of the ladies of Weber Co.
President Young had appointed Mrs. Jane
S. Richards to preside over the various
branches of the Relief Society in that Stake
of Zion, and had appointed a meeting to be
convened three months from that time, at
which he requested they should bring a
written report from each society in the
county, of their progress and finance from
their first organization. Miss Snow then
said pursuant to this example it is the in-
tention to-day to appoint a board of officers
to preside in this Stake of Zion over the
various branches of the Relief Society in
this county, and to hold quarterly meetings
in this city, when reports will be read from
each district, or branch of Relief Society in
this Stake. After making these and other
more definite explanations, the Chairman
nominated Mrs. Mary I. Horne President of
the Relief Society of Salt Lake Stake of
Zion; the vote was unanimous. Mrs. Elmi-
na S. Taylor and Mrs. Sarepta Heywood
were chosen as her Counselors, and sus-
tained by the vote of the assembly. Mrs.
Elizadeth Howard was appointed Secretary,
and Mrs. Maria Wilcox Corresponding Sec-
retary, also sustained unanimously. The
first Quarterly Meeting of the various
branches of Relief Society of Salt Lake
Stake, will be held in the Fourteenth Ward
Assembly Rooms, Saturday March 23d, 1878
at 2 o'clock p. m. At this meeting it is ex-
pected a full report will be given of the
progress and financial condition of each re-
spective society by the secretaries of the
same. After the first report, quarterly re-
ports will be given every three months,
that all appropriations, disbursement and
matters of importance may be generally
known. There is no doubt but this move-
ment will be of great practical benefit to
those who labor in these organizations, as
well as of special interest to all who are
working for the elevation of mankind and
the progress of the Latter-day work. Miss
Snow said during her remarks to the sis-
ters, that should the sisters wish any aid in
making out their first reports she could
probably help them to references, as she
had by her, reports from the different
branches of the Relief Society, furnished
her in making up a full report for the Wo-
man's Department of the Centennial Ex-
position. After the first business had been
dispatched, the Chairman stated that the
women of this Territory had been solicited
by the National Suffrage Association, at
Washlngton, D. C., to aid them in obtain-
ing signatures for the Sixteenth Amend-

[Column 2]
ment to the Constitution of the United
States, which amendment is designed to
prohibit the several states and territories
from disfranchising United States citizens
on account of sex; otherwise to permit wo-
men to enjoy the rights and priviliges of
citizenship which is now denied them with
two exceptions Utah and Wyoming. Miss
Snow dwelt eloquently upon the heroism of
the ladies engaged in this movement in
the East, and the sisterly feeling they had
manifested for the women in Utah when
an attempt was made to repeal Woman
Suffrage in Utah two years ago; and further
that at the present time, a bill was before
the House of Congress waiting to be acted
upon, which was designed to deprive this
people of the priviliges they now enjoy.
She entreated those who had not yet be-
come citizens to do so without delay.
	Mrs. Horne arose and thanked the sis-
ters for the honor conferred upon her, in be-
ing called to preside in Salt Lake Stake of
Zion, over the various branches of the Re-
lief Society, said that she did not feel her-
self capable but by the assistance of the
spirit of God she would do her best in the
position to which she had been called. Mrs.
Horne made some remarks on the Suffrage
Question. Mrs. Zina D. Young expressed
her ideas upon Suffrage for Women and its
effects upon their elevation and progres-
sion, said many excellent things. Mrs.
Woodruff spoke upon the subject of duties
and trifies and their bearing upon mightier
matters, and exhorted the sisters to use
wisdom; alluded to the way in which the
sisters obtained the Suffrage.
	Bishop Edward Hunter addressed the sis-
ters for a few minutes, praising their good
works; thought he had a better opportunity
than any of the brethren to understand the
great good the sisters were accomplishing
in caring for the poor and sick, and in help-
ing to build Temples ; he said it was wo-
man's province to work in these noble and
benevolent spheres, and that they were bet-
ter adapted to minister in these callings
than the brethren. The Bishop alluded pa-
thetically to the days of sorrow that are to
come to the nations of the earth. Elder
A. M. Musser arose and addressed the sis-
ters, spoke of the necessity of taking out
their naturalization papers, those who had
been born in foreign lands, told them that
then it would be their privilege to pre-empt
or homestead land, which would help to
make them independent practically. Bro.
Musser said he had been thinking during
the meeting he should like to have some of
those honorable members of Congress; who
are urging special legislature, there in that
assembly. Elder Musser expressed his be-
lief in the essential help of woman, in all
that is calculated to elevate or ameliorate
the condition of society. His ideas were
quite in accordance with those expressed
in the poem:

		"The hand that rocks the cradle
		Is the hand that rocks the world."

He spoke of the opinions entertained of
this people abroad, and how they were
looked down upon, but said that a great
deal of prejudice was being removed. El-
der Musser is liberal in his views on what
is termed the Woman Question, he has
great faith in her capabilities and in her
spiritual influence.
	The Chairman then arose and made some
suggestive remarks and the meeting was
resolved into an Indignation Meeting, the
purport of it being to get an expression of
the feelings of the sisters on the petition
for Universal Suffrage and the Bill now be-
fore the House, in which it is proposed to

[Column 3]
repeal Woman's Suffrage in Utah, and dis-
franchise the Mormons wholesale.
	Mrs. Prescendia Kimball made quite a
patriotic speech on the subject; referred to
her ancestors as being valiant in the early
history of the United States, and concluded
by expressing her belief that God was for
this people. Mrs. Barney was very warm
upon the subject of freedom and independ-
ence, and illustrated her idea of union and
strength by relating the anecdote of the
King of Assyria and the bundle of sticks he
gave to his son to see if he could break
them. Her idea was "a long pull, and a
strong pull and a pull altogether," and we
would be sure to win. Mrs. Amanda Smith
spoke upon the subject feelingly, she allud-
ed briefly to the sufferings of this people at
the hands of this nation, and without re-
dress. This lady's husband and eldest son
were slain by the mob at Haun's mill, Mis-
souri, and a younger son was left by the
mob for dead. Mrs. Smith herself, was
shot at several times but the balls only
pierced her clothing. She had a babe in
her arms at the time, but it was no intim-
idation to the mob. Several other ladies
spoke a few minutes, and Mrs. Woodruff
proposed that the ladies express their in-
dignation and determination to stand by
the Constitution and laws of the United
States, and a desire that the day would
hasten when they could live under the laws
unmolested, by saying Amen, altogether,
which was three times repeated by the en-
tire congregation.
Remarks were make by several ladies
bearing upon the subject under discussion,
and a portion of the Christiancy Bill was
read to the assembly. Considerable gen-
uine enthusiasm was manifested by the la-
dies, and no doubt much thought has been
awakened to the subject of sustaining and
maintaining the freedom of religious lib-
erty, guaranteed by the Constitution, and
also to assist in soliciting for the Sixteenth
Amendment. Meeting adjourned sine die.

	HYRUM, CACHE Co., Nov. 20th, 1877.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	Our Young Ladies Mutual Improvement
Association was re-organized, Aug. 7th,
1877, with the following officers:
	Mrs. Boletta Allen, President.
	"	Mina Unsworth,		}
	"	Emma Williams,		}
	"	Saurine Liljenquist,	} Counselors.
	"	Anna C. Liljenquist,	}
	"	Phenetta Allen,		}
	"	Mary Evans,			}
	Miss Elnora Neilson, Secretary.
	"	Phenetta Anderson, Assis't Sec'y.
	On September 25, we were honored with
a visit from Sisters E. R. Snow, Zina D.
Young and E. Davis, and rejoiced in their
excellent teachings, for which we are truly
thankful and will try to profit by the same.
There was a full attendance of the Y. M. M.
I. Association; we had a good and interest-
ing time together, which will long be re-
member.
	Our Association numbers seventy-four
members. We have subscribed fifty dollars
to the Logan Temple, and since our organ-
ization we have made six quilts and nu-
merous other articles. We have purchased
two books, entitled "The Women of Mor-
mondom" and "The Palestine Tourists,"
which contain much good reading, and we
hope to make our meetings more interest-
ing with them.
	Knowing the good your valuable paper
is doing, we pray for its extended circula-
tion. Your sister in the Gospel,
			ELNORA NEILSEN, Secretary.


