PICTURES IN THE NEW YEAR.

	And so the Old Year has gone, and the
New Year ushered in. The last swirl of
the wings of old '77 has died away, and we
stand in the dim, misty dawn of the open-
ing year. How many buried hopes—how
many bitter tears—how many aching hearts,
have seared and blistered the pages of the
book now closed forever. And yet, me-
thinks I see, in the faint morning light,
fonr figures, with faces turned to the future,
awaiting the events which are coming with
stealthy steps.
	The first is an old man, bent and worn.
His dim, aged eyes are lifted, with scarcely
a passing interest to the scene which daily
unfolds to his gaze. His face is patient and
sad. His heart echoes no hope, but to die,
and that in peace. By his side stands a
woman, whose dignified mien and comely
form denote her the wife and mother.
Calmly and serenely she looks forward, for
she has been so purified by trials and sweet-
ened by adversity, that her conscience is
like a spring of clear water. She hath
taught her children righteousness and sur-
rounded them with the atmosphere of truth.
The third figure in the group, with restless
feet and eager eyes, scans the distant hori-
zon with hope, not fear; with confidence,
not doubt. The curving, melting outlines
of her form bespeak the maiden, whose
first sweet flush of youth has not yet been
weighted with care, or saddened with grief.
Her dreams are sweet, but pity 'tis they're


mostly dreams! but who can tell? beneath
the sparkling, dancing surface may be the
grandest possibilities of rich, ripe fruits.
Clinging to her arm, a little child with up-
lifted eyes and smiling lips looks bravely
forward. With the blank patience of child-
hood he calmly awaits the day, when time
shall usher in the life which the future
holds for him. He simply knows that all
his wants shall be supplied; and cares but
little for the rest.
	Do ye not see some one of these four pic-
tures, framed in your hearts and homes?
And if ye do, seek with love to comfort and
aid the faltering steps of age; lift some of
the burdening cares of ripe maturity; guide
the steps of wayward youth; and teach by
example, and engraft upon the mind of
rosy childhood Divine Truth.
	S. L. City, Jan. 1, 1877.	S. Y. D.


[For the EXPONENT.
