	HOME AFFAIRS.

	THE LEGISLATURE of the Territory will con-
vene on Monday, January 14.  There is, it is
said, a vast amount of business on hand which
demands early attention.  It is to be hoped
these wise men will accomplish something
beneficial to the interests of the Territory, dur-
ing the present session.
	WE HAVE R. S. Reports and other articles,
also poetry, for the paper, which we are not 
able to publish this issue.  Our paper is very
small, (and we women have so much to say,)

[Column 2]
that we are obliged to manage shrewdly to 
make room for it all.  If our contributors will
be patient, we will do the best we can to please
them all.
	AUNT EM'S Letter and a poem by Emile are
crowded out to make room for comments upon
the Christiancy Bill, which are in order at the 
present date, especially as the women of Amer-
ica are working industriously to do for all wo-
men citizens what Mr. C. and his friends are
trying so hard to undo, lest a few heroic wo-
men–a little band of patriots here in the 
mountains–should enjoy the same privilege
of voting etc. allotted to the dram-seller, the 
gambler, the libertine.
	CARISTMAS DAY passed off quietly, and 
everything seemed to combine to make the 
occasion a pleasant one.  The weather even
was suggestive of the merriment and delight
which usually characterizes the holidays.  The
children were greatly pleased with the snow,
and the little sleds and mufflers and all the 
paraphernalia of Santa Claus was well-timed.
The merchants and shopkeepers took all the 
pains possible to provide everything of the best
quality, and make a tasteful display of their 
goods before the holidays, and money was the 
only scarce article to supply the ever increas-
ing yearly demands of Santa Claus.
	THROUGH THE courtesy of Mr. James Dwyer,
we have received the neat little work on house-
keeping and cooking, "Six Little Cooks, or 
Aunt Jane's 'Cooking Glass,' " published by
Jansen, McClurg & Co., Chicago.  It is pecu-
liarly adapted for little girls, to interest them
in the science of cooking, which is one of the 
arts with which the young should fully acquaint
themselves, if they expect to be good wives
and mothers and help to make happy homes
by understanding the economy of cooking in
the best and readiest manner.  The book is 
written in the form of a story, and contains
recipes for all the varieties of dishes for dinner,
breakfast, etc., and suitable dishes for sick peo-
ple.
	TO-DAY THE "Juvenile Instructor," a favor-
ite periodical of the young people and especially
the children of Salt Lake City, commences its
thirteenth year.  It is an interesting little
paper, most ably edited, and should be in every
family in the Territory.  The paper is designed
for use in Sunday Schools, and always gives
some instructions for little learners on matters
of Church History.  In this way children may
obtain a knowledge of facts, that will be bene-
ficial to them and give them correct ideas of 
what has been endured in establishing this 
kingdom.  There are many very instructive
pieces about animals, birds, fishes, etc., that 
please the children and help them to acquire
information concerning the habits of dumb
creatures.  We congratulate the editor upon
his continued success, and recommend the Ju-
venile as a most valuable acquisition to the 
home literature of the Saints.
	THE PAST month two very destructive fires
have occurred in home manufacturing institu-
tions in Utah; the Woolen Factory burned
down in Brigham City, Dec. 21, was a very se-
rious loss to the people there in many ways.
It threw men out of employment, and of 
course was a great loss to individual families
on that account.  The people there are ener-
getically at work clearing away the debris to 
re-build, and are hopeful of having a factory in 
running order by the 4th of July next.  They
are certainly a most enterprising people.
	Mr. Clemetshaw, the owner of the Trunk
Factory burned in this city about the same
time, certainly deserves the sympathy and aid


[Column 1]

of friends. He had just succeeded in getting
a little start in business, and had prevented
the importation of this line of goods among
the merchants here. It is to be hoped that Br.
Cleme shaw will prosper in his efforts to re-
establish his branch of  home-manufacture.
	ON WEDNESDAY, the 19th of December last,
tne Relief Society of Big Cottonwood district
held their annual meeting, which we had the
pleasure of attending, in company with Miss
E. R. Snow and Mrs. M. I. Horne. The meet-
ing was well attended by the sisters of that
vicinity, although only two brethren were
present. The minutes read on the occasion
gave us a good idea of the sisters' energy and
devotion in good works. The annual report
was brief and comprehensive, and reflected
credit upon the Secretary, and also showed the
economy and good management which had
been used in disbursing means. The President
of the Society made a few opening remarks,
and explain[-]d to the sisters the object of the
petition to Congress now being circulated in
this Territory—to assist in obtaining Universal
Suffrage. Miss E. R. Snow, Mrs. M. I. Horne
and Mrs. E. B. Wells each made some remarks.
The subjects treated upon were home manufac-
ture, the benefit of women's organizations,
the elevation of society, the bill before Con-
gress introduced by Christiancy; the building
of Temples, and other important matters relat-
ing to the latter-day work.
	THERE ARE so many items of interest in
writing up the editorial columns for home, that
it is impossible, in so small a paper as ours, to
mention all that would be gratifying to our
readers; but we would like to call the attention
of the people to the Commission Store for
Home Manufactures. They are constantly
adding to their stock new varieties of such
goods and articles as can be made in this Ter-
ritory. They have now so no very handsome
home maufactured ingrain carpeting. The
quality of the goods far surpasses that of the
same kind made in the East. There is no
sham about it; the colors are very bright and
would give a winter room a warm and cheer-
ful appearance. They have stocking-yarn of
a great variety of colors; table-covers and coun-
terpanes to suit the different tastes of the pur-
chasers; silk neckties and laces made here by
the sisters. An elegant assortment of flowers
for hats, bonnets, caps, etc. Shoes, stockings
and many other articles useful and warm for
this cold weather. Ladies and gentlemen,
please call at the Home Commission Store
first, before going elsewhere to purchase win-
ter supplies in this line.
	POEMS BY E. R. SNOW.—We have received,
from the Author, Miss E. R. Snow, a copy
of her second volume of poems. This book
has been published here, at the Deseret News
Office. It is tastefully bound in cloth, and has
upon the lid an artistic monogram. In the
front is a steel engraving of the author; the
picture gives to Miss Snow the characteristic
expression of deep thought, which is so well
known to those who are personally acquainted
with her features iu repose. There is no need
to introduce this talented lady to our readers,
for her fame as a writer has long been estab-
lished, and she is known here and abroad as
"Zion's Poetess."  Her book will speak for it-
self—there is no need for us to laud it; those
who read it will find a lofty tone of sentiment
in all the poems it contains. Many of the
poems are historical and will help to perpetu-
ate incidents and events in the lives of this
people. History combined in poetry is a por-
tion of fine art. The book was reverently dedi-

[Column 2]

cated by the author to President Brigham
Young previous to his death. Now, at its
publication, it closes with a very touching
poem written of his death and burial, entitled
'The Funeral of President Brigham Young."
The book is certainly a choice and valuable ac-
quisition to Mormon literature. It is a work
all young people's Societies should add to their
libraries. The price of the book is $1.25. We
say, Go forth, little volume, aud may you win
admiration for your pleasant companionship
and blessings for your author, by suggesting
happy thoughts, noble impul[-]es and holy am-
bitions.
	POEMS BY E. R. SNOW.—The second volume
of Miss E. R. Snow's poems is now ready for
the public. The literary effusions of Zion's
favorite poetess are of a high order and in-
spired with a heavenly spirit. They treat on
topics of peculiar interest to the Latter-day
Saints, and convey truths of great import
couched in chaste and lofty language. The
new volume contains upwards of one hundred
pieces and a fine steel engraving,—an excellent
portrait of the gifted authoress, handsomely
bound in full English cloth and neatly lettered
for the library or centre table. It forms a suit-
able Christmas or New Year's gift, and will
be sold at a low figure, to place it within the
reach of all. We cordially commend it to the
public aud have no doubt that the Relief So-
cieties will aid in bringing it to the attention
of the people of Utah. The book is published
at the "Deseret News" office and is a valuable
addition to the literature of the Territory.—
"Deseret News."
	SERICULTURE—The Deseret Silk Association
met at the Fireman's Hall December 8th, Mrs.
Zina D. Young presiding.
	Mrs. Young said she was devotedly engaged
in this work. The question was often asked,
was there money in it? Her answer was, Yes
by opening the way whereby hundreds could
find employment. It was for our own interest
to take hold of this branch of industry. Our
greatest drawback was the want of machinery
to prepare the silk for the home market, but
there was some prospect of getting it soon. She
had just returned from a visit to Farmington.
While there, she saw a lady knitting stockings
of silk and wool.
	Mr. Graves, of Provo, gave an interesting ac-
count of the progress of silk culture in the
southern part of Utah. He reported that he
had given to the sisters in the First Ward of
Provo an acre of ground to raise mulberry trees
on. There was not a place in Utah County
but had raised some silk. American Fork had
taken the lead in silk-raising.
	Mrs. Barney said it was over two years since
this association was organized. During that
time we had been corresponding east and west
for the benefit of this home industry. She had
traveled all over this Territory preaching silk;
trying to get the people to plant out mulberry
trees, and felt satisfied with our progress so far.
The society was a little crippled for means at
present, owing to buying so many cocoons of a
poor quality last year, which were a dead loss
until we get machinery to work them. This
Territory would be dotted all over with mul-
berry trees wherever they will grow, and we
would keep on until we make the industry a
success.
	Mr. George B. Wallace said he had been in-
terested in [-]his branch of business for a long
time and there were no doubts in his mind as
to it b[-]coming a success. Our bench lands
would be very valuable to plant out mulberry
trees on. We ought to encourage all home in-
dustries, find employment for our children,

[Column 3]

keep them around us and we would be a hap-
pier aud more blessed people. He was going to
plant out some mulberry seed.
	Mrs. Margaret P. Young said there was noth-
ing to hinder us from wearing silk dresses made
by our own hands if we would carry out the
counsels that had been given us.
	Mrs. Zina D. Young reported that Mrs. Car-
don, of Logan, was prepared to give a limited
number of young ladies lessons in the art of
reeling silk, on very reasonable terms.
	Meeting adjourned till the first Friday in
January, at this place at 3 p. m.
	R. SIMPSON, Secretary.


