BY BLANCHE BEECHWOOD.

	This wonderful bill! purports to disfran-
chise the women of Utah, and also to de-
prive this people of rights and priviliges,
not only accorded them as citizens of a free
Republic, but that they have fairly earned
as pioneers of a new country. Settling a
desert land and building up towns and
cities, enduring all the toil and fatigue in-
cident to a frontier life is deserving dis-
franchisement according to the equitable
judgment of some wise men who talk about
honor and honesty and sit in high places to
make laws for the nation.
	But for the bone and sinew of the men
and women of this community, and some
whose graves are now fresh and green in
our memories, this beautiful valley and this
broad expanse of Territory, with its pros-
perous towns and villages, would never
have been wrested from sterility, and the
savage hordes which infested it.
	Having made homes in the wilderness
for thousands of industrious loyal citizens,
forsooth, some lazy, trifling office-seeker
would defraud an honest people of their
hard-earned homes and the freedom which
to true hearted men and women, is dearer
than life. Among other artistically(?) writ-
ten clauses there is one relating to the
"elective franchise" conferred upon women
in this Territory which we will republish,
as it relates specially to the subject for
which the women of our dear Republic are
now laboring earnestly and bravely. Here
it is. "And that the act of the Territori-
al legislature of said Territory entitled "An
act conferring upon women the elective
franchise; approved February twelfth, eigh-

[Column 2]

teen hundred and seventy, and all other
acts or parts of acts of said Territorial legis-
lature, so far as the same may have estab-
lished, or attempted to establish, any other,
or different qualification of electors in said
Territory, or any part thereof, from those
in this section above provided, are hereby
disapproved, annulled and repealed."
	The Bill goes on to provide for a secret
ballot, etc. Mr. Christiancy and those who
have labored indefatigably to get up this
extraordinary bill, should know how the
blood of true patriotic, American women
boils with indignation when reading this
miserable attempt at a pretext to deprive
them of what their forefathers fought and
bled for:—LIBERTY. Not only do we feel
that we are justly entitled to the ballot by
birth and American blood, but by the hard-
ships of a pioneer life shared with our hus-
bands, brothers and fathers. There are in
Utah New England women, daughters of
the old Puritans who will not easily be si-
lenced, and after forsaking home and friends,
enduring trials worse than death, they will
defend the rights so dearly earned, with
the true patriotism of old '76. We would
like to see this Mr. Christiancy and his col-
leagues who know so well how to dispense
justice, and how to dispose of the vexed
question "what to do with the Mormons."
	The enemies of the Mormons should not
be slow in according to this most honorable
(?) gentleman a vote of thanks for so ably
expressing their sentiments, and aiding
Congress to dispatch business of importance
in a wholesale manner.
	Does the right honorable (?) Mr. Chris-
tiancy think that Mormon women will sit
tamely down and be dispossessed of their
just rights? Rights earned, if not inherited,
by peril, by toil, and by sacrifice offered up
with bleeding hearts:—murdered prophets,
starved and ill-clad children, plundered
homes, untimely deaths of fathers, mothers,
brothers, sisters, babes and friends—and for
all these ten thousand wrongs recorded in
the annals on high, there is no redress for
Mormon women; and even this is not
enough, men must concoct bills to push
them to the last extreme. Of the issue of
such brave (?) legislation the future shall
speak in the voice of "fifty thousand daugh-
ters of Zion."
	S. L. City, Dec. 29, 1877.


[For the EXPONENT.
