[CONTINUED.]

	If I were talking to the brethren, I should
say no man in this church has the privilege or
right to enter into business, or go at anything
without having God in his thoughts, and ask-
ing for guidance and direction in all his ways.
And I will say to the mothers and sisters, now
give your children this correct tradition in
their yonth. As I was talking to one of my
wives, she said, “Who is there that teaches her
children these things?” I turned to one and
said, “There is one of my wives she has chil-
dren full of faith, because she made it her busi-
ness to teach them the tradition to believe in
God the Father, to call upon Him continually;
and God was in their thoughts from morning
until evening, all the time they were awake.”
Says I, “There is the woman; she has taught
her children.” Now I know that mothers can
teach their children; and they ought to teach
them, and this is my duty to tell you what to
do in this case.  Remember to traditionate your
children in the nurture and admonition of the
Lord, Teach them as they ought to be taught,
and they will have faith from their youth up,
and the Spirit of the Lord to direct them, that
they may never lose sight of this faith in Christ,
and our Heavenly Father; and when they are
old they will not depart from the good path. I
am firm in the faith, and verily believe, that
if mothers will bring up their children aright,
and give them that early training that they
should have, their children will grow up and
never depart from the path of rectitude and
truth.
	The mothers are the moving instruments in
the hands of Providence to guide the destinies
of nations.  Let the mothers of any nation
teach their children not to make war, the chil-
dren would grow up and never enter into it.
Let the mothers teach their children, “War,
war upon their enemies, yes, war to the hilt!”
and they will be filled with this spirit.  Con-
sequently you see at once what I wish to im-
press upon your mind is, that the mothers are
the machinery that give zest to the whole man,
and guide the destinies and lives of men upon
the earth.  Now, then, I want to talk upon
other matters.  You can  just as you please;
you can rule this Stake of Zion.  Why, here
are Brother Peery and his two Counselors, they
cannot move one step unless you say so.  You
do not understand this, do you?  Why, all the
men in this Stake of Zion can go to some other
country, but when the ladies say thus and so,
all the men have to come to the standard. “But
we have an independence, you know; and I
would not like to pin my destiny to any wo-
man’s apron string.” But you see the force of
this education, which is forced upon them by
the teachings received in early childhood.
	(To be continued.)


