FLOWERS.

	THERE is a gift that is almost a blow, and
there is a kind word that is munificence;
so much is there in the way of doing
things.

	A SAD thing is the life that gives itself
up to dreams and calls weakness strength—
as if the misty purposelessness that too of-
ten mars genius were itself genius!

	MAN can never come up to his ideal
standard; it is the nature of the immortal
spirit to raise that standard higher and
higher, and as it goes from strength to
strength still upward or onward. Accord-
ingly the wisest and greatest men are ever
the most modest.

	"THERE is nothing," says Plato, "so de-
lightful as the hearing and speaking of
truth." For this reason there is no conver-
sation so agreeable as that of a man of in-
tegrity, who hears without any intention to
betray, and speaks without any intention
to deceive.

	No great work of imagination was ever
performed by a merely imaginative mind.
Men do not dream immortal poems and pic-
tures. Common sense must be kept in
view, for it will lend imagination greater
strength than it could possibly have unaid-
ed, all the more because it will check its
exhausting itself in fruitless vagaries.

	NATURE has written upon the flowers
that sweeten the air, upon the breeze that
rocks the flower upon its stem, upon the
rain-drops that swell the mighty river, up-
on the dew-drops that refresh the smallest
sprig of moss that rears its head in the des-
ert, upon the ocean that rocks every ship
upon its breast, upon every penciled shell
that sleeps in the caverns of the deep, as
well as upon the mighty sun that warms
and cheers the millions of creatures that
live in its light—upon all is written—"None
of us liveth to himself."

	A GENTLEMAN coming into the room of
the late Dr. Barton, told him that Mr. Vow-
el was dead. "What!" said he, Vowel
dead! Let us be thankful that it was
neither u nor i."


[Column 1]
GENEALOGICAL
LATTER-DAY SAINTS who come from the states o
New England, New York, New Jersey, Pennsylvania
or Delaware, or whose ancestors were natives of either
of those states, who desire to obtain their Genealogies,
could not do better than to e ploy B. F. Cummings. Jr.,
who proposes to go east for that [-]urpose during the 
p esent Winter.  Parties interested should send for Cir-
cular giving terms and full instructions.
	Address,
	B. F. CUMMINGS, JR...
	Salt Lake City, Utah.

[Column 2]
