		TO THE YOUNG SISTERS.

	We, young sisters, should be alive to our
duties as a Mutual Improvement Associa-
tion. Our beloved President Young; in
his wisdom, caused to be organized these
Associations for our learning and improve-
ment, and also for a wiser purpose even,
that we might awake ourselves from our
slumbers, to know in whom we believe and
in what we believe. Heretofore we have
glided quietly along, day after day, and
year after year, thinking and caring
little about the things of God; but now is
the day that we are commanded to awake,
and arise, and put on the armor of Christ,
and serve God with all our hearts. I think
and ponder in my heart many times, of our

[Column 2]
conduct as daughters of Zion, and wonder
how it is that we have been left to go in
the path of folly and nonsense for so long,
but I suppose it was necessary that we
might know and realize the difference be-
tween the two paths. It is often said that
as the heavens are higher than the earth,
so are God's ways higher than our ways;
then I, for one, think it is high time we
were beginning to learn the ways of the
Lord, for if we ever expect to associate
with holy angels and dwell in the presence
of God, we have got to undergo a great
change in all our ways. We must become
polite and refined in our manners; our very
thoughts must undergo a great change;
yes, our thoughts and words must become
pure and chaste. Let us young sisters go
hand in hand in the path that has been
marked out for us; let us not be behind in
any good thing, but show by our examples
that they are worthy of imitation. Let us
be on our guard, and watch that we are not
led astray; we may think that we are strong,
but let us beware, for those not of us say,
"The way to overthrow Mormonism is to
bring here their smooth-tongued, polished,
fascinating men of the world, to influence
and lead away the daughters of Zion;" how
many of the daughters of Zion have been
duped by men who had no fear of God, no
regard for virtue, no integrity of character.
It has been the fate of many. Many a fond
mother has seen her daughter in the path
of ruin, and her tears and pleadings have
been of no avail. The daughters would
not heed or see the consequences; they
would persist in their disobedience and
"marry for love," but in most instances, the
first thing they know the husband must go
away, "to look after business," of course;
but the sequel generally is, they are for-
saken and left to abide the consequences of
desertion the best they can. This is only
the most general denoument. In hundreds
of instances the tenderest feelings of wife
and mother are cruelly betrayed.
	But I trust we girls who are members of
these organizations will take a different
course, and if brought in contact with such
characters, not be influenced by them in
any way, but maintain our own dignity and
remain true and steadfast in the principles
of our holy religion. We are their supe-
riors, and not inferiors. Let us honor our
divine principles; we profess to be the
choice offspring of God, and have His Holy
Priesthood in our midst: then let us stand
up and defend the right, and never be led
astray from that which we believe, but be
proud to think that we are among the fa-
vored few that dwell upon the earth, and
never, NEVER dare to lower ourselves to be
led by those that dwell in darkness, and
know not God. I most earnestly hope that
none of us will ever be guilty of marrying
an unbeliever, or of being married out of
the order of the Holy Priesthood, that we
may be recognized by Him and all the holy
ones that dwell in the celestial kingdom of
our God. May we live obedient to the
commandments of God; that we may re-
ceive His blessing, and our posterity after
us. May we be a bold and valiant band in
the truth, and do the will of our Father in
Heaven.							E. S.


