THE WOMEN OF MORMONDOM.

	The Provo "Enquirer" thus speaks upon
a matter which will doubtless interest all
patrons of the EXPONENT:
	"While in American Fork on Thursday
last we met E. W. Tullidge, Esq., author
of 'The Life, of Brigham Young' and 'The
Women of Mormondom.' He is traveling
through Utah County for the purpose of
advancing the sale of the last named work,
a great number of copies of which he has
with him.
	"Considerable has been said of the 'Wo-
men of Mormondom,' but until now the
people of this county have had no opportu-
nity to form a correct or just estimate of its
merits. Mr. Tullidge is a gentleman who,
from long years of experience and observa-
tion, is capable of representing to the world
the facts relating to the history and social
life of the Mormons. He is not only thor-
oughly conversant with the subjects he has
written upon, but is one of the most gifted
literary men of America. In Utah he is
admitted to be so, and were it not for his
well known Mormon associations and predi-
lections we have no doubt his genius would
be more generally acknowledged.
"The 'Women of Mormondom' is verit-
ably a woman's book. It represents that
class of human beings so universally pitied,
maligned and scorned—the Mormon women;
we say pitied, because their social relation-
ship to the Mormon work not being under-
stood or appreciated, has been viewed by
some as the result of fanatical teachings, or
the exercise over their minds of undue in-
fluences, and for those imaginary reasons
the women of Mormondom have been made
the objects of pity rather than of condem-
nation. While appreciating this charitable
view of their condition, however, the wo-
men of Utah, through Mr. Tullidge, have
undertaken to place themselves in a proper
light before the world. They are voluntary
disciples of Mormonism and esteem their
relationship thereto as wives, mothers and
saints, above all else on earth. This is 
their position, and they do not wish the
world to be misled in regard to it.
	"The book has been published by the wo-
men of Utah, and, besides the moral good
it will accomplish, it is likely to prove a
pecuniary advantage to the Relief and Re-
trenchment Societies, as a considerable por-
tion of the means derived from its sale is
to be applied for the benefit of those organ-
izations.


