REFORMATION IN ORTHOGRAPHY.

	It seems to be a day of reformation, a
time of improvement, in more things than
one.  There is scarcely anything in our
everyday lives, but that needs more or less
re-modeling.  Considerable has been said,
and a little has been done, in regard to or-
thography.  All admit the great need of an
improvement in our mode of spelling.  A
great amount of time is required to master
the art, more than we can spare out of our
short lives.  Very few ever become profi-
cient in spelling; there is no regular sys-
tem, but each word has to be learned sepa-
rately, and with the vast amount of words
in the English language, it takes a great deal
of time that ought to be spent in learning
other branches of school education.
	Now, if we could have a system that
spells by sound, it would be much easier,
and much time would be saved, which is
an important item with the young of the
rising generation.  It is better to learn cor-
rectly at first; it is very hard to erase from
the mind false impressions, and it is diffi-
cult to receive the truth when the mind is
clogged with error. False ideas and bad
habits and customs by long usage become
second nature, and it is hard to discern be-
tween truth and error until the mind is free
from prejudice and false notions; hence the
necessity of beginning the education right.
When I see children beginning to go to
school, and learning the present system (or
no system) of spelling, I look with pity
upon so much waste of time, and so much
needless labor.  There is a right way to
do everything, and we as Latter-day Saints
ought to be able to introduce a better mode
of spelling than any that exists at the pres-
ent time.  Our alphabet is very imperfect,
not having all the sounds represented, and
having some letters that are worse than
useless, they are w, x, y, q, c.  Many let-
ters are used where they should not be
used; some letters represent two sounds;
this should not be; one letter should not
represent more than one sound.  For those
letters that are discarded it will be neces-
sary to substitute others, or adopt new ones.
Now my idea of spelling is to analyze words
and find the sounds that make the word,
and when we have found out what sounds
are in a word, there will be no trouble in
spelling it correctly; nor any trouble in
knowing how to pronounce a word when
we hear it spelled.  The true way of spell-
ing is very easy to the new beginner, more
so than is possible to those who have re-
ceived their early impressions incorrectly;
yet they, by the assistance of the Holy
Spirit, will be enabled to discern the truth.
The voice or breathing sound is necessary
to articulate letters, therefore no vowel
should be allowed to end a consonant., but
they should be sounded, ub, ud, um, un,
and so on.  Every sound that can be made,
or is used in speaking, should have a char-
acter to represent it, and have place in the
Alphabet.
	The letters we should adopt that we have
not got are sounds such as these signify:
ush, uzh, ung; uth flat, uth sharp; e should
be used instead of y, oo, as in book, should
be used instead of w; uh is the voice or
breath, and should be used where h is now
used; u should have but one sound as a, e,
i, each have.  The way we pronounce it,
it has two sounds, e and u, yu; w is a com-
bination of sounds, so cannot be a letter
but a word; letters should not be spelt by
words, but words by letters; it should not
be possible to spell a letter, they are, or
should be but one sound.
	The old characters can be retained as
far as they go, or new ones adopted, but
none should represent more than one sound.
There are thirty-four sounds in our lan-
guage.  One kind of letter is sufficient, the
capitals being made larger than the others.
It is difficult to write on this subject as there
are not characters to represent all the sounds.
It might be made plainer to the under-
standing by speaking upon it.  The modi-
fied oo as in book, and the full sound oo as
in boon, may be represented by one char-
acter, or two, as may be determined here-
after, giving the Alphabet thirty-five let-
ters.
ub.			ut.			a as in hate.
ud.			uv.			"	" hat.
uf.			uz.				" " hard.
ug.			uch.			"	" hall.
uk.			ush.			e	" meet.
ul.			uzh.			"	" met.
um.			ung.			i	" ride.
un.			uth, sharp.	"	" bit
up.			uth, flat.		o	" note.
ux.			uj.			oo	" book,
us.			uh as in nut.	u	" rule.
ow as in owl.
	S. L, City, Nov. 18, 1877.	E. N. G.


