A REVERIE.

Is there not light enough for all,
That some may languish in a dungeon wall?
Is there not air and sunshine, Oh my God!
For all that dwell above the earth's green sod?
That some may never feel the zephyrs breath,
But walk through life as in the shades of death.

Is there not room for all or must some give
Their fleeting breath that others still may live;
Not bread for all thy children here below,
That some the bitter pangs of hunger know,
And while bright streams of water flowing by,
Must fit the deepest anguish thirsting die.

Is there not love enough for all on earth,
Or must some have a desolated hearth:
That one may drink the sunshine pure and high
And others deep within the darkness sigh?
Tho’ sweet and clear may be the minstrel's strain,
Its notes are touched in hearts by keenest pain.

Upon the breeze we hear the happy song,
A wail of anguish bears the next along,
Laughter comes mingled with deep sorrow's cry,
And comes unto our heart the question why—
The same hand gives, the same hand takes away,
'Tis hard to learn life’s lesson day by day.

Our earth is stricken sore her borders fair
Blighted and perishing with sin and care;
God’s providences oft seems strange and dim,
Our eyes too weak and blind to look to Him
Who gave his life upon the cross to tell,
Our Father loved his children, Oh! so well.

He gave the noblest, best beloved of all.
And through the One saved millions from the fall;
And when we doubt his love could we but turn
To Calvary’s cross where love doth purest burn,
Its radiant beam through ages still as bright
As it shone forth upon that bitter night.

When those who loved him stood afar and wept,
And fear and horror o’er the wicked crept;
As darkness terrible and thunder's roil
Shrouded and shook the earth from pole to pole,
While from the Cross His voice in prayer arose
To God for mercy on his bitter foes.

"The world which sets this right,” we there shall
	know
Why purest joy is linked to keenest woe;
If we but seek the paths which Christ has trod
And steadfast hold unto the "iron rod,"
Life's mists and darkness all shall flee away,
Before the dawn of the Millennial day.
								Hope.


[For the Exponent.
