Save the Wild Birds An Appeal from Bird Students to Western People. By J. H. Paul N his "Birds of California,” Mr. Dawson claims that a tremendous gain has been made during the last three decades in the sentimental attitude toward birds. With the younger generation, at least, this is undoubtedly the fact. Few boys today pursue birds with sticks or stones, with flippers or guns; while the former indiscriminate robbing of nests has given way to intelligent interest in the ways of wild birds and a solicitous care for their welfare. Mr. Dawson thinks this change extends also to adults. There now exists, he says, "a splendid and alert interest in birds on the part of the American people; and to such a body of interest science presents its case with confidence and rejoicing." The Case for Bird Protection That case, the basis of this appeal, is the usefulness of birds to man— their importance to his material interests, his educational growth, and his religious nature. The proof that man can barely live, or that he cannot live at all, without the help of the millions of birds that protect crops, forests, trees, from insects and rodents, and even man himself WILSON AND NORTHERN PHALAROPE  from flies and gnats—this is a demonstration due to the insight of men like the president of the British Association for the Advancement of Science—men who step beyond the indoor laboratory of science to the greater laboratory of rivers, fields, and hills. The materials thus gathered they proceed to translate into the consciousness of the people rather than into new editions of technical books. Will not this appeal find response among people of strong religious convictions? Especially among those who have had training in scientific method? Bible students will respond; alone in all ancient literature, the Jewish scriptures make both frequent and correct statements concerning bird life and ways. Each biblical reference to birds, as Mrs. Porter in her "Birds of the Bible' has shown, is true to fact, while other ancient literature, whenever dealing with birds, is filled with error, superstition, and grotesque mistakes and misrepresentations. Bird Appreciation a Modern Sentiment It is the view of the British Association for the Advancement of Science that the birds of the world are the friends, the allies, the defenders of mankind.