Happenings By Annie Wells Cannon
OCTOBER—season of rich content: how kind nature holds out her hands laden with gorgeous flowers, and luscious fruits in a setting of golden fields.
MRS. GRACE ABBOTT, in a warning to parents to keep their boys at home, says: "Home conditions cannot be worse than those on the road, and the friendless boy has little chance for success." Miss Abbott advises for modernization in the entire American system of relief.
MILDRED DIDRICKSEN of Texas, now the Olympic games are over, is considered probably the greatest girl athlete the world has ever known. In a span of three years she has been entrant in 336 contests and won 334. At the Olympics all the championships for women were won by United States contestants except the discus throw, which was won by Miss Walch of Poland.
MRS. SAMARANDA BRAESCU has established a new world parachute jump for women, dropping from an altitude of 24,000 feet, while Mrs. Frances Morralls and Mrs. Louise Thaden claim the endurance record in the air, having remained over Curtis field 196 hours, and Miss Florence Klingsmith of Minneapolis in a run of 206 miles an hour, won the high speed trophy, all showing great endurance and prowess among women in aeronautics.
HATTIE CARRAWAY of Arkansas led in her party by a big majority for the nomination of United States senator, as did Mabel Barrett of Oklahoma for congress. From sports to politics was a short step for women this summer and both parties are giving place to women on national and state tickets.
EDITH ROCKEFELLER McCORMICK, once called the world's richest woman, died recently, leaving the bulk of her great fortune to a business friend. Before her eccentric attitude after taking up psychoanalysis and reincarnation belief, she was noted for her generosity and helpfulness. She founded and endowed the John McCormick institution for infectious diseases. She brought grand opera to Chicago and gave five million dollars to keep it alive, was a patron of the arts and most generous to progressive institutions. For many years she was Chicago's social dictator.
PRINCESS DER LING, charming and vivacious Chinese lady, has written an interesting book called "Old Banking Methods of China."
PATRICIA WENTWORTH'S new novel, "The Red Shadow," is said to be very entertaining but not a work of art.
MISS M. E. DELAFIELD has written a satirical novel, "A Good Man's Love." While a delicious bit of fun, it is also a good satire on English society.
MARGARET CARLYLE AITKEN, niece of Thomas Carlyle. Recently died. Her old home in Dumfries, Scotland, was full of Carlyle relics. Here she used to relate to her friends many interesting stories of her uncle and his literary friends, not only English but also American, Longfellow, Emerson and others, at whose homes she visited.