Notes from the Field PAGEANT HELD IN Blackfoot Stake. OX the afternoon of February 28, 1932, the Relief Society board of Blackfoot, Idaho, presented a Washington Bicentennial pageant in the L.D.S. Tabernacle. Nearly five hundred people enjoyed it. A tableau, representing the painting of George Washington's picture by Stewart, formed a beautiful background for the pageant. In the tableau, Mrs. George Marshall was Martha; Alan M. Cannon was George Washington, and Gardner Barclay, the artist, Stewart. Each character in the pageant gave interesting information about George Washington, from babyhood: to the close of his remarkable career in 1799. Fourteen people represented the fourteen most important years in his life. G. Byron Done and Peter R. Johnston, as ghosts behind the scenes, introduced the years. Mr. Charles. Shirley, on his violin, and Miss Margaret Millick on the piano, were heard throughout the entire performance playing oldfashioned minuets and _ patriotic music. The pageant ended with the cast and the entire audience singing the "Star Spangled Banner." Special BLACKFOOT SPONSORED BY STAKE numbers added interest to the pageant theme. The prologue was written by Mrs. Sara G. Hoge, a member of the board. The pageant was arranged and directed by Blanche B. Johnston, Emma J. Beck, members of the board, and Mrs. Julia Howe Hegsted. Raft River Stake. HE following item of interest comes from Raft River stake. "The Raft River stake Relief Society was reorganized May 14, 1932. President Abbie C. Ottley found it necessary to resign her position due to the fact that her husband has been ill for several months, and requires constant attention. She has labored faithfully the past nine years, sometimes under very trying circumstances. Much of her splendid service came from her great faith and through her untiring efforts to serve the best interests of the people in temporal as well as spiritual matters. We are sure that in her retirement from office she still desires to be of service to her people, and we know she has the love and best wishes of all our sisters." The General Office of Relief So602 ciety has greatly appreciated Sister Ottley's fine cooperation, and heartily endorse this tribute to her from her own stake. North Sanpete Stake. HE following interesting program was received from North Sanpete Stake Relief Society Visiting Teachers' Convention. Singing, "My Prayer;' Prayer, Relief Society Teacher; Trio, "When the Mists Have Cleared Away;" Words of Welcome, Ward President; Scripture reading, The Beatitudes, Matthew 5:1-12; Vocal solo, "Thou Art My God," Etude May 1932 or Resignation. Address, "The Visiting Teachers from the Hostess' Point of View": (1) The Benefits I Receive from the Teachers' Visit; (2) Development I Receive from the Discussion of the Topic; (3) Development I Receive Through my Contribution to Those Less Fortunate. Duet, "Angry Words." Address, "The Beatitudes," Stake Officer: (1) Blessed are the Merciful; (2) Blessed are the Poor in Spirit; (3) Blessed are the Peace Makers. Checking up on the score cards and announcing the results. Closing song, "Nay, Speak No. Ill." Benediction, a Teacher. A social hour, with refreshments, completed a very beneficial and delightful convention. Kanab Stake. REPORT from Kanab stake comes as follows: "On Friday, June 17, 1932, Kanab stake held a very successful and well attended Relief Society teachers' convention at Alton, (Utah. Representatives from each of the seven wards in the stake were in attendance. Roll call showed 160 Relief Society members present and 12 stake board members. The object of the convention was to show the great benefit derived from RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE visits made to the homes by the Relief Society teachers, and the encouragement and appreciation that should be given the teachers for their efforts. Each ward was asked to prepare an original dramatization on teachers' work. They responded with some very excellent efforts. The music was also furnished by the various wards. The first meeting was called to order at 10 a. M., by Stake President Bergetta Covington, who gave a few words of welcome, encouragement and praise to the teachers. At noon the assemblage repaired to the pine grove, near the Twin Pine Pavilion, where a delicious luncheon was served, and the members from various wards had the opportunity of informally renewing old friendships with each other. 'Toasts to the teachers were given from each ward. Musical numbers were also rendered. As a special treat ice cream was served to all those present by the sisters of the Alton ward. At two o'clock another meeting was held where the dramatizations were continued. A story written by Sister Amy Stork of the Orderville ward, and chosen as the best story submitted in the stake during the recent short story contest, was read by Sister Esther Lamb. Stake President Heber J. Meeks, and Counselor Charles R. Pugh were in attendance and gave interesting talks. All who attended the convention felt that the dramatizations and other numbers on the program were very effective in arousing enthusiasm and appreciation of teachers' work. Mount Ogden Stake: Ward.) HE picture on the following page is of the historical pageant, "The Realization of a Dream," presented in the Twelfth Ward, Mount (Twelfth NOTES FROM THE FIELD 603 pig j PITT 'es Ae Beye q Pe: Es 8 24 oy y ty % c: THE REALIZATION OF A DREAM Ogden Stake, Ogden, Utah. Upper center, officers of the first Relief Society surrounded by members, each of whom represents some outstanding achievement of the organization from its inception until the present time.. The pageant was written and directed by Jeanette McKay Morrell and Helen Hinckley. Minidoka Ward.) MONG the interesting pictures recently received, is one from Stake: (Rupert First Rupert First Ward, Minidoka Stake. The feature of the Annual Day was the presentation of the pageant "The Organization of the Relief Society in Nauvoo." The report is as follows: "The president of our Relief Society, Mary J. Bailey, being Emma Smith; Lucy Mack Smith, Sarah M. Cleveland, Sophia Packard, Philinda Merrick, Martha Knight, Elizabeth Ann Whitney, Phoebe N. 'Wheeler, Elvira A. Coles, Sarah M. Kimball, Eliza R. Snow, Sophia Robinson, were the characters we used. THE ORGANIZATION OF THE RELIEF SOCIETY 604 Cache Stake Relief Society: NE of the most outstanding entertainments of the Cache Stake Relief Society annual day held on May 18, of this year was a testimonial given in honor of our four living presidents. "We have in our Stake three living past presidents and our present president, so it was decided to hold a testimonial in honor of these wonderful women, Sisters Lucy S. Cardon, who at one time was a General Board member, Kinnie Ballif Caine, Lizzie Benson Owen and Lula Yates Smith. Three hundred and fifty women assembled in the Fourth Ward Chapel, which had been beautifully decorated with tulips, lilacs, potted flowers and ferns. Here a very splendid program was rendered, paramount among the numbers given being a paper on the lives of these presidents, with responses by each. A corsage was presented and pinned on each president as she responded. beautiful selections. RELIED SOCIETY MAGAZINE flowers and words were bestowed upon them while they were yet with us to show them our gratitude and appreciation for their labors. "We also were most greatly honored by the presence of our General Relief Society presidency, Sisters Louise Y. Robison, Amy B. Lyman, Julia A. Child who thrilled their listeners with words of inspiration and encouragement. Our Stake Relief Society Chorus rendered three beautiful selections.
At the close of the program all adjourned to the recreation hall which had been transformed into a veritable fairy bower, with masses of flowers, rugs, wicker sets, and easy chairs arranged about the large room, also two large serving tables with lace covers, centered with blue bowls filled with yellow tulips and yellow and blue tapers in silver holders at each end. Eight young ladies dressed in fluffy, dainty dresses served the refreshments. "Throughout the whole a spirit of love and harmony pervaded."
GENERAL RELIEF SOCIETY PRESIDENCY AND FOUR PAST PRESIDENTS OF CACHE STAKE RELIEF SOCIETY TAKEN MAY 18, 1932
NOTES FROM THE FIELD
Yellowstone Stake (Marysville Ward). The president of Marysville Ward Relief Society writes: "We are progressing very satisfactorily in our Relief Society work. Just recently we held a very successful class teachers' convention, with the Farnum, Ashton and Marysville wards cooperating. We feel that it did much good in encouraging the teachers to put this work over. Most of the stake officers were in attendance, and as we live quite a way from stake headquarters, it brought the instructions home to us.
Radio Broadcasts
To the Relief Society will come the honor and pleasure of beginning the series of radio broadcasts of the auxiliary organizations of the Church. This series will begin on Sunday evening, October 16, at 8:45 M. S. T., and emanates from the studio of Radio Station KSL, at Salt Lake City. The Relief Society program will consist of addresses on the history and scope of the organization, and a very delightful feature of each evening will be the music furnished by "The Singing Mothers." This group consists of 250 Salt Lake mothers, who have good voices, and, true to the spirit of the Relief Society, are willing to use them. Busy mothers though they are, they have found time to spare from their many duties to participate in one of the most unique and progressive choral achievements of American women. They first began activity as small singing groups in local organizations of the Relief Society. When the real excellence of the work of these small groups was demonstrated, the thought was suggested of combining them into one large chorus, which was accordingly accomplished. Under the direction of their leader, Mrs. Charlotte O. Sackett, they have held regular rehearsals, and have made frequent public appearances. Their repertoire is wide, including fine Church hymns, classical and patriotic compositions. The chorus has its own director, organist and soloists, with sufficient talent to meet every need. Relief Society members will doubtless wish to invite their friends to tune in on these fine programs, which will be given on four consecutive Sunday evenings at 8:45 M. S. T., beginning October 16.
Prohibition
The May third issue of "Signs of the Times" is a very fine prohibition number. It is recognized by churchmen and leaders of dry forces everywhere as a most complete and effective piece of literature provided for the present campaign. It will have more than a million circulation. It answers every line of argument of the wets with reliable information. We urge our readers to get copies of this issue and circulate them as widely as possible. They may be secured from "Signs of the Times," Mountain View, California, or from the Utah Book Society, 826 East 21 South Street, Salt Lake City, Utah. Single copies are 5c each; lots of one hundred or more are $2.50; and one thousand or more are $17.50.
The following paragraphs are taken from "Prohibition and Lawlessness:"
"There is no allegation against Prohibition more frequently made by the Wets than that the Eighteenth Amendment and the Volstead law caused the crime wave in the United States.
"That America is crime ridden is all too obvious; but to say that all crime or any major part of it is due to Prohibition is a horse of a different color. While it is true that we have crime with Prohibition, it is equally true that we had crime before Prohibition. This indicates that there are factors other than Prohibition in the crime problem.
"But you may ask, 'Isn't it true that crime has increased since Prohibition?'
"Yes, that is a fact, but it is also true that lawlessness was increasing year by year before Prohibition. Indeed, Calvin Coolidge reported to an American Bar Association meeting shortly after Prohibition went into effect, that 'since the year 1890 there has been an ever-increasing tide of lawlessness in this country.' Thus the increase in crime began a long thirty years before Prohibition.
"'But,' you persist, 'no matter how or when the crime wave began, isn't the infraction of the liquor laws the chief item in our crime totals today?'
"No, not by any means! In a notable address on the question of lawlessness delivered in 1929, President Hoover declared:
"'I have purposely cited the extent of murder, burglary, robbery, forgery, and embezzlement, because only a small percentage of these can be attributed to the Eighteenth Amendment. In fact, of the total number of convictions for felony last year, less than 8 per cent came from that source. That is, therefore, but a sector of the invasion of lawlessness.'
"In the introduction to the volume, The Criminal and His Allies, by one of the outstanding judges of the nation, Judge Marcus Kavanaugh of Chicago, it is said:
"'As for Prohibition, the steady increase in major crimes, which have clogged the dockets of the courts, has kept a pace quite unrelated to the comparatively minor offenses against the Eighteenth Amendment.'
"In other words, if Prohibition were blotted out right now, the sum total of our lawlessness as it now exists would not be greatly reduced."
THE RELIEF SOCIETY OF THE CHURCH OF JESUS CHRIST OF LATTER-DAY SAINTS
Motto—Charity Never Faileth
THE GENERAL BOARD
MRS. LOUISE YATES ROBISON President
MRS. AMY BROWN LYMAN First Counselor
MRS. JULIA ALLEMAN CHILD Second Counselor
MRS. JULIA A. F. LUND General Secretary and Treasurer
Mrs. Lizzie Thomas Edward, Music Director Mrs. Emma A. Empey Mrs. Amy Whipple Evans Mrs. Ida P. Beal Miss Sarah M. McLelland Mrs. Ethel Reynolds Smith Mrs. Katie M. Barker Mrs. Annie Wells Cannon Mrs. Rosannah C. Irvine Mrs. Marcia K. Howells Mrs. Jennie B. Knight Mrs. Nettie D. Bradford Mrs. Hazel H. Greenwood Mrs. Lalene H. Hart Mrs. Elise B. Alder Mrs. Emeline Y. Nebeker Mrs. Lotta Paul Baxter Mrs. Inez K. Allen Mrs. Mary Connelly Kimball Mrs. Cora L. Bennion
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
Editor Mary Connelly KIMBALL
Manager Louise Y. ROBISON
Assistant Manager Amy Brown Lyman