They burrow without ceasing, certain species girdling trees for fourteen years before emerging as adult beetles. Fabre has written a fascinating account of the doings of these burrowers. Mash Wren (above) Rock Wren (below) Savers of Trees in Summer Perhaps all people know the little yellow bird of summer, the "wild canary." This is the yellow warbler, the only bird we have that is practically all yellow. What a delight it is to watch this lively and musical sprite as it constantly moves among the branches, singing "tsweet, tsweet, see," while it keeps up its  : WOODPECKERS: ROCKY MOUNTAIN HAIRY; LEWIS; incessant search for tiny caterpillars. If it did not, these would soon become large enough, and they are surely numerous enough, to destroy all our trees. Invaluable, therefore, is the work SAVE THE WILD BIRDS of the warblers and also that of their comrades the vireos. In the Rocky Mountain West, we have six species of vireo and fourteen kinds of warbler. Each warbler possesses some amount of yellow in its plumage, but only one, the Summer Warbler, is wholly yellow. The most effective method of saving warblers and vireos is to do away with house cats. The women of America might as well be told the truth—that they cannot have both songbirds and cats. They must choose between the delightful singers of the air that save the trees and vegetation and that lamentable mistake of civilization, the house cat. Crouching, climbing, hunting by night as well as by day, domestic cats are destroying American songbirds at the rate of 50 millions each year. Moreover, cats transmit tuberculosis, small-pox, scarlet fever,. Diphtheria. Hygienically it is dangerous to harbor or to caress these low, unintelligent, bird-killing, disease-carrying creatures. Birds of the Poets Birds unusually distinguished for their songs, their grace, their intelligence, or their beauty, we call the poets' birds, so frequently have they appeared in song and story. With Se us, these are first the thrushes, of which bluebird, robin, and hermit thrush are examples. The mockingbird group comes next. Of these we have here in the North the catbird and the sage thrasher, both very fine singers and often vocalizing by moonlight. Three of the wrens— canyon wren, rock wren, and Parkman's—take rank among the superior artists of song, as do also the greentailed towhee and the black-headed grosbeak. All the native sparrows sing fairly well; the song sparrow, lark sparrow, vesper sparrow, white crown, and house finch sing excellently and act daintily, only the imported house or English sparrow being a nuisance and menace to man. Sparrows and 'finches are all poetic favorites, frequently mentioned in literature. Clever and entertaining species, such as the long-tailed chat, the water ouzel, and the cactus wren, the horned lark, the oriole, among song birds; birds of mystery—the loons, grebes, herons, ibis, cranes, mergansers, cormorants, vulture; odd and bizarre-acting groups, some of them favorites for superstitious folk-lore and legendary tales, such as crows, jays, magpies, pelicans, owls, hawks, eagles, shrikes; birds of high coloring or of marvelous grace in flight, as the tanagers, vermillion fly-catcher, swallows, swans, plovers, stilt, avocet, gulls, terns, notable ducks and geese—these and others appealing to the aesthetic emotions deserve to be ranked with the birds of the poets. All such species it is important to save. We should halt the impending extermination or decimation of these unique creatures by gunners, flippers, house cats, house sparrows, and unschooled urchins. It is mainly scientific curiosity that leads to nest robbing  LOON TERNS and bird-killing. The actual values precious because they are mainly of species that appeal to aesthetic sentimental. Sentiment, emotion, emotions are none the less real and _ ideals, are the chief values in life. (To be continued.)