VOL. XIX OCTOBER, 1932 No. 10
EDITORIAL
Progress
We hear so much about the increase of crime that it is encouraging to learn from the report of Miss Additon, the Sixth Deputy Police Commissioner, that police department records of New York City show that in 1930 there were 7,114 arrests of juveniles, and in 1931, 6,322, a decrease of 11 per cent during the two years of the Crime Prevention Bureau's service.
The object of The Crime Prevention Bureau of New York, of which Miss Additon is head, "is to cut off crime and suppress vice at their sources through the prevention of juvenile delinquency. This is accomplished through specially trained officers, men and women, who study environmental factors in the various neighborhoods of the city, and become personally acquainted with the boys and girls in those neighborhoods and their special needs."
The Bureau welcomes and receives help from all the agencies and clubs in the city who deal with boys and girls under twenty-one years of age, and with other welfare and health societies which can help in family adjustments and provide medical care. The program of the Bureau provides a recreational program and medical care. Athletic activities under general supervision of the men in the Bureau are given to thousands of boys. Training in character and conduct is given as widely as possible. Confidence is developed in the course of this training, by having talks from boyish heroes, such as baseball players and fighters.
Miss Additon, as she studies cases of delinquency, finds poverty, ill health and broken homes are factors oft repeated. "The majority of criminals seem to have been sickly boys. According to psychiatrists, crime may often be a compensation giving the youthful criminal a sense of power to make up for his physical inferiority. Extreme poverty also may lead to a superiority substitute in the false sense of power that comes from use of a gun. No one factor can explain a tendency toward crime, but poverty and ill health evidently play a very large part in a city like New York. Every boy and girl coming before the
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
Bureau receives a physical examination, and serious physical defects are often found. The correction of these defects in many cases cures the criminal tendency."
All too slowly we are learning that society's obligation is to find out the cause of criminal tendencies and to remove the untoward conditions, so that every child shall be so surrounded and so conditioned that he can live a normal life.
Social Hygiene
We are pleased to note that the General Federation of Women's Clubs, at their biennial convention held in Seattle, Washington, June 9-18, passed the following resolution:
"Whereas, The General Federation of Women's Clubs recognizes the steadily increasing interest in social hygiene, particularly as it concerns family life and the protection and welfare of women and minors, and
"Whereas, We appreciate the importance of a more widespread knowledge of the principles of social hygiene in the development of a well-rounded program of public health,
"Therefore, Be It Resolved, That the General Federation of Women's Clubs urge the State Federations and local clubs to study the problems of social hygiene and, by giving it a definite place on their annual programs, aid in arousing public interest and local responsibility for the bettering of conditions relating to these aspects of the social welfare of the community."
We believe much social betterment will result from the interest of this powerful organization in social hygiene.