HELEN AND VIRGINIA.

[Continued.]

The evening passed—the elder rose—
"Sister Virginia, one last word:
I would a friend's desire express
	For your own future. May you find
The Zion that your heart preferred
	To the great Babylon behind.

"May the brave firmness you have shown
Still bear you on through weal or woe,
And should you ever need a friend
	Just send me word. Be prayerful still,
And seek above all things to know,
	And love, and do our Father's will."

Within her own blest room that night
Her heart its burden all outpoured:
The gratitude, the happiness—
	Escaped from out man's cruel snare,
Through power and mercy of the Lord—
	And still besought His holy care.

So like a heaven upon earth
The days went on, they scarce had thought.
To count the months, and daily grew.
	These ties of friendship dearer yet;
Though one e'er present sorrow brought
	Daily its shadow to be met.

For the one boy, Helen's own child,
When fever's scourge was spent and done,
Though rescued back to life and strength
	Walked in their midst with blighted mind;
Silent, unchild-like, grown as one
	Averse to join with human kind.

A father's love and care he met
With stolid, calm indifference;
But, as with nature's instinct, turned
	In quiet faithfulness to her
Whose heart waked to its keenest sense
	Strove still his feeble mind to stir.

Silent and harmless in their midst,
Unanswering love's caress or word,
His ev'ry need and wish supplied;
	Basking in sunshine, noting not
Flower or stream or flitting bird,
	'Twere hard to tell his hidden thought.

Yet, ever when the thunders rolled,
And lightnings flashed before his eyes,
They woke his spirit to reply,
	That keener pierced their troubled hearts;
He mocked the o'er cast, lurid skies
	With muttering wrath and angry darts.

Their only son, their only hope,
Vain seemed their patience and e'en prayer!
Yet resignation meekly bore
	The cross so strange that God had sent,
Waiting the time He should declare
	The purpose that His lesson meant.

Once, stirred by precious truths so sweet
To the disheartened, there arose
Within Virginia's heart, the wish
	To send the words of truth and peace,
Within a missive brief enclosed,
	Praying they might bear swift release

To anxious fears within the heart
That Lillian lightly, idly prized;
In vain—for he though noble, pure
	As man may be, their force withstood;
What she so plainly realized
	His reasons never understood.

"It gives me joy to know your life
Is blessed with comfort, happiness;
That you have reached that goal of faith
	You sought so earnestly and long.
And would take to your heart no less;
	I know you would not love what's wrong—

"And yet, I cannot see with you;
I know, you seek to bear me balm
And hope, and strength to light my soul,
	But still I cannot understand;
My soul is weary, yours is calm,
	Your bark will reach faith's better land.

"Take all of happiness that life
Can yield or bring; your day has dawned,
Bright be its zenith, its decline
	As gentle as your spirit is.

[Column 2]
Farewell! till in the blest Beyond
	We win the peace that here we miss."

Then her heart answered: "Yes, farewell—
Sweet memories so earthly dear.
Have I e'er faltered in the thought
	Which heaven to choose, the one beyond
Or this so pure, so sure, so near,
	Out-reaching love so true and fond?

"Farewell, till God in His own time
Shall speak to thee, then thou wilt know
A higher guide than reason's light;
	Then shall I greet thee, brother, friend,
With joy, for I have loved thee so—
	Where holy friendships never end."


[Column 1]
