PART SECOND.

	The scene changes. The coals are burning
just as bright, but the pretty home and com-
fortable family have faded from view, and I
find myself walking up Broadway in the city
of New York. Men of business are hurrying
to and fro as if their lives depended on their
movements. Groups of men are standing here
and there talking on the principal topic of the
day, politics. Some are calm and sanguine,
others excited and careworn. Here a ragged
urchin is begging for a penny to buy a morsel
of bread. There a sweet little girl with blue
eyes and flaxen hair—but oh, so tangled. As
I look at her poor, bare feet and tattered gar-
ments, she lifts her tiny hands, and, with a be-
seeching look, says, "Pretty lady, ma is so sick,
and I am so hungry" I place a dollar in the
poor child's hand and hurry on.
	I slacken my pace, for I am attracted by the
movements of a young girl a little in advance
of me. Her poor feet are peeping through her
torn shoes. She draws a thin shawl around
her as if she was cold. The pale face is
pinched with hunger and her eyes are sunken
and glassy. She is scarcely more than a child.
She staggers on and mutters, "Rum! rum! will
nobody give me rum to drown these racking
thoughts?" A fine, handsome man is coming
towards us, dressed in the height of fashion.
Although it is nearly dark, I recognize him as
one of the leaders of our nation. As he passes
with his head erect, the young girl's face turns
to an ashy hue, she gasps for breath, starts for-
ward, and, in a stifled shriek, cries, "O God, my
destroyer!" and falls lifeless to the earth. I
pass on and meet a degraded wretch with
bloated face and bleared eyes; a little fellow is
running after him, he takes his father's hand.
The child cries in a poor, piping voice, "Father,
come home; do not spend any more money;
Tommy is sick, we have no bread, no fire, and
we are so cold and hungry."
	Gaily caparisoned carriages are passing to
and fro filled with ladies and gentlemen
dressed in costly attire, going to some fashion-
able place of amusement. The flaunting cour-
tesan and proud libertine pass side by side.
Here are houses of business, bowling alleys,
saloons, academies of music, lyceums, houses
of ill fame, churches, theatres, palatial resi-
dences, cottages and hovels. I turn my eyes
to the blue vault of heaven, bedecked with
myriads of stars, and from them to the bril-
liantly lighted streets, refulgent with electric
lights. In fancy I see the grand ocean with
its rolling billows; I see noble ships loaded with
costly merchandise. I see magnificent steam-
ers, sea houses of luxury for travelers; I listen
to the shrill whistle and loud thump of the
iron horse as he rushes along over hill and val-
ley, by fields of golden grain and waving corn,
bearing his precious freight of human souls,
some bent on business,some on pleasure, others on
errands of mercy or, may be, of revenge. And
I think what a beautiful world this would be

[Column 2]
if it were not for "man's inhumanity to man."
I wonder that man, the noblest of God's works,
should make a great part of it fit only for a
resort for demons.
	As I thus muse on the beauties of creation
and the frailties of man, I find myself before
a large mansion. I walk up the broad steps
and in at the door. Noiselessly I pass through
the hall and up a grand old oaken staircase.
Costly images of marble and bronze, from their
retired niches, gaze mournfully upon me, caus-
ing a thrill of gloomy emotions. I pass from
the long winding staircase to a picture gallery,
where the walls are lined with portraits of
stately ladies and gentlemen, who seem to
frown down as if they were insulted at the au-
dacious stranger who dared to intrude on their
gloomy solitude. With an inquiring gaze, I
pass from one to the other until the portrait of
a lovely girl particularly attracts my atten-
tion. She is a blonde with light auburn hair
and deep blue eyes. Her skin is as fair as ala-
baster; her cheeks like the pale, beauteous rose;
her cherry lips, which are slightly apart, re-
veal her pearly teeth. What innocence and
childlike beauty envelop that love form. I
query in my mind if the original of this bright
vision is the one treasure of the house—a love-
ly daughter.
	As I stand entranced with the life-like beau-
ty of the portrait, a sigh falls on my ear so full
of woe that I start with horror, thinking it
must be some benighted spirit winding its way
to the lonely grave. Turning, I see what
seems to be a private door leading to another
apartment. I gently push it open and walk
in. I find myself in a spacious room, furnished
with all the modern luxury of refined life. As
I noiselessly tread the rich carpet it is like
gliding through beds of roses. A magnificent
chandelier of a hundred jets hangs from a fres-
coe celing. There is a grand piano, closed,
with the music stiffly placed on one corner, as
if the pretty performer was no more. A harp
stands in one corner of the room. The glow-
ing coals in the polished grate look inviting to
a weary traveler, but they bring no warmth to
my chilling limbs. Fantastic shapes appear to
be dancing here and there, and I people the
room with shadows of my own making from
costly mirrors, and I fancy I am walking
through some lonely castle where the spirits of
the long ago departed are met to deplore their
long banishment from the scenes of their child-
hood days. Again I hear that sigh, like the
slow breaking of a desolate heart. I turn my
eyes to whence the sound comes. At a little
distance stands a tall, beautiful woman of thir-
ty-five, the counterpart, only matured, of the
lovely portrait in the picture gallery. The
lady is dressed in black velvet; a costly fichu
of white lace, fastened with a diamond brooch,
is her only ornament. The unutterable woe of
that peerless face causes a thrill of the deepest
pity to pass through my sensitive soul. She
clasps her hands; she raises her tearful eyes to
heaven and softly breathes the prayer, "O God,
have pity on my child!" Then sinks like a
wilted flower to her chair. The low sobs and
visible anguish of that tortured breast arouse
my keenest contempt for the being who caused
so much suffering.


﻿"Beyond the Mississippi" will appear in the
September number.
	The State officers of Y. L. M. I. A. are
hereby officially notified to prepare semi-annual
stake reports, carefully, upon printed blanks,
and forward them as early as the 15th of Sep.,
that a complete and satisfactory report may be
made to the General Conference in October.
Direct the reports to Mrs. E. S. Taylor, P. O.
Box 629, Salt Lake City, Utah.
					LOUIE M. WELLS,
				Secretary Y. L. M. I. A.


