EDITOR WOMAN'S EXPONENT:
	Though living in this far off land, separated
from the body of the Church comprising the
Latter-day Saints, I feel like lifting my voice
and bearing my testimony to what I believe to
be the principles of eternal truth. I am as it
were, one lone sheep off to its self, being the
only one in this county who has yet stepped
forward and taken on the whole armor of the
Gospel. And having through the kindness of
the Elders, been presented with some copies of
your valuable paper, which so nobly advo-
cates the cause of our religion, and the rights
of the down-trodden and oppressed of all na-
tions.
	I thought through its medium to let my sis-
ters know that my thoughts and heart are with
them, in the glorious work in which they are
engaged. And having cast off the sectarian
notions which I have been taught from my in-
fancy, and identified myself with that people
who are so constantly maligned and misrepre-
sented by the pulpit and press.
	I feel that their weal is my weal, and their
woe is my woe, and look forward anxiously for
the time when the so called Mormon question
which is puzzeling the wise Solons of our na-
tion at present, shall be understood as it
really exists. And having full and implicit
confidence in the truth of the old adage which
says, "Truth is mighty and will prevail," I
know that time will come, for the work is a
progressive one, from the fact that its leader is
Omnipotent; and all the combined forces of
darkness may array themselves against it, but
their efforts to stay its progress will be unavail-
ing.
	I often sit and meditate upon the blessings
that can be enjoyed by the Latter-day Saints,
if they only live for them. Gathered out and
separated from those who know not the ways of
the Lord, they are permitted to assemble them-
selves together unmolested by their enemies.
	And that spirit of kindness, which I imag-
ine is so characteristic of a people who have
learned by bitter experience that not every
one who says, "Lord Lord," are sincere in
their hearts, can be cultivated and bring them
nearer to that point of perfection that we are
striving to gain.
	Here everything is different, the wrangling

[Column 2]
sects which compose modern Christanity are
ever ready to oppose everything that does not
conform to their standard.
	And while they have a form of Godliness
they deny the power thereof, just as the Scrip-
tures have foretold, which causes division in
their midst, until they are like a ship without
a rudder drifted about at the mercy of the
wind and waves. And instead of making the
Kingdom of God their chief aim, it is a second-
ary consideration with them who seek only for
the praise of their fellow man, forgetting that
the broad road is the one leading to destruc-
tion, and many there be who go in thereat.
	For my part I prefer the narrow way which
leads to the tree of life, even though its path-
way be thorny at the start, yet the satisfaction
we will have in partaking of its fruits will
more than compensate for the trials we have to
undergo in reaching it.
	By taking a retrospective view of the past
we can see how the truth has always been
received by the majority of the human family.
We need only to look at the days of Noah,
Lot, Daniel, Jeremiah, our Savior and His
Apostles, to convince ourselves that the emis-
aries of Satan have always opposed it, and
if the words of the Apostle Paul be true we
may expect the future to bring the same re-
sults; for he made the emphatic declaration
that all that will live Godly in Christ Jesus
shall suffer persecution.
	Then let us be thankful that we are permit-
ted to live in this day and age of the world,
when the Gospel is restored to the earth once
more, and that we have been the recipients
of it.
	Then, dear sisters, let us live our religion, re-
gardless of the threats and sheers we have to
meet. I feel that I would love to take the
sisters of Utah by the hand and express to
them the feelings my pen is incapable of do-
ing justice to, and receive from them words
of comfort that would cheer me in my lonely
position.
	Hoping and praying that truth may tri-
umph in its onward march and overcome error
and shine forth as brightly as the stars in the
firmament, I will close by asking an interest in
the prayers of my sisters, and all lovers of
righteousness, I subscribe myself,
	Your sister in the covenant of peace,
