NOTES AND NEWS.

	Queen Victoria sent President Arthur a dis-
patch of congratulation on the discovery of
the Greeley party.

	The English Woman's Review comes laden
with intelligence of the active work of the
noble ladies engaged in the struggle for equal
suffrage and a better condition for women
generally.

	"The women of Siam have petitioned the
king to take from their husbands the right to
pledge them in the payment of gambling debts"
This is a legal sacrifice to which women are
liable in that country by getting married.

	The presses of the Lawrence American are
being run by electricity. The power is con-
veyed to the office over a wire from a dynamo
more than a quarter of a mile away, and the
experiment is said to work perfectly. A daily
paper printed by electricity is something of a
wonder even in this age of the world.

	It would seem to lookers on that the French
are getting their hands full with China and
Madagascar and foreign places Keeping
up armaments all around the world may make
France formidable as a foe to foreign nations,
but how will it affect the question of peace at
home. Is it not risking too much strength to
conquer abroad and lessening power at home?

	Mrs. Julia Ward Howe of Boston, delivered
a lecture before the Concord School of Phil-
osophy Saturday, July 26th, subject, "Emer-
son's Relation to Society." It is said to have
been the principal feature of the occasion, and
that "the audience was a brilliant one," as it
was no doubt a critical one. This eminent,
scholarly lady has won much distinction in
literary and in social circles.

	The newspapers give a good account of the
voting by women at the elections in Washing-
ton Territory. There has been considerable
laudable enthusiasm in the matter, which has
made it all the more interesting. For our own
part we never have had any doubts but that
women would conduct themselves with all due
propriety on these public occasions, and not
lose a particle of their womanliness, a wonder-
ful characteristic word in this day of woman's
advancement.


