EDITORIAL NOTES.

	SISTER ZINA D. H. Young, who has been in
Logan for a short time past officiating in the Tem
ple, came down to the city on Saturday, Aug.
9. She has during her stay in Cache Valley,
in addition to her labors in the Temple, visited
several of the settlements and attended meet-
ings of the Relief Society and Primary Asso-
ciations. At Millville there was a very interest-
ing annual meeting of the Relief Society, and the
singing was done by twelve of the larger girls
of the Primary, who rendered some choice se-
lections in their sweet fresh voices, and which
was a charming feature of the meeting. At
Lewiston the Relief Society had never been vis-
ited by the sisters from Salt Lake and they were
indeed greatly pleased and rejoiced to have Sis-
ter Zina; Sister Presendia Kimball also visited
most of the settlements with Sister Zina and
also went to Meadowville to visit relatives.

	SISTER ELIZA R. SNOW SMITH went to Mor-
gan on Friday, the first of August, to attend the
Sisters' Conference of that Stake. She returned
on Monday evening, August 4. During the con-
ference Sister Eliza re-organized the Y. L. M. I.
A. of Morgan Stake, which became necessary on
account of the resignation of Sister Mary Jane
Toomar, who expects shortly to move away.
Sister Susannah Heiner was elected President;
and Sisters Mary Welch and Turner her Coun-
selors.

	ON the 16th of July we had the pleasure, in
company with Sister Bathsheba W. Smith, of
attending the Relief Society Conference of Da-
vis Stake, held at Kaysville, Sister Nancy A.
Clark presiding. Bishop Barton of that place
attended both morning and afternoon session.
The Relief Society of that Stake is in a very
prosperous condition; the sisters who take part
in it are faithful, earnest and energetic. After
the Conference adjourned the two Primary As-
sociations met in joint session, Sister Jane
Blood presiding. There were a great number of
children, and they observed the most excellent
order. The singing was particularly sweet and
the exercises were very well rendered. Sister
Aurelia S. Rogers who presides over the P. A.
of that Stake takes the deepest interest in the
advancement of the little people in the Primary
and is untiring in her labors through the coun-
ty.

	WE devote most of the editorial columns of
this issue to the teachings of Joseph the Prophet
given to the Relief Society in Nauvoo. Much
of this matter has been published in the Ex-
ponent some years since, and also in the Con-
tributor, August, 1882, but as there is still need
of teaching to many not acquainted with these
things, and all may not have read it or even
seen it, it seems highly proper to republish, es-
pecially for the benefit of the sisters actively
engaged in the labors pertaining to the Relief
Society, and who have not the opportunity of
hearing so much valuable instruction as those
residing in this Stake of Zion. We trust the
sisters will not only read these articles (as it
will be continued in the next number), but will
preserve the papers, that these important things
may be kept on record.

[Column 2]
	THE Ladies' fair of Summit County has been
opened at Coalville. It is expected that suffi-
cient money will be raised by the energy and
exertion of the ladies at this Fair to buy the
glass for the Stake Tabernacle.

	OUR readers will doubtless be pleased with the
very ably written address of Mrs. Lu Dalton,
delivered on the 24th of July in Beaver.
	So much space is occupied by the publication
of this address that we are unable to commence
the Biography of Sister Patty Sessions in this
number, but intend doing so in September 1st.
However, we think the article a very excellent
one and the theme, one on which too much can-
not be said.
	Articles on hand for publication: Conference
of Y. L. and Primary Associations of Millard
Stake, A Birthday Party of Patriarch B. F.
Johnson, Relief Society Conference of Sanpete
Stake, "Music" and "Musings" from Orange-
ville, To the Girls, "Correspondence" from Pine
Valley, Woodruff and Hyrum, an essay signed
A. F., and a very ably written letter from Laie.
These articles are considered suitable and will
be published as soon as practicable.


