PROVO, UTAH STAKE.

	Minutes of the Relief Society of Utah Co.,
held March 30th, 1884. Present on the stand
Counselors Mary John and Rhoda Lyman.
Visitors from the city, Sisters Snow and Horne.
Conference opened with the usual exercises of
singing and prayer. The minutes of last con-
ference read and approved. As there were no
written reports the Presidents gave short ver-
bal reports. The societies, as a general thing,
were in a flourishing condition, and wide
awake to their duties and responsibilities.
	Sister John, after speaking a short time, in-
troduced to the conference our new Counselor to
Sister Smoot—she having never met with us
before on account of ill health.
	Sister Rhoda Lyman then expressed her
pleasure at meeting with the sisters, and her
desire to help with every good work; also bore
her testimony to the truth of this Latter-day
work, and desired the faith and prayers of
all.
	Sister Horne was pleased to listen to Sister
Lyman, who was a capable woman, and who
would yet become strong and do a mighty work.
We should seek the Spirit of God, for without
it we cannot do the work that is before us.
There is enough for all to do. Although we
may not all occupy prominent positions, yet if
we are humble and enjoy the spirit of the Gos-
pel we will find favor with the Almighty; she
made other good remarks.
	Sister Snow Smith said I want to mention
one thing that has pleased me this morning.
No one has wasted time in apologizing. Blessed
Sister Lyman in her first attempt at speaking;
said the Lord would bless and strengthen her
and make her to rejoice and shout Hosanna.
The Spirit of God is in our midst—we are all
missionaries sent from the eternal worlds. If
the vail could be withdrawn and we could see
the blessings pronounced upon us before we
came here we would rejoice. We should culti-
vate the Comforter in our hearts and obey the
counsels of those in authority. We did not
come here just for our own comfort, but to do
good to others, speak a comforting word to the
sorrowing, raise up the bowed down. A fitting
word of reproof often accomplishes great good.
Gave much more good advice and counsel.
	Sister Lucy W. Kimball said, I am pleased
to meet with you again after being absent from
you for some time. I have tried to faithfully
represent you wherever I have been. I never
spoke in public while away, but the chimney
corner, by the fireside, was my place for ex-


pounding the truths of Mormonism. I real-
ized more than ever my dependence upon God.
You cannot realize, without being among them,
the feelings of the world towards us as a peo-
ple. They appeared surprised to see a woman
from Utah with a pleasant countenance. They
seem to have the impression that we are sad
and oppressed. I advised them to come and
see the cheerful, noble spirits we have here. I
took a great many of our books and cards with
me, and offered them to any that would like to
read them. Some took them to read, but said
they did not expect to be converted.  I enjoyed
myself very much with the aged, and many
shed tears at parting with me.
	Conference adjourned till 2 p.m.  Prayer by
Mother Duke.
	Afternoon session commenced as usual with
singing and prayer.  A few of the presidents
gave reports of their societies, after which Sis-
ter E. R. S. Smith spoke for a short time.  Said,
I often think we underate ourselves considering
the great work we are called upon to perform,
to assist in the salvation of the living and the
dead; to lift the curse that was placed upon
woman and bring her back to her original pos-
ition, and to assist in redeeming the earth and
lift it to its former place near to the home of
our Father. Never has woman occupied so
important a position—to purify ourselves to re-
turn back into the presence of our Father and
become joint heirs with Jesus Christ. Can we
comprehend it? How many of us to-day have
faith enough to receive our dead to life again,
or to go into a fiery furnace? Let us keep our
standing and duties before us and we will be
prepared for anything.  Let our enemies do
their worst, they cannot do more than God will
let them. There will  be a time when the sin-
ner in Zion will tremble. The priesthood has
been greatly benefited by these societies.  They
help the poor in spirit as well as in means;
by and by there will be no poor among us.
Now we have another Temple open and the
spirits in prison are rejoicing. Let us do
everything with an eye single to the glory of
God.
	Sister Horne made further remarks on
housekeeping and good cooking. Said we want
to learn all things. Teach your children
order; do not allow them to run at large;
teach them good manners, and to be truthful
and respectful, and cultivate their hearts at
home. The younger you commence the bet-
ter. What nobler work for mothers? We
do not realize this as we should. Do teach
them the ways of the Lord. Lay the founda-
tion that they may grow up strong minded and
fearless in everything that is right; set good
examples before them. A woman is noble who
makes home dear to her children—be awake
to your duties. Teach your children to vote
when they are old enough, and to esteem the
privilege. Let us not say all is well in Zion.
It is time that we arouse ourselves. Let us
never betray our trusts, but be true, that we
may inherit eternal life.
	Conference adjourned for three months.
Benediction by L. W. Kimball.
				C. Daniels, Secretary.
				____

