A NEW CONVERT.
				______

Editor Exponent:
	The thought came to me to write you a few
lines about the way in which the truth came
to me and how I received it.  I had never
seen a Mormon in my life that I knew to be
one.  My sister had, twenty-seven years ago,
in Australia, received the truth with her hus-
band and seven children, six sons and one
daughter.  They had gone to Utah and for
years we heard but little of them.  My sister
wrote and told me she had embraced the Mor-
mon faith, saying it was the true Gospel.  It
seemed all so strange to me.  I took the trouble
to inquire into it, feeling she must be de-
ceived.  For years I lost sight of her and her
family.
	As long as I can remember I had a desire
to know, serve and obey the living and true
God; with all my heart I longed to find Him.
I tried the Wesleyan Church, I also sought the
Lord in private prayer, and had many answers
to my prayers.  The Lord often seemed very
near to me.  I tried to walk before him blame-
less; I watched professing Christians; sought
the advise of ministers; all told me to believe
on the Lord Jesus Christ and I should be saved.
I did believe; I thought I was saved.  Who
was I to pray to, I asked, the Father, the Son,
or the Holy Spirit?  Oh!  to either, it was all
the same, I was told.
	After a while I got somewhat disgusted with
it all and left the Wesleyan church, and for
years wandered without  any guidance in the
way to heaven.  I had visions and dreams, en-
joyed much of the inflluence of the unseen
world.  No one seemed to understand me.  One
lady said I was very mythical, but in secret I
cried, “Lead me to the true and living God.”
Years passed in this way.  I had given myself
so entirely to the true and living God, and
trusted Him to make all things right, and did
not doubt but He would in His own due time.
Suddenly I heard that one of my sister’s sons
was in England on a mission.  What did it
mean?  I asked myself.  Do the Mormons send
out their messengers to England to preach?
What does it all mean?  For months I heard
of him and his work.  Some warned me of
him, others simply told me about his work; one
said, “He is very busy among us.”
	All summer passed in this way.  One, day
a letter came from my brother saying my
nephew, who had warned me of my Mormon
nephew, was won over and had been baptised
into the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day
Saints.  This I could not understand, as he be-
longed to the Plymouth Brethren.  I really
knew not what to think.  Not having replied
to his letter of warning I took the opportunity
to write and ask him.  His answer was, yes,
dear aunt, it is true that I am baptized into the
Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints.
He went on to say, believe nothing of these
people but what they say themselves.  This
was worse and worse.  Must they sound their
own trumpet?  I thought my nephew must be
beside himself to talk in this way.
	One day I was told that Mr. Nye wanted to
see me.  (The same Mr. Nye was my Mormon
nephew, of whom I had heard so much, at the
present time president of the London Confer-
ence.)  I was pleased to see him, and to hear
of my dear sister and her family after all
these years.  The Mormon doctrine was an-
other thing.  It seemed, however, I could not
have one without the other.  He had come,
not so much to see his Aunt Fanny, as to set
the truth before her.  I could see he had come
for this purpose.  Not to listen would be to
condemn, not only him, but the Church he
came to represent, unheard, and this, I knew,
would not be wise or kind. All I wanted on
earth was to do the will, of the Almighty.  I
lifted my heart to Him to be kept, and sat
down to listen to my Mormon nephew.
	It was a wonderful story.  I was taken by
surprise, as he, with the Bible in his hand,
showed so plain that all the Christian churches
were in confusion.  I had often wondered
if Christ would find His bride in the churches
on the earth, as they said He would when He
came again.  The Holy Spirit was with me as
the Mormon Elder told it all out, putting it
the other way about, faith in God, repentance,
baptism for the remission of sins, laying on of
hands for the gift of the Holy Ghost.  It all
flashed upon me.  It is Scripture, I said to my-
self, and saw I should have to give up; I knew
from that hour that I must become a Latter-
day Saint, a hated Mormon; because the Lord
must have His way; I had settled that long
ago, that what the Lord made plain to me in
that I would obey Him, Little did I think
He was leading me through this gate of bap-
tism into the Mormon Church, but so it was.
I praise His Holy name.  One difficulty after
another was cleared away by the Lord’s mes-
senger, that in my innermost soul I gave way.
Not so outwardly; I must search and prove
the doctrine before acknowledging it was from
God. I must confess I shrank from the change
that it was plain to me must take place; so I
set myself prayerfully to investigate to see if
it must, indeed seeing all the while by the
light of the Holy Spirit, given in answer to
prayer, it must.  A correspondence between us
lasted some weeks, then I could hold out no
longer, and really did not wish to hold out
longer.  Question after question had been put
and answered to my satisfaction.  My patient
instructor, the Mormon Elder, had met the
longing of the depths of my inmost soul,
which had been pent up for years.  I wrote
freely, not dreaming any one but my nephew
saw what I wrote; it was best so, at least I think
so, had I thought otherwise the full pouring
out of my inmost thoughts would have
been withheld, which would not have brought
so rich a blessing.  So, dear madam, it came to
pass that I was baptized in the Serpentine,
London, on the 26th day of January, 1883,
and was confirmed the day following by the
laying on of hands.  The warm feeling of four
hands on my head came in itself as a comforter
to me.  The sisters gathered round me after- 
wards, said what a rich blessing mine was; I
was highly favored, they said; I could only re-
member the words, “May you be filled with
the Holy Spirit from the crown of your head
to the soles of your feet.” It was enough; it 
was the witness to me that all was right, being
the one thing I desired above all others, to be
filled with the Spirit of the living God.
	What a change came over me from that
hour.  I felt let into a large room.  I had not
climbed over the wall, but had gone in by the
door into the sheep-fold, where I might find
pasture; and in humbling myself before the
Lord and obeying His laws through the
Church, I find life abounding, knowledge in-
creasing on every side.
 At first the Priesthood was a little trouble
to me.  I failed to see its use.  I had always
been a little prejudiced against young ministers
from college.  What could they know? They


failed to get my confidence. The same thing
crept up about the young Elders of the Church,
but the Holy Spirit is always with me to teach
me. I spoke, also, to Elder Nye, and he put
me right. Going on obeying in all things I
find myself rejoicing in the Church of Jesus
Christ of Latter-day Saints.
	Do I regret? No, I do not. I rejoice daily
as the Holy Spirit opens to my understanding
the wonders of eternity.
	I am superintendent of a small Female Home.
One of my assistants, who embraced the truth
with me, is now on her way to the land of Zion,
having gone with the last company of Saints.
My present assistants are one with me in the
true Gospel.		*		*		*		*
	We all hope to gather home, as we have
learned to call it, as soon as the way opens.
Others of my friends having had the truth put
before them have obeyed the laws of God, and
are looking forward to going to the Rocky
Mountain regions.
	There is no branch of the Church here, we
therefore have no meetings where we can be
taught the ways or doings of the saints. The
Elders call sometimes, and we are very glad to
see them. They stay for a night; they get re-
freshed and we get blest.
	Pardon me for taking up so much of your
valuable time.
		Your sister in the Gospel,
								F. B.


