ORANGEVILLE, EMERY CO.

	Minutes of the Third Semi-Annual Confer-
ence of the Relief Society of Emery Stake,
held at Orangeville, Aug. 1st, 1884, President
Anna U. Larson presiding. Usual opening
exercises, minutes of last meeting read and ap-
proved, also statistical and financial reports for
the last half year. All the wards represented
seem to be doing well.
	Prest. Anna M. Larson spoke very encour-
agingly; pointed out the duties of the presi-
dents and teachers, also the duty of every
mother in living her religion, gathering her
little ones around, and attending to prayer in
the absence of the husband. Urged all to live
very near to their Heavenly Father; spoke of
the calamities that were coming upon the na-
tions; hoped that we would live in that way
that we may escape the judgments of God.
Advised us to love one another and cease evil
speaking.
	Sisters Joanna Childs, Ann Pulsipher and
M. Logan, also Bro. Logan and Bishop J.
Robertsen addressed the conference upon
home industry, Primary Associations, etc., all
giving good advice and expressing a desire to
do their duties in every respect.

[Column 3]
	Adjourned until 2 p.m. Singing. Benedic-
tion by Bro. Guiman.
	Afternoon session opened with singing
Prayer by Bro. Andrew Anderson. Singing.
Sister S. A. Fullmer was the first speaker—
pointed out the necessity of every legal voter
being on hand to vote on eleetion day, though
the right of franchise had been wrested from
those who had embraced celestial marriage,
everyone who still has the privilege should not
shirk this duty, for it is our duty as much as
anything else to maintain every right that we
enjoy, for if we are negligent even this right
may be taken from us.
	A number of the brethern and sisters ad-
vanced principles that all will do well to re-
member and practice through our lives.
	A letter from Sister E. B. Wells, a portion
of which was read, was appreciated very much
indeed, for though we are deprived of the
privilege of having those sisters meet with us
at present, we are happy to hear from them.
The Spirit of the Lord was with us and all
seemed to enjoy themselves.
	Conference adjourned till the 6th of Feb.
1884, to meet at Ferron. Singing. Benedic-
tion by Bro. W. Avery.
			ANNA U. LARSEN, President,
			ANNIE E. SEELY, Secretary.

