HIS TEACHINGS TO THE RELIEF SOCIETY.

	"April 28, 1842. At two o'clock, p.m., I met
the members ot the "Female Relief Society,"
and after presiding at the admission of many
new members, gave a lecture on the Priesthood,
showing how the sisters would come in posses-
sion of the privileges, blessings and gifts of the
Priesthood, and that the signs should follow
them, such as healing the sick, casting out dev-
ils, etc., and that they might attain unto these
blessings by a virtuous life and conversation, and
diligence in keeping all the commandments; a
synopsis of which was reported by Miss E. R.
Snow:
	"President Joseph Smith arose and drew the
attention of the meeting to the 12th chapter, I
Corinthians—'Now concerning spiritual gifts, I
would not have you ignorant.' Said that the
passage in the third verse, which reads, 'No man
can say that Jesus is the Lord, but by the Holy
Ghost,' should be translated, 'No man can know
that Jesus is the Lord, but by the Holy
Ghost.' He continued to read the chapter, and
give instructions respecting the different offices,
and the necessity of every individual acting in
the sphere allotted him or her, and filling the
several offices to which they were appointed.
	"Spoke of the disposition of many men to con-
sider the lower offices in the Church dishonora-
ble, and to look with jealous eyes upon the
standing of others who are called to preside over
them. That it was the folly and nonsense of
the human heart for a person to be aspiring to
other stations than those to which they are ap-
pointed of God for them to occupy; that it was
better for individuals to magnify their respective
callings, and wait patiently till God shall say
to them, 'Come up higher.'
	"He said the reason of these remarks being
made was, that some little foolish things were
circulating in the Society, against some of the sis-
ters not doing right in laying hands on the sick.
Said that if the people had common sympathies
they would rejoice that the sick could be healed;
that the time had not been before that these
things could be in their proper order; that the
Church is not fully organized, in its proper or-
der, and cannot be, until the Temple is complet-
ed, where places will be provided for the admin-
istration of the ordinances of the Priesthood.
	"President Smith continued the subject, by
quoting the commission given to the ancient


[Column 1]
Apostles in Mark, xvi, 15, 16, 17, 18: "Go ye into
all the world, and preach the Gospel to every
creature. He that believeth and is baptized,
shall be saved; but he that believeth not shall
be damned. And these signs shall follow them
that believe: in my name shall they cast out
devils; they shall speak with new tongues; they
shall take up serpents; and if they drink any
deadly thing, it shall not hurt them; they shall
lay hands on the sick, and they shall recover.'
	"No matter who believeth, these signs, such
as healing the sick, casting out devils, etc.,
should follow all that believe, whether male or
female. He asked the Society if they could not
see, by this sweeping promise, that wherein
they are ordained, it is the privilege of those
set apart to administer in that authority, which
is conferred on them; and if the sisters should
have faith to heal the sick, let all hold their
tongues, and let everything roll on.
	"He said, if God has appointed him, and chos-
en him as an instrument to lead the Church,
why not let him lead it through? Why stand in
the way when he is appointed to do a thing?
Who knows the mind of God? Does He not
reveal things differently from what we expect?
He remarked that he was continually rising, al-
though he had everything bearing him down,
standing in his way, and opposing; notwith-
standing all this opposition, be always came out
right in the end.
	"Respecting females administering for the
healing of the sick, he further remarked, there
could be no devil in it, if God gave His sanction
by healing; that there could be no more sin in
any female laying hands on and praying for the
sick, than in wetting the face with water; it is
no sin for anybody to administer that has faith,
or if the sick have faith to be healed by their
administration.
	"He reproved those that were disposed to find
fault with the management of the concerns of
the Church, saying God had called him to lead
the Church, and he would lead it right, those
that undertake to interfere will be ashamed
when their own folly is made manifest; that he
calculates to organize the Church in its proper
order as soon as the Temple is completed.
	"President Smith continued by speaking of
the difficulties he had to surmount since the
commencement of the work, in consequence of
aspiring men. 'Great big Elders,' as he called
them, who had caused him much trouble; to
whom he had taught the things of the kingdom
in private councils, they would then go forth in-
to the world and proclaim the things he had
taught them, as their own revelations; said the
same aspiring disposition will be in this Society,
and must be guarded against; that every person
should stand, and act in the place appointed,
and thus sanctify the Society and get it pure.
He said he had been trampled under foot by as-
piring Elders, for all were affected by that spir-
it; for instance, John E. Page and others had
been aspiring; they could not be exalted, but
must run away, as though the the care and au-
thority of the Church were vested with them.
He said he had a subtle devil to deal with, and
could only curb him by being humble.
	'As he had this opportunity, he was going to
instruct the ladies of this Society, and point out
the way for them to conduct themselves, that
they might set according to the will of God;
that he did not know that he should have many
opportunities of teaching them, as they were
going to be left to themselves; they would not
long have him to instruct them; that the Church
would not have his instructions long, and the
world would not be troubled with him a great
while, and would not have his teachings.
	"He spoke of delivering the keys of the Priest-
hood to the Church, and said that the faithful

[Column 2]
members of the Relief Society should receive
them in connection with their husbands, that
the Saints whose integrity has been tried and
proved faithful, might know how to ask the
Lord and receive an answer; for according to his
prayers, God had appointed him elsewhere. He
exhorted the sisters always to concentrate their
faith and prayers for, and place confidence in
their husbands, whom God has appointed for
them to honor, and in those faithful men
whom God has placed at the head of the Church
to lead His people; that we should arm and sus-
tain them with our prayers; for the keys of the
kingdom are about to be given to them, that
they may be able to detect everything false: as
well as to all the Elders who shall prove their
integrity in due season.
	"He said if one member becomes corrupt, and
you know it, you must immediately put it
away, or it will either injure or destroy the
whole body. The sympathies of the heads of
the Church have induced them to bear a long
time with those who are corrupt, until they are
obliged to cut them off, lest all become con-
taminated; you must put down iniquity, and by
your good examples, stimulate the Elders to
good works; if you do right, there is not danger
of your going too fast. He said he did not care
how fast we run in the path of virtue; resist
evil, and there is no danger; God, men and an-
gels will not condemn those that resist every-
thing that is evil, and devils cannot; as well
might the devil seek to dethrone Jehovah, as
overthrow an innocent soul that resists every-
thing which is evil."


