JULY 24TH, 1884, BY L. L. DALTON.

	The earth is the Lord's and the fullness
thereof; the world and they that dwell therein,
and we are His people, a remnant of His own
chosen Israel, heirs of the covenants and prom-
ises made with Abraham, our father, and the
friend of God.
	The ways of God are not as the ways of
man, nor His purposes to be fathomed by the
small understanding of man. He created this
earth and placed His children upon it for a
purpose—a wise and glorious purpose—to test
them, to prove which of them would seek after
truth and righteousness for truth and right-
eousness' own sake; for of such is the Kingdom
of Heaven.
	At three grand epochs in the history of this
Church, God has vouchsafed to His mortal
children an explanation of His own perfect
plan for their redemption from all evil, and
their restoration to far more than their original
happiness, power and glory.
	The first revelation of the divine plan of re-
demption was at the beginning of time, in the
days of Adam; the second at the meridian of

[Column 2]
time, in the days of Jesus; the third at the
consummation of time, in the days of Joseph.
	In every dispensation Satan has bestirred
himself to fight against God and try to bring
His purposes to naught, but God has ever
made use of him as an instrument to further
His plans and perfect His praise; suffering him
only to go as far as He would and checking
him at will.
	It is the last dispensation which we have
under consideration, and how fully is it proven
that the ways of God are not as the ways of
man, when He chose Joseph Smith, an obscure
and unlearned boy, before all the great and
wise ones of the earth to open the last and
greatest ministry of the Gospel unto the child-
ren of the earth. Is it any wonder that the
intelligent world found it hard to believe? But
they should have been prepared for it, because
the holy Scriptures have always declared that
the weak things of the earth should be chosen
to confound the wise.
	When this youth had the temerity to affirm
that he had been appointed to translate for the
benefit of all future generations of mankind,
precious records of ancient peoples—he who
understood no language, scarcely even his own
—is it any wonder that reasonable people
found it beyond belief?
	And when the book made its appearance
abounding in excellence, filled with consistent
—albeit most marvelous—histories of periods
and peoples, high and holy teachings, quota-
tions from the lucid explanations of the Jewish
Scriptures, and all couched in most magnificent
language, it was overpowering.
	It was manifestly impossible that such a boy
could be himself the author and originator of
such a book, and had the finest schools on earth
been at the boy's command, two years, the
time occupied in the translation of the book,
was far too brief for the manufacture of so vol-
uminous a work, in which no flaw could be
found; which chimed in strict unison with the
ancient Bible in every line and word. It
seemed that the God-given reasoning powers of
men would inevitably lead them to the truth—
that the work was truly a translation, rendered
by one of the meek of the earth, not by his
own strength and wisdom, but by the gift and
power of the Holy Ghost. But just at this
critical point, the father of lies filled their ears
with that flimsy fabrication, the Spaulding Ro-
mance, and thus turned away the hearts of
men from the glorious opportunity of becoming
filled with God's holy word and having their
eyes opened to the grand panorama of events
from the beginning of creation even unto the
end. And Satan filled the hearts of men with
rage against him, whom they considered an
impostor, until they continually sought after
his life. He was waylaid, beaten and maligned,
but always delivered with his life, for his work
was not done.
	On the 6th of April, 1830, by power and au-
thority from God he organized the Church of
Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, and to un-
consecrated eyes it must have seemed a small
matter—only six members—but God blessed
them and called them His own, the Church
which should never be thrown down nor given
to another people; the little stone cut out of
the mountain without hands, which should roll
forth in power and great glory until it should
fill the whole earth. And God nourished and
strengthened His small Church and gave line
upon line, precept upon procept, and revelation

[Column 3]
after revelation for their guidance. And they
grew in numbers and strength until they pur-
chased counties and founded cities, and built
temples to the Most High God. And Joseph
increased in wisdom and in favor with God
and labored diligently for the perfection of the
Saints, teaching them their duties both spirit-
ual and temporal. He impressed upon their
minds the words of Jesus, "Except ye are one
ye are none of mine;" also our national maxim
"Union is strength." And by their success in
embodying these precepts in their actions they
became a power in the land, and their neigh-
bors began to look upon them with jealous eyes
because of their worldly prosperity, and because,
as they averred, these people whom they in
scorn had dubbed "Mormons," now held a bal-
ance of political power between two opposing
parties. They began to cry "priestcraft," "de-
lusion," "one-man-power," and to denounce the
union of the Mormons as something unrepubli-
can and dangerous. They sought every occa-
sion to malign and annoy individuals, especially
Joseph Smith, his brother Hyrum and all the
officers of the Church: Then began a crusade
of accusations, arrests and detentions, hard to
endure, but always ending in the discomfiture
and chagrin of the accusers, until weary with
fruitless attempts to injure their hated neigh-
bors under cover of law, they entered upon a
course of unlawful persecutions which, in some
cases, provoked retaliation, which perhaps fur-
nished a pretext for scenes of plunder, violence
and murder, worthy the darkest of the dark
ages. The prophet and his brethren were re-
peatedly thrown into prison, and as fast as one
false charge fell to the ground another would be
brought forward. At last God's anointed
Prophet and his noble brother were slain by a
painted mob while imprisoned on another false
charge, and under the pledged protection of the
Governor of the State; and that same Govern-
or, at the time of the attack upon the jail, was
haranguing the prophet's people, promising
safety for him and justice for themselves. God
and his own soul know if he was in league with
the dastardly assassins.
	By no means were the evil doers satisfied
with the death of the Smith brothers, though
they boasted loudly that their death would put
an end to the Mormon Church, but now they
fixed their covetous eyes on the possessions of
their neighbors, and continued their deeds of
violence until the Saints were obliged to aban-
don their homes, and in winter, with their aged
and infirm, their young and old, their weak
and strong, turn their backs upon their coun-
try and the whole civilized world, and set their
faces toward the setting sun to seek asylum and
liberty of conscience far away amid the ever-
lasting solitudes.
	Oh the anguish of leaving their beautiful
homes, the graves of their kindred, the Temples
wherein they had labored and rejoiced, and to
crown their afflictions they must leave the
shadow of the star spangled banner, which
waves over the land of the free and the home
of the brave! They loved the dear old flag
for which their kindred blood had been shed
at Lexington and Bunker Hill, but now, in
their extremity, it afforded them no protection.
They had broken no law, yet that modern Pi-
late, Governor Boggs, had signed a decree for
their expulsion from the State, and the Presi-
dent of the United States, when petitioned,
said, "Your cause is just, but I can do nothing
for you."


[Column 1]
	So these oppressed ones turned away, fol-
lowed by the jeers of their despoilers, who ex-
ultingly affirmed that no white man could exist
among the barren wastes to which they were
bound, that the wilderness would devour them,
leaving not one alive to tell the tale. And
even now they were not allowed to depart in
peace. Whether it were from motives of econ-
omy, to get some good service out of men already
death-doomed, or whether hoping that so un-
a request would be refused and thus afford rea-
sonable pretext for further acts of violence
towards the fugitives, cannot now be known,
but certain it is, the outcasts were followed by
a requisition for five hundred picked men to
go to the war in Mexico.
	It must be that some hearts swelled in in-
dignant protest against this impudent demand
for the flower of their strength to fight for the
country which had alienated them. How
could it be otherwise, when they were asked to
give up their prop and stay, their right hand
and eye, just when on the eve of entering an
unknown country, swarming with lurking
savages and teeming with all manner of per-
ils?
	But their new leader, Brigham Young,
cheered and comforted them, promising in the
name of Israel's God that would they cheer-
fully comply with this call, and testify to the
last their reverence for their country's flag,
their dear ones should return to them safely,
and a great blessing should follow. And he
reasoned with them, that with their force un-
impaired, they would still be wholly dependent
upon their God for aid and protection, and
He was just as able to defend the weak as the
strong. He said, "The word of our God is with
us that we are to do His work of the Latter
Day Dispensation, therefore we know that we
shall not perish, but shall be brought safely to
a land of promise as was Israel of old."
	They had faith to believe these things, and
the five hundred men were quickly mustered
and prepared, as well as their scanty means
would permit, for the formidable march across
the continent. How the hearts of these men
must have swelled with grief when they thus
left all that earth held dear to struggle, without
their aid, through the very jaws of danger and
death in search of security and life! And yet,
to this day, some there be who dare say that
these men abandoned their aged parents, their
tender wives and their helpless children ex-
posed, with scanty defense, to the fury of the
elements, to hunger, thirst, fatigue and sickness,
to natural death at the hands of savage foes,
and death from the fangs of ravenous beasts—
for the paltry consideration of thirteen dollars
a month—and they bound for a place where
the labor of their hands was their only means
of existence, and money of no more value than
the gravel of these arid hills.
	But did the camp of Israel move with heavy
feet, amid tears and lamentations over their
hard fate? Not so. They who trust in God
utterly, are always light of heart, for they
know their friend is ever near. They made a
cheerful noise to their God, praising him in
prayer and song and with the music of instru-
ments, acknowledging that all their seeming
misfortunes were blessings in disguise.
	Sister Eliza R. Snow, poet and priestess
among the exiles, thus describes a halt in the
early part of the exodus, during inclement
weather, at a place where they had scarcely
room to stand and none to repose:
	"The brethren built a roaring fire, around
which some of them stood and sung songs and
hymns all night, while others parched corn,
roasted potatoes, etc. Not a complaint was
heard—al! were cheerful, and judging from
appearances, strangers would have taken us to
be pleasure excursionists instead of a band of
gubernatorial exiles."
	Could anything else but God's own presence

[Column 2]
and support have converted so forlorn a ven
ture into even the semblance of a pleasure ex
cursion? How deep the philosophy of wear
ing pain like pleasure until we forget that it is
pain!
	But even these devoted pilgrims could not
always forget their pain, for the song of praise
was sometimes changed to a funeral dirge, and
then the weak part of human nature claimed
its tribute of blistering tears and heartrending
sighs. But for them, as for those who burned
their ships, there was no return. Forward they
must go whatever befell.
	They were sustained, and their almost im-
possible undertaking accomplished. They ar-
rived at the present site of Salt Lake, Rose of
Western Cities, on the 24th of July, 1847, and
made haste to consecrate the spot with prayer
and song, thanksgiving and joy. They unfurled
to the breeze the star spangled banner of their
loved and lost land of the free and home
of the brave; and took possession of the alien
soil in the name of God and the United States.
Yet to this day, there be some who dare to say
that these devoted patriots were not, and are
not loyal!
	On the same day, before the sun set, they
broke the primeval soil and planted grain;
thus setting sign and seal upon their determin-
ation to go forth upon the face of the land and
subdue it.
	And the privations and hardships which they
endured before and after that day, and the
trials which they met and overcame, are they
not written in the book of chronicles? But
the half has never been told, nor can be until
the great day when the books shall be opened
and all men shall be judged from the records
therein, whether for good or for evil.
	Time passed on. Their brave Battalion
boys did return to them, with but the loss of a
single man; and strange to relate, although our
exiles had pitched their tents beyond the bor-
der of the United States, and there established
a form of government and a code of laws in
imitation of those of their own beloved home,
the fortunes of that very war, in aid of which
the flower of their strength had been called
away in time of their direst need, had extend-
ed the boundaries of the United States, until
their new home had become part of that en-
lightened nation, a part of whose people had
rejected them. And they rejoiced that since
they might not return to their country, their
country had come to them; and they considered
that thus the promise of the Lord, made
through Brigham Young, was abundantly re-
deemed.
	And now briefly review the achievements of
this vanguard of civilization in the short space
of thirty-seven years. Alone, unaided and un-
sustained by the parent government, Utah's
band of orphan children have smoothed the
rugged aspect of nature, clothed desolation
with beauty, and transformed gaunt famine in-
to rosy, smiling abundance. By doing this
they made the trans-continental highway pos-
sible, and it is admitted, on all hands, that this
communication between the eastern and west-
ern shores advanced the occupation of all
these broad Western Territories a hundred
years. They eat not the bread of idleness, but
labor with the hands diligently. They have
built pleasant homes and peopled them with
sturdy, energetic sons and daughters, and
adopted thousands of brothers and sisters who
came from foreign lands. They have sent mes-
sengers all over the world to proclaim the glad
tidings of great joy, which they have tested and
know to be sufficient to sustain the human
heart through the darkest hours of trial. They
have established various useful industries, and
they have built Temples, churches and school-
houses. Not a hamlet in all Utah which does
not endeavor to support a school for the intel-
lectual cultivation of its children. They

[Column 3]
print and buy yearly thousands of dollars
worth of books and papers, and encourage their
youth to read, study and learn. And yet, to this
day, there be some who dare to say that the
brave pioneers of a new world are willfully
ignorant and degraded, and willing their child-
ren should be so also.
	But let Zion rejoice in the God of her salva-
tion, whose outstretched arm is mighty to save;
and let her sons and daughters rejoice in the
third and final Gospel diepensation, when the
Great Shepherd has set His hand for the last
time to gather His scattered sheep. Let us re-
joice that we have been found worthy to be
called and set to labor in the whitening harvest.
Let us rejoice in our parents, in our husbands
and wives, and in the lovely children which
spring up around us like the flowers in the
field. Let us rejoice in the high calling to
which they are called—to become saviors on
Mount Zion to both the living and the dead.
	And finally, let us rejoice in Zion, which is
to become beautiful and glorious like a bride
adorned for the coming of the bridegroom; and
which is to become a beacon light and an ark
of refuge to all the nations of the earth. And
let us pray unceasingly to be found blameless
and unspotted in the great day of her purifica-
tion, with our lamps filled and ready when the
Bridegroom cometh. Amen.


