SAD OCCURRENCES.

	There are great events transpiring at the pres-
ent time which cannot fail but bring to the
mind of every Latter-day Saints the truth of the
fulfilment of prophecy, ancient and modern.
One of the most notable occurrences is the great
earthquake which took place a short time ago in
England, and there was a terrific shock on the
10th of this month on the eastern coast of the
United States, extending from Sandy Hook to
Portland, Maine. Although no great damage,
or very serious at least, was done, yet it carried
consternation to many thousands of people and
will, no doubt, help to fill men and women with
terror and dismay, as has been prophesied should
be the case in the last days. Asssuredly the Lord
is showing His indignation by thunderings and
lightnings and "earthquakes in divers places,"
and other great calamities and accidents which
seem to be constantly transpiring and fear is tak-
ing hold upon the people, notwithstanding
many assert to the contrary.
	The wicked still continue to persecute the
Saints and seek the lives of those who are labor-
ing to proclaim the Gospel to the honest among
the nations.
	The latest instance of mobocracy occurred
in a place called Cane Creek, Lewis Co., Tenes-
see on Sunday, August 10, while a meeting was
being held on the farm of a man named Con-
der. Twelve masked men appeared upon the
scene, and it is authenticically stated that five
persons (at least) are killed and one woman
thought to be fatally wounded, Mrs. Conder,
wife of the man on whose farm the meeting
was being held. What pain and suffering; what
anguish of soul will be caused by this terrible
tragedy. Innocent, inoffensive, honest young
men, sent to proclaim the glad tidings of salva-
tion and seeking to bring souls to a knowledge
of the truth. Leaving home and all the tender
associations of kindred and friends; going with-
out purse or scrip as the Great Examplar in-
structed His disciples to, depriving themselves
of the comforts and privileges they enjoyed in
Zion willingly to labor in the Master's vineyard.
It is hardly creditable that such dark deeds
could have been enacted as the killing of these
Elders while engaged in devotional exercises on
the Sabbath day; that such a condition of
things could exist in this far-famed land of re-
ligious liberty. Yet so it is. How humiliating
to think that our poor country of which we have
been so proud to boast has fallen into such dis-
grace. What a blight, what a stigma on the na-
tion's escutcheon, that ministers of the Gospel
Jesus taught, while in the discharge of their
important duties should be attacked by a mob
armed and disguised, their lives threatened,
and some even slain. But they are slain for the


testimony of Jesus, and it will be in this in-
stance as it ever has been, "The blood of the
martyrs" will be "the seed of the Church."
	All the particulars of this dastardly outrage
have not as yet been obtained, but enough is al-
ready known to make one weep and mourn for
those who have thus been cut off in the prime
of manhood, and for the dear ones to whom they
were bound by the purest and holiest ties of hu-
man love.


[Column 1]
