[WomansExponent | Vol3 | 1874 | April | Issue: 21 | Title: LOCAL. | Author: Unknown]

			LOCAL.
	New postmasters have been appointed at
Kaysville, Davis County, Beaver city, Bea-
ver county and Gunnison Sanpete county
......Several heavy snowslides occurred, in
Little Cottonwood kanyon on Saturday and
Sunday the 20th and 21st ult. but fortu-
nately, so far as known, no lives were lost
in consequence......Governor Axtell lectured
to an animated audience in this city, on the
evening of the 21st ult.  His subject was
the "Iron Bedstead," which he handled in
a highly interesting manner......The Lin-
gards have just filled a successful engage-
ment at the Theatre......Thomas Ricks, who
was lately on trial in the third district court
for alleged murder, has been honorably ac-
quitted.
			LITERARY.
	W. G. Willis has dramatized Kingsley's 
Hypatia......A five-act drama for the French
Theatre in Berlin is to be written by Alex-
andre Dumas......Walter Scott's Guy Man-
nering has been published by the Peterson
Brothers, New York......Professor John
Morgan of Oberlin, has three accomplished
daughters, who are engaged in a family
school at Munich, Bavaria, where they in-
struct young ladies in art, language and gen-
eral culture......Miss Closson, a young lady
who has spent six years in Western Turkey,
is giving lectures in the East, in which she
is said to offer very interesting accounts of
the Turkish people.
			PERSONAL
	The widow of Captain Hall, the arctic ex-
plorer, is living in Cincinnati, and is said to
be in want......Vice President Wilson is
taking a tour through the Southern States
......Bayard Taylor will soon commence a
course of lectures at Cornell University, in
which he will give descriptive sketches of
the lives of Lessing, Goethe, Schiller, Heine,
and their fellow authors in Germany since
1750......Lieut. Commander Bowman H.
McCalla, of the Navy was recently married
to Lillie, daughter of Gen. Horace Binney
Sargent.
			FOREIGN.
	A gale on the Irish and British coasts
was lately the occasion of great damage to
shipping and the loss of several lives......
The Emperor of Austria and King Victor
Emanuel will meet at Venice some time
this month......Lola, a Spanish steamer has
been seized for smuggling and sold at Vera
Cruz......A shock of earthquake was re-
cently felt at Minatitlan and Orazava, Mexi-
co......The Emperor of Austria is reported
to have accepted the resignation of Baron
Sanborn, Minister-at-Washington.
			POLITICAL.
The Republican party in New Hampshire,
was victorious at a recent election......The 
Earlville (Ill.) "Transcript," says the Legis-
lature has been a down right disgrace to
that State. Judging from accounts, the
same might truthfully be said of the Leg-
islature of several other States......Johnson
and Booth, United States Senators, emphat-
ically refuse to go into caucus with either
party......The Pacific Railroad bill, though
much was done to secure its passage, met
with defeat in the House of Representa-
tives......The extra session of the Senate
expired March 24th.
			GENERAL.
	The first child born of Japanese parents in
this country is a daughter to the  wife of
the Japanese Minister at Washington......

[Column 2]
The Court House at Kingston, Ont., was
burned on the 24th ult., loss $100,000......A
terrible tornado recently occurred in Geor-
gia, doing great damage and causing consid-
erable loss of life......Great dearth of water
is reported at Lancaster, Pennsylvania......A
member of the Illinois Legislature wants a
bill passed to make it a penal offence for one
person to treat another to any intoxicating
drink.


A BRIGHT-EYED boy of four years was
saying his prayers the other night to his
mother, and with his hands folded and eyes
closed, he sweetly said:
	"Now I lay me down to sleep,
	I pray the Lord my soul to keep:
	If I should die before I wake,
	I pray the Lord my soul to take.
	God bless papa, mamma and—"
	He stopped all at once, opened his eyes
and exclaimed:
	"Mother, mother, what shall I say if I
have been a bad boy?"
	"You should not stop to ask questions, my
son, while you are saying your prayers," re-
plied his mother.
	"But, mother, I have been bad; what
shall I say?"
	"Ask God to forgive you; but you should
say your prayers all through when you be-
gin without stopping."
	His question answered, he reverently
folded his hands, and closing his eyes, con-
tinued: 
	"And will God forgive me for killing a 
hop toad with a big stick, and throwing it
down a big hole? Amen!"
	Children of a larger growth will do well
to copy.


[Column 1]
