[WomansExponent | Vol3 | 1874 | April | Issue: 21 | Title: TALK NUMBER ONE. | Author: Unknown]

		TALK NUMBER ONE.
	TO EVERY BRANCH OF THE RELIEF
	MY BELOVED SISTERS:—God has called us to
an important amd highly responsible position;
and, let me ask, for what purpose? Is it not
that we may efficiently assist in the establish-
ing and building up of His kingdom?
	The kingdom of God can never be built up
until it has been established, and it will never
be firmly established until it is self-sustaining.
Pres. Young, and, in connexion with him, a
portion of the Priesthood, have been, for years,
laboring in this direction. He has led out, and
set the example, in nearly, if not every depart-
ment of home-industry, now in successful oper-
ation in Zion. It is true, much has been ac-
complished; and yet, how very much remains
to be done before we shall become independent?
How much before we shall cease to be a promi-
nent source of profit to our enemies? How
much, before, instead of constant heavy out-
[Column 2]
lays, we shall realize not only what we shall
require for home supplies, but an income from
each department of industry, with which to
aid in building temples, gathering the poor,
and in beautifying Zion.
	Another important question—what has wo-
man to do in bringing about these grand re-
sults?
	The exaltation of the human family could
not be effected without the aid of woman. Her
assistance is needed in every department of the
great work of salvation, for the living and the
dead. In those departments where her pres-
ence and her labors are not required, her influ-
euce, through her faith and prayers, and her
words of encouragement may be productive of
many good results. There is nothing that ap-
pertains to the welfare of Zion, in which the
interests of man and of woman are not equal,
and in which their efforts should not be mu-
tual.
	My Sisters, when we received the fulness of
the Everlasting Gospel, and went into the wa-
ters of baptism, we became, symbolically at
least, dead to the world, having "put on
Christ." We obeyed the call "Come out of her
(Babylon), my people, that ye partake not of
her sins, and receive not of her plagues"—
gathered to the places appointed—for what pur-
pose? Not to build ourselves up after the man-
ner of the Gentiles, by assimilating ouirselves
into their likeness, but we gathered that we
might become "a peculiar people—zealous of
good works," and build up the Zion of God,
and His kingdom, the government of which
will give protection to the honest in heart from
good of all creeds, when the "overflowing
scourge shall sweep the earth as with the be-
som of destruction."
	I humbly call on my sisters to reflect, and to
reflect seriously. There must be a stop to our
waste of energies, and waste of substance by
useless expenditures and, especially, on super-
fluities. Let us all unite our influence and our
labors, to check the ebbing tide of temporal
prosperity: and to those who are asleep, and
apparently indifferent to the interests of Zion,
I almost feel to apply the words of an ancient
prophet, "Woe to the women that are at ease
in Zion." Let us assist with all the energies of
our souls, in breaking the chains with which
we, as a people, are bound; for just as long as
we are in debt to, or dependent on our enemies
for the necessaries and comorts of life, we are
virtually their slaves.
	We have no interests outside the kingdom
of God, and, as individuals, how much so ever
we may accumulate of this world's goods, we
are only prosperous in proportion as Zion pros-
pers.
	After having said so much, I come to the
point, and make an appeal to my sisters of the
Relief Society, (which should include all virtu-
ous Latter-day Saint women) to call your men-
tal and physical powers into action and lead
out in establishing Home Industries. This is
an important mission which now devolves on
us. Ask wisdom of God—counsel together and
deliberately decide what branch or branches of
businesses will be most likely to succeed in your
particular Ward or Settlement, and promptly
adopt measures for its promotion.
	Pres. Young recommends silk culture as one
very profitable branch for the sisters, and offers,
free of charge, all the cuttings they wish, from
the Mulberry orchard on his farm, south of the
city; with this requisition: that they shall be
cut by a man who understands the business.
They should be set as soon as the frost is out
of the ground, or before the leaves start. In
two years from setting, they will support the
worms.


If the Society cannot, "either for love or
money," obtain ground for the purpose, it
would be well for individuals to set cuttings
around their home lots, where they will serve
the double purpose of shade trees and of feed-
ing silkworms. I have just heard of a sister in
one of our Southern settlements, who has
manufactured from her own raised silk, several
choice articles, one of which is a beautiful net-
ted shawl one yard and a quarter in size, and
nearly embroidered.
	In Ogden, the Relief Society under the Presi-
dency of Sister J. S. Richards, has set an ex-
ample worthy of imitation, in the line of Straw
Manufacture. Forty young ladies and girls
have been trained, during the past winter, to
braid, and are now being taught in the other
branches, sewing, &c. An energetic move-
ment is being made in the same direction, in
this city, by which we intend furnishing straw-
work to supply the city. Also, one Society of
young ladies is starting the business of knit-
ting woolen yarn into ladies' sacques, jackets,
shawls, baby-shoes, mits, &c. &c. We have a
competent teacher—One who followed this
branch of industry in England. Even this,
although it may seem a small institution, will
greatly aid in our becoming self-sustaining, by
preventing an outlay of thousands of dollars,
annually sent abroad for these articles; and,
under wise management, will become a lucra-
tive business.
