EDITOR EXPONENT:

	I have just laid down the "Woman's
Journal" with a good, long, comfortable
sigh of thankfulness that woman has at last

[Column 2]
found good and wise friends to speak in her
behalf, and better still, that some of them
know just exactly what to say for them-
selves.
	The way they tear off disguises and re-
veal the real state of things, looks much
like a decisive refusal longer to occupy the
inferior and dependent position which their
"natural guardians" have so long considered
their just due.
	If Francis Parkman, with his flimsy ex-
cuse for a double moral code and the su-
premacy of muscle over mind and morals,
is not convinced of his error by the able,
eloquent, sensible replies to his laborious
effort at justification of the one-sided and
deplorable state of human affairs heretofore
prevailing, I think he should be classed
with the willfully wicked who speak from
selfish motives rather than for the best good
of all. The man who opposes the equal
rights of women cannot deny nor conceal,
when defining his position, that his great
dread is to lose the dear privilege of dictat-
ing to some woman and pocketing her
money. It is the same selfish, domineering
spirit, in smaller compass, which in all
ages has led men—and women too—to sac-
rifice peace and honor, and risk life itself,
to grasp a sceptre, and with it the opportu-
nity of taking away other people's wills
and substituting their own. In the case of
woman it is done by man, under the pre-
tence of protecting her; but since the only
protection she has any need of is from the
violence and injustice of men, how bitter a
jest it is. And since it takes the form of
imposing all manner of legal and social in-
justice upon her, the wonder is that the
most insensible specimen of the creature
called man does not blush for shame of the
mocking pretence of protection.
	Witness how directly Mrs. Elizabeth
Cady Stanton goes to the heart of the mat-
ter when she says in her mild and forcible
manner: "Chance insults from the lower
orders are light indeed compared with those
which are coined into laws and constitutions
by our husbands, fathers, brothers, sons."
	The wisest and best of women seem to
have learned, and I feel in a hopeful mood
that the simplest will soon learn, that self-
protection is the best.
	How encouraging, too, to read so liberal
and fair an argument on rights, and the
source of rights, as that just completed by
William I. Bowditch. Even his criticism
on the Suffrage in Utah exhibits a very un-
usual degree of fairness and clear moral
perceptions. How admirably he sums up
the whole case:
	"Suffrage is neither a manly act nor yet
a womanly act; but the act of a human be-
ing, who, as part of the people, has an in-
herent right to express or refuse consent to
the form of government under which he or
she lives, because	*	*	*	government
derives its just powers from the consent of
the governed,	*	*	*	and from no other
source under heaven." Such noble senti-
ments, so wholly in accordance with the
spirit of our glorious Constitution, honor
him who upholds them, and are utterly be-
yond refutation.
	Again, in the Report of the Annual Con-
vention of the Rhode Island Woman Suf-
frage Association, that same Mrs. Stanton
fires a most magnificent shot into the camp
of those who prate so much about woman's
sphere being her home, by reminding our
gentle lawmakers that woman has no home,
no children, not even a wardrobe; "they all
belong to some man." "A Daniel come to 
judgment," I say. Permit us, kind pro-
tectors, to have homes and children, and
see what we will do with them. L. L. D.


