HOME AFFAIRS.

	THE Quarterly Conference of this Stake of
Zion convened in the Salt Lake Assembly
Hall, 10 o'clock a. m., January 3d, 1880, Presi-
dent Angus M. Cannon presiding. There was
a very large attendance of the authorities of
the Church and local officers of the Stake,
Bishops and others. The house was filled, and
on Sunday afternoon, hundreds were obliged
to leave as there was not even standing room.
A good spirit prevailed throughout the Confer-
ence, which continued two days, and much
general instruction and counsel was given to
the people for their comfort and guidance.

	WE learn through the Deseret News and Salt
Lake Herald that Susa Young and Jacob F.
Gates were united in marriage on the 5th of
January, 1880, and that the ceremony was per-
formed by President B. Young and
has been an occasional contributor to our paper.
We wish the young couple all the blessings
which result from a union of the affections, and
trust their future life may be a serene a[-]d plea-
sant one. We hope the young lady will con-
tinue to exercise her literary and musical capa-
bilities.

	THE Total Eclipse of the sun on Sunday,
January 11th, was extremely interesting. It
took place shortly after 3 o'clock p.m , but only
lasted a few seconds, yet while visible the ef-
fect was most charming upon the sky and
snowy scenery. The color of the reflection up-

[Column 2]
on the mountains was very peculiar and the
heavens were indeed resplendent. The scene
was indeed a romantic one, and must be full of
interest to the experienced scientist, and in-
deed to all who appreciate the relative positions
and movements of the heavenly bodies, and
their effect upon each other and the principles
that govern, control and guide them.

	AT the Salt Lake Assembly Hall, in this city,
January 3rd, 1880, at 7 o'clock p. m., a meeting
of Relief Societies, Mutual Improvement As-
sociations, Sunday Schools and Primary Asso-
ciations of this Stake convened.
	There were present on the stand: Pres. John
Taylor and Elder Joseph F. Smith, of the
Twelve Apostles, Elders Angus M. Cannon,
Joseph E. Taylor and David O. Calder, the Pre-
sidency of this Stake. Of the Relief Society,
M. Isabella Horne, her Counselors, Elmina
L. Taylor, and Sarepta M. Heywood, Eli-
zabeth Howard, Secretary, and Mrs. E. B.
Wells. Mrs. M. A. Freeze, President of the Y.
L. M I. A., and Louie Felt, her First Counsel-
or. Junius F. Wells, President and Joseph
H. Felt, President of Salt Lake Co., Y. M.
M. I. A, his Counselers John W. Taylor and
George C. Lambert, and Heber J. Grant, Secre-
tary. Elder George Goddard, Superintendent
of Sunday Schools, and his Counselors Elders
Wm. Willis and Samuel L. Evans.
	Meeting opened with singing and prayer.
	Elder Joseph H. Felt read a report of the Y.
M. I. A. of the Stake for the quarter, and made
some general remarks on the subject, stating
that there were thirty-six of these associations in
the Stake, all moving on satisfactorily. The
superintendents were now collecting money for
the purpose of erecting a monument to the
memory of Elder Joseph Slanding, who was
martyred by a mob in Georgia. The subscrip-
tions were limited to 25 cents each, so that all
who desired might contribute, and was not
limited to members of these Associations.
	Mrs. Elizabeth Howard read the report of 
the Relief Societies of the Stake for the quar-
ter.
	Mrs. M. I. Horne made a brief verbal report
of the condition of the Societies and the mani-
fest improvement which had been made and
was still in progress through these institutions.
Though the results of the labors of societies seem-
ed small, yet they were [--]i[-]g a quiet but nev-
ertheless powerful influence for the elevation
and enlightenment of the sisters, besides reliv-
ing the poor, administering to the sick and
comforting the sorrowful. Considered it very
important that mothers should study the prin-
ciples of the gospel and apply them in their
own lives that they might be qualified to raise
children that would prove a source of joy to
them and a credit to the cause. She felt thank-
ful for the organizations and had seen great
benefits already derived from the Societies, and
knew that the work of the sisters was a very
important one.

	Mrs. M. A. Freeze read the report of the Y.
L. M. I. A. for the quarter and gave a verbal
report. Said they taught the young ladies to
respect and honor the priesthood and prepare
themselves for positions of usefulness in assist-
ing to establish the Kingdom of God. She felt
they were a great blessing to the daughters of
Zion.
	Mrs. E. B. Wells represented the Pri-
mary Associations as there was no gen-
eral Stake organization as yet. She stated
there were twenty-three of these associations.
There was quite a full attendance at the meet-
ings which were held weekly, at which they
enjoyed an excellent spirit. Some persons
could not yet see the necessity of these associa-

[Column 3]
tions, but she considered they met a want that
was not filled in the Sunday Schools. In these
meetings the very young could express them-
selves to each other, the little ones feeling that
these were their own meetings. The interest
in them was constantly increasing as they be-
came better understood. Too much could not
be done for the young in the right direction,
and early impressions were the most lasting;
but though these associations would accomplish
much good, yet the great labor of training the
children in the fear of the Lord, the foundation
must be laid by the mother, upon her teaching
and example devolved great responsibility.
	Superintendent George Goddard gave a verbal
report of the Sunday Schools, said there were
35 Sunday Schools in this Stake, with 5,000
names enrolled, and an average attendance of
4,000. The object was similar to that of the
other associations that had been represented, to
teach the young to honor respect and obey the
laws and commandments of God. Spoke of the
efforts being made to introduce our own
Church books for the use of the schools. Spoke
of the difficulty of obtaining experienced tea-
chers who would be punctual in attending.
	Prest. Taylor said he felt gratified with the
reports. The Relief Societies had done a great deal
of good in relieving the needy and visiting the
sick. The sisters were better adapted to certain
cases than men would be. They had been in-
defatigable in their labors, and he felt to bless
and encourage them. They should seek to act
in harmony with the Priesthood, conferring
and counseling with the brethren in the per-
formance of their labors in the midst of the
Saints. The other Associations that had been re-
ported were also doing a good work in teaching
the young to avoid error and learn the principles
of truth and virtue. He felt to encourage them,
to inform themselves on all principles that
would elevate them and increase their faith in
God. Not in the so-called enlightenment that
would lead them to deny the existence of a
God. Alluded to the pleasant and commodious
hall in which they were then congregated.
	Elder Junius F. Wells spoke spoke upon the condi-
tion of the Associations, the marked improve-
ment that had been made, and the great num-
ber of the young people who were gifted with
literary ability, which was being developed by
having manuscript papers published in their
respective Associations as well as the Contribu-
tor, the organ of these Associations; thought a
little practice would enable them to handle
almost any subject in a creditable manner.
Referred to the experience it gave to the young
Elders previous to their going out upon mis-
sions, and many other points of special inter-
est.
	Dismissed with singing. Benediction by
Elder Joseph F. Smith.


