WOMEN'S ORGANIZATIONS.

The organization of the Relief Society in
Nauvoo, Ill., in March, 1842, opened per-
haps one of the most important eras in the
history of woman. It presented the great
woman-question to the Latter-day Saints,
previous to the woman's rights organizations,
which have created such extensive agita-
tion of the subject since, in America, Great
Britain and Europe. The question did not
present itself in any aggressive form as
woman opposed to man, but as a co-worker
and helpmeet in all that relates to the well-
being and advancement of both, and mu-
tual promoting of the best interests of the
community at large. It has given to wo-
man, in its rise and progress, influence on
almost all subjects that pertain to her wel-
fare and happiness, and opportunities for
expressing her own thoughts, views and
opinions; all of which has had a tendency
to make her intelligent in regard to mat-
ters which before were considered incom-
patible with "woman's sphere," and unin-
telligible to her "weaker" mind.
	Through these organizations an immense
work has been done in developing the fac-
ulties and capabilities of woman, that never
could have been effected except through
some permanent organization, or associa-
tion, for mutual help, benefit, and inter-
change of ideas.
	The developments and progression made
since the commencement of these societies,
which exist now throughout the extent of
the settlements of the Latter-day Saints,
was not dreamed of in the beginning.
They are educational in the most general
sense; all subjects, religious, moral and
mental, in their various bearings, are dis-
cussed, and instruction is given on all mat-
ters pertaining to life, health and happi-
ness. One of the strongest features of this
remarkable organization is the cultivation
of the gift of faith. That great power has
been manifested under the hands of sisters
in administering to the sick is a fact to
which many can testify; and is not this one
positive proof that the Lord recognizes
them and approves their labors in this di-
rection? Is there anything more heavenly
than to give comfort and relief to the sick
and distressed? We think not.
	In reference to this subject it seems ap-
propriate to give the Prophet Joseph's
words to the Relief Society in session in 
Nauvoo, from his own journal:
	"I met the members of the Female
Relief Society, and after presiding at
the admission of many new members,
gave a lecture on the priesthood, showing
how the sisters would come in possession of
the privileges, blessings and gifts of the
priesthood, and that the signs should fol
low them—such as healing the sick, casting
out devils, &c., and that they might attain
unto these blessings by a virtuous life and
conversation, and diligence in keeping all
the commandments."
	It is gratifying to know that there are
sisters still living who listened to the teach-
ings of the Prophet Joseph, and heard him
prophesy in regard to the glorious work
that would be accomplished through the
energy, industry and capability of the sis-
ters, with the blessing of God upon their
labors.
	Foremost among those connected with
teh Relief Society of Nauvoo we are proud
to mention the name of our aged sister and
Mother in Israel, Elizabeth Ann Whitney,
who was Counselor to the President of that
organization; Sister Eliza R. Snow, who
was the able and efficient Secretary, and
Sarah M. Kimball, one of its originators and

[Column 2]

most active and eminent workers. These
ladies, with others who are still living, are
among the pioneers of this woman move-
ment, or are indeed the very ones who have
aided most vigorously in laying the founda-
tion for us who are now engaged in this
work. How thankful we are that they still
live, and others who took part in those early
days, when so little was known of woman's 
fitness for positions of trust, or her ability
to transact business for the public good.
	Sisters Mercy R. Thompson, Zina D.
Young, Phebe Woodruff, Marinda Hyde,
Amanda Smith, Bathsheba W. Smith, Louisa
B. Pratt and others whose names are honor-
able, were members of that Society in its
infancy. We honor them as women of God
who not only accepted in humility and
meekness the additional responsibility
placed upon them, but who have continued
in the good work from year to year, aiding,
assisting and advising, and though they
have grown grey in the cause of truth, yet
falter not, but maintain with steadfastness
and integrity, the principles of righteous-
ness, and sustain those who are walking in
the same straight and narrow way.
	Many of those whose names were en-
rolled as members of that first organization
sleep now in the cold and silent tomb; but
think you, my good friends, their glorified
spirits are idle? No. They are at work:
we know not where nor how, but this we
know, that in the economy of heaven there
is no inactivity. We are instructed that
the spirits of men who pass behind the
vail are engaged in preaching to the spirits
in prison, as Christ, who went "to preach
to the spirits in prison that were sometime
disobedient in the days of Noah," &c. If
there is specified work for man there is also
a place for woman, of this rest assured;
and in the good time of the Lord, through
the revelations of His holy will, it will be
revealed.
	Among those who were actively engaged
in the work of the Society at a very early
period, we ought to make honorable men-
tion of Vilate Murray Kimball, who was
well known as an efficient adviser and one
of the most benevolent and sympathetic
women who ever lived. She was greatly
beloved by all who knew her, and was a
woman of remarkable spiritual endow-
ments. In her experience she had won-
derful manifestations of a spiritual nature,
which we hope to write up at some future
time for the edification of our readers.
In speaking of these ladies who have fig-
ured conspicuously in the history of this
people, we do not depend altogether upon
the testimony of others; having been inti-
mately acquainted with all the ladies whose
names are mentioned, and with many of
the facts interwoven in the incidents which
form a portion of the history of the women
of this people. That the lives of the wo-
men of this age are quite as remarkable as
those of any period of the world we feel
assured; that great events are about to trans-
pire in which woman will perform an active
and important revolutionary part we are not
afraid to predict. The great question is, is
she preparing herself for the position she
is destined to occupy, and the work which
will consequently devolve upon her? This
subject opens up a wide field for disserta-
tion.		E. B. W.


[Column 1]
