PIPSEY PAPERS.

	How much trouble our friends are taking
in regard to polygamy. What a bugbear is
being made of it, and how much trouble
they seek to bring upon those whose only
crime is in marrying two or more women
with the free consent of all parties con-
cerned; and raising their families in respect-
ability and honor.
	This generation cannot accept the idea
that God is wise enough to know what is
best for His children, or cares enough for
them to communicate with them now as
He did in days of old. Men want to estab-
lish their own ideas of doctrine, and ways
of thinking. If that be the proper course
why not let us have the same privilege; or,
if we are wrong, convince us of our error by
force of "moral suasion." It is true they
might find us like the lady who was holding
an argument with an eminent Divine."
"I fear madam said he, "you are not open
to conviction." "Oh! yes I am," she re-
plied, "but I should like to see the man
who could convince me." "But says one,
"do the Mormon women really like poly-
gamy?" No doubt many of them regard
it very much as the Englishman did his
greens. He said "they might be whole-
some, but they wern't palatable." (he had
cooked catnip and hoarhound). Notwith-
standing, to many it is not palatable, we all
know it is wholesome, both morally and
physically, but it is something which needs
careful handling, for the more pure and
chaste a thing is the easier it is soiled.
As polygamy itself is one of the purest prin-
ciples revealed by God in these last days, so
it is most susceptible to abuse; and those
who enter it through impure motives will
surely not prosper in this world nor receive
the blessings of God in the next. Speaking
of the women, no doubt they like it as well


[Column 1]
as the men, to whom it brings great care
and responsibility, and who if they simply
desired to gratify the demands of nature,
would prefer doing so in a way that would
not bring the responsibility, or perhaps,
more properly speaking, the consequences, 
on themselves.
	No man can marry even one wife, under
this Republican Government, without first
gaining her consent; how then will he
marry more, unless they are willing to
marry him. It can no longer be said, they
are tricked or fooled into it: that idea has
been done away with long ago, and women
are not such silly things as they were once
supposed to be. Love is a Divine attribute,
and it is woman's nature to love and desire
love.
	How much better that she should form a
virtuous attachment even though several
women should claim one man’s protection,
than silence the craving of her heart, drying
up the fountain of life and joy, or lavish
the wealth of her affections on some un-
worthy object who would cast her adrift on
the world a thing to be scorned and des-
pised, sinking continually lower in the
slough of degradation and misery.
	We accept polygamy as a revelation from
God, and hold it sacred as its nature de-
mands. We cannot do otherwise while we
believe Mormonism at all. There are
many who rebel, and determine never to
marry in it; but they seldom do better, and
sooner or later do the very thing they de-
termined not to do, or leave the Church
entirely.
	There was a young lady of my acquain-
tance who was sure she would never become
a plural wife, she would rather die. She
changed her mind, is a third wife, and
thinks her husband and baby are the nicest
of any.
	Some marry good men who die young
leaving them with small children, and no
one to provide for them. A single man
will seldom marry a widow but I firmly be-
lieve they find themselves much happier
in the family of some good man, than strug-
gling alone to provide for their little ones.
	There are some who will not marry a
Mormon for fear he will get more wives:
but when an outsider comes along, with
velvet lips and honeyed words, they mar-
ry him and in six months, a year or more
as the case may be, he has "pressing busi-
ness" elsewhere. Some are known to
return to their wives in the East others to
wander away and are never heard from
again,while the poor women are left, helpless
enough with one or two children to support,
and no father to care for them. Such
instances are not rare, even now when our
people are supposed to be more cautious in
regard to strangers than formely.
	What would become of these women in
the world. Much no doubt would depend
on their education and surroundings.
Some would "go to the bad." But few
would marry again. Here they marry into
respectable families, and live to review
their folly, wiser, for their sad experience.
	These are not the only classes that be-
come plural wives, no indeed! There are
many honest in heart, pure in their motives
and intentions, who accept it as a Divine
law and marry the men of their choice, re-
cognizing fully patriarchal family ties,
living happily, and raising beautiful famil-
ies; and where all parties are agreed who
shall condemn? True, there are many
trials in plural marriage, and many who
enter it are not wise enough to know the
right course, or brave enough to pursue
it: but there is a day coming when we shall

[Column 2]
see as we are seen, and know as we are
known. Then, "justice will be tempered
with mercy, and the crooked paths will be
made straight." Then perhaps, "They
that wear the cross below, shall wear the
crown above."				MARY.


