WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
		AN ADDRESS. 
BY MRS. A. K. IRVINE, DAUGHTER OF HAD-
LEY JOHNSON, ESQ., AT THE MINERAL
SPRINGS PICNIC—AND READ BEFORE THE
OREGON WOMAN’S SUFFRAGE ASSOCIA-
TlON. 	

[Published by Request of the Woman’s Suffrage Society.]
LADIES AND GENTLEMEN:
	In approaching the subject of Woman
and her rights, in the last quarter of the
19th century, I should as soon think of
quoting to you the moral and social codes
of a tribe of Australian apes, as to repeat to
you the obsolete traditions and supersti-
tions of a barbarous and ignorant age. The
dead past only belongs to the past, and has
nothing to do with the living present; yet,
examining here with you some of the
rights of woman, it will become necessary
to speak of some of the wrongs that society
inflicted upon her from time immemo-
rial. 
	The question of woman and her rights is
of such magnitude that one is bewildered
and at a loss where to begin, what points to
touch and where to leave off. I wish to re-
mind you that our first great grievance dates
from the foundation of the world. All the
crimes and miseries that have befallen the
[Column 2]
human race, since the creation, are directly
traceable to the first woman’s disobedience,
and some thousands of the women of this
age have decided to demand a new trial.
	I shall bring before you to day some of
the reasons that induce thinking, men and
women to espouse the cause of woman, and
show you, if possible, that the tendencies
of the age are decidedly progressive. It
can make very little difference to any here
what my own personal convictions on these
great questions are, but I propose to give 
you the utterances, opinions and sentiments
of some of the leading thinkers of the
present age. leaving you to accept or reject,
as may seem best to your reason.—We
claim at your hands equal education and
equal representation. It is no longer an
accepted fact that the Creator endowed man
with all the gifts that make life pleasant
and attractive, leaving our sex to grope in
darkness after the fruits of the tree of
knowledge. As early as the year 1810, of
the present century, Sidney Smith, an Eng-
lish Essayist, writing on Female Education
says: “A great deal has been said of the
original difference of capacity between men
and women, as if women were more quick,
and men more judicious; as if women were
more remarkable for delicacy of association,
and men for stronger powers of attention;
all this we confess appears to us very fanci-
ful. That there is a difference in the un-
derstandings of the men and women we
every day meet with every one we suppose
must perceive, but there is none surely
which may not be accounted for by the
different circumstances in which they have
been placed, without referring to conjectural
difference in the original conformation of
mind. As long as boys and girls run about
in the dirt and trundle hoops together they
are precisely alike. If you catch up one-
half of these creatures and train them to a
particular set of actions and opinions, and
the other half to a perfectly opposite sort,
of course their understandings will differ.
It is of great importance to a country that
there should be as many understandings as
possible actively employed within it. Can
anything be more absurd than to suppose
that the tender love which a mother feels
for her children depends upon her ignorance
of Greek and Mathematics, and that she 
would desert an infant for a quadratic equa-
tion. We seem to imagine that we may
break in pieces the solemn institutions of
nature by the little laws of a boarding
school, and that the existence of the human
race depends upon a little more or a little
less knowledge for women.” John Stuart
Mill, another english authority, writing on
subjection of women, says: “As for moral
difference, considered as distinguished from
intellectual,the distinction commonly drawn 
is in favor of woman. They are declared
to be better than men, an empty compliment
which must provoke a bitter smile from
every woman of spirit, since there is no
other situation in life in which it is the es-
tablished rule for the better to obey the 
worse.” Various arguments are brought to 
bear upon women from different sources to
convince them that they are much better as
they are; for instance, John Bright, of Eng-
land, a liberal in religion, tells us that the
priesthood will govern the country if wo-
men are enfranchised—while churchmen,
are busy, with tongue and pen warning the
Christian women of this great country that,
infidelity will surely swallow up the land,
if this movement for equality for woman is
allowed to go on. But all women are not-
dull enough, or indifferent enough, to ac-
cept as infallible the dogmas of either infi-
dels or churchmen, but begin to see as
[Column 3]
“through a glass darkly” that the flimsy
pretences offered for opposing justice to
women will not avail when tried as by fire.
But all liberals are not opposed to that per-
fect equality which we claim for women,
and many noble churchmen are rallying
around the standard of freedom. Bishop
Simpson, of the M. E. Church, has labored
long to instill those principles of truth and
justice, which will finally prevail. In our
State, indeed, in our own vicinity, we can
name a list of earnest, consistent clergy-
men who are glad to say a word for wo-
man's progress. Rev. John Wayman, of
St. Joseph, of the. M. E. Church, never
loses on opportunity to do battle for their
rights. Rev. Mr. Garrison of the Christian
Church, says: “That the time has fully
come for woman to take part in all that
concerns the welfare of the race, and that
nothing can be done with the vice of in-
temperance, until women armed with a
ballot shall assist in settling the vexed ques-
tion.” I could fill page after page with
names of great and good men who have
spent long lives in the study of this un-
solved problem of woman and her rights.
Wm. Lloyd Garrison, who lived to see the
foul blot of African slavery wiped out on
this continent, yet failed to realize his
hopes in regard to woman, thirty years
ago, refused to accept his seat as a delegate
in a Peace Convention in London, England,
because two eminent women were refused
the same honor after having made air ocean
voyage for the purpose; the women were
Lucretia Mott, of Philadelphia, and Eliza-
beth Cady Stanton of New Jersey. 
			(To be continued.)


