WINTER WINDS.

Oh, brave is the soul that ne'er feeleth a fear,
On a night in midwinter, so dismal and drear,
When the wierd, ghostly winds for a maddening rout
From their deep and unsearchable caverns are out.

They speak to my ear with thousands of tongues—
They tell of fierce passions and bitterest wrongs;
And sorrow and suffering burden their breath,
And the wearisome tale ends forever in—Death.

Like a maniac driven stark mad with despair,
Who gnashes his teeth and tears out his wild hair,
They howl in the skrinking and shuddering ear,
Dark tales of destruction, blood-curdling to hear.

Of distress guns at sea, scarcely heard through the roar
Of furious breakers that rush on the shore,
Ever shattered and mangled upon the sharp edge
Of bold, cruel rocks rising ledge over ledge.

The last gurgling cry of the seamen so brave,
Engulfed in the maw of the pitiless wave;
The moans of pale mothers convulsed to the soul,
Because o'er their loved ones the black billows roll.

They echo the thunder of battle's fell strife,
Where foemen are marshalled and murder is rife—
The groans of the dying, by feet trampled o'er,
Of victors exulting in slaughter and gore,

Then change their hoarse tones to the soul-piercing cry
Of poor, lonely children forsaken to die;
Who, wild with affright—half orphaned before—
Bewail their dead mother, who hears them no more.

They tell then of wanderers hopelessly lost,
As beaten and buffeted, baffled and tost,
Grown voiceless from shouting, still fighting for breath,
They yield them at last to the cold arms of death.

From red-burning cities the voice of despair
Like smoke surges up through flame-painted air,
As fierce, hungry fire, by cruel winds fanned,
Sweeps thousands of homes from the face of the land.

Then of storm-beaten forests, where, through the wild
	night,
Mad horses and master, soul-straining in flight,
By hunger-pinched wolves, with their ravenous cry,
Pursued, and they know if o'ertaken they die.

They shriek like lost spirits, for crime doomed to roam
The wide wintry world without shelter, alone;
Bereft of all hope, still with agonized cries
Lament their set past, which may nevermore rise.

But cruelest, bitterest, direst of all,
The sigh of wan women who ventured their all
Upon a man's promise—a mere empty word
Which scarce with a ripple his memory stirred.

All gilded and smiling he walks in the light,
While crushed and heart-weary she hides in the night,
Till seeing no hope and no rest save the grave,
Her breath and her babe's bubble up through the wave.

The winds now rejoice that I heard them aright,
And their shrill, eerie laughter e'en terrifies night;
They clutch at my window with skeleton hands,
Then shrieking speed far o'er the desolate lands.

Oh, wild, wailing winds! I cannot cry, Peace!
'Till our wo-burdened earth has some hope of release.
Oh, desolate winds! still your sad story tell,
Though it strike on the heart like a funeral bell.

