		RANDOLPH.

	There are a great many topics of conver-
sation which it might be wise for women
to discuss in this day and age of the world
—at home by the fireside, at table, in their
intimate association with friends, in the
circle known as "society," or among even a
promiscuous assembly of people.
	We need more thorough cultivation in

[Column 2]

the art of conversation, and more careful
consideration of how we talk and what we
talk of. It is my opinion that great good
could be effected by simple conversation if
we were as earnest and thoughtful as we
might be, whenever an opportunity pre-
sented itself for doing good, or making an
impression in the right direction. We are
too frivolous and careless, and let the op-
portunities for sowing good seed pass by,
and sow only tares into good ground where
the best and choicest plants might grow, if
a little good seed were sown. We are not
all organized alike—some are much harder
to convince than others of truths which, to
the susceptible heart, are clear as noonday
without reasoning or demonstration. But
to those who have had much experience in
the vicissitudes of life we would say, bring
forth from the storehouse of your mind the
rich treasures gained in searching for the
"pearl of great price;" many are the gems
that unite to make the crown, and these
culled with hard labor, and polished with
ingenuity and skill, have doubtless cost the
possessor many weary days and sleepless
nights. It is true that all must pursue simi-
lar channels, must gain a life experience;
it is necessary each one should learn for
herself, yet illustrations of examples are
always in order to fix more firmly in the
mind the great truths enunciated.
	It is needless to say our lives have been
too dark and thorny, and now that we have
emerged from the tangled copse and shad-
ows that environed us, we will forever ban-
ish the subject; oh, no.
		Some truths are not by reason to be tried
		But we have sure experience for our guide.
	Then let us give to others similarly situ-
ated as far as possible the benefit of that
experience. In these perilous places did
we not have to lean entirely upon the Lord,
and plead with Him for grade and strength
to pass through the narrow way and avoid
the snares and besetments? And if we
have escaped with only a few bruises, and
sore with the struggle for victory from
some terrible trial, let us rejoice and stimu-
late others with that heroism that will in-
spire them with faith to endure the fiery
ordeals that refine and purify the human
soul.
	There is a great work to be done, and it
is high time we set about it; and it is not
sufficient that we attend our meetings and
try to cultivate ourselves there, but the
work must be constant. The conversation
of the home and in the casual meeting of
friends should be of a quality calculated to
enlighten and mutually benefit each other.
Even a few earnest women can accomplish
much in this direction, if their heart is in
the matter. Is it not absurd to see women
endowed with intelligence and gifted with
wisdom and judgment wasting precious
time in saying pretty things merely to be
pleasing, when there is so much to be said 
on important subjects that require discus-
sion?
	There are many sermons preached out-
side the pulpit, and great truths may be
explained and lofty sentiments expressed in
such a genuine and effective manner as to 
convince almost against one’s will. Fire-
side preaching, where the freest expression

[Column 3]

can be given to the best and purest thoughts,
is often really one of the greatest levers in
accomplishing an object. Something ought
to be done to correct the evils in conversa-
tion (if it deserves the name). Effervescent
talk and froth is prevalent, which, if sim-
mered down, would not contain one real
idea on any subject whatever. There is so
much to be learned that will make our lives
longer, better and more useful, that tends
directly towards human progress, that it is
a great pity women could not become con-
verted to the idea of intelligent conversa-
tion. Not only for the great good of all
should this mode of conversation be en-
couraged, but individually; every woman
improves herself and strengthens her own
powers of mind and thought by giving ex-
pression to her very own ideal on any sub-
ject worthy of thoughtfulness. It is by
thus developing one’s ideas that they are
able to do the highest good in the noblest
manner, that of ministering in the homes
of the lowly, to whom they owe duties of a
sacred character. We have heard the re-
mark, "anything but a woman with a mis-
sion;" but is it not woman’s work to instill
into the minds of children in their earliest
years those principles which will teach
them a reverence for goodness and truth?
Is it not woman’s mission to minister kind-
ness, to bless and console? And who, if
not women through the children, are to lay
broad and deep the very foundations which
will ultimately bring about peace on earth.
A great author (a man, too), speaking of
woman, has said; "The manners of men,
the hearts of men, the lives of men are in
her hands." Then what manner of women
ought we to be, who have such heavy re-
sponsibilities to carry? Diligent, faithful,
helpful, gentle, capable of the loftiest and
most sublime self-control, and full of that
sweet charity which adorns all other graces
with a divine radiance.
