				M. E. RICHARDS, Sec'y

	At a Quarterly Conference of the Sevier
Stake of Zion, held last June, we were fa-
vored with a visit from Sisters E. R. Snow
and M. I. Horne, who organized the R. S.
into a Stake organization, with Elizabeth
Bean, President, Jane Spencer and Thirza
Thurbur, Counselors, and Catherine A.
Hunt, Secretary. We have on hand at
date, cash, $12.70; property, $920.80 wheat,
1,097 bushels.
	Most of the societies are in a flourishing
condition, and feel anxious to do all in their
power to forward the interests of Zion. We
have had one Quarterly Conference since.
in which the R. S. were well represented,
and many good instructions given. Our
next Conference is appointed for the 22d
and 23d of January next. With many good
wishes I remain your sister,
		CATHERINE A. HUNT, Secretary.

[Column 3]
	The Quarterly Conference of the various
branches of Relief Societies of Weber Stake
of Zion, convened in the Ogden Tabernacle,
Thursday Dec. 18, 1879. Pres. Jane S.
Richards and Coun. Hattie C. Brown presid-
ing. On the stand were several Bishops
and some of the local authorities of the
Stake also Sisters E. R. Snow and E. B.
Wells of Salt Lake City. After the opening
exercises of singing and prayer, Mrs. E. B.
Wells was elected Secretary pro tem. Coun.
H. C. Brown then read the minutes of the
last Conference, which were accepted. The
Secretary read the quarterly reports from
the various wards of Ogden City and the
different settlements throughout the county.
Remarks were then made by Sister E. R.
Snow in regard to a Treasurer's report for
the Stake; said perhaps she had had noth-
ing confided to her care, therefore she could
make no report.
	Mrs. Brown followed in a short address,
instructive in its nature. Mrs. Wells talked
a little about the training of children and
the great opportunities now afforded women
for cultivation and educarional advance-
ment. Elder D. M. Stuart made some very
interesting and generous remarks upon wo-
man and her work. Bishop Shirtliff, of
Plain City, spoke hopefully and earnestly
upon the subject of woman's influence and
aid in helping to establish righteousness
and promoting all home interests; stated
he had considered very thoughtfully dur-
ing the Conference the nature and object of
these organizations among the women and
children, and the great good to be derived
therefrom. Coun. Middleton .spoke upon
the necessity of harmony in all our rela-
tions; said, "Sisters, your mission is a great
one, if we teach our children true and pure
principles, they will rise up and call us
blessed. We must become so refined that
the angels may come among us."
	Afternoon session: The afternoon was
devoted to the Conference of the Y. L. M.
I. Association and the Primary Associations.
Mrs. Sarah Herrick, President of the Stake
organization, was necessarily absent, and
Mrs. Jane S. Richards presided. Rose Can-
field, Secretary, read the reports from the
Young Ladies' Associations of the Stake,
and some Primary Association reports were
also read, which were all very interesting
and showed that great exertions were being
made for literary and spiritual improve-
ment, several manuscript papers being edit-
ed in the different associations, and consid-
erable being done towards establishing li-
braries. The amount of home reading, as
per reports was indeed wonderful; more
than has ever yet been reported in any other
Stake. It consisted of reading from the
Bible, Book of Mormon, Doctrine and Cove-
nants, E. R. Snow's Poems, Women of Mor-
mondom, WOMAN'S EXPONENT and Juve-
nile Instructor. The statistics must be very
satisfactory to those who are interested in
the spiritual educational growth of the
youth of this people.
	Sister E. R. Snow gave a very earnest
and eloquent address on important matters
connected with the interests of the organ-
izations and referred to Pres. Joseph
Smith's having said the Relief Society was
organized after the pattern of the Church;
said it had always existed when the Church
was fully organized, and if the sisters would
carry out his couusel it would become the
most glorious society on the earth. She
spoke of the great necessity of home-mis-
sionary labor, of promoting home indus-
tries, and exhorted the sisters to diligence
in all things.
	Mrs. E. B. Wells spoke upon the interests
of education, the necessity of careful read-


ing, the promotion of home literature, the
need of woman’s understanding for herself
those things which pertain to her welfare
and happiness. Pres. Jane S. Richards
made some excellent remarks on duties,
blessings and labors, and the Conference
was adjourned for three months, with the
urgent request that secretaries send in their
reports properly filled out upon the blanks
printed expressly for that purpose at least a
week before the convening of the Confer-
ence.
		E. B. WELLS, Secretary pro tem.

	Minutes of Quarterly Conference of Y.
L. M. I. Associations of Bear Lake Stake,
held jointly with the Relief Societies in
Paris, Oct. 19, 1879. Pres. Nancy Pugmire
presiding. Singing and prayer. Minutes
of previous Conference read and approved.
Pres. Pugmire then called for verbal re-
ports from the associations six being repre-
sented.
	The spirit of union and confidence being
manifested, which is in reality the best
evidence of advancement and improve-
ment in any grand enterprise. The young
ladies all seem to realize the importance of
gleaning and storing away grain, and have
availed themselves of every opportunity to
this end. We have had considerable sick-
ness in Bear Lake Stake, which has retard-
ed our progress to some extent. Our meet-
ings will now be resumed for the winter
season, and as our motto is upward and on-
ward, we expect to report favorably by
Spring.
	Pres. Pugmire then gave a few general
instructions, exhorted the young ladies to
continue in doing good, and elucidated with
great force that this was the time and place
to improve and clothe our minds, in order
to fit and qualify ourselves for fnture use-
fulness. 
	Bishops Horne, Price and Pugmire, and
Bro. Richard Horne, gave us some good in-
structions; felt to sustain us in our noble
efforts, and if we did not slacken in our
diligence the Lord would certainly bless us.
Singing. Benediction.
				L. M. HART, Sec’y.


