	A VOICE FROM THE TYNE.

	Being called from my home in Zion upon
special business in the northern part of Her
Majesty's domain, and my stay here neces-
sarily protracted, but pleasant, and I hope
profitable, not only to myself but also to
many others of both sexes that the nature
of my mission to these parts gives me ac-
cess to; I occasionally receive copies of the
publications of Utah, such as the "Deseret
News," "Salt Lake Herald" and "Juvenile
Instructor," and some friend (?) sent me a
copy of a nameless sheet, embellished with
wood cuts, which excites our pity, and fans
our zeal for the cause of Zion; and now
some kind friend has sent me a copy of the
WOMAN'S EXPONENT of Nov. 1, 1879, for
which I thank them very much.
	I would like in my humble way to speak
to my sisters in Zion on behalf of my sis-
ters in England, and remind them of the
hundreds of anxious hearts and ears that
are waiting to hear a word from the moun-
tains, in response to promises made many
years since, when they parted so full of
faith and hope; and many of them with
the assistance of those who were left be-
hind. Could many of my sisters in Zion
realize the condition of their sisters in Eng-
land, they would at least not refuse to write
them a kind word of encouragement to
cheer the gloomy hearth of what was once
the happy home of expectation. Some few
do write, in great haste, as they are so busy
generally in making means; many send a
photo. of their improved (?) selves, or of
the dear boys and girls they have been
blessed with in Zion.
	Now, this is all well enough, and in some
degree a blessing to the recipients; but the
effect produced is often the reverse of that
anticipated by the sender. And if they
could see those photographs produced, as
they invariably are, when one from Zion
calls, as we are all supposed to know every-
body who ever did emigrate to Utah—per-

[Column 2]

haps it is that of a son, or daughter, an un-
cle, or an aunt, or some dear friend, around
whose name still clings the happy memory
of the good times of the past; you are told
of their liberality, their kindness, their
solemn promises, till the voice chokes, and
the tear-dimmed eyes stare into your own,
in search of a cause for the change that
must have come over those in whom they
so implicitly confided. Poor creatures! we
comfort them as best we can, for we dare
not tell them that in many instances their
former friends have been unable to bear
humbly and honestly the blessings that
have fallen upon them. It is better not to
make promises at all than to neglect to fu-
fill them; this might be remembered by
all.
	Do our sisters in Utah remember the con-
dition of the honest poor woman in this
part of England? The pitman's wife is a
drudge; the agriculturist's a slave. Do
they know that women still work in brick-
yards, bind the wheat, pitch and stack the
hay, drive farm-carts, fill the carts and
spread the manure on the land, and that in
a wet, cold climate? Yet there are many
of them, the kind souls, who receive and
minister to the wants of our husbands,
brothers and sons, who have been sent forth
to proclaim the Gospel of the Son of God.
And they have claims which cannot safely
be ignored by those who I feel only need
reminding to produce a response that shall
gladden the hearts, in the coming season,
of many of the Lord's honest poor. Sister!
Brother! reach back the hand of help, and
claim the blessings of duty done.
	Oh, if I could gather all the dear girls
and boys of Zion around me to have a talk
—and we who are grandparents have a right
to talk; we who have "silver hairs among
the gold" have passed through the experi-
ence that our children are passing through.
We have felt the timid flutter of first love,
and hoped and sighed, and wondered if it
was reciprocated; and when assured, we
have piqued, and teased, and pouted, and
cried, and said many things which we did
not really mean. We have been woo'd and
wedded, and have seen God's choicest gifts
to mothers gather at our knee; and, alas!
we have also seen the loveliest of those
gifts plucked from us, leaving their toys
and their prattle, with the vacant chair in
our homes and the void in our souls never
to be filled, till the day of the restoration in
the Lord—near at hand.
	And as we love them and desire their
happiness, we would caution them against
the vanity and pride which is creeping into
Zion, aping the world in its extravagance
of dress and fashion, and the questionable
embellishments of so called "refined socie-
ty." Refined Society, indeed! What do I
see before me here? I dare not lift the veil
in your pages. "Refined society" is pro-
ducing an effete race of drones of both
sexes, whose tinseled glamour dazzles the
light of truth, vitiates the nation's honor,
and elbows virtue into the gutter; produc-
ing the chaos that now reigns in the moral
world of Europe and America. I know
that the naked truth is unpalatable to many,
and fashionable prudery blushes at her ap-
proach; but the chastened mind receives
and adopts it as her own.
	And while, in common with all our sex,
we love good clothing, and would encourage
the acquisition of every grace, and all learn-
ing that will tend to fit our youth for the
great future before them, to be gained only
by patient labor, in and for the kingdom of
God, I would teach them that God has never
yet selected a guide for His people from
"refined society." I would teach them to

[Column 3]

dig deeper than the surface of that which
"doth appear," to find the foundation of
that hope and confidence which will enable
them to pass unscathed the trying ordeals
the future will develop; for trials for Zion
are impending, and all who would pass as 
gold must be prepared for the refining pro-
cess.
	And, if I could speak to all our dear girls
at once, I would suggest that they prevailed
upon the good young men to forego the
privilege of just one dance this winter, and
devote the cost to the emancipation from
Babylon of some good young sisters, whose
prayers and gratitude would leave a sun-
beam in the memory of "our girls." I
have become acquainted with several who
are just budding into womanhood, whose
modest piety would adorn Zion, who in a
few years will naturally drift into marriage,
at best, and thus become fettered to a man
who knows not the way of the Lord. Sis-
ters, think of the emigration of some, not
as a donation, but as a duty to anxious ones
who have been born in the Church.
	This is a good place to see Zion from and
appreciate her privileges. How we enjoy a
"letter from home,', and watch the news
from every source. Sometimes we meet
with expressions that perplex us a little,
such as the select gathering of "Utah's
best society." Ambiguous sentiments!
There is something definite in "Utah's best
crop"—the idea is electric with joy that
would melt a savage with the smiles of
love.
	For "best society" we have our own
ideal, and we gather together the chosen
ones, who stood by when the martyrs fell,
with those who have compassed sea and
land in the service of the Lord, who have
never deserted a post till relieved by the
coming watch, and whose whitened locks
still shimmer with the light of heaven.
We see the hardy band of pioneers who
made the trails, and are still extending the
borders of Zion; we see the Twelve Apos-tles, and the vacant chair for our BROTHER
in BONDS; and interspersed as ministering
angels are the figures of those noble and
consistent women who have ever been
found in the front of the battle, with their
balm and lint to staunch the wound and
bless and encourage the weary. And we
wish for that companion picture one that to
the coming generations shall "point the
moral and adorn a tale." The one to be ap-
proached with uncovered reverence, inspir-
ing a determined fidelity to God and the
divine trust committed to our care; the
other to incite a loving confidence in the
hope of Israel.
	Mothers! Fathers! Let us teach our
children to emulate the virtues of the good
and the great, NOW, and not wait to pile
posthumous honors upon those whose coun-
sels we neglected while living.
	I see there is a new publication in Zion
since I left, i. e., the "Contributor." I
hope, and no doubt it will be, decided in
its tone, and thoroughly Mormon; we need
real Mormon literature, inspirational pens.
	I must close, or the cynics will say it's a
woman's failing. It is very foggy and cold
here; one does not venture out without a
respirator and muff. To the aged and the
youth, and the chubby-faced lispers of their
prowess at the Christmas pudding, I wish
a "Happy New Year," and remain
	Yours faithfully,
