R. S. REPORTS.

	The Davis Stake Conference of the R. S.
was held at Kaysville, Oct. 16th, 1879.
Present from Salt Lake, Sisters Zina D.
Young and Presendia Kimball. Bishop
Hess of Farmington, Bishop Cook of South
Weber, John Barnes, Counselor to Bishop
Barton, of Kaysville. The Presidency of
the Stake R. S. and others of the brethern
and sisters. Prest. Sarah I. Holmes pres-
iding. After the reading of the minutes
and reports by the Secretary, the presidents
of the Relief Societies verbally reported
their respective districts. Each being re-
presented as being in as good condition as
usual. A few sisters however having all to
do that is done in each society. The pres-
idents seemed full of energy and perseve-
rence.

[Column 2]
	Pres. Rogers of the P. A. of Farmington,
gave quite a lengthy and interesting report
of that organization. Had been organized
more than a year and had made quite an
improvement. They had gleaned a little
wheat, and had raised a few white beans,
President Blood, of the P. A. of the first
and President McFearson of the second
district of Kaysville, each reported her
society as having been organized only one
month, consequently, but little had been
done. Pres. Custin of the P. A. of East
Bountiful, was not present to report.
	Pres. Lorinda Robinson represented the
Stake Silk Association. Only 58 lbs. of
Cocoons, and 10 and one fourth oz. of eggs
were reported which were considered about
one half of what had been raised this sea-
son in Davis Co.
	Pres. Nancy A. Clark reported the Y. L.
A. of the Stake steadily improving. Said
she felt proud of them. She spoke on the
lack of confidence, energy and earnestness
of many otherwise good sisters.
	Bishop Hess thought too much time was
devoted to temporal duties. He had 45,
years experience in this Church, and never
felt a greater need of reformation than at
present, believed that if the few who are
energetic were less so, the majority would
be more soundly asleep than they now are.
	At the opening of the afternoon session,
Pres. Holmes explained the method of in-
corporation which the Silk Association ex-
pected to adopt in the near future. Sister
Clark then read the agreement gotten up
free of charge by Bro. Jos. Barton, Co.
Clerk. It was stated that the shares should
be five dollars each, 25 per cent to be paid
at first.
	Sister Presendia Kimball then made some
very excellent remarks upon various sub-
jects suited to the occasion; all of which
were as instructive as they were interest-
ing, and will long be remembered by her
hearers.
	"Aunt Zina" followed in her gentle
motherly way endorsing the sentiment
which had been uttered, and made other
equally good and encouraging remarks.
Also related some very interesting incidents
which had come under her notice.
	Bishop Cook of South Weber made some
timely remarks upon several subjects
worthy of mention, but I fear I am taking
up too much space, so will not enter into
details further.
	We had a time of rejoicing and a feast
long to be remembered.
	Wishing for the continued success of the
EXPONENT.
