VOL. 18.   SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, MARCH 15, 1890.   NO. 20.


CONTENTS.
     Good Counsel,—M. Daniels.  Hephzibah.
Three Score and Ten,—A. M. Tanner. Sincerity,
—M. E. K.  A. Perfect Home,—H. H. Utah W.
S. A.  My Subject is Suffrage,—Dr. E. S. Barney.
R. S. Report—Malad.  Schools of Music. Notes
and News.
	Editorial:—From Kirtland to Salt Lake City.
L. D. S. Womens' Meetings.  Notes.  Woman
Suffrage Petition.  Utah Delegates.  Rambling
Thoughts,—Z. D. H. Young. Education,—X.
The World's Civilization and Politics,—Mary
Ann M. Pratt.
	Poetry:—Beautiful Isle of God,—Flora S. Hill.
Lines In Memory of Sister M. J. Tanner,—
Deborah Billings.  Joseph Pollard,—Hope. The
Better Time to Come,—John W. Hutchinson.


FOR THE EXPONENT:
		BEAUTIFUL ISLE OF GOD.
	
	The poor man plods on his humble way,
		As the rich man drives along,
	And he muses on fortune's odd display,
		And the depth of the poor man's wrong,
	And he asks, why this bounteous world so wide,
		Has made him a common clod,
	There is no false picture of want or pride,
		In the beautiful isle of God.

	So old and so cunningly wrought its scheme,
		Is the error of royal birth,
	That the world accepts the imperial dream,
		As an edict of venerable worth.
	Yet every one knows that a man is a man
		Be he monarch of crown or sod,
	Peasant and prince on a level will stand
		In the beautiful isle of God.

	Beguiled by vicissitudes dark embrace,
		The maiden once fair as snow--
	Both nature and man seem to interlace,
		To weave the unanswered woe,
	Injustice follows the erring mind,
		Till refined by the mournful sod,
	The clemency earth denies we will find,
		In the beautiful isle of God.

	With impartial gems we will all be crowned,
		When we get to that equal shore,
	Intelligence there will not be bound,
		By the frauds of traditional lore;
	The mines of truth unrevealed will unroll,
		By the world's gross step untrod,
	No ignorant myths will enslave the soul,
		In the beautiful isle of God.

	Some day, having learned, we will cease to ask,
		Why our roses scatter and fade,
	Why joy is dethroned by somber task,
		Leaving us 'lone and afraid;
	Why existence flows in a sorrowful tide,
		To the sepulcher's dread abode,
	'Tis writ on the dark cloud's silver side,
		In the beautiful isle of God.
									FLORA S. HILL.
Salt Lake City, March 3, '90.


[Column 1]
 		   GOOD COUNSEL.
	To the parents and my dear young brethren
and sisters of the Primary. Being requested
by President Anna K. Smoot to write an
expression of some of my thoughts and feel-
ings in regard to my labors in this great work
in which we are engaged, I cheerfully respond,
trusting that I may have the spirit of God to
dictate what few words I may say. I know
[Column 2]
and feel there is a great responsibility resting
upon me in magnifying this office and calling.
But as it has been placed upon me by those
having authority it gives me confidence that if I
strive to do my duty trusting in the Lord for
guidance He will bless my humble efforts to im-
press the minds of the children with the princi-
ples of truth, and that I may be able to do so
is my greatest desire, and that it may be a
labor of love as well as duty, ever hoping
that I may sow some good seed in their hearts
that eventually may spring up and bear good
fruit in years to come. There is one thing
I desire to mention which I think is of great
importance, it is the feeling of indifference
manifested by some of the parents in not
sustaining these organizations; when they have
been instituted for the benefit it would be to
their children if they attended these associa-
tions as they should; some mothers may think
and say they cannot see any good resulting
from these meetings, I most earnestly testify
that there is. It may be small like "little
drops of water and little grains of sand" that
in time make the mighty ocean and the
pleasent land. And if my testimony
is not enough I might add that of many
of our faithful sisters that have labored long
and earnestly in striving to teach the children
of the Latter-day Saints. Now we desire that
the parents be co-workers with us and manifest
an interest that when calls are made upon
them fron time to time they may be prepared
to help carry out our programme. They are
the ones that are benefited the most. How
thankful I would be to-day if I had had these
privileges that our youth enjoy at the present
time of gaining such an experience. If they
will improve these many opportunities they
have in attending Primary, SundaySchool etc.
	I sometimes ask myself the question are
the parents taking as much pains to save their
own children by teaching them the principles
of the Gospel, as the Elders abroad are in con-
verting the unbelievers among the Gentiles.
Is it not possible right here in what we term
Zion (which should be the pure in heart) we
give too little time to teaching our children
the spiritual things, and allow ourselves and
them to become engrossed too much  in the
temporal affairs of every day life. If so, it is
time we aroused from our lethargy and try to
more fully realize the great responsibility that
rests upon us as parents and teachers. We
can read in the 68 section of the Doctrine and
Covenants that the Lord makes it a duty in-
cumbent upon parents to teach their children
the doctrine of repentance, faith in Christ the
son of the living God, baptism and the laying
on of hands for the gift of the Holy Ghost
when eight years old; and if they do not the
sins will be on the heads of the parents.
	Now is the time to form their character while
their minds are easily molded like clay in the
hands of the potter. And the impressions that
are made upon their tender minds now become
indelible if continued till they are firmly fixed
so that nothing will efface them. We want to
instil faith in their hearts, faith in the ordinances
of the Gospel that this principle may grow and
increase till it becomes a mighty power in our
midst.
	It being the first principle of religion, it
should be first in our teachings to have faith in
God and believe that He is the Father of our
spirits, and is ever present with us knows our
thoughts, nothing is kept hid from His All see-
[Column 3]
ing eye; and if we will seek Him in faith and
ask aright He will answer our prayers. Our
children are a precious heritage from our
Heavenly Father, they are given to us pure
and He will hold us responsible for the way
we treat this sacred trust. They are given us
to train for a higher existence, and if we neg-
lect our duty in this respect what shall we reap
but sorrow in our declining years. "As we
sow so shall we reap." Truer words are not
to be found in Holy writ let us teach the
children to be virtuous, honest, full of integrety
to the truth, and to shun the very appearance of
evil that they may grow up in the fear of the
Lord be faithful to their religion, and be able
to stand up boldly and defend its principles
in the face of all the world. I believe they
are those noble spirits that have been held in
reserve to come forth in this day for a wise and
special purpose, that they might have this
opportunity to prepare themselves for the com-
ing of our Lord and Savior. How necessary
it is that they should be taught and be made
to understand every principle that has been
revealed in this our day, through the revela-
tion of God to Joseph Smith, and we find in
those revelations that we are to seek for knowl-
edge from the best books, seek learning by
study and by faith, for we cannot be saved
in ignorance, and what ever principle of in-
telligence we attain to in this life will remain
with us in the morning of the resurrection;
what an incentive this should be for us to be
diligent in learning all that we can, that we
may reap good for our reward and thereby
lay up for ourselves treasures in Heaven where
neither moth, or rust doth corrupt. May this
be your happy lot is the humble and sincere
prayer of your Sister in the cause of truth.
						M. Daniels,
Pres. Primary Ass'n. First Ward Provo.


HEPHZIBAH.
				XVII.

	'Tis early morn and thro' the air there floats,
		Odors of pine woods rich and rare perfume;
	The birds are pouring forth their sweetest notes
		And fresh young buds are bursting into bloom.

	After Hepsie’s brief conversation with the
trustee, she thought it necessary in view of her
engagement to teach, to put on a more serious
air, and deport herself in a womanlyfashion;
just turned fifteen, still in short dresses, and
always among the rocks and brooks and orchards,
shadowy lanes and singing birds were her
chief attractions, but she took in the situation
and resolved to put off childish ways, and be-
gin a new page in her history. She examined
her slender wardrobe and reported to her
mother concerning her wearing apparel.
	"I have two or three French cambrics and
muslins that will be light and dainty for
summer wear, if the skirts can be lengthened
a trifle, and with new ribbons, laces and gloves
I can do very well for a few weeks," suggested
Hepsie, "and I shall have my own money soon
you know and can buy what I like."
	"That is all right my little daughter, but I've
been thinking over a much more serious
matter, and it puzzles me somewhat I must
confess."
	"What is it mother, can I help you is it
about going to Nauvoo because I am in no
hurry, I should like to try teaching nearer
home at first."


[column 1]
	"It is about the certificate from the minister,
you understand that although we are such
near neighbors and friends, he has never spoken
to me since the day you were baptized, he
does not consider Mormons upright and moral
you know."
	“And that is more than a year now, and
living next house but one; well he must give
me the certificate there is no reason why he
should not and if he refuses I’ll ask the Squire
his word is as good."
	“He hates Mormons just as much as the
minister does and his wife is far more bitter
than dear Mrs. M. in fact I do believe she
would have been a believer in our doctrines
but for his forbidding her to attend the meet-
ings;" said Mrs. H. in reply.
	There is no time to lose" said Hepsie I'll
go this very day, there is nothing like trying
I do not believe in failure." Mrs. H. knew
better than Hepsie how bitter the prejudice
was in the little village for she had felt it
more keenly, since the larger number of con-
verts, had loft for Nauvoo, and one obstacle
after another had come in her way to prevent
her selling out and going where she could be
among the saints and have congenial society.
	Hepsie carried out her intention; she hastened
immediately to the minister's cottage, and
Mrs. M. who was in the front yard among the
lilacs welcomed her most tenderly. "So glad
to see you Hepsie, you are back from school,
have you finished?" Before Hepsie could
answer she asked a half a dozen more questions
and invited her in, but Hepsie declined saying
she had so much to do, and had come over on
purpose to see the minister.  "Tell me first
said Mrs. M. eagerly how is your mother, for
I have the most profound respect for her and
admiration of her moral courage in maintaining
her position in the faith for which she has
made such sacrifices."
	Hepsie realized the truth of these words and
knew they came from the heart, with tears in
her eyes and thanking Mrs. M. for her sympathy
she followed the good lady to her husband's
study and was ushered into the august presence
of the Reverend man. "Miss Hathaway, Hepsie"
he said as he rose from his table to meet the
girl pale and trembling, "have you come back
repentant to ask advice?"
	"O, no, I have come on quite a different
matter, it is to ask for a certificate from you
of moral character, I am engaged to teach at
Beechwoods and shall need one."
	The minister was like one bewildered, "teach,"
said he, "you are only a child yourself and
much in need of being taught, you astonish
me, a young girl in short dresses and a Mormon
asking for a certificate to teach, you will not
be allowed to promulgate any of your Mormon,
doctrines in a New England school." "O, as
to that I know so little myself that would be 
quite impossible," replied Hepsie.
	It is the more fortunate for you, that you
know so little but I must consult with 'Squire
W. about the certificate I'm not sure it would be
the proper thing to do. I was in hopes you
would come home after a year's absence among
Christian people with a change of heart and
convert your mother from the errors into
which she has fallen and become a member of
the Church in which you might have such a
great and powerful influence, that needs the
help and support of just such refined and
educated young women." "All this time
poor Hepsie was trembling and shivering, not
speaking out as she would have done had
she not wanted the certificate. Her heart
was bursting with indignation, yet she must
not be in the least seemingly disrespectful,
lest she should lose the little item on paper
that was to be so much to her. Finally after
more pressing interrogatories, and assurances
from Mrs. M. that she would get the certificate
the next day, she began to be more self-
[column 2]
possessed, and turned to leave the study, when
the minister broke out anew in the most ex-
cited way, "how is it that your people have
taken away more than half of my congrega-
tion? Your mother is at the bottom of all
this, she is the strong pillar of Mormonism in
this place, and you could influence her per-
haps to give up this nonsense about going to
Nauvoo, and the village might become more
flourishing, as it was before those ranting
Mormon Elders came here in November two
years ago."
	Hepsie appreciated fully the embarrassment
of the situation, she could not retaliate, not
even defend her own mother; she saw that
Mrs. M. understood her difficulty and she
knew her to be such a strong minded thorughly
good woman, that it was some relief to think
she would be stoutly defended if she could
once getaway. She tried to say "good morn-
ing" in the midst of the minister's harangue,
but it was quite impossible.
	Mrs. M. put a stop to the scene at last by
saying, "Husband you can scarcely be aware
how you are wounding the feelings of this
dear child; she is not answerable for any of
the mistakes made by the Mormons and has
had nothing to do with their leaving to go
to Nauvoo. Its all folly to talk in that way, 
she came for a certificate and ought to have
it at once."
	By this time Hepsie was in tears, one great
sob after another had welled up until she could
no longer control her emotions.  Mrs. M. put
her arms around her tenderly and said "poor
child, never mind come with me, you shall
have the certificate now," and they left the
study together. Once out of the minister's
presence Hepsie ceased sobbing and Mrs. M.
leaving her alone returned to the study; five
minutes after she came in with the little slip
of white paper on which a few words were
written and signed by Edward Morton D. D.,
Mrs. M. handed the certificate to her and said
while entwining her in her arms, "you are a
brave girl and deserve success, you know how
to control yourself and that is a great thing
in a teacher; I shall be proud to hear you have
done well and I am sure you will."  Then
followed the usual good byes and "remember
me to your dear mother," and Hepsie flew
down the yard and out into the great wide
road. She could not go home until she re-
covered her composure, her mother must not
know what had transpired.  The fresh morn-
ing air soon cooled her heated brow and when
she came in to her mother's room shortly after,
no one would have guessed the struggle she had
gone through.  She held up the paper and
Mrs. H. inquired, "How did the minister re-
ceive you and how is his wife and family?
Did he demur at all because you were a Mor-
mon?"
	"Not exactly" replied the girl "he talked
about seeing the 'Squire first but Mrs. M. in
sisted on my not having to wait."
	"Very kind of her," replied the mother
"she is much superior to him in nobility of
character and in personal attainments; they
could never live on the salary he receives if
she were not always economizing and helping
in various ways."
	"I'm sorry for her and for all minister's
wives that I've ever seen, the husband gets
the honor and the wife contrives to manage
the house and does half the brain work; the
best half too; I hope if I ever marry it will
not be a minister," Hepsie retorted sharply.
	"I hope you'll marry a Mormon Elder and
devote your life and talents to the Latter-day
work," said Mrs, H. enthusiastically.
	"Wait until we go to Nauvoo mother, I
shall not marry until I'm twenty-one or more;
my guardian would not allow it you know, and
he'll stop my going to Nauvoo if he can; I
[column 3]
have never even hinted such a thing to him,
have you mother?"
	"No Hepsie, but I shall not brook any in-
ference in that matter."
	Here the conversation ended either mother
or daughter little realizing what lay before
them in the near future. Preparations were
hurriedly made for Hepsie and on Monday
morning, the open carriage came to convey her
to Beechwoods.
	Her heart was in a great flutter, but her
mother knew it not, outwardly she was cool
and dignified—and away she went to pass the
trying ordeal of a specific examination. She
had no idea what questions would be asked nor
who would be present. The little wagon drew
up in front of an old farm house, she recalled
in a moment as the residence of the trustee, the
front door opened and in a moment more she
was ushered into an old-fashioned square
parlor, where sat in state awaiting her Mr.
Merriam himself.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


THREE SCORE AND TEN.

EDITOR WOMAN'S EXPONENT:
	According to previous arrangement a goodly
number of brethren and sisters met at the R.
S. Hall at 1 o'clock p.m., Feb. 25th, under
the auspices of the First Ward Relief Society,
for the purpose of surprising and showing
their esteem for their beloved President—
Sister R. W. Tyler, being the seventieth anni-
versary of her birth. President Jane Bickley
of the Second Ward went with her buggy to
Sister Tyler's home and desired to accompany
her to visit the sick, which request was cheer-
fully complied with. After visiting one sick
lady, they drove to the Hall where Sister
Tyler's family and friends awaited them. The
surprise of this aged mother was plainly de-
picted on her countenance, and she was quite
overcome with emotion at sight of so many
friends and associates; Brother J. Thompson
being requested to preside, the meeting was
called to order and her (Sister Tyler's) favorite
hymn was announced, "Up Awake ye De-
fenders of Zion." 	Prayer by Patriarch
Jonathan Crosby, singing "O God our Help."
Sister E. W. Hawkins in a neat, appropriate
speech, presented Sister Tyler with a hand-
some gift, a dress pattern of fine black cash-
mere as a token of esteem from her sisters and
co laborers. Individuals also presented her
with nice tokens. Sister Tyler responded in
brief, pathetic remarks—thanking all present
for their kindness and hoped to continue to
live in their esteem.
	The following committee viz:—Sisters H.
Baker, E. Jolly, R. Briggs, H. M. Edwards
and H. Stoney arranged an excellent pro-
gramme, consisting of speeches, songs, recita-
tions, etc., which was next in order. The
speakers briefly referred to Sister Tyler's asso-
ciation with the Church for fifty-eight years,
and her good labors in the Relief Society for
a score of years—also having been a member
of the first organization in Nauvoo. All
united in wishing her many happy returns of
the day. After these exercises a sumptuous
repast was indulged in by all present. Sister
Tyler was the recipient of a beautiful cake
made by Sister E. W. Hawkins—presented on
a nice glass cake stand—a gift from Sister J.
Bickley—also a cake with the year, name, and
age in candy letters (made by her daughter).
Both cakes were nicely frosted and adorned
with candy, mottoes, etc.
	Some of the excellent repast was conveyed
to the sick. After being together several
hours and having an enjoyable time, long to
be remembered by those present—a hymn was
sung, and benediction pronounced by Patriarch
D. Tyler, and all dispersed to their homes.
					A. M. Tanner, Secretary.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


LINES IN MEMORY OF SISTER M. J.
TANNER.
WHO DEPARTED THIS LIFE JANUARY 8, 1890,
PROVO CITY.
BY MRS. DEBORAH BILLINGS.

	My dear kind friends again we've met
		To reverence woman's sphere.
	Our hearts, with grief, are stricken,
		We mourn for one not here.

	Death with his ever stealthy tread
		Has laid our sister low,
	And like the withered Autumn flowers,
		She rests beneath the snow.

	In her, we placed a noble trust,
		In doing all things well.
	She held our greatest confidence
		None could, with her, excel.

	In friendship's bond, we did unite—
		Our quorum all complete,
	But hope, like a sweet-scented vase,
		Lies shattered at our feet.

	To her kind nature did impart
		A noble gift divine,
	To wield the pen in "Woman's Right"
		And elevate the mind.

	Her virtues we unite to praise,
		Her labors all approve, 
	Her steps were led in wisdom's ways,
		In charity and love.
	
	And now, since this has been our lot,
		To mourn our President,
	Let's not despair, but try to be
		With Providence  content.

	God's Wisdom, none can comprehend,
		Nor yet 'His Purpose' tell;
	We'll kiss the rod, our love to prove,
		He doeth all things well.


JOSEPH POLLARD.

			IN MEMORIAM.

	Seventy One and in all these years
		Can no spot of rust be found,
	To mingle now with the heartfelt tears
		That moistens this Sacred Mound,

	Where earth to earth and dust to dust;
		The Casket now may rest,
	That held a spirit all might trust,
		Now with the ransomed blest.

	His Monument Our House of God,
		Shows forth his wondrous power,
	To lead his people where he trod
		From rock-base up to tower.

	Our girls will miss a father's care
		Our boys his counsel wise,
	Aye, all will miss a shepherd rare
		Whose path led to the skies.

	He shrank not from the hardest task
		When duty marked the way;
	He never wore the traitor's mask,
		A brother to betray.

	Beside the weary bed of pain,
		He stood by day and night,
	Cheering the stricken ones again
		To faith and hope and might.

	Remember still his kindly voice,
		His warnings ne'er forget,
	And yet again we may rejoice
		That here on earth we met,

	A heart so true, a soul so brave,
		The tempter's shaft to dare;
	His every thought his flock to save,
		Their dangers too, to share.

	All honor to his sterling worth,
		No trembling shook his frame;
	With those who bore the noblest part
		Write Joseph Pollard's name.
									HOPE.


THE BETTER TIME TO COME.

	(Written by John W. Hutchinson, and sung by
him at the National-American Woman Suffrage
Convention, after Mrs. Stanton's address, Wash-
ington D. C. February, 1890.)

I may not be a prophet, but methinks I feel the time
When freedom's breath shall fan the cheek of all in every
	clime.
When labor shall be virtue and religion shall be truth.
And all earth's sons and daughters shall enjoy a trusting
	youth.

I may not be a prophet, yet is not the era near,
When the church shall cease to rule men through dogma's
	creed of fear,
When human life and nature's laws in harmony entwined
Shall be the base of better lives—the Christ of all man-
	kind.

I may not be a prophet, but the glorious time's at hand,
In which the nations shall combine, in one harmonious
	band.
That day will see one God, one church, one government on
	earth,
The long-expected golden age, the newer second birth.

I may not be a prophet, but the time will surely come
When through much tribulation we'll scourge the demon
	Rum.
The monster's trembling at the door—brothers, sisters,
	now unite,
And if we strike together we'll conquer in the fight.

I may not be a prophet, but the time is almost here
When the woman with the man shall stand, and take her
	proper sphere.
Restricted and oppressed she's been, through all the ages
	past,
Thank God, the star of hope shines clear—she will be free
	at last.


[Column 1]
SINCERITY.
	Sincerity is a quality we highly prize in
the circles of friendship; and as we learn that
we are made in the image of God, we readily
believe this to be one of His attributes, for He
says, those who worship Him must worship in
spirit and in truth.
	Can any one read the history of our Lord
and Savior without a feeling of love and ad-
miration enlivening every fiber of the soul.
This I call the genuine love of God, the effects
produced by the good spirit;  this spirit en-
larges the understanding and enlightens the
mind, with it we can comprehend, many of
our Savior's teachings which look cloudy or
dark before, and really feel a spirit of en-
thusiasm for the great and good work that
Jesus came to accomplish. And as far as we
get intelligence in this work the greater is our
joy.
	There is a spirit of enthusiasm prevailing
of late which I think is quite commendable;
especially when reading in the paper of the
Idaho test case, also the bill introduced by
Senator Stewart of Vermont desiring the
Mormons not only disfranchised, but also not
permitted to make their homes on public lands,
simply because we are Mormons.  And what
is a Mormon?  One whom the Lord has given
intelligence to prepare for His second advent
to the earth, by keeping more strictly all His
commandments.  We certainly could not be
prepared without doing this.
	Shall we then cower under misrepresenta-
tion, which is as much as to say we are stupid
and ignorant, low-lived and mean, which we
know we are not.  The principles we believe
and cherish are quite the opposite.  And now
since there must be an opposite in all things
which side of the question is the right side and
the one to cleave to and sustain?  Well let an
earnest and persevering zeal for right be ours,
in all sincerity of heart, for we must pay
strict heed to the laws of Jesus Christ if we
are worthy to be called by His name, in doing

[Column 2]
this we never fail only when we carelessly
make a mistake.  I look upon these rules as I
do upon a problem of Arithmetic, if we fail
to obtain the true result we find by looking
over the work that we did not add, or multi-
ply, or subtract correctly.
	Then when we see the mistake, we soon find
all is right, for the rule is a perfect one, and all
who will make themselves perfectly acquainted
with it are benefited by its theory; but we need
to be active and sincere in all our researches
in religion as also in science, for things done
at the halves are never well done, we will
surely make a mistake and have need to look
over and correct the same.
	I think I hear it said the Liberal party
are to be our rulers now.  Is it not humiliat-
ing?  Yes indeed it is.  But it must be our
fault, or we need more humility.  We can not
be true Latter-day Saints without this quality.
The Lord has said He resists the proud but He
gives grace to the humble.  If we would please
our Father we must not lose sight of His laws,
for He is angry with none excepting those
who will not acknowledge His hand in all
things.  Can we do this, it is a nice point to
arrive at.
	It is just forty years since I embraced the
principles of this gospel, and I do surely know
that the gifts and graces which characterized
the ancient Church have never failed, when we
are what we should be ourselves.  But St.
Paul said that "We are subject to vanity as
the sparks which fly upward."  Accordingly
we need great caution and care to keep a well
balanced mind and a sincere and devoted zeal
to the cause of truth, then our Father in
heaven can give us the light and intelligence
of His holy spirit which gives every thing its
proper value and all its proper place.
	This is indeed the true riches and also the
most needful for us to profess. 
							M. E. K.


A PERFECT HOME.

	The late Helen Hunt Jackson, writing of a
perfect home said: "The most perfect home I
ever saw was a little house into the sweet in-
cense of whose fires went no costly things. A
thousand dollars served as a year's living for
father, mother and three children. But the
mother was the creator of the home; her rela-
tions with the children were the most beautiful
I have ever seen; every inmate of the house
involuntarily looked into her face for the key-
note of the day, and it always rang clear.
From the rose, or clover leaf, which in spite of
her hard housework, she always found time to
put beside our plates at breakfast, down to the
story she had in hand to read in the evening
there was no intermission of her influence.
She has always been and will always be my
ideal of a mother, wife, and homemaker. If
to her quick brain, loving heart, and exquisite
face had been added the appliance of wealth
and enlargements of wide culture, here would
have been absolutely the ideal home.  As it
was, it was the best I have ever seen.—Plain
Talk.


The Law.—Miss E. E. Wright, of Scolin,
has just been admitted to the bar and is the first
woman lawyer in her district.—Miss Rebekah
E. Roberts has been admitted to practice in
the Orphan's court of Philadelphia. She is the
second woman lawyer admitted to the bar of 
that city.—Mrs. Martha Strickland, of Detroit, 
has recently won a case in the Supreme Court
of Michigan, which has been closely contested
the last two years. As often as defeated in the
lower court she applied to the Supreme court for
relief, and has won three successive victories,
the case finally terminating in her favor.
								Ex.


Woman's Exponent

Woman’s Exponent,
EMMELINE B. WELLS,	-	Editor.
	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah. Terms:
one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months, 50 cts. No
reduction made for clubs. City papers delivered by mail,
extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space, one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal discount
to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, No. 25 E., South Temple Street, second
gate east of Deseret News Office. Business hours from 10 a.m
to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
			PUBLISHER WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
					SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.
	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
Second Class Matter.
Salt Lake City, -	-	March 15, 1890.


"FROM KIRTLAND TO SALT LAKE 
CITY."

	The above is the title of a book recently pub-
lished at the Office of the Juvenile Instructor in
this city, the author is Brother James A. Little, a
nephew of the late Pres. Brigham Young. He has
very appropriately dedicated the book to Presi-
dent Wilford Woodruff, the only living Apostle 
Pioneer. The work is embellished with cuts
descriptive of the subjects and places treated
upon.
	We have not yet had time to peruse the book
carefully, but have gone over it in a sort of
desultory way, reading paragraphs and parts of
chapters here and there, but even in this way have
found many interesting and important matters re-
corded, with which we were erstwhile familiar.
	We all know how apt one is to speak of matters
in a general way, forgeting dates and such other
definite particulars as help to recall other similar
occurrences, and in this respect furnishing dates,
etc., the book will be invaluable.  The travels
and journeyings of the Saints are told in a simple 
unpretentious style that make them all the more
eloquent and pathetic.
	The book is one that should be in every home
library as well as public ones, and is especially a
good work to send out to friends in the world as
it graphically describes the removals from place 
to place, and persecutions of the Saints, and how
in the midst of trials and difficulties, they have
been upheld by faith, and shows how a loving
Father has led them even into this promised land,
this refuge in the mountains.
	There is no danger of too much being written
of the early pioneers of the country, and in glanc-
ing over brother Little's book, we are very glad
to see he has made particular mention of the
second company of pioneers, that company being
composed of men women and children, about 600
wagons leaving Winter Quarters on the Missouri
river the June after the first pioneers had started
in April and arriving in the valley the last days of
September and first and second of October.
	These are the people who built the fort, who
fought the black crickets, and paved the way
through innumerable hardships and privations
for those who followed after.  Too much cannot
be said in praise of their heroism and sublime
faith.  There are many excellent lessons to be
learned from the careful perusal of this book of
the pilgrimage of the Saints, and every one who
reads it will be benefitted thereby.  The book
may be safely recommended to all as possessing
reliable information, valuable as containing a por-
tion of the history of the Saints. The book is
printed in clear readable type, on a good quality
of paper, and contains 260 pages divided into 30
chapters.  Prices, cloth bound $1.50, leather gilt
$2.00, extra gilt $2.50.


L. D. S. WOMENS' MEETING.
	The regular semi-monthly meeting of L. D. S.
Womens' Associations held in the 14th Ward As-
sembly Rooms Feb. 15, 1890, was a very large
and interesting one. Mrs. M. I. Horne presiding.
Commenced with singing, "Come, Come ye
Saints." Prayer by Sister E. Stevenson, singing
"O, my Father Thou that dwellest." Minutes of
former meeting read and accepted. Pres. Horne
expressed herself pleased to see so large an as-
sembly, hoped none of them were discouraged,
because of the recent election, wished we were
as a people as much united in religious matters
as we are in politics. Instead of being dis-
couraged our faith should be increased. We shall
have the victory in due time, though we may have
to suffer. We have crossed the desert plains and
come here to build up Zion and we shall do it, 
as the Prophets have predicted; I have heard
Joseph prophesy concerning these things. Read
the history of the Israelites; related in brief some
portions of their history bearing upon the times
in which we live. It is our duty to stand up
bravely in defense of our rights. Great calamities
are befalling the nations of the earth have 
fought against the truth. The Lord will fight our
battles and the nations will fear and tremble.
Sisters seek for the Spirit of God and all will be
well.
	Sisters E. B. Fletcher, E. W. Wilcox, Diana
Reid, J. C. Howe, S. Cumberland, E. Stevenson
and others each spoke a few minutes, touching
upon important subjects and bearing powerful
testimonies to the truth of the work in which we
are engaged.
	Pres. Horne made a few closing remarks en-
couraging all to persevere and remain firm and
steadfast. Singing "Wake O, wake the world
from sleeping," benediction by Sister M. Brown,
meeting adjourned for two weeks.


The first General Conference of the Y. L. M. I. 
A. will be held Friday evening April the 4th, in 
this City.
	
	We have on hand the minutes of Relief Society
Conferences of Salt Lake, Sanpete, Uintah, and
St. Joseph Stakes which we shall use according
to dates, also an account of a trip through Emery
Stake.

	The General Conference of the Church which 
will convene on the 4th of April next is looked
forward to with intense interest, in view of the re-
markable changes that have and are taking place
in the history of Utah.

	There will be a Convention of the Woman Suff-
rage Association of Utah Thursday, April 3, 1890,
in the Assembly Hall, to commence at 2 o'clock
p. m. It is particularly desired that every organi-
zation throughout the Territory be represented
by a delegate, if possible; and if not, by manu-
script. All interested in suffrage are cordially in-
vited to be present.
				SARAH M. KIMBALL, Pres.
				RACHEL EDWARDS, Sec.

	There will be a General Conference of the Re-
lief Society held in the Salt Lake Assembly Hall
in this City Monday April 7, 1890. Meetings
commencing at 10 o'clock a. m. and 2 o'clock p. m.
the officers and members of the Relief Society
and all interested in its welfare and advancement
are cordially invited to attend. It is expected
that representatives will be present from each of
the Stake organizations and report at the meet-
ings. By order of the President,
						Zina D. H. Young.


WOMAN SUFFRAGE PETITION
	The W. S. A. of Utah sent the following peti-
to the Legislature now in session, which was, as
will be seen, read and referred at once to the
Committee on Judiciary; immediately following it
was a communication from the Governor of Utah
naming the Chancellor and Board of Regents, all
of them new, which was also referred to the
Judiciary.—Ed.
	The following petition was read:
	To His Excellency the Governor, and the 
Legislative Assembly of the Territory of Utah:
	We the undersigned, in behalf of the Woman
Suffrage Association of Utah, do respectfully
petition your Excellency and your honorable
body as follows: We call your attention to the
fact that within the past decade there has
been a marked advancement in the recognition
accorded to women in the intellectual world, giv-
ing hope that the last shadow of the dark ages is
fleeing before the daybreak of equal rights.
Colleges are opening their doors to woman, and
the learned professions freely welcome her to
their ranks.
	In the work of education she now exerts influ-
ence and authority; notably in New York City,
where she has performed valued labor as a com-
missioner on the metropolitan school board.
	In view of the unselfish interest shown by wo-
men in the cause of education, and that such in-
terest may be not only rewarded, but made more
useful, we earnestly request you to appoint two
representative women of Utah as Regents of the
Deseret University.
	We are satisfied that such appointment would
be creditable and helpful to that noble institution,
and we know that it would win the gratitude of
thousands of Utah's staunchest friends.
	We respectfully suggest the following as fit
persons for positions on the Board of Regents,
viz: Mrs. M. I. Horne and Mrs. Nellie Little.
					SARAH M. KIMBALL,
	President of Woman Suffrage Association of
Utah.


UTAH DELEGATES.
	The people of Utah who are interested in its 
true welfare and especially those who believe in 
woman suffrage and equal political rights will be
gratified to know that Mrs. Sarah M. Kimball
had an excellent opportunity afforded her as the 
official representative of the Utah W. S. A. to
make a report of the organized Association in this
Territory. The following is her speech as given
in the Woman's Tribune, Washington D. C.
March 9, 1890.—Ed.
				UTAH.
	Mrs. President and members of the 
Convention: The National Woman Suffrage
Association of Salt Lake City, Utah, held their
annual meeting for the election of officers for the
ensuing year on Saturday, January 11th 1890, at 
which time—
	Mrs. Sarah M. Kimball was elected president.
	Mrs. Emily S. Richards, first vice-president.
	Mrs. Ann D. Groesbeck, second vice-president.
	Mrs. Caroline E. Dye, third vice-president.
	Miss Rachel Edwards, secretary.
	Mrs. Julia C. Taylor, corresponding secretary.
	Miss Margie Dwyer, treasurer.
	Mrs. Phoebe Y. Beattie, chairman executive Committee.
	Our Association has three hundred paid up en-
rolled members, exclusive of sixteen branch or-
ganizations in other parts of the Territory. As
results of our meetings, we fully realize that edu-
cation, agitation and united effort are chief factors
in woman's political advancement. We are en-
deavoring to promote interest in the systematic
study of the science of government, and most
gratifying results have followed this course.


There are, in the various cities, towns and vil-
lages throughout the Territory, many able and de-
voted women who earnestly labor for the politi-
cal, moral, and intellectual advancement of wo-
man. Mrs. Mary J. Tanner, president of the
Utah County Branch, died on the 8th of January
last. In her our cause has lost an efficient officer
and a faithful friend. After having exercised the
elective franchise for seventeen years, we deeply feel
the degradation to which we have been subjected
in being deprived of a direct voice in the Gov-
ernment to which we are subject, and of being
relegated to the position of those who suffer under
the principle of “taxation without representation."
We have an institution in our Territory known as
the Deseret University, which admits male and
female students; the management of which, since
its organization, has been in the hands of a
Board of Regents composed entirely of men. We
have deemed it proper and right to have repre-
sentation on that board and, for that purpose, will
petition the Territorial Legislature, which is now
in session, to give us at least two women as mem-
bers of the Board of Regents. Experience has
taught us that a woman armed with the ballot is
endowed with more self-respect and commands
more respectful deference and considerate atten-
tion from men than she can ever claim under her
present servile conditions. With these thoughts
before us, we feel it incumbent upon us to renew
our endeavors to secure that right of suffrage to
which all women are entitled, and we shall not
cease to importune the powers that be, until the
political shackles are stricken from womankind.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
RAMBLING THOUGHTS.
	To guard well all God-given gifts and blessings
is the duty of the Saints.  I often think are we on
the watch-tower or in the basement?  there is so
much at the present time to look out for. 
	We have been made partakers of the good
word and of the Spirit of God, each Saint being
baptized and receiving a knowledge for himself
or herself that the Holy Ghost bears witness that
the gifts and blessings which adorned the Church
in our Savior's day are again restored to the
earth, and have so much light that the Priests of
the earth say "Come let us blow out the candle of
the Lord that has been set to burn in these
mountains," and would light the true path of
peace and happiness.
	"By their works ye shall know them," what
have been the words and the works of the Saints?
O, all ye inhabitants of the earth cease to sin and
love God; He is so good and kind, merciful, and
long suffering, "therefore are we not consumed."
The Presidents of these United States one after
another look gravely on, take their oaths, and
their seats, to be just in administering the law in
this grand Republic which the Saints have ever
honored and never by oaths' or any other means
have sought to be anything except a sacred por-
tion of this great commonwealth.  We know God
has sent a true Prophet again to the earth, who
has left a record indelible, by staining the soil of
free America brought about through religious
persecution.  He gave good advice even to this
nation, in one instance he said "it would be best
to purchase the slaves and colonize them thus
saving life and treasure;" if we could turn back
the wheels of time the nation might make repairs,
but it is not possible now, and thus it will be again
in regard to the treatment of this people.
	We work for the dead and they are benefited
thereby, it being legally done according to the
order of lineage and of priesthood and no one is
hurt on the earth, but love and kindness is mani-
fested for all the living and the dead.
	Let me a grand-daughter of a Revolutionary
soldier speak to the Honorable President of the
nation and all its lawmakers in behalf of truth, 
how would it be received?  with indifference per

[Column 2]
haps scorn.  The time will come to these great
statesmen when they will wish they had dealt
differently with the Church of Jesus Christ of
Latter-day Saints.  Come and look upon our
works with unbiased minds!
	This government would not have been left to
grasp the saints justly earned means, that would
have done much good used in its legitimate way, 
but the poor eagle had its political talons severed
years ago, and sent out to grasp every position of
trust in Utah, the Post Office among the first; the
talons have grown and finally the Edmund's law
raised the lever and with unconstitutional frauds
smote off the eagle's head, and all restraint is
gone.  Jury's only such in name, not one that
dare express a sentence kindly to this people can
be obtained.  Where is Justice?  Men are sent-
enced when arrested as one of the lawyers said,
"We would convict Jesus by our juries if He were
here," so they could, but our Savior though cruci-
fied by wicked men rose again, and as Mary and
Martha both were searching for Him, Jesus the
beloved son appeared to them and bade them go
and tell His disciples He had risen.  This was
spiritual and temporal, a risen Savior and mortal
women. 
	Though ex-Gov. West has said God has no
telegraph to earth now, while Lawyer Baskin
remarked, no man that believes in God is fit for
an American citizen; these are the kind of men
who would rob God of His right to rule the
elements.
	When I see such men set aside every principle
of truth and virtue, not recognizing this people,
and deliberately confiscate the rights of the gov-
erned by fraud,after confiscating Church property
through religious persecution set afloat by Priests
and political traitors, if the American eagle had
a head he would close his eyes and ears too,
could he look upon the state of things in Utah:
sound in spirit, true in integrity, brave in danger, 
good to all men and women, throughout the whole
world, such are this people.  How can men think 
to deceive God?  Can they not pause and con-
sider that these are sacred rights that have been 
sacrificed by this government?
	O, how sad would it be, if war again should
desolate our fair land America.  To all Christian 
sects the grand chain of rights is marred, but the
world says "How so you Mormons, Mormon
homes are so impure?  Just come and see, don't 
be cats-paws, or men and women who have
jaundice.  Did you ever see clubs thrown at a
tree with poor apples?
	Our homes are erected and created with pure
motives, a hereafter our guiding star.
	Love of virtue is characteristic of the Saints, 
prosperity has attended our labors, and purer,
brighter children I do not believe any community
can or has produced on earth than are born in
this Church; no slums of sin, no houses of infamy,
no disposition for destroying life, look truthfully
upon us; instead of a loathsome cancer or ulcer
as we have been called by leading men, even down 
to the most vile; we are a living pattern of good
order, loving, pure  homes, loyal citizens, indus-
trious, cleanly, never intruding upon our neigh-
bors, proclaiming to all men that Christ is again
coming to earth, not a babe but as a loving Father 
warning His children that He is the legal
sovereign of the earth, kind to all who will ac-
knowledge Him, merciful to those to whom no
law has been given, to them can be no transgres-
sion.  I know the past and the faithful integrity
of this Church since the year 1835, and what it
passed through; the present is a review, the
future rests with our Heavenly Father to mete
out and we know to those who endure it will be
glorious. 
	These are a few of my thoughts on this day the
4th, of March one of the national days of our
country when one's thoughts incline to consider
the position and workings of this great Republic 
in view of its momentous questions.
						Z. D. H. Young.


EDUCATION.
	Education is development, and its aim is the
harmonious action of all the powers, a cultivation
of the mind, the body, and the soul.
	A close adherence to these principles will make 
man complete in his sphere,—a God in embryo.
	Strictly speaking, education covers the whole
area of life, and is the sum total of man’s exist-
ence. Death is not its terminus, for when we
look beyond the grave, we there see him en-
throned, forming worlds and commanding chaos.
True education, then, places the sword of science
in the hand of man standing on the foundation of
pure religion.
	If this be true, we will not wonder at Prof.
Huxley's saying: “True science and true religion
are twin sisters, which if separated proves death  
to both.”—For says he, “Science prospers in the
same ratio as it is religious; and religion flourishes
in the exact proportion, to the scientific depth
and firmness of its basis."
	The educated man is not the scholar, the pugi-
list, nor the 'good man,' but he is a well balanced
combination of the three. He has a healthful
mind in a healthy body, and is in possession of a
pure heart. Other combinations, can not be
classified with the truly educated.
	There is one fact we must learn, and that is
that mental progress is due solely to mental labor,
just as physical development is due to exercise.
Our natural abilities are perfected by study as a
plant is by growth.
	The merchant might ask when can I study—
when a moment presents itself, for moments
make hours. Read a little, then reflect much, for
it is not what we read but what we retain, that
becomes of use to us. Let us each have an aim
in life and be sure that we reach it.
	Ask education what she has done for the hu-
man family, and she will answer,—have I not
tamed the Lightnings, and made the mighty ocean
a highway of travel and commerce? Who are
our wise men, Doctors, Lawyers, Judges, States-
men, etc. They are my children.
	Ask ignorance what she has to offer, and the
answer will be “tramps”—Do I not fill the
saloons, can you not see my off-spring crowding
on the street corners, and collecting at the least
sign of excitement? They are my children.
The profoundest sorrow known to man is not
brought upon us by the world, its malice and its
persecution, we can laugh at, and hurl defiance at
its injuries:—but the sorrow we bring upon our-
selves, is the heart’s sorrow. Let us then, make
the most of our time and spare ourselves vain re-
grets for wasted days for, “Of all the sad words
of tongue or pen, the saddest are these 'it might
have been."


THE WORLD’S CIVILIZATION AND
POLITICS.
	These two go hand in hand. Civilization as
some of our opponents interpret it, gives leniency
to wrong-doing and calls it right. But the
Scripture says, "Wo, unto them that put light
for darkness and darkness for light.”
	The fathers and mothers among Latter-day
Saints have ever been diligent in teaching their
children to walk in the paths of virtue, to be
honest, not to gamble and spend their time in
grog-shops, for these things lead to misery and
death; and for this cause, the men who have
been appointed by the Voice of the People, who
are in the majority have suppressed these
accursed nuisances; Until later years, those who
have been sent here from abroad have encouraged
these places, and now they are fully established
and they tell us that such places have done more
to win our youth over to their ungodly ways and
views than any thing else. Think you that many


of them are won over?  Heaven forbid!  there
may be a few weak-minded ones, but their fate
is a down-fall from the path of rectitude and,
right, when swerved or allured from heaven's
path which is straight and narrow.  Yet to be
firm and steadfast and hold out to the end, there
is a crown of glory laid up for such in the eternal
mansions of our great Redeemer.
	But if we would obtain salvation at the hands
of our Father, we are not free to sin; there is a
penalty attached to it that no one can escape.
"The wages of sin is death," and the way of the
transgressor is hard."  Peace and joy come from
doing right.  The world cannot give it nor take
it away.  Oh, that my warning voice could reach
those who have strayed from the fold of Christ.
The truth of the everlasting Gospel that you have
turned away from,—the ancient Saints laid down
their lives for, and counted all things but dross,
that they might obtain eternal life in the king-
dom of heaven, and they testified of what we
now enjoy, the fulness of the everlasting Gospel
that would be restored again in the last days."
That the kingdom would be set up, and all
nations would be gathered into it.  And men would
have to be called as was Aaron, that no man
could take this honor to himself."  The
Melchisedec and Aaronic priesthood is now con-
fered upon the Elders of the Church of Latter-
day Saints.  And they have the authority to
teach sound doctrine.  The same that Paul told
Titus to preach.
	Ch. II. 1. But speak thou the things which be-
come sound doctrine:
	2.  That the aged men be sober, grave, tem-
perate, sound in faith, in charity, in patience.
	3.  The aged women likewise, that they be in
behavior as becometh holiness, not false ac-
cusers, not given to much wine, teachers of good
things.
	4.  That they may teach the young women to be
sober, to love their husbands, to love their child-
ren.
	5.  To be discreet, chaste, keepers at home, good.
obedient to their own husbands, that the word of
God be not blasphemed.
	6.  Young men likewise exhort to be sober-
minded.
	Paul must have been a believer in hierarchy to
be teaching in sacred things.  And to think that
brother Paul dare to assert that in Abraham all
the nations of the earth should be blessed and he
a polygamist, had four wives.  It is rather doubt-
ful whether our law-makers at the highest court
at Washington and all others who have pro-
claimed so loud against it, will accept a blessing
from Abraham or have any desire to go to his
bosom, and less so, if his four wives are there;
he also had the gospel preached to him, lie must
have received it as he was a preacher of righteous-
ness.  There is quite a similarity, between
Abraham and the Latter-day Saints.
					MARY ANN M. PRATT.
	Salt Lake City, Feb. 21st, 1890.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


W. S. A. OF UTAH.
	Minutes of the regular meeting of the W. S.
A. of Utah held March 10, 1890, in the Social
Hall.  Pres. Sarah M. Kimball in the chair.
Prayer by Mrs. Mary A. Freeze.  Mrs. E. S.
Richards then presented the petition which
had been prepared for His Excellency the
Governor and the Honorable Members of the
Legislature; in which the Association asks that
Mrs. Nellie Little and Mrs. M. I. Horne be-
come members of the Board of Regents of the
University of Deseret.
	Mrs. M. Y. Dougall, one of the Delegates to
the National American Woman Suffrage Asso-
ciation at Washington, reported a very favor-
able, successful, and profitable trip through-
out.  They represented 15 votes which stood


second to the highest vote present.  Said they re-
ceived every courtesy possible, and were treated
well by all.
	Pres. Kimball reiterated the former speaker's
remarks as well as adding that the decree of
God was that man and woman should be
equal.
	Thought they could over come what is
termed the principal objection to woman's vot-
ing by requiring a certain qualification in
order to vote; such as requesting every woman
to be able to read and write.
	Several interesting anecdotes were related.
	Dr. E. S. Barney next read a paper on the
subject of Suffrage.
	Mrs. E. S. Richards expressed herself as be-
ing encouraged in the cause.
	A vote of thanks was tendered the delega-
tion.  Meeting adjourned Sine die.
				RACHEL EDWARDS. Sec.


MY SUBJECT IS SUFFRAGE.
	[An article read at the Suffrage meeting
held in the Social Hall, Salt Lake City, on
Monday Feb. 10, 1890, by Dr. Elvira S.
Barney.]
	The definition of mankind is, "The human
race collectively, man and woman."  The
Sacred Book says, "They became one flesh."
The same book says, "Man is not without the
woman in Christ."  Woman is the counter-
part of man.  They each make the happy whole.
	No structure is complete without its parts.
The roof of a house is dependent upon its
supports, it covers the structure.  A founda-
tion is the beginning of the whole.
	Right when enjoyed gives tone to society,
and to the heart a welcome sound, and is as
music to a cultivated ear; this makes heaven;
and the opposite brings discord.
	It is not a rational thought, that will not
accord to our neighbor, the same right we ask
for ourselves.
	If we require lumps of ice, to assuage our
burning thirst, to cool our fevered lips, should
we deny another lying upon the same couch
like relief.
	If man has become crippled through unfore-
seen powers, and woman is strong, she should
use her powers to aid him on until he has
crossed the chasm.  Then, the case should be
reversed, and if he is strong, and she is physi-
cally weak, God made it so; and he should give
her aid, as liberal minds do.
	A noble man will never draw a line of de-
marcation between himself and his wife, for
she is his own choosing, and is his partner in
life, and the mother of his children, his com-
fort in night dreams, and the solace of his
cares.
	Suppose man, because he has the power, to
pluck a rose from the stem, or bush that gave
it birth, and from which it is nourished and
fed, should cast it upon the burning desert
sand, leaving it powerless to survive beneath
the rays of the scorching sun, and thus it
withers and dies.  Does this prove that Might
is Right?  No man need try to make himself
believe that mankind does not include woman;
for his existence proves the reverse; and
legally he has not been given absolute power
to deprive her of any universal right, Re-
ligiously, Politically, or Domestically.
	If her powers are small and puny, why fet-
ter the little she has?  Give her Suffrage,
Why?  That she may help modify existing
wrongs.
	Today are thousands of mothers of children,
widows or worse, wives of wicked, drunken,
debauched libertines, and if they are too in-
toxicated to stand, they lean upon their neigh-
bor while they can "Legally" cast their vote,
for similar man as themselves, as a ruler over
man and woman, for which act law does not

[Column 2]
dispute.  Why do I say similar?  Has not our
past experience proven it thus?  Did not we
after seventeen years of franchise, have it stolen
from us?  Question, Who, or what, caused it
thus?  It was men—dacity.  You may say
this is very strong language.  Yes so it is. But
if we cannot catch a thief, should we be cen-
sured for saying thief, when a value is taken
without remuneration?
	A very wise man once explained the virtue
of union, by taking some little sticks, separately
he broke them, but by tying a bundle of them
together, he showed they were not easily
broken.  In the past woman has been curtailed,
hence her powers have been weak, but her
numbers are increasing, and on the face of her
just measures she will soon show her strength.
	I have heard the word feminine used some-
times when the opposite sex desired to express
weakness.  If they will only read the cata-
logue of crimes today, they can see there,
chronicled more than weakness, a deranged,
misguided, besotted, muscular brain.  Should
I say feminine here?  No!  The application
here would be a disgrace to the word.
	The muscular portion of the race, the ma-
jority of them, are drifting rapidly into the
great vortex of crime.  It would be better that
they act the part of a woman awhile, and turn
the wash machine five or six hours, or carry
a twenty pound baby over a long road to
market and back, as mothers have done.  Ah
no! the babe would soon be too heavy for such
as they, and would be hurriedly thrown into
the mother's arms again, saying, "Take your
child and nourish it, and ascend the rugged
hill."  Who are the fathers of the race, if it
is only the mothers that should nourish and
carry the child?  Give her suffrage then, if she
must act the part of father, as well as be the
mother of men.
	Suppose we leave those barbarous ones, and
speak of our noble friends, those are they, that
defend, and always come to the aid, and help
carry the burdens and sorrows of woman.  We
are proud to say that we claim by descent,this
nobility in the race, a kindred tie from
Abraham.  It was pronounced upon him by
the Father of the universe, "that he should be
a father of a mighty nation, numerous as the
sands of the sea shore."  Mighty in what?
Numbers, excellence, valor, virtues, &c. Genesis
XVIII Chap. 18&19 vers. Also the Lord said,
"I know he will command his children after
him."  Hence, the virtue that exists today,
for which woman aided by man, is struggling
to protect, and she is becoming a great army
in the land under the name of Suffrage, and in
this group you'll find Abraham's blood cours-
ing through their veins.  Hence the great ap-
peal for right, and objections to wrong.  By
agitation, and great toil, woman's voice is be-
ing heard, and Suffrage is spreading beyond
our governmental areas; it is almost world-
wide.
	Suppose I predict, that it will not be long,
until the rulers of the nation, in order to extri-
cate themselves from their entanglements
through the rapid growth of dishonor, suffer-
ing, sin and crime;—(which is [-]e unto a
massive underbrush in a large piece of timbered
country; it is not only unsightly, but inter-
woven, matted together, and before the wood-
man's ax can be applied to the larger growth,
he finds he must clear it away.  He sets him-
self about it, but he soon finds he is lost.  His
head becomes bewildered and he cries for help.
He has waited too long and instead of apply-
ing the brakes to the powerful locomotive, he
has applied the fuel.  He now sees his mis-
take, and beholds his dilemma.  If disruption
should take place, then terrible the confusion;
and he is on the brink, and is momentarily
preserved by a hair's breadth space.)—Now
I say, suppose I predict that which was so
unpopular a short time before will be sought


for, and also an appeal will be made to Wo-
man, (as often is to her quick perceptive powers
in emergency) the Head Center of the Great
Woman's Suffrage Organization, including her
noble brothers, the question will be; “What
does Woman say?  Give us some of your wis-
dom?
	While reading the political matter of the
day, of different Territories, I became in-
terested in a report of the Committee, on
County and Municipal Government, in Wash-
ington Territory, Olympia, July 22nd, 1889.
Especially the following clause. “The Legis-
lature shall have no power to impose tax upon
counties, towns, municipalities, for local pur-
poses, such power is vested absolutely in
Local Authority.’' This suggested the fol-
lowing sentences, I am a woman, and deprived
of suffrage.  I have paid taxes about thirty
years, and I have often heard it expressed that
“taxation without representation is tyranny.”
I'll add to this and say.  It is a vexation,
a disgrace to the nation, bondage, a species of
slavery, a great incentive to rebellion.  On
our public buildings, on all public political
occasions, is hoisted and unfurled the stars
and stripes, as a representation of our Grand
Old Constitution.  Our martial music issues
forth strains of welcome to national holidays.
But it is sad, to think in the folds of that
majestic flag, is hidden a something that speaks
louder than the cannon’s roar, "Crippled
Liberty,” and in the swells of the martial
music I hear stifled moans, “Crippled Liberty.”
The Orator of the day proudly reads the
nation’s motto.  Life, Liberty, and the pur-
suit of Happiness, guaranteed under the Con-
stitution.  It is “Mistaken Liberty.” Hark!
What do we hear?  A double echo from the
flag accompanied by the sound of the drum.
Give Woman. Suffrage, give woman suffrage.
Read your mottoes, unfurl your flags; but we
will place upon our banner, the name of, and
give all honor to, our Father, the King of
Kings,woman’s friend.

	Ladies!  Do not pine and die on injured past,
	Ye should sue for woman's rights, from first to last,
	If ye will but work and wait, you then will see,
	Woman as well as man from tyrant’s laws are free.

	Ere long, she will help to hold the Center Staff,
	Unfurl the flag that will make the nations laugh;
	There in print "Woman Suffrage" in letters bold,
	Read her name “Queen with King," in the nations roll,

	With him, she has endured the scorching fires, 
	And kept her faithful beat through midnight hours;
	And mingled with the pebbles of the briny sea;
	In battle, has helped to make the nations free.

	Many things there are of which we are not yet sure
	But woman knows so well, that she can much endure,
	And the sweet whisperings are "Oh !  watch and wait,
	The pleasure of God, He never comes too late."

	If I was a poet, I'd make the air ring; 
	To woman I’d talk, and of her I would sing.
	To critics then I'll say if laurels you've won;
	I'll tell you once for all, I have just begun.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


R. S., Y. L. M. I. A., AND P. A. REPORTS

		   MALAD STAKE.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	"The Quarterly Conference of the Relief
Society of the Malad Stake was held at Port-
age Feb. 9th, 1890.  Pres. Lucinda Hoskins
presiding.  On the stand Coun.  Wm.  H.
Gibbs, Bishops of the different wards, Presi-
dents and Counselors of the different branches,
etc.  Meeting opened by singing “May we
who know the joyful sound.” Prayer was
offered by Brother J. D. Gibbs, singing
"Prayer is the soul's sincere desire.” Minutes
of last Conference read and approved.  Pres.
Lucinda Hoskins then addressed the meeting,


said, "we are living in a time that will try the
hearts of all; our greatest aim should be to
stand firm in the kingdom of God. The Relief
Society is doing a great work wherever it has
been organized, we should be diligent in at-
tending to all our duties."
	Sister A. Hall then spoke a short time bear-
ing testimony to the truth of the Gospel.
Bishops Jonah Evans, Enoch Harris, and
Thomas Davis made very instructive remarks
on several different subjects, encouraging the
sisters to live up to their privileges and stand
firm in the kingdom of God. Meeting ad-
journed until 2 p. m., singing "Beautiful
Home." Prayer by Bishop Enoch Harris.
	Afternoon services commenced by singing
"Guide us O Thou Great Jehovah." Prayer
by Brother Joseph Dudley. Singing "Come
let us prepare with one heart." Pres. Rose
Howell of Muddy Creek, Pres. Jane Harris of
Portage, Coun. Esther Lusk of Malad City,
Sister Philene Hall of Washakie, Sister Eliza-
beth Davis of Cherry Creek, Sister Elvira
Harrison of St. John, all gave in favorable re-
ports of their respective branches, expressed a
determination to go ahead in the great work of
the Relief Society, and bore a faithful testi-
mony to the work we are engaged in.
	Coun. Wm. H. Gibbs then addressed the
sisters, spoke of the necessity of storing grain.
"We should be diligent in attending our meet-
ings; the Relief Society is a great blessing, they
are doing a great work in visiting the poor
and administering to those that need their aid
and assistance," and gave much valuable in-
struction.
	Pres. Lucinda Hoskins made a few closing
remarks. Conference adjourned for three
months. Singing "Lord we come before Thee
now." Benediction was pronounced by Brother
Richard Davis.
			LUCINDA HOSKINS, Pres.
			ELIZA. A. HALL. Sec.
West Portage, March 4th, 1890.


[Column 1]

		﻿SCHOOLS OF MUSIC.
    We see the same extravagance of expression
in the school of poetry and prose literature in
France.  There the spirit of romanticism, con-
tending against the artificiality of classicism
took the form of positive revolution and
anarchy; and writers went to such extremes of
caprice, both literary and moral, that,  with a
few exceptions, such as Lamartine and Victor
Hugo, it became anything  but reformatory.
Even in Germany the literary curiosities and
eccentricities of Jean-Paul-Richter and E. T.
A. Hoffmann are almost too fantastically
romantic to be healthy.
    So among the romantic composers of music
there are too many whose extravagances  are
ridiculous and offensive; and whereas Schubert
often bordered on the realistic, as in "Erlkoenig"
and "The Village" (in "The Winter Journey").
his writings are always musical, while too
many imitators and  would be  innovators in
this school have only produced noise and
painful "effects."  Whatever these other com
posers may do, no one ever hears a  composi-
tion by Frantz Schubert without being benefit-
ed thereby.
    The tendency in composition during this
century, since the time of Beethoven and
Schubert, has constantly been toward the
romantic; growing more and more demonstra-
tive  and  extravagant,  until we have  now
reached what might be called a school of
realism.  But again this disposition in art is
constantly coincident with progress in every
direction, and seems to be the expression or
product of the "Spirit of the Times" already
mentioned. Naturally each new epoch has wants
corresponding to its position, customs, and the
state of its civilization.  We  are growing so
intensely practical that we can be no longer

[Column 2]

satisfied to have anything left of the dreamy,
speculative, or imaginative; but we must have
plain, straightforward, scientific facts, well de-
fined situations, and suggestions bearing on
the economy and practical side of every day
existence.
    Observe this tendency in the art of painting,
commencing with the Dutch school, whose artists
painted not only pictures of the real common-
place life about them, but, for fear  that  there
might be a gleam of ideality exhibited,  these
old fellows were rather wont to choose for their
subjects interiors, with all the disgusting details
and offensive minutiae of domestic life  among
the lower classes of that time.  Free  fights in
taprooms; men, women,  and  children,  mixed
up together in drunken brawls, and  the like.
Any one who remembers the Teniers, Browers
and Jan Steens, will not fail to appreciate their
realism. And this same tendency has extended
into  more  recent painting.  Even into  the
historical and religious art, so long  considered
purely idealistic, has this same spirit of realism
penetrated, guided by the spirit of science and
accurate research.  No more striking instances
of this are to be found than the genre paint-
ings of Knauss, Defregger, and their class.
    Then, in literature,  see what realism has
accomplished, or not accomplished, beginning
with Balzac, the father of the school with his
melancholy pictures  of  Parisian life  in  the
early part of the  present century, down to
Z[-]la, with his minute and detailed description,
in clear outlines and high coloring, of a bad
case of small-pox, which he gives us in that de-
lightful and spirituelle flight of the imagina-
tion, the romance "Nana."  But to return to
our romanticism; the father of romantic opera is
Von Weber, the composer of “Der Freischutz”
(the enchanted bullets).   In  his operas the
refined spirit of the school shows itself in its
brightest and most captivating form.  They
are masterpieces of imagination, weird and
ghostly, and produce the same effect on a
sensitive individual  as  will  Edgar  Allan
Poe's fantasies, say for instance, "The Story
of a Black Cat," when read under favorable
circumstances.  With Weber, no sooner does
one of those weird ideas present itself to his
mind than he yields himself to its influence,
body and soul, and paints  it  in  such  wild
fantastic colors that his audience cannot choose
but dream or shrink, or shudder, or be horri-
fied at his will.
    Mendelssohn, although in some respects a
romanticist, as, for  instance,  in  "The Mid-
summer Night's Dream," was an imitator and
a very successful one,  of the classic forms.
He, of all the modern composers, has made the
nearest approach to the old reformatory spirit
of religious composition in the great oratorios
"Saul" and "Elijah".
    Schumann is perhaps the best known light
in  the  purely  modern  development of  this
romanticism, and was during his life, its leader
and champion.  He revived the spirit of Richter
and  Hoffmann,  and  in  fact,  taking  their
writings as texts, he actually tried to portray in
music language the peculiar eccentricities of
these old rhapsodists.  He was both musician
and poet.  In  order to  understand  him one
must be "en rapport" with the spirit of the
poetry by such German romanticists as Richter,
Heine, and Schlegal.  And just as these poets
revealed endless depths  of feeling  in a few
lines, so does Schumann succeed in saying great
things, and leaving unutterable things to be
felt, in one of his short piano poems or songs.
Schumann is more available to  us, owing to
the fact that his most striking peculiarities
and  propensities toward romanticism show
themselves in his piano compositions.   Like
Schubert, he resorts to any technical means to
give a picture of his poetic fancies, and  these
are always strange beyond all description, but
beautiful and striking.   If it be true—what a


friend recently told me—that all musicians are
more or less insane, then Schumann's madness
is full of consistency and method. But he
died before middle age of morbid insanity,
his brain being unable to sustain the stress of
romanticism which his disposition and tempera-
ment brought to bear upon it.
	It is unnecessary to give any further ex-
amples of the romantic composers. There are
as many different genres in musical composi-
tion as there are styles of writers in the history
of fiction; gypsy, Spanish, and Norwegian
music; character music, like Gottschalk's negro
melodies, with their banjo and tambourine ac-
companiment represented on the piano; and,
 highest of all, Chopin's beautiful and refined
piano composition of the purest national charac-
ter (Polish.)


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


NOTES AND NEWS.
	Queen Victoria is anxious to establish a
censorship of the English press.

	Mrs. Harriet Beecher Stowe is rapidly near-
ing life's close.

	There are eleven women included on the
school boards of six cities in Norway.
	
	Mrs. Frank Leslie will deliver a series of
twenty lectures in the principal Western cities
next fall.

	Clara Barton has investigated the suffering
in South Dakota, and says that there is urgent
need of immediate help.

	Pundita Ramabai, with ten other women
were delegates to the Fifth National Congress
of India.

	Fifty thousand women are reported as hav-
ing voted at the school elections recently held
in Kansas. Many women were elected on the
school board.

	Mrs. Ida A. Harper who is regarded as one
of the best women journalists in Indiana,
recently succeeded to the managing editorship
of the Terre Haute (Ind.) News.


IN MEMORIAM.

	It has pleased an allwise Providence to take from our
midst our dear Sister Caroline Anderson Folkman the be-
loved wife of C. O. Folkman, of Plain City, Weber Co.,
who departed this life Jan. 25th, 1890. Deceased was
born March. 17th, 1838, at Christianland, Norway. She
received the Gospel as taught by the Elders of the Church
of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, in her native land
when quite a young girl. Emigrated to Utah with her
parents, brothers and sisters and was married to Brother
C. O. Folkman in 1862. Sister Caroline was for years a
Teacher in the Relief Society and was very kind to the sick 
and poor in her district. She strove faithfully to sustain
her family while her husband was away on his several
missions to Scandinavia. She has also done a good work
for her departed relatives in the Temple at Logan. She
was the mother of eight children three of whom are living,
one son a young man and two little girls. Her demise is
severely lamented by her husband, children and friends.
She has suffered for years with disease of the stomach but
when at the Temple she was baptized for her health and
under the hands of the Elders she was healed immediately.
Her strength has been greatly taxed in the past few
months with much sickness in the family, her husband and
little daughter both down at the same time with fever. She
waited on them both night and day until she was worn out,
her heart became so weak, she was obliged to take to her
bed, and gradually sank to rest to await the resurrection
morn. 
								ALMIRA RAYMOND, Pres.
								M. A. W. SPIERS, Sec.
		TO HER TWO LITTLE DAUGHTERS,
			Dear little ones dry up your tears
				And look to God above,


For He will grant you needed strength
		To join the one you love.

	For she has loved you dearer far,
		Than all the world beside;
	Then strive dear children to obey
		Our Lord whate'er betide.

	That you may meet her in that land,
		Where all is peace and joy,
	Where all the Saints will be at rest,
		And nothing can annoy.
								M. A. W. S.
Plain City, March 7th, 1892.


[Column 1]
UNION PACIFIC 
THE OVERLAND ROUTE 
Tickets 
ON SALE 
TO ALL 
PRINCIPAL POINTS
EAST, WEST,
NORTH and SOUTH 
AT 
UNION TICKET OFFICE,
	Main Street, Salt Lake City.
		J.V. PARKER,
			Asst. Genl. Pass. Agt.

R.K. THOMAS
26, 28, 30 and 32 East 1st South St.,
SALT LAKE CITY.
The Leading Retail 
Cash House.
R. K. THOMAS 

Special to the Ladies.
AT TEASDEL'S
Will be found the latest styles and productions
in 
LACES, RUCHES, EMBRODERIES, 
FANS, GLOVES, PARASOLS,
RIBBONS, COLLARS, TIES
And an elegant assortment of
DRY GOODS.
	Special department for Ladies' Misses' and In-
fant's Shoes. 
			112, 114, 116, 118 East Temple Street 

DAVID JAMES & CO.
TINNERS GAS, WATER & STEAM FITTERS 
	Agent for RUMSEY’S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from 
the country promptly responded to.
	Address. DAVID JAMES. Box 306, SALT LAKE CITY.

[Column 2]	
$5000,00 In Prizes 
GIVEN AWAY 
BY THE 
SALT LAKE HERALD,
TO SUBSCRIBERS OF THE
SEMI-WEEKLY ISSUE.

	The Semi-Weekly Herald is now the largest, brightest 
and most enterprising paper published in Utah. It 
consists of 8 pages, and is shortly to be re-enlarged. The 
Herald publishes the most standard current stories by 
special arrangement with the authors; containing many 
illustrated features; has the exclusive rights to Bill
Nye's letters; maintains a regular telegraphic corres-
pondent in Washington, and receives weekly letters
from the celebrated correspondent Frank G. Carpenter. 
Special attention is paid to market reports and agri-
cultural news; and a prominent feature will be made of
religions news, the tabernacle services being regularly
reported, while prominent sermons of the leading 
church authorities are given in full. In politics, The
Herald stands as it has ever stood, the firm and un-
deviating champion of the rights of the people of Utah. 

	The Premium Distribution for 1890
Will be on a grander scale than ever before,
	FIFTEEN HUNDRED PRIZES.
	Aggreating in value over $5000.00,

Being distributed among all subscribers to the Semi-
Weekly early in April.

Prize No. 1 is an upright Fischer piano, worth 
	$500 cash.
Prize No. 2 is a thoroughbred Holstein bull,
	worth $200. 
Prize No. 3 is a Bain wagon, worth $175. 
Prize No. 4 is a lot in Garden City, worth $150.
Prize No. 5 is a yearling heifer, worth $125.
Prize No. 6 is a purse of $100 in gold, and in 
	the list are several hundred dollars in gold 
	in smaller purses, while included in the 
	1500 prizes are sewing machines, mowers,
	reapers, rifles, photos, steel engravings,
	encyclopedias, toilet sets, fruit trees, shade
	trees, dishes, stoves, books, etc.,

FIFTEEN HUNDRED IN ALL! 
Which will be distributed among all who 
subscribe for 
THE SEMI-WEEKLY HERALD.
Price $3.00 per year. 
Send for a descriptive catalogue free.
	Address
THE HERALD CO., Salt Lake.

		Officers:
	JOHN T. CAINE, President,
	HEBER J. GRANT, Vice-President.
	HORACE G. WHITNEY, Business Manager.
		DIRECTORS:
FRANCIS ARMSTRONG.		W. H. ROWE,
W. W. RITER,					S. P. TEASDEL,
JUNIUS F. WELLS,			HEBER M. WELLS,
RICHARD W. YOUNG,		E. U. WOOLLEY,
CHAS. S. BURTON,			JAS. SHARP,
		ELIAS A. SMITH.


Woman's Exponent.
The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.
