VOL. 18.	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, JANUARY 15, 1890.	NO. 16.


CONTENTS.

	Anglo-Saxon Literature.—A. T. C. Hephzibah
—A Story. Treatment of Children.—S. F. At-
wood. Extracts from a Letter.—J. M. Sjodahl.
Correspondence.—E. A. Crane Watson. Notes
and News. Salt Lake Stake R. S.—E. Howard.
Lehi W. S. A.—Sarah T. Evans. In Memoriam
Emily McKee. Obituaries. A Sad Death.
	EDITORIAL:—Notes. A Golden Wedding.—
H. H. S. Woman's Privileges.—S. W. Richards.
Utah W. S. A.—Cornelia H. Clayton. Constitu-
tion National-American W. S. A.
	Poetry:—A Hundred Years Ago. Number
Nine.—E. T. Old Folks Picnic and Ball.


A HUNDRED YEARS AGO.

Where are the birds that sang 
	A hundred years ago?
The flowers that all in beauty sprang
	A hundred years ago?
		The lips that smiled,
		The eyes that wild
		In flashes shone
		Soft eyes upon—
Where, Oh, where are lips and eyes,
The maiden's smile, the lover's sighs
		That were so long ago?

Who peopled all the city's streets
	A hundred years ago?
Who filled the Church with faces meek
	A hundred years ago?
		The sneering tale
		Of sister frail,
		The plot that worked
		Another's hurt—
Where, Oh, where are plots and sneers,
The poor man's hopes, the rich man's fears,
	That were so long ago?

Where are the graves where dead men slept
	A hundred yesrs ago? 
Who, whilst living, oft-times wept,
	A hundred years ago? 
		By other men
		They knew not then,
		Their lands are tilled,
		Their homes are filled—
Yet nature then was just as gay,
And bright the sun shone as to-day, 
	A hundred years ago.


NUMBER NINE.

I've passed again the ordeal of pain.
Been close to the shore of "The River" again.
	But this innocent babe of mine,
Makes it seem but as a troubled dream,
And life again takes a luminous gleam,
	Although it is number nine.

As I gaze in the depths of its innocent eyes
Gazing around in such mute surprise
	Wondering what life can be;
I too am filled with wondering,
Why it is that fate should bring,
	Another wee babe to me?

And I wonder if spirits in spirit-land
Ere they come to us an earthly band
	Can choose where they will to come.
If so it seems that this babe of mine
Would surely not have been number nine,
	But have chosen a better home.

And I wondered if as they journey to earth,
Ere they join the body for earthly birth


If ﻿they meet the Gone Before.
And, if they talk of the struggle and strife,
That is sure to be  part of an earthly life,
	And trials that must be borne.

And I wonder if when behind the scene,
If they know what will be, and what has been,
	And all the mystery of life.
If so they know ere they enter the gloom
All the joy there'll be in a future home,
	When they've ended  the earthly strife.

As I lovingly clasp my babe so pure,
And think of what she must endure,
	My heart is filled with misgiving.
And I hardly know for which I should weep,
The innocent babe in my arms asleep,
	Or those that are not with the living.

A peace comes with the thoughts of the dead,
To the life beyond with hope we're led,
	And it is joy now understood
To know that forever they all are mine,
Both the living and dead that make the nine,
	If I'm true to my mother-hood.

E. T.


[Column 1]

ANGLO-SAXON LITERATURE.

	The Anglo-Saxon was the first of eight
periods of English Literature. The Celts, who
first inhabited Britain, were driven out by
the Angles, Saxons, and Jutes, in 607 A. D.
For about two hundred years they were in an
unsettled and quarrelsome state, being divided
up into different kingdoms. Egbert of Wessex
united the nine A. S. kingdoms and called
himself king of the English. These people
had a great love of adventure and of nature,
which may be easily discovered by reading
their poetry. Poetry was their first form of
literature. Their poems were exclusively of
religion and the sea. Their poems were wild
and improbable containing accounts of dragons,
monsters, etc. This was natural. The country
they inhabited was wild and rugged in its
scenery. It is likely that their imaginations
would people the uncultivated haunts with
mythical beings.
	The first work which appeared in Britain was
Beowulf, a poem of adventure and excitement.
It was not an A. S. work as it was written on
the continent before the Anglo Saxons entered
Britain, but it was translated into A. S. by a 
gentleman of Northumbria. The first real
A. S. writing, which places the author as
Father of English Literature, is Coedmon's
Paraphrase of the Bible. It was written in 670
A. D, beginning the A. S. period of literature.
Coedmon, durning his old age, through in-
spiration (so the story of the poem's origin
says) translated the whole of the Bible into
verse. This book partly formed the founda-
tion for Milton's "Paradise Lost," for there is
a striking similarity between many passages of
the two authors. Especially is this the case in
the soliloquy of Satan.
	The A. S. poetry and language were very
different from those of modern English. There
was no metre or rhyme, but a sort of metri-
cal effect was produced by commencing the
the first two words of the first and the first
main word of the second line with the same
letter. The lines all went in pairs.
	A few poems of less importance followed
Coedmon's work. A number of sacred poems
and hymns were written by Aldhelm and
Cynewulf. The Vercelli and Exeter books

[Column 2]

contain some of the writings of these poets.
Of the war poems of A. S. literature the battle
songs of Finnesburg, Maldon, and Brununburli
are the only ones of consequence.
	Soon deeper thought became apparent among
the Anglo Saxons, for prose began to make its
appearance. The first work of prose was by
Boede (a Roman Catholic monk of Northum-
bria) which entitled him to  the name of the
Father of A. S. prose. His works were almost
entirely in Latin. Had it not been for his
translation of the Gospel of St. John, which
was his closing work, and his only work in
English, he never could have had a place in
A. S. Literature. Boede was a person of very
extensive knowledge. He was versed in science,
philosophy, literature, and art, all of which
were displayed in his writings. The real
father of A. S. prose though was AElfred the
Great. In Northumbria and the adjoining
region A. S. Literature almost died down by
the invasion of the Danes. CElfred revived it in
Wessex. He was a practical, methodical man
who was deeply interested in his people and
who was anxious concerning their welfare. He
tried in every manner to better their condi-
tion and understanding. He was not an
original writer but he made numerous transla-
tions from the Latin tongue, adding copious
notes of his own. Among others of his works
was a translation of Orpheus into English. He
wrote  on  morals, religion and  philosophy.
During the riegn of Edgar (As the Great's
son) AEthelwald came into notice as a writer.
He translated from Latin into the English
tongue. His pupil, AElfric was well known for
being the first translator of the Bible, as he
converted into English the first seven books
and Job.
	A principal prose work of ancient Briain
was the A. S. Chronicle. It began  in the
reign of AElfred the Great (in about the ninth
century) and was kept by monks from that
time until 1154. This book is very dry and
uninteresting. Its only value lies in the fact
that it was a part of A. S. Literature.
     In 1066, A. S. Literature was almost crushed
out by the victorious entrance into Britain of
the Normans, and no more writings were pro-
duced until the beginning of the next period,
when the Anglo Saxons and the Normans
combined in their efforts.
		A. T. C.


HEPHZIBAH.
XIII.

How buoyant are the hopes, that youth inspires!
	Yea, rich in faith, this land of fairy dreams,
Wherein one cherishes, such fond desires,
	That all the future bright with promise seems.

	Hepsie Hathaway went back to school with
out being especially impressed with anything
she had heard from the Elders; in fact the
girl was too much absorbed in her studies, and
her thirst for book knowledge to realize the
importance of the Gospel. While at home she
had been in a sort of bewilderment, it was all
so strange and sudden; astonished to find her
mother so changed, and her former school-mate
Lucy Reynolds, a convert to the new faith;
and surprised when she learned from the girl's
own lips that her engagement was broken off;
—she was scarcely able to grasp the situation,
and really things had not been clearly pre-
sented to her.


[Column 1]

	"How strangely things do happen in this
world Lucy?" said Hepsie to her friend, who
had come in to say good bye, and to confide
in Hepsie, whom she was sure would feel some
sympathy for her in the struggle she was mak-
ing. "I never could have believed you could
give up Henry's love for the sake of a differ-
ence in religion."
	"I gave him up for the truth," replied Lucy
quickly, "and I trust I shall be faithful to the
cause I have espoused; it is something higher
and better than our ministers preach Hepsie,
and cannot be compared with the favor of
men, or the riches of the world." "And yet
you could not convince Henry, with all your
eloquence, and your own heart pleading for
him too, and such devotion as you have always
shown him? I do not see how he could give you
up, I cannot understand him, nor you either
Lucy,—for that matter.  I thought love over-
came all obstacles, all differences, in rank, in
sentiment, and in religion."
	"You see now how mistaken you were my
little friend,—and I hope you will be a true
friend to me in this, for you can do me a great
favor if you will?" "What is it pray?" the
girl responded quickly. "Never mind now
dear, you will be coming home again soon,
and then I will tell you all." And so they
parted.
	During the journey back to her sister's
Hepsie was silent and thoughtful; as she had
heard so much in a few hours, and it had all
been so unexpected. Mr. severance kept up
an incessant talking about the "Mormons" his
wife seemingly acquiescing in what he said,
thought in a very different spirit from his.
Hepsie inwardly resented the way in which he
alluded to the Elders, knowing her mother
looked up to them with such reverence, and
had entertained them at her own house; she
thought her sister altogether too passive, but
she kept her own counsel until after they
reached their destination, and then she broke
out abruptly after the fashion of young girls,
"Hannah why didn't you speak up for mother's
friends when Samuel abused them so? What
right had he to call them hypocrites and de-
ceivers? What does he know about the Bible
compared to"—before she could finish the
sentence her amiable sister, always self pos-
sessed and equal to the occasion, said in the
mildest tone, "How old are you Hephzibah
Hathaway?" "O, I suppose you think I am
too young, to express myself as I do sometimes,
but really Hannah how do you know that these
men are not called to preach the Everlasting
Gospel? Mother says they are, and although
I don't know for myself I believe her testi-
mony." Mrs. Severance was confounded, she
had always taught Hepsie obedience, and now
she was puzzled how to answer the girl.
	At that moment Mr. Severance entered the
room and instantly guessed there was some
 unpleasantness, judging by the silence and the
peculiar expression on the countenances of his
wife and her sister.
	"What's the matter, are you two discussing
"Mormon" doctrine?" "Not exactly replied
Mrs. S. but Hepsie thinks mother is right."
"O, she does, and so I suppose these "Mormon"
Elders will be ducking her under the water
some of these cold days; I would rather see
her dead." "O, husband, remonstrated Mrs S.
how dreadful you talk, Hepsie has opinions of
her own, child as she is, and the best way is to
let the subject alone; she will forget it all the
sooner." Hepsie relapsed into silence; she
would not argue, with this man whom she so
thoroughly disliked, she wondered how Hannah
could respect him, much less love him, for to
her, his very presence was hateful.
	The conversation was not renewed for several
days, and things took their usual course.
Hepsie became more absorbed in her studies

[Column 2]

and no message came from home, about the
work, which was all this time spreading rapidly
in the town, only such a short distance away.
It was near the close of the term and Hepsie
had been very diligent, and was making every
preparation for the last day, expecting to pass a
successful examination; she had even spoken
to her sister about her dress, and manifested
considerable interest in the matter of her ap-
pearance, as visitors were exprected from other 
towns, and it would be quite an event in the
quiet life of a country school-girl; and Hepsie
was fully aware that Miss Andrews expected
her to carry off the honors and the prize.
	All the enthusiasm of her ambitious nature
was aroused, she could not sleep, she was rest-
less and excited, though she was also confident of
success. It was almost the first time in her
life when she had been over-anxious about her
wearing apparel, and she hunted up the finest
old lace, and the prettiest ribbons, to complete
her toilet. Meantime a letter came from  her
mother requesting her to come home, as an
Elder who had been baptizing a great number
in Boston, Salem and Lynne was expected and
Hepsie must hear him; this was rather trying,
but she kept the matter secret from her sister,
and went on with her preparations; somehow
she was not as light-hearted as before, and her
mother's urgent plea for her to come home
kept ringing in her ears.
	At last the morning came for the examina-
tion, the hall was beautifully decorated and
Miss Andrews in the gayest of spirits, and the
grandest of dresses Hepsie thought, welcomed
little Hepsie with a kiss as she came forward
with her usual good morning to the teacher
she so dearly loved, and as she saw her hesi-
tation, assured her how confident she was that
she would not fail. Hepsie was like one in
a dream all that day; she did not see the
sea of faces around her and the voices seemed
afar off, for all the time she fancied that she
could hear her mother calling to her to come
home, and in imagination she could see a little
group gathered for "the baptism," in the brook
close to the dear old place; the brook upon the
mossy banks of which she had sat so often
dreaming of the future, and where she had
plucked the sweet-scented violets in spring-
time—and watched the speckled trout darting
hither and thither; all these visions came and
went as she recited the lessons she had learned 
so perfectly for the occasion. Hepsie scarcely
knew how she got through that day—only
once was she self conscious, and that was when
Miss Andrews called upon her for the essay;—
she read it with all the eloquence and grace of
expression possible in one so young; her voice 
was clear and her tones finely modulated. It
was the climax, the crowning moment of the
day; the applause was more than her delicate
and over-wrought nature could stand, she
reeled and would have fallen had not a gentle-
man near noticing her nervous condition
quickly stepped forward, and supported her
until a glass of water was brought—when she
revived, and arousing herself realized the
ordeal, was passed; and summoning to her aid
that strong will power that proves so effectual
when called into action—she was herself again.
	Remarks from the visitors came next and
Hepsie heard all the comments and the criti-
cisms of these men of learning—on the work
of the young ladies, she felt embarrassed when
her efforts were praised and she ardently
wished for the exercises to close, that she
might be alone in her own room and "cry it
out." The prizes were distributed and the
school dismissed; almost every one of the
scholars were in tears, and the dignified teacher
much affected. After the school closed two or
three of the gentlemen with Miss Andrews
came forward to congratulate Hephzibah, ask-
ing Miss Andrews numerous questions as to
the plans for her future, and predicting a

[Column 3]

brilliant career for the little girl, if her health
did not fail under the strain of study.
	Hannah heard all, and treasured it up, often
telling her sister afterwards how proud she was
of her on that examination day; Hepsie her-
self cared little for it, her heart was elsewhere.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


TREATMENT OF CHILREN.

	It is now about six years since the article
"Washed to Death" was published in the EX-
PONENT defining the injurious effects of wash-
ing little children all over every day, or giving
them a daily bath, and showing that it re-
duces the vitality, takes out the electricity and
weakens the whole system of children who are
thus bathed, and recommending that they be
bathed all over but once a week, using
spirituous liquors to rub the body.
	Many since then have become convinced of
the bad effects of bathing children so much
as it is customary to do, and have adopted
and acted upon the recommendations given in
the article above mentioned, until they are 
now so firmly convinced that nothing could
induce them to return to the former habit of
giving the daily bath. Their experience has
demonstrated to them that their children are
healthier, stronger and more vigorous, their
muscles firmer, the body more plump and solid
and that they are less liable to take cold.
	The grip of the fingers and strength to stand
better is noticeable, and the weaknesses that
most children have are not known by them,
but they can better stand teething and other
ailments that children are subject to, while
the death rate with them is far less than
among those who are washed so much. They
have also a more positive and intelligent look
in the eye and a livelier expression of coun-
tenance.
	Since "Washed to Death" was published I
have explained to many mothers of my ac-
quaintance the injury done to children through
washing them so much, and many, some of
whom were quite hard to convince of the hurt-
fulness of the old custom are now strong advo-
cates of the weekly bath and grateful for the
knowledge they have attained.
	The Allwise Creator made man perfect in
his organization and the electric glow on the
skin at birth should not be washed out and
the system relaxed.
	I have made this subject a study and can
speak with assurance that the greatest injury
is done to children by bathing them so often
while they are under two years old.
	Oh! that mothers and those having the care
of children would use good common sense in
all things, study and act in comformity to the
laws of nature, then they would not need to
consult a physician so often. They would
rear their children to enjoy a full develop-
ment of vigor, health and strength that they
might fill up a long life in usefulness with-
out so much feebleness, pain and sorrow.
		S. F. ATWOOD.
	Kamas, Nov. 15, '89.


Mrs. Jenness Miller and Miss Jenness are
about to open a physical culture school in New
York, which looks to the realization of Edward
Bellamy's idea, "that the millennium for which
the world waits is to come with woman's per-
fect developent." Methods of development
which aim at mere muscular culture will be
discarded, and the drill will consist of poising,
breathing exercises and gestures, the principles
that underlie correct postures in walking,
standing, sitting and talking. The pupils will
be drilled two hours daily, five days in the
week for grace, force, firmness, health and
beauty.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


MINUTES OF OLD FOLKS PICNIC AND
BALL.

DEAR SISTER WELLS:
	For fear our friends in the North may be thinking
That because we have no brothers Goddard and Savage,
We can't have an old folk's picnic and ball,
I thought I would tell you a little about it.
For though we're a far away link in the chain,
We'er a link still and hope ever so to remain.
And we love all our old folks and honor them too.
'Twas at Mesa, November, the day twenty-nine,
Eighteen eighty nine of our Lord,
The hour was one, when the Hall bell was rung,
And the gathering quickly begun.
All the Stake was invited and I think they all came,
I mean all, who had passed the half century line—
And the widows were there in the hope to beguile
A lone hour, of their life darkened way.

	"O my Father Thou that dwellest
In the high and glorious place—"
Touched the hearts of the hearers, and wakened
Sweet thoughts of our dear Sister Snow.
B. F. Johnson the Chaplain, then opened the meeting
With prayer for the welfare of Zion.
Which was followed with singing
"Deal gently with the erring ones
We yet may win them back."
A variety progamme was then carried out—
There were speeches and songs, and a sketch of
The Mormon Battalion which was given by
Brother Brazee.

	One of our three-score and ten sang a song,
Mother Deseret we call her, and may she live long.
A serio-comic by Mabel Ann Hakes
Very much pleased the hearers, if I make no mistake
For this is from hearsay, I was not of the Band,
Who had reached the set mile stone of Wonderland,
Yet hearsay is taken in Court now I see,
When it happens to suit the said Court and his council,
Yet surely all life is a wonder or dream,
And things are but seldom what they seem.
I'm reminded of this by Judge Hake's declaration
After viewing with critic's eye the congregation at the Ball,
That there were no old folks there, unless it might be,
Philip Metz and Thomas B. Flanagan.
The time passed too swiftly and closed with the hymn
"Come let us anew our journey pursue."
And dismissed with prayer by the Chaplain.

	Then the Picnic held sway for an hour or more
With hand shake and jest by the friends of "Lang Syne."
Now what may come after from knowledge I give,
For I entered the Hall when the music tuned up,
And the call came to fill up the floor;
There were plain quadrilles and puzzling reels,
With a little waltz and Schottische:
And that dance which is vulgarly called polygamy— 
Which many indulged in and danced without fear,
For professor N—told us the Court was not here,
Perhaps I had better explain here a little,
For a change had come over the scene,
For silent and swiftly there had mingled among
The Silver, the golden and brown,
There were faces all smiles, untouched yet with care,
Whose radiance made brighter the Snowy crowns there.
We had more recitations interspersed with the dancing
More songs and more speeches too,
A fine recitation by our dear Sister Biggs,
And a fantastic polka by Aunt Lissie and Carl,
Which just brought down the house.
If you don't know Aunt Lissie, I'll just tell you here,
She is one of the genuine mothers in Zion.
With heart big enough to take in all the
Children, of this vast creation.

	I would I could speak of each one that took part,
And the lessons by each speaker given,
And pray that the lessons may never depart
From the hearts of the hearers.
"You have broke your poor old mother's heart,"
Brought tears to many eyes—
Oh would the wayward stop and think.
Ere they bow down the head with grief
That's snowy now and bent with care,
And give them joy, and not despair
May Fannie's "Voice from the poor house,"
Strike deep and take part in the struggle
To banish the demon of drink form our
Sorrow and grief stricken land.

[Column 2]

Now a word for the ones who projected
This treat for our aged, our fathers and mothers,
Much credit is due to Alma Spilsbury,
And those who so ably assisted,
May you reap what you've sown faith, honor and love.
When you stand where your guests stand today;
And the girls who with garlands entwined the Hall,
With all who aided both great and small,
To gather this ray of sunshine in
May you the blessings of heaven win.
		SEC'Y


EXTRACTS FROM A LETTER.

TO MRS. WAREHAM, MANTI:

	It has fallen in my lot to labor in the Holy
Land. The question here, as I see it, is to gain
some foothold, first of all. That being done, a
vast field lies before us. The Jews are gather-
ing in thousands. Europeans flock here, in
order to colonize the country and to earn
money. The natives, mostly Arabs, swarm
about, and for all of these something should
be done by way of enlightening them on the
subject of the coming of our Lord and the
establishment of His kingdom. I am alone
to labor here and my capacity seems to be
but small compared to the vast labor that
should be done. But I trust in God in whose
hands are all the ends of the earth
and the inhabitants thereof. If I could
succeed only in gaining one point as a basis of
future operations, I would be happy, and con-
 sider my long journey well paid. To gain a
foothold is therefore my present endeavor.
And I hope to be able to say before leaving
Jaffa, now we have one place in the Holy Land,
from which our mission can be carried on as
God shall be pleased to direct it further. But
the first work is often the hardest and most
laborious.
	Jaffa or Joppa is the place where the
Prophet Jonah went on board a ship in order
to escape his mission to Nineveh (Jon. 1: 3.)
And here, Peter had the remarkable vision,
which commissioned him to baptize Cornelius
in Cesarea. (Ag. 10.) The house where Peter
lodged when he had this vision is still shown,
and the roof of the house is reached on an
ancient stair-case, leading from the yard of
the house and to the top of it. Here also
Peter resurrected Tabitha (Ag. 9.) Christianity
seems, therefore, very easily to have gained a
strong foothold in Jaffa, and it is to be hoped
that the spirit of the ancient inhabitants still
hovers over its present population. The Catho-
lics and the Protestants have missions here
and not without success, though their means
of making converts can not always be lauded.
	Well, I must not tire you with a too long
letter. I pray for the progress of the Relief
Society and that the spirit of God may be
poured out upon all the Saints.
		A brother in the Gospel,
			J. M. SJODAHL.
	Jaffa, Palestine, Sept. 11, 1889.


CORRESPONDENCE.

	Parowan Jan. 6, 1890.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	In perusing your paper I do not see our
vicinity represented by the Relief, Mutual or
Primary Association therefore will take it
upon myself to inform our sister organiza-
tions of our progress in the grand cause that
stretches into eternity. The P. A. of this
Stake are generally taking a lively interest and
doing a good work toward inclining the twig
rightly and capacitating the tender mind to
grasp certain truths preparatory to the pro-
motion to the higher grade (viz) Mutual Im-
provement Association.
	On the last evening of the old year the P.


A. of this ward gave an entertainment con-
sisting of dialogues, recitations, music social
and instrumental etc. which was deserving of
great praise to both officers and members, also
a true exhibition of the bright intellect and
noble spirits given the children of the chosen
people of God; never in my life did those
beautiful words of the Savior seem more im-
pressive and appropriate. "For of such is the
kingdom of Heaven," my heart seemed over-
flowing with love and admiration for their in-
nocence and aptness causing my reflections to
rest upon the glorious mission given to woman
by a loving Father. Are we performing it
faithfully? do we realize what is expected of
us? or are we neglectful and allowing our abi-
lities and time to pass uselessly? Oh sisters
let us each strive unceasingly to do a just
part by the precious jewels entrusted to our
care for a season, and never be obliged to sadly
ponder upon "what might have been."
	Lest I usurp too much of your valuable
time and paper I will say au revoir.
	May Heaven's best gifts be yours.
		E. A. CRANE WATSON.
			P. A. Stake Sect.


NOTES AND NEWS:

	The King of Siam has just married twenty
new wives.
	Madam Carnot gave a Christmas party to
four hundred poor children at the Elysees in
Paris.
	Women have been admitted to the bar in
all the New England States except New 
Hampshire and Vermont. 
	Miss Annie Peterson has been awarded the
first degree of doctor of music which any lady
has gained at the Royal University of Dublin.
	Mrs. Leland Stanford, of California, has ob-
tain the permission of the Emperor William II
to have a copy made of the "Sistine Madonna"
in Dresden gallery.
	Miss Amelia B. Edwards will publish an
article in the January Century, giving the first
popular description of the recent extraordinary
discoveries in Bubastis, Egypt.
	Three Austrian women, sisters, have re-
ceived the degree of Doctor of Medicine, at
Berne, Switzerland, and two of them are now
practising in New York.
	A Woman's Press Club has been formed in
New York, with Mrs. D. G. Croly, ("Jennie
June") as President, Mrs. Lippincott ("Grace
Greenwood") First Vice President, and Mrs.
Mary E. Bryan, Second Vice President.
	Roberty Browning and Mrs. Browning were
among the early advocates of equal rights for
women in England, and while others are
mourning for him as the great poet, the advo-
cates of woman suffrage will sorrow for him
also as the friend of women. So says the
Woman's Journal and so say we.
	The sphere of woman continues to enlarge.
The latest evidence comes from Connecticut,
where a young woman has just been given a
license as a dispensing druggist. It deserves
to be added that she not only got her license
but passed the best examination that has yet
been had before the examining board.—Boston
Herald.
	At the University of Zurich last year twenty-
nine women studied medicine, fourteen philos-
ophy, and two political economy. In London
there were forty-eight women medical students.
In Paris there were one hundred and eight, of
whom eighty three were Russians, eleven Eng-
lish, seven French, three Americans, two
Austrians, one Roumanian, one Turkish.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT

WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS,	Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah Terms:
one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months, 50 cts. No
reduction made for clubs. City papers delivered by mail,
extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space, one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal discount
to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, No. 25 E., South Temple Street, second
gate east of Deseret News Office. Business hours from 10 a.m
to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
		PUBLISHER WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
			SALT LAKE CITY UTAH.

	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
Second Class Matter.

SALT LAKE CITY,	JANUARY 15, 1890.


EDITORIAL NOTES.

	The death of Dowager Empress Augusta of
Germany the wife of the late Emperor seems to
have been quite a sad event, although her years
were many. Her funeral was almost as elaborate
a state affair, as that of her royal husband.
	The Primaries of the People's Party will be
held in the several wards of the City Monday
evening Jan. 20, at 7. 30 p. m. for the selection of
delegates to the Convention which will be held
Monday the 27th, in the 14th ward Assembly
Rooms. A very great deal depends on the Pri-
maries. The delegates should be carefully and
wisely selected.
	The People's Party made a fine showing in the
torch light procession on Friday night Jan. 10,
when they turned out from the several wards in
full force, for a sort of general review. The
cavalry, marching clubs, guitar and mandolin club
and juveniles all in suitable dress with torch
lights, parading and keeping the best of time in
regular order presented quite a magnificent ap-
pearance. The music was excellent, selections
good, and the flags and banners with the brilliant
lighting of the torches and electric light with the
"beautiful snow" produced a gorgeous effect quite
dazzling. Each ward had a banner of its own, of
different design with appropriate motto, signifi-
cant of the cause of justice, equity and political
rights; some of the banners were very expensive,
made of costly material and all were very hand-
some. Everything was done in order, no carous-
ing or disturbance of any kind. Altogether the
affair was a decided success.
	The Utah Legislature met in the City Hall in
this City on Monday Jan. 13. at 2. p. m. and ef-
fected an organization of both the Council and the
House. Hon. F. S. Richards was elected Presi-
dent of the Council and F. J. Cannon Chief Clerk,
W. L. Halliday enrolling and engrossing clerk.
Other officers were also elected—Secretary Sells,
administered the oath to the newly elected of-
ficers, and prayer was offered by the Chaplain.
A committee of two Hon. A. Hatch and Hon. E.
Benner were appointed by the Council to wait
upon the Governor and inform him that the As-
sembly was organized.
	The lower House of the Legislature was or-
ganized with Hon. James Sharp Chairman, R. S.
Campbell Chief Clerk, John Boyden enrolling and
engrossing clerk. The oath of office was ad-
ministered by the Secretary, Hon. J. N. Kimball
and Hon. S. R. Thurman were appointed on the
part of the House to notify the Governor that the
Assembly was prepared to receive any communi-
cation be might have to make.
	After the transaction of some necessary busi-
ness the Committee that had been appointed to
wait upon the Governor returned and reported


that His Excellency was prepared to deliver his
message to the Assembly at such hour as might
be designated; four o'clock of the same day was
decided upon. At a few minutes past four o'clock
the members of the Council were seated in the
Hall of the House. The roll of each House was
called and the Chaplain of the Council offered
prayer. His Excellency the Governor was an-
nounced by a member of the Council Committee.
As the Governor entered the Hall the members
rose in token of respect. Pres. Richards an-
nounced that His Excellency would now deliver
to the Assembly his message. Governor Thomas
then read the document, which covers the ground
for the Legislature to work upon.


[Column 1]

A GOLDEN WEDDING.

EDITOR WOMAN'S EXPONENT:
	Knowing that you and the readers of your
valuable paper really esteem very highly the ex-
ample of a well-spent life, and rejoice in the
merit won by the truly good, I take the liberty of
furnishing you a brief account of a notable in-
stance of family affection, reverence and respect.
	Just before the close of the past year the
golden wedding of Patriarch Rosel Hyde and his
wife Mary Ann, arrived and was celebrated at
their home in Kaysville by the assembling of their
three sons and four daughters with their wives
and husbands and several esteemed and valued
friends to do honor to the occasion. A more
heartfelt reverence for their great worth could
hardly have been realized. Father and mother
Hyde have proven themselves well worthy of the
profound respect manifest in the feeling tributes
of regard which welled up in the hearts of their
family. Not merely kindness but intense feeling
was exhibited in the greetings, and good wishes
expressed. The occasion was one, the recollec-
tion of which will never be effected. Here were
parents, fifty years of whose life in the duty of
marriage as husband and wife, father and mother
were spread out before the intimate criticism of
their intelligent children, now themselves grown
to the confines of the sere and yellow leaf, and
arrived at maturity of judgement, and yet not a
scene recalled which gave a reflection of injustice
or a wish that it had not been. Not passive but
active respect and a sincere wish that the child-
ren's lives might be as just, as prudent and worthy,
as the lives of the honored parents, was the pre-
vailing sentiment. And the following extract of
an address by one of the sons was heartly en-
dorsed:

"And the inspiration we imbibed from your counsels good
	and wise
Has kept us firm thus far in life to the goal before our
	eyes.
And whate'er of good and noble deeds we've done or yet
	may do
We've had the teaching first and the example set by you."

	Yon cannot yield much of your valuable space
to this item so I will not give details, but simply
say that the ample stores of Father Hyde fur-
nished turkeys, beef, mutton, pork &c. all of his
own raising, with other necessary items all
raised and made on his own premises, and that
the company assembled from the extreme north
of Cache Valley, the extreme west of Tooele
County and intervening parts, were royally enter-
tained and such a family reunion it is the privi-
lege of few persons to attend.
	Father Hyde is son of the late Heman Hyde of
the 13th, Ward of this City, and brother to the late
William Hyde of Hyde Park Cache, Co., and of
Patriarch Charles W. Hyde. Mother Hyde is the
sister of the late Elvira Smith Holmes who was
one of the plural wives of the Prophet Joseph.
	Grandma Elizabeth L. Hyde 79 years of age
composed and read the following;

[Column 2]

	Dedicated to Rosel and Mary Ann Hyde on
their Golden Wedding day:

	Five decades are past and gone
		Since you were young and blithe and gay,
	Then you agreed life's joys to share
		And chose your loyal wedding day.

	Eight sons and daughters good and true
		Are come from near and far away
	To greet their honored parents dear
		Upon their Golden Wedding day.

	A poet rare with golden pen
		Could scarce your worthy deeds portray,
	Yet I this simple offering bring
		On this your Golden Wedding day.

Yours respectfully
	H. H. S.


FOR THE EXPONENT.
	WOMAN'S PRIVILEGES.

	A woman's journal may very properly discuss
and advocate woman's rights, and she may lay
claim to them all as legitimately hers; more than
this, it may with equal propriety investigate what
are termed the rights of man, as relates to the
woman. In these she is equally interested as one
of the participants.
	Man from early ages of the world's history has
claimed superiority, and has oftimes allowed that
claim to assume the relations of master and slave,
and woman, man's helpmate, has been subjected
to menial servitude by her lordly master.
	The civilization of the nineteenth century has
given her an elevation more consistent with her
being and calling. But still the relics of the past
are not altogether discarded in her favor.
	It may be said and truly too, that it was the
fiat of the Creator that "he shall rule over her,"
in the relation of husband and wife, but what is
the object and nature of this rule—this right under
God to govern and control.
	Rule or government from this source never im-
plies subjugation, but always equalization. The
object of rule under the divine government is to
make the governed partakers of the blessings,
powers and privileges of those by whom they are
governed. The law of love, is the only rule that
ever gave man the right of control over any
human being. This law of love never degrades,
nor works any ill to another; never will deprive
any one of those rights with which nature and
nature's God have endowed them. It is the law
of Life.
	Even in the relation of husband and wife, that
which the nearest extinguishes individuality of
any relation that can be formed,the woman does not
neither can she lose her entity. She is still a con-
scious intelligent and an accountable being, pos-
sessing moral judgments of right and wrong,
which must influence her life, and will prompt her
acts, for which she is as strictly held accountable
as is the man for his; and her rights, even in
this relation, may not be disregarded nor be in
any-wise infringed.
	In this relation, man and woman may become
founders of a kingdom. All kingdoms have a law
given them, and all laws have their bounds and
conditions; and who can say that the woman is
not equally interested with the man in what those
laws shall be that are to govern the domain which
she has been the instrument in creating, which
exists with her and would not have existed without
her. She evidently has the right to a voice in
the making of those laws, and who shall deprive
her of that right? In and through her are de-
veloped the powers of the man.
	These principles may have an application outside
of the family circle. If they are facts to be regarded
there, they may be entitled to like regard in the
community, in society, in the state, or in the
nation. The family is the foundation of these


conditions of the race, and it is only just that wo-
man be recognized in her true character, and be
permitted to enjoy the exercise of all her rights
as an accountable free agent; in all her associa-
tions with the family of man to which she has
been assigned by her Creator.
	For man to recognize woman in her true and 
proper relation should be as pleasurable as
desirable. To associate her with all that is
elevating and profitable to man, seems to be her
legitimate place, both in social and spiritual de-
velopment. Not even a hope of future happiness
is worth cherishing that she is not identified with
in its realization.
	But while in fact she is a part of man, she is an
entity of herself, of which she cannot be deprived.
 The fact that the fundamental elements of one
being can never become those of another deter-
mines this entity, and in the light of this fact she
must be considered as well as in her relation to
man.
	As a free agent possessing a free-will she must
in her rights be respected. As a conscious being,
accountable for the wrongs of life, and susceptible
of the happiness derived from right doing, she
must not be infringed upon in that on which her
happiness depends. Man may claim her as his
own, but she is comparatively valueless to him in
any other sphere than that for which she was de-
signed.
	There is nothing that affects the happiness of
man in which the woman is not interested; no toil
or sorrow she is not willing to share. Her very
nature adapts her to her sphere, fitting her for all
its requirements. Her relations are necessary to
man's development, and while the laws and condi-
tions of her being are observed and respected by
man as her ruler, she is no failure in the purpose
of her creation, and is the glory—the crowning
gift of God to man.
		S. W. RICHRADS.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

UTAH W. S. A.

	The Annual Meeting of the Woman Suffrage
Association of Utah was held in the Social Hall,
Saturday Jan. 11, 1890, commencing at 3 p.m.,
Vice Pres. Mrs Nellie R. Webber in the chair.
On the platform with her was the Ch. Ex. Com
Mrs. M. Y. Dougall and Mrs. Ann D. Groesbeck
Mrs. C. H. Clayton Secretary and the Treasurer
Miss Margie Dwyer were also present. Prayer
was offered by the Chaplain of the day Mrs. E.
B. Wells. Mrs Webber said that the painful 
duty devolved upon her of stating in consequence
of the death of the daughter of Mrs. Alder the
Acting President of the Association, she could
not be present, and therefore she occupied the
chair; spoke most tenderly of the sudden decease
of Miss Nettie Alder,and expressed in a few well-
chosen words her regret, and the sympathy she
felt for those so sadly bereaved.
	The secretary then read the minutes of the Con-
vention held in October last, which were ap-
proved. Secretary and Treasurer's report for the
year were then read and submitted for approval
and accepted.
	Mrs. Webber stated that in order to transact
the business in hand it would be necessary to
move that the rules they had heretofore adopted
be suspended during the afternoon a motion was
then made to that effect and carried unanimously.
	Secretary read articles 3, 4, and 9, of the By-
Laws and Mrs. E. B. Wells moved the amend-
ment of article 3 so as to include an Assistant Sec-
retary, seconded and carried.
	Mrs. E. S. Richards moved the amendment of
article 4 that the initiation fee be 50 cts. instead
of 25 cts. seconded and carried.
	Mrs. M. I. Horne moved that the amendment
of article 9 be abolished and that it stand in its
original form, viz. that regular meetings be held

[Column 2]

once a month instead of once in three months as
per amendment; seconded and carried.
	The Chairman thought owing to the sad be-
reavement of the Acting Pres. Resolutions of
sympathy and condolence should be drawn.
	On motion of Mrs. S. M. Kimball a Committee of
three were suggeted to prepare suitable Resolu-
tions.
	A motion was made and carried that the Chair
appoint the Committee on Resolutions, the Chair
named Mrs. E. B. Wells, Mrs. E. S. Richarhs,
Mrs. M. I. Horne.
	The election of officers for the ensuing year was
the next business transacted.
	Dr. R. B. Pratt nominated Mrs. Sarah M.
Kimball President of the Utah Ter. W. S. A.
seconded and carried. Mrs. Jessie J. Jones nomi-
nated Mrs. Emily S. Richards First Vice Pres.
seconded and carried. Mrs. Nellie Little nomi-
nated Mrs. Ann D. Groesbeck, 2d. Vice Pres. sec.
and carried. Miss Rachel Edwards nominated
Mrs. Caroline E. Dye, 3rd. Vice Pres. sec. and
carried. Mrs. E. B. Wells nominated Mrs. Phebe
Y. Beattie, Ch. Ex. Com. sec. and carried. Mrs.
P. Y. Beattie nominated Miss R. Edwards, Secre-
tary, sec. and carried. Mrs. M. Y. Dougall nomi-
nated Mrs. Julia C. Taylor, Cor. Sec. sec. and
carried. Mrs. A. D. Groesbeck nominated
Miss Margie Dwyer, Treasurer sec. and carried.
The following ladies were nominated and voted
upon separately as members of the Ex. Com.
Mesdames Cornelia H. Clayton, Margaret Mitchell,
Nellie Little, Theresa Hills, May Talmage. It
was decided that the Secretary be allowed to
choose her assistant.
	Mrs. E. B. Wells addressing the Chair asked
that Resolutions of Respect be drawn for Mrs.
M. J. Tanner, Pres. of Utah Co. W. S. A. re-
cently deceased. On motion of Dr. R. B. Pratt, the 
same Committee were instructed to draw both
Resolutions.
	The Committee on Resolutions withdrew and
during their absence Dr. R. B. Pratt read a
written address, which will be given in the next
issue of the paper, Dr. E. S. Barney made an
impromptu speech.
	Mrs. S. M. Kimball took the chair: she felt
rather reluctant to accept the position to which
she had been elected, but intended to take hold of
the work with some system. Appreciated the
labors of the retiring officers, felt they had done
much good and were deserving of the gratitude of
all interested. Suggested that each member read
over six times the Constitution and that the Asso-
ciation take up the study of municipal govern-
ment so as to understand the nature and character
of its laws and requirements, etc., and this would
lead on and on until there would be an under-
stanning of all departments of government. This
would lead to our advancement and the enlarg- 
ing of our capacities. Remarked that she had
suggested to Mrs. Horne that the general meeting
of the ladies to be held next Saturday be turned
into a suffrage meeting and asked an expression
of the views of those present.
	Dr. Pratt acquiesced in the movement.
	On motion of Miss Edwards vote of thanks
was tendered to the officers of the past year.
	Mrs. Webber expressed herself in favor of the
suggestion made by Mrs. Kimball, read a portion
of a Circular and thought that to accomplish any-
thing creditable it would be necessary to have a
large enrollment of members, also sufficient means 
to send Delegates to the Convention at Washing-
ton to represent our own organization instead of
having others appointed to represent us.
	Mrs. Dougall, Mrs. Dye, Mrs. Lucy W. Kim-
ball and Dr. Maggie C. Shipp, each made in
teresting and appropriate remarks in brief.
	The Committee returned and Mrs. E. B. Wells
in behalf of the Com., submitted the following:

	At the regular meeting of the Utah Ter. Wo-

[Column 3]

man Suffrage Association held Jan. 11, 1890 in
the Social Hall in Salt Lake City the following
Resolutions were submitted:
	Resolved,—that the officers and members of
this Association in annual session assembled,
hereby tender to Mts. Lydia D. Alder their sin-
cere thanks for the valuable services she has 
rendered the Woman Suffrage Assoication of
Utah during the past year as the Acting Presi-
dent,
	And we do hereby earnestly express our grate-
ful appreciation of her arduous labors and the grand
efforts she has so cheerfully made for the ad-
vancement and success of this organization.

	Resolved, further that the officers and members
of this Association extend their heartfelt sym-
pathy and condolence to their late Acting Presi-
dent, Mrs. Lydia D. Alder, who has by the hand
of an over-ruling Providence been called to sus-
tain such a severe affliction in the recent death of
a loving and affectionate daughter, and,
	Resolved, that we do hereby desire to most
fervently express the deepest sentiments of regret,
and sorrow for the mother and family who have
thus been called to part with one so near and
dear; and we solemnly beseech our Father in
heaven, to pour out the comforting influences of
His Holy Spirit in this hour of sorrow and mourn-
ing over this sad bereavement.
	Resolved: That a copy of these Resolutions
be placed upon the records of this Association
and a copy be forwarded to Mrs. Lydia D. Alder,
and that copies be sent to the 	WOMAN'S EXPONENT
and others papers for publication.
		EMMELINE B. WELLS,
		EMILY S. RICHARDS,
		M. ISABELLA HORNE,
			Committee.

	Resolutions of Respect and Condolence adopted
by the Woman Suffrage Association of Utah Ter.
Jan. 11, 1890, to the memory of Mrs. Mary J.
Tanner, late President of the Woman Suffrage
Association of Utah Co., who died in Provo Jan.
8, 1890.
	Whereas,—It has pleased our Heavenly Father
to call from our midst by a sudden edict Mrs. M.
J. Tanner. who since the organization of the W.
S. A. of Utah Co., has served efficiently as
President of that branch of the W. S. A. of Utah
Ter., and,
	Whereas:—We feel heartily desirous and in
duty bound while acknowledging with due rever-
ence the Divine source of this call, to express to
all branches of this Association our sorrow and
also the respect in which Mrs. Tanner was held,
	Therefore:—Be it Resolved by the W. S. A. of
Utah in regular session assembled that we have
sustained in the death of Mrs. M. J. Tanner the
loss of an earnest laborer and an efficient officer
in our cause.
	Resolved:—That we hereby express our heart-
felt sorrow and sympathy for the immediate 
members of the Utah County branch of this Asso-
ciation whose chief officer has been taken away.
	Resolved:—That we extend our sincere con-
dolences to the bereaved family of the deceased.
	Resolved:—That these Resolutions be placed
upon the records of the Association and copies
thereof be forwarded to the family of the departed,
to the WOMAN'S EXPONENT, the Utah En-
quirer and other papers for publication.
		EMMELINE B. WELLS,
		EMILY S. RICHARDS,
		M. ISABELLA HORNE,
			Committee.
	On motion of Mrs. Webber the Resolutions
were accepted, and she also moved that they be
published in the EXPONENT and other papers and
that a copy be sent to Mrs. Alder, and placed
upon the records of the Association.


On motion of Dr. Pratt the Resolutions were
endorsed as read.
	An invitation was extended to all to join the
Association, and they were informed it was time
to renew memberships. Meeting adjourned for
one month, prayer by the Chaplain.
		CORNELIA H. CLAYTON, Secretary.


﻿WOMANS EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

			   CONSTITUTION
				OF	THE
NATIONAL-AMERICAN WOMAN SUFFRAGE AS-
			       SOCIATION.

				ARTICLE I.
	The name of this Association shall be THE 
NATIONAL-AMERICAN WOMAN SUFFRAGE AS-
SOCIATION.

				ARTICLE II.
	The object of this Association shall be to secure
protection in their right to vote to the women
citizens of the United States by appropriate 
National and State Legislation.
	
				ARTICLE III.
	Section I. All citizens of the United States
subscribing to this Constitution and paying not
less than one dollar annually into the treasury of 
this Association shall become members thereof,
and shall be entitled to attend all its meetings, to
participate in all discussions that may arise and 
to receive reports and other documents published
by it. 
	Section 2. The payment of fifty dollars ($50.00)
into the treasury of this Association shall con-
stitute any citizen of the United States a Life
Member of the Association, with all the privi-
leges belonging to the regular annual members.
				ARTICLE IV.
	Section I. The officers of this Association 
shall be a President, a Vice President at Large, a 
Recording Secretary, a Corresponding Secretary,
a Treasurer, a Chairman of the Executive Com-
mittee and two Auditors. The officers named in
this Section shall be nominated by an informal 
ballot at a business session of the Annual Con-
vention of the Association. Three persons re-
ceiving the highest number of votes for any
office shall be considered the nominees of the 
Convention for that office, and the will of the As-
sociation shall be taken by a formal ballot.
	Section 2. Wherever State and Territorial
Associations auxiliary to the National-American
Association exist, the Presidents of such Asso-
ciations shall be considered Vice Presidents of
the National-American Association, representing
therein their respective States and Territories.
	Section 3. Each State or Territorial auxiliary
Association shall elect from its membership one
person to serve on the Executive Committee of
the National American Association.
	Section 4. The President of the NATIONAL-
AMERICAN WOMAN SUFFRAGE ASSOCIATION
shall appoint a Vice President to represent on its 
Executive Board any State or Territory where no
State or Territorial Association exists auxiliary to 
the National-American Association. 
	The officers enumerated in the preceding Sec-
tions of this Article shall constitute the Executive
Committee of this Association; of these officers,
fifteen shall constitute a quorum for the transac-
tion of business.
	Section  6. The Executive Committee shall 
elect annually from the veterans of our cause ten
or more Honorary Vice presidents.
				ARTICLE V.
	This Constitution may be amended by a ma-
jority vote at any annual meeting, notice of the
amendment having been given at any preceding 
annual meeting. 
				BY-LAW I.
For the accomplishment of the object specified

[Column 2] 

in Article II of its Constitution, this Association
shall seek to concentrate the efforts of all the ad-
vocates of woman suffrage in the United States by
the following methods: (1) It shall hold annually
in Washington one meeting of delegates (accord-
ing to the basis of representation stated in By-
Law II) for the transaction of business, the elec-
tion of officers and the advocacy of its principles;
and it may hold one or more other Conventions
annually for the advocacy of its principles. (2) It 
shall form State or Territorial Associations 
auxiliary to itself in every State and Territory 
where none such now exist, and, recognizing the
authority of its auxiliaries in their respective 
States and Territories, it shall promote their local
work by every means in its power. (3) It shall 
publish tracts, speeches and other documents, and
shall furnish the same to State and local Suffrage
Associations and to individuals at actual cost.
(4) It shall prepare and circulate petitions to 
Congress and to State and Territorial Legisla-
tures on behalf of the political and civil equality
of women. (5) It may employ one or more or-
ganizers and lecturers, and take such other 
measures for the promotion of woman suffrage 
as the Executive Committee shall determine
upon, subject always to the will of the Associa-
tion.
	BY-LAW II.—BASIS OF REPRESENTATION.
	Section I. Any State or Territorial Woman
Suffrage Association, and (in a State or Territory 
where there is no State or Territorial Suffrage
organization auxiliary to the National American
Woman Suffrage Association) any local Woman
Suffrage Association may become auxiliary to the
National-American Woman Suffrage Association
by paying into the treasury of the National-Ameri-
can Association annually twenty-five cents (25) 
per member of its entire membership.
	Section 2. It shall be the duty of the Treasurer
of each auxiliary Association to send to the
Treasurer of the National-American Woman
Suffrage Association, before January 1st in each
year, a list certified to by its President or Record-
ing Secretary of the members of said organiza-
tion for the current year. 
	Section 3. Every such Auxiliary Association
shall be entitled to send three delegates to the 
Annual Convention of the National-American
Woman Suffrage Association, and one delegate
in addition for every twenty-five members above 
a membership of fifty. The delegates actually 
present may cast the whole number of votes to
which the Auxiliary Association is entitled.
	Section 4. Any State or Territorial Woman
Suffrage Association which is not auxiliary to the 
National-American Association may send one 
delegate to the annual meeting of the National-
American Association.
	Section 5. All officers of the National-Ameri-
can Suffrage Association shall be ex-officio dele-
gates at large, and every such officer shall be en-
titled to one vote in all the business meetings of 
the Association.
	Section 6. Where there are two State Societies 
in one State, both of them auxiliary to the
National-American, the President of each shall 
be a Vice President of the National-American;
and each shall elect its own representative on the 
National-American Executive Board, and be en-
titled to one delegate for each twenty-five mem-
bers.
		BY-LAW III.—CREDENTIALS.
	All delegates (except the delegates at Large
specified in Section 5 of By-Law II) must present
credentials properly signed by the President and 
Recording Secretary of the organization repre-
sented. Membership cards properly signed by 
the Treasurer of the National-American Woman
Suffrage Association shall serve as credentials
for the members of that body who are not dele-
gates from other bodies.

[Column 3]

				BY-LAW	IV.
	The Executive Committee of the National-
American Woman Suffrage Association shall hold
one session preceding the opening of each annual
Convention in Washington and another session 
after the conclusion of such Convention; and the
Committees having in charge the arrangements for
the Annual Convention shall always take cogniz-
ance of such meetings of the Executive Committee
and make provision for them.
				BY-LAW V.
	The decisions reached by the Executive Com-
mittee shall be presented in the form of recom-
mendations at the business sessions of the Con-
vention.
				BY-LAW VI. 
	Every delegate shall be entitled to one vote on 
all questions, but only on the election of officers
shall the delegates be entitled to cast the full vote 
to which the organizations represented by them 
are entitled. 
			    BY-LAW VII.
	The Committee on Resolutions shall consist
of one person from each State and Territory
elected by the delegation from the organization 
represented. 
			  BY-LAW VIII.
	At the concluding business session of each
Annual Convention the President of this Associa-
tion shall appoint the following Committees, each 
Committee to consist of three persons, viz.: a
Committee on Credentials to have in charge the
credentials of delegates to the next Annual Con-
vention; a Committee on Program to arrange the
program for the next Annual Meeting, and a 
Congressional Committee to have in charge the
direct Congressional work during the year which
shall intervene between the time of its appoint-
ment and the next Annual Convention in Wash-
ington.
				BY-LAW	IX.
	The report of Treasurer up to the 1st of January
preceding the Annual Washington Convention
shall be read at the first business session of that
body.


SALT LAKE STAKE
	The Quarterly Conference of the Relief So-
ciety of Salt Lake Stake was held in the 14th
Ward Assembly Rooms December 19th 1889,
Mrs. M. Isabella Horne presiding. On the
stand were seated Pres. Zina D. H. Young,
Mrs. B. W, Smith, Mrs S. M. Kimball, and
Mrs. E. Howard the Secretary. Meeting
opened with singing.
		"We thank Thee O, God for a prophet,"
	Prayer by Mrs. Margaret McMaster. Singing,
		"Do what is right the day dawn is breaking,"
	Roll called 15 presidents, 12 counselors 2
teachers responded. Verbal reports in brief
given as follows 2nd ward Mrs. McGreger,
3rd Mrs. Frances Smith, 6th Mrs. E. Britton,
8th Mrs. E. B. Fletcher, 9th Mrs. M. Barrow,
10th Mrs. E. Paul, 11th Mrs. McMaster. 12th
Mrs. Julia Druce, 13th Mrs. L. A. Wells, 14th
Mrs. M. W.  Wilcox, 15th Mrs. M. E. Gray,
16th Mrs. Diana Reid, 17th Mrs. B. W. Smith,
18th Mrs. Ellen Barton, 19th Mrs. Ann E.
Neal, 20th Mrs Sabine 22nd Mrs R. Whipple,
Union, Mrs. Cox.
	Pres. Horne then made some instructive re-
marks upon the duties of those holding official
positions, and also to mothers in regard to the
training of children while they were very
young. Conference then adjourned until 2 p.m.
singing Doxology. Benediction by Mrs. B. W.
Smith.
	Afternoon Session: Meeting opened with
singing,
		"O my Father thou that  dwellest,"


Prayer was offered by Pres. Zina D. H.
Young, singing, 	
		"O, God we raise to Thee,"
	Verbal reports were continued—1st, Ward,
Mrs. M. Steele, 7th, Mrs. Cooper, Draper, Mrs.
C. Smith, Herriman, Mrs. Crane, Sandy, Mrs.
Wilson North Jordan, Mrs. Webster, Bluff-
dale, Mrs. Madsen, Brighton, Mrs Ottilie
Schonfeld, Sugar House, Mrs. Sarah Gibson.
	After the reports were given Pres. Geo. Q.
Cannon addressed the assembly, he stated that
he fully realized the importance of the or-
ganization, of the Relief Society, and what an
immense amount of good could be effected by
the sisters, “we have not time to be idle, there
is no limit to the field of good you occupy, all
the best talent can be put to use; we have a
large number of young people among us. On
the mothers depends the training of the child-
ren, and the development of the characters of
their offspring; they can impress on their minds
ideas that will be for future use. My parents
were not members of any sectarian system,
still my mother was strictly religious, inclined
that way. One of her strict precepts was to
keep the Sabbath Day, I have tried to live
to this, if I had my wish we would have
no work done on that day, no cooking, no working
of our animals, everything to be at rest. It is
a day for rest and worship: we ought not to
poison the minds of our children by unwise re-
marks against any principle of our religion.
the seeds of infidelity have been sown by un-
wise remarks; we all carry an influence with
us; can we not feel when making a visit in
some families a spirit of quiet and peace, and
if you feel bad when going in you leave happy
and at ease, in other places you will have the
opposite feeling; the atmosphere we carry with
us will be felt, we should shun evil society and
evil deeds. I feel I ought to speak in plain-
ness upon the associations of young people be-
fore marriage; it is a wide field for your
training. Chastity should be preserved as life,
far better for a girl to die than lose her virtue,
better is it for a man to die than injure a
daughter of Eve. It is from inexperience
often that such things happen, we should teach
them to look on such as next to murder, long
courtships are wrong, it leads to great evil.
I speak of this as a timely topic, create a public
opinion against long courtships, and get a
feeling of early marriages, it is a wrong idea
for our girls to get, that they must have every
luxury before marriage, love makes a desert
place a palace. It is all well enough if the
parents can get the style for their children,
but if they can't let the young people get by
degrees, the comforts of life and they will ap-
preciate them; if we would raise a healthy
race let us be chaste, mothers teach your
daughters and fathers their sons these things;
let us impress upon our children the necessity
of keeping from beverages that are not fit for
us to use, habit grows stronger as we grow old;
let us foster good thoughts, good words and
help make an improvement in ourselves and
others. I would like if we had schools in our
Territory for educating our girls in every
habit of industry, sewing, cooking, housekeep-
ing; there is no man or woman that is not im-
proved by practical labor. This is a fact that
people can be made cross or happy by cook-
ing, make a nice clean table neat and tidy, it
is little things that contribute to woman’s
happiness; we have the best fruits, the best
flowers, the best vegetables, that many women in
other countries would be very glad to get
We can all improve on the gifts God gives us,
we can develop those gifts if we try, and edu-
cate ourselves in these things; some of you
thought you could not speak in public, but you
have found out that you can by seeking to de-
velop your gift.
	Pres. Z. D. H. Young said “this is the work
of woman, our Heavenly Father sent us His

[Column 2]

Son to show us the mercy we should show to
each other. We expected our souls to be fed
this day, we have been, let us not be dis-
couraged, there are bright days before us, let
us carry home with us the good teaching we
have received from Pres. Cannon, may we all
be impressed to help in this great work.
	Mrs. B, W. Smith: “I pray that God may
bless all the Latter-day Saints; this is a fast
age, everything is rolling on most gloriously."
	Mrs. S. M Kimball: “A great deal of good
has been said, we would love each other more
if we knew each other better, Brother Cannon
has said we each of us have a spirit influence,
we can detect influences when passing by habi-
tations where the spirit of God dwells.”
	Pres. Horne: “Let us put in practice what
Brother Cannon has taught us today and be
benifitted by what we have heard,” she then re-
lated an incident in her experience which was
very interesting and instructive. Women
have great influence, we are entering upon a new
era in our history. I hope we will all as a
people keep the solemm fast which has been ap-
pointed for us to attend. Brother Woodruff
sent his best regards and prayers to the sisters
by Brother Cannon.
	Conference adjourned for three months sing-
ing,
		“Guide us O, thou great Jehovah."
	Benediction by Pres. Geo. Q. Cannon.
						E. HOWARD, Sec’y.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


LEHI W. S. A.
	Pursuant to a call the ladies of Lehi met
in the Relief Society Hall Thurs. Dec. 19,
1889 to organize a branch of the W. S. A
Mrs. Rebecca Standring was elected tempo-
rary chairman and Mrs Sarah T. Evans Secy.
Mrs. Standring announced the object of the
meeting.
	Singing. “My country ’tis of thee." Prayer
by the chaplain Mrs. M. A. Comer.
	The secretary then read the call after which
the following officers were elected. Mrs. Mary
Ann Webb, Vice Pres. Mrs. Sara T. Evans,
Secy. Mrs. Laura Cutler, Chairman, Mrs. M.
M.	Gaddie, Josephine Brown, Mary Ann
Standring, Sarah A. Karrew, executive com-
mittee.
	The secretary read the constitution of the
N. W. S. A. which was unanimously adopted.
The by laws and regulations as adopted in
Utah Co. were also read and adopted. 
	Vice Pres. M. A. Webb thanked the assembl-
age for the honor that had been conferred upon
her. It was one duty to convert the men as
well as the women to the necessity of the
women having the franchise. We in Utah
have had the franchise and can appeal to his-
tory to prove that we never abused it, but used
it wisely and intelligently always standing
bravely for the right. As mothers it is our
duty to understand politics. We should be
able to instruct our sons and daughters that
they may understand their rights and privi-
leges as American citizens. Believed the day
was not far distant when the women would en-
joy their rights of the ballot.
	The following address was then delivered
by Mrs. Mary M. Gaddie:—
	Mrs. President, Ladies and Gentlemen:—
I stand before you to address you on the sub-
ject of women suffrage. I am proud to see
the women feel that they have rights. Let us
go to work with a determination never to give
up until we gain those rights.
	I have studied this subject and asked my-
self the question. “Why are women not
allowed to vote as well as men.” There is but
one answer. The women have never asked
 for the right. It is true that a few noble
women in the nation have been working for
it many years but a large majority have

[Column 2]
thrown their influence against it, and said "I
can trust to men to do my business.” “What
can women do anyway?” The reason they
talk thus is that they do not seem to under-
stand that they have any rights only those
which men give them. I assert that women
have done as much towards making this
nation what it is to-day as men have. This is
a broad assertion but I expect to substantiate
it before I get through. When Columbus was
inspired with the belief that there was a
country on the other side of the ocean men
scorned the idea, but a noble woman grasped
it and helped with her means to give him an 
outfit to go on his exploring eqpedition. There-
fore, we give women the credit for the dis-
covery of this good land. When the discov- 
ery was made men began to gather here from 
all the European world, and as they could
not get along without the women, they came
too. They suffered all the privations and
hardships that men did. They went to work,
the women with the men, and soon began to
prosper; as they prospered they became inde-
pendent, growing stronger as the years rolled
by. All these years they had been paying
taxes to England, but they became tired of
this as they were not represented in the mother
country, and “taxation without representa-
tion,” was their war cry. Ladies, that is one
condition to-day and has been for over a hun-
dred years taxation without representation.
The colonists went to war and gained their in-
dependence. When war the was over the men
formulated a constitution for the government
of the people and declared that all were created
free and equal, and the rights of life, liberty
and the pursuit of happiness were guaranteed
to them.
	Then emigration took its march toward the
setting sun. Woman had been declared free
and equal with man. She must go with him
through the wilderness, across the deserts,
through a country filled with savages. She
 was equal with him in all the trials and hard-
ships of pioneer life. They never stopped their
onward march until they landed on the
Pacific coast, by this time women had helped
to build up a great nation. The men had
held the reins of government with a firm and
steady hand. They made all the laws and
administered them, created all the offices and
filled them all with men. And what else has
woman done besides sharing the hardships.
She has reared presidents, senators, congress- 
men, legislators, governors, judges, lawyers,
and warriors to fight the nation’s battles, in
fact every other class of men that compose
this great nation, and yet she has never been
allowed to cast a vote for the sons she has
reared to fill these high and exalted stations.
Yet this is a great and powerful nation there
is none other on the footstool of God that
equals it. Its glory and grandeur shine far
and wide. All nations are invited to come to
this "land of the free and home of the brave,”
and yet at least one half of her citizens have 
never been allowed the right of franchise, and
there is a dark spot on the horizon of its great-
ness. The women of the nation have been
looking at that spot. They find it is a star
with a veil over its face. That star is woman’s
suffrage. We want to remove the veil and
let the star shine forth with all its brightness
and prove to the world that this is indeed and
in truth a land of the free and a home of the
brave women as well as men. The sovereign-
ity of this nation is rested in the people.
Women as well as men are its sovereigns. The 
lawmakers are their servants.
	*	*	*	*	*	*	*	*
	As women have shared equally with men in
all the trials and hardships of building up a
nation until its greatness knows no bounds, is
it not fair and just that she should share  in
the honors and emoluments?


Ladies:— 
	Our cause is so just, that conquer we must.
 Let this be our motto, in God is our trust.
	Mrs. Laura Cutler was heartily in favor of 
woman suffrage.  As woman was in the be-
ginning created as a help-meet to man, it was 
only reasonable to suppose that she was en- 
dowed with equal intelligence that she might 
be an able assistant.  It has been said by 
some misanthropist, "a woman was always at 
the bottom of all trouble.” She is most cer-
tainly at the head of that which is honorable.
Without her whence would have come the pil- 
grim fathers, the patriots of the revolution, the
framers of our glorious constitution?  Through
all those trying times when our Independence
was in its infancy, who went hand in hand
with those patriots as they fought for their 
rights?  Who comforted and sustained them
and prayed while they fought?  Who endured
the hardships of those perilous times side by 
side, with the men traveling across the track-
less plains and bravely bearing their share of 
the burden.” The women all honor to them. 
Since the first woman's convention which 
was held at Senecca Falls N. Y. in June 1848 a
few have been struggling for the right of 
suffrage until now the movement is general.
It is said, a woman will always have her way. 
If this is the case, when the women of a nation 
are united they stand a good chance of getting 
what they ask for.  We want the right to say 
who shall hold office and make the laws we 
are governed by.  As we in Utah have held 
the franchise, we feel most keenly on the sub- 
ject.  If we expect to rear sons who will be
able to uphold and sustain our great and 
glorious constitution in all its purity we must 
prepare ourselves so to do. 
	Hon. Geo. Webb said “It is evident we 
must concede the point that in intelligence,
women are the equal of men, as we have seen 
by, those who preceeded me.” If the ladies of
the nation are united in this movement and
each converts her husband the victory is won.
That women will have their way is fully rec-
ognized in the lobbys of Congress.  Women
succeeding where men fail.  If mothers wish 
their sons to become politicians, they should be 
able to teach them.  A mother’s influence
over her child is boundless.  Many of our
prominent men and eminent politicians ac-
knowledge that their success is due to the in-
fluence of mother or wife. 
	Franchise is conferred by law and can be 
withdrawn by law.  Congress holding that 
power over us as a territory.  If Utah were a 
state (with the leading men we have to-day) 
the ladies of Utah would enjoy the franchise. 
	Mrs. Josephine Brown considered the sub- 
ject of Woman Suffrage a very important one. 
We should understand our positions and be 
united on this movement.  Let our motto be 
“United we stand, divided we fall.” 
	Mr. John Woodhouse spoke upon the con-
dition of women in past ages and of their 
present advancement, until now we find them 
equal with men in almost all the walks of life. 
It is claimed that women would have a purify-
ing effect on politics, but he considered 
American politics so rotten they were past 
redemption.  A different and better state of 
affairs must soon prevail and when that time 
came women would undoubtedly obtain their
rights.
	Bishop T. R. Cutler was proud of this or- 
ganization.  In all departments of life he be- 
lieved women were as reliable as men. They 
had proven themselves capable in various 
positions.  Had heard of female cashiers in
banks but not yet of a female defaulter. It 
was the duty of the ladies to maintain their
rights.  Had never heard an intelligent reason
advanced why women should not vote.  If the
women held the franchise many evils that
now exist in our midst would be abolished.

[Column 2]
	Mr. William Southwick was in sympathy 
with this movement and endorsed the senti-
ments that had been uttered.  Spoke upon the
condition of politics in the United States. 
	Through the industry of the ladies they 
could accomplish anything.  Believed the day
was not far distant when the ladies would 
have the franchise. 
	The meeting adjourned for one month.
	No of members enrolled 137.
		SARAH T. EVANS, Sec. pro. tem.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


The Ex-Empress of Brazil died suddenly of
heart disease at Oporto, on December 28. and
it is said that all Europe is in mourning for
this gentle spirit, whose only sin was the
crown she wore. Her heart was broken when
she was driven from Brazil, and change of air
and scene could not save her, she had been
Empress forty-seven years, and had spent her
long married life in assisting her husband in
contributing to the charities of her adopted
country, and watching over the education of
her daughters and their children. She always
held aloof from the affairs of the State; was
greatly loved by her people, for her charities
and good works were innunerable. In, every
way she was an exemplary woman and Prin-
cess. The news of her death came as a great
shock to the people in Brazil. Monarchists
and Republicans alike mourn deeply over her
untimely death. The regret is very general as
she was so greatly loved.-


IN MEMORIAM. 
	We are called upon to chronicle the death of a beloved 
sister and friend. Martha Ashby wife of W. H Ashby 
and daughter of Albert and Lettie Stevens.
	She was born April 12th 1867, at Holden, Utah, and 
passed peacefully away Nov. 7, 1889. She leaves a daughter
six weeks old and many relatives and friends to mourn 
her absence.
	We feel to say to those who mourn:
		Weep not for comes soon the drawing
		Of that bright and happy day,
		When we may receive the bodies 
		That have long been laid away. 
								EMILY MCKEE.


OBITUARIES.	
	Died at Losee, Garfield Co. Utah Sunday Dec, 1st 1889,
of cancer in the breast, Eliza Jane Losee Cox; aged 47
years 3 months and 21 days. Deceased was the daughter 
of Isaac and Sarah Losee, and the widow of the late Or-
ville Cox. Was a true Latter-day Saint. and departed
this life in full faith of a glorious resurrection. 
					Respectfully,
							JOHN M. DUNNING. 
	At Morgan City Morgan County, Utah, Jan. 8th, 1890,
of neuralgia of the heart, Eliza Lissette Ursenbach Comp-
ton, beloved wife of George Compton. Deceased was the 
daughter of William and Phebe Durrant and was born 
July 6th, 1844, at Deanshanger Northamptonshire England.
Emigrated to Utah in 1896.
	She lived the life of a Latter-day Saint and peacefully 
fell asleep in full hope of a glorious resurrection.
										    P.D. 
Millenial Star please copy.


A SAD DEATH.
	Died in Salt Lake City, November 17th 1889. Sylvia 
beloved wife of Walter C. Lyman, and daughter of John 
and Ane Lovell, born at Deseret, Millard Co. Jan. 9th 
1867. She leaves with her stricken husband, two bright
little boys and in the same grave with her sleep two sweet 
little babes.
	She was well known and dearly loved at her home in Oak
Creek, Millard Co. She was an energetic and faithful 
teacher in the Relief Society of that ward and Counselor 
to the Y. L. M. I. A. for some time and in the ward 
choir her sweet voice was heard singing the songs of 
Zion.
	She is missed more in the home circle, where her kind 
and loving disposition endeared her to all and nothing


but the comforting influence of the Gospel can resign her
friends to their great loss.
	Bless and comfort, O, our Father
		Those who are so sorely tried
	For so many hearts are aching
		Since our own, dear Sylvia died.
	Bless and comfort, Thou, her husband
		And her little boys so fair;
	May they each prove true and faithful
		Till they meet her, "over there."
	Bless, Thou all the stricken loved ones
		Of dear Sylvia pure and fair
	Guide us all O Heavenly Father,
		Till we meet her, "over there,"
								A. E. L.


UNION PACIFIC
THE OVERLAND ROUTE
TICKETS
ON SALE
TO ALL
PRINCIPAL POINTS
EAST, WEST,  
NORTH and SOUTH
—AT—
UNION TICKET OFFICE
Main Street, Salt Lake City.
C. E. INGALLS,             J. V. PARKER,
City Pass. Agt. 	       Div. Pass. Agt.

R. K. THOMAS
EAGLE EMPORIUM
SALT LAKE CITY.
The Leading Retail
Cash House.
R. K. THOMAS

Special to the Ladies.
AT TEASDEL'S
Will be found the latest styles and productions
in
LACES, RUCHES, EMBRODERIES,
FANS, GLOVES, PARASOLS,
RIBBONS, COLLARS, TIES
And an elegant assortment of
DRY GOODS.
	Special department for Ladies' Misses' and In-
fant’s Shoes.
        112, 114, 116, 118 East Temple Street

DAVID JAMES & CO.
TINNERS GAS,WATER & STEAM FITTERS
	Agent for RUMSEY'S celebrated LIFT and FOR
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from
the country promptly responded to.
	Address, DAVID JAMES. Box 306, SALT LAKE CITY.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.
