VOL. 18		SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, JANUARY 1, 1890. 		No. 15.


CONTENTS.
	Once a Year or a Christmas Wish, by Annie
M. P.—National American W. S. A.—W. S. A.
Organizations.—Notes and News.
	Editorial: Official Declaration. — Bishop
Whitney’s Poems.—In Memoriam.—Christmas
Thoughts, by Phebe C. Young.
	Poetry: New Year Resolve, by Amelia
White Farnsworth.—A Glance Backward, by
E. B. W.


NEW YEAR RESOLVE.

The dear old year has lived his time,
	His locks are changed to white,
His youthful days have long since passed,
	He'll close his eyes tonight.
To-morrow morn at early dawn
	New Year will take his place,
And twelve short months of precious time
	Will end his earthly race.

Yet in that time much can be done
	Of evil and of right.
Sorrow and pain may have their sway,
	As well as joy and light.
Sweet fragrant flowers of love and peace
	By beds of thorns may grow,
Some homes with happiness be filled,
	Others, with care and woe.

I sometimes ask if this is just,
	'Tis answered God knows best,
And they who patiently submit
	Will be among His blest.
Then let us all this title seek,
	And humbly bear our part,
Help other's, life's drear storm to meet,
	And cheer the lonely heart.

We'll gladly welcome New Year's morn
	With firm resolve of right,
And spend each leisure hour therein
	With heart, and brain, and might;
In doing all the good we can,
	By making sad hearts bright,
In scattering rays of sunshine
	Some darkened home to light.

Yes, with a zeal of womanhood
	We'll wave the flag of peace.
We'll pray for God to calm the storm,
	Our prisoned friends release.
We'll bless the sick in every home,
	The erring one we'll guide,
We'll help the weaker ones to row
	Their Life Bark down the tide.

Then with joy we'll fondly welcome
	The year's last setting sun;
As with pride we well remember
	The great work he has done.
How he's scattered gems of wisdom,
	Blessings to all has meeted.
Together with the good we've done
	Since his first rays we greeted,
			AMELIA WHITE FARNSWORTH.


a nice present on the tree, I wonder what it
will be, O I think I know what Fred will
give me, a wedding ring but you’ll not need
one for a long time yet said Hess, Harry will
be till next Christmas making up his mind.”
She said this with a merry laugh, which
showed her dimples.
	December 25th 1841.  The tables were set
in the dining hall, the fenders bright, and a fire
made of wood in the grate, every thing neat
and in order, and nothing lacking to make a
merry Christmas.
	Knock, knock, at the hall door indicated
that the visitors were coming to partake of
the hospitality of the good old folks at the
mansion.  While peals of laughter were heard
in the hall as each visitor entered the parlor.
There hung Tom in effigy in the tree look-
ing so natural that the girls thought it was
really himself up there.  He had placed the
tree in a nook and stood the figure face out,
standing tall as life, he was the first up and
hid to see what effect it would have on the
girls when they went in.  He had not long
to wait as they were the next up to see what
presents were there for them.  Lucia and
Hessie made such a racket with their laughter
and exclaiming “there’s Tom in the tree,”
their noise brought the old folks.  They
went around to shake him and saw his bit of
fun, pa and ma were quite delighted with the
surprise.  Tom chuckled at his success.  Mrs.
Grover stepped into her sitting room and
placed her things of industry on the tree.
They all saw their presents and were delighted
Tom came out of his hiding place and found
his socks, when he was pleased he made rhymes
and expressed himself. “Ar’n’t they nice.”
		The old ones are the worse for wear
		And so I've got another pair.
	They left the tree as it was found, Mamie
the cook came in for her share of presents
and fun, and the dog Rover got a silver
collar a present from Tom.  The bride looked
lovely in her white satin dress, white slippers
and a white rose in her curls; her dress was
made plain, and she looked like the nymph
of the woods.  The groom looked all smiles
and happiness itself.
	When the ceremony was performed, and
now kiss your wife, she looked into his face
and with a smile said “my dear Fred I have
now got my Christmas wish I wished for you:
at this moment a gentle timid knock was
heard at the door, and Tom led in from the
cold without a waif, a poor boy who said “I
am hungry give me a piece of bread, I have
no home.” The tender-hearted Lucia took the
boy’s hand and led him to her pa “please take
him for your adopted son, this is my
Christmas wish, sister’s and mine have
both come to pass."
					ANNIE M. P.
Nov. 25th, 1889.


[Column 1]
ONCE A YEAR OR A CHRISTMAS
WISH.
	“My Dear Sister, Christmas only comes
once a year and it is only two weeks that we
have to get ready, yes, Lucia and all the good
things have to be cooked up yet.”
	“Here comes Mamie the cook we will
tell her just what we want and would

[Column 2]
like her to get. It will take from now to
Christmas to cook it all. I will tell her
what to do. Ma wont care.” “No, Hessie I am
the oldest and this is my right. But we will
leave it to the cook which of us shall order
the dinner.” Mamie hears the girls rattling
away about the Christmas dinner. “I am going
to settle this myself,” the cook said,  as
she stept into the kitchen, where the girls
were often found busy with domestic affairs.
	“Now girls I will order: What shall it be?
turkey, a fat goose, chickens and a roast.”
	“Lucia may make the ginger cake, a loaf of
corn bread, squash pies and an English pud-
ding. Hessie the curly head shall look over
the fruit for the mince pies, pare the apples
and potatoes, seed the raisins for the pudding
and arrange the flower vases for the table. I
will bake the pork and beans.”
	“And make the Christmas cake with cream?”
The girls clapt their hands with glee and said
they would abide Mamie’s decision.
	Pa and ma were aged people and these two
sisters were ever ready to assist when needed.
They had plenty and were not too proud to
work in the kitchen.
	They were educated and talented. Lucia
the eldest was very graceful in form and man-
ners and different in complexion from the
younger sister, Hessie; she had deep blue eyes,
long eye lashes, rosy cheeks, light hair that
curled in ringlets around a forehead white
and fair, lips that parted with a smile that
brought a dimple in each cheek, a rounded
form and not as tall as her sister, her voice
was like the nightingale full of music and
glee.
	No one could feel sad when they heard her
cheery voice ringing through the old mansion
in merry tones she gladdened the hearts of the
household that numbered but six. There was
no son, the only children were the two girls.
The eldest of the two was more sedate, her
eyes were dark brown and dreamy, her hair
was almost the same color of a glossy tint and
luxuriant, mild and thoughtful in temperament
she had a care for every one’s comfort and
happiness. It was her greatest delight to
make others happy and would forgo her own
to bestow it upon others whom she loved
dearly. Her parents were the first objects for
her to please, obey and make happy, she
studied their every want, she realized they
were in advanced age, she sought to spare
them a care of anxiety, and was ever ready
to lend a helping hand to each of her parents.
They loved and doted on their daughters,
and looked upon them as jewels of God's
choicest gifts, they knew no difference in their
goodness. The household looked up to Luce
as she was called when things were to be
looked after, she could answer to all their
wants as she knew where every thing about
the house was. She had great devotion for
her sister Hess and would watch over her
with the greatest solicitude, a mother could
not express more anxiety than she. These
two sisters could not be parted they would
always be seen together with the dog Rover
following, they would take their strolls at twi-
light arm in arm and every little shrub would
have an interest for them as they gathered
them up to decorate their home. The ever-
green, hemlock and pine which grew in great
abundance, they gathered to make home
bright and cheerful. They were taking their

[Column 3]
usual walk one afternoon discussing the Christ-
mas tree and dinner thus.
	“Dear Hess, we will hang the tree with
garlands, we will take the hemlock, pine and
evergreens and weave them into wreaths and
twine them around the tree intermix them
with the house flowers, I think we can spare
some. We can make artificials also and sur-
prise pa and ma will this not be a grand idea?”
Hessie drank in all that her sister said and
gathered up all that her arms would hold.
“Dear sister Lucia how I wish we had a
brother he would help us now would he not?
and then Christmas would go off so much
more pleasant; then if he was a jolly brother
he would come flying in with some nice present
on Christmas morning for us all, and Oh, how
well we would enjoy the dinner, I know it
would make pa and ma more happy to have
a son, he could help pa so much, we are girls
and can’t do like a brother could. I think he
would be good, don’t you sister?”
	“O, yes Hessie pa and ma are so good they
could not have a bad child. I wonder why
they did not have a son as well as daughters.
The Lord does all things best. Let us wish
for a brother on Christmas! “All right.”
“Now you wish Hess and so will I and we
will see which one gets it. I’ll get the sticks 
you hold them and I will draw; the one that
gets the short one gets her wish. Here goes.”
“I have it.” “Let’s try again, once more for
grace, Luce all right, here goes I have it. We
will both get our wish but we will keep it a
secret until Christmas.”
	As they were returning to the house they
met the hired man Tom. “Well girls how
now, gathering up for the Christmas tree
ar’n’t you.” “Yes, Tom and you have got
to do your part, get the tree; we want a very
nice large one, we expect to decorate it with
our handiwork. Hess and I.” “Yes girls I
am going to have a finger in the pie and you
may be sure it will be a fine one, I always
try to please the lasses.
		“To make them rememberme.
		So hang me up on the Christmas ree."
	“Oh Tom you are always full of merriment
how could we?” “Easy enough I intend to
get it large enough to crawl up to the top
branch for a Christmas present.” “And you
would make a nice one you are always so
obliging and good natured, “was Hessie’s re-
ply.” “But I am not as good as little curly
head” speaking through his nose in the
Yankee style. Tom was a favorite with all,
he had been an old standby for years, and as
the old gentleman was feeble this faithful old
steward looked after out door concerns with
great trust and care.
	Tom passed along thinking of the good
times he had enjoyed in this happy family
during the holidays, he was always remem-
bered with the rest of the family. Mr. and
Mrs. Grover were two old people highly re-
spected for their hospitality and marked kind-
ness to their hired help. The old gentleman
when riding out on his white horse, would go
provided with pennies in his pocket to throw
out to the children and they would scramble
around to gather them up. The children all
loved him for his kindness to them and they
treated him with great respect. He would
ride away saying to himself, “these are fine
noble boys, I wish I had been blest with


just one boy, but then my girls are so good
I ought to be satisfied, some day I may have
a son-in-law and this will bring things around
all right.”
	His wife Mrs. Grover was a kind hearted
good woman; she loved her husband, was a
devoted wife she studied his every wish and
spent her most happy hours in his society,
they had lived happily for a great many
years, her disposition in youth was like her
daughter Hessie, volatile, full of mirth and
gladness. William Grover first met her at a
Christmas dinner, his family lived near neigh-
bors to her’s and were invited there on that
festive occasion, and afterwards he became her
suitor. They were not married for several
years after, as he went abroad to be educated,
his parents were well to do and left him a
nice little fortune at their death; he made
good use of what his father left. They al-
ways had plenty and to spare. The fireside
was always bright and cheerful. That Christ-
mas dinner was often cited to, as an omen
of good luck to the happy pair, and now as
the day was not far off the theme of love
that animated their hearts at that first Christ-
mas meeting seemed to awaken afresh in their
minds, that love in well balanced minds will
never die out, but grow stronger as fleeting
time goes by, and then beyond the grave, it
lives where endless joys and bliss in perfect life
will neverend.
	The girls had been kept at boarding school
from the time they were old enough to leave
home and attend, they were quite proficient
in their studies. Lucia was a fine performer
on the piano with her tapering fingers she
would run over the keys with great dexterity.
Then Hessie’s voice with Lucia’s accompani-
ment was music itself, so sweet and soft, they
would sing together, and the listener would
be enrapt. It was vacation and the girls were
at home through the holidays. They loved
their home it was to them a paradise, and
when from school the house was enlivened by
their merrie chat and presence. But they real-
ized the need of knowledge and a finished
education and they were determiued to mas-
ter every branch. They had no suitors at
this present time, the young men of the vil-
lage looked on them as being a little higher
up than they could reach, yet they would
speak of them with great respect and defer-
ence. The girls were untrammeled, contented
and happy, they knew no reverse of fortune,
that brings clouds and discontent,. But theirs
was a favored and happy life.
	“Now Hess this may be our last stroll to
the woods,” said Lucia as they walked toward
the house with the evergreens quite tired out.
“Now sister,’' said Hessie “what shall we do
with these,” holding up her arms. “We will
take them to the cook’s room and make them
up for the tree,” away they go to her room.
“Here we come Mamie with our arms full
and we want you to help us and say nothing
to pa and ma, we will make the tree a sur-
prise to them, we can come here an hour or
two and get it quite ready and they will think
we are helping with the dinner.” The cook
was one with the girls to have a little fun,
and she liked to indulge them when at home.
The cook had been in the family almost as
long as the steward and seemed like one of the
family.
	No one could prevail on her to leave the
good old folks, she had a room to herself and
rather did as she pleased. She was a model
housekeeper and could not be beat in cook-
ing. The girls when at home were more in
the kitchen than the mother and things went
on all right under Mamie’s supervision, so they
were left to her care. And while the girls
tripped away to let their mother know they
had come, Mamie laid the different greens
on papers and soliloquized to herself. “The

[Column 2]
dear girls, I would do any thing for their
pleasure and gratification. They are such
sweet-tempered and good girls.” At that
moment Tom knocked at the door and
came in. “The girls say I am to bring the
tree right in here and be mum and then spirit
it away Christmas, from here to the parlor.”
“Yes, Tom that is just what you may do,
there is a closet in the hall, we will dress it
up and put it there and you can get up early
in the morning and slip it in the parlor.”
“All right Mamie.”	Now a new idea flashed
across Tom’s mind as he strode away. “Dress
it up he said to himself, I am going to have
a hand in dressing up the tree I will put my
coat around, stuff my pants, stuff a head and
make them think it is me. I told the girls I
would hang myself up, in it, ha, ho, won’t they
laugh, come Christmas come.”
	“And I’ll have some fun.” He was a great
rhymer and always jolly.
			But I must wait
			And kiss my Kate.
	The house was a rustic old-fashioned one
set well back from the road, with long rows of
ornamental trees on either side which made a
nice shade in the summer up a smooth
garveled walk, at the end was an old wicket
gate, as you passed through this a garden dis-
playing good taste, well laid out met your
view, although at this season of the year few
flowers were in bloom, the summer ones were
covered to preserve them from the frost and
getting winter killed.
	The lawn was still green and the fountain
sending forth its spray, the woodbine, myrtle
and ivy festooned around the pillars of the
old fashioned porch and windows. The front
door steps were hewn stone and led up to the
main entrance. The front door was large and
massive with small narrow windows at the
sides. The doors folded back into a large
and spacious hall which was lighted with a
chandelier as you entered, the old fashioned
custom was observed, if a gentleman he set
his hat and gloves on the table took off his
overcoat and overshoes in the hall, if a lady,
she left her wraps, and the host or hostess
came forward to receive and welcome them.
The parlor was large, the furniture was ele-
gant rich and costly, the finest velvet covered
the chairs and sofa; over a large old time fire
place with grate and fenders, set vases filled
with flowers that bloomed late, intermixed
with green, which the girls delighted to keep
fresh and beautiful. The greatest feature of
the room was the likenesses, father and
mother hung side by side. Hessie’s hung by
her mother’s and the faces looked so much
alike, you could but tell the difference by the
age, Lucia’s was beside her father, she re-
sembled him more than her mother. There
had been no pains spared, no expense with-
held to make this home a happy one and to
perpetuate that satisfaction that should the
dear old parents pass away, their dear children
could look upon their counterpart, or should
the girls be taken away by a divine Providence
their features were left on canvas and would
not be so easily forgotten. When you gazed
upon the portrait of the youngest it seemed as
though her lips would part to speak, to bring
the dimples in her cheeks with a smile, so like
was she taken  The artest was an expert and
could bring nature to his command, he was
master of his art and could bring it into
requisition; such the father had sought to take
his charming daughters, and his wife and
his own.
	The whole house was in keeping with the
parlor. The sitting room was neatly furnished
to make it comfortable, easy chairs and
lounges, windows large to emit the rays of the
glorious sun and light up its already cheer-
ful aspect for everything had been done with
taste and good judgment to make this room

[Column 3]
cheerful. Here Delia as William called his
dear old lady, liked to sit always busy with
her needle. The whole appearance of the
room was homelike and was adorned with her
needle work which made it bright and cozy.
The bed spread, curtains, chairs and lounges
were covered with tidies by her deft fingers.
And now as Christmas was drawing near, she
was more busy than ever. Although they
had means at their command she made it a
rule to make some articles of her own
work, a present to each one of the family.
The steward and cook included. Tom must
have a necktie, a pair of socks, marked to be-
sure, “ar’n’t they nice” he would say. He
would make rhymes when he was pleased, this
was his verse the last Christmas.
		"Socks for me, a necktie too
		What they want, I'll always do.”
	The cook must be remembered too, a pocket
handkerchief needle worked around the edge,
and father must have a white shirt worked
very neatly. The girls must have white
aprons with pockets and tucks.
	The extra cooking for Christmas was going
on finely, Mamie was in the kitchen prepar-
ing the mince for the pies, as it must stand
some time she said to be good to get pickeled,
or the pies would taste flat and insipid, she
prided herself on making good mince pie, and
fixing up things to the taste. “Hess you may
seed the raisins, pare the apples and grind the
spices, I will chop the meat and get it all
ready to mix together and then it can stand
over a week, I can bake all the pies in the
oven at once the middle of next week; the
bread and cake next baking. Tom may kill
the turkey, goose and chicks, and I will pick
off their feathers when they are hung up,
they will freeze stiff this weather as the air
has changed since we talked together about
the coming Christmas.”
	The cook kept her hands busy and her
tongue too sometimes on such occasions as
this one. Tom looked in as he was passing by
the door he said “girls when shall I fetch the
tree?” “any time you like” said the cook “only
give us time to dress it, two days before
Christmas that will do.” “Take it to your
room shall I?” “Yes Tom, now go about
your business in double quick time and kill
the fowls for me to dress,” away he went say-
ing he would have a hand in dressing.
	There was a boarding house kept in the
village by a maiden lady of great respecta-
bility, and there were two gentleman boarders
that had come in town of late; they were
college chums and one of the two was a
nephew to the lady that kept the house. He
was a young man of high standing in society
finely built about six feet in hight, dark hair
and complexion gentlemanly in bearing, no-
bility shone out in every act and word. His
companion was of a different cast in face and
figure; he was honesty itself with a good
heart and obliging manners, not so much the
fine gentleman with polished airs, but truth-
ful and good, there could not have been a
greater contrast between two individuals, one
was light and delicate in constitution fair skin,
a curly, sandy beard. Both were of good re-
spectable parentage. The nephew had come
to make a short stay with his aunt, and had
brought his friend with him to spend the
holidays and have a change from a city life.
Fred Stanley was the name of the lady’s
nephew, Harry Hasting the name of the other.
“Now Harry said Fred as they sat together in
their neat little room cozy enough it was too,
a cheerful fire blazing away on the hearth.
“How shall we make our acquaintance with
those nymphs of the woods, we heard chatting
away about Christmas, I would give my whole
fortune to get her for a wife she is such a
fairy, what a model of health and beauty, she
is fair as a lily, and oh what a voice its sweet


[Column 1]
notes still ring in my ears and awakens a
tender feeling."
	Stanley was at an age when he thought of 
marrying and settling down in life, he was
quite a home body and longed for that day to
come, he was not much of a rover and now as
he had seen and heard sweet Hessie, although
a silent spectator, his whole mind was bent on
making her acquaintance. "Dead in love,"
said Harry who was not so hasty in making
up his miud to settle down in life, he did not
so much fancy Fred's choice although he
thought the curly headed girl very pretty, no
one could think otherwise.
	But Harry had his mind bent toward the
other sister, her dark glossy hair, dreamy eyes,
and graceful figure made a greater impression
upon him than he was willing to admit of to
Fred. But he was determined like his friend
to get acquainted. They had frequently met
Tom the steward as they were out sight seeing,
the country village had new charms for the
two gentlemen as not far distant lived the
ones they had eaves-dropped and admired.
They would have made themselves known
then at once, but delicacy forbade, they were
truly gentlemen in action and sentiment, they
would not accost two young ladies alone with-
out an introduction; this would have been con-
sidered impolite, uncivil, rash in those days,
for a gentleman to speak to a lady without a
former acquaintance. In days gone by
modesty was the safeguard of virtue, boldness
paves the way to ruin. "Say Fred let us go
over to the mansion and have a chat with
the steward we may be able to get him to
plead our cause." "all right Harry, just as
you say," too well pleased with the opportu-
nity now offered, so they walked along toward
the house, Tom was trimming up some shrub-
bery outside, and looking up, saw the two
gentlemen walking up the graveled walk, Tom
gave them a welcome bow and passed the
compliments of the day. They were soon in
deep conversation, Tom bowing assent to their
inquiries. He invited them to go to the house
but they declined,  and walked away. "I
think Harry we have got the steward favorably
impressed and he will be our vicegerent, and
we will get acquainted with the inmates, in-
side of those old rustic boards. If so it will
make us the happiest of lovers." Tom was
quite taken np with the gentlemen and after
they left went on talking to himself after this
strain. "Now the tree is to be a surprise and
I am to make another by getting the girls to
come into the garden to gather some late
flowers for their vases and the young gentle
men will happen along and I will introduce
them to the girls they must not live old maids,
they are too nice for that, ar'n't they? and
then the old gentleman will be so pleased with
a son-in-law, that tall one has a fine cast to
make one if it takes right I must not count
up things too fast. But wait at the garden
gate." Tom was talking to himself all this
time.
	The Grovers were intending to invite some
of their near neighbors, so they were cooking
up enough, a great deal more than their
family could possibly consume, some would be
left over for New Year's and there would not 
have to be so much cooking done on that day.
The cook would say I have mince, squash
pies and cake enough ahead for the next
holiday, even if there should be a wedding,
that cake is good enough for the occasion,
little thinking her words might come true.
	The weather would not admit of the girls
going out much, as the change had made it a
great deal colder and it was quite stormy,
some snow falling but not sufficient for sleigh-
riding which was much enjoyed by the young
folks. But they expected one by Christmas,
so they were more confined to the house and
did not learn a great deal about the folks in

[Column 2]
the village. They had heard about the two
young men at the hoarding house but that
was all they knew about them. Mrs. Grover
was intending to invite Miss Stanley the aunt
and some others. The girls were very busy
when they were not in the kitchen helping
the cook, they were working on the trimmings
for the Christmas tree in the cook’s room. This
labor engrossed all their thoughts except some
moments they spared to see if pa or ma
wanted their service to do an errand, or save
them steps if they wanted any thing. Ma
thought they were busy in the kitchen, and
knew nothing about the tree they were spend-
ing so much labor on with wreaths of ever-
green and paper flowers, here and there a
natural one some white and some variegated.
They were so much taken up with all these
things they had not thought of their Christ-
mas wish expressed when they took their last
stroll to the woods and gathered their ever
greens for the Christmrs tree, the vases and
to hang in festoons about the house, and they
little thought that other ears heard and were
near by to make a wish that might be fulfilled;
such is behind the curtain of time and our
knowledge of future events.
	Tom, and the old gentleman were straight-
ening up things around the outside of the
house, the leaves had to be gathered off the
grass plat, the winter flowers tied up in
bunches, the runners kept in their places and
the walks cleaned up, everything had to be
kept in order. The old gentleman took his
daily walk about the premises to see that
nothing was neglected, though he had but
little occasion as the steward kept things very
orderly. But Mr. Grover would remark, “if
the owner did not show an interest in his
property and concerns he could not expect it
of his hired help and if he looked after things
it would be an incentive to Tom to do the
same.” And in this course of life, laid the
great secret to having faithful help. “Now
Tom, I see no occasion lor finding fault with
any thing you have the charge of you have
done as well as I could have done myself, but
you know Tom, I have always looked after
things, not because I think yon cannot be
trusted or are neglectful.” Mr. Grover al-
ways had a kind word for his faithful steward,
he loved his employer and would do any thing
to please him, as he had acted like a father
and been kind.
	Tom saw the young men coming at the end
of the graveled walk, and to himself as they
approached nearer. “Now” thought Tom “the
most proper thing for me to do is to introduce
them first to the father;” as the gate was open
to carry out the rubbish, they walked in.
The girls had just stepped out upon the porch
wondering who the strangers were, as Tom had
invited them to come for the flowers; he had
clipped some before he tied them up in
bunches. As the young men stood facing
the two, Tom introduced them, “Mr. Grover,
this is Mr. Stanley, and Mr. Hasting two
young gentlemen that are stopping at the
boarding house this one, looking at Fred, is
Miss Stanley’s nephew, I have met them be-
fore and invited them in to see the garden.”
	Mr. Grover extended his hand and gave
each a hearty shake and cordially invited
them in to the house. He was a man of great
sociability, and was very courteous to strangers.
The girls had gone back to the parlor, think-
ing the strangers would soon leave, and they
could go to the garden and get the flowers; as
they wanted to put fresh ones in the vases,
they had on their every day suits but they
were neatly fitting dresses; they wore with
them a little narrow edge of needle work
around the neck and sleeves, white aprons
low slippers, their hair combed neatly back
from their foreheads. Hessie showing one of
marble whiteness as loose cirls hung about it,

[Column 3]
her lips just parting with a smile to show two
dimples one in each cheek, their eyes beamed
with happiness and joy, their cheeks were
flushed with rosy tints of health. They had
been busy at work through the forepart of
the day to execute their designs for the an-
ticipated coming Christmas day. As the
gentlemen walked into the parlor Mr. Grover
said “My daughters Mr. Stanley, Mr. Hast-
ing. Be seated gentlemen.” as the girls set
chairs. They made their stay short, but in-
teresting, as they had traveled a great deal and
had learned the ways of the world by strict
observation of men and things, Hessie’s eyes
dropped as she met those of Fred, and the
color of her cheek was heightened as he would
look at her, then at her likeness and her
mother’s, “Miss Grover you do look so much
like your mother’s likeness, and your own is
so life like, your sister’s too is very natural.
The artist knew how to use his pencil he
said “yes, she said father employed the best
one he could hear of he was first class, the
price was not questioned, father was so well
satisfied.” Harry and Lucia kept up a lively
conversation until the hour arrived to leave
which was very reluctantly done. The ladies
invited the gentlemen to call again, and they
took their leave. Fred was enamored with that
visit and lost that night’s sleep and many
more before he could make up his mind to
ask his lady love in marriage.
	Harry took a great liking to Lucia her
modest genteel ways, her shining luxuriant
hair, her dreamy eyes and lady like appear-
ance, had won his admiration but he had a
way of hiding his feelings and not letting
them be known, he could dissemble in such
matters but his heart was true and when once
set on an object it could not change, he loved
an object for its worth and goodness, it was
not fictitious but real, he saw in the older
sister virtues that led her to self denial her
happiness consisted in making others so, this
he observed the little time he had been in
her society and this was the opinion he formed
of her character that day in the woods. She
had also become deeply interested in him, she
believed him to be very honorable and upright.
And as the girls bad had no suitors prior to
this it was very natural that they should he
favorably inclined toward the strangers.
	Their hearts had gone cut in unison to
these two visitors. “Dear sister, we must re-
turn to our task said Lucia as they sat by
the pleasant fire grate in the parlor think-
ing of the event ot the day, “I am afraid
those two chaps nave put things out of our
minds that we ought to be attending to in
cook’s room and kitchen,” “I am sure they
have out of mine, (said Hessie) what a fine
form, what a carriage he has, meaning Fred,
nobility is in every movement,” Oh, what
sparkling eyes what an intellect, and oh, my
heart Luce,” placing her hands over it,
“and if it aches said her sister you must
think no more of these strangers,” feeling a
solicitude for her sister, here comes Mamie
“Well girls what keeps you away so long, we
must be getting things ready and fix things
up in grand style as your pa has sent Tom
around to the boarding house to invite Miss
Stanley her nephew and his friend and I
don’t know how many more.” The cook feel-
ing the great responsibility wanted the girl’s
help, this news gave them an impetus and
away they went to the kitchen.	
	The young men on their homeward march
discussed their good fortune in making the
girls acquaintance and the old gentleman,
they admired his hospitality, “that charmer
curly head, Harry, has made me think what
I dare not say, did you ever feel that way
Harry when you were in the company of the.
		[Continued on page 118.]


A CHRISTMAS WISH.

[Continued from page 115.]

other sex?" he would not admit that he did,
although he knew it was so he had the tact
to keep it to himself. But Fred being of a
more open, talkative disposition he would
out with his feelings. "Tomorrow we will
walk around to the mansion again, I am going
to ask the father for his daughter, that is, if
I can pluck up courage enough," "Well
Fred I hope you don't ask him for Miss Luco
(as I heard her called, for short I suppose,) I
want that pleasure myself." "No, Harry I
shan't bother my head about you and Luce
you can have it all your own way, the young-
est is my style, "the nymph of the woods." As
he finished the sentence, a knock at the door
was heard. He opened it, a note was handed
to him it was the invitation to attend the
Christmas dinner at Mr. Grover's  This de-
lighted them both as they did not expect it,
Fred knew that his aunt was going, but did
not expect so great a pleasure as that they
would be among the bidden guests. The next
day they paid another visit to their sweet
hearts, they were kindly received and made
welcome, they were now on familiar terms
with the family. Fred walked out to have a
conversation with Mr. Grover as he was
generally with Tom giving orders or looking
after things. Fred had to be couragous at
this time, he was determined to know if he
would be accepted as a son-in-law, he came 
nearly backing out as he saw the old gentle-
man coming toward him and thought he
would make some remark about the weather.
Bnt no, he said to himself I'll be resolute this
time as he had tried to broach the subject be-
fore. It seemed as though Mr. Grover
anticipated the young man's thoughts and
accosted him with such kindness that Fred
took fresh courage and said. "Mr. Grover
you had once to ask" Yes, yes, young man
(not waiting the end of the sentence,) you
wish to ask me for my daughter in marriage."
"That is just it, but it was hard work to ex-
press myself."


Fred said their acquaintance had been
rather short but he believed he knew his mind
as well now as he would a year hence, (said
he, I love your daughter Hess and it will be
the study of my life to make her happy and
show to you that I am sincere I thought it
the most honorable to speak to you and get
your consent first, the parents that have
raised their children to maturity ought
to have the first say about such matters.
You will be kind enough to speak to your
wife for her consent, I have not as yet spoken
to your daughter on this subject not feeling
at liberty to do so, untill I had your
approval.”
	Mr. Grover very much admired the candor,
good sense and earnestness of the young man.
He replied that if his daughter accepted his
offer, he had his consent and wished them
much joy and happiness as they walked life’s
path together. He promised he would speak
to the mother on the all-important subject.
Fred walked into the house feeling more at
ease and satisfied with himself for the course
he had taken. Tom seeing the two talking
together thought about what it might be. He
said to himself,” the Christmas tree is going to
be a surprise and we may have a wedding
and that will be another, is not he a fine look-
ing chap; master will be proud of him for a.
son-in-law and he comes around and is so
willing to help, he knows just how to get
through this life easy and that is by making
friends by helping every body.” Fred had
worked himself into the good graces of the
household. The steward and cook were often
heard speaking of his good qualities, unknown
to himself he was unassuming and would make
himself useful wherever he went. This was
natural to his nature,to lighten other’s burdens
he would lend a helping hand under all cir-
cumstances. Tom would remark to Mamie “if
Hess gets a husband she will a servant” and
this was true, as time told. Fred did not see
much of Harry as he was more common-place
than his genteel friend, he would seek Luce in
the cook’s room or in the kitchen when she
would be engaged at the work always busy em-
ployed helping Mamie. The young men made
short visits, they did not wish to be tedious
nor hinder the girls from their work, but as
they felt lonesome not being much acquainted
they liked to call at the mansion.
	The gentlemen returned to their boarding
house, they met, Miss Stanley at the door.
She mistrusted that there was a load-stone at
the farm house, where she was invited to dine
at Christmas. “Well boys” she said, “you
seem to be often out and I notice you direct
your course one certain way, I expect to be
invited to a wedding before long.”
	Feeling a little jocular. “So do I dear
Aunt,” Fred replied,“will it be, to Mr. Smith?
across the way?” She did not care to be
jested about him, as he had called a few times
of late, but did not meet with much en-
couragement from the maiden aunt. The
young men were soon closeted together in their
room.” We must buy some presents for this
Christmas occasion, Harry what will you
get to hang on the tree? “Oh, a doll of
course, for a bit of fun I suppose, what will
yours be Fred? “Oh, a wedding ring” Heigh-
he is that your intention?” “Yes, if I can get
her consent.” “You are very hasty in your
make up I have not thought of such a thing,
but I may, after the holidays.” This was like
Harry, he took things more moderate than
Fred, he was none the less in love for that
trait, in his character. But would not put
his plans in execution as quick as Fred and
he was somewhat younger too than he, and
did not see the necessity of settling down so
soon. As it was getting late they retired to
their beds to dream of love and the coming
hristmas; sleeping is sweet and balmy to th

[Column 2]
'sincere lover, he sees beauty in every object
and they whisper this is love, nothing to him
looks dreary or sad. He looks to one that
will share his fortune or his sorrows and make
a home bright and cheerful, one dear spot on
earth where he can rest and center all his
hopes, he wanders no more, his feet and mind
are stayed. He has a loving wife to bid him
welcome, prattling ones to climb upon his
knee, a happy home and many dear friends.
This is the climax of all other things. “A
home, sweet home,” so thought Fred Stanley
as he rose from his bed, refreshed and anima-
ted with such things in view.
	Fred made his toilet putting on a few extras
after dinner, as he intended to have a talk
with his nymph of the woods as he would call
Hess. He intended to go alone and not say
any thing to Harry about going this time, as
he wanted to think how he would broach the
subject or put his thoughts into words, many
times in going the distance from one house to
another he would make up sentences and then
think they were abrupt then flat or soft for
a gentleman to utter to a lady, and when he
arrived at the threshold, he knew not what
he would say. This time Mrs. Grover an-
swered the door, she very pleasantly invited
him into the parlor, he found her to be con-
versant on many subjects and topics of the
day, he admired her views and ideas with re-
gard to the education of children, she said
“they could not be too young to make good
impressions on their minds and this should be
done before evil impressions were made, for
evil ones would be like rank weeds sown in a
garden, when the good seed was sown last,
the weeds would come up first and overrun
the plants. Lay a foundation she said that
would do to build upon, also teach them re-
ligious sentiments, that they must be thank-
ful to their Heavenly Father for the preserva-
tion of their lives, their existence here on
earth, teach them of a life beyond this, that
they were created for a life of usefulness, to be
good, generous and kind to others this will
make them happy and contented with their
lot, keep infidelity out of their hearts and
minds, infidelity and doubt lead away from a
better life.”
	“There are many precious souls that go to
ruin, through the neglect of their parents, not
being properly instructed while young, when
their minds can be bent like the twig.” “My
dear lady those are my views, I can endorse
them all, I am pleased to have the opportunity
of listening to such sound sense and reason,
ing and hope I may profit by your words.”
She excused herself and called in her daughter
Hessie, as she had been told by her husband
that he wished to marry her. This met their
approval, Fred wished her to get her things
for a walk, as the sun shone, the day was more
pleasant than usual he took her arm and
drew it through his, they walked along in
silence together down the walk, finally he
broke it by asking Hessie if she remembered
that she expressed a wish when she and her
sister broke the sticks on their ramble in the
woods. She blushed deeply as it came to
mind what she wished for, and wondered how
he should know so much about that event.
“We two were there but did not like to in-
trude ourselves upon your solitude I think
your words were these, to your sister.” “Let
us wish for a brother on Christmas.” “Here
I am Hessie I offer myself for a Christmas
present to be a son, and a brother, and your
most devoted husband. Say yes dear,” so
sudden was this announced that she could not
speak, her tongue was too thick to utter a
word but her eyes and silence told her secret,
she loved him, she could not help it, he was
her ideal in goodness, and she thought with-
out a fault,a perfect gentleman in actions and
manners. “You Hessie have sealed my happi-

[Column 3]
ness by your assent to my proposal, you are
my jewel forever, my nymph of the woods.
For there I first saw you. Shall we be
married on Christmas day? and then you will
gat your wish love,pa and ma will have a son,”
Hess thought this would be a good time all
things would be in readiness the cooking done
the company invited.
	All was bustle about the mansion, things
lively enough, a Christmas dinner and a
wedding the same day was a new feature, Mr.
Grover went to get the Minister for the occa-
sion all were busy doing their part, Tom had
brought the tree and sure enough it was a
large one, he had if nicely trimmed and a
stand made for it, and the girls had it covered
over with a nice stone colored material and
the girls had the evergreens in wreaths and
festoons to hang the presents on, and Tom had
not forgotten his arrangement but had it in
readiness. The cooking was all done, Mamie
had made the cake extra nice and large, to
set in the middle of the table handsomely
iced over and with two turtle doves perched
on the top and a white wreath around it,
every thing was baked in the old fashioned
brick oven,Mamie said she would set the tables
the night before Christmas and then there
would not be so much to do, Hessie said she
would put the flowers in the vases.
	Fred stepped over with his present to hang
on the tree as he had been let into the secret
by Tom, who said he was appointed to spirit
away the tree to the parlor Christmas morn-
ing, but he kept it to himself what he was
going to hang on the tree. Fred thought he
would go and see his aunt and tell her about
what would take place at the mansion. He
said to her as he arrived “dear aunt, I am
going to be married to Miss Hessie Grover on
Christmas, as you are invited I thought you
ought to know it,” “I thought so;” said his
aunt, “that you did not go there for naught,
I wish you much joy and continued happiness,
I told you I should be invited to a wedding
soon, I must dress up in my best to suit the
occasion.” “So do aunt as you may not have
the pleasure of seeing me married again in a
hurry.” Perhaps I may your friend, “was his
aunt’s reply.” Harry took every thing cool
and said there was plenty of time, but had
bought the present for his darling Luce a
handsome gold watch, he said she deserved
it and if any one had earned a present she
had. Harry was very observing and a good
judge of human nature, He saw that Lucia
made sacrifices for others comfort and happi-
ness he would think to himself often. “If I
were really worthy of her, I would marry and
settle down.” He knew she thought a great
deal of him, if she showed a perference to any
one it was to her Harry as she would some-
times call him. But they were quiet lovers
and people did not know how much they
thought of each other. But she probably
would be like her mother not marry very
young, but she was satisfied if she could see
him and be in his society. Mrs Grover would
frequently go into the kitchen to see how.
things were progressing, but she had but little
need as the cook, Tom, and the girls had
every thing in ample order, Tom was on his
tip toes to assist, he would hurry up his work
and come to the kitchen door and say, “Mamie
want some water, out of wood, want any thing
call me, (look over to the table) isn’t that
nice.”  He always had wood sawed and split
and piled up in the wood shed, so he could
soon bring an armfull to the kitchen and
would say, “I am going to have a finger in
the pie.” “Dear Hess said Luce to night is
Christmas eve and we must hang up our
stockings, (this was the custom before trees
came in vogue,) we can hang them on the
Christmas tree Luce, and we may get them
filled with stones. Well I shant mind if I ge


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS,	Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah Terms:
ne copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months, 50 cts. No
eduction made for clubs. City papers delivered by mail,
xtra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space, one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal discount
o regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, No. 25 E., South Temple Street,second
gate east ot Deseret News Office. Business hours from 10 a.m
to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
		PUBLISHER WOMAN’S EXPONENT,
			SALT LAKE CITY UTAH.

	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
Second Class Matter.

SALT LAKE CITY,	JANUARY 1, 1890.

A HAPPY NEW YEAR.


[Column 1]

OFFICIAL DECLARATION.

SALT LAKE CITY,
	December 12th, 1889.
TO WHOM IT MAY CONCERN:
	In consequence of gross misrepresentations of
the doctrines, aims and practices of the Church
of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, commonly
called the "Mormon" Church, which have been
promulgated for years, and have recently been
revived for political purposes and to prevent all
aliens, otherwise qualified, who are members of
the "Mormon" Church from acquiring citizenship,
we deem it proper on behalf of said Church to
publicly deny these calumnies and enter our pro-
test against them.
	Wo solemnly make the following declarations,
viz:
	That this Church views the shedding of human
blood with the utmost abhorrence. That we re-
gard the killing of a human being, except in con-
formity with the civil law, as a capital crime which
should be punished by shedding the blood of the
criminal, after a public trial before a legally con-
stituted court of the land.
	Notwithstanding all the stories told about the
killing of apostates, no case of this kind has ever
occurred, and of course has never been estab-
lished against the Church we represent. Hun-
dreds of seceders from the Church have con-
tinuously resided and now live in this Territory,
many of whom have amassed considerable wealth,
though bitterly hostile to the "Mormon" faith
and people. Even those who have made it their
business to fabricate the vilest falsehoods, and to
render them plausible by culling isolated passages
from old sermons without the explanatory con-
text, and have suffered no opportunity to escape
them of vilifying and blackening the characters
of the people, have remained among those whom
they have thus persistently calumniated until the
present day, without receiving the slightest per-
sonal injury.
	We denounce as entirely untrue the allegation
which has been made, that our Church favors or
believes in the killing of persons who leave the
Church or apostatize from its doctrines. We
would view a punishment of this character for
such an act with the utmost horror, it is abhorrent
to us and is in direct opposition to the funda-
mental principles of our creed.
	The revelations of God to this Church make
death the penalty for capital crime, and require
that offenders against life and property shall be
delivered up to and tried by the laws of the land.
	We declare that no Bishop's or other courts in
this Church claims or exercises civil or judicial
functions, or the right to supersede, annul or
modify a judgment of any civil court. Such courts,

[Column 2]

while established to regulate Christian conduct,
are purely ecclesiastical, and their punitive
powers go no further than the suspension or ex-
communication of members from Church fellow-
ship.
	That this Church, while offering advice for the
welfare of its members in all conditions of life,
does not claim or exercise the right to interfere
with citizens in the free exercise of social or politi-
cal rights and privileges. The ballot in this Terri-
tory is absolutely untrammeled and secret. No
man's business or other secular affairs are in-
vaded by the Church or any of its officers. Free
agency and direct individual accountability to God
are among the essentials of our Church doctrine.
All things in the Church must be done by common
consent, and no officer is appointed without the
vote of the body.
	We declare that there is nothing in the ceremony
of the Endowment, or in any doctrine, tenet, obli-
gation or injunction of this Church, either private
or public,which is hostile or intended to be hostile
to the Government of the United States. On the
contrary, its members are under divine command-
ment to revere the Constitution as a heaven-in-
spired instrument and obey as supreme all laws
made in pursuance of its provisions.
	Utterances of prominent men in the Church at
a time of great excitement have been selected
and grouped, to convey the impression that
present members are seditious. Those expres-
sions were made more than thirty years ago, when
through the falsehoods of recreant officials, after-
wards demonstrated to be baseless,troops were sent
to this Territory and were viewed by the people,in
their isolated condition, fifteen hundred miles
from railroads, as an armed mob coming to renew
the bloody persecutions of years before.
	At that time excitement prevailed and strong
language was used; but no words of disloyalty
against the Government or its institutions were
uttered; public speakers confined their remarks
to denouncing traitorous officials who were pros-
tituting the powers of their positions to accompiish
nefarious ends. Criticism of the acts of United
States officials was not considered then, neither
is it now, as treason against the nation nor as
hostility to the Government. In this connection
we may say that the members of our Church have
never offered or intended to offer, any insult to
the flag of our country; but have always honored
it as the ensign of laws and liberty.
	We also declare that this Church does not
claim to be an independent, temporal kingdom of
God, or to be an imperium in imperio aiming to
overthrow the United States or any other civil
government. It has been organized by divine
revelation preparatory to the second advent of the
Redeemer. It proclaims that "the kingdom of
heaven is at hand." Its members are commanded
of God to be subject unto the powers that be until
Christ comes, whose right it is to reign.
	Church government and civil government are
distinct and separate in our theory and practice,
and we regard it as part of our destiny to aid in
the maintenance and perpetuity of the institutions
of our country.
	We claim no religious liberty that we are un-
willing to accord to others.
	We ask for no civil or political rights which are
not granted and guaranteed to citizens in general.
	We desire to be in harmony with the Govern-
ment and people of the United States as an in-
tegral part of the nation.
	We regard all attempts to exclude aliens from
naturalization, and citizens from the exercise of
the elective franchise, solely because they are
members of the "Mormon" Church, as impolitic,
unrepublican, and dangerous encroachment upon
civil and religious liberty.
	Notwithstanding the wrongs we consider we
have suffered through the improper execution of
national laws, we regard those wrongs as the acts

[Column 3]

of men and not of the Government; and we in-
tend, by the help of Ominpotence, to remain firm
in our fealty and steadfast in the maintenance of
constitutional principles and the integrity of this
Republic.
	We earnestly appeal to the American press and
people not to condemn the Latter-day Saints un-
heard. Must we always be judged by the mis-
representations of our enemies, and never be ac-
corded a fair opportunity of representing our-
selves?
	In the name of justice, reason and humanity,
we ask for a suspension of national and popular
judgement until a full investigation can be had
and all the facts connected with what is called the
"Mormon" question can be known. And we ap-
peal to the Eternal Judge of all men and nations to
aid us in the vindication of our righteous cause.
		WILFORD WOODRUFF,
		GEORGE Q. CANNON,
		JOSEPH F. SMITH.
	Presidency of the Church of Jesus Christ of
Latter-day Saints.
		LORENZO SNOW,
		FRANKLIN D. RICHARDS,
		BRIGHAM YOUNG,
		MOSES THATCHER,
		FRANCIS M. LYMAN,
		JOHN HENRY SMITH,
		GEORGE TEASDALE,
		HEBER J. GRANT,
		JOHN W. TAYLOR,
		M. W. MERRILL,
		A. H. LUND,
		ABRAHAM H. CANNON,
	Members of the Council of the Apostles.
		JOHN W. YOUNG,
		DANIEL H. WELLS,
			Counselors.


“A Happy New Year” to all the friends, patrons
and readers of the EXPONENT.  May it be a pros-
perous one to the Saints and to all those who are
working for the good of humanity at home or
abroad.  In the year just dawning there will with-
out doubt be many great and important changes,
transpiring, for the work of advancement goes on
and the prophecies of ancient and modern
prophets, seers and revelators, are being and will
continue to be fulfilled.  There is always a sort of
sadness mingled with the joy which is awakened
in the heart by the advent of the New Year.
One cannot but tremble a little in crossing its
threshold knowing not what it will bring with it.
The writer hopes and most fervently too, that this
New Year 1890 may bring greater prosperity to
the EXPONENT and an increased circulation, so
that it may be able to appear in a new dress be-
fore the end of the present year.


The story we publish in this issue has taken so
much of the space that Reports of Conferences,
Suffrage items, death notices and other matter
had to be left over. Hephzibah will also be con-
tinued in Jan. 15.


BISHOP WHITNEY’S POEMS.

	A volume of poems fresh from the press is a
fitting tribute to the New Year, and the friends
and admirers of Bishop Whitney's literary work,
who have so long appreciated both prose and
poetry from his gifted pen, will welcome this new
book joyfully.  To those unacquainted with his
name and fame as an author, it will be some-
thing more than a genuine surprise--a veritable
feast of poetry and song. 
	The reading public have been anxiously wait-
ing the publication of the book, ever since the
local papers announced that the work was in the
hands of the publishers.  It has been looked for-


[Column 1]

ward to as a suitable holiday gift and such in-
deed it is. There is little need to speak of its
excellence, the book speaks for itself and the
Christmas Herald has left little for others to say;
however as this little paper published his first
efforts in the "long ago" it is eminently proper to
make some comment upon his advancement up
the rugged hill of progress, for it is beset with
thorns and briers, howbeit the young Bishop may
have gathered some of the choicest flowers, that
have shed a sweet fragrance in the hearts and
homes of others as he has strewn his flowers
of poesy from time to time freely in the pathway
of weary and worn toilers plodding onward in
this workaday world.
	Bishop Whitney's style is lofty, and char-
acterized particularly by a purity of tone notice
able is all he has written. His best pieces are of
a spiritual and exalted type and some of them
might be termed grandly majestic, for instance,
"The Ancient of the Mount" and "Immanuel—A
Christmas Idyl," and some others. He has also
written in a tender and pathetic style, as his
"Stanzas for Music" plainly indicate for they ap-
peal directly to the heart and affections, and are
suitable for singing in the soft evening twilight.
	His poems of comfort and sweet consolation to
the bereaved are full of tenderness and in this
particular gift of alleviating sorrow with his in-
tense sympathy he seems peculiarly to excel.
His last poem of this kind "Julia," is given in full
in this issue, and is an exquisite tribute to the
memory of one of his intimate friends.
	If the writer were asked to select passages
from the Bishop's best writings she would scarcely
know where to begin, having watched his literary
work carefully all the way along, therefore it
would be hard to choose from among such a rich
garden of variegated blossoms; and perchance
the selection might be one that would seem the
lowliest flower of all.
	We make one quotation from the poem entitled
"A Silent Sorrow."

	"There is a grief that chokes expression,
		Sad eyes whence tears may never fall;
	God pity him whose grief flows inward,
		For this the greatest grief of all."

	And again from "A Monody."—

	"In the springtime and spring of her life was she taken,
		When the pitying tears of young April were shed
	O'er the slumbering germlets of May, to awaken
	The sentinel flowers to vigil the dead."

	And the loveliest blossom the e'er fell from Eden,
		The fairest, most fragrant in purity's wreath,
	When the spring-heralds welcomed the life-giving season,
		Was slain by the frosts of the winter of death."

	Among the very best of the author's poems is
the one with which he closes his book, "Thought's
Martyrdom." It expresses the sensitive nature of
the poet and the writer as clearly as is possible
in words, the rapture, the ecstacy, the agony
and torture through which one passes who is
gifted with inspiration from the divine muse. If
time and space would permit we could go on
giving extracts and impressions of his poetical
writings in prose and poetry, for his prose is
poetry, as well as his rhythm; but suffice to say
his book contains many precious gems and,
 treasures, genuine pearls dived deep for down in
the sea of thought, and also bright fancies caught
on the golden thread of poetic enchantment:
truths clear cut as diamonds and well polished,
and altogether the contents are elevating and in
spirational in their tendency.
	The book is to be sold only by subscription,
Solomon F. Kimball having the agency, the prices
range from $1.50, to $2.00 and $2.75, according to
the binding. The paper is of a superior quality
and the covers are handsome especially that of
the highest priced. It is the most elegant book

[Column 2]

of poems in appearance that has been issued in
Utah. The book was published at the office of
the Juvenile Instructor.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[column 1]
IN MEMORIAM.
JULIA Y. BURTON.
	The sad, and it would seem untimely death of
Sister Julia Burton which occurred November 29,
1889—in Birmingham, England, has fallen heavily
indeed upon the young husband, and aged
mother; and the tender sympathy of hundreds of 
loving friends and relatives is extended to them 
in the midst of their sorrow in this great be-
reavement. Words are inadequate at such a time,
and yet they are all one can give to the mourner,
and sometimes they carry consolation, because of
the spirit that accompanies them, and the convic-
tion that they are spoken in such sincerity that
they fall like healing balm upou the wounded
soul.
	It is always with deep regret we chronicle the
death of a friend, and particularly so when one
passes away in the very prime of life, surrounded
with loving care and tenderness and all that
makes this world a desirable place to dwell in.
	Looking back one year it seems scarcely pos-
sible that so many we have known, young and
promising, could have been snatched away by the
destroyer, leaving their vacant places in happy
households
	True it is, that "in the midst of life we are in
death." and this seems plainly illustrated in the
sudden decease of Sister Burton; to be sure it
had become well known that she suffered from
some inward cause, but it was hoped and believed 
that with skillful treatment, she would rally again
if she were to undergo, as was anticipated would
be necessary, a surgical operation. But in this
case where the most ardent hopes of recovery 
were entertained, it proved fatal; just after the
news had reached her home and friends here in
this city, that the operation had been successfully
performed in England, whither she had gone to
obtain the best medical attention, came the startl-
ing message from over the sea, that Julia was
dead. To die away from home and native land
makes it sadder still for those on whom the fatal
blow falls with cruel force. And in this instance
to the young husband thus bereft, who can tell
the agony, or measure the depth of grief in his
sorrow-stricken heart as he journeyed homeward
across the migthy acean, lonely and bowed down
with his weight of woe? Only God knows the
pain and suffering endured under such heavy af-
flictions. But He who tempers the wind to the
shorn lamb, will not forsake the sorrowing hus-
band, nor the gentle, true hearted mother, brothers
and sisters and loved ones, who mourn her loss
here and miss her from her accustomed place in
the family circle.
	To those who knew her intimately Mrs. Burton
was greatly beloved; her lively temperament, her
vivacity of manner, her far-reaching hospitality 
together with many other endearing qualities of
head and heart, made her a general favorite, and
she will long be missed in the gatherings where
she was wont to be one of the gayest and hap-
piest of all the crowd.
	But with Julia all is well, she has gone in the 
full bloom of womanhood to join the innumerable 
company of the just made perfect, and there is no 
real cause for mourning, for she had doubtless
filled her earthly mission and having
participated in the blessings of the Gospel is pre-
pared to come forth in the morning of the resur-
rection to be reunited with her husband and par-
take of the blessings of immortality and eternal
lives in the celestial kingdom. The exquisitely
tender lines, of Bishop Whitney's which we give
below, express far better than this simple offering
[column 2]
to her memory, the love and tenderness with 
which her life was crowned.

			JULIA.
		As babe on mother breast,
		She softly sank to rest.
	Tread lightly—do not wake her—let her sleep.
		She has earned the sweet repose
		The ransomed spirit knows.
	Ne'er wake her—tho' her absence now we weep.

		From shadows of our night,
		She passed unto the light.
	A star sets here in splendor there to rise.
		Though the path of pain she trod—
		The footsteps of her God—
	Her feet now press the hills of Paradise.

		Would summon her again
		To world of woe and pain, 
	Whose false and fleeting pleasures do but seem?
		Ah I no; we'd have thee stay
		Where life is joy alway,
	And sorrow but the memory of a dream!
	
		Adieu! a kindlier soul,
		A gentler heart, the goal
	Of gladness and of glory ne'er did win.
		From golden gates above,
		Wilt thou not look in love,
	And glance with pity ere thou goest in?

		O Thou at whose command,
		Shall dust of every land,
	And ocean deeps deliver up their dead!
		One word of comfort speak!
		Bid hope's bright morning break
	In beams of blessings o'er the mourner's head!


A GLANCE BACKWARD.

I turned me backward more than forty years,
	And gazed upon a picture dim with age.
My eyes were blinded with the falling tears;
	I scarce could read the retrospective page;
And yet I knew the meaning passing well
Of that strange scene, the story I could tell.

'Twas written and engraved upon my mind,
	Then laid away in memory's silent hall;
And as with silken cords we sometimes bind
	Old letters, and the dearest things of all;
So I had folded up, and laid away,
The childish recollection of that day.

The fire blazed fitfully and shadows crept
	All through the rooms, like spectres in and out;
And the pale moonlight down the pathway swept,
	Silvering the vines and shrub'ry round about;
And in the distance, phantom like there stood
The trees that skirted round the neighborhood.

The lamps were lighted, and the tables set,
	And round the festive board of goodly cheer,
Old friends and true, long-parted now were met
	Seeking to banish ev'ry care and fear;
And join in happy converse with glad hearts,
Such as sweet music to the soul imparts.

The song and jest and merry tale went round,
	And each one sought to break the mystic spell;
But laughter echoed in a hollow sound.
	As though a shadow on the household fell— 
A premonition as it were of ill.
Seem'd ev'ry one assembled there to fill.

How is it that when joy is at its height,
	A shadow broodeth o'er the gayest scene?
When ev'ry pulse is throbbing with delight,
	Dark clouds like omens, come and intervene;
And smiles and gladness, quickly disappear
Before the consciousness of unknown fear.

Yet so it is, and often when we think,
	Our cup of happiness is running o'er,
E'en while we lift it to our lips to drink—
	A blast has shattered it forevermore;
Yet disappointment cometh not in vain,
Life's richest treasures, oft are bought with pain.


'Twas a fair company, a happy sight,
	The loved ones gathered in the dear old place;
And evermore, that memorable night
	Shines forth with something of a kindly grace,
Sad with that sweetness born of smiles and tears,
That hallows home, and glorifies the years.

There on that night, two lovers young and gay.
	Plighted their troth, and solemn promise made;
And even then, they felt some potent sway
	Of dread, the very atmosphere pervade,
But love is strong and vows of constancy
They interchang'd in fond expectancy.

Music and dancing whiled away the hours,
	And love and friendship bore a faithful part;
Sweeter than perfume of the rarest flowers
	Are these expressions of the human heart;
Ane O, with what delightful charms we grace,
The hearts and homes we’ve made our dwelling place.

At last the music ceased and all was still,—
	And then a busy hurrying to and fro.
And in the crisp night air "peace and good will,"
	Is the last benediction they bestow,
As from that home, each went their sep'rate way,
Nor ever met again as on that day.

But often in the years that followed fast,
	These friends, and brothers, sisters ev'ry one
Knew how prophetic were the clouds, that cast
	Such gloom and sadness, ere that night was done.
And what that household, and that home befell,
Where happiness and joy were wont to dwell.

Where now are those who sang the sweetest songs,
	Or told such wondrous tales of land and sea?
Do they forget that past to which belongs
	So much, that seemed a prophecy to be?
Ah me, what vigils, waking or in sleep,—
Tho' ever silent do our fancies keep.

Alas, how swiftly all the years have flown
	That intervene since that eventful day;
Tho' thorns and briers have been thickly strewn,
	As we have trod life's rough and rugged way
Yet still we hasten and brighter glow
The hopes, the talisman of "long ago."
		E. B. W.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
﻿CHRISTMAS THOUGHTS.

	Peace on earth good will to man, sung the
Angels;—for unto us a Child is born, unto us a
Son is given, and the government shall be upon
His shoulders. And His name shall be called
Wonderful Counselor, the Mighty God, the Ever-
lasting Father, the Prince of Peace.
	I sat in the quiet evening time and meditated on
the wondrous story of the incarnation of the Son
of God and of the love of God to man, and my
thoughts traveled back to the time more than
eighteen hundred years ago, and in imagination I
heard the angels sing “Glory to God in the
highest” and I could see the glorious star and the
Wise Men bending before the lowly bed of the
infant Jesus, and my heart throbbed with joy and
my spirit was filled with love as I contemplated
the glorious work of the Son of God,then I thought
of the Christmas approaching and how few while
in the midst of merriment and rejoicing would
remember Him whose birth they professed to
celebrate, and I knew that many would fill the
air with riot and drunkenness, and many would
blaspheme His Holy name; and my heart was
sad and I bowed my head and wept; and me-
thought a guide came to me and took me by the
hand and said, “Do you not know that these are
the Latter-days? And that the great work of the
Redeemer must and will be accomplished? Come
and look through the earth.” And I went, and
saw many things both in the abodes of the rich
and dwellings of the lowly, and I heard the merry
chimes of Christmas bells and saw troops of
happy children with hands filled with toys and
sweetmeats, and I saw houses and Churches
decorated with evergreens and great feasts were

[Column 2]
prepared; and many danced with glee and sent
gifts to one another; and some there were whose
hearts were filled with charity and love; and they
were pitiful to the poor and the oppressed and re-
lieved their wants with many good gifts, and they
caused the weary orphan to smile and the widows
heart to sing for joy because of the happy
Christmas time and the peace and joy they gave
returned fourfold into their own bosoms; for the
recording angel smiled because they would re-
ceive their reward from Him whose promise
never fails.; then I followed my guide to a large
and gloomy building enclosed with high walls,
and there were many men incarcerated therein
and some were criminals of the deepest dye, men
of violence and blood, men whose hearts were
hardened in sin, and others who were young with
the freshness of youth yet upon their brows, and
who were not yet hardened in crime; and some
were there who were guilty of no crime but were
imprisoned for conscience-sake, and they all
mingled together; the man steeped in sin and
wickedness, the youth, and the men who were
there for conscience-sake, and the friends of those
men whose hearts were filled with charity and
love sent them food and comforts in which all
shared and many good words were spoken to the
weak and erring and they were exhorted to seek a
better way and even the hearts of the prisoners
were made to rejoice because of the remembrance
of friends in the happy Christmas time and I know
that this also would receive a reward from Him
who said, I was sick and in prison and ye visited
me. . Then I thought I followed my guide to the
great cities of the old world and I saw many
Churches that were built some to St. Peter and some
Paul and to Saint Mary and Saint Jude, and there
were preachers preaching in them and tho’ they
sometimes spoke of the babe of Bethlehem; they
failed to warn the people that the second coming
of the Messiah was near at hand but instead they
said all things remain as they were from the be-
ginning until now; and some were asleep and
cared not, and some were fools and said in their
hearts, “There is no God.” And there were
secret combinations and society was shaken to
the foundation and great preparations for war
were being made,and there were strange diseases
and famine and earthquakes; then I thought of
the words of Him who was born, the babe of
Bethlehem. “When ye'see these things come to
pass know that the coming of the Son of man is
near at hand.”
	And then I thought we entered a building that
was not one of the Churches of the rich and
great, and many were congregated there and they
listened to the words of one, who had traveled
sea and land to bring to them the tidings that
God had again spoken from the heavens, and had
set His hand to bring about the restoration of all
things, warning the people to repent and be bap-
tized for the remission of their sins, and turn to
the Lord with all their hearts that they might be
prepared to meet the bridegroom. And some
there were that received this message gladly,
while others were exceedingly angry and said
“this fellow preaches strange doctrine;” we will
not hear a God speaking from the heavens, away
with him. And many men laid hands on him and
they beat him with many stripes and caused him to
flee unto another place, then I knew that the
same spirit that entered into Herod causing him to
murder the Innocents that he might destroy the
infant Jesus, was still upon the earth possessed
with great fury and determined to make war upon
the Saints because he knows that his time is short
and I also saw that the divine Spirit that filled
the hearts of the angels with love and joy when
they sang “Glory to God in the Highest;” on that
Christmas morning long ago, was still upon the
earth filling the Saints with faith and love and
enabling them to rejoice in the midst of trials and
persecution because they are looking and waiting

[Column 3]
for the second coming of Him who was born, the
babe of Bethlehem.
	Then with the eye of faith I was enabled to
pierce the future and I knew that the great work
of the Son of God would all be accomplished, and
not one of all the words that He had spoken
would fall to the ground, then I saw as in a vision
that all was changed and the earth no longer
groaned under a weight of sin and sorrow; for the
spirit that had made war so long against Him who
was once the babe of Bethlehem was bound with
a great chain and the earth was covered with
verdure and yielded her strength to man with
fruits of immortality, and in place of discord and
strife, there was peace and joy; for men had
thrown down their weapons of war and blood-
shed and had taken up the peaceful implements
of husbandry; and t y learned the art of war no
more; and deliverance was preached to the cap-
tive and the prison doors were opened. And
fathers and children rejoiced together; (and God’s
ancient people were restored), and instead of the
mosque of the Idolator a stately Temple was
raised to the name of the Most High and in it
they acknowledged the babe of Bethlehem as the
Messiah; and happy boys and girls were playing
in the streets of Jerusalem. And the whole
animal creation was subject to man as at the be-
ginning, and there was none to hurt or make
afraid for all nations acknowledged the reign of
the Messiah; who was once the babe of Bethle-
hem, and I understood how the government
would be upon His shoulders; and I heard my
guide softly whisper “Peace on earth good will
to man.”
					    PHEBE C. YOUNG.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


NATIONAL-AMERICAN W. S. A.

	The Twenty-Second Annual Convention will
be held at Washington, D. C., in the Church
of Our Father, corner of 11th and L. Streets,
Feb. 18, 19, 20, and 21, 1890.

	Each State society auxiliary to the National-
American W. S. A. is entitled under the new
constitution to elect its own representative on
the National-American executive board. State
Societies that have not yet done this are re-
quested to attend to it.
	State reports for the annual meeting should
be sent to the Secretary of the Programme
Committee, Mrs. Rachel Foster Avery, 748
No. 19th St., Philadelphia, Pa.


There are 1,300 women painters in Paris.


UNION PACIFIC
THE OVERLAND ROUTE
TICKETS
ON SALE
TO ALL
﻿PRINCIPAL POINTS
EAST, WEST,
NORTH and SOUTH
—AT—
UNION TICKET OFFICE,
Main Street, Salt Lake City.
C. E. INGALLS,     J. V. PARKER,
	 City Pass. Agt.	Div. Pass. Agt.

R.K.THOMAS
EAGLE EMPORIUM
SALT LAKE CITY.
The Leading Retail
Cash House.
R.K.THOMAS

Special to the Ladies.
AT TEASDEL’S
Will be found the latest styles and productions
in
LACES, RUCHES, EMBRODERIES,
FANS, GLOVES, PARASOLS,
RIBBONS, COLLARS, TIES
And an elegant assortment of
DRY GOODS.
	Special department for Ladies Misses’ and In-
fant’s Shoes.
		    112, 114, 116, 118 East Temple Street

DAVID JAMES & CO.
TINNERS GAS,WATER & STEAM FITTERS
	Agent for RUMSEY'S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from
the country promptly responded to.
	Address, DAVID JAMES, Box 308. SALT LAKE CITY.


W. S. A. ORGANIZATIONS.

	The Woman's Suffrage Association of Emery
Co., was organized at Castle Dale, Oct. 19th,
1889. Mrs. E. Howard of Salt Lake City was
chosen Chairman and Kathinka Andersen
Secretary pro. tem. Officers nominated and
sustained by vote. For Pres. Sarah Ann
Fulmer, of Orangeville; First Vice Pres. Mary
Ann Mc'Donough, of Castle Dale; Second,
Caroline A. Larsen, Castle Dale; Third, Adelia
Mackleprang, Huntington; Fourth, Paulina
Pace, Price. Secretary, Jenny Cox, Orange-
ville; Cor. Sec. Joanna, Curtis, Orangeville;
Treasurer, Marie Olsen, Castle Dale. Execu-
tive Committee, Amanda Shipp, Castle Dale,
Anne Pulsipher, Huntington; Jossia Childs,
Orangeville; Hannah Seely, Castle Dale;
Hannah U. Larsen, Castle Dale.
	All these nominations were solidly sustained.
Spirited speeches were delivered by several
of the ladies, including Mrs. Howard who ex-
plained the legal condition of woman clearly.
Mr. Wm. Howard made a very eloquent
speech on the subject also, all tending to stimu-
late the cause of the right and value of Wo-
man Suffrage in Utah and all the United
States.
	KATHINKA ANDERSON, Sec. pro. tem.

MASS MEETING AT LOGAN.
	Logan City Dec. 10th, 1889. At 10 a. m.
a Mass Meeting of the women of Cache Co.,
assembled in the Tabernacle for the purpose of
organizing a Woman Suffrage Association.
Mrs. E. Howard called the attention of the as-
sembly; singing, a fervent prayer was offered
by Lucy B. Young. Mrs. Howard explained
the object of the organization and read a por-
tion of an official call signed by influential
women of the County. Mrs. E. Howard was
elected Chairman and Mrs. Jane E. Molen
Secretary pro. tem. Speeches were then made
by Mrs. Adaline Barber, Mrs. L. B. Young and
Geo. Pitkin Esq., showing the necessity of a
Woman Suffrage Association in this county,
denouncing the action of the Utah Carpet Bag
Liberals, whose misrepresentations to Congress
deprived the women of this Territory of their
inestimable rights.
	The following ladies were unanimously
elected as officers. Mrs. William Sanders
Pres. Mrs. Julia Stewart, First Vice Pres. Mrs.
Mattie Hansen, Second, Mrs. C. I. Goodwin,
Third, Mrs. Jane E. Molen, Fourth, Mrs. E. J.
Jushaw Fifth, and Mrs. Julia Petty Sixth
Vice Pres. Mrs. Sarah Farr, Secretary, Miss
Mary Ann Thane Cor. Sec., Mrs. Marie
Thatcher,Treasurer. An Executive Committee
was then appointed. Mrs. Clara McAlister
Chairman, Mrs. Elizabeth Haines, Mrs.
Armenia Parry, Mrs. Martha Tarbett and Miss
Maggie Sloan as members of said committee.
78 names of ladies enrolled. Benediction by
Bishop Lewis.
		J. E. MOLEN.


NOTES AND NEWS.

	There are thirty-three women now studying
in the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.
	At the second examination in medicine held
lately at Bombay, a lady, Miss Alice
Mackenzie, was at the head of the list of suc-
cessful candidates.
	Mrs. Fannie B. Ward has started on a trip
as news correspondent through South America.
The journey will occupy a year, and will ex-
tend through every division of that country.
	John G. Whittier, the best beloved of all
American poets, passed his eighty-second birth-
day on the 17th inst. at his home in Ames-
bury, warmed by the love of millions who are
better for his having lived.


Miss Phoebe Couzins, of St. Louis, Mo., is a
candidate for a place on the Utah commission.
She argues that as the Mormon question in-
volves the interests of many thousands of wo-
men, at least one woman should have a place
on the board.	Ex.
	At Washington, D. C., Dec. 16, in the U.
S. Senate, a memorial was presented for the
admission of Wyoming as a State, and on the
same day a bill was introduced by Senator
Manderson, of Nebraska, for woman suffrage
in all the States.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.

