VOL. 18.			SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, DECEMBER 1, 1889.			No. 13.


CONTENTS.
	Not so Fast.—M. E. Kimball. Hephzibah.—A
Story. Leaves from my Journal.—M. J. Tanner.
The Mayflower at Plymoth.
	Editorial. Mormon Doctrine and the Court.
Seventy-one. An Eastern Trip. Editorial
Notes. Thorns and Roses.—Aretta. An Address.
—Mrs. Julia Cruse Howe.
	Semi-Monthly Meeting. Millard Co. W. S. A.
A Mass Meeting. Annual Washington Conven-
tion. Notes and News.
	Poetry. A Dream.—Ida May Davis. Long-
ing for Holiness.—L. M. Hewlings. Childless
Homes. Some Day of Days.—Elizabeth Stuart
Phelps. I Often Wonder Why ’Tis So.—A. J. R.


A DREAM.

The rose's heart is red, so red,
	The thrush's song is sweet, so sweet;
The west wind thro' the rushes play,
	To-day is happiness complete.

Ah, I forget how fast time flies!
	I thought this moment it was I,
Who smiling tossed her brown hair back,
	And to the song made soft reply.

It must have been the friendly touch
	The evening breeze laid on my brow,
I smooth my locks—the soft light melts,
	I know my head is snow white now.

Why mourn when I have but to look
	At eve, adown the purple lane,
And feel the cool wind's light caress,
	To live the olden days again.
						—IDA MAY DAVIS.


LONGING FOR HOLINESS.

O, for a holy faith, no terrors to discern,
	Oh for a clearer sight my path to trace,
Beyond all gloomy doubts of weakness or repining,
	Into the shining light of truth and grace.

Poor wearied soul, let not thy faith be shaken.
	Gaze up and onward toward that blissful clime,
Where all thy powers shall to new life awaken,
	No more to feel the chilling blight of time.

Dear Father draw to thee my lost affections back,
	Clear from mine eyes the mist that hides from view,—
Give the worn soul once more its pinions free
	To find the truer tife,—by grace renew.—

Touch and make pure and free the flame that knows not
		death,
	Bearing it up to heaven, love’s own abode,
O pity, and forgive all vain idolatry,
	And take from me I pray, this grievous load;

Chasten’d and school’d at last from worship vain I turn,
	To one whose voice alone can give me rest.
No earthly image in my heart shall sit enthron’d
	To mar my vision from the regions blest.
								L. M. HEWLINGS.


NOT SO FAST.

	While traveling through this short journey
of life we often meet bright, intelligent people,
whose earnestness of zeal and sincerity of heart
we admire, and find them quite agreeable com-
panions, because intelligence and sincerity are
always deserving admiration when coupled
with humility; without this we are apt to go
too fast, and jump at conclusions too readily.
	An instance of this kind occurred some time
[Second Column]
since. It was at the Assembly Hall on the
day of Judge Elias Smith's funeral.
	At that time a company of school teachers
were traveling through to California, and see-
ing the people gathering to this house they
came in, (that is a few of them), and after
taking seats the one who sat next to me made
some inquiry, and seeing the congregation had
not yet assembled we had a little chat.  In
reply to my question she told me they had just
arrived and expected to leave the next day,
also saying they were from Kentucky and New
Jersey. Her first question was  "What is the
Beehive emblematic of, which is painted on
the wall above the organ."  I told her it was
emblematic of us as a people. We belong to
the working class. She thought it a good
emblem; then asked the name of the President,
after telling her, she asked if he was on the
stand. 
	I told her the President of the Stake was
there, but not the President of the Church.
She wished to know if those were officers seated
there. I replied there were some of the Twelve
Apostles, Bishops and also Seventies, saying
this Church is organized according to the
ancient pattern of Jesus and His Apostles. She
asked quickly, "where do you get seventies."
I replied in the New Testament.
	No not in the Testament she replied I have
read the Testament and there is nothing of
seventies in it. I thought I could find it, but
could not tell the chapter and verse, accord-
ingly did not contradict her but let the subject
drop.
	After returning home I took the book to
search for Seventies. I found it in Luke 10
Ch. 1 vs. it reads: "After these things the Lord
sent forth other Seventy also, and sent them
two and two before His face into every city,
and place, whither He Himself would come."
And in the 17, vs. we read: "And the Seventy
returned with joy, saying Lord, even the devils
are subject to us through Thy name.
	A feeling of regret came over me as I called
to mind the bright, intelligent face of the
young lady who was so positive that I was mis-
taken. I was sorry from my heart that I
could not tell her the chapter and verse, be-
cause from her appearance she seemed to
possess honesty of soul and sincerity of heart.
But a little self conceit caused her to be too
fast in her decision of us as a people. I re-
membered that forty-eight years ago I was in
that position myself, and this honesty of soul
and sincerity combined helped me to see the
gospel as taught by the Saviour of the world.
At that time I could see that our minister was
too fast when he only used part of St. Paul's
words to convince me that I was wrong. 
	He said you must remember "Whether
there be prophecies they shall fail, and tongues
shall cease, leaving out the next line or clause
of the verse, (and knowledge shall vanish
away). Would he acknowledge this? oh no!
knowledge was increasing. So it seems in
temporal affairs; but what of the spiritual; I
leave this for yourselves to judge.
	I shall never forget how thankful I was to
see my mistake; and have always been thank-
ful that the gospel has been restored exactly as
the Saviour taught it when He was here;
knowing we could not be prepared to meet
Him under any other circumstances, or
another doctrine to that which He gave to the
human family. My Sabbath school lesson came
forcibly to my mind, we find in Mathew 7, Ch.
[Third Column]
21, vs. it is written, "Not every one that saith
Lord, Lord, shall enter into the kingdom of
heaven; but he that doeth the will of My
Father which is in heaven." 22, vs. "Many will
say to Me in that day, Lord, Lord, have we
not prophesied in Thy name? and in Thy name
have cast out devils? and in Thy name done
many wonderful works?" 23, vs. reads "And
then I will profess unto them, I never knew
you, depart from Me ye that work iniquity.
	This class of people I think are too fast.
They lean too much upon their own strength
and the wisdom called worldly wisdom. A
humble and a contrite spirit, putting our trust
in God which we can do when we keep His
commandments, will bring us His blessing.
	We have learned this lesson many times.
One time in particular was, when Johnson's
army came to destroy us as a people, root and
branch. Was there ever a time when we were
more earnest and sincere in calling upon God
our Father for wisdom, and the intelligence we
were then in need of? Did we get it? Yes the
army was defeated without one drop of blood-
shed.
	In this we rejoiced; but how did they feel?
They were angry; and felt that they could
have eaten us without a grain of salt. So we
were told. But our Father saved us while they
were called home and the privilege (if we may
say so) to shed blood to their hearts content.
Again our Saviour's words were fulfilled when
He said: "In the world ye shall have tribula-
tion but in Me ye shall have joy." Can any
one who lived in this valley at that time, be
doubtful, lacking faith in God to-day? No not
unless they forget God; If so, they should call
to mind that He never forgets any only those
who forget Him.
						M. E. KIMBALL.
	Nov. 11, 1889.


HEPHZIBAH.
					XII.

		Faith that alone withstands the heaving tide
			Of fond emotions in the human heart,
		Can sacrifice ambition, vanquish pride,
			And conquer love; must be of heav'n a part.

	How true it is that “man proposes but God
disposes,” and we in our own hearts sometimes
decide upon a course of life entirely different
to that which circumstances afterwards as it
were compels us to follow. Many young,
lovers have fondly dreamed of a blissful future,
but have been cutoff from its fulfillment in
one way or another, just when the charmed
cup of happiness seemed within their grasp.
Occasionally such events are the result of the
obstinacy or pride of one or the other; there
are also many other causes; but more often
perhaps it is on account of a distinctive dif-
ference in the position in society or in the
religious views. It is always better and safer
so far as possible to associate with those who
are of the same faith; it is true that in many
instances differences may spring up after
marriage, and that may be unavoidable, but
true happiness cannot exist where vital prin-
ciples are in question and opposing views en-
tertained. Many young people have separated
as these two did and looking at the matter,
seriously have taken up the duties of life, and
with the devotion that characterizes a genuine
faith, have been all the nobler because of the
self-sacrifice.


[Column 1]
	﻿In some instances we speak of these things
as fate and also as a dispensation of Providence,
but in this case as in some others of which
we have known the woman never forgot
in after years the sacrifice she made in
giving up this young lover of hers, who had
set her heart all aflame; but she could not
and would not deceive herself into the belief
that man’s love could compensate for that joy
she felt in her new found love of truth—and tho’
it was a hard struggle yet she conquered—that
her cousin’s intercession made it all the
harder for her, it is scarcely necessary to say.
Hettie’s badinage about young Mr. W. the
one just converted weighed nothing with
Lucy, her religion was first, and she avowed
her indifference to marriage in the strongest
terms. It was true however that the young
man referred to, was looked upon even by
the newly converted “Mormon” girls in the
village as a most desirable and agreeable com-
panion, and they liked to hear him in his elo-
quent though humble manner bear his testi-
mony, to the Gospel he had embraced.
	It was true that Mrs. Hathaway had sent
for Hepsie and also her married daughter Mrs.
Severance to come home and hear the Elders
preach. So sure was she that they would be
impressed, thst she wrote in the most positive
way;  and as they knew nothing of the
doctrines, or principles, they were almost as
eager to hear, as Mrs. H. was to have them.
They made the journey in their own carriage
instead of the stage, and only arrived in time
to get a warm supper, (for the weather was
cold) and attend the evening meeting which
was held in the district schoolhouse.
	Hepsie was overjoyed to be at home for a
short time, and on meeting her mother
noticed immediately the change in her appear-
ance, and childlike exclaimed, “O, mother
how beautiful your eyes are to night, how
they sparkle; and you seem ever so much
younger, what has happened.
	“My dear little girl this is what has happened
I have found the true Gospel, that the Savior and
his Apostles taught, and it has given me great
joy, and I have been baptized for the remission
of my sins, and have had hands laid upon my
head for the reception of the Holy Ghost and I
feel so happy, and I want you and Hannah, and
all my children and friends, to feel as I do
and rejoice with me. To night you will hear
the Elders preach from the Bible and not
spiritualize its sayings as the aectarian world
do, and their Priests and ministers,”
	“But” said Mrs. Severance “I have heard
that the “Mormons” have another Bible, and
that they believe its teachings as implicitly as
we do the Sacred Scriptures, and that it is a
golden bible, and that Joseph Smith pre-
tended to dig it up out of a hill in the State of
New York, and to translate it himself, tho’ he
was only an ignorant, uncultivated and un-
couth young man. He pretends God spoke to
Him and that He heard his voice.”
	“Well that is all true, it is not a pretense;
but you shall hear for yourself this very night,
and you will be convinced by the testimony
of truth, as I have been, that this new religion
is not a delusion, but the Everlasting Gospel;
and that the Elders who proclaim it are not
deceivers; but every man and every woman is
at liberty to judge of the truths proclaimed
whether they be of man, or from God.
	At this point Mrs. Severance spoke “mother
you know how sure you were years ago, that
you had experienced a real change of heart;
and your conversion was looked upon by our
minister as quite an event because of your pro-
nounced opinions upon all religious subjects,
and especially upon the old prophets, I was
only a girl then, about as old as Hepsie per-
haps, but I remember very well hearing good
old M. Ridelle, who used to change pulpits
with Mr.Spooner say, to Mrs. Spooner one night

[Column 2]
“Mrs. Hathaway a Congregationalist you sur-
prise me!” Mrs. Hathaway replied very quietly
that she had always felt sure that the
Scriptures admitted of no private interpreta-
tion, and now she had other authority than
her own assertion.
	“What other authority?’' inquired Mrs. S.
“the authority of the Elders who have been
sent out to preach repentance and baptism, and
other points of doctrine. But I want you to
hear for yourselves.”
	Hepsie was half-bewildered, she was weary
with the journey and annoyed with Mrs. S.
whom she thought disrespectful to her mother,
and she wanted to remain at home, her but
mother would not consent to it, and so they
all went on that memorable evening and heard
the Elders preach. This was almost six weeks
after the first baptisms had been performed and
there was considerable excitement over the
affair in this quiet old town. Uncle Rufus
still continued to befriend the Elders and was
very hospitable in entertaining them, but he
showed no signs of being converted. Uncle
Rufus' was quite a character in his way and
was never afraid to speak his mind either
upon religion, or politics; his wife was very
pious quite the opposite, and as a natural con-
sequence they were not one; in fact all the
villagers knew that Aunt Lydia “kept herself
to herself,” that is to say she occupied her own
apartments and Uncle Rufus did as he pleased
with the rest of the house; but when it come
to Mormon Elders the good wife objected,
though naturally enough Rufus carried the
day and as the house was a spacious one she
neither heard or saw them; as she had em-
phatically declared that she “could not endure
the sight of men, who went about sponging off
hard-working people, it was against her prin-
ciples, she was brought up to work for her
living.”
	But we must go back to the “Mormon”
meeting, it opened with the hymn.
		“Glorious things of thee are spoken
		Zion city of our God!
		He whose word cannot be broken,
		Chose thee for His own abode.”
	Hepsie was delighted with the singing it was
so lively she thought, and so different from
that she had been accustomed to hear in the
Churches, for in those days in the old towns in
New England, the tunes were rather common-
place and the choir girls (and Hepsie was one
of them) often wearied of the monotonous old
Psalm tunes with their long metres, and the
reader must remember that at that period the
usual method of “pitching a tune,” was with
“a tuning fork.'
	After the singing prayer was offered, and
that too was entirely different from the prayers
Hepsie had heard either in the Churches or at
the parsonage of the Rev. Erasmus Grovsenor.
The preaching was upon the first principles of
the Gospel, and references were made to the
New Testament almost exclusively, Hepsie was
not so attentive as she ought to have been, she
was excited, and nervous, and it was so new
and strange; she watched the countenances of
the speakers, and the effect of the discourse
upon her mother who seemed so intensely
exercised that it was apparent to all with
whom she associated.
	After the meeting closed the people crowded
around making inquiries and some applying
for baptism and Mrs. H. was greatly disap-
pointed when Mr. S. and wife both protested
that they were not in the least impressed and
did not intend to spend their time to hear such
foolishness; in vain Mrs. H. entreated them to
stay and talk to the Elders, or even listen to her;
no amount of persuasion would induce him
ever to sit and hear such talk again, said Mr.
S. and what he said his dutiful wife Hannah
acquiesced in. Mrs. H. saw it was useless to

[Column 3]
persuade though she could not help manifesting
her disappointment, but she thought then for
hope was buoyant in her breast, that in time
they would be convinced that she was right.
She had been such a wise mother and her
children looked up to her with great rever-
ence, indeed she had actually supplied the
father’s place so far as that is possible. “My
boys will believe as I do I am sure they will;”
she said with a great degree of confidence,
after they had returned from the meeting,
and were talking with each other around the
fire.
	The room where they were seated was long
and low—with oak-paneling and very little
that was bright in it, except as the fitful blaze
of the pine-knots in the wide fire place re-
flected on the walls and old-fashioned furniture.
There were tall brass andirons and they shone
brightly and the hearthstone was a brilliant
red, there was no carpet, a painted floor and
rugs laid down for warmth, as it was winter-
time;— Hepsie glanced around as if she
expected to see a change in the room,
but she only observed the shadows and glim-
mers from the fire-light and remarked to her
mother, “how weird everything looks in this
room, or is it because I have just come home,
and it is strange after being away so long.”
	“It is only your childish fancy; we thought
you would like the fire of pine knots and so
we piled it up high to-night to gratify you and
would not light either lamps or candles, know-
ing your love of shadows.”
	The great clock that stood in the corner
struck the midnight hour before Hepsie had
retired, or would confess to weariness so much
did she enjoy the play of the fire light and
the pictures she saw in the burning coals.
Her mother too was a fair picture to gaze upon
for Hepsie was beginning to comprehend true
womanliness. She remembered years after the
very dress she wore and how she admired for
almost the first time in her life,her magnificent
figure and bearing. She began to see now how
it was that Mrs. Hathaway had been disliked
by her husband’s family; it was envy; she
thought that night she had never looked upon
her like before. Her forehead was high and
her wavy hair clustered round it gracefully,
her mouth was perfect, in shape and outline,
lips cherry, and her eyes were heaven’s own
blue; around her neck which was well propor-
tioned she wore a string of amber beads, and
over her shoulders a heavily embroidered
crape shawl; her dress was a soft grey pongee
and as Hepsie looked intently into her mother’s
wonderfully expressive eyes, she thought, as
she many times thought afterwards. “Would
I could paint her portrait, and write her life
history.”
	Such women were those who knew the sound
of the Gospel when it was first preached in
their hearing: they needed no testimony be-
yond their own conscience and convictions, but
time would fail to tell the lives of women like
this one, their record is laid up in the archives
of the angels, and the world knows them not.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


Mary Hallock Foote, in her pictures of the
Far West in the Century, says the life of the
men may be large and dramatic, even in fail-
ure; but the life of women here, as everywhere,
is made up of very small matters,—a badly-
cooked dinner, a horrible wall paper, a wind
that tears the nerves, a child with something
the matter with it which the doctor “doesn’t
understand,” an acquaintance that is just near
enough not to be a friend; it is the little shocks
for which one is never prepared, the little dis-
appointments and insecurities and failures and
postponements, the want of completeness and
perfection in anything that harrows a woman’s
soul and makes her forget too often that she
has a soul.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


CHILDLESS HOMES.

God pity the homes where no children’s feet
Run in on the carpet with mud from the street;
For their merry laugh and their love intense,
For faults like this more than recompense.

God pity the homes the whole world ’round,
In which no children bless’d are found;
For be it the home of the poor or great,
A home without children is desolate. 

God pity the man, who with all life’s care,
Has no roguish baby to pull his hair,
As home he returns at eventide,
And sits him down by his own fireside.

God pity the woman whose snowy neck
No children’s encircling arms bedeck;
For no jewels of gold, or rubies rare,
In beauty and richness with these compare.

God pity the woman upon whose breast
No child was e’er sung to its evening’s rest;
For no song e’er tossed on the peaceful air
With a mother’s lullaby can compare.

God pity the homes, the whole world ’round,
Wherein no children sweet are fonnd;
For be it the home of the poor or great,
A home without children is desolate.
							— Lynn Item.
'


SOME DAY OF DAYS.

Some day, some day of days, treading the street,
		With idle, heedless pace, 
		Unlooking for such grace,
		I shall behold your face!
Some day, some day of days, thus may me meet.

Perchance the sun may shine from skies of May,
		Or winter’s icy chill
		Touch lightly vale and hill;
		What matter I shall thrill
Through every vein with summer on that day.

Once more life’s perfect youth will all come back,
		And for a moment there
		I shall stand fresh and fair
		And drop the garment, care;
Once more my perfect youth shall nothing lack.

I shut my eyes now, thinking how ’twill be,
		How, face to face, each soul
		Will slip its long control,
		Forget the dismal dole
Of dreary fate’s dark, separating sea.

And glance to glance, and hand to hand in greeting.
		The past with all its fears,
		Its silence and its tears,
		Its lonely yearning years,
Shall vanish in the moment of that meeting.
				—ELIZABETH STUART PHELPS.


I OFTEN WONDER WHY 'TIS SO

	Some find work where some find rest,
		And so the weary world goes on;
	I sometimes wonder which is best;
		The answer comes when life is gone.

	Some eyes sleep when some eyes wake,
		And so the dreary night-hours go;
	Some hearts beat when some hearts break;
		I often wonder why 'tis so.

	Some wills faint where some wills fight,
		Some love the tent, and some the field,
	I often wonder who are right—
		The ones who strive, or those who yield?

	Some hands fold where other hands
		Are lifted bravely in the strife;
	And so thro' ages and thro' lands
		Move on the two extremes of life.

	Some feet halt when some feet tread,
		In tireless march, a thorny way;
	Some struggle on where some have fled;
		Some seek when others shun the fray.


Some swords rust where others clash,
	Some fall back where some move on,
Some flags furl where others flash
	Until the battle has been won.

Some sleep on while others keep
	The vigils of the true and brave:
They will not rest till roses creep
	Around their name above a grave.
								A. J. R.


[Column 1]
	LEAVES FROM MY JOURNAL.
BY M. J. TANNER.
			[Continued.]
	Trout Lake, N.Y. Wednesday, June 17, 1885.
Aurilla and I go strawberrying this morning.
One of the hired men is going up in the woods
with the truck, (the running gears of the
wagon coupled long for hauling logs,) and we
ride with him as far as Caleb's home. Caleb
lives on the farm where my husband's grand-
mother used to live. The place looks dilapi-
dated and it is very hilly and rocky all around.
We go in the house awhile and call on his wife.
They have some fine looking children but his
wife looks over-worked and careworn.  Her
cheek has lost its rose, and her form its round-
ness, and the only prospect I see before her to
bring encouragement is in her children.  She
strives as many a noble woman has striven,
through poverty and toil, to raise them the
best her circumstances will admit.  She is
cheerful, and gives us a pleasant welcome.  We
go over to the "foller," a piece of land where
the trees have been cut and the stumps not yet
cleared out.  It is used for meadow but it
would be impossible to use machinery to cut
the hay on account of the rocks, hills and
stumps.  I have been quite anticipating my
strawberry trip. They tell me that the wild
strawberries are much finer flavored than the
cultivated ones, and the thought of searching
among the grass and flowers for the luscious
fruit carries me back to my childhood days
once more.  After searching awhile we find a
few small berries not much larger than a good
sized pea.  I pass them by with disdain, but
finally Aurilla says she thinks we will not find
any better ones and we commence picking, the
largest of course always finding the way to my
mouth.  The sun is very hot, but a cool breeze
finds us now and then.  Aurilla and I get
separated. Sometimes I look for her and find
the object of my scrutiny but a big black
stump; for the "foller" has been burnt over to
get rid of the brush and debris of the fallen
trees; and sometimes when I think I see a
stump in the distance it moves and I know it
is her. *	    *
	We spend the afternoon with Caleb and his
family and walk home, about a mile.  The road
is through the woods which are filled with
blossoms, and the air is sweet with their per-
fume.  Blackberries, raspberries, and thimble-
berries are putting forth their blossoms with
promise of an abundant harvest.	*	*	
	Aurilla makes a strawberry-shortcake for
supper and it certainly is delicious.  After
supper we go for a row on the lake, Bertha
and Eppie and I, Bertha is Becky Ann's thir-
teen year old daughter an over-grown girl with
bright black eyes and a promise of something
better than life at present affords for her.
Eppie a boy of about eighteen is one of David's
hired hands.  He has a fine intelligent face,
and as we float out on the glossy water they
sing together, and as their voices mingle in the
soft twilight, I weave a little idyl for their 
future.  We go to the fartherest end of the lake
which is about two miles, around twin islands,
and back by echo point, where they send their
voices out in shouts and laughter, to be taken
up and repeated again and again.  The bank
of the lake opposite Mr. Putney's is lined with
[Column 2]
woods and is pointed out to me as lovely picnic
grounds.  I can readily believe it, and think I
would like to go over there some day.  We
gather a few yellow water-lilies, the white ones
are not in bloom yet.  As we land on the bank 
we promise ourselves another row.
	Thursday, June 18.  Caleb gets a horse and
buggy, and takes me out to see the country.
We visit the cemetery and walk about
among the graves of a bygone generation.  The
roses are in bloom and earth looks very
pleasant, just as it looked to them, perhaps fifty
or a hundred years ago.  I see the names of
many people that I have heard mother Tanner
talk about, and write them down in my journal.
Here lies Father Tanner’s wife who died before
mother married him, and I write down the
epitaph from her tomb stone.  After leaving
the cemetery we drive along the road past
lovely cottages and pleasant farmhouses, with
beautiful waters of Lake George ever in view,
dotted here and there with green islands; three
hundred and sixty-five, they tell me, just cor-
responding with the days of the year.  We stop
at Artemus Tanner's, a cousin of my husband,
where Caleb introduces me as his cousin's wife
from Utah.  Artemus has a nice family con-
sisting of his wife, two daughters and a grand-
daughter. They invite me to stay and Caleb
leaves me here where I spend a pleasant even-
ing.
	Friday June, 19.  Weather pleasant, cool in
the morning but quite warm in the afternoon.
It looks like some of our canyon country.
Large mountains in the distance and hills and
trees all around.  After tea Mrs. Tanner goes
with me for a walk on the hill. The black
berries are not ripe yet and she fears they will
be small on account of the dry weather, they
have not as much rain as usual this summer.
We have a lovely view of the Lake and sur-
rounding country.  We pick a few juniper
berries for it grows all over the hill and I am
told is a great nuisance in this part of the
country.  It is a low sprangly bush and looks
some like our dwarf cedar.  We gather winter-
green which grows here in profusion.
	Bolton, Saturday, June 20. * *   Artemus
went to Glen's Falls yesterday but is at home
today, and has promised to give me some items
of family history.  Mrs. T. is a pleasant in-
telligent woman and we are having a nice
visit.  I have been writing home, and learning 
some knitting patterns, Mrs. T. has a knit quilt 
which she put in the fair. * *
	Sunday, June 21. Mrs. T. who is a Baptist 
went to church and Artemus sat down to give
me the long promised family history or rather
such records as he had of it, which I carefully 
note down for further use.  After dinner we
go for a ride and call on Mr. Perkins a cousin
of the family, Mr. Perkins is not in but Mrs.
Fuller, the lady of the house, who is a cousin,
entertains us, and I get a few geneologies from
her.  Mrs. Tanner, Mrs. Fuller and I go down
to the lake for a walk.  We have a fine view,
and I try to find a few pebbles or shells to
carry home, but find little worth notice.  After
supper Mr. T. takes me to Mr. Putney's where
they all welcome me warmly.


THE MAYFLOWER AT PLYMOTH.

	There has been completed recently at the
capital a painting which is attracting much
attention, not only for the artistic features of
the work but also for the historic interest
attached. The painting is the work of
Harrison Eastman, of Washington. It repre-
sents the arrival of the Mayflower at Plymoth
Rock. The picture was painted for Mrs. Le-
land Stanford, wife of Senator Stanford, of
California, and is the result of long and la
borious research on the part of the artist. It
is said that the price paid for the work is
$25,000.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.
WOMAN'S EXPONENT.	
EMMELINE B. WELLS, - 	Editor.	
	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah. Terms:
ne copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months, 50 cts. No
eduction made for clubs. City papers delivered by mail,
xtra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space, one time, $2.50, per month, $3.00. A liberal discount
o regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, No. 25 E., South Temple Street, second
gate east of Deseret News Office. Business hours from 10 a.m
to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday. 
	Address, all business communications to
			     PUBLISHER WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
								SALT LAKE CITY. UTAH. 
	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
Second Class Matter.
SALT LAKE CITY,      -              -         DECEMBER 1, 1889.


MORMON DOCTRINE AND THE COURT.

	The Court in session in this City has for the
past two or three weeks given great attention to
the subject of qualifications for citizenship; and
with this one simple fact, they have brought in
almost every principle of the Church, and one
would think instead of a case of naturalization
only,that the whole Church was on trial before His
Honor Judge Anderson. Books and Journals'
daily papers, etc., were ransacked to prove the
falsity of the position and attitude of this humble
people. It would be ridiculous and laughable if
it were not so serious, to see and hear the
harangues and disputations going on during the
proceedings of the case. Surely the Judges,
lawyers and marshals with their clerks will soon
attain a great degree of perfection in “Mormon’,
doctrine, if they will only turn it to good account;
they may be glad at some future time to accept
some of the principles they so strongly condemn.
	It seems almost impossible that men of intelli-
gence and ability should show so much an-
tagonism to a peaceful, industrious and unassum-
ing people.
	How it can be possible to go to such extremes
and with such venom as has been manifested by
the opposition, one who is in his sober senses can
scarcely comprehend. To cap the climax send
a man up for contempt because he rufuses to
answer a question that has “nothing to do with the
case,” whatever,and treat him as a criminal,seems
this incompatible with any precedent heretofore
established even against “Mormons.” It was
plain enough to every one of ordinary intelligence
that it was intended to make an example of
Elder Penrose, and besides, it was putting him
where he could not give his views through the
most popular medium, that of the press. To im-
prison a man for not answering an irrelevant ques-
tion upon a matter for which he had already re-
ceived the pardon of His Excellency the Presi-
dent, of the United States will scarcely be con-
sidered a wise thing to do even by the honorable
men,who belong to the opposing party.
	When the case closed Elder Penrose was re-
leased by the order of Judge Anderson notwith-
standing there were those so full of hatred and
spite they would have stretched a point or two or
more to have kept him longer in durance vile.
	During this case of rights of citizenship the
witnesses have been catechized as though they
were all hereties, and were on trial for their life.
No one can help seeing, if they read all the evi-
dence and speeches etc. but that “Mormonism”
can well afford to be put on trial on its merits.
	“There are more in things heaven and earth than
are dreamt of in our philosophy.”  So with
Mormonism it contains so much: they have not
yet compassed the earth, and the heavens they
fortunately cannot.


[Column 1]
		      SEVENTY-ONE.
	On Wednesday evening Novenber, 20th, a
select party of friends of Mrs. M. Isabella Horne,
met by invitation at the residence of her daughter
Mrs. Clara E. James, to offer their congraulations
and celebrate with appropriate festivities the
birthday anniversary of this honored lady.
	The weather being unfavorable many were
hindered from coming, but there was a goodly
company assembled in Mrs. James handsome
parlors, and Mrs. Horne’s daughters (there were
four of them present) know how to entertain socially
so as to make every one feel at ease.
	President Wilford Woodruff and President Geo.
Q. Cannon were present, Bishop Geo. H. Taylor,
David James Esq., and other gentlemen besides
a large number of ladies. Most of the evening
was devoted to social conversation, but about nine
or half past nine, the attention of the guests was
called and Mrs. Lula Greene Richards read an
original poem, which we give below.

		SEVENTEEN AND SEVENTY-ONE.

	This morning, ere ’twas light,
	A vision, fair and bright,
	Pass'd happily before my restful mind;
	It was of you, my sister, true and kind.

	I saw your life serene,
	When you were Seventeen;
	Just like an opening floweret, pure and white;
	No spot nor blemish mar’d the grateful sight.

	As flowers' first fragrance rise
	To him, who formed the skies,   
	So was your maiden loyalty expressed,
	To that great God, of all friends dearest, best.

	Life’s battle thus begun,
	Was, from the first half won;
	And I’ll not use the precious time to-night,	
	To show your brave defence of Truth and Right.

	No bloom, on bush or tree,
	More perfectly we see,
	Developing to fruits of lasting worth,
	Than marks your noble mission on this earth.

	More, I need not rehearse,
	The numbers we’ll reverse,
	And find you still, in beauteous life serene,
	Now Seventy-one, yet fair as Seventeen.
	With all good wishes for our Evening Queen.

	After the reading, Pres. Cannon in a few well
chosen words expressed his pleasure in being
present to celebrate the natal day of one whom he
so much esteemed, and referred to his long and
intimate acquaintance with Brother and Sister
Horne, congratulated Sister Horne on attaining
such length of days and still retaining her health
and usefulness, made general remarks upon other
matters, and concluded with asking God to bless
Brother and Sister Horne and their family.
	Pres. Woodruff spoke for some minutes in a
similar strain, referring, however, more particu-
larly to the days that were past, the associations
in earlier times with Joseph the Prophet, and the
Apostles who were now gone behind the veil. He
spoke with great fervor and earnestness, and ex-
pressed many good wishes for all present and im-
plicit faith in the future glory of Zion.
	Sister Presendia L. Kimball, who is now in her
80th year, also expressed her pleasure in being
associated with the friends with whom she de-
lighted to mingle, congratulated Sister Horne,
and asked the blessing of heaven upon all those
assembled.
	Delicious refreshments with ice cream, fruits
and sweetmeats were served to the guests and the
conversation became general. It was a pleasant
evening profitably spent, and the guests retired
from the house with every expression of good will
and prayers for future happiness here and here-
after. The writer adds her congratulations and
friendly greetings and trusts to see Mrs. Horne

[Column 2]
after another decade, as active and useful as she
is to-day.


AN EASTERN TRIP.

	Mrs. Elmina S. Taylor, Pres. of the Y. L. M. I.
A. and her daughter Miss Mae Taylor, left this
city September 3, to visit friends and relatives in
the East. The ladies went by way of Denver,
Kansas City, Memphis and Chattanouga, the
land of cotton and sugar cane, taking note of all
the beauties of the route and enjoying the rich
scenery, landing in Norfolk Va., at the St. James
Hotel, where they expected to take steamer for
New York. Norfolk is an old and celebrated
town and consequently possesses many historic
attractions for travelers.
	Mrs. Taylor and her daughter were interested
in the town and went to several of the historic
localities. One of the principal features to be
admired was St. Paul’s Church.  It was standing
in the time of the Revolution, and in the South
East corner under the eaves, the bullet is still re-
maining that was fired into it at that time; the
windows are “memorial,” of lovely stained
ground glass. The Church is built in the form of
a cross and in the upperend of the cross is an
ancient pipe organ, which must have been very
elegant, winding stairs on the outside of the
Church lead up to it. The building has four gal-
leries, one for the organ, and one at the foot of
the cross where the singers sit, and one in each
arm of the cross probably for seating the congre-
gation. It was covered with ivy outside every-
where except the windows and where memorial
stones were set in with inscriptions for the dead.
	One of the curiosities to be seen was the John
Hancock chair, donated by a member of the Han-
cock family and on the arm of it was a silverplate
relating the circumstance of its being the chair in
which the celebrated man John Hancock sat
when he signed the Declaration of Independence.
It is of the old style straight backed and leather
bottomed. The Church is kept in good repair
nd services still held in it regularly. Outside
were the most beautiful flowers one a specimen of
crepe myrtle, Mrs.Taylor and daughter describe
it as one of the most delicate and lovely things
they ever saw.
	When leaving the City they drove to the Navy
Yard which was very interesting; while there it
commenced raining, from there they drove to the
Old Dominion dock also a place of interest, and
took the steamer Roanoke for New York.
	The usual time for the ocean trip is from 22 to
26 hours, but such was the gale that it took 6o
minute—the gale blowing at the rate of 70 miles an
hour; the shutters were closed and hatchway
nailed down; the storm was the most severe that
had swept that coast since 1846. The ladies suf-
fered from sea-sickness very much, all on board
were sick even the colored employees accustomed
to these voyages were ill. Mrs. Taylor and
daughter however in the midst of this terrific
storm relied with implicit, faith upon the promises
made them previous to their departure that they
should go and return in safety.
	On arriving in New York after this unpleasant
voyage, they went over the Hoboken Ferry to
Jersey where they found their friends who had
been several times to the station to meet them.
	While in New York the ladies visited Centra
Park which they greatly admired especially the
Metropolitan, museum and to Miss Taylor all the
places were new, Old Trinity Church, Stock Ex-
change, Greenwood Cemetery and the Equitable
Building, where great pains was taken to show
them when they were informed they were from
Utah; the vaults, the safes, the private rooms,
and explained the signals etc. rent for these safes
run from $15 and 20, to 400 per month, the whole
building inside is finished in marble and iron, with


brass railings nine feet high, and is very elegant
throughout.
	Mrs. Taylor visited relatives in Bloomfield,
Mt. Claire, Newark N. J. and also the house where
her husband’s mother was born. In Central New
York, Rochester Cincinnatus and other places,
she also visited Palmyra where the hill Cumorah
is situated and though there was nothing in par-
ticular to mark the sacred place gathered some of
the native wild-flowers and pressed them as a re-
membrance. They also visited Niagara Falls and
had a most delightful day in viewing this magnifi-
cent natural curosity. Mrs. Taylor and daughter
returned home in excellent health and spirits hav-
ing richly enjoyed the journey including of course
the storm on the ocean.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


EDITORIAL NOTES.
	In the “In Memoriam" of Mrs. George Dun-
ford published in our last issue, it was stated that
she came to the valley in 1868, it should have been
1867.
	The Gilmore chorus of four hundred under the
tutelage of Br. E. Stephens have formed an or-
ganization for training in music and will no doubt
accomplish a good work and be prepared for giv-
ing concerts and Oratorio, singing, etc. We
would rejoice to see Salt Lake City make rapid
progress in the development of music which is
undoubtedly, we think, the most refining and soul-
stirring of all arts, or professions.
	The Conference of the Relief Society of the
Salt Lake Stake will be held in the 14th Ward
Assembly Hall in this City on Thursday Decem-
ber 19th meetings commencing at 10, a. m. and
2, p. m. as usual. A representation from each
branch of the Relief Society is earnestly desired,
and it is sincerely hoped there will be a large
attendance of the members, as this is a time when
union and a faithful discharge of duty on the
part of each individual member seems impera-
tive. Bishops and other brethren, are most
cordially invited to attend the Conference as
also all interested in this benevolent organi-
zation.


[Column 1]﻿
		THORNS AND ROSES.
	Nature teaches that we cannot find a calm un-
troubled stream of light and life.
	Winter comes with icy sceptre held on high
and when his breath is felt the world’s wild pulses
cease to beat and all her gladsome songs are
hushed; but Summer follows with her hand of
warmth and loosens all his frigid chains.
	Night comes, and wraps his sombre mantle
round the earth—mantles, dark, and cold, and
chill but day light drives night shades away.
	The storm-king often beats down sorrow and
dismay, but sunshine always follows rain.
	Through all, the biting cold, the genial warmth,
the dark and light, the storm and calm, we tread
life’s hill-side path, yet never tread that path
alone. There are many pilgrims ever near, and
our  walks must temper theirs for good or ill.
Our tracks we leave and round them thorns or
roses fall—a portion from the harvest of our lives.
This is the largess we are bound to give to mother-
earth, to fellow-man.
	We meet a stranger sad and wan, we pass him
on our way; and does the look we give bring
smiles upon the troubled face, or does the frown
but darker grow? Did we drop roses in his path,or
was it but a thorn?
	A friend is near, one delicate and frail; we love
that friend, but watching, see her step aside.
Wrong thoughts she tells to us, and yet we do not
chide, but let it pass lest we should wound her
tender, loving heart, or lose the kind regard we
prize, Is that the strongest proof of friendship’s
[Column 2]
worth, and have we warm roses for her head, or
for that dear one wreaths of thorns?
	Another friend now comes to us in noble manly
pride. Temptation lures him, he loves the wine-
cup’s ruddy glow, but friends can trust such
strength as his; a fair hand takes the cup he loves
and holds it to his lips. ‘Tis given with a smile
but does it hold sweet flowers for the garlands of
his life and they hide no stinging thorns?
	Love comes to woo: we see him there and give
kind welcome by some pretty act. We watch the
pleadings of his face, and hear his ardent voice;
caress the true and trusting heart; accept the
treasures it doth bring, then cast them all away.
	What cruel work our hands have done—heart
strings are rent apart; wounds are bleeding where
we thrust the cruel thorns; and would we hide
the wrong we’ve done, hide that breaking heart
beneath white roses,they are stained, their beauty
turns to blight.
	At “home sweet home,” that dearest spot on
earth, is mother’s gentle, precious form. Her face
is ever near, and have we looked to see if time
were tracing there the deep hard lines of care, or
if the smiles of peace were wreathing halo's soft,
serene and fairer than the flesh of youth?
	Whence came the hard lines on that loving face?
Have our lives but twined round her’s a network
all of thorns? Whence came the peace the
reverential light? Oh! it rejects the love that
roses breathe, the rich perfume of garlands fair
that we hsve woven round that mother’s life.
	And father, must he toil and spend his strength
to bring the wealth that we would have? and is it
more, much more than we would need if we could
feel the achings of his careworn mind? Do soft
hands sometimes touch his throbbing brow and
wipe the sweats away! Are kisses printed there
among the furrowed lines? Is he entwined with
love’s sweet gifts? Do we scatter thorns,or roses
for his tired blistered feet to tread upon?
	Brothers, sisters God has given us, the good
the beautiful and true. 'Tis they who share the
joys the cares, triumphs and failures which are
ours. Sometimes those loved are called to
heaven’s bright realms. We stand beside the dead
to say a long good-night, a last farewell. In fond
tones now we breathe to them the fairest words
that tongue hath ever told—I love you, oh! I love
you, dear—and are we heard? Can dead ears
hear, cold lips feel affection's kiss, the marble
brow and stiffened hand our warm caress?
	Why gather roses for them now when we have
left that task so long undone?
	Why pluck rough thorns from off the grave
where silent ashes sleep?—the living loved! O
let us give them now the treasures of our hearts
before it is too late!
	Let flowers be the gifts we bring for strangers
and for friends. Flowers for the ones beloved while
they are here to know the worth and beauty of the
treasures that we give.
	And let us never scatter cruel, poisoned thorns
where one can feel their sting.
	In the school-room here where angels come to
mark the records, not of words and acts alone, but
of the silent heart thoughts too, is there a place
more mete than this wherein to learn these lessons
for the soul?
	We are weaving now, a chaplet fair for teachers
and for friends—Schoolmates, whose hands will
place the roses there, and whose the cruel thorns!
								ARETTA.	
	Written for an exercise in General Theology,
L. D. S. College, Salt Lake City, Nov. 15, 1889.


[column 1]
AN ADDRESS.
BY MRS. JULIA CRUSE HOWE.

	In addressing the members of Mutual Improve-
ment Associations of this Ward this evening, I
[column 2]
desire to say something that may cause you to
more fully realize your privileges and blessings;
and the consequent responsibilities that rest upon
you as intelligent sons and daughters of God.
	These Associations were organized by inspira-
tion, that you my young brethren may qualify
yourselves for Missionaries—and for other respon-
sible duties pertaining to building up the Church
and Kingdom of God, and establishing righteous-
ness upon the earth. And the mission of woman
is of equal importance and their duties as varied
as that of the brethren. Our exaltation hereafter
will be in proportion to our faithfulness and dili-
gence in this probation. 
	It is our privilege to stand as saviors upon
Mount Zion. And I realize that there is a field
open in this direction, in our own midst. And it
is your privilege and duty to use your influence in
stemming the tide of infidelity that is creeping in
amongst us. This may seem a harsh expression,
but I will admit, there are many young gentleman
and ladies who ignore the necessity of these As-
sociations—and who take pleasure in the vanities
and customs of the Gentile world, and love their
society. And though innocent of any intentional
wrong—yet they stand on dangerous ground.
	There is a sort of science which is termed
"Mind Cure;" faith in which is gaining ground
among us. There is also spiritual, or religious
science, an attractive name to catch the unwary.
	And at our fourteenth Ward meeting a few
weeks ago, a sister was telling of some young
people of her acquaintance being infatuated with
an instrument called the Planchette. Some present
may not know what this instrument is like, and I
cannot describe it for I never saw one, but twenty
years ago, or more, when spiritual rappings were
the craze, I was visiting a family of a prominent
member of the church, and they regretted very
much that their Planchette was loaned out, and told
of its wonderful operations. For instance, a
young lady present, whose father, by the bye, at
the time of his death was one of the three first
presidents of the church, enquired through this
instrument the name of the man she would marry.
The instrument wrote the name, and wonderful
to relate in the same peculiar handwriting as the
gentleman's own autograph.
	She subsequently married this man, and they
are both apostates. And soon after this the
family previously referred to, apostatized, and
professsed to have revelation from God, and they
became infidels to the Gospel revealed through
the Prophet Joseph Smith.
	This is only one of many instances, that might
be related, to show the evil result of tampering
with things that are in opposition to the teachings
of the Priesthood, and which conflict with the
principles of the Gospel.
	John the beloved disciple of Jesus, in one of
his Epistles said: "Beloved, believe not every
spirit, but try the spirits whether they are of God;
because many false prophets are gone out into the
world, and this was the test in that day. Every
spirit that confesseth not that Jesus Christ is
come in the flesh, is not of God. The test to-day
is—those who deny that Joseph Smith conversed
with God the Father and His son Jesus Christ—
and that the Priesthood was restored through him
with all its gifts and blessings, the gifts of healing,
prophecy, speaking in tongues, interpretation of
tongues, etc., is not of God.
	I can testify that these blessings are in the
Church at the present time, though not to the ex-
tent it is our privilege to enjoy them, and this be-
cause of our lack of faith. Owing to our indul-
gence in vanity and folly and lack of love towards
one another. 
	Paul in his Epistle to the Thessalonians refer-
ring to this time, and those people who recieve
not the truth but reject it. said: "That for this
cause God shall send them strong delusions, that


they should believe a lie, that they all might be
damned who believed not the truth."
	Satan was permitted to exercise his power in
the days of Moses. When Moses and Aaron pre-
sented themselves before King Pharaoh to plead
in behalf of the children of Israel, that they may
go and offer sacrifice to their God, to prove the 
power and Omnipotence of that God, Aaron did
as Moses commanded, and threw down his rod
and it became a serpent. Pharaoh called his wise
men and the Magicians and they did the same. 
But the sequel goes to prove that Aaron's ser-
pent swallowed up the serpents of the Magicians.
	And so it will be ere long, when the Lord has
proven His people, and they are sufficiently
humble He will manifest His power through His
servants who hold the Priesthood, in the deliver-
ance of His people, and the confounding of their
enemies. And the miracles to be wrought will
eclipse any performed in former dispensations. 
	For Zion will arise and shine, and the glory of
her God will rest upon her, and all her inhabitants
will be righteous.
	And it will be those stalwart sons and fair
daughters of Zion, who are now improving their
golden opportunities, and striving to keep all the
commandments of God, searching for knowledge
through the proper channel, and whose aspira-
tions are heavenward, that will be chosen to bring 
to pass this heavenly state of things.
	But they cannot attain unto this, only by sacri-
fice. If we expect to be joint-heirs with Christ,
we must be willing to do the will of God in all
things. And Christ has promised that if we will 
take His yoke upon us and learn of Him, His yoke
will be easy and His burden light. 
	If you wish to know in regard to your future
my young brethren and sisters, I would advise
you to get your Patriarchal blessing; and in all
probability you will find that you are of the blood
of Ephraim and the royal seed of Joseph. And 
that should stimulate you to act nobly and worthy
of your honorable progenitors.
	And that you may be enabled to over come
every temptation of the enemy, and attain to the
blessings and reward your parentage and privi-
leges entitle you to, is my earnest desire in the
name of Jesus, Amen.
	Read at the Young People's Conjoint Meeting, 
17, Ward.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
	SEMI-MONTHLY MEETING.
	(The ladies semi-monthly meeting was held in
the 14th, ward Assembly rooms on Saturday,
Nov. 9, 1889, Pres. M. Isabella Horne pre-
siding. In the stand were Mrs. Zina D. H.
Young, Pres. of the Relief Society and Mrs.
Elmina S. Taylor, Pres. of the Young Ladies
Associations and Mrs. E. B. Wells, Editor of
the WOMAN'S EXPONENT.)
	The meeting opened with singing.
	     "When the voice of friendship's heard," etc,
	Prayer was offered by Mrs. M. W. Wilcox,
singing.
	     “Do what is right let the consequence follow,”
	Pres. Horne made some opening remarks
spoke of having been in the Logan Temple
recently, and the influence she enjoyed also
that she attended the Relief Society Conference
of Cache Stake at Logan. “We sisters do
not want to be among the number of those
spoken of by the prophet, when he uttered
the words, “Wo unto the women who are at
ease in Zion,” “we are constantly taught that
we should be united and earnest in living our
religion;” she then referred to the Savior’s
words, when upon the earth, and the
prophecies uttered, and explained their appli-
cation to the day in which we live, said “let
us not be foolish virgins but wise and diligent,”
and gave the meeting into the hands of the
sisters.
[Column 2]
	Mrs. E. B. Wells, spoke upon the condition
of the people politically, and urged the sisters
to use their utmost endeavors to assist the
People’s Party in every possible way; although
they were deprived of the ballot, they had the
privilege of becoming members of the People’s
Party clubs, and of attending the meetings and
getting an understanding of all matters per-
taining to the issues now pending, and by
doing this would be able to exert a powerful
influence in the right direction with fathers,
husbands, brothers and sons, and give expres-
sion to the loyalty and patriotism that burned
as brightly in the hearts of women, as in those
of men and had in all ages  of the world;
women had as much at stake in the present
crisis as men had, women had endured as
much here, and given as much genuine help in
making homes in this barren desert, and should
make the utmost exertion to stimulate with
faith and energy the voters of the People’s
Party. Urged the sisters to read the daily
papers, and referred them to the article from
the pen of Apostle F. M. Lyman in the No-
vember number of the Contributor. Rejoiced
to see the young men training in riding and
marching clubs and thought how grand the
young ladies would look on horseback, as in
times past when the military were on parade.
	Pres. Horne followed speaking eloquently
upon the same subject and added that the
“Liberal” party boasted of the improvements
they would make etc,” expend a million of
dollars, but where would the money come
from, the people of course would be taxed for
all this extravagance, she thought the Lord
required us in this and in every emergency to
help ourselves and when we had done our
utmost He would lend His aid and support.
Referred to the example of Tooele Co. and
also spoke of the military parades in Nauvoo
in the days of Joseph the prophet,and that he
always had ladies out on horseback whenever
the Nauvoo Legion were out exercising.
	Pres. Zina D. H. Young spoke in a similar
strain, she wished we could infuse this spirit
into the hearts of our neighbors and
friends, referred to the trials of Nauvoo when
so many were sick with ague, the sorrows
afterwards and our prosperity here in the
valleys of the mountains, thought we should
live nearer to the Lord, pray every day, and
fast every Sunday—straws will show which
way the mind blows; we should be examples
of purity; the same spirit is on the earth now
that was upon it when the Savior was crucified.
The Lord is for His people, keep close to the
body of the tree, hold fast to the iron rod,
the Saints are the leaven spoken of; as long as
one half are for the kingdom of God He will
be on our side and we need not fear.”  A
verse of the hymn. “The spirit of God like
a fire is burningt’ was sung.
	(Sister Jane James burst forth in praise to
the Lord and spoke in the gift of tongues.
Sister Zina gave the interpretation.)
	Sister Barrows bore her testimony to the
truth of the Latter-day work; and referred to
her husband’s account of the days of Nauvoo.
Thought it was necessary to be very careful;
and that unless we do our duty we shall be
burdened greater and more heavily, rejoiced
that her sons were in the right path and also
her daughters.
	Sister Mary Dyer bore a strong testimony.
	Sister E. Stevenson, “we are commanded to
meet together often, we all need to be mission-
aries and impart to others the good words we
hear from time to time. Our political situation
calls for our attention at the present time, we
must be diligent, the prayers of the Saints
avail much, we built up this place, we crossed
the plains in early days and endured priva-
tions; those who come now have comparatively
easy circumstances and are not prepared to
pass through trials, we must take them by the
[Column 3]
hand, and set an example worthy, by living
our religion. We must watch over our young
girls, dress them modestly and not like butter-
flies; and study economy, put away vanities
of all kinds, Sister Eliza always spoke against
these things and Sister Woodruff spoke of the 
little things that hindered us. Brother Kim-
ball used to say “it was the little foxes that
spoiled the vines.”
	Sister Frances Smith said it was 39 years
since she was baptized into the church; she re-
joiced in the Gospel and in all its principles.
Her sons were on the right side, they would
all vote for the Peoples Party, she had never
felt discouraged in regard to our political
situation, thought we should have faith and
take courage, right would triumph.
	Sister Zina made some further remarks and
referred to the Commissioners Report and ad-
vised the sisters to read it and also the report
of His Excellency Gov. Thomas; these men
know their statements are false. the mothers
should be informed upon all these points.
Repeated some of the sayings of Joseph the
Prophet in regard to the persecutions of the
saints.
	Sisters Diana Reid, Julia M. K. Wenner-
holm, Lois Hook, Jeanette Morris, Helen
Houlton and M. A. E. Watmough, each spoke
feelingly upon the political situation, and the
necessity of keeping the commandments of
God being ever earnest and prayerful and also 
watchful. Meeting adjourned for two weeks,
congregation rose and sung Doxology. Bene-
diction by sister E. S. Taylor.


MILLARD CO. W. S. A.

	A meeting of the Millard Co. W. S. A. was
held at Scipio Oct. 22.  Mrs. M. A. Y. Green-
halgh presiding.  The meeting opened by the
choir singing one of "Freedom's Songs."
Prayer was offered by Mr. W. Hatch.
	The President stated the object of the meet-
ing and this being the first meeting in Scipio
the Constitution was read, and roll of members
called.
	The President gave an account of the
commencement of the movement, and
of the many noble men and women
who had taken part in it, and of the
first convention held at Seneca Falls N. Y.
June 1848, which was quickly followed by
others to which were sent reporters from many
of the principal newspapers, and were attended
by statesmen, and senators from all parts of
the United States.  The meeting was then
addressed by Thos. Memmott, Mrs. E. Yates,
Wm.  Hatch, Jesse B. Martin and Mrs.
Thompson.
	The meeting was well attended and all the
speakers expressed themselves in favor of
Woman's Freedom and her right to the
Suffrage, and pledged themselves to assist to
obtain that right by every legitimate means.
Benediction by Fred K. Wasden.
	Two meetings of the Millard Co. W. S. A.
were held at Kanosh Oct. 31.  Mrs. M. A. Y.
Greenhalgh presiding.
	The first meeting was held at 2 p. m., and
at the close of that meeting the people re-
quested the President to remain and hold a
second meeting at 7 p.m. which was like the
first, numerously attended.  During the two
meetings the choir sang six of the songs of
"Freedom" in a lively and spirited manner,
which added greatly to the enthusiasm of the
meetings.  Prayer was offered at 2 p. m. by
C. Hall.  The president addressed the meeting
giving an account of the origin and progress
of the Woman's Suffrage movement and the
necessity for women to have the right to vote,
and many reasons why they should.  Addresses
were then given by Jesse Hopkinson, B.


Watts, C. Hall, E. F. Christenson, and Wm.
Prows Esq. Benediction by C. F. Christenson.
	The evening meeting was opened by singing,
and prayer was offered by Wm. Prows Esq.
The President gave an account of her travels
in the East, and of the way women were
treated in those lands and their improved con-
dition at the present time, and of the better
laws now in force, for the protection of women,
in Europe.
	The other speakers were C. Bement, J.
Gardener, Q. Abrahams, J. Dameron, J,
Prows.  Mrs. Adelia Kimball in a short ad-
dress encouraged all to join the association
and make themselves conversant with politics
so that when the time came that they had the
right to vote, they would know how to use
the privilege judiciously.  At the close of the
meeting the president was cordially invited to
visit Kanosh again at an early day, and give
them some account of her travels, in the
Orient, and other lands, which she consented
to do, she advised the young people to organise
a literary society, and introduce civil govern-
ment, and home politics among their other
studies, offering them any assistance she was
able to give.  The meeting closed with prayer
by Jesse Hopkinson.
						M. A. Y. G.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
		﻿A MASS MEETING.
   A mass meeting of the women of Utah Co.
assembled for  the purpose  of organizing  a
Woman  Suffrage  Association  on Wednesday
Oct. 23 at  the  meeting  house  in  Provo  at
half  past  10 a.  m.  Mrs.  Mary John called
the attention of the assembly and stated the
object of the meeting. Mrs. E. B.  Wells of
Salt Lake City was elected  Chairman  of the
meeting   and   Mrs.   Susa   Young  Gates
Secretary.
   The meeting opened with the song "AMERICA"
and  prayer was offered by  the chaplain  Mrs.
Marilla M. Daniels
   The Secretary read  the Call  as published
in     the    Utah    Enquirer    which      was
signed by Mrs.  Mary  John  and  Mrs Marilla
M.  Daniels.   The Chairman inquired  what
was the pleasure of the meeting; and  was re-
sponded to  that nominations for officers were
in order: most of the nominations were made
from the body of the house and were put  in
their regular order by the Chairman and voted
upon.
   The officers  are  as follows President Mrs.
Mary Jane Tanner, 1st Vice President Mrs.
Electa Bullock, 2nd Vice President Deborah
Billings 3rd  Vice  President Mrs. Joanna Pat-
ten, Secretary Mrs. Susa Young  Gates,  Cor.
Sec. Mrs.  Adelaide G. Snow,  Treasurer Mrs.
Jane  P.  Jones.   Chairman  Executive  com-
mittee,  Mrs Caroline B. Pratt members Ex.
Com.  Mrs. Isabelle Thurman, Mrs. Alice M.
Wilkin, Mrs. Rebecca H. Doolan, Mrs. Teenie
Smoot Taylor,  Mrs.  Lizzie L. Gillespie,  Mrs.
Sarah  E.  Cluff,  Miss  Lizzie  Loveless,  Miss
Delia   Maeser.   Vice Presidents for the larger
towns were appointed  as follows,  Mrs.  Sarah
Ann Boyer,  Springville,  Mrs.  Agnes  Lewis,
Spanish Fork, Mrs. Millie Stark, Payson, Mrs.
Fannie Stewart, Pleasant Grove,  Mrs. Minnie
P. Grant, American Fork.
    The Secretary read the  Constitution  of  the
National  W. S. A. and a  vote was called  and
the  articles adopted.
    The   Secretary  read   the  By   Laws  and
Regulations of  the U. W. S. A. as amended
which were unanimously adopted.
    Mrs. Tanner  the newly elected  President
read a very able and interesting address which
we  give in full.
   Mrs. Chairman, Ladies and Gentlemen:  It
is with much diffidence  that I stand  before
you on this occasion.  It  is new work for me

[Column 2]
to  speak in a political capacity, and, as  none
of us have made politics a study, I  think  I
shall be readily excused  if I show myself in-
capable of entertaining you with  a  learned
exposition on matters pertaining  to suffrage.
The object of our meeting  is to organize an
association and to  agitate  the question  of
woman  suffrage.   While  we  may  not  at
present gain any material advantage from this
movement,  we desire  to give the  weight of
our labors toward strengthening the hands of
those, who have so  long and valiantly fought
the good fight in behalf of the women of this
nation.   That many improvements have been
made  in  the general condition  of  women
during the  latter part of the present century,
no reading  or  thinking person can reasonably
deny.   That much yet remains to be done and
that much can certainly be done by her own
efforts  for her enfranchisement is evident to
all.   A band  of  noble  women  have  been
working for years  to raise  her to a more ex-
alted standard.  To  cultivate  her ideas  and
give her aspirations, a securer basis to work
from.   How much sorrow and wretchedness
might be averted if woman could understand
her own  true value in the commonwealth of
the nation.   When she asserts her rights and
man recognizes them she will cease to become
his plaything: a  shuttlecock for  his amuse-
ment,  fit only to pander to his vanity or his
vices.   That she was created for a companion
and help-meet to man, no  one will attempt to
deny.   That her weakness makes her depend-
ent  on  him to a certain degree  is evident.
That man's strength constitutes  his weakness
and he is  to a certain  degree  dependent on
her is  quite as evident.  When we admit that
neither is capable of independent action,  that
wealth,  happiness   and  station   in    society
connects them indissolubly,  then should we not
admit that politically and socially they should
be  equal.   If one is  stronger than  another,
then let the stronger carry the heavier burden.
It  is  so in the economy  of nature.   All men
are  not  equal in strength, education or intel-
ligence,  but  we would not infer  that  their
rights  or  liberty of action, were not equal or
that their political rights should  be curtailed.
That  women might  not use the ballot intelli-
gently we will not deny.   Neither does man in
all cases.   That  women  are  not  posted  on
political matters is a question  of no moment.
All  men  are not sufficiently acquainted with
matters of vital interest to the country.  They
are sometimes easily  enlightened by the ju-
dicious use of money or whisky.  For sake of
argument we might say that perhaps women
might be as easily instructed; but for the sake
of   woman  we  would  scorn   the  assertion.
   While reflecting on  these things my mind
reverts to Utah in her infancy.   It is less than
half a century since she was born as an  inte-
gral part of the Union.   My feet were among
the first  to tread the barren land of her deso-
lation.   Not a field under cultivation;  uot a
fence nor a cabin met  the eyes, all was barren
and  desolate;  solitude  and silence reigned
supreme.   A few small streams of water made
their  passage  through  the mountain  gorges,
and on those silvery streamlets,  sparkling  in
the sunlight, hung  the destiny of a people iso-
lated from  home and friends, from  laws and
humanity.  These fainting and weary pilgrims
suffered  from  the rigors of the  climate and
the barrenness  of  the  desert.    Their  crops
were devoured by  the insects from the moun-
tains and  their  lives  endangered  from  the
squalid barbarians who eked out a  scanty ex
istence by competing with the starving wolves
for the little game that survived in  this  for-
bidding  district.  Such  was  Utah in her in-
fancy.   Honest toil and  preservation through
every trial and difficulty has raised her to the
position she now acquires as one of the most
thriving territories  in  the  Union.   And  is

[Column 3]
this  the  work of man  alone?  Not by  any
means.   Woman's courage, skill  and  labor
have been here; woman's consolation and en-
couragement in the hours of sorrow and disap-
pointment; woman's heroism and devotion in
time of danger and death; her tenderness and
love; her happiness and  smiles when success
crowned her labors.   Why  then  should  she
be  held  a  vassal  to his power; a slave to his
whims and caprices?  God never made her so.
He gave her  to man for a comfort and a help-
meet.  Should  she  then not join with him in
making and sustaining the laws of the country;
of his country;  of her country.   Are not their
responsibilities equal, their interests identical?
Is not her head as clear, her heart  as true and
her  judgment as sound as his?  But,  says one,
women should not be  dragged into  politics;
there is  too much that is coarse and degrading
in the association she is liable  to come in con-
tact  with.    Wherever womam  goes  her  in-
fluence  refines and   purifies.  In  the  back-
woods, in the  mining camp,  wherever  she
comes she brightens with her presence, and the
veriest ruffian will  stay  the oath upon his lips
rather  than offend.   Might  she  not then be
able  to still the turbulence of political  dis-
cussion  and purify  the atmosphere  of  the
ballot  box  and the jury room?  In  all  the
years that  the women of Utah held the fran-
chise  were they  ever accused  of unseemly
conduct, or of voting inconsistently with their
own interests,  or what they believed to be the
best interest   of the country?  Did   not   the
Gentile  woman vote for her Gentile friends,
and  the  Mormon woman  for her Mormon
friends without fear or favors? and was ever
the  ballot  corrupted or  the laws vititated
because women took part in it?   It  is  not
thought degrading for woman  to labor to sus-
tain herself and her family.   Her services may
be the most menial, her association the most
questionable and no fault is found on the score
of her womanhood.   Her taxes are as accept-
able  and  her conduct as amenable  to  the
laws  as  if she had  helped  to make them.
Woman in  politics should  be a  power unto
herself.  She should cultivate  and  enlarge
her  intelligence that she  may  influence in
wisdom those by whom she is surrounded.  If
she cannot  vote she  can  teach her  children
the  principles of republican government; and
rouse in her sons and brothers an ambition to
guard  the best interests of the  commonwealth,
by choosing men  of honest  principles  and
sound judgment as guardians of  the laws and
liberties  of the  people.  Let  us,  then, fulfill
our destiny, whatever it may be, and bear off
our part honorably  as  wives, as mothers and
as  daughters, and sustain every  good and wise
law that  is made for  this, the grandest and
best government that exists in the present age
of  the  world.   And  all  honor  to  the noble
women who are striving, in the  face  of oppo-
sition and discouragement, to  plant  on  this
honored  soil  the feet of freeborn  women as
citizens of  this great republic.
   Hon.  W.  H.  King recounted  his first ex-
perience in politics and the pride with  which
he cast his  first ballot.   The same experience
characterizes  woman in  her  duties to  her
country.   Mr,  King very beautifully depicted
the  progress women  had made during the last
decade,  showing  good  reasons  why women
should  be  permitted  to exercise  political
rights  equal with men.   God made women
equal with men and endowed her with  qualifi-
cations indespensible to  the  welfare  of our
government.   Mr.  King's speech was  a very
eloquent  plea  for  the enfranchisement of
women.
   Mrs.  Wells  said  she well remembered  the
first ballot she cast and was quite sure she  was
fully as proud of the right as a boy of  twenty-
one could be, Mr.  King  said "the  women of
Utah  have  voted  as intelligently  as  many


men."  I believe the women of Utah voted as
intelligently as men.
	Mrs. Wells spoke of the advancement
women had made since their first organization
and alluded to the special work accomplished
before Legislatures and Committees in modify-
ing the laws relating to property rights of
women and children, giving some instances of
the cruelties and hardships under the laws as
they formerly existed, &c.
	Hon. A. O. Smoot said his sentiments were on
record in the legislature that passed the
Suffrage Act.  He advocated the principle be-
fore the Governer at that time and believed his
sentiments had some effect.  He believed it
only a question of time when the whole nation
would yield to Woman the right of Suffrage.
	The convention then adjournsd until 2 p. m.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


ANNUAL WASHINGTON CON-
VENTION.

	The Twenty-second Annual Washington, D.
C., Woman Suffrage Convention will be held
in the Church of our Father, corner of L.
and 13th streets, on Tuesday, Wednesday,
Thursday and Friday, February 18th, 19th,
20th and 21st, 1890.  And at the Rigg's
House on the afternoon of Monday.  February
17th, will be an executive session of the
officers and delegates of the several states and
territorial suffrage societies, at which it is hoped
every one of the forty-two states and five
territories will be represented.  Persons wish-
ing copies of the National-American Constitu-
tion should address the Secretary of the
Committee of Arrangements, Rachel Foster
Avery, 748, North 19th, street Philadelphia,
Pennyslvania.


NOTES AND NEWS.

	Mrs. “Stonewall” Jackson is writing a
biography of her husband.
	A new club to be known as the Arts and
Letters club, is being formed in London.
	There are nearly 10,000 women nail-makers
in England, and 347 who are blacksmiths.
	Dr. Alice Stockham recently spent five days
at St. Petersburg, after which she visited
Count Tolstoi at his country estate.
	Lady Forester sends each week to the
factory girls of London upwards of 2,000
bunches of flowers, gathered by the servants on
her estates.
	Mrs. Ada C. Bittenbender, the well known
lawyer of Nebraska, will represent the de-
partment of legislation and petitions at the
National Convention.
	Harriet Beecher Stowe is an honorary mem-
ber of the Author’s Club of New York, and
the only woman writer connected with that
organization.
	No woman has all the rights she needs unti
the thought she cherishes and the conviction
that burns in her heart on any great public
question can be put into suffrage language.—
Rev. E. A. Horton.
	The University of Pennsylvania refuses to
be bulldozed by its ungallant students, and
will admit young women into its classes.  It
will be interesting now to see if the young
men carry out their threat and quit the Uni-
versity.  We guess they won’t.—Boston
Herald.
	Miss Ida M. Street is the name of the young
woman who has won the fellowship offered by
the Collegiate Alumnae for advanced study in
foreign universities by graduates of colleges in


the association likely to do original work in
science or literature.  "George Eliot as a Rep-
resentative of Her times" was the title of the 
thesis which won Miss Street the prize. 
	A work of more than ordinary interest will
be made of the material which Maud Howe
Elliot and her sister Florence Howe Hall, are
now shaping for "The Life of Laura Bridg-
man," famous deaf and blind mute.  The work
will contain an account of Miss Bridgman's
 education, by Dr. Samuel G. Howe, her in-
tellectual and spiritual development, and ex-
tracts from a series of journals and diaries
which she kept.  A number of unpublished
letters from Charles Dickens, Charles Sumner,
Longfellow, and others will be a feature.—Ex.

	Dr. Alice B. Stockham, who is now in
Europe, was the guest of the Baroness Gripen-
berg, in Finland recently, and was given a re-
ception by the Women's Club of Helsingfors.
She was the first American woman to be thus
honored.  Dr. Stockham had a very warm re-
ception.  When she left Helsingfors, the ladies
of the Women's Club came to see her off at
the railroad station, each armed with a bouquet,
which they pinned to Dr. Stockham's dress, till
she looked like a flower garden.  Dr. Stock-
ham is now in Paris, and is expected home
about Christmas.—Ex.


OBITUARY.

	Died in the 14th ward, Salt Lake City, of old age, Oc-
tober 26, 1889, Sister Ann Clewley.  Sister Ann was a faith-
ful and devoted Latter-day Saint and diligent in the duties
pertaining thereto.  The deceased was in her 88th year at
the time of her death, and had been a member of the
 Church for forty years.  She was a woman of great energy
of character perhaps stimulated, by having been compelled
through circumstances to make her own way in the world
in early life.  She was born in Sucksforth,Lincolnshire
England on the 24, of April 1802.  Her parents died when
she was a very small child and her grandmother took care
of her until she was twelve years of age, when she too was
taken from her by death, and the little Ann was thrown
 upon her own resources.  In 1823:  she went up to London
and found employment in a gentleman’s family where she
remained until 1834 when she was married to William W.
Clewley and moved to Leamington, Warwickshire.
	Afterwards herself and husband and also a niece of the
husband heard the Gospel preached and embraced it being
baptized by Elder Alfred Cordon in 1849; they started for
America the same year coming by the way of New Orleans,
arriving in St. Louis the following January.  They re-
mained there for three months and then went to Council
Bluffs and were counseled to settle there.
	Brother Clewley had been an invalid for several years,
and while he was at the Bluffs he was taken down with
inflammatory rheumatism, and during his illness Sister
Clewley was obliged to dispose of her clothing and other
things to procure necessaries.  These were the days
when the Saints were passing through the scenes of ad-
versity and many were compelled through force of circum-
stances to do the same as this good woman.  She nursed
her husband faithfully for which labor she was peculiarly
adapted, and she also labored hard to obtain means to
bring them to Utah.	
	They left Council Bluffs in 1852, Brother Clewley had
to be lifted into the wagon when they started on the
journey.  He died on the 12, of July, just as they arrived
at the Platte River, after ten months of severe suffering.
	Sister Clewley arrived in Salt Lake City the 2nd, of Oc-
tober 1852.
	When the writer became acquninted with the sister now
deceased she was the wife of Elder Phineas Richards, and
she was for many years an active and faithful teacher in the
Relief Society of the 14th ward, and prompt in all her
Society duties and also an excellent nurse among the sick
which calling she followed for years;  There are many who
will remember her speaking in the sisters meetings in the 14,
ward and also in little companies and parties to which she
was often invited especially of later years.  Her great age
and experience gave her wisdom in spiritual matters which
she never tired of imparting, or of bearing testimony to
the truth of the Gospel.  But our dear sister has gone to
her rest in peace and her reward is sure.  "Blessed are


the dead which die in the Lord from henceforth;  Yea,
saith the Spirit, that they may rest from their labors; and
their works do follow them."
										Com.


VALUABLE SOUVENIRS from Mormon
—Hill Genuine specimens of
Stone or Wood, 25c. Fine Photo. of Hill and spot
where the Golden Bible was found, 50c. Auto-
graph of Major Gilbert, who printed the first
Mormon Bible, 25c. Elegant Photograph of
Major Gilbert with Autograph Letter, 50c. ALL
of the above, $1. Guaranteed genuine. Send at
once. AGENTS WANTED.
	MORMON HILL EXCAVATION CO.,
				Main Office, Palmyra, N.Y.

UNION
PACIFIC
THE
OVERLAND
ROUTE

TICKETS
ON SALE
TO ALL
PRINCIPAL POINTS
EAST, WEST,
NORTH and SOUTH
—A.T—
UNION TICKET OFFICE,
Main Street, Salt Lake City.
C. E. INGALLS, J. V. PARKER,
City Pass. Agt.	Div. Pass. Agt.	

R.K. THOMAS
EAGLE EMPORIUM
SALT LAKE CITY.
The Leading Retail 
Cash House.
R.K. THOMAS

Special to the Ladies.
AT TEASDEL’S
Will be found the latest styles and productions
in
LACES, RUCHES, EMBRODERIES,
FANS, GLOVES, PARASOLS,
RIBBONS, COLLARS, TIES
And an elegant assortment of
DRY GOODS.
	Special department for Ladies’ Misses’ and In-
fant’s Shoes.
			112, 114, 116, 118 East Temple Street

DAVID JAMES & CO.
TINNERS GAS,WATER & STEAM FITTERS
	Agent for RUMSEY’S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from
the country promptly responded to.
	Address DAVID JAMES, Box 306, SALT LAKE CITY.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.
