VOL. 18.			SALT LAKE CITY,  UTAH,  JULY 1, 1889.			No. 3.


CONTENTS.
	Hephzibah—A Story. Visit to Primaries.—H.
Madson. True Value---M. E. Kimball, Fault
Finding---M. E. T. Faith---Susie Stephenson
Notes and News.
	EDITORIAL: Lucy W. W. Hayes. The Old
Folks at Ogden. A Remembrance.—L. W. Kim-
ball. A Tribute to Grandma Smith.—J .P. M.
Farnsworth. Morgan County W. S.. A.—Miss
Delia Smith.	
	Woman Suffrage, Hon. C. W. Penrose—at the
W. S. A. of Ogden. R. S. Reports: San Juan
and Snowflake.
	POETRY: Comfort for the Mother.—Augusta
Joyce Crocheron. Birthday Offering.—L. M. Hew
lings. Lines Dedicared to The Old Folks.—A. C.
In Memoriam.


COMFORT FOR THE MOTHER.

The following was written to Mrs. A.R. Shaw of Ogden,
on the death of her infant son.

	A flood of light the midnight filled 
 		And every sound to silence stilled,
	And right before the mother stood
		A stranger, mighty, pure and good.
	He looked into her anxious eyes
		Watching the varying feelings rise,
	And knew her soul’s calm, steadfast truth
		And all her blameless life from youth;
	Then answering her eyes of prayer
		He opened one white hand, and there
	Lay three rich jewels, Oh, more bright
		Than e'er had met her mortal sight.
	And ere she yet could understand
		He laid them in her trembling hand.
	“Study their beauty well" spake he,	
		“They are thine for all eternity."
	Lo! by their light new life began,
		New thoughts through all her being ran,
	While ecstacy thrilled through her frame
		The stranger gently spoke her name.
	And as she raised to him her eyes
		Took from her hands the precious prize;
	“The Father sent these but to show—
		What 'waits you while through life you go,
	Safe in the keeping of His love
		They shall be yours again, above.”
	Nor artist’s power nor poet’s spell
		The	words he taught could keep or tell,
	They went beyond the things of earth
		To where the mysteries have birth;
	Teaching why wrong and sin should grow
		They took from sorrow half its woe,
	Why the soul’s idols turn to clay
		And God’s own gifts are drawn away, 
	And how, though thorns bestrewed her path
		Her soul its guardian angel hath.

	Then, when the holy guest was gone
		A lesser light came, it was dawn.
	Like one alone yet fearing not—
		Silence—with sacred meaning fraught,
	God’s blessing seemed so near her there
		Life’s dullest burdens seemed no care,
	For that sweet sense filled all her soul
		And lightened, strengthened blessed the whole.
	Was this life zealot’s faith, ideal?
		No, by His blessing this was real,
	Stripped of the curse by childlike faith
		Earth wounds pain less, no trials scathe;
	And while the mortal still endures,
		Through deeper tests still strength assures; 
	Just as the heart of His own Son
		Bore suff'ring ’till his time was done,
[column 2]
	Not for wrong doing but to prove
		The soul God guards, naught else can move.

	The days went on and oft she thought
		Of the bright gems the stranger brought,
	Smiling to know their light should shine
		Her own ’mid splendors all divine.
	And strove that outward grace to win
		Worthy the grace of soul within;
	Yet only half their meaning knew—
		I hat splendors cast their shadows too.

	Heaven remembered her and gave
		The gift her riven heart had craved,
	A babe, whose wondrous eyes revealed
		Pure mysteries from earth concealed,
	Their silent beauty almost speech,
		Diviner truths and love to teach.
	They led her soul 'mid earthly scenes
		Forgettiug earth, where—downward leans
	The Unseen—so close to the veil
		It almost touches spirits frail,
	Worn faint with trial ’til the breath
		Through joy or woe—is kissed by death—
	And there her soul heard other things
		Just as the blind feel passing wings!
	So, day by day they lived until
		Life seemed so fitted to God’s will
	And prayer the sceptre; 'neath its sway 
		Real, grateful bliss filled each fair day.

	Day hath its end, its night; souls, too,
		Have lost their sun of life from view;
	No hands that lift, no voice that calls
		But vainly on the darkness falls
	Until His hour. However lost
		In sorrow’s wild, His love hath crossed
	The trackless waste, He knoweth where
		The mourner kneeleth in despair.
	O, mourning mother! Not alone
		Thy riven heart in sorrow's moan.
	Not bitter only, is thy lot.
		Thou hast not been by heaven forgot;
	No stain of earth had marred the name
		Of that fair boy thy soul did claim, 
	No fault had dimmed those beauteous eyes,
		Too bright were they for these dull skies;
	Thy boys—lo—God hath taken them,
		Thy jewels, thy soul’s diadem.

	Remember her, that mother pure
		Who didst the agony endure
	On Calvary's hill; thou know’st in part
		The anguish of her sacred heart.
	Thrice blessed is that home wherein
		The shad’wy wing of death hath been;
	Thou hast had joy, possession, love,
		Now, each of these, lifted above
	Earth’s marring or its robbing, bear
		Their witness to thy portion there
	Where blessings past and present all
		Upward ascending ever call
	The tireless soul and wearied feet
		With them before His throne to meet.

	The sweetest voices earth hath known
		Were those attuned to sorrow’s moan,
	And nearer sanctified are they,
		Where grief hath washed in tears away
	The idle thoughts of cloudless hours.
		Forgetting how, for sins of ours
	The only Sinless, bowed his head,
		And would, with Mary wept her dead.

	Not wind and wave in furious storm
		Snatched from thine arms his precious form,
	Not stealthy foe nor cruel flame
		Thy lovely babe had power to claim,
	Not blighted by long suffering
		Ere the loosed soul its flight could wing—
[column 3]
	Rejoice, O, mother! In thine arms
		Death could not thrill him with alarms;
	His last sweet words were unto thee.
		Thine the last face his eyes could see,
	Safe in our mountain home he sleeps;
		While the wide world still onward keeps 
	It’s headlong course of pride and wrong
		Warring ’gainst Truth with hatred strong—
	O! better in that little grave,
		With mission ended, spirit saved. 
				AUGUSTA JOYCE CROCHERON.
South Bountiful, June 13th, 1889.


HEPHZIBAH.
				II
	"Truth is stranger than fiction.”
	He grew quite enthusiastic on the subject,
and bye-and-bye said to his son, “it may be she
will marry her cousin Elisha and have the
homestead, and we shall see the village pros-
per again, for Elisha will have money.” This
was too much for the father, who, though
poor, compared to his eldest brother, was
proud, and replied bitterly, “No! he would
scorn a village girl, and my brother’s son
shall not look down upon my child.”  “Ah,
well, well, how foolish to differ about her mar-
riage on the day of her birth, strange indeed;
I cannot understand why we should thus drift
off into the future of one scarce yet initiated
into life; it may be all owing to her name.”
“It may be,” said Grandpa quietly “but it is
many a long day since I have been so aroused
as to dwell upon the future of any one, not
even my own sons, and to be thus exercised is
“passing strange.” And so the two—father
and son talked on; a channel of communica-
tion opened between them, that had been
closed for years. From that very day the old
Major seemed to have taken a new lease of 
life. The advent of the little stranger had
indeed created a change, and he watched her
from day to day, fancying he could see some
resemblance to that other Hephzibah for whom
she was Christened. As soon as she was old
enough to run about he insisted that she
should remain with him at the old homestead.
Much as the parents esteemed him, they could
not consent to such an arrangement, but
allowed little Hephzibah to visit at the old
home regularly with one of her elder sisters.
His love for the little one was so strong he
could not endure to be separated from her, but
kept her near him in the musty, old, deserted
house, until she was about as antique in her
manners as the aged veteran himself. When
other little girls were sewing “over and over”
or hemming by a thread, she would sit and
tell them long stories, and amuse them by the
hour together, and when they asked her where
she learned so many pretty tales, she would
answer, “In the old manor house,” talking to
herself. Poetry unwritten was in  her heart
and soul, and the realities of life were a perfect
blank to her ideal nature. Her practical
New England mother wondered what could
be done to bring the child down from the
airy heights, where she soared unconsciously,
to the level of the earth, and make her under-
stand the need of actual labor, in the work-a-
day world. Her hair, which was a mass of
bright brown waves, was never smooth, and
her white dimity aprons, made so neat and
nice, were soon crumpled and soiled; “generally


[Column 1]
untidy" was her mother's idea of the child's
appearance. At school, however, she progressed
rapidly, and was a favorite with her playmates;
but at night, she kept the household wide-a-
wake with her memorizing ballads and impro-
vising meaningless rhymes. Thus time passed
on; the semi-annual visits of the eldest son
from Boston continued as regular as ever, and
it came to his ears that little Hephzibah was
to be the heiress of the treasures and jewels of
his dead mother; it nettled him sorely, for he
had plead in vain to obtain them for his wife.
His father would never consent that any one
should ever possess them save those of his own
blood, and so he had thought his daughter
would some day inherit them, "Why not?"
he said to himself, "it is the proper thing and
in the direct line." He could not bear the
thought that the youngest son's daughter should
ever wear his mother's jewels. He was too
haughty to do more than barely recognize his
brother, and as for the wife and children, he
never deigned to notice them. One summer
when he came as usual he brought with him
his son Elisha, who, not knowing his aristocra-
tic father’s aversion to the villagers, romped
and played with his country cousins. The
grand-father was delighted, and inadvertently
said to his son one day when he happened to
see him with little Hephzibah, "That boy had
better marry his cousin Hephzibah and take 
possession here when he's of age." "My son
marry that country cousin of his? Never! I
would disown him. Let her marry one of her
own class." This quite enraged the old Major
who knew full well that her father was much
more honorable and generous than his city
brother; and not only so, but that the younger
son's wife was of a much better family than
the other daughter-in-law, and his hot temper
rose, and he replied, "She is too good for your
son, for now I remember who his mother was."
Angry words followed between the two, and
they were never afterwards reconciled to each
other. Little Elisha did not comprehend why
his father was not willing he should play with
Hephzibah, and persisted in being in her com-
pany, and begged his father to leave him in
the country, because he should be unhappy if
he must go back to Boston without his favorite
cousin. His girl cousin, however, was not
nearly so fond of him, in fact. she loved to
play by herself, and ransack old closets and
garrets, or wherever there were old things, for
which she seemed to have an unbounded  pas-
sion. She would sit for hours together among
the rubbish and dress her dolls and talk to
them as if they were conscious of all she said. 
She dwelt as much in a world of her own, as
did her aged grandfather, and they suited
each other admirably. Out of doors as well
as in, she enjoyed every nook and corner. The
orchard resounded with her sweet voice in
merry song and laughter, and there was not a 
tree she had not climbed. Her mother would
sometimes say, speaking of the fanciful child,
"Hephzibah has no more idea of eating and
drinking regularly, than the fairies and wood-
nymphs of which she is always talking and
dreaming." "Her ways are shiftless" she
would invariably add, "and that is what the
world will never overlook.” But the matter
rested there, and the child grew more unlike
other girls every day. She could not appre-
ciate her mother's fears and apprehensions
about the future, and while she was left to her
fine-spun fancies, and grandpa's curious stories,
with the old house and grounds to ramble
through at will, she cared not; an unsophisti-
cated child of nature, with a mind so rich in
imagery that all the earth wore radiant robes
of glory for her, and the star-bespangled
heavens, were mysteries she never cared to
have explained, but only to gaze on and wor-
ship from a distance. Little she dreamed that
in a few short years, life would reveal itself in

[Column 2]
a thousand glowing transports, and alas! in all
its cold and hard realities as well; but so it
proved.
	Ere long an event transpired that changed
all the current of Hephzibah's life. Her
father died suddenly, without a settlement of
any sort for his large family. The widowed
mother with three younger children, and not
one old enough to render much assistance in
the way of help or support, was more than
ever engrossed with the cares of life. Alas!
how heavy fall such burdens on women.
	The widow left so utterly dependent, with
ten children looking to her maintenance, took
up her burden heroically and never faltered.
Some said "The children's rich uncle will pro-
vide for them," But Mrs. H.—always an-
swered "No! we do not want his money; but if
I were a man with power to act, I would see
they had their own, of which he has robbed
them.” And this was true, for the eldest
brother taking advantage of the old Major's
idiosyncracies, had managed to obtain possession
of all his ready means, and used it in his own
business and then represented that he sup-
ported his father, and consequently all there
was worth claiming belonged to him alone.
One of the sons had died while quite young;
another gone, they knew not whither, for he
never wrote nor sent one word to comfort his
aged father; and the third lived a gay bachelor
life in the city of Boston. Neither of these
cared for the paternal estate, nor the heir-
looms of the family, therefore the eldest son
had full sway after his youngest brother's
death. He had always been annoyed about
his large family, and living so near the old
home, he feared his influence, but now he
breathed freely again, for he was gone where
he could no more trouble him about worldly
affairs. Inwardly he congratulated himself
that the "coast was clear," although he made
some pretensions to a desire to help the widow
and lighten her load of care.
	The widow really thought that in considera-
tion of the circumstances, the uncle would
take Hephzibah to Boston and educate her,
but no such offer was made, nor any hint of
such a thing given. The very next morning
after his brother's funeral, the rich merchant
bade them all good-bye ceremoniously, and
without a word of consolation, left for his own
luxurious home, knowing too that they were
entitled to a support at least, from the estate
he had charge of.
		      [to be continued.]

[Column 3]
meetings with only those she brought with
her. By the way, Indianola being so isolated,
the people greatly appreciate the too-seldom
visits of missionaries.
	Sister Felt's kind encouragement, seemed to
sink into the hearts of those who listened to
her. They appreciated her visit very much.
Little Vera Felt, who accompanied her, added
to the enjoyment of each meeting, with a
sweet recitation.
	We were received with the greatest kind-
ness and cordiality wherever we went. We
were greatly prospered and blessed on our
visit, and feel that the knowledge of God and
His ways, is increasing with our children.
His gifts and blessings are bestowed upon
them in rich abundance. There is a strong
attachment between the officers and members
of the Primary Associations.
	(We witnessed one touching, little episode on
our visit to Spring City. Their President,
Emma Robinson, had been bedfast for two or
three weeks. In the evening, the Primary
children, surrounded the bedroom window
and sang some of their beautiful songs. Sister
Robinson was moved to tears, and yet she
could not refrain from joining in with the
children in their praises to God, as she has
done so for fully nine years or more. After
the singing, many of the children crowded
around her bed, to press her hand and ask
God's blessings upon her.)
	Sister Felt expressed herself as being satis-
fied with the Primaries of Sanpete Stake, and
her visit to them. 
	Our manly little driver, Freddie Swalberg,
of Gunnison, did all that he could to speed us
on our journey. He took excellent care of our
team, and never missed a meeting. 
	Earnestly praying that our heavenly Father
will bless the Primaries in Zion, and all who
spend time, means, and labor for the advance-
ment of our precious children.
			We remain,
		HELENA MADSEN, Stake President,
		SARAH METCALF, Secretary,
	GUNNISON, June 11th, 1889.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


VISIT TO PRIMARIES.

	On the 6th of May, Sister Helena Madsen,
President of the Primaries of Sanpete, accom-
panied by Sister Louie B. Felt, President of
the Central Board of the Primary Associa-
tions, Counselor Lucy Berglund, and Stake
Secretary Sarah Metcalf, started to visit the
Primaries of this Stake, holding the first meet-
ing in Gunnison. There are 18 Primaries in
the Stake, which have been holding meetings
continuously, except where sickness hindered.
The meetings were exceedingly well attended;
notably in Fountain Green.
	The children in their exercises and be-
havior, manifested excellent progress; their
officers, in general, being energetic and solici-
tous for the welfare and advancement of their
precious charges.
	Sister Hulda C. Hjorth, President of the
Indianola Primary, furnishes a remarkable in-
stance of perseverance in the Primary cause.
She lives four miles from the meeting house;
in fact she lives in Utah County, about a mile
over the boundary.
	She takes a team and wagon and gathers up
the children on the way, and often has held


NOTES AND NEWS.
	Alice Stone Blackwell, edits The Woman's
Column, No. 3, Park Street, Boston, Mass.  It
is a weekly and but twenty-five cents a year,

	Every woman ordained to preach the gos-
pel, by any church or ecclesiastical organiza-
tion, is a legally suitable person to perform the
marriage ceremony.

	May 20th, the House of the Connecticut
Legislature passed the bill giving women the
right to vote on the question of the sale of in-
toxicating liquors.

	A proclamation was issued by Governor
Warren, of Wyoming Territory, for an elec-
tion of delegates to a Constitutional Conven-
tion to meet September 8.
	
	Mme. Carnot, as the first lady of France, is
as popular as she is beautiful; but both she
and her husband, Count Carnot, the President
of France, never use their titles.  She says,
“no title can be higher than that of President
of the French Republic, because that name
cannot be separated from the history of
France.
	Among all the competitors for the first prize
in the schools of San Francisco, it was won by
a girl, Miss May Ayers. The prize was a
ticket to the Paris exhibition and return. She
has sailed with her mother for Europe,
from New York, visiting Chicago en route.
This is quite a victory for the girls, and proves
the oft repeated assertion, that the brains of
girls are not inferior to the brains of boys.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


BIRTHDAY OFF'RING.

Wand'ring fancy backward turning,
	Lifts the curtain from the years;
Bridges o’er the long line travel’d,
	Mid its changing hopes and fears.
'Til we stand upon life’s threshold,
	Enter’d with unconscious tears.

There receiving royal welcome,
	Feted with the choicest fare;
Clothed in robes of finest texture,
	Wrought with skill artistic, rare.
Cherished, blessed, caressed and sheltered
	Ministered unto with care.

Thence thro' mornings bud and blooming,
	Green with gold and blue with white,
Blending into rainbow colors,
	Scenes of gladness and delight.
Until each revolving season
	Seemed a fairy land of light.	

Now beyond life's noon advancing
	Leaving childhood's rosy dawn,
And its glorious ideal,
	Gushing springs of magic charm.
Passed into the living real,
	Wearing off the bloom of morn.

With uplifted eyes we question,
	Has the real more of bliss,
Has the fount of knowledge given,
	Measure full for sweetness missed,
Off'ring stones for bread delicious,
	Hard, cold, facts for rainbow mist?

Still from sixty-five three hundred,
	One bright day is set apart;
One fair gem from each is numbered,
	And with special favor marked;
Held in grateful mem'ry ever,
	Treasured safe within the heart.

Like a peaceful benediction,
	Comes a day in "Merrie June,"
Lifts the soul to fields elysian
	All the universe in tune,	
All the discord of life's friction,
	Banished with its doubt and gloom.

Thus we blend in song and story,
	These anniversary days; 
Give to each an added glory, 
	Fresh with laurel green with bays,
That shall breathe of friendship holy
	In a psalm of perfect praise,

Fragrant with sweet incense ever,	
	As from Eden wafted down,
One by one these leaves we gather,
	Wreathe them into fairy crown,
Treasure trove, that ne’er shall wither,
	While the wheels of time move round.
							L.M. HEWLINGS.
Atchison Kan.


TRUE VALUE.

	What is truly valuable, or in other words,
what is of the most value to us? Some ap-
preciate those friends who have the most
money, because in the hour of need they
would benefit them, which is sometimes the
case, but not always. Did you ever see a
person who could not use all the money he
had, and more if he had it? Accordingly
people are not always charitable; for business
is business and must be attended to, at the
proper time; and the old adage is “Charity
begins at home.” We should learn from
this that it is well to become acquainted with
the business affairs of life while life lasts.
But knowing as we do, that life is short at
the best, we often cast a longing eye on the
other side, and ask ourselves, “How will we
find matters there?” and “What pursuit is
best calculated to prepare us for our exit to
the next state of existence?”
	We are told by our forefathers, both in the


Bible and Book of Mormon, that sound
principle, a pure life, and honorable dealings
with our fellows, is the right course to take
while we are here; as this course of life will
bring to us happiness both here and hereafter.
We are told that God made man in his own
image, and he possesses of His attributes.
	We can see readily that this is the reason
that persons who are upright, honorable and
true, are looked upon as being God-
like, and are deserving of our reverence and
respect. We have confidence in their word,
believing they will do as they wish to be
done by under like circumstances.
	This class of people I feel to call the
nobility of the earth. They may live in a
log house with a dirt roof, as I have found
them under pressing circumstances, yet they
were the true nobility of the earth, because
the principles they cherished, and the sacri-
fices they would make to aid and help the
oppressed, drew forth my love and admiration
for them; knowing that God our Father
claimed them as His own; for surely these
were God like principles.
	Is not this true riches, and of greater value
than all the precious metals combined? Yet,
if a person may possess both it is well, provid-
ing he has that spirit which giveth wisdom,
and enables him to be a wise steward.
	Is not this spirit then of the greatest value,
for without it, he is liable to misuse and
abuse these blessings, so that they even prove
a curse instead of a blessing, by yielding to
temptation, and then to folly, and finally to
crime.
	I think every thoughtful and reflecting
mind can see this clearly, and will eventually
know how to choose, and how to conduct
themselves, especially if we ask aid of this
good spirit, for we surely have help in our
upward course to heaven, and again in the
downward course; there is help in either
position.				M. E. KIMBALL.
	Salt Lake City, June 16th.


FAULT FINDING.

	There is nothing that destroys the happiness
of a home, so quickly and completely as fault-
finding. It is an enemy to peace and con-
tentment. Persons who indulge in this habit
of finding fault at home with those they love
the best, forget that home is the place to make
happiness, and to make this earth an Eden.
One fault finding person in a family can make
a home so miserable, that its members are
glad to go abroad to the neighbors to seek
that comfort which is denied them by their
own fireside.
	What young lady would wish to be num-
bered with the fault finders? Surely none!
Young ladies can do much toward making
home pleasant for their brothers and younger
members of the family, by being kind and
gentle, displaying their company manners at
home with their parents and brothers and
sisters. They can take a great burden from
the shoulders of their weary mother, by assist-
ing to take care of, and teach the children
lessons of good behavior, helping them with
their school lessons, selecting appropriate songs
and recitations for the Primary, getting them
ready to go, and in a thousand different ways
can a thoughtful, loving daughter, make the
burden light for her mother,and be a sunbeam,
a joy forever in the home.
	Girls, don’t find fault if your parents cannot
provide everything you think you want, be
grateful for what you have, and be willing to
labor for what you want. Not only should
girls be willing to work for themselves, but if
their families are in needy circumstances, they
should be willing, and thankful to be able to
assist them.


I fancy I hear some young lady say, "Oh!
it's a pity if my father can't keep me; I'm not
going to live out and earn my own living."
They are too proud for that, and think it a dis-
grace to be self-sustaining.  Girls who talk in
this manner do not look at life and labor in
their proper light.  Labor is honorable; idle-
ness dishonorable.  Girls who have an inde-
pendent spirit, scorn the idea of being depen-
dent, and consider it far more honorable to be
self-supporting, than to be a burden to an aged
father, who has perhaps, worn himself out
providing for his family while they were unable
to take care of themselves; and now when
they have grown to womanhood, and are
abundantly able to earn their own living,
why should they not be happy in doing so;
and if necessary, help to repay the debt they
owe their parents?  Do our parents owe us a
living when we are able to earn it ourselves?
Doee the world owe us a living?  I think not.
I think we are indebted to our parents for our
existence.  Jehovah decreed, that "man should
earn his bread by the sweat of his brow."  and
he further said in the Doctrine and Covenants,
that the idler should not eat the bread of the
laborer.  Let us not want something for
nothing, but let us labor faithfully, and
earnest labor will bring a sure reward.
							M. E. T.


FAITH.

	Faith is one of the firrst principles of the
Gospel.  "By faith we live, move, and have
our being."  We are told "If any are sick
among you, (you) should call for the elders of
the Church, they should anoint them with oil;
and the prayer of faith shall heal the sick, and
the Lord shall raise them up, if they are not
appointed unto death."  But there is still an-
other promise: "If they die, they die unto
me, and if they live, they live unto me, and if
they have committed sins they shall be forgiven
them."  This promise causes me to reflect a
great deal on this principle, and ask myself
the question—how it is that so many among
us, as soon as they are sick, send for the doc-
tor?  If the doctor is a friend, all right; for
the Lord said further: "If ye have not faith
to be healed, you shall be administered to
with mild herbs, by the hand of a friend—not
an enemy.  We read in the eleventh chapter
of Hebrews: "Faith is the substance of things
hoped for, the evidence of things not seen.  By
faith the worlds were framed, by faith Abel
offered sacrifice to the Lord, by faith Enoch
was translated, without faith it is impossible to
please God."  I could rehearse a great many
more evidences on faith, but this should be
sufficient to awaken our thoughts to the im-
portance of the cultivation of a principle so
essential to our life-work.
					SUSIE STEPHENSON,
	Manuscript Paper, Nephi.


Mrs. Z. D. H. Young recently made a tour
of Sanpete Co.’ in company with Mrs. M. A.
Hyde, and Prest. Peterson and wife.
	Clara Barton is still as active as ever.  Her
humane work was carried on in Paris after the
fall of the Commune.  When the Mississippi
overflowed its banks in 1884 she appeared,
laden with relief.  Her work in America,
additional to what has been mentioned, has re-
lieved the sufferers of the Ohio floods, Michi-
gan fires, Charleston earthquake, Texas drouth,
Mount Vernon tornado, and now the awful
calamity at Johnstown.  She is president of
the American Red Cross Society.  The motto
of the American branch is: "Relief in war,
famine, pestilence, and other national calami-
ties."


20        WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 
Woman’s Exponent.
	EMMELINE B. WELLS,	- 	Editor. 
	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah. Terms:
one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months, 50 cts. No
reduction made for clubs. City papers delivered by mail, 
extra for postage one year, 25 cts. 
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space, one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal discount
to regular advertisers. 
	EXPONENT office, No. 25 E., South Temple Street, second
gate east of Deseret News Office. Business hours from 10 a.m
to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday. 
	Address all business communications to 
			PUBLISHER WOMAN'S EXPONENT, 
					SALT LAKE CITY. UTAH.
	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
Second Class Matter.
SALT LAKE CITY, 					JULY 1, 1889.


LUCY  W. W. HAYES.

	A telegram from Freemont, Ohio, announced
the death of Mrs. Hayes, wife of Ex-President
R. B. Hayes on the 25, of June.  The lady died
at half past six in the morning, after an illness of
three days caused by paralysis.  Deceased was
born at Chillicothe, Ohio, August 28, 1831, and
was the youngest child of Dr. James Webb
and Maria Cook; her grandfather, Judge Isaac
Cook, came from Conn., in 1781, and her great
grandfathers fought in the Revolutionary War.
Her father served in the war of 1812.
	Miss Webb was married to R. B. Hayes, Dec.
30, 1852.  During the war of the rebellion, while
her husband was serving in the army, her home
was a refuge for the wounded, sick and furloughed
soldiers going to or returning from the front.
She spent two winters in camp with her husband
in Virginia, and after the battle at South Mountain
where he was badly wounded, she joined him at
Middleton, Maryland,  and also spent much time
at the hospital near Frederick City.
	Of her life at the White House, it is well known
that she distinguished herself by her cordiality
and amiability of manner.  She was highly com-
mended by temperance people, during her four
years sojourn at the White House, for never
allowing wine upon the table.  This fact alone,
shows what her strength of character must have
been, to succeed in carrying out her purpose in
opposition to the custom of society, and the
etiquette of the White House table.
	When we were in Washington in the winter of
1879, Mrs. Hayes was specially kind and consid-
erate, and tender in her feelings toward our sis-
ters, and free from prejudice on our question.
The writer was one of a committee of three to
call upon President Hayes, from the National
Woman Suffrage Convention, and present the
 Resolutions of the Suffrage Association. Mrs.
Sara A. Spencer read them and he smiled as
she read he was reproached for his neglect in
failing to menton the political, civil, or social
rights of women.
	After this part of the interview was
over, we succeeded in securing an appoint-
ment for an audience with the Presi-
dent on the Mormon question.  It was then
he brought his wife in and introduced her to the
party.  Mrs. Zina Young Williams accompanied
the writer and will remember as she does the
pleasant manner in which "the greatest lady of
the land," greeted us and the interest she mani-
fested in the matter we came to present; Miss
Grundy, the writer of society articles for the
Washington papers at that time (since deceased)
says "Mrs. Hayes heard the Mormon wives with
such earnest sympathy as to completely win their

[Column 2]
hearts.  She listened and spoke to them in a
sisterly manner that aroused in all present a feel-
ing of reverence for her noble,womanly nature.  She
invited the party to visit all the private apartments
and when they left sent them through the con-
servatories."
	When Mrs. Hayes visited Utah with her hus-
band in his trip across the continent she was also
very kind and courteous to Mormon women.  The
writer was one of the number who went to Ogden
to meet the Presidential party, while we were be-
tween Kaysville and Farmington Mrs. Hayes sent
and invited the ladies of the party to visit her in
her own car, and we all rode with her to the City.
She looked the very picture of elegant simplicity.
She was presented while here with a homemade silk
lace fichu as a souvenir of her visit, and a remem-
brance from the Mormon women of her attention
to them in Washington.  She was a noble and
generous woman, kindly in feeling and charming
in manner, she captivated all hearts.  We shall
always cherish her memory tenderly and we
deeply sympathize with the bereaved family, and
trust they may find such consolation as can only
come from One who heals all our sorrows if we
bring them to Him.


OLD FOLKS IN OGDEN.

	The Old Folks excursion went to Ogden on Wed-
nesday, June 25, celebrating their annual custom.
Their destination was Lester Park, where all had
been previously arranged by the committee,
who always take the greatest pains to make all
these nice old folks comfortable and have a good
time.  No pains is spared and really the old seem
to dwell upon it with fond anticipation each year.
There were about seven hundred from Salt Lake
and Davis Counties, and something near as
many more from Weber, Box Elder, Cache, and
Summit Counties. 
	It is quite an interesting sight to see so many
aged people together, and the Ogden people
gave them a royal reception.  The Ogden Brass
Band was on the streets when they arrived and 
gave them a hearty welcome.  The old folks
were conveyed in carriages and buggies to the
Park from the depot, and there everything was 
in order; long tables filled with good things and
decorated with flowers were all in readiness, and
young girls clothed in white waited upon these
happy old people.  The Plain City brass band
was also on hand, and played stirring music.
Everything passed of pleasantly, as it ever has
on these occasions, and the Committee must feel
gratified with their work.
	It is a beautiful custom thus to honor the vet-
erans annually, and make them feel they are
not forsaken.  Many of them are jubilant on these
excursions giving expression to their gratitude
for the privilege thus generously granted them.
The people give liberally for these festivities,
and the old folks are just as delighted with their
presents as children are with toys; and indeed
they are very often more for show than use.
There are many funny things said by the witty
ones, and the committee enjoy the jokes and
repartee heartily.
	However it is painfully sad and serious, as well
as enjoyable, and causes many solemn reflections
to pass through the thoughtful mind.
	The EXPONENT adds its congratulations, and
wishes for them one and  all a pleasant and
 peaceful voyage towards the setting sun of their
days upon the earth, and a glorious heritage here-
after, with an abundant entrance into the kingdom
of our Father, whose pity and care is over all,
and who will not let a sparrow fall without his
notice.  God bless the old folks forever, and
long live the Old Folks' Committee to devise
ways and means for their enjoyment each year.


LINES DEDICATED TO THE OLD
				FOLKS.

The dawn of life's morn, has long passed away
To the true, honored, veterans assembled to-day; 
Their sun is fast setting, in splendor to rise, 
In a far brighter land amid sunnier skies. 

Their springtime and summer, are now with the past, 
Both autumn and winter, approaching them fast; 
And the lonely still hours of life's closing day, 
Should surely be brightened with a kind, loving ray. 

O, then let us bless them, while they are here, 
Before they have passed to the other sphere; 
For they've borne the burden and heat of the day, 
In the conflict of life, their locks have turned grey. 

They've labored and toiled, in this once barren place, 
Built cities and towns that our valleys now grace; 
They've conquered the Desert, and made it to bloom
As Nature's sweet garden, in richest perfume.

They've stem'd the swift tides, when the billows rolled
	high
That crushed other barges in weakness, to die. 
Their path has been strewn with the briar and thorn, 
That leave sad traces of what they have borne. 

They've travel'd life's journey, almost to the end, 
Let us cheer their lone hearts as they slowly ascend, 
And bid the kind Angel to watch them with care, 
And tenderly guard, each silvery hair. 

For lonely 'twould be, were we sadly, bereft
Of the dear OLD FOLKS, and none of them left
To guide and direct, the wav'ring youth, 
In the pathway of virtue, of love, and of truth. 

O, treat them with kindness, and never once slight, 
Their gentle tones whispering, "do what is right."
Their words, we'll remember in some future day, 
When, one by one, they have all passed away. 

And let us remember, that we must all tread, 
The same path, traveled by the hoary head, 
And then shall we feel December's, cold breath, 
As we hasten towards the portals of death. 

May they who have parted with life's dearest friend, 
And are left with God only, on whom to depend, 
Find solace and comfort, in each lonely hour, 
For the most brilliant sunbeams follow the shower,

And may heaven bless the dear aged ones,
His noble daughters, and His loyal sons, 
And lengthen their days until life has no charm, 
Then bear them home safely, to rest from all harm. 
										A. C.


A REMEMBRANCE. 

MY DEAR SISTER WELLS:
	I linger in this beautiful place after my pleasant
task is done, to thank you for sending me Nov., 
1st, 1888, of the EXPONENT, I appreciate not only
your candid outspoken reference in relation to 
the book "Reminicenses of the Latter-day Saints,"
referred to during our transit from Provo to Salt
Lake, but I appreciate very much lines written on
"Trials and happiness," by E. B. W.  As well as 
those written by O. F. Whitney to his friend
Hebe, they find an echo in the soul and will be
placed among my choice secelections. 
	My enjoyment was marred at the Provo Con-
ference by being called out to attend to some
special business and then again to take the Train. 
Oh the changes a few years have wrought, the
many faithful Veterans of a few years ago who
have been called hence leave a fearful vacuum. 
Among the number, Ma Smoot, Sister Emily
Smoot, Sister Ruia Holden, Sister Margaret Cluff, 
Sister Jane Gee, and Sister Hester Beebee, and
yet the various institutions and societies of which
they were active members, move on in the hands
of other faithful ones, who have been called to fill
their places, Sister John with her Counselors M. 
E. Daniels and Sister Emily G. Cluff, now repre-
sent the Presidency of Utah County, Sister
Caroline Daniels, the faithful Secretary. Eleven
years have passed since she was appointed, hav-


ing never been absent from her post except once, 
although her health is now, and has been during
the past winter, very poor, still her indomitable
energy urged her out to fill her place, too feeble 
though she was, to go through entirely, she mani-
fested her interest in the work by her presence.  
	I now wear silk manufactured by the irre-
pressible Sister Beebee and her aids.  
	Sister M. A. Till and Sister Goodman with 
Sister Saunders and others whose names do not 
now occur to me, are still interested in that 
branch of industry.  I see Father Graves is still 
deeply interested, would have liked very much to 
have heard him through his remarks on that in-
teresting subject. 
	Thus it is in the magnificent plan of Jehovah, 
the work rolls on, and is not retarded by the 
summons to another sphere of any individual. 
			Very truly yours, 
							L. W. Kimball. 
	Logan temple, Cache Co., Utah, June 27, 1889


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


A TRIBUTE TO "GRANDMA SMITH:"

	Mrs. May M. Smith, was born Aug., 24th, in 
the year 1804, at Crieff, Perthshire Scotland. 
Died of old age on the 15th, June 1889, in Beaver
City, Beaver Co., Utah, aged 84years, 9 months
and 22 days. 
	She has lived the life of a true, sincere Latter-
day Saint, since joining the Church in her native 
land in 1854.  She came to Utah with the Hand-
cart company in 1856; suffering the want, priva-
tion and hardships, incident to that long, tedious, 
never to be forgotten journey, without a complaint. 
Encouraging friends and her dear ones all the way 
(she was then a widow with six children,) never 
losing faith in the goodness and mercies of 
Heaven and trusting implicitly in God for aid and 
protection through every affliction in life.  
	To me, from early childhood, she has been or
seemed,a very remarkable woman, one of nature's 
noblest models.  Being endowed with superior 
intelligence and having acquired knowledge that 
few with her advantages have attained.  She was 
a woman of unbounded faith and unimpaired prin-
ciple, humble and charitable in the most minute 
extent.  She was a thorough logician, a historian 
in the scriptures and biographies of great men 
countries and people.  Being a constant, intelli-
gent reader, and an honest, earnest thinker; she 
was a pleasent, agreeable conversationalist a just 
and noble friend.  
	"Grandma Smith," as she was lovingly and 
familiarly known in our City, has for the past ten 
years made her home in my father's house with 
her daughter, May B. Murdock; and up 'til within 
the last year, could read and write with a clearness 
and beauty, that few middle-aged people display. 
When she became stone blind her strength of 
character, her grandness of soul became most ap-
parent; that purity and excellence which is the 
birthright of the truly good man or woman here 
showed in all its simplicity, yet doubly great for 
'twas of an ethereal, intrinsic quality.  Not a single 
murmur escaped her at this last calamity, she 
meekly bowed to the will of One "who doeth all 
things well."  When I once said to her "grandma 
'tis too bad that you are deprived of your sight 
when 'twas so great a pleasure for you to read and 
write."  She replied "no Julia, God knows best 
and He has always been merciful and kind to me 
and mine, therefore, I will cheerfully and patiently 
bide His time 'til He calls me home." 
	She was at the Manti Temple last September 
with all her children, and had satisfactorily 
finished her work in the House of the Lord.  She 
was sick but eight hours, died as it were going to 
sleep.  She leaves one son Robert Bain, Smith-
field, Cache Co., May B. Murdock, Beaver, Beaver
Co., Mary S. Anderson, Rexburg, Idaho; Jane S. 
Coleman and Betsy S. Goodwin, Rabbit Valley,


Sevier Co., Utah.  All are true Latter-day Saints,
worthy representatives of a genuine mother, and
a just reward for the indefatigable efforts and
teachings of that grand old lady, whom all will
miss, yet, none mourn, for we know her rest is
peaceful and her mission well and nobly finished.
		Affectionately,
					J. P. M. FARNSWORTH.
	Frisco, Beaver Co., Utah June 22nd, 1889.
Logan Journal please copy.


MORGAN COUNTY W. S. A.

EDITOR WOMAN'S EXPONENT:
	On June 22nd, 1889, according to a call made
by a number of the prominent women, of the Co.,
a Mass Meeting was held at Morgan City school
house, for the purpose of organizing a branch
of the Woman Suffrage Association.
	On motion Mrs. Lydia Rich was appointed
Chairman, Miss Delia Smith, Secretary and Mrs.
E. Worlton, Chaplain.  Prayer was offered by the
chaplain, when Mrs. L. Rich stated the business
of the Meeting, and referred to the struggles that
have been and are still being made by our sister
women of the nation.  Said it was strictly a politi
cal movement and all are invited to join in peti-
tioning for our rights. The following women were
then unanimously sustained as officers of the as-
sociation.
	Mrs. H. C. Smith, President; Mrs. E. C. E.
Francis, first Vice-President; Mrs. Cleveland,
second Vice-President; (with Mrs,Addie Hunter
alternate providing she will not act as she was not
present at the meeting,) Mrs. Mary Ann Edding-
ton, third Vice-president. 
	Miss Delia Smith was sustained as permanent
Secretary; Miss Lovenia Francis, Corresponding
Secretary; Mrs. Jeanetta Hogg, Treasurer.
	The following women were then sustained as
an Executive Committe:  Mrs. Emma Clark,
Mrs. E. Wild, Mrs. Avilda Dickson, Mrs. Jane
Brough, Mrs. Louise Carigan, Mrs.Lena Edholm,
Mrs. Sarah Wardley.
	The Constitution of the N. W. S. A. was read
by the Secretary and adopted.  The By-Laws and
Regulations that were adopted in Salt Lake City
by the Utah W. S. A. were then read by sections
and adopted with one amendment viz. The By-
Laws and Regulations of the Morgan Co., Asso-
ciation.
	The organization having been effected the
Chairman announced that speeches would be in
order.
	Mrs. Smith being called responded in a short
address.  Thanked the ladies for the honor they
had conferred upon her, and hoped to be able to
retain their confidence.  Her heart was enlisted
in the Woman’s cause, never could see why wo-
men should be subject to laws she had no hand
in making, nor ruled over by those not of her
choice, that men and women should work together
politically as well as religiously and socially, said
there was a wide field in which women could be
profitably employed,thought they could materially
aid in correcting many of the evils of the day.
	Mrs. E. C. E. Francis then being called made
some very interesting and pointed remarks con-
cerning the object of the organization. Thought
the women had never abused the right of suffrage
and thought its being taken from them a great in-
justice &c.  There were several speeches made
and meeting was brought to a close, prayer by
Chaplain.
					MISS DELIA SMITH, Sec.


﻿			WOMAN SUFFRAGE.

HON. C. W. PENROSE AT THE W. S. A. OF OGDEN.

	I do not understand that the organization of
the ladies of Utah at the present time is to win

[Column 2]
back for themselves alone those political privi-
leges of which they have been deprived; but
to labor with all the rest of the women of the
country who are interested in the question for the
purpose of securing to women generally in the
United States those political rights which they
should enjoy as citizens of the United States.
The Government in which we live is supposed
to be a government of the people.  It is a gov-
ernment of the people, by the people and for
the people.  There was a time when there was
a dispute as to women having souls, but I think
that day is passed.
	I do not believe that any person who is at all
acquainted with the principles of the govern-
ment will dispute that a woman is a citizen.
Not only is she a citizen, but every woman who
becomes the wife of a citizen becomes by virtue
thereof, according to the laws of the United
States, a citizen herself.  So women have in
one respect a little advantage of the men.  No
matter how long she has resided here, if she
marries a citizen she becomes a citizen.  But
although a woman is called a citizen, and is
expected to perform the duties of a citizen as
far as she can and is subject to the law, still
she is deprived of any voice in the government.
She has no right to vote for an officer of the
government—unless, it may be, in some local-
ities they are permitted to vote for school
boards; and in one or two places for municipal
officers.
	In the Territory of Wyoming women can sit
on juries and serve as officers if their fellow
citizens feel inclined to elect them.  In the
Territory of Utah, ladies once held the right
of suffrage, but not the right to hold office.
Although women were entitled to vote, here
they were not entitled to hold office as the word
"male" is retained on the statute.  While as-
sociating with other members of the legislature,
I at one time attempted to get this word
erased, so that women might be placed on an
equality with men—not that I believe that wo-
men are qualified to act as Presidents of the
United States or judges or other executive
officers.  Perhaps some lady will disagree with
me in that respect, but I am open to convic-
tion if she wants to undertake to convince me;
but I am good deal like the Irish lady who
said "I am open to conviction but be my sowl
I would like to see the man that could convict
me."  (Laughter.)  It was not because I
thought they were qualified to hold office that
I desired to have the word erased; but I be-
lieved that there should be nothing on our
statute books which discriminated against any
portion of our community.  And that it should
be left to the good sense of the community to
select what offices women should be elected to
fill, if any.  I think every woman should vote
and have equal rights with the men at the polls;
and for this reason: that every woman is a
citizen, if she was born in the United States, or
naturalized, or the wife of a citizen, and she is
just as amenable to the laws.
	Now if a woman should steal (of course wo-
men would not steal, they are such nice crea-
tures) she is subject to punishment just the
same as the man; and so if she became intoxi-
cated (of course she would not).  If a woman
holds property she will have to pay taxes.  You
don't find any discrimination in that.  Under
our statutes women are permitted to hold pro-
perty.  A woman is an entity; she is a citizen
and can hold property in her own right.  Any
woman can hold any property which she ac-
cumulated before marriage.  It does not pass
from her to her husband as under the old com-
mon law.  As a woman can hold property in
her own right and must pay taxes upon that
property, she ought to have some voice in the
government as to the disposition of the revenue
derived in part from her property.  There are
a great many arguments—no objections—


[Column One]

against women voting; one is that women can
not be drafted into the army, and therefore
should not vote. Well have you not found
some men who would not make good soldiers?
They say a woman is not suitable for this, and
that she is not suitable for that and so on. A
great many of the arguments brought against
the women can also be brought against the
men. There are only a few men who are fit
to be leaders.
	There are certain leaders in the world that
have a peculiar force of character and in-
tellect. It will be so always in this world, and
I believe in the other. There is one intelli-
gence above another as there is one star above
another, and the greater will lead the less. All
of the objections which can be brought up
about women can be brought against men.
There is no reason, I think, why women in this
country should not have a right to vote. There
is another reason I have, and it is this: The
laws of the United States have given the fran-
chise to the colored people. I know a great
many women who are more fit to exercise this
franchise than the colored people. Go among the
people of the south and mingle with them and
see what a low order of intelligence exists,and
you will see thousands who have no idea of
the principles of this government who have the
suffrage, while thousands of intelligent women
are denied it.
	But if we will analyze all the objections
made against woman suffrage we will find that
there is no real basis for them. They say that
it will degrade a woman. How? They say she
will have to mingle in the crowd and be jostled
if she votes. Well does she not mingle with
the crowd when she goes to the theatre, in the
store, in places of business generally? Does she
not travel up and down the same thorough fares
and sometimes have to sleep in the same
sleepers? Are they demoralized by that? Not
a bit. They should have equal rights and
privileges. At one time there was a great deal
of ridicule when the women tried to study for
the profession of medicine. Now do women
become doctors? Yes, and no particular noise
is made about it. And so with every profes-
sion—we find women lawyers. Why, women
operate in Wall street in New York. Some
say it is unwomanly. Why should the woman
not have a right to make money if she has
the ability? There are many things that women
are adapted to and so with men. Now let me
make a little explanation with regard to this
matter in which there is  a great deal of mis-
conception, that is that citizenship and suffrage
are the same thing. It is a great mistake.
There are a great many citizens who do not
have the right of suffrage. No person can vote
except he be a citizen, though in some states
persons who have declared their intentions to
become citizens can vote, but as a rule no per-
son can vote unless he is a citizen. Qualifica-
tions, however, are different in different states
and each state has a right to form its own
local laws regulating the right of suffrage and
the qualifications of voters. That shows that
citizenship does not carry with it the right to
vote. Voting is a privilege, and not a right
and suffrage comes by a grant from the legis-
lature.
	I observed in reading some of the young
ladies’ journals discussing this matter, that
they are going to be superior to men. There is
to be a perfect revolution all over the United
States, the ballot box is to become purified,and
the government is to be purified, and all move-
ments which now actuate the people are going
to be obliterated. Everything is going to be
lovely, and, I suppose, to use an old phrase,
"The goose is going to hang high” (laughter).
I hope my friends in Ogden will not entertain
such nonsense. I believe that women will have
a right to vote, and that when they do there
will be no perceptible change. The principles

[Column Two]

of government will remain the same, and there
will be the same kind of struggle for office,and
the same kind of motives to gain office as there
is now. There is a prejudice and it is nothing
but a prejudice in the United States against
woman suffrage, and it grows out of that old
condition in which we existed under the old
common law, where the man was the head and
body of the house, and when woman married,
she lost her identity.
	I do not believe that women will be elected
to be judges of the Supreme Court of the
United States, or commanding officers of militia
or constables or anything of that kind. The
good sense of the community will select the
offices which they are the best qualified to fill.
Don’t you think a woman can be a treasurer
as well as a man can? There are women who
are fit to be treasurers, and I know of some who
handle the revenue of a city, county or other
government better than some men I have met.
I think certainly that the good sense of the
community would select such an office for the
women as they can fill with honor and profit,
but executive and judicial offices, if I had con-
trol of things, should only be occupied by men.
The female mind is not judicial. Women
generally jump at conclusions, and what would
sometimes take a man an hour they observe in
an instant. In judicial affairs it takes reason-
ing. You ask a woman any question and her
answer is “because.” They jump at conclu-
sions. They don’t count the steps—it is hop,
skip and jump; and often they light right on
the mark. There are offices which women can
fill and a good sensible community would de-
termine what those would be; and therefore I
think the time will come in the United States
that the people will have seen that as a govern-
ment of the people, all the people should have 
the right to vote.
	I want you to understand me clearly, if I
can make it plain to you: In your operations
to obtain the right to vote or hold office, you
should not make the claim as a right; it is not
a right, it is a privilege granted by law.
	I think there is another mistake made by the
ladies in their efforts to obtain this privilege.
That they are endeavoring to obtain an
amendment to the Constitution of the United
States. I believe in Democratic principles.
This is a government in which certain things
are delegated to the general government of the
United States, and there are other powers
which are retained by the respective states.
This is the government for the government of
the United States. A number of states, each
of which is sovereignized in its own sphere, are
joined together in the general government, and
have each given up a portion of their rights to
this general government; and one of the rights
which belong to them and which still remains
is the right to regulate the suffrage. The gov-
ernment of the United States derives its
powers from the Constitution, and it has no
powers and can exercise no powers only as they
are defined in that instrument; and under that
it has no power to regulate the matter. And
so when the women go to Congress and want
the Constitution amended,or the regulation for
voting to be altered, they are working against
the fundamental principles of the Constitu-
tion.
	Ladies and sisters, gentlemen brothers—we
are all brothers and sisters, Jew, Gentile, all
who dwell upon the earth are the children of
the great Father. We are all brothers and
sisters, for God created of one blood all nations
that dwell upon the earth. We are all
children of the great Father. So I say ladies
and sisters, gentlemen and brothers—in your
efforts move upon a sensible line. Do not fol-
low the multitude to delusion or folly. A great
many things are being done and said. You
who are organized need not follow the ladies of
the United States into paths of folly and non-

[Column Three]

sense. You want to study principles of gov-
ernment—and that is one of the important
things I think this association should enter
into. I think you will get a greater interest in
your meetings if they do this. Take up prin-
ciples of government, municipal government,
county government, state government, and
then national government. You ladies should
study these things. And another thing if they
never understood these things how can the
mother teach her boy the true principles of
this government, if she does not understand
them herself. Every boy has a political right
to be President of the United States, and who
knows but your boy may become president?
You can’t tell. Curious changes take place.
You want to understand these things so as to
teach them to your children. We should
teach our children to be obedient to the law.
No community can have order without law—
without law there is no peace, and without
peace there is no happiness, and the foundation
of happiness is laid in law.
	The great difficulty with a great many
parties is that they are not subject to restraint.
They want to run wild. There is a spirit of
independence we must not indulge in our child-
ren. The principles of law should be under-
stood by the mother so that she may teach
them to her son, and that they may have a
disposition to understand what law is. When
you come together let some ladies whose minds
run in that direction take up some principle of
self-government and explain it for the benefit
of the others. We should study these prin-
ciples, and if we find any weak places, find out
how they can be shunned. We want to build
up this government, not tear it down. We
want to establish a good government.
	When you get the ballot use it wisely—
not as a little bit of paper of no worth, but as
something of great inportance. Many of the
men in the states go to the polls like cattle
driven by men. I have heard of men being
carried to the polls, a ticket thrust into their
hands and held until they had given it to the
judge and then hustled out. I do not think wo-
men will do this, but I can’t tell. I think they
will try to understand what they are voting for,
and I think they will vote for good and wise
men. That they will find out the best men for
offices—find out the persons best fitted to fill
them—and then vote for honest men, wise men
and good men. By way of preparation for
that, learn to understand priciples of law and
the principles of government of each little
town, of localities, of the territories, of the
states, of the nation, and then go on if you have
time enough to learn inter-national law, the in-
tercourse between one nation and another.
Use your intelligence for good, virtue, order,
peace and the maintenance of good order, and
the establishment of good government. Women
have a good deal of power which is unseen.
Woman’s power does not consist in rule and
dominion; but in that quiet domestic influence
which she exercises at home. If you do not
get the suffrage, your position is just as essential
as the position of men. You can never be men
if you try to be. There is no use trying. I
have heard women say “O I wish I was a man
only for a few minutes.” There is as much
chance to do good, as you are. Neither can
get along without the other, but the Lord has
designed that they should go together. Nature
has pointed out the path, and we see it in every
form of creation, in the fruits, vegetables, trees,
and in everything there is male and female.
	If there is anything which you are deprived
of, struggle for it. Ask for it, it is your privi-
lege. Do not claim that you are so much
better than the men; but contend for the prin-
ciples of sound reason, contend for the privi-
leges you ought to have as American citizens;
and I tell you, if you can only convert your
own sex you can secure the rights of suffrage.


How many ladies in Weber County are in-
terested in this move? Convert your sex first.
It is only the minority of women that are seek-
ing to obtain the suffrage. I shall be pleased
to see the day when you shall have this privi-
lege granted you. May the day soon hasten, I 
shall hail it, and shall be very thankful to see 
women placed on an equality with men.


﻿WOMANS EXPONENT.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


R. S.,Y. L. M. I. A., AND P. A. REPORTS.

		SAN JUAN STAKE.

	The quarterly conference of the Relief So-
ciety of this Stake, was held at Bluff, May 26,
1889; President Jane M. Walton presiding.
Singing "My God The Spring of All my
Joys."  Prayer by Counselor Wm. Halls.
Singing, "Zion Stands by Hills Sorrounded,"
Roll called.  Stake offioers present, five; local
officers, seven.  Minutes of last conference
read and approved.
	President Jane M. Walton made brief re-
marks.  Said she felt at home with the sisters;
prayed God to give her strength to fill her
honorable position; thought our conferences
were to strengthen us; was sure if we lived up
to the duties required of us we would become
great women.  The general and local officers
of the Relief Society were sustained.
	Presidents of the different branches gave
their reports which showed a marked improve-
ment in most places, which was most gratify-
ing.
	President Kristen Nielson reported the Bluff
Ward Society; also bore her testimony and
hoped to be faithful and true.
	Counselor M. M. Halls of Mancos felt she
had quite a responsibility in reporting all
the associations of that place, but was willing 
to do all in her power.  Said the Society was
not in so flourishing a condition as at last con-
ference, owing to the late disease that had
visited their town, namely, smallpox.
	Abigail Stevens said she had not been home
since last fall conference, her home being in
Burnham; but had corresponded regularly
with the Secretary.  The Society held meetings
regularly; they owned a stand of bees; the
teachers are doing a good work.  "We should
be careful how we train our children; teach
them not to interfere with that which does not
belong to them.  We should always be exem-
plary before them and guard our tongues, and
be careful what we say.  We should always
take a course to gain confidence.
	Counselor Daniel Allen reported the Moab
Ward Relief Society; said he had visited the
Society; they had done very well considering
inconvenices, the average attendance being five
members; they have some little property.
	President Jane M. Walton reported the
Monticello Society; the sisters felt to take hold.
Hoped the time would come when the Society
could be fully organized.  Wanted the
branches to store up grain.
	Counselor Martha Hammond addressed the
conference.  Related her late visit to the gen-
eral conference in Salt Lake City.  Knew the
faith and prayers of the sisters would give us
strength when trying to speak; said the sisters
should not speculate with their grair. She
had been given a mission to get the sisters to
take the EXPONENT, there are instructions in
that paper that we need.  Prayed God to bless
all.
	Counselor Josephine C. Wood, said she felt
well in the Gospel; felt we should be humble
and prayerful,and try and overcome our weak-
nesses; knew if we  were always thus, we 
would be able to stand the trials we are called
to pass through with more patience.  Wanted
to do her whole duty, and hoped she would
always be found on the side of right.
	Bishop Jens Nielson of Bluff, felt to endorse

[Column 2]
all the sisters had said.  Thought the
brethren should join the sisters in train-
ing  the children and carrying out their
praise-worthy ideas.  Hoped the instructions
given during this conference would sink
deeply into the hearts of all; asked God to
bless the society in all their undertakings.
	President J. M. Walton made some closing
remarks; hoped the sisters would all attend
the next conference.  Exhorted the brethren
to go and take them.  Spoke of the duties of
mothers to their children, and the amount of
influence a mother has over her children.
	President F. A. Hammond felt there was a
good influence prevailing.  Said the instruc-
tions were excellent at the late conference in
Salt Lake.  There is a movement on foot to
unite the sisters with the Woman Suffrage
society that we might gain strength.  Endorsed
the remarks in regard to taking the EXPO-
NENT; the sisters should take, and thoroughly
read it.  Urged all the society to get good
books; felt that it could not be impressed too
strongly.  Wanted the sisters to teach tithing.
Mothers! teach your girls to be help-meets;
find something for them to do; idleness comes
from an evil source.  Teach them to be self-
sustaining, and not wait for a man who is
able to keep them in ease and luxmry.
	Conference adjonrned for three months, to
meet at Moab.  Singing, "Now We'll Sing
With One Accord."  Prayer by Counselor
Wm. Adams.
	SARAH JANE ROGERSON, Stake Secretary.

		SNOWFLAKE STAKE.
	The Relief Society Conference of this Stake
was held at Snowflake, June 1st, 1889.  Presi-
dent Emma S. Smith, presiding.
	After a few opening remarks by President
Smith, Sister Mary J. West addressed the
meeting, and spoke of the time when the Snow-
flake Society was organizad, and the course
they had taken to accumulate property.  The
success that had crowned their efforts thus far,
she considered was due to the faithfulness of
the members; and for the peaceful feeling that
existed among them, considerable credit should
be given the head teacher, Sister Jemima W.
Smith.
	Sister Lucy H. Flake said: "The first thing
for us to do, is to do the will of the Lord, and
He will make up to us all we lack.  All of us
have missions to perform, and we should seek
the Holy Spirit to direct us."
	Sister Ann Brewer felt that the young peo-
ple have great blessings and privileges, greater
perhaps than the older ones, as all their pros-
pects are before them.  Urged them to attend
all places of instruction, and improve their
time in learning things of value, as it will
enable them to do a vast amount of good.
	Sister Fannie J. Willis spoke a few mo-
ments; was thankful for the return of con-
ference days, and the privilege of seeing faces
not seen for a long time.
	Counselor Sarah Driggs then addressed the
meeting, on the subject of taking care of the
means in the Society.
	Amelia Cardon bore her testimony to the
truth of this work, and said it will develop all
the good there is in us.
	Counselor Emily J. Lewis said: "We are
living in a day when people are tried, but
whatever may try us let us never deny any
principle of the Gospel, for they are all pure.
Let us try to be one, let us cease to do evil and
seek to keep the commandments of God, and
He will bless us.
	Sisters Sarah Cope, Anna I. Farnsworth,
Mary Savage and Martha Stratton also made
remarks.	
	Frances R. Thompson, Susan E. Allen,
Mary Peterson, Mary D. Farnsworth and


On Monday, June 24, a Woman Suffrage
Association was organized in Manti, for San-
pete Co. Mrs. Ellen Jakeman, President.
Full particulars are expected from the Cor-
responding Secretary, Mrs. Lu Dalton. On
Tuesday 25, a Woman Suffrage meeting was
held at Nephi. Mrs. E. B. Wells and Mrs. Z.
D. H. Young addressed the audience briefly.
Reports of conferences will be published as usual


WESTMINSTER ABBEY.

			BY J. C. KITTREDGE.

CHOIR AND CHAPEL OF EDWARD THE CON-
				FESSOR.	
	With reverent feet one ascends the steps
leading to the ancient choir, which contains
very much that is interesting; although the
objects are covered with the dust of ages.
Hence one looks upon the chantry of Henry
V, which is rather isolated. The effigy of the
king (which is of wood), is badly disfigured,
the head being entirely gone. Above are the
identical saddle, helmet, and shield used at the
battles of Crecy, Poitiers, and Agincourt. The
Westminster boys as they have sat at service on
Sundays, have looked up at the shield and
helmet of the departed warrior. We hope the
view inspired heroism and nobleness. The
helmet twice saved the life of Henry at Agin-
court. The richly sculptured arch was greatly
admired by Fiaxman. Upon it is represented
the coronation of Henry V, as it took place in
this very church, by Arundel, Archbishop of
Canterbury, and Henry Beaufort, uncle of the
king. Over the canopies are badges of ante-
lopes and swans, from his mother, co-heiress of
the Bohuns. The same animals are likewise
represented on the cornice, chained to a tree,
on which is a flaming cresset. This latter was
Henry’s badge, and signified that he would en-
deavor to lead his people in honor and virtue;
also the changes in conduct from prince to
king. The chantry is a distinguished piece of
work. This figure, H (in the ornamentation),de-
notes two founders, and two kingdoms which
he had united, France and England. The
sculpture describes the coat and other accom-
paniments, with peculiarities of the man, and
the following selection:	
	“Vaulted with love unto us.”
	“As if an angel dropped down from the


[Column One]
clouds, to witch the world with noble horse-
manship.”
	Of the statue, which was in English oak, but
a fragment now remains. It was bound in
silver gilt, with head of solid silver.  Two
golden teeth were plundered in the reign of
Edward IV, and all the silver was taken at the
time of the dissolution. By some estimates
Henry V was the best English sovereign to his
time. He certainly achieved great things in
his short career of thirty-four years. He gave
the praise chiefly to God. The lines on his
tomb are indicative of the esteem in which he
was held by the people. Here are some of them:
	“All England mourned.”
	“Hung be the heavens in black; yield day
to night.”
	“King Henry V, too famous to live long.”
	“England ne’er lost a king of so much
worth.”
	He was the principal instrument in bringing
about the annexation of France to England.
He died in the former country. His body was
brought over with great pomp, processions
greeting it on the way. Shakspeare (by far
the greatest of English historians) has made
the life of the king very clear to us. As we
looked on we recalled the words—“Men whose
limbs were made in England.”

TOMBS OF EDWARD III AND QUEEN PHILLIPA.

	These are fine tombs, brass effigies on top,
which are said to be very correct likenesses.
The queen bore her husband many children, a
number of whom died before their parents;
among them the promising Black Prince.
When near her end, the good queen called her
husband, who tenderly loved her, to her bed-
side and implored him to continue the same
truly regal life, after her death, which he had
hitherto led. She also requested that he might
be buried beside her. As an evidence of the
unfaithfulness of man it is reported that at a
tournament in Smithfield the royal widower
paraded with a mistress, forgetting the injunc-
tions of his dying wife. Under the Edwards
England was great; unity having been brought
about by conquest. Beyond is the simple altar
tomb of Edward I (Longshanks). At one
time there was some doubt as to whether his
remains were really desposited there; but not
long since, all conjecture was removed by an
examination which was made; when, to the
great amazement of those who looked,the body,
which had been embalmed, was found in a
state of excellent preservation; measuring more
than six feet in length showing that Edward
well merited the appellation, “Longshanks.”
On the tomb are brass effigies, representing
Edward I and Queen Eleanor, which are said
to be correct likenesses. She was a most ex-
cellent princess; and at her death Edward
mourned her loss. To show his devotion he
erected nine crosses to her memory at the towns
where the body rested during the journey to
London. Charing Cross was one of them.
That great king subjugated Scotland and
Wales. Edward possessed vehement energy
and a strong, conquering spirit. He wished
his body to be carried before the army until
Scotland should be completely subdued.
	The tombs of Richard II and his queen are
also in this enclosure.

SHRINE OF EDWARD THE CONFESSOR.
	
	In this section is the oldest memorial in the
abbey—that of its founder, Edward the Con-
fessor. It is an ancient-looking tomb; and
hither Roman Catholic pilgrims come to this
day. Old armorial bearings are seen upon the
sides of the tomb. This chapel was the holy of
holies of Edward the Confessor. The pave-
ment glows with peacock hues. The coffin is
of stone, iron bound, with a shrine of marble
and mosaics. The tomb was injured at the
dissolution, but was restored by Mary I. It

[Column Two]
was again defaced by the falling of scaffolding,
at the coronation of James II; it was robbed
also at that time. From an elevated position
one can look into the urn. To the left of the
tomb of the confessor is that of Edith, his
queen, the daughter of Earl Godwin, sister of
Harold. In this place the Stone of Scone and
the Scottish regalia were offered. At one time,
behind the shrine were the relics of Saint
Edward, as the confessor came to be called.
There was also a tooth of Saint Athanasius, a
stone with a foot-print of the Savior and a phial
of precious blood. On the screen a fantastic
legend is told of the confessor. The designs
are as follows:
	First—Bishops are showing fealty to the
child.
	Second—Represents the birth of Islip.
	Third—The coronation of the confessor,
1043. 
	Fourth—He sees the devil dancing on Han-
gelt, and abolishes it.
	Here we have a bit of practical history. The
Dangelt or Danish tax had become oppressive,
and Edward did a good thing for his people in
abolishing it. One sometimes sees much mean-
ing in those old, fantastic works of art; they
make history more intelligible to us moderns.
To return to the description.
	Fifth—Describes a scullion warned who has
been stealing from the treasure chest. This
was perhaps a satire on some high official.
	Sixth—he sees the Savior in a vision on an
altar where he is about to receive the sacra-
ment.
	Seventh—He has a vision of the king of
Denmark who is drowned on his way to
England.
	Eighth—Harold and Tostig quarrel at the
king’s table, prophetic of future disagree-
ments.
	Ninth—The confessor in the midst of his
courtiers has a vision of the seven sleepers of
Ephesus, who turn from right to left.
	Tenth—The confessor meets Saint John and
gives him a ring.
	Eleventh—The blind restored to sight by
water in which the confessor had washed. That
superstition may have been the parent of the
one which attributed to the king the virtue of
curing the king’s evil or scrofula, by touching
the patient, which was believed in as late as
the time of Queen Anne.
	Twelfth—Saint John sends two pilgrims to
the confessor to take back the ring, and to say
that within six months he would meet him in
paradise.
	Thirteenth—Pilgrims deliver message and
ring to the king.
	Fourteenth—Edward, warned of his death,
completes the dedication of the abbey.
	With certain suggestive truths in those de-
signs are given a few superstitions, which re-
mind us of the idolatry displayed for Becket
at Canterbury. The observer can learn from
them what the decline in superstition has been.
Let us imagine an English monarch to-day be-
lieving such things? It is true that the world
moves in some directions.
	The shrine of Edward the Confessor forms
an appropriate center of this most ancient
center of the edifice. Not far from the shrine
of Edward the Confessor is the fine tomb of
Henry III. An inscription tells of his long
reign of fifty-six years. The statue is of gilded
brass, representing the king wearing a long
mantle. His son, Edward I, brought from
abroad fitting stones for it.
			[To be continued.]


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


IN MEMORIAM.

	In memory of Sister Elizabeth Stocking, who died April
9th, 1889, at South Jordan.
	Deceased was the daughter of the well known Henry
Arnold of Salt Lake City, who emigrated from England


when she was about two years old, her mother having died
previous, born June 19th 1847.	
	We the Sisters of the Y. L. M. I. A. unanimously adopt
the following resolutions to the memory of Sister Elizabeth
Stocking.	
	Whereas it has pleased bur Heavenly Father to call
from our midst by the hand of death our beloved Sister
and co-worker, therefore be it,
	Resolved that we recognize in the death of our Sister the
loss of a true friend and former counselor in the Associa-
tion. 
	Resolved that we esteem her goodness and uncomplain-
ing endurance, may we emulate her noble example as
sisters of the Association.
	Resolved that these resolutions be put on record and
that we condole with the family who are called to mourn
the loss of a kind and loving mother, eight children being
left orphans.
	Rosolved we send a copy to the family also one to the
EXPONENT for publication.
							MARIA HOLT,
							SOPHIA WARDLE,
							NAOMI V. OLIVER,
							THURZA CASE,
										Committee.


NOTICE.
Dr. Hughes’ Training School for Nurses
	Will open its Second Term October 15,1889, at
her residence on First West Street. The pro-
posed summer term will be postponed on account
of the heat. Students desiring to enter should
apply as early as possible as the usual number of
the class is now nearly complete.

A COMPLETE ILLUSTRATED
HISTORY OF THE GREAT JOHNSTOWN FLOOD
	Is now being published. Agents wanted; secure the
aency for the places of your choice at once.
			H. A. HESS, General Agent,
					123 South First East Street.

R.K. THOMAS
EAGLE EMPORIUM
SALT LAKE CITY.
The Leading Retail
Cash House.
R.K. THOMAS

Special to the Ladies.
AT TEASDEL'S
Will be found the latest styles and productions
in
LACES, RUCHES, EMBRODERIES,
FANS, GLOVES, PARASOLS,
RIBBONS, COLLARS, TIES
And an elegant assortment of
DRY GOODS.
	Special department for Ladies’ Misses’ and In-
fant’s Shoes.
			112, 114, 116, 118 East Temple Street

DAVID JAMES & CO.
TINNERS GAS,WATER & STEAM FITTERS
	Agent for RUMSEY'S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from
the country promptly responded to.
	Address. DAVID JAMES. Box 306, SALT LAKE CITY.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.
