VOL. 18. SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, AUGUST 1, 1889. No. 5.


CONTENTS.
	Hephzibah—A Story.  The Lady Doctors of
India.  Trifles—Sarah Adey.
     EDITORIAL: Royal Wedding.  Editorial Notes.
Why Offended—M. E. Kimball.  In Memoriam.
     Primary Day—Luella Stoker.  Encouragement
—Jennie East.  R. S. and Y. L. Reports—San
Juan and Juab.  Granger Meetings—M. A. G.
Westminster Abbey.  Women in Journalism—
Selected. Woman’s Mass Meeting at Sanpete—
Lucinda L. Dalton.  Notes and News.  Obituary
—Ann Rigby.
	Poetry: Three Chippies—Lu Dalton. Re
quiem—L. M. Hewlings.  Birthday Greeting—L.
L. G. Richards. Response—Wm. Willes.  Jus-
tice vs. Chivalry—Warner Snoad—English Wo-
man’s Review.


THREE CHIPPIES.

I walked in a shady, cool garden,
	One lovely blue day in June,
When all the wild birds were a-warble, 
	Each piping his favorite tune. 
The robin, sang love to his lady,
	The bobolink, “Beautiful Day;”
But I listened, smiling sedately.
	To a wee one who only could say—
“Three chippies! three chippies! three chippies!”

Now what can be meant by "Three chippies"
	In birdland's melodious tongue?
I have it! He means his three children
	Soft cradled the green leaves among.
And these must be wonderful, truly,
	He sings so triumphant a strain;
Dame Nature’s high masterpiece surely,
	Hark! over and over again—
"Three chippies! three chippies! three chippies!"

Dear birdie, I murmured, partaking
	His gushing, exuberant joy,
I wish you delight in your darlings,
	Two lovely wee girls, and a boy.
He paused not to hear the concluding,
	For compliments, cared not a pin;
And, even my glances eluding,
	Again poured his rapturous din—
"Three chippies! three chippies! three chippies!"

Offended, and thinking to pique him
	By feigning to doubt, don’t you see?
I said, no, I’ll never believe it
	Unless you will show them to me;
For often, who boasts all the loudest,
	Has least to establish his claim;
And he who walks highest and proudest—
	With a gush like a laugh he proclaimed
"Three chippies! three chippies! three chippies!"

Oh, wisest philosopher living,
	That never will argue in vain,
Nor can be entrapped into giving
	An enemy one point of gain.
For neither believing nor doubting
	Can alter one fact, high or low.
Let scoffers grow weary with flouting,
	I'll still know, whatever I know,
"Three chippies! three chippies! three chippies!"
							LU DALTON.


REQUIEM.

Oh, June! Beautiful month of roses;
	Grief bides in our hearts to-day;
And we mourn for our bud of promise,
	That has passed with thee away.


Ah! little we heed the sun's shining,
	'Mid summer's beauty and bloom,
While for our sweet bud we are pining,
	Now withered in beautiful June.

The beauty and grace of a presence,
	That made each burden seem light;
Dispensing around us sweet incense,
	Glad'ning our hearts with delight.
Has vanished from sight now forever,
	Its sparkle, lustre, and bloom—
Nevermore fresh garlands we gather.
	All round lies silence and gloom.

O, we cannot refrain from weeping,
	Tears must flow to give relief;
While we yearn for a balm of healing,
	To allay corroding grief.
Who can rend this dark cloud of sorrow,—
	Bring solace in our sore need;
Give hope of a brighter tomorrow,
	Whose hearts are healed that now bleed? 

Dear Savior, thou mighty one risen.
	Lead us thro' darkness and pain,
To see, tho' our loss, it is given
	Our loved one Eternal gain. 
To know there's a clime that is fairer
	Than beautiful June on earth,
Where flowers transplanted, bloom ever,
	Renewed in glorified birth. 

Tho' bereaved, with hearts sorely stricken,
	Groping through darkness our way;
O, give us a faith that provisions 
	The Land of Immortal Day! 
To follow---where Providence leadeth 
	Tho' passing under the rod,
Believing our child, Katie Edith,
	Lives in the gardens of God. 
					L. M. HEWLINGS.
Atchison Kan.


[column 1]
HEPHZIBAH.
IV.
	Weird fancies do possess us now and then,
		And even child-life has its histories;
	Which older grown we fain recall again.
		Remembering how sweet its mysteries.

	Alas, another change awaited Hephzibah,
following close upon her father’s death, the
aged veteran of the village, once “the young
master” at the mill, and for so many years
almost the sole occupant of the old farm house,
where our little heroine had roamed at will,
the dear old grandpa whom she loved so
fondly, passed quietly to his rest as though
falling asleep. The villagers who had known
him all their lives, could scarcely mourn for
one who had outlived his usefulness, though
they honored his memory with many encomiums
of praise, for his good deeds, his uprightness,
his sterling integrity, and for his patriotism
and military title nobly earned in his country’s
defense.
	And little Hepsie as she was now almost
invariably called by the children her play-
mates was disconsolate—and refused to be
comforted, in fact so wild and uncontrollable
was her grief that her philosophical mother
was puzzled. There was so much in the child’s
nature that seemed “from the world apart,”
that it was difficult to tell what one ought to
do under the circumstances. This the mother
knew, for she had studied Hepsie, as she would
a problem in algebra, and found her a much
more subtle thing to deal with, because she 

[column 2]
was constantly revealing new phases of char-
acter. It was more like a game of chess be-
tween mother and daughter, and Hepsie always
managed to keep her mother in a state of per-
plexity, of which the child was totally uncon-
scious.
	“I cannot live without my grandpa, she
sobbed between her screams, he cannot be
without me, let me be buried in the same
grave, he will never be happy without me.
He loved me best of all the world.” Such
random expressions and then the crying was
pitiful. In vain her mother and brothers and
sisters reasoned and explained, she wept floods
of tears, and when at last she could weep no
more, she fell asleep only to awaken is a maze,
as it were, thinking she was in the old house
and grandpa there with her as before this
terrible shock had come upon her. Mrs. H.
tried to make her understand how happy
would be the reunion of grandpa and his wife,
whose name she bore and whom he had so
tenderly loved, and cherished her memory so
faithfully. The child gave herself up to par-
oxysms of grief, piteous to those who loved
her, and her mother now more than ever fully
realized that some change must be made in
Hepsie’s life.
	Meantime the oldest son arrived, from Bos-
ton to attend the funeral and. look after the
property. He paid little attention to the
widow of his brother whom he had defrauded,
though keeping up some appearance of res-
pect to perserve the dignity of his father’s,
family perhaps; but when all was over, and
the family tomb re-opened to receive the re-
mains and sealed up again, and such ceremonies.
performed as were absolutely necessary, and
affairs settled, then he sent adrift the two old
people who had lived so many years at the farm
and were devoted to the old major, with a bare
pittance, not caring if they went to “the poor
house,” or not and they had done faithful ser-
vice and were at least entitled to their living.
His sister-in law courageously spoke in their
defense but he cruelly resented it by saying,
“the very roof that shelters” you and yours
rightfully belongs to me.” “You shall not
have it she retorted, not if there is law in the
law in the land to protect the rights of the
widow and the fatherless.” He felt he had
gone too far, but he was not proud to re-
call his words, and walked away saying he did
not care ever to set foot in the village again.
Before leaving however he barred the widows
of the old home, and put heavy locks upon
the doors and told the neighbors it would soon
be taken down.
	Hephzibah had looked upon the old house
as her own, her grandpa had often told her
she should have the homestead, and all the
beautiful old laces, linen, etc and now ’twas
shut against her, and uncle Elisha had carried
away everything valuable. The child rebeled
and called him cruel and hardhearted; and
protested against being robbed, but all to no
purpose.
	A new era now began in Hepsie’s history.
She was just commencing to merge from child-
life into the realm of girlhood. Her mother
was keenly conscious of the change, and
seriously resolved to break the spell that clung,
around her, and the associations so closely in-
tertwined with her affections, and sent her
away to school, where new scenes and sur-
roundings would break the spell and give
activity to her dormant energies. Mrs. H.


[column 1]

﻿had a friend in whom she reposed great con-
fidence, living in a town about thirty miles
away, the wife of a clergyman, who had no
daughter of her own, and whose superior edu-
cation and accomplishments would be a great
advantage to Hepsie in developing her un-
formed character, and so 'twas settled at home
with the family, and preparations were rapidly
made for the journey.  Letters were inter-
changed between Mrs. H. and Mrs.G., and
the latter was given instructions in regard to
discipilining the mind and character of the
eccentric child whose guidance she was about
to undertake.  The new dresses and other
wearing apparel awakened but little interest
in this unsophisticated child, but the thought
of leaving the dear old places, the familiar
scenes where she had spent her happy child-
hood almost overcame her and she wept bitter-
ly when she was reminded that she was going
among strangers.  However, she was just
beginning to learn that life was not all made
up of fancies, and indeed the death of her
grandfather had worked a radical change in
the tenor of her thoughts.  She was more
serious and contemplative and earth was not
quite so rosy-hued nor the future so unreal as
heretofore.
	One delightful May morning when the
lilacs were in bloom, and the fragrance of the
apple blossoms sweet upon the air, she dressed
herself with more than usual care, for this was
to be her advent out into the great world,
albeit only to an adjoining town, whither she
had never been.  She tripped lightly down
the stairs though her heart was sad, and out
into the grove at the back to say adieu to the
trees and rocks, and brook for she had loved
them all with a childish simplicity.  She
gathered a bunch of violets and pinning
them daintily on her black dress, she went in
to say good-bye to the brothers and sisters
weeping bitterly all the time.  Her breakfast
was untasted, though the choicest morsels had
been prepared for her, and a nice lunch for
the journey.  Gloomy forebodings were in her
mind at the thoughts of leaving her dear ones,
and going forth alone.  She had never seen
Mrs. G., and the idea she formed of her was
not at all prepossessing.  Finally the moment
came, the sound of the carriage wheels and
the lumbering old coach drove up, Hepsie
kissed them all good-bye and climbed into the
stage, her eyes full of tears and her throat
with sobs; the driver cracked his whip with a
great flourish, and the four fine horses darted
forward down the road.  Looking out back of
the coach window, she saw her stately undemon-
strative mother going up the lilac walk slowly,
and wiping her eyes with her apron.
	Hepsie was rather glad her mother wept,
for she thought grown women never cried,
except when some one was dead.  Her own
tears were falling fast, but childish grief is
not of long duration, and she soon forgot her
trouble in the excitement of the journey, the
lovely scenery through which they were pass-
ing and the strange faces around her.
	There were two or three other passengers
and one old lady in green spectacles, who asked
Hepsie inquisitively where her mother was;
then seeing the black crape on her dress she
said, “O your mother's dead, poor thing! and
I s’pose your going to your rich relations.”
“My mother isn’t dead, and I’m going to
school, and I haven’t any relatives except my
uncle and cousins in Boston, and they are too
proud to care for us!  I hate my uncle any-
way, for he has locked up my grandpa’s house,
and says he’ll have it pulled down; and that’s
the reason I’m sent away, because I cried so
much for grandpa and the old house.”
	“Well, well to be sure what a chatterbox,”
and added the old lady, "you'll soon forget all
about it.”  “No, I sha’n’t” said Hepsie, “he
was the grandest man you ever saw;” “I never

[column 2]

saw him,” said the lady. “Well, if you ever
had seen him, you would think so, ane every-
body at the ‘Old Furnace’ thought so,” “Well,
I never,” said the green spectacled lady again;
“what are you talking about, the Old Fur
nace?”   Was Major Hathaway your grand-
father, the man who owned the old factory at B?”
“Well, I do declare; no wonder you thought
him grand, why everybody in these parts
knew him; and as for his wife, though she
died long ago, when I was a little girl I almost
worshiped her.  She was a rare beauty, but
what an ugly name she had, Hephzibah.”
“That’s my name” said the child quickly, “but
they call me Hepsie nowadays?” “Well?
well! I never did,” the old lady repeated
again and again, under her breath. "Why he
was very old, ninety-six or seven he must have
been.”
	Hepsie had wakened early that morning and
she had become so exhausted with crying that
after answering many more of the lady’s in-
terrogations she fell fast asleep in the coach
and forgot her great sorrow.
	It was late in the afternoon ere they reached
the place of destination, and the old lady in
the green spectacles had been put down at one
of the towns on the way.  The stage driver had
been directed where to leave Hepsie, and ar-
riving at the parsonage just outside the centre
of the town of M., he stopped and lifted the
little girl out.  Mrs. G. was in waiting, and
came out to meet her; the driver lifted down
the little hair trunk, that contained Hepsie’s
wardrobe and carried it up the steps.  She
had never been away from home alone before
and was so timid that she trembled with fright,
besides she had been forewarned that she
could not “put on airs” with Mrs. Grovesner.
The lady inquired kindly if she were tired,
and asked concerning her mother’s health, and
then ushered her into a large, square, sitting-
room, so antique and curious in style, as to
cause her to compare it with grandpa’s dining-
room in the old, old house, from which she
was now as she believed shut out forever.
Everything was bewilderingly strange.  After
partaking some refreshment as it was not time
tor “tea,” Hepsie walked out into the garden,
and there again she was reminded of the farm.
The shrubbery was charming, and the apple-
blossoms, dainty perfume scented all the air;
the ground was covered with pretty pink and
white leaves, and the garden seemed like a
fairy bower.
	The house itself viewing it from the out-
side was quite as romantic as the one she
had loved so well, and Hepsie found her-
self wondering if the long dark passages
under the sloping sides of the gambrel-roof,
contained as many old papers as there was at
her grandfather’s, and if so, whether Mrs.
Grovesner would let her rummage them over,
and sit and read all day in the garret as she
used to do sometimes in the past.  When night
came the house seemed gloomy and Hepsie
wondered and was awed by the stillness, for at
home the children made merry music with
their chatter and laughter.  The minister for
the husband of Mrs. Grovesner was the Rev.
Erasmus Grovesner, looked very solemn and
spoke only to “Deborah,” for so he designated
his wife, and Hepsie queried whether he loved
her, he spoke so coldly; for the child had heard
her grandpa talk a great deal about love, and
of his undying love for her grandmother; and
though she could not know exactly what love
meant, still it embodied her childish idea of
true happiness.  Mrs. G. was occupied with
some plain needle work, and Hepsie scarcely
knew what to do with her hands; and was
very restless; besides she wanted to ask a lot
of questions, but she dare not for the silence
to her was something painful.  Finally prayer
was offered in such a stately way, and not the
least impressive to the child, and Hepsie was

[column 3]

informed it was time for her to retire.  Mrs.
Grovesner showed her to a little low chamber,
a long way from the sitting room, and the
hall and stairways were so dark, that she
shivered with fear for she was in some respects
a coward; and the stories of ghosts and giants
were vivid in her mind.  The woman took no
notice of the child, she had been requested to
discipline her, and considered this was the
proper course to take, and, it required firmness
and she was just the one to undertake such a
task.		
	The little room was still as the grave,
and the bed looked as though no one had ever
slept in it, Mrs. G. put the candle down and,
said “good night,” and in a moment Hopsie
fell to soliloquizing as usual, “I’m sure I can’t
sleep, what a dismal place this is, how quiet
and gloomy.  So this is the beginning of the
discipline mother said Mrs. G. would give me;”
and by this time she had burst into tears;
childish relief, and ofttimes a blessed relief to
older children too, when the heart is full to
overflowing.  Poor Hepsie imagined herself
cruelly treated, and at once conceived the idea
of writing her life and making this the first
chapter.  She repeated over and over the mul-
tiplication table and then all the  verses she
knew, and while thus engaged fell fast asleep.
			[To be continued.]


﻿WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


THE LADY DOCTORS OF INDIA.
     “The Englishman’s Overland Mail" says:
In India lady doctors are now familiar to us,
and although at first  they may have been
somewhat ridiculed by those who could not
appreciate their value, they are fast making
their presence felt for good almost in every
corner of the land.  So far as the native
women of this country are concerned, it is
gratifying to note that their success in all
branches of college education is progressing to
the entire satisfaction of their professors.
Not only have they proved themselves to be
generally well fitted for the arduous duties at-
tendant on medical studies, but they have in
some cases succeeded beyond all ordinary ex-
pectation.  Bombay, Madras, the North West
Provinces, and the Punjaub all return flatter-
ing reports on the subject, and when we say
that a class of female students can average
over 700 marks out of 1,000 in a surgical ex-
amiantion, as we hear has recently been the
case, little can be said against their power, or
skill, or aptitude for gaining knowledge in one
of the most important branches of the medical
profession.  Indeed, it appears not unlikely
that women in India may prove themselves by
no means inferior to men in most branches of
the practice of medicine, if the progress made
by native females in hospital work may be
taken as a criterion.  In many cases they have
proved themselves superior to male students
in college examinations, and in no way behind
them in application, power of reasoning and
resource.  The fact that much of their success.
 is due to the great interest taken in their
studies by their lecturers and professors is not
without a certain special significance.


The golden moments in the stream of life
rush past us, and we see nothing but sand; the
angels come to visit us, and we only know them
when they are gone.—George Eliot.
	Run not into debt, either for wares sold or
money borrowed; be content to want things
that are not of absolute necessity rather than
to run up the score.—Sir M. Hale.
	Our brains are seventy-year clocks. The
angel of life winds them up once for all, then
closes the case and gives the key into the hands
of the angel of the resurrection.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

[Column 1]

had a friend in whom she reposed great con-
fidence, living in a town about thirty miles
away, the wife of a clergyman, who had no
daughter of her own, and whose superior edu-
cation and accomplishments would be a great
advantage to Hepsie in developing her un-
formed character, and so 'twas settled at home
with the family, and preparations were rapidly
made for the journey. Letters were inter-
changed between Mrs. H. and Mrs. G., and
the latter was given instructions in regard to
discipilining the mind and character of the
eccentric child whose guidance she was about
to undertake. The new dresses and other
wearing apparel awakened but little interest
in this unsophisticated child, but the thought
of leaving the dear old places, the familiar
scenes where she had spent her happy child-
hood almost overcame her and she wept bitter-
ly when she was reminded that she was going
among strangers. However, she was just
beginning to learn that life was not all made
up of fancies, and indeed the death of her
grandfather had worked a radical change in
the tenor of her thoughts. She was more
serious and contemplative and earth was not
quite so rosy-hued nor the future so unreal as
heretofore.
	One delightful May morning when the
lilacs were in bloom, and the fragrance of the
apple blossoms sweet upon the air, she dressed
herself with more than usual care, for this was
to be her advent out into the great world,
albeit only to an adjoining town, whither she
had never been. She tripped lightly down
the stairs though her heart was sad, and out
into the grove at the back to say adieu to the
trees and rocks, and brook for she had loved
them all with a childish simplicity. She
gathered a bunch of violets and pinning
them daintily on her black dress, she went in
to say good-bye to the brothers and sisters
weeping bitterly all the time. Her breakfast
was untasted, though the choicest morsels had
been prepared for her, and a nice lunch for
the journey. Gloomy forebodings were in her
mind at the thoughts of leaving her dear ones,
and going forth alone. She had never seen
Mrs. G., and the idea she formed of her was
not at all prepossessing. Finally the moment
came, the sound of the carriage wheels and
the lumbering old coach drove up, Hepsie
kissed them all good-bye and climbed into the
stage, her eyes full of tears and her throat
with sobs; the driver cracked his whip with a
great flourish, and the four fine horses darted
forward down the road. Looking out back of
the coach window, she saw her stately undemon-
strative mother going up the lilac walk slowly,
and wiping her eyes with her apron.
	Hepsie was rather glad her mother wept,
for she thought grown women never cried,
except when some one was dead. Her own
tears were falling fast, but childish grief is
not of long duration, and she soon forgot her
trouble in the excitement of the journey, the
lovely scenery through which they were pass-
ing and the strange faces around her.
	There were two or three other passengers
and one old lady in green spectacles, who asked
Hepsie inquisitively where her mother was;
then seeing the black crape on her dress she
said, "O your mother's dead, poor thing! and
 I s'pose your going to your rich relations."
"My mother isn't dead, and I’m going to
school, and I haven't any relatives except my
uncle and cousins in Boston, and they are too
proud to care for us! I hate my uncle any-
way, for he has locked up my grandpa's house,
and says he'll have it pulled down; and that's
the reason I'm sent away, because I cried so
much for grandpa and the old house."
	"Well, well to be sure what a chatterbox,"
and added the old lady, "you'll soon forget all
about it." "No, I sha'n't" said Hepsie, "he
was the grandest man you ever saw;" "I never

[Column 2]

saw him," said the lady. "Well, if you ever,
had seen him, you would think so, ane every-
body at the 'Old Furnace' thought so," "Well,
I never," said the green spectacled lady again;
"what are you talking about, the Old Fur
nace?" Was Major Hathaway your grand-
father, the man who owned the old factory at B?"
"Well, I do declare; no wonder you thought
him grand, why everybody in these parts
knew him; and as for his wife, though she
died long ago, when I was a little girl I almost
worshiped her. She was a rare beauty, but
what an ugly name she had, Hephzibah."
"That's my name," said the child quickly, "but
they call me Hepsie nowadays?" "Well?
well! I never did," the old lady repeated
again and again, under her breath. 'Why he
was very old, ninety-six or seven he must have
been."
	Hepsie had wakened early that morning and
she had become so exhausted with crying that
after answering many more of the lady's in-
terrogations she fell fast asleep in the coach
and forgot her great sorrow.
	It was late in the afternoon ere they reached
the place of destination, and the old lady in
the green spectacles had been put down at one
of the towns on the way. The stage driver had
been directed where to leave Hepsie, and ar-
riving at the parsonage just outside the centre
of the town of M., he stopped and lifted the
little girl out. Mrs. G. was in waiting, and
came out to meet her; the driver lifted down
the little hair trunk, that contained Hepsie's
wardrobe and carried it up the steps. She
had never been away from home alone before
and was so timid that she trembled with fright,
besides she had been forewarned that she
could not "put on airs" with Mrs. Grovesner.
The lady inquired kindly if she were tired,
and asked concerning her mother's health, and
then ushered her into a large, square, sitting-
room, so antique and curious in style, as to
cause her to compare it with grandpa's dining-
room in the old, old house, from which she
was now as she believed shut out forever.
Everything was bewilderingly strange. After
partaking some refreshment as it was not time
for "tea," Hepsie walked out into the garden,
and there again she was reminded of the farm.
The shrubbery was charming, and the apple-
blossoms, dainty perfume scented all the air;
the ground was covered with pretty pink and
white leaves, and the garden seemed like a
fairy bower.
	The house itself viewing it from the out-
side was quite as romantic as the one she
had loved so well, and Hepsie found her-
self wondering if the long dark passages
under the sloping sides of the gambrel-roof,
contained as many old papers as there was at
her grandfather's, and if so, whether Mrs.
Grovesner would let her rummage them over,
and sit and read all day in the garret as she
used to do sometimes in the past. When night
came the house seemed gloomy and Hepsie
wondered and was awed by the stillness, for at
home the children made merry music with
their chatter and laughter. The minister for
the husband of Mrs. Grovesner was the Rev.
Erasmus Grovesner, looked very solemn and
spoke only to "Deborah," for so he designated
his wife, and Hepsie queried whether he loved
her, he spoke so coldly; for the child had heard
her grandpa talk a great deal about love, and
of his undying love for her grandmother; and
though she could not know exactly what love
meant, still it embodied her childish idea of
true happiness. Mrs. G. was occupied with
some plain needle work, and Hepsie scarcely
knew what to do with her hands; and was
very restless; besides she wanted to ask a lot
of questions, but she dare not for the silence
to her was something painful. Finally prayer
was offered in such a stately way, and not the
least impressive to the child, and Hepsie was

[Column 3]

informed it was time for her to retire. Mrs.
Grovesner showed her to a little low chamber,
a long way from the sitting room, and the
hall and stairways were so dark, that she
shivered with fear for she was in some respects
a coward; and the stories of ghosts and giants
were vivid in her mind. The woman took no
notice of the child, she had been requested to
discipline her, and considered this was the
proper course to take, and, it required firmness
and she was just the one to undertake such a
task.
	The little room was still as the grave,
and the bed looked as though no one had ever
slept in it, Mrs. G. put the candle down and,
said "good night," and in a moment Hopsie
fell to soliloquizing as usual, "I'm sure I can't
sleep, what a dismal place this is, how quiet
and gloomy. So this is the beginning of the
discipline mother said Mrs. G. would give me;"
and by this time she had burst into tears;
childish relief, and ofttimes a blessed relief to
older children too, when the heart is full to
overflowing. Poor Hepsie imagined herself
cruelly treated, and at once conceived the idea
of writing her life and making this the first
chapter. She repeated over and over the mul-
tiplication table and then all the verses she
knew, and while thus engaged fell fast asleep.
		[To be continued.]

THE LADY DOCTORS OF INDIA.

	"The Englishman's Overland Mail" says:
In India lady doctors are now familiar to us,
and although at first they may have been
somewhat ridiculed by those who could not
appreciate their value, they are fast making
their presence felt for good almost in every
corner of the land. So far as the native
women of this country are concerned, it is
gratifying to note that their success in all
branches of college education is progressing to
the entire satisfaction of their professors.
Not only have they proved themselves to be
generally well fitted for the arduous duties at-
tendant on medical studies, but they have in
some cases succeeded beyond all ordinary ex-
pectation. Bombay, Madras, the North West
Provinces, and the Punjaub all return flatter-
ing reports on the subject, and when we say
that a class of female students can average
over 700 marks out of 1,000 in a surgical ex-
amiantion, as we hear has recently been the
case, little can be said against their power, or
skill, or aptitude for gaining knowledge in one
of the most important branches of the medical
profession. Indeed, it appears not unlikely
that women in India may prove themselves by
no means inferior to men in most branches of
the practice of medicine, if the progress made
by native females in hospital work may be
taken as a criterion. In many cases they have
proved themselves superior to male students
in college examinations, and in no way behind
them in application, power of reasoning and
resource. The fact that much of their success
is due to the great interest taken in their
studies by their lecturers and professors is not
without a certain special significance.

	The golden moments in the stream of life
rush past us, and we see nothing but sand; the
angels come to visit us, and we only know them
when they are gone.—George Eliot.
	Run not into debt, either for wares sold or
money borrowed; be content to want things
that are not of absolute necessity rather than
to run up the score.—Sir M. Hale.
	Our brains are seventy-year clocks. The
angel of life winds them up once for all, then
closes the case and gives the key into the hands
of the angel of the resurrection.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


BIRTHDAY GREETING AND RESPONSE. 

	To Brother William Willes, on his 75th Birthday, July
5th, 1889. written in Fast Meeting, while listening to
Brother Willes remarks.

	On this thy Birthday, Brother Dear, 
		I wish a wish for thee, 
	Prompted by feelings most sincere
		Of kindred sympathy.  

	Fasting not feasting, we today 
		In every temporal sense:
	Yet, the good Spirit, while we pray
		Gives more than recompense.  
			
	To listen to thy earnest tone, 
		To watch thy silvery hair. 
	Gives pleasure, to the world unknown, 
		And calls forth fervent prayer

	For, from thy lips proceedeth free
		Words of Eternal Truth; 
	In thee a man of God we see, 
		Faithful, e'en from thy youth. 

	The wish, the prayer I breathe for thee, 
		Dear father, brother, friend, 
	Is, that thy days may many be,
		And prosperous to the end.
			
	Thy little grandchild here today,
		A gift of choicest worth,
	Thou blessedst-many more I pray
		Such gifts be thine on Earth, 

	And in that world of peace and bliss
		Of which thou speakest well. 
	May we, in meetings such as this 
		God's power and mercies tell. 
			L. L. G. Richards. 

	Reply to Sister L. L. G. Richards' Good wishes, on
my 75th Birthday, July 5th 1889.

	Tis true, I'm seventy-five today
		I freely must confess;
	And with my heart and soul do say
		No language can express
	The gratitude I feel to Him
		Who lengthens out my days
	That I am healthy, bright and trim
		For which I render praise.

	But, most of all, my thanks are due
		To know the Gospel plan.
	And hope to stand the journey through
		And prove myself a man.
	And never falter; turn aside,
		Or e'en unworthy prove,
	By envy, lust, or worldly pride;
		Keeping my thoughts above.

	The kind regards your verse reveals
		Doth cheer and comfort me,
	And firm and strong our friendship seals
		And sets my soul quite free.
	Should those good wishes you portray
		By me be realized
	They represent a bright array
		By me most highly prized.

	I now reciprocate the same,
		The wishes you express;
	That, every blessing I can name
		For you to cheer and bless.
	And may the honor you bestow
		Upon my hoary head,
	In streams of blessings ever flow,
		Profusely on you shed,
			Wm. Willes.


[Column 1]

TRIFLES.

	"Think naught a trifle, though it small appear,
	Sands make the mountains, moments make the year,
	And trifles, life. Your care to trifles give 
	Else you may die, ere you have learned to live."

	The term trifles, as we look upon it, suggests
to our minds something of little value or im-
portance. Yet, if we consider these trifles, when
brought together and arranged systematically,

[Column 2]

the aggregate will astonish us. This vast
universe is composed of minute particles, each
of which alone is useless; yet when arranged
under the all powerful hand of the Creator,
how infinitely grand and wonderful the result.
Each grain of sand, each drop of water,
though alone of no value, fills its own office
and fits into its own place. Even the smallest
particle has a mission to fulfill. One drop of
water, and one grain of sand, would never be
missed, but by the displacing of these particles
one by one, the faces of continents have been
changed, and oceans have been obliterated.
	Compared with this great world of beings,
each individual is but a trifle, yet, how sadly
one is missed from the home circle, which
gathers at the fireside, though many be left.
To make the gathering complete, the absent
one is needed.
	Our character, good or bad, is made up by
little acts repeated again and again, until
habits become so fixed upon us, that it is
next to impossible to get rid of them. Each
act helps to make up the great fabric of
character which we begin to weave in our
earliest childhood, and continue to old age, and
which affects our destiny, not only for time,
but for eternity.
	An act of charity is a small thing, some-
times, but the giving of a penny; yet some one is
made happy by it, and is grateful for that
which we never miss.
	A kind word is a trifle, and requires but
very little effort on our part, yet how powerful
is its influence; many have been spurred on to
great and glorious deeds, by kind words spoken
to them when they had met reverses, and had
resolved never to try again; and as many more
have gone to destruction for the want of a kind
word at the moment of temptation. Kind
words are like the sweetest flowers which shed
their fragrance round us and make us raise our
hearts in gratitude to our Maker.
	Harsh words are like the thorns and bram-
bles which surround the fairest and most
fragrant blossoms; they sink into the heart as
thorns do into the flesh, leaving a painful and
bleeding wound.
	A tiny spark may set fire to a house, the
flames spread and soon a whole village is de-
stroyed. A miser counts every penny, know-
ing that cents make dollars, and that each one
will help him to make that for which he is
aiming—a fortune; to him, each penny rep-
resents its true value, the one hundredth part
of a dollar. A tiny needle points the way far
across the trackless ocean, and enables the
mariner to keep a direct course. A step is a
trifle, yet step added to step, connects the At-
lantic with the Pacific. A shingle torn from
a roof is a small thing, if replaced at once no
harm will be done, if allowed to remain off,
the rain will come in and with it damage and
ruin.
	The value of a nail is small, but,

	"For the want of a nail the shoe was lost,
	For the want of a shoe the horse was lost,
	For the want of a horse the rider was lost;
	And all for the want of a horseshoe nail."

	A small spring swelled by slight additions,
forms the wonderful Nile. Our mighty Mis-
sippi has its source in an insignificant lake
many miles from its mouth.
	"As minutes make the hours, and hours
make the year, as drops make the rain and
rain makes the floods," so all small things lead
to great ones. From the little acorn springs
the lofty oak; from the tiny streamlet flows
the mighty rivers; from the scattered seed
sown in the early spring time, come the un-
counted millions of the harvest.
	Many of our greatest inventions owe their
existence to seemingly trivial events; and our
most wonderful discoveries can be traced to
occurrences so small that they have been over-
looked for centuries.

[Column 3]

	A boiling kettle suggested the use of steam
as a propelling force, and gave rise to that
iron monarch whose paths cross and recross
our continents. Without this invention we
should still suffer the numberless trials which
our forefathers underwent, when traveling was
carried on in old fashioned stage coaches.
From the date of the use of steam in naviga-
tion and locomotion, people began to travel
more and to learn more of distant countries.
Before this they looked upon traveling as a
trial, now they look upon it as a pleasure.
	A few rude types made of wood, formed the
beginning of the art of printing, by which we
are enabled to become familiar with the
thoughts of the greatest minds. These types
were improved until they attained the per-
fection of the modern printing-press. Still, all
the type in use to-day, and all the improvements
anticipated for the future, are, and will be,
the outcome of the rude invention of Carter.
	"Trifles make perfection, but perfection is
no trifle."
	The swinging of a lamp before an altar
gave to Galileo the idea of a pendulum and
the laws of oscillation. Without this dis-
covery, we should still be using the sun-dial.
	A thing as small and insignificant as an
apple, which chanced to fall to the ground
suggested to the mighty mind of Sir Isaac
Newton, the laws of gravitation and revealed
to him the mysteries of the starry vault of
the heavens. Over both these questions,
he had pondered long; and in succeeding
years, they would have puzzled other brains
as great, if the falling apple had not solved
the problem.
	Victor Hugo says; If it had not rained on
the night between the seventeenth aud eigh-
teenth of June, 1815, Napoleon would have
gained a decided victory over Wellington at
Waterloo and France would have held Eng-
land in her power. The rain made the ground
too soft to permit the manuvres of the artil-
lery on which Napoleon invariably depended.
Could the battle have begun early in the
morning, instead of at noon, the victory would
have been won by the French. The delay
gave the detachment of Prussians under
Blucher time to outmarch the French division
under Grouchy. The French lines, panic
stricken by Blucher's sudden appearance broke
and fled, leaving Wellington victor of the
field. The power of water as a mass is un-
questioned. In a moment, it sweeps thousands
of human beings into eternity. The power of
a few drops at Waterloo is more mysterious;
and yet, they changed the destiny of nations
and revolutionized all Europe.
	Graduating Essay.
		Sarah Adey.
June 29, 1889.


NOTES AND NEWS.

	A Women's Silk Culture Association of
Massachusetts has been formed to introduce
silk culture into industrial schools and the
farming districts of the State.
	The wives of the Archbishop of Canterbury
and Archbishop of York signed the declara-
tion in favor of woman suffrage in the Fort-
nightly Review. So did the lady principals of
Girton and Newnham College.
	According to a paper read at the Woman's
Rights Congress in Paris by Mme. Fries,
women in Sweden are employed as bank clerks
and managers, professors in boys' high schools,
working jewelers, watch-makers, and in every
sort of wood-carving. The education of nearly
every Swedish girl not born to fortune, is in a
great degree industrial. There is no doubt, the
speaker added, that the Swedish women will
soon be granted the right of suffrage.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMILINE B. WELLS,	Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah Terms:
one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months, 50 cts. No
reduction made for clubs. City papers delivered by mail, 
extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Adverstising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space, one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal discount
t o regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, No. 25 E., South Temple Street, second
gate east of Deseret News Office. Business hours from 10 a.m
to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
		PUBLISHER WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
			SALT LAKE CITY UTAH.

	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
Second Class Matter.

SALT LAKE CITY,	AUGUST 1, 1889.


[Column 1]

ROYAL WEDDING.

	"Princess Louise, eldest daughter of the Prince
of Wales, was married at noon July 28 to the Earl
of Fife; it was raining. The ceremony took place
in the private chapel of Buckingham palace.
This is the first marriage that ever took place in
the chapel, which is small and the number of
guests therefore limited. Bride and groom arrived
privately. The Princess of Wales, the Crown
Prince of Denmark, King of Greece, Prince Al-
bert Victor and Prince George of Wales assem-
bled in the Bow library of Buckingham palace at
11:45, and there awaited the arrival of the Queen
from her private apartments.
	The bridal party, consisting of the Prince of
Wales, Princess Louise, Princesses Victoria and
Maud of Wales left Marlborough house, the
residence of the Prince of Wales, at 11:40 for
Buckingham palace. Notwithstanding the rain,
the route to the palace was crowded with specta-
tors and there was a vast concourse of people
opposite the palace. The Prince of Wales was
enthusiastically cheered.
	On their arrival in the Bow library the Queen,
accompanied by the Grand Duke of Hesse, led
the procession to the chapel. It comprised the
Queen, members of the royal family, the King of
Greece, the Crown Prince of Denmark and other
guests and officers of the royal household. The
procession on its way to the church passed
through several royal apartments in which many
guests, who found it impossible to enter the
chapel, were seated. Upon reaching the chapel
he royal personages took seats on either side of
he altar.
	The Earl of Fife, who was attired in a highland
costume and wore the garter of the Duffs, accom-
panied by the groomsman, Horace Farquhar, took
a position at the altar rail and awaited the coming
of the bride. The prince of Wales, with the
bride and Princesses Victoria and Maud of
Wales and members of the household arrived at
the palace just before noon, and were received by
the lord steward and conducted to the Bow library
where the bride was joined by the bridesmaids,
Princesses Victoria and Maud of Wales, Prin-
cess Louise of Schleswig-Holstein, Princess
Victoria of Teck, Countess Fedora Gleichen,
Countess Victoria Gleichen and Countess Helena
Gleichen. The bridal party then proceeded to
the chapel. The bride wore a duchesse dress of
white satin with a flowing train, trimmed with
orange blossoms, a wreath of orange blossoms
and a point de gaze veil.
	The bridesmaids were dressed in blush pink
faille, and carried bouquets of pink roses. The
clergymen officiating were the archbishop of Can-
tenbury, the bishop of London, the dean of
Windsor, domestic chaplain to the Queen, Pev.
F. A. J. Harvey, domestic chaplain to the Prince

[Column 2]

of Wales, and Rev. T. Teigmouth Shore. The
Prince of Wales gave away the bride. The
choral service was sung by the choir of the
Chapel Royal, St. James. The feature of the
service was the singing of a special anthem en-
titled "O, Perfect Love," composed by Joseph
Barnaby. There were many of the ministers
present. Gladstone was also among the guests.
	The Queen wore a dress of black brocade and
appeared to be in excellent health and spirits.
The Princess of Wales was attired in a pearl
gray satin brocaded with silver, and a tiara of
diamonds. After the benediction the Queen
kissed the bride and cordially greeted the groom.
After the wedding there were two separate break-
fasts in separate chambers in Buckingham palace.
One party consisted of the bride and groom, the
Queen and other royal personages and other
guests. Toasts were given to the Queen and
groom. After breakfast, the Earl and bride, the
Princess of Wales and bridesmaids returned to
Marlborough house, the bride and bridegroom oc-
cuping the first carriage. Later in the afternoon
the newly married couple departed for Sheen
house, a surburban residence of the Earl of Fife,
where a portion of the honey moon is to be
spent.
	On arriving at Sheen house the newly wedded
pair were enthuastically welcomed. They passed
between files of Venetian masts decorated with
floral festoons. The house was covered with car-
pet, on which wild flowers were strewn by girls
dressed in white. At night Mort lake and Rich-
mond, in the vicinity of Earl Fife's house, were
illuminated.
	The Prince of Wales gave a reception at
Marlborough house this evening, which was at-
tended by 10,000 persons."


EDITORIAL NOTES.

	When in Brigham City attending the Conference
in June, Pres. Harriet A. Snow took the writer
out to see the Sisters' granary, and it was a very
great surprise to see how energetic the sisters had
been, in building, and saving grain. It seemed
such a model granary that we felt perhaps the
sisters would like to have a description of it given
to them in the Exponent. Mrs. Emilie D. Madsen
has furnished some particulars. The diminsions
of the granary are 43 1/2 feet long 21 1/2 feet wide
12 feet high built of bricks and covered with an
iron roof. It is divided into apartments so that
the grain can be moved from one to another. The
sisters have a considerably large quantity of
grain stored, and prospects of more and it is to be
hoped other settlements will take pattern from
them and build substantial granaries and fill them
with grain for it will surely be needed. 
	We have received a little book of 16 pages, paper
cover, by Elder John Sears, entitled, "Remember 
The Sabbath Day To Keep It Holy." It is writ-
ten on the subject mentioned and quotations
suitable to the matter are used from the Bible,
Book of Mormon and Doctrine and Covenants.
Printed at the Juvenile Instructor Office, price
5cts. The keeping of the Sabbath Day holy is a
commandment somewhat disregarded at the pres-
ent day, and it is well for us all to refresh our
minds upon these things and sacredly observe
the commandments given by the inspired servants
of God that we may not be under condemnation.
It is a serious reflection upon a people professing
to be saints, when they disregard the Sabbath
and make it a day of pleasure instead of attend-
ing to their meetings and partaking of the sacra-
ment. It is to be hoped that this little book will
be circulated among the people and accomplish
the good, the author designed in publishing it.
We are very much pleased with the little work
and trust it may be a reminder to some dilatory
ones of their duties in this regard.


At the General Conference of the Relief Society
in Salt Lake City in April last, there was not
sufficient time for the Presidents of all the Stakes
to make verbal reports. Sister Young's Counsel-
ors had only been recently appointed and
would of course be expected to speak, and
make some recognition of their position,
and the written address from the Presi-
dent herself occupied a part of the time, and
the President called upon the Representatives
from a distance, as many as there was time to
hear from, Sister Willmirth East of St. Joseph
Stake was called for, but as she did not respond
it was concluded she was not present. It was
afterwards learned that she had come after time
and that she was to late to get in. The following
evening the officers of the Relief Society and
representatives from a distance met at the resi-
dence of Sister Young where other reports were
made and much instruction given, but it was not
considered necessary to publish it as it was per-
fectly understood by those present, that it was
for the Presidents benefit, suggestions and hints
to help them in their labors among the sisters.
It is a matter of regret that any one should feel
that a proper representation had not been made,
as it was the express wish and desire of the Pres-
ident that each one should have sufficient time
allotted them.


WHY OFFENDED.

	It seems astonishing sometimes to learn that
every Church in Christendom is offended with us:
Yes offended with the faith which we believe
should be ours and not only ours, but that of
every human being, since God is our Father.
Yet I think I can understand why it is. We are
as a family or a people strongly attached to our
friends; and especially those who are good or
Godlike beings made in His image and possessing
his attributes, we readily love that which we think
is worthy of our affections, and feel to resent an
injury to those persons as much as we would
for ourselves.
	Is not self love, and self conceit, a part of the
ingredients that our characters are composed of?
And when we measure ourselves by sound prin-
ciples and sound doctrine which Jesus gave to
the whole human family we then loose our grasp
upon self conceit and look upon the subject as we
ought to do. I well remember how disgusted
I was with the name of Mormons. And I being
told of a person who said the Lord was not
pleased with the various churches of the Sectar-
ian world and he did not acknowledge them
as His.
	I quietly asked who said it, or made this asser-
tion. Upon being told that it was a young man
in his teens, about 15 years of age: I replied,
does he think that he knows more about this than
our aged Minister Mr. Burgess who baptised me,
and who has been searching the scriptures all his
life and preaching from them for years?  I think
this young man was very cheeky and an impudent
fellow. I do not want to see him or hear him
speak. These were some of my feelings. Ac-
cordingly I judge others feelings by my own. I
believe there are many people who have a sincere
devotion to God, and yet look upon us with dis-
gust and pity us, believing we are deluded.
	Now the question arises how and when did
you change your mind. It was some time before
I would listen to my friends who were going to
hear a Mormon preach just opposite to us, in the
Court house. I was at the time spending a little
time with a friend of mine in the City of Utica
N. Y. Mrs. Monroe. A brother of hers told her
of this people and wished her to go and hear them
if they came that way. Accordingly she did so,
but I would not go. I was tired of excitement
and had joined the Episcopal Church because it


[Column 1]

was free from excitement of any kind. Besides
I told her we had no need of his golden bible.
We had the Savior's teachings, did we want any
more than this to qualify us to come into His
presence.
	She told me he (Mr. Blakesley) preached from
the old bible, I would not object to hear it. Well
said I, can he do that better than Mr. Proll our
minister here in Utica. Finally I was persuaded
to go and hear for myself, remembering King
Solomons words. "He who judges a motto with-
out hearing it is a fool."
	He was showing that a new era or dispensation
was beginning to open upon the world and we
were required to be very particular in observing
our Lord and Savior's teaching while here, before
He suffered death upon the cross. I could find
no fault with this: as we all believed this. But
did we realy delieve it? Did we believe those
words of Jesus, the gifts and graces which
characterized the church should be to you, and
your children afar off, even as many as the Lord
our God shall call. Oh no! We believe they
were given to establish the church and then taken
away because they were no longer needed. But
does the bible say this?
	No: It says they were given for the perfecting
of the Saints, the work of the ministry, the edify-
ing of the church until all came in the unity of
the faith. He also showed that after the death of
our Savior and also all His apostles excepting
the apostle John, a vision was given him in which
he saw another angel with the everlasting gospel
to deliver to those who dwell upon the earth.
	We also learn from this strange people that
many ancient prophecies are already fulfilled and
the remainder will be before the second coming
of Jesus to earth. We read from our old bible
the words of one of the ancient sayings. "The
Lord will do nothing but He will reveal his
secret to His servants the prophets. How was it
when Elijah was caught up to heaven without
tasting death. You remember that he told Elisha
to tarry here for the Lord has sent me to Jericho.
But Elisha said as the Lord liveth, and as thy
soul liveth I will not leave thee. So they went to
Jericho. And the sons of the prophets that were
at Jericho came forth to Elisha and said knowest
thou that the Lord will take away thy master from
thy hand to day. And he said yea I know it, hold
ye your peace, this was done again at Bethel.
But Elisha would not tarry but went with him.
And again the sons of the prophets asked if he
knew that the Lord would take away his master
from his hand. His reply was the same, saying
hold your peace. 2nd Kings 2nd chap.
	Here we see this great event was known to the
prophets: and not only this but many others.
After hearing these sermons and some others the
Bible seemed to me like a new book, and more in-
teresting than any other I had read. I soon be-
came thoroughly convinced that our Savior's
commands were the only ones for us to revere:
and He only gave two; The first was to love the
Lord with all your might mind and strength, and
surely the Ancient prophets did this, to obtain
the great rewards of knowledge of God's works
among the children of men on the earth. They
must become fit temples for the indwelling of
His holy spirit that they may know Him as He is,
and learn of His ways.
	I soon became anxious to visit our Episcopal
minister Rev. Mr. Proll of Utica. I was quite
sure he would be delighted to investigate these
principles, accordingly I went in company with
Miss Ruth Reese. He met us kindly and invited
us to take a chair, saying, so you are going to run
away and leave us, no not run away, I replied. I
came to see you first. Well said he you must re-
member. "Whether there be prophecies they
must fail and tongues shall cease;" but he did not
add the next sentence in the same verse. I added
it for him. "And knowledge will vanish away."

[Column 2]

I said I thought it had, for I supposed I belonged
to the Apostolic Church but it did not have the
gifts and graces which characterized that Church.
	He then said, "whoever shall add to the words
or prophecy of this book to him shall be added
the plagues." Yes I know this to be St. Johns
vision. The bible was not compiled at that time:
This vision was a separate book, and he, whoever
said he saw any more or less, to him should be
added the plagues: but he was told he should
prophecy before many nations kindred tongues
and people. Well said he you are young and will
see the error of your ways and come back. I
must excuse him as he was expected to visit a sick
person. He had no time to investigate. I saw
plainly he could not be persuaded to look at the
subject, yet felt to pray he might at some future
time, if he did not fear to lose his salary. I was
not willing to throw away so much of the bible as
he did. Accordingly I still clung to this gospel
hoping to gain more light and intelligence from
the fountain of light, and be a fit temple for the
indwelling of God's holy Spirit. And it will surely
be given to the earnest seeker.
		M. E. KIMBALL.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


IN MEMORIAM.

	Eliza Jerusha Gibbs Fox wife of Elder Jesse
W. Fox, who died June 26, twenty minutes to
three p. m. at the family residence in the Four-
teenth Ward in this City, was born May 8, 1831,
at Benson, Rutland County, Vermont. She be-
longed to the famous Carter family who figured
so conspiciously in the early history of the
Church, being a sister of "Gideon Carter, who
was killed in the battle of Crooked river in the
Missouri persecutions;" and of John Carter who
was the first one to fall a victim to the cholera in
Zion's Camp, of which he was a member." Her
mother was a convert to the Mormon faith in a
very early day in Vermont, shortly after the
Church was organized in the State of New York
and removed with her family to Kirtland in 1834,
her little Eliza afterwards Mrs Fox being then
only three years old. Mrs. Gibbs was a widow
her husband having died a short time before Eliza
was born. Deceased was brought up in the
Church, participating with the Saints in their driv-
ings, wanderings and persecutions, having lived
in Kirtland, Ohio and partaken of the blessings
there vouch safed to the Saints when she was
only a child, also removed with the people to
Missouri and thus shared in the hardships and
in the drivings from there to Illinois, the City of
Nauvoo leaving there during the exodus from
that place with the body of the people.
	While  camped on the banks of the Missouri
River in 1849, Miss Eliza Gibbs was married to
Jesse W. Fox, and ever since that time they have
together shared prosperity or adversity according
to the circumstances of the Saints.
	Mrs. Fox was a genuine true-hearted wife,
mother and friend. Always ready to minister to
the needs and sufferings of others and exception-
ally devoted fo her own family. She possessed a
cheerful disposition and though she suffered great
pain and was greatly afflicted physically during
several years past, her courage and endurance
kept her from murmuring or repining and she al-
ways had a smile and a kind word for all.
	Mrs. Fox has been the mother of four children
one son and three daughters, two of her daughters
had gone before her to the spirit-land and there
was no doubt a joyful meeting when her spirit left
its mortal tabernacle. Her demise was unlooked
for at the time, though she had for years been
feeble, but her death was sweet and peaceful as
though falling into a quiet slumber. Her hus-
band and family however were greatly shocked
as they were fondly attached to her, and the blow
fell suddenly. The funeral was conducted at the


home at three o'clock p. m. June 28th and was
numerously attended. The greatest respect was
shown to the deceased and the family and the
speakers on the occasion made the most consol-
ing remarks to the living and in praise of the
good character and good works of the one just
departed. We deeply sympathise with the
bereaved husband and family although we feel
assured that their loss here is her everlasting gain.
She has been re-united with her dear ones who
had gone before and they rejoice in each other's
companionship.
	"They are not lost; they are within the door
		That shuts out loss, and every hurtful thing—
	With angels bright, and loved ones gone before,
		In their Redeemer's presence evermore,
	And God, Himself their Lord and Judge and
		King."


JUSTICE VS. CHIVALRY.

Chivalry! women half beaten to death,
	And the punishment—well—say "a week" or a fine;
When scandals as foul as the devil's own breath,
	Crowd Society papers in every line.

Chivalry! yes! with onr streets thronged by girls
	Forced by chivalrous man to starvation or shame,
Learn what women are paid! how swine trample God's
		pearls!
	And oh! change your standard in womanhood's name.

Chivalry! yes! to the rich and the fair,
	To those who command it by tongue and by pen;
But the helpless, the plain, or the poor, oh! beware
	How you trust that mere vision of latter-day men!

Chivalry! yes! but 'mid iron and steam,
	It is justice we want on our history's page—
The chivalrous days are a long bye-gone dream,
	And the once sturdy oak is worm-eaten with age.

There are knights even now; brave knights loyal and true,
	Sound their praise; ay, and sound with unfaltering note,
The glove of the fairest is justly their due,
	Kiss their swords, for they wield them to give us a vote.

Will they love us the less? will they learn to despise
	The hands they have strengthened? a thousand times No!
Tis in strength, not in weakness, true reverence lies,
	Day breaks on the hill tops—the torches burn low.

		English Woman's Review,
			WARNER SNOAD.
June 15, 1889.


PRIMARY DAY.

	June 1, 1889, a lovely morning, the Primary
children of East Bountiful, met at the Taber-
nacle, with their little baskets to celebrate the
birthday of Brigham Young. The children
formed in a line and marched to the bench
under the shade of some fine trees, after the
children were seated, the meeting was opened
with prayer by Sister Easthope. Sister Lucie
Thurgood then addressed the children and told
them the reason why we met to-day. Spoke
of the great and noble deeds performed by
this man of God.
	Sister Dustin then spoke to the children,
said she felt well and happy, to be connected
with the Primary, and wished we could all visit
the grave of the prophet of the Lord. Sister
Easthope then spoke to the children. Carlos
Call recited, "When boys are men." We then sang
"We thank thee O God for a Prophet." The
children then had some games in which they
enjoyed themselves very much, and also in
gathering wild flowers. We then dismissed
the assembly with prayer by Carlos Call, and
returned to the Relief Society Hall; and after
asking a blessing upon the food, it was par-
taken of with a good relish.
	In the afternoon we had a dancing party
for the little folks, and all enjoyed themselves.
At the close, oranges were given to the children
and all left with smiling faces.
		LUELLA STOKER, Secretary,


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


ENCOURAGEMENT.

EDITOR WOMAN'S EXPONENT:
	"A woman that feareth the Lord she shall
be praised."
	I take the Liberty of writing you A few
words of praise and encouragement for our
beloved Stake Prest. Sister Willmirth East.
as I am one of her nearest neighbors and know
ing of her labors and good works in S. L. City
as a Counselor in the Relief Society ten years
in the 14th ward where she was well known
and highly respected by all the good and
honest L. D. Saints. I must say in her be-
half that she has not ceased to continue in her
good works in this far off land where she has
resided for the last ten years and held the
office of Stake Prest of the Relief Society,
both here and in the Eastern Arizona Stake.
And I know for a certainty that she has done
the works of a true and faithful L. D. Saint
in striving to build up the church and King-
dom of God in nursing and cheering up the
sick administering to the wants of the needy
and comforting the distressed as all who are
familiar with her labors can testify; myself
with the rest of the sisters here waited and
looked  with patience for the report of her
labors through the columns of the Exponent
at the late Sisters' conference held in S. L.
City, but it seems we waited in vain until this
late hour which I assure you was a great disap-
pointment to us all.
	Prest. Layton after his return home from
the recent confereuce in Salt Lake at a Sun-
day meeting held at this place remarked that
he could find no Report from our Stake Presi-
dent of the Relief Society, and could not
understand why it was not published. We at
least expected to see a notice of her safe arrival
in Salt Lake City and did not know why a
Sister so good and faithful to her duties could
not receive the least notice or respect that
should be due, as she has written so often to
the Exponent and worked so hard for its ad-
vancement we can but feel that some respect
and notice is due her, from its pages. I can
testify that Sister East has her religion at
heart or else she could not have labored so dili-
gently under the many disadvantages that she
has. I have seen her pass my door in an old
lumber wagon driving her own team going to
the adjonining settlements to fill her appoint-
ments, she did not wait for a carriage to come
after her as many of her Sisters there would
have done under similar circumstances. Both
herself and counselor Sister Mary L. Ransom
have labored incessantly to fill their callings,
and have even waited by the wayside to get a
ride in order to fill an appointment, when I
have witnessed this I have remarked to her.
"Dear Sister East would that I were able, you
would not go in that style to do your duty?"
And her reply to me would be "never mind our
Savior was poor when he was on the earth am
I better than He?" I pray there are better
days in store for her. Both the Twelve and
visiting brethren when in this vicinity always
have called upon her at her home and have
had words of comfort and a kind and hospit-
able welcome. If her home was humble
happiness was there. She is sent for by all
who are in trouble to comfort them which is
one of her greatest gifts, she is beloved by all
the saints here, the Sisters here missed her very
much and long for her safe arrival home to
see her dear face again, as I know, for they are
continually asking about her, these are the
feelings of every Sister that has spoken to me
since her departure.
	Your Sister in the Gospel,
		Jennie East.


Vote the People's Party ticket on election
day and send honorable men to the Legislature.


[Column 1]

R. S., Y. L. M. I. A., AND P. A. REPORTS

SAN JUAN.

	Report of the Quarterly Conference, of the
Y. L. M. I. A. of San Juan Stake held at
Bluff, Utah May 28th 1889, Prest. M. M.
Halls presiding, Present on the stand Prest.
M. M. Halls and Coun. Mary Jones of the
Stake Presidency. Pres. Margaret Adams
and Couns. Jennie Allen and Mary Stevens
of the Bluff, ward also Prest. F. A. Hammond
and Counselors. William Hails and William
Adams. After the usual opening exercises,
the minutes of the last Conference were read
and approved, Pres. M. M. Halls, then arose
and said, she esteemed it a great privilege to
be permitted to meet with her sisters again in
conference gave some very interesting advice
to the young folks, prayed that the spirit of
God might rest upon those who should speak
during the conference.
	Coun. Mary Jones felt like responding to
every call, desired to say what the spirit might
direct, and exhorted us to be faithful and
prayerful at all times.
	Pres. Margaret Adams, reported the Bluff
ward association as doing well. Their meet-
ings during the winter had been very interest-
ing. Sister Mamie Burnham of Burnham
ward, said they held their meetings conjointly
with the young men, and were in a prosperous
condition.
	Sister Martha Hammond reported the as-
sociation of Moab ward as doing well.
	Prest. Moiselle Halls said the Mancos ward
association was in a flourishing condition.
The members all take an active part in help-
ing to make the meetings interesting. A very
interesting programme was then rendered by
members of the several associations of the
stake, after which the general and local officers
of the Y. L. M. I. A. were presented and
sustained.
	Prest Halls, said she felt pleased with the
programme that had been rendered counseled
us to respect those who are placed over us in
authority, also to be diligent in attending to
our prayers, and exhorted us to keep the Word
of Wisdom so we could claim the blessings
thereto. Prest. Hammond had been well paid
in attending our conference, gave some very
good counsel to the young, encouraged essay
writing, spoke on home industry. Conference
then adjourned, Choir sang. Israel awake,
Benediction by Bishop Neilson. Louie M.
White Sec. Mary Hammond asst. Sec.

JUAB STAKE.
	The forty-fourth Quarterly Conference of
the Relief Society of the Juab Stake of Zion
was held in the Nephi Tabernacle Friday June
21st, 1889.
	Pres. Mary Pitchforth presiding: After the
opening exercises of singing and prayer, and
calling the Roll and reading the minutes of
the previous Conference; the Presidents gave
verbal reports of the Branches over which they
presided.
	Mrs. E. R. Mary Udall reported Nephi,
Serena Aaggard, Levan, Mrs. Eliza Somer-
ville Mona, Sister Pitchforth reported Eureka.
The reports were very favorable showing the
Society in all its branches to be in good condi-
tion, spiritually and temporally. The sick and
the needy were visited and comforted and had
their wants supplied. The remainder of the
time was spent in short addresses by Mrs. Mary
Pitchforth, S. A. Andrews, Alice Bascome,
Miranda Bryan, and Bishop Udall. The pro-
per training of our children, the responsibility
of parents, the blessings of God to us as a peo-
ple, were spoken upon. Meeting adjourned
until 2 p. m. with singing and prayer.
	In the afternoon meeting the Secretary read
the 21st, Annual report of the Nephi Society.

[Column 2]

Mrs. A. L. Bigler made a few remarks, after
which Mrs. Andrews sang "My Own Land
Deseret." Mrs. E. B. Wells of Salt Lake City,
occupied the remainder of the time. "We
should cultivate our faith in the Gospel and
confidence in the Priesthood. No one should
think her own example is unfelt or unnoticed.
	We should use the best of language, exercise
as much or more faith and patience at home
than any where. We are rewarded as we go
along in the consciousness of doing right, be-
sides the great reward we expect when our
work is finished. The Lord has wonderfully
blessed the Relief Society since its organiza-
tion." Spoke of the storing of grain, and of
the calamities that were coming upon the in-
habitants of the earth. "We know the
prophecies are being fulfiled, and we should
be prepared to render aid temporally as well as
spiritually." Encouraged parents to send their
children to Primary meeting and cultivate
faith in them. "Young ladies should be care-
ful to marry pure men who are well developed
physically, as well as morally and spiritually,
that their children might have strong healthy
bodies. We ought to systematize our work so
that we can have moments for rest and prayer.
Zion is going to be built up as has been pre-
dicted." Spoke of the courage and heroism
displayed by women in passing through the
severe ordeals which have been brought about
during the persecution for principle and con-
science sake, and said many other good things.
	Sister Pitchforth thought there was an in-
crease of faith in our midst, was well pleased
with her labors in Juab Stake. There was a
good attendance and an excellent spirit in all
our meetings. After singing and benediction
by Patriarch J. G. Bigler, the Conference ad-
journed for three months.
		M. E. Teasdale, Sec.


GRANGER MEETINGS.

	The Relief Society and Y. L. M. I. A. of
Granger held their annual meeting on the
twenty-sixth of June in our new unfinished
meeting house. There were a goodly number
of the members of both organizations present,
also our Bishop Daniel McRae and his Coun-
selors. Visiting sisters from the city were
Bathsheba Smith, Helen M. Whitney, Mary
P. Young, Dr. Maggie C. Shipp, Jane and
Lillie Freeze, Della Eardley and Maria Holt.
The morning session was devoted to the Relief
Society, Mrs. Mary E. Porter, presiding. After
usual exercises, minutes and reports, Sisters
Smith, Whitney, Young and Eardley, also our
Bishop occupied the time in speaking. Ad-
journed with singing and prayer.
	At the intermission a large table was set in
the hall and a feast of good things was par-
taken of, all enjoying themselves heartily.
Afternoon session was the young ladies' an-
nual, Agnes Mackay, presiding. After sing-
ing, prayer and minutes a short programme was
rendered consisting of essays, recitations,
reading and a song with guitar accompaniment.
The visiting sisters then addressed the meet-
ing and we had literally a spiritual feast. Our
associations are all in pretty good condition
considering the settlement is so scattered.
Our Primary is thriving, except that we have
not as many boys, where are they? That's the
question.
	Our Sabbath school is doing a good work
and on the 4th of July, there was an enter-
tainment for the Sunday school at the Ward
house at which time nearly two hundred
sacks of candy and nuts were distributed to
the children from the Superintendent and his
assistants. There was a programme in the
morning and at noon a sumptuous dinner for
all at the same place; afterwards the children
indulged in dancing, which however, was inter-


rupted by the arrival of the Taylorsville
brass band, which discoursed some stirring
music, and in the evening there was a dancing
party for the grown people, and all enjoyed
themselves exceedingly well, there was nothing
to mar the days' pleasure iu the least.
		M. A. G.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

WESTMINSTER ABBEY.

BY J. C. KITTREDGE.

	As one looks from the chapel of Saint Eras-
mus he sees that of Saint John. Among the
various tombs we saw that of Thomas Vaughn,
treasurer to Edward IV. While contemplat-
ing it we thought of the lines in Richard III,
"Where is Gray, Vaughn, Rivers!" The
banners that hang from the walls of this
chapel are carried at the funerals of the
Duval family.

CHAPEL OF ABBOTT ISLIP.
	The date of this chapel is 1532. The abbott
laid the foundation stone of Henry IV's
chapel. The screen is of exceptional beauty,
the carving being an exquisite piece of work.
	We have now come to the descriptions of
what appear to be rather strange objects,
namely, the wax figures. They are found
over the chapel of Saint Islip, and were car-
ried at royal funerals. In early times it was
the custom to bear the bodies of the deceased
kings and queens exposed upon a bier, as is
represented in Shakespeare's play of Richard
III, at the funeral of young Prince Edward.
But at a later date wax effigies were substituted
in their stead. That of Queen Elizabeth is of
importance, as it was probably the first one
made, and as there was great mourning at her
funeral. The one of Charles II is next in
order. Once it stood over his grave in Henry
VII's chapel. There is a figure of General
Monk. William and Mary are together, and
near them Queen Anne. Earl Chatham and
Lord Nelson are there also. The one of Lord
Nelson is of especial importance, as it is
dressed in his garments. All the figures are
attired in rich and appropriate costumes. We
wonder if those specimens were the origin of
modern wax work.

CHAPEL OF HENRY VII.

	This chapel is a great feature in the abbey.
It is the lavish monument of a parsimonious
king. The fact of its construction has some-
thing of the appearance that it was intended to
convey to posterity a different impression of
his character from what it really was. The
building in its day was a fine piece of work,
with its fretted roof and quaint carvings, and
a sufficient amount of the effect of the archi-
tecture remains to give us an impression of its
magnificence. An important feature of the
chapel is that nearly all of England's sover-
eigns from Henry VII to George II were bur-
ied there. When about to survey the chapel
one looks from the portico and sees every
phase of Gothic architecture, from the time
of Henry III to that of Henry VIII.
	We next advance toward the entrance and
come to the great, brass door, with fleur de lis
represented upon it. As we enter the chapel
we see to the left the carved stalls and above
the quaint wooden carvings, representing
monks ridiculing their brethren; also the long
rows of flags suspended from the roof, show-
ing the orders of the bath. Nearly in the
centre stands the large tomb of Henry and his
Queen, Elizabeth of York. This superb piece
of workmanship was made by Pietro Torri-
gierno, and cost the modest sum of 1,500
pounds. The tomb is of  black marble, with
figures of gilded copper. Upon the altar in-
side there is a leg of Saint George and a piece

[Column 2]

of the cross. Besides the king and queen,
James I was buried in the vault. Near the
tomb rest the remains of the young Edward
VI. To the right of the entrance is the grave
of the Duke of Cumberland, the hero of Cul-
loden. We saw, with reverential feeling, in
the centre of the eastern chapel the graves of
the good Dean and Lady Stanley.
	Olicer Cromwell and family were buried
near, but at the restoration they were all re-
moved, with the exception of a daughter who
married a Royalist. From thence was hurled
the dead body of the great protector, and
taken, with those of Bradshaw and Ireton, to
Tyburn, and there ignominiously hanged in
chains, while the wicked Charles II was reign-
ing in his stead. But time is righting and
will right all that. "Time, the test of truth,
love, sole philosopher, which never loses
though it doth defer."
	It is a curious fact, worth noting, that in
this vault, as if in scornful mockery, were
buried the Duke of Ormund and illegitimate
children of Charles II; and, in favorable con-
tact to these, the heroic veteran General
Schonberg. To the right of the main chapel
we enter the south aisle, which contains the
monument of Mary Queen of Scots, whose
body was removed from Peterborough cathed-
ral by order of her son James I. The tomb
is a splendid monument. The alabaster effigy
of the unfortunate queen upon it looks very
handsome indeed. There in majestic repose
she lies, with the familiar cap, or bonnet, upon
her head. At the end of the aisle, with suit-
able slabs and inscriptions, are William and
Mary, Charles II, and Prince Rupert.
	Just opposite this place is the north aisle,
which contains the tombs of Queen Elizabeth
and her sister, Bloody Mary. The monument
to Elizabeth, designed by Paultraine and Critz,
is very fine indeed. The effigy represents the
queen as advanced in life, but majestic even in
old age. It is fitting that England's greatest
queen should be thus commemorated. Never
was the country greater or happier than dur-
ing her reign. But we are all aware of the
fact that she had extreme weaknesses as well as
virtues. She was "one day greater than a 
man, and the next less than a woman." Mary
is buried in the same tomb as her sister. Her
funeral was the last Roman Catholic service
held in the abbey, with the exception of one
ordered by Elizabeth to commemorate the
death of Charles V. In those two services the
long war of the English reformation was 
brought to a close. The eastern end of the
aisle is called "innocent's corner," because the
princeses, murdered in the tower, by order of 
Richard III, were brought hither by the direc-
tions of Charles II. Near the entrance to the
aisle, beneath the monument to his patron,
Lord Halifax, lies Addison. His monument,
as we remember, is in the poet's corner.
	What a cycle of history is contained in
Henry VII's chapel alone! There are the
memorials of the thrifty and enterprising
Henry, the short-lived but useful Edward, the
powerful and cruel Mary, the grand Elizabeth,
the unfortunate Mary of Scots, the noble
Cromwell, the dissolute Charles, the bigoted
James, and the noble William.

NORTH TRANSEPT.
	After leaving the chapel of Henry VII we
wended our way to the north transept. It is
directly opposite the poet's corner, and is
devoted to the monuments of statesmen, as the
other section is of poets. A prominent and
pleasing statue is the one to the memory of
Sir Robert Peel, with date, 1850. A states-
man worthy of honor! The service which he
rendered toward the passage of the reform
bill, with other excellent patriotic work, make
this monument of special note. But by far
the most satisfactory monument in this sec-

[Column 3]

tion is that to the great Earl Chatham. This
is one of the unusual instances where every-
thing favorable has combined to make a satis-
factory result. In the first place, the work of
the sculptor is superior, and for once he em-
ployed his power upon a worthy object. It is
by Bacon. The monument is large, being
thirty feet in height, and cost six thousand
pounds. There is a pyramidal shaft, and the
figures of Britannia, Prudence, and Forti-
tude are represented. The slender figure of
the great earl is seen, in a peaceful attitude,
near the top. The monument is located close
to a door, and attracts the eye in an imposing
manner as one enters. There is likewise a
monument to Henry Grattan, the Irish cham-
pion, with date, 1820. The eye is attracted
to the statue of Wilberforce, the Abolitionist,
the man by whose instrumentality the slaves
in Jamaica were emancipated, which act was
the forerunner of  breaking the shackles of the
slaves in the United States.
	[To be continued.]


WOMEN IN JOURNALISM.

	Writing in Harper's Bazar on "Women in
Journalism," Miss Grace W. Soper says:
One of the highest attractions in the pro-
fession to a thoughtful woman is its opportu-
nities for usefulness in putting the stamp of
print upon worthy objects. Even personal
journalism, which cannot wholly escape the
penalty of its trifling character, has a distinct
value in a discriminating use, and many in-
stances could be given of advantages gained
and prosperity due to the personal items of the
woman reporter.
	Almost every newspaper woman has a few
favorite schemes, which she likes to advance
at convenient occasions for the world’s good.
It is known that one makes an especial study
of cooking schools, and helps their introduction
into the public schools by a line now and then;
another has suggested the need of a national,
flower, and receives all communications on the
subject; another has been the first to write in
favor of manual training, and having received
much disapproval and contempt at first, has
written steadily through the first stages of dis-
favor to a time of general interest in the sub-
ject. Great opportunities for helpfulness are
a part of the common lot of women in journal-
ism, showing the golden side of the shield of
large acquaintance. A brilliant woman in
Central New York might point to a galaxy of
stars—social, artistic, and musical—which she
has fixed in the firmament of popular support.
A reporter in the East, engaged in the arduous
and not agreeable task of police reporting, has
been the means of rescuing many degraded
men and women from complete ruin. Many
women on newspapers conduct quiet little em-
ployment bureaus without fees, for the benefit
of the many who turn to them for advice and
help, and all have opportunities for giving
forth through word and deed more than they
may assimilate from books or experience.
It is, indeed, this constant drain upon the
mental and moral resources upon the sympathy
and upon the heart, as well as upon the mind,
that gives to Journalism for women its especial
cause for weariness and discouragement. The
use made of her many opportunities is the test
of the journalist's character, and as in no
other profession is character marked more
quickly in all its different shades, so in none
are there known to be so many and varied
types of development. "All sorts and condi-
tions" of women are shown through the mirror
of the public print. Their number is equalled
by their individuality, so that it is still impossi-
ble to take the typical picture which would
represent the whole in fair and unmistakable
lines. The woman reporter photographed by


Mr. Henry James may possess but one quality
in common with the book reviewer or the edi-
torial writer—the quality of devotion to her
work and conscientious faithfulness in doing
her duty at its best.
	Women in journalism are particularly sen-
sible of the pleasures inherent in a work which
is a means of influence to hundreds or
thousands of people; they are not less aware of
the various difficulties in its path, more or less
acute according to the social and professional
position and the character of the journalist.
The wife of a governor of one of the Eastern
States, meeting a young woman reporter, as
governers' wives and presidents' wives are apt
to do, said to her, with much kindness: "My
dea, I hear that you have just entered upon
journalism as a profession. May I whisper
one little piece of counsel in your ear? Do
not be easily downhearted, and try not to show
sensitiveness. Men object to women as co-
workers on account of their quickness to take
offence at trifles. Show your superiority over
the occasional disappointments of refused con-
tributions, and be of manly courage." The
necessity of giving plain statements of facts
is often a trial to the imaginative woman jour-
nalist, but no field of literature offers a better
means of training in accurate expression than
journalism.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

WOMAN'S MASS MEETING IN SAN
PETE.

	According to previous call and appoint-
ment, a large number of the ladies of Manti,
assembled on the 20th of June, 1889, to or-
ganize themselves into a Suffrage Association.
Besides the ladies, a few influential citizens
were present who evinced a warm interest in
the proceedings, although they took no formal
part in them. Audience sang,

     "Guide Us, Oh, Though Great Jehovah."

Mrs. Rebecca Wareham offered prayer.
Audience sang, 

	"Earth With Her Ten Thousand Flowers,"

	Mrs. E. B. Wells of Salt Lake City, stated
the object of the meeting to be the organiza-
tion of an association of women of all ages,
for purposes of improving ourselves in matters
literary, formal, social and political; especially
in that or all branches of politics, which
touch on woman's condition and interests in
general, and her state of disfranchisement in
particular.
	Mrs. Zina D. Young of Salt Lake was
chosen temporary chairman, and Mrs. Lucinda
L. Dalton of Manti, temporary secretary.
	The name of San Pete Co., Woman Suffrage
Association was adopted, and the following
named ladies nominated and sustained as 
officers of the permanent organization.
	Mrs. Ellen Jakeman, of Manti, President;
Mrs. Esther S. Anderson of Manti, First
Vice-President; Mrs. Helen Armstrong of
Ephraim,Second Vice-President: Mrs. Tina M.
Erickson, of Mt. Pleasant, Third Vice Presi-
dent; Miss Mary Ann Frantzen, of Spring
City, Fourth Vice-President; Miss Clarrisa
Faux, of Moroni, Fifth Vice-President; Miss
Augusta Swalberg, of Gunnison, Sixth Vice-
President. Mrs. Sarah P. Vorhees, of Manti,
Secretary. Mrs. Lucinda L. Dalton of Manti,
Corresponding Secretary. Mrs. Margaret Kjar
of Manti, Treasurer.
	Executive Committee: Mrs. Catharine Brown
Chairman; Mrs. Belle Reed, Mrs. Margaret
Sloan, Mrs. Mary Luke, Mrs. Sarah P. Rey-
nolds.
	Mrs. E. B. Wells read the Constitution of
the National W. S. A., and it was moved
seconded and carried that the same be adopted
as the Constitution of the San Pete W. S. A.

[Column 2]

	Mrs. Wells read the By-Laws of the Utah
W. S. A., and it was moved, seconded and
carried that the same, with some slight changes
be adopted as the By-Laws of the San Pete
Co., W. S. A.
	It was also moved seconded and carried,
that the San Pete Co., W. S. A., be an auxili-
ary of the Utah W. S. A.
	Mrs. Wells expressed an earnest hope that
this cause will be well supported in San Pete
Co., and that all members and friends will
work together in harmony and order. Re-
counted some of the noble efforts which had
been made by the friends of woman in the
east to prevent the outrageous proceeding of
robbing the women of Utah of the Franchise,
after they had been in peaceable possession for
seventeen years. Opined that so long as men
shall retain their magnificent physicial organi-
zations and proportions, and women their ma-
ternal instincts, there need be no fear that
women will ever take away any of the rights
of men. Said we only need our own on fair
and equal terms. Was satisfied that no less
than ten thousand men in Utah believe in
Equal Suffrage.
	Chairman, Mrs. Young, said the women of
Utah could not be accused of any stain of
wrong-doing in their use of the ballot. They
held, used, and valued that right, for the
good they could do themselves, their sons and 
daughters, and humanity in general. We
hope to regain this inestimable right, and in
some degree help other women to gain it.
	The first regular quarterly meeting was
appointed for Friday, June 28, 1889.
	No further business being presented, a mo-
tion to adjourn was carried, the audience sang
Doxology, and closing prayer was offered by
Mrs. Mary Ann Hyde of Spring City.
		LUCINDA L. DALTON, Sec., protem.


The roses of pleasure seldom last long
enough to adorn the brow of him who plucks 
them, and they are the only roses which do not
return their sweetness after they have lost their
beauty.
	Francis Minor, of the St. Louis, Mo., bar,
has brought out a pamphlet arguing that
women have the right to vote for members of
Congress under the U. S. Constitution. It is
entitled “An Argument in Support of the
Law of Federal Suffrage.”
	The International Congress of Woman’s
Rights, held in France recently, reported the
name of Elizabeth Cady Stanton, Honorary
President for America, Mrs. May Wright
Sewall, of Indiana, was present as one of the
delegates from America. Mrs. Belva A.
Lockwood, of Washington was in attendance
and also attended the Peace Congress.


OBITUARY.
	It is our sad duty to chronicle the death of our much
beloved sister, Jane Ricks whose demise took place. July
1st after a lingering Illness of six months duration. Sister
Jane was the wife of Prest. Thos. E. Ricks of Bannock
Stake and was in her 48th year at the time of her death.
Her many friends miss her companionship for she was all
that constitutes a true woman, gentle and kind in her do-
mestic circle, she was all that a fond mother could be.
Being possessed of exceeding great faith caused her to
withstand acute suffering she under-went in order that she
might cleave unto her family as long as possible. Her
parting was as peaceful as though quietly falling asleep; a
few hours previous to breathing her last, she called her
children around her bed side and gave them good counsel
all was done calmly and serenely knowing that the moment
had come for separation. Sister Jane was an exemplary
Latter Day Saint in all things and died as she had ever
lived. She was an active member of the Relief Society
occupying the position of a teacher.
		Your sister in the cause of truth,
								   Ann Rigby.


CLASS IN OBSTETRICS AND NURSING
     Having unusual facilities in the Deseret Hos-
pital for practical instructions in the above, I
will commence a class, September 30th. A
limited number of positions will be available in
the hospital with wages.
     Students can learn and earn at the same time.
Period of Study, six months, consisting of two
terms.
     For further information please communicate
by letter immediately.
Fee for Full Course, $50.00.
Romania B. Pratt, M.D.,
Resident Physican, Deseret Hospital.

Tickets
ON SALE
TO ALL
PRINCIPAL POINTS
EAST, WEST,
NORTH and SOUTH
----AT----
UNION TICKET OFFICE,
Main Street, Salt Lake City.
C. E. INGALLS, 	J. V. PARKER,
Gen. Pass. Agt.	Div.	Pass. Agt.

R.K. THOMAS
EAGLE EMPORIUM
SALT LAKE CITY.
The Leading Retail.
Cash House.
R.K. THOMAS

Special to the Ladies.
AT TEASDEL’S
Will be found the latest styles and productions
in
LACES, RUCHES, EMBRODERIES, 
FANS, GLOVES, PARASOLS,
RIBBONS, COLLARS, TIES
And an elegant assortment of
DRY GOODS:
Special department for Ladies’ Misses’ and In-
fant’s Shoes.
112, 114, 116, 118 East Temple Street

DAVID JAMES & CO.
TINNERS GAS,WATER & STEAM FITTERS
Agent for RUMSEY’S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from
the country promptly responded to. 
Address. DAVID JAMES, Box 306, SALT LAKE CITY.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.
