VOL. 18.	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, NOVEMBER 1, 1889.	NO. 11.


CONTENTS.

	On Marriage.—Mary Ann M. Pratt. Hephzibah
—A story. Trifling.—Isabel Sears. Faith What
is it?—M. E. Kimball. A. A. W. Queen Isabella
—L. S.
	EDITORIAL.—Editorial Notices. Home Affairs.
In Memoriam. Literary Note. U. W. S. A. A
Puritan Village.—V. R.
	Relief Society Conference. R. S. Report.
The lost Lenore. Dr. Painter. Notes and
News.
	POETRY.—Dear Old Friends.—L. M. Hewlings.
Golden-Rod.—Meta E. B. Thorne. "God Hath
His Plan For Every Man." Caroline Ashurst
Biggs.—Warner Snoad. Even Defeat Defeated.
—Ex. In Loving Remembrance.—Zina E.
Crocheron.


[For the EXPONENT]
		DEAR OLD FRIENDS.

	Dear old friends, the long remember’d,
		Come and smile on me once more,
	Calm bright eyes that long have slumber’d,
		Wake to life! as erst of yane!
	Gentle tones and kindly greetings,
		Which I loved so much to hear,
	Still my poor heart’s anxious beating,
		Come, and quiet doubt and fear.  
	Tremblingly I wait and listen, 
		For the tones I held most dear,
	Sadly in mine eye doth glisten,
		Recollections pensive tear.

	Mem'ries on my soul are thronging,
		Of the dear old days long past,
	Precious seasons, now seculling,
		Dear friends shall we meet at last?
	
	Sunny and golden the mem'ries,
		Like the flush that herald's dawn,
	Are the old friends, the true-hearted,
		Cherished in days that are gone.
							L. M. HEWLINGS.


GOLDEN-ROD

O Golden rod,
	What is this pain that thrills my very heart
		When I thy beauty beauty see?
	Why do the ready tear-drops ever start
		At e'en the sight of thee?
	Have thy rich tresses stolen from the day
		Its very heart of gold?
	Else what this shadow drearisome doth lay
		On all that I behold?

O Golden-rod,
	First harbinger of Summer's swift decline,
		Of fading and decay,
	When fainter seems the suns that o'er us shine,
		Night shades the shortening day,
	So swift, so short the circle of the years!
		The seasons come and go,
	And scarce the fragile violet appears
		Ere comes the time of snow!

Yet, Golden-rod,
	A glory scarce of earth is thine, me seems—
		This pain, like pure alloy,
	Seems to enhance the luster of the gleams
		Of fuller, purer joy.
	For night is but the shadow of the day,
		And winter of the spring;
	Though all are silent now, the song birds lay
		Again through woods shall ring,


Dear Golden-rod,
	Like thine, it may be, shall that angel's face
		Shine goldenly and fair,
	Who soon shall call me from this lower place
		To realms of purer air.
	Though at first sight of him a solemn pain
		My inmost soul may fill,
	Later I shall see radiance, and joy's strain
		Shall all my being thrill.

		META E. B. THORNE.
The Hearth.


"GOD HATH HIS PLAN FOR EVERY
			MAN."

	Take this maxim home to your heart,
		If groping in earth's shadows;
	And the blossoms of faith and hope will start
		And brighten life's dreary meadows,
	And the clouds give place to sunlight's gold,
		And the rocks grow green 'neath the mosses;
					"God hath His plan
					  For every man."
	Though mingled with flowers and crosses.

	Though weary and long the time may seem,
		Ere the veil of the future be lifted,
	And many a radiant hope and dream
		Have into oblivion drifted;
	Yet after a while the light will come.
		And after a while the glory:
					"God hath His plan
					For every man,"
	And the angels whisper the story.

	Then why should ye murmur, and sigh, and fret,
		And follow each bent and calling?
	The violet patiently waits to be wet
		With the dews at the night-time falling;
	And the robin knows that the spring will come,
		Though the winds are around her wailing;
					"God hath His plan
					  For every man,"
	And His ways are never-failing

	Then gird ye on the armor of faith,
		And onward your way keep pressing:
	It may be through valleys of carnage and death,
		Or upon the Mount of Blessing;
	And if by His counsel guided, at last
		He'll lead you up to your glory;
					"God hath His plan
					  For every man,"
	And the angels whisper the story.


[Column 1]

ON MARRIAGE.

	My eye caught a sentence reading thus:
"Marriages are made in heaven."
	Now I will quote scripture, St. Luke Ch. 22-
34, 35, Vs.
	The question was asked by the Sadducees of
Christ, "whose wife of seven husbands would
the woman be, in the resurrection. And Jesus
answering said: "The children of this world
marry and are given in marriage, but they who
shall be counted worthy to obtain that world,
and the resurrection from the dead neither
marry nor are given in marriage."
	Eph. Ch. 5-28, 29, vs. "So ought men to
love their wives as their own bodies. He that
loveth his wife loveth himself. For no man
ever yet hated his own flesh, but nourisheth
and cherisheth it, even as the Lord the Church.
	1 Corinthians Ch. 11-11, vs. "Nevertheless
neither is the man without the woman, neither
the woman without the man in the Lord," Ch.
8-39, vs. "The wife is bound by the law as long
as her husband liveth, but if her husband be

[Column 2]

dead, she is at liberty to be married to whom
she will, only in the Lord." By these passages
of scripture we can draw definate conclusions.
That God has a law instituted in His church
that makes the marriage ceremony binding in
this life and the world to come. For when-
ever God has had a church upon the earth He
has given His servants the power and authority
to marry, that is to bind on earth and in
heaven God does not put this seal and
sanction to any other law that man may make,
man's law only binds together until death
doth us part." Adam, Abraham, Isaac, Jacob,
Solomon, David, Sarah, Hannah, Ruth, Eliza-
beth and all those ancient saints of God entered
into the everlasting covenant of marriage and
God blessed them, and their increase was with-
out end. How necessary then that the young
brethren and sisters who enter into this cove-
nent of marriage should be true and faithful
to each other, never speak against or deny the
order that God has instituted, or make light
of the higher law that will lead them into the
Celestial Kingdom of our Heavenly Father.
We read, "That straight is the gate and narrow
is the way that leads to life eternal and few
there be that find it. But dear Latter-day
Saints we should not be ignorant in regard to
these doctrines and principles made so plain to
our understanding if we will but give heed to
them. Marriage is honorable to all that enter
into it aright and have in view its sacredness.
"Verily, verily I say unto you, except ye
abide my law, ye cannot attain to this glory."
		MARY ANN M. PRATT.
	Salt Lake City, Oct. 17, 1889.

HEPHZIBAH.
X.

What wonders, and what changes time hath wrought
	E'en down among the old New England hills
New light and revelation hath been taught,
	That ev'ry fibre of one's being thrills

	And sure enough the Mormon Elders
preached in the little Puritanical village⁠—in
the schoolhouse, and a large number of people
gathered to hear what new thing they had to
tell;—and forsooth they found only the same
old story of salvation through the Messiah
who would yet come in power and great glory
to possess the kingdom; but the strangest part 
of all was that no one seemed to have com-
prehended the Bible until these Mormon Elders
gave them a key by means of which they
could unlock the sayings of the Savior and
his Apostles, and the Bible seemed to them a
new book. Even on the first evening many
were impressed with the truths uttered by
these unlearned men, and several applied
for baptism at the close of the first meeting.
So plain had been the explanations given in
regard to the remission of sins through Bap-
tism and the laying on of hands for the gift
of the Holy Ghost, that those who received
the glad tidings with willing hearts rejoiced
and were exceedingly glad and desired that
others, who had not heard should have the
opportunity of hearing the same inspired
teachings.
	On the following day the news spread
through the village and the town like wild-
fire that two strangers preaching new doctrines
had made such a sensation and created so much
enthusiasm among the staid and quiet people,
that several of the members of the Congrega-


[Column 1]
﻿tional Church, and some who had never made
a profession of any religion, were to be bap-
tized in a pond just a little way south of the
village.
	The minister on whom the Elders had called
the day before was so excited over the news
when he heard it, that he went from house to
house among his parishioners to ascertain par
ticulars, and if possible to protect them from
the snares of the adversary of souls, and in-
duce them to use their utmost endeavors "to
persuade the deluded ones to give up such
foolish notions as having their sins remitted
by going down into the water, for it was only
a species of Catholicism this promise to remit
sins." But it was all in vain the seed had
been scattered and it found root and grew
and flourished and eventually bore good fruit.
	There had never been at any time in the
history of the oldest inhabitant of that little vil-
lage such an exciting time. The baptisms were
performed as the people who had been con-
verted requested, though the weather was cold
in that section of country even in November,
but none of those who had asked to be baptized
seemed in the least to fear the cold water, it
was a glorious sight to gaze upon these bap-
tisms in this quiet country place and the con-
firmation afterwards at a house near by where
they went to change their clothing. The new
converts hovered around the Elders playing
them with questions almost innumerable, so
earnest were they in their desires to gain
further information.
	Finally after remaining about three days
preaching every evening and answering
questions throughout the day, the Elders
traveled onward, leaving those whom they had
baptized in charge of a brother a resident
there, whom they appointed to preside for a
few days until they should return, and resume
the work so successfully begun. Among the
very first who beleived the truths taught by
the Elders was Mrs. Hathaway who had been
looking forward to just such an event as had
transpired, the coming of a prophet and the
restoration of all things. The minister brought
to bear all his learning, wisdom and influence
to show up the errors and misinterpretations
of Scripture as he called their preaching and
logic. But those who had heard knew it was
not sophistry or delusion, and that there was
no such misinterpretation of Scriptural truths
as he represented, for they were told by the
Elders to take the literal meaning of the
Word of God.
	The conflict between the Church people and
those who had accepted the idea of new revela-
tion was a bitter one, and the consequence
was a gradual division that at last became
permanent. One cannot help feeling that the
commandment given to the Saints to gather
unto one place is necessary, when it is con-
sidered how indignant and revengeful the
people become towards those who accept the
principles of "Mormonism." so called, but in
reality the true Gospel.
	Meantime though persecution raged one
might say yet the Saints met together and
the gifts of the Gospel were poured out in a
wonderful manner, not only in the gift of
tongues and the interpretation thereof but in
the healing of the sick and afflicted, so much
so that Doctors became alarmed as well as
ministers.
	In a neighborhood about five miles from
the village on a farm, the mistress of the
house, the mother of a large family had lain
ill for many years. Eminent physicians had
pronounced her ailments incurable, and her
family had given up all hopes of her ever
coming down stairs again.
	The husband of the sick woman heard the
Mormon Elders preach, and repeat the saying
of the Savior to his desciples, Go ye into all
the world and preach the Gospel &c.—and he
[Column 2]
that believeth and is baptized shall be saved
	*	*	&c.—and these signs shall
follow them that believe, in my name
they shall cast out devils, shall speak with
new tongues, and if they lay hands on the
sick they shall recover, and so forth. Mr.
W—— pondered over these words and he
beleived them; and the Elders also said many
had been healed under the administration of
the Elders of the Church of Jesus Christ of
Latter-day Saints in the present day, as well as
in former times. Faith seemed at once to be
implanted in the heart of Mr. W.— he sought
an interview with the Elders, he invited them
to his house, he listened to their teachings,
and soon became converted to the doctrines
they taught. He told them of the condition
of his wife, and asked them if there was a
possibility of her being healed by faith. The
Elders answered, "if she is not appointed unto
death, and if she will believe sufficiently to
allow us to administer to her in the ordinance
of the laying on of hands she will be raised
up and you will have her in your midst again
fully restored." Mr. W.— listened in astonish-
ment, yet he believed, and accordingly he took
the Elders with him up into the chamber of
the sick woman and introduced them to his
afflicted wife saying, "these are the Elders of
whom I told you, who preach repentance and
baptism by immersion and the laying on of
hands, not only for confirmation and the gift
of the Holy Ghost but also for the healing of
the sick and afflicted even as in the days of
the Savior." "Are you willing to listen to
them and if you can comprehend as I do the
truth of these things, we will ask for baptism
at their hands?"
	The Elders remained a short time conversing
with the sick woman, and she received their
teaching with the humility of a little child,
and her faith was such that she desired bap-
tism but how could she obtain it she asked,
"I am not able to sit up or to be dressed and
how can I be baptized?" said she and the tears
flowed down her palid cheeks.
	One of the Elders replied, "Mrs. W.— if you
have faith in our administration we will lay
hands upon your head, and ask our Heavenly
Father to heal you and you shall be restored
to health, and go down into the waters of bap-
tism, return again to your home, and go about
your daily work as you did before this illness
came upon you."
	"I will exercise faith, for I believe you are
men of God I see it in your countenances, and
I feel a power such as I have never ex-
perienced before." O if my boys were only
here to see you and to hear you as I do, what
would they say?"
	Her husband interposed saying the boys
should be written to immediately, and that she
must not trouble about them,  they would
come home and hear for themselves.
	Finally the Elders administered to her and
she was healed, and the following day with
her husband and two or three of the younger
children she walked a little distance from the
house, to where there was a running stream of
water, and they were all baptized and con-
firmed into the Church, and the words spoken
to her by the Elders were literally fulfilled.
	This manifestation of the power of healing
caused a great commotion; many of the
people round about were well acquainted with
Mrs. W.'s— condition, and could not account
for the miracle that had been wrought, for
they knew some power had been exercised in
her behalf. Her two eldest sons who were
away in College were sent for to come home,
that they might know for themselves of this
wonderful change. One of them, the eldest
was preparing for the ministry, the other to
graduate in medicine. They came home, they
heard the teaching of the Elders, and the
testimony of their mother upon the healing
[Column 3]
power manifest through the holy priesthood,
and they soon became convinced it was some-
thing which far exceeded the learning of the
world. They gave up their worldly professions,
they became converted to the Gospel which
their parents had embraced, and they too were
baptized, and afterwards ordained, and pro-
claimed the glad tidings and truths taught
them to all who would hear. But the young
men with whom they had studied would not
accept the message they brought, and ridiculed
them for believing what they knew and testi-
fied to be the truth. It was hard for them, but
they found immediately after their baptism,
that they could not finish the studies they had
intended at the College; prejudice was too
bitter, and all sorts of rumors concerning the
"Mormons," were retailed at large. But these
young men had counted the cost, and had
decided to serve God, and preach the Ever-
lasting Gospel, revealed again through Joseph
Smith, instead of accepting earthly honors and
false creeds. And here for a little time we
will leave them, rejoicing in their new-found
faith, enjoying the gifts and blessings per-
taining thereto.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


TRIFLING.
	Human nature is far from perfect, even the
best of men and women have many faults, yet
of all faults the most deplorable in my sight is
trifling.
	As we pass through life what sadder sight do
we see than a man who has trifled away his
talents, even though they were of no more than
ordinary merit? Had his talents been culti-
vated no doubt many a man might have made
a name for himself in some profession, or as a
man of letters, who is now no honor to his
family and a burden to society.
	We have an example of a man born with
more than ordinary talent in our poet Poe.
He died in the prime of life in the gutter—in-
toxicated. He has left us weird tales which
are of the first rank in literature, but after
reading them we can not help thinking what
might he have done had he not trifled with the
genius with which he was endowed by his
Maker.
	Let us say with the sage “Make me neither
better nor worse than my fellow man,” for in 
mediocrity is safety. We cannot all be
geniuses neither are we all born with feeble
minds, yet if the human mind is not exercised
how can we expect it to retain its original
activity?	
	We are as yet school-boys and school-girls, 
and it is now that our characters are being
formed. If we trifle now we will regret it in
the years to come. Let us hope that in after
years we shall not have it said of us, “He
might have been a credit to his friends and
himself had he not trifled away his time.”
						ISABEL SEARS.


WOMAN:—You talk about the fire of genius.
Many a blessed woman who dies unsung and
unremembered has given out more of the real
vital heat that keeps the life in human souls,
without a spark flitting through her humble
chimney to tell the world about it, than would
set a dozen theories smoking, or a hundred odes
simmering in the brains of so many men of
genius.—O. W. Holmes.
	OVER-WORKED WIFE AND MOTHER.—Noth-
ing is more thoroughly mistaken than the idea
that a woman fulfils her duty by doing an
amount of work that is far beyond her strength.
She not only does not fulfil her duty, but she
most singularly fails in it, and the failure is
truly deplorable. There can be no sadder sight
than that of a broken-down, over-worked wife
or mother—a woman who is tired all her life
through.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


CAROLINE ASHURST BIGGS.

A pearl is lost from Honor's stainless crown !
Ay ! but the Angels carried it above. 
The task God bade His servant here lay down,
Was but the prelude to His life of love.
Above the blossoms of pure woman-life
(Not all unmingled with the laurel’s sheen)
The Past’s full measure of a noble strife,
The sobbing wail of all that might have been :
Glows like the glory of the setting sun, 
The radiance of the welcome home, "Well done!”
							WARNER SNOAD.
THE LILIES, LEE, S. E.
Sept. 7, 1889.


EVEN DEFEAT DEFEATED.

BY HATTIE TYNG GRISWOLD.

"O will the right not triumph at the last?"
We cry, as sick at heart we view earth's plain,
Where love and hate have grappled once again,
Renewed the ceaseless warfare of the past,
The unending struggle, still so fierce, so vast,
And still for answer comes the impassioned strain:
“When first the Universe sprang from God's brain,
And forth into the formless void was cast,
He said that it was good; and so to day,
In firmest faith we answer give once more:
The right must triumph, death and hell must die,
Though proud they stretch to clutch the sky away
Wherein the bow of promise, as of yore,
Proclaims the surety given by God Most High."
		Ex.

IN LOVING REMEMBRANCE.

OF LITTLE OWEN HOWARD.

In realms of peace, love, joy and light, 
As pure as an immortal flower."
Where Jesus and His angels dwell
In midst of glory, and great power.

Where all good spirits dwell in peace,
Where there's no suffering to mar
The spirits of departed souls,
Wh've gone to live where glories are.

Dear little Owen's but gone back,
To his own blessed home above;
To mingle with his little friends,
With whom he used to live, and love.

Jesus alone, can you console,
And comfort, with His spirit sweet
As He has done at countless times,
Of those who have followed at His feet.

Jesus had sorrows all His life,
When there were few to show their love,
But being filled with Holy Grace
Like His own Father up above,

He fought His battles brave and true,
He counted not His trials vain,
For "through long suffering" said He
"Were perfect made for heavenly aim."

With Jesus, prophets, angels now,
Your baby is in glory placed,
And he will wait for you to come
And mingle with the good and blessed
	Lovingly,
		ZINA E. CROCHERON.
Bountiful, Sept. 8th, 1889.


[Column 1]
		﻿FAITH WHAT IS IT?
	We are told it is a gift of God. You may
then ask as a friend once said to me: Am I to
blame if faith has not been given to me? Let
us reflect. We read in holy writ that the just
shall live by faith. Romans 1st chap. 17 v.
Will our Father withhold any thing from us
which we justly merit. Are we just and true
to ourselves and our fellows: Being made in
the image of God should not we possess the
[Column 2]
same attributes or virtues? We can love and
also hate that which annoys and vexes us, if
we choose: not governing that passion; which
charity sometimes prompts us to do in this
fallen world; for human nature is frail at best:
Accordingly when light and truth take posses-
sion of our minds we find that these virtues
are really ours but lie dormant until called
into action by gospel truths, then our attention
is attracted by things of such great importance
that trifles that annoy and vexed us at other
times are hardly noticeable now, we look at
them as only passing events which will soon
disappear, for in reality these have but little
weight and will soon be blown away as chaff.
	In my opinion those who have cultivated
the gift of faith in God our Father can tell
us best what the benefits are of the same. The
Apostle Paul is certainly one of those persons.
He says: Now faith is the substance of things
hoped for, the evidence of things not seen;
The Prophet Joseph said, the appearance of
things hoped for, etc. We can here form a
correct idea of what faith is.
	The Book of Mormon illustrates it still
more clearly to my mind. On page 300 we
read the words of the Prophet Alma thus.
Now as I said concerning faith, that it was
not a perfect knowledge, even so with my
words. Ye can not know of this surety at
first, unto perfection, any more than faith is a
perfect knowledge. But behold if ye will
awake and arouse your faculties even to an
experiment upon my words, and exercise a
particle of faith, even to desire to believe, let
this desire work in you even until you believe
in a manner that ye can give place for a
portion of my words.
	He then compares the word unto a seed
that may be planted in your heart, “behold if
it be a true seed, or a good seed, and if ye do not
cast it out by your unbelief, that ye resist the
Spirit of the Lord, behold it will begin to swell
within your breasts; and when you feel these
swelling motions, ye will begin to say, it must
needs be that this is a good seed, or the word
is good, for it beggineth to enlarge my soul,
and to enlighten my understanding, yea it is
delicious to me.”
	The Prophet Alma goes on to say, after
proper nourishment a sprout will shoot out,
then another, until it becomes a tree. But if
neglected it may then die. Accordingly you
must nourish the tree until you obtain the
fruit. Then you have obtained a knowledge
through your diligence and faithfulness which
is equal to the fruit of the tree of life. It is
no longer faith it is knowledge.
	But if ye neglect the tree and take no
thought for its nourishment, behold it will not
get any root, and when the heat of the sun
cometh and scorcheth it, because it hath no
root, it withers away; and ye pluck it up and
cast it out. Now this is not because the seed
was not good, neither was it because the fruit
of it was not desirable; but it was because your
ground was barren, and ye will not nourish
the tree, therefore ye cannot have the fruit
thereof, and thus if ye will not nourish the
word looking forward with an eye of faith to
the fruit thereof, ye can never pluck of the
fruit of the tree of life.
	This reminds me of our Savior’s prayer for
His disciples. His prayer to His Father was:
“Sanctify them through thy truth thy word is
truth.
	Emanuel Sweedenborg who was born in
Sweden also says. You cannot build anything
on earth which will reach heaven. He says
that the scriptures and words of inspired men
are a ladder let down from heaven for our bene-
fit, and the only way to ascend to God, our
Father.
	We also remember the rich man who asked
father Abraham to send some one to his
brethren, lest they come to this place of tor-
[Column 3]
ment. The answer was “they have Moses
and the prophets, if they will not hear them
neither will they listen though one arose from
the dead.
	Can we find a more important lesson? Or
one more worthy of our diligent and faith-
ful study. In my opinion we should be as
earnest as those who study science, believing
the result will be that which arrives to per-
fection. Then great will be our joy and re-
joicing, both in this world and also in the
next.
					M. E. KIMBALL.
Oct. 22nd 1889.


A. A. W.

	The Association for the Advancement for
Women held their Seventeenth Congress
in Unity Church, Broadway, Denver, Colorado,
October 8th, 9th and 10th. Executive session
at 10 o'clock a. m. Public sessions at 2.30
and 8 o'clock p.m. At evening sessions an
admittance fee of twenty five cents was
charged. A Conference of officers only was
held October 7th. Topics of discussion:
Civil Marriage, Mrs. E. D. Cheney; Women in
Affairs, Mrs. Helen S. Shedd; Women in
Science, Miss Laura Linton; Education vs.
Examinations, Miss Mary A. Ripley; What
Authors are Influencing most the Minds of
the Young in America, Mrs. Annie Nathan
Meyer; Hegel's Views of Art, Mrs. Ellen M.
Mitchell; Crime and its Punishment, Mrs. R.
N. Hazard; What we owe to Greek. Civiliza-
tion Mrs. Alice Harris; Statistical Paper, Rev.
A. B. Blackwell; Redemptive Power of Art,
Mrs. Rebecca D. Rickoff; Common Sense in
the Nursery, Dr. Julia Holmes Smith;
Symposium: Employment of Prisoners.


QUEEN ISABELLA.
			————
	If asking will secure it, women and their
work will have abundant representation at the
observance of the four hundredth anniversary
of the landing of Columbus.
	The women of Chicago met Aug. 26, and
appointed Mrs. Myra Bradwell and Mrs. M. M.
M. Wallace a committee to consult with the
national committee to ask for official recogni-
tion as an auxiliary. This action was approved,
and the Chicago Woman’s Department has
been incorporated.
	A little later Miss Susan B. Anthony made
a similar application to the mayor of New 
York. Now the Woman's Industrial Associa-
tion of Washington D. C., puts in its claim.
No doubt some recognition will be made of
women and their work. But whether it be
adequate and fitting or not, women have only
to "bide their time" to receive all that belongs
to them. It has taken four hundred years to
find out that Columbus was worthy of a
world's celebration. Women are only coming
above the horizon. When they are in full
sight, and secure in the possession of equal
human rights, it will be their own fault if
Queen Isabella, the Pilgrim and Puritan
mothers, the women of Revolutionary times
and the noble women all along the line do not
have their proper place wherever common
interests are represented. To this end let
women unite to secure their right to vote. The
power that resides in the ballot is the one
strong lever by which to secure equal rights.
To-day women are helpless for lack of the
ballot. We cannot command what we ought
to have, and must take what is offered.
							L. S.
	Woman's Journal'


Celia Logan is editor of Belford's Maga-
zine.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
	EMMELINE B. WELLS, - 	Editor.
	Published semimonthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah  Terms:
ne copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months, 50 cts. No
eduction made for clubs. City papers delivered by mail,
xtra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space, one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal discount
o regular advertisers.	
	EXPONENT office, No. 25 E., South Temple Street,second
gate east of Deseret News Office. Business hours from 10 a.m
to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
			PUBLISHER WOMAN’S EXPONENT,
							SALT LAKE CITY UTAH.
	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
Second Class Matter.
SALT LAKE CITY,	-	NOVEMBER 1, 1889.


[Column 1]
		﻿  EDITORIAL NOTICES.
	After the Woman’s Congress held in Denver
had adjourned some of the Eastern ladies paid a
visit to Salt Lake. They registered at the Cullen
where a reception was tendered them by the
ladies of the Woman’s Club of this City on Fri-
day evening Oct. 18, commencing at 8. p. m. The
parlors of the hotel were brilliantly lighted and the
rooms decorated with flowers for the occasion,
presumably by the Woman’s Club who had the
affair in charge. Mrs. Wickersham and Mrs.
Froiseith introduced those who called to the
distinguished visitors; they were the Rev.
Antoinette Brown Blackwell the first woman ever
ordained to the ministry in the United States,
Mrs. Henrietta L. T. Wolcott, Treasurer of the
A. A. W. and Miss Emily Howland an ardent
worker in reforms, also Mrs. Lawlor of the A. A.
W. A lecture was given by these ladies in the
Opera House Sunday evening, which was very
well attended though the weather was unfavor-
able.
	Mrs. Wolcott explained briefly and definitely the
origin, aim and work of the Association for the
Advancement of Women, which holds a Congress
annually in one of the large cities of the United
States.
	Miss Howland followed in a somewhat pathetic
speech upon the Temperance question, and Mrs.
Blackwell spoke for a short time on general
topics giving in brief the general advancement
made by women during the last forty years.
	On Monday the ladies called at this office and
we had an interesing time, Pres. Zina D. H.
Young being with us on the occasion, of course
the subjects were mostly of our faith, priciples
and institutions and both Mrs. Young and the
writer always take pleasure in explaining the
situation of the people before and since the en-
forcement of the Edmund’s law.
	On Tuesday evening Mrs. Blackwell spoke in
St. Mark’s schoolhouse, subject “The Nineteenth
Century.” We very much regretted not hearing
her, but had an appointment at Provo the same
evening. Mrs. Blackwell has an excellent voice
for public speaking, and a most admirable
presence, a logical way of presenting her subject,
and is very attractive in manner and appearance.

	On Tuesday October, 15, we had a pleasant call
at this office, from Theresa, Dowager Countess of
Shrewsbury, England, and the Countess of
Selkirk, Scotland. The ladies were accompanied
by their maids, who had been traveling with them
through the United States. They had some ques-
tions to ask concerning our faith and principles,
and manifested considerable interest in the con-
dition of women under the enforcement of the
Edmund’s law. They conversed freely with the
writer, giving their own views and opinions upon
[Column 2]
popular questions which are being agitated in
Great Britain at the present time, and were
decidedly in favor of suffrage for women property
holders, and especially those who had no man,
husband, father or brother to represent their in-
terests. We emphatically maintained it is better
to represent one’s self than to be dependent upon
another even if it be a man, to which sentiments
the Ladies assented. We accompanied them to
the Temple Block and went over the grounds and
public buildings, explaining and answering their
questions and giving them such information as the
time would permit.
	These ladies cultivated, refined and accom-
plished, accustomed to the society of the highest
aristocracy, were very much like other people in
sentiment and expression.
	They had read W. Hepworth Dixon’s books
“New America” and another work treating some-
what definitely upon Mormon subjects; they had
also read Lawrence Oliphant’s views of the
Latter-day Saints in Utah.
	The Dowager Countess seemed very proud of
her ten grandchilren and wished she could show
them to us. Both ladies are quite young looking
and well-preserved, and both are widows, and if
we might venture an opinion on the subject, some-
what strong-minded in view of the fact that they
are “doing America,” without a gentleman escort.
	In a letter received yesterday from the Countess
Selkirk she refers kindly to the EXPONENT and
asks for other copies; the Ladies were at that date
on the banks of the beautiful Hudson; they in-
formed me they intended visiting Washington D.
C. before they sailed for England.


HOME AFFAIRS.

	Pres. Zina D. H. Young attended the Stake
Conference of the Relief Society of Cache held at
Logan last week and returned home Monday
evening.
	Mrs. Lillie Freeze attended the Conference of
the Relief Society, Y. L. M. I. A. and P. A. of
Morgan Stake on the 25, 29, and 27, of October
ult.
	The Relief Society Conference of the Sanpete
Stake, will be held in Spring City, on Saturday
Dec. 14, meetings commencing at 10, a. m. and at
2 p. m. as usual. Mrs. Mary Ann Hyde President.
	On Wednesday October 23, a Woman Suffrage
Association was organized at Provo for Utah
County, Mrs. Mary J. Tanner Pres. Susa Young
Gates, Sec. In our next issue full particulars
will be given of the meeting, and also the able
address delivered by the Pres. Mrs. Tanner.
	Mrs. Elizabeth Howard attended the Emery
Stake Relief Society Conference and other meet-
ings in the County, leaving this City on the 17, of
October. A Woman Suffrage Association was
organized for Emery Co. during Mrs. Howard's
visit there of which full particulars have not yet
reached us. Joanna P Curtis is the Cor. Sec.,
notice will be given of the organization hereafter;
names of officers etc.


[Column 1]

﻿IN MEMORIAM.

"The loved and lost!" Why do we call them lost
Because we miss them from our onward road?
God's unseen angel o'er our pathway crossed
Looked on us all, and loving them the most
Straightway relieved them from life's weary load.

	The bright and beautiful month of October
when nature plumes herself most royally in scarlet,
purple, and golden, and the vines, gardens, groves
and hills are bedecked with the many colored
Autumn leaves, s ems scarcely a fitting time for
the angel of death clothed in sombre garments to

[Column 2]

make his appearance in a happy household. But
so it is, and he "has all seasons for his own." On
the 9th, of October ult. one of the saddest events
transpired at Devereux House in this City, the
sudden death, of Mrs. Emma Lettice Jennings
Carlisle, not yet the bride of a year's time. So
sudden and unexpected was the occurrence that
the young husband and the tender mother were
totally unprepared. Just about an hour or so pre-
vious to her death, Mrs. Carlisle had given birth
to a little daughter, and every hope was enter-
tained that she would rally and recuperate gradu-
ally. She had everything to live for, a loving and
devoted companion to whom she was fondly at-
tached, a babe just opening its eyes upon the new
world to be tenderly cared for with a mother's
love and maternal devotion, which Mrs. Carlisle
possessed naturally, also those attractive home
qualities that make family ties more endearing
and fasten deeper in the heart the human affec-
tions, that when rent asunder make terrible havoc
with the households so associated and linked to-
gether. Both in the home and in the sick room
her influence was a powerful one for good. She
was a natural nurse and because of her intense
love for such pursuits, had taken a regular course
in nursing that she might be prepared to do good
among her family and friends and do it systemati-
cally in the best and gentlest manner.
	Mrs. Carlisle though from her childhood accus-
tomed to every luxury wealth can bring was
never carried away with the frivolities of society,
but loved better to tread the path of duty and of
safety. She was of a religious nature full of faith
and integrity to the Gospel. She was devotedly
attached to her mother, sisters and brothers, who
will sadly miss her calm and serene presence in
the home circle, and her wise counsel in matters
of importance.
	The writer distinctly remembers her appearance
at the reception given in honor of her marriage as
also that of her sister Maye, for it had been a
double wedding, how her face lighted up with the
joy of a happy contentment, and how perfect
seemed the commencement of her married life.
But alas, for all human hopes and aspiration, she
was cut down like a flower in full bloom in the
midst of a beautiful garden, and we believe only to
be transplanted in a more congenial clime, where
those spiritual attributes of her nature apparent
here will shine forth with increased power and
splendor, and she will attain that perfection of
beauty in soul and character that surpasses all
earthly endowments. May the rich consolations
of the Holy Spirit soothe and comfort the mourn-
ing husband, mother and friends, and the rich
legacy she has left in her noble and wise example
ever be a light and a guide to them while sojourn-
ing here; and may the little one so early bereft of
a mother's care be to them a constant reminder of
the one departed and an influence and incentive to
follow on where she has gone.

"It bids us do the work that they laid down,
Take up the song where they broke off the strain;
So journeying till we reach the heavenly town,
Where are laid up our treasures and our crown,
And our lost loved ones will be found again."

	Emma Lettice Jennings was the daughter of Mr.
and Mrs. William Jennings, and was born in
Salt Lake City, Aug. 2, 1866, and was married to
Hon. J. E. Carlisle in the Logan Temple, January
3, 1889, and died Oct. 9, 1889, aged—23 years 2
months and 7 days.
	Mrs. Carlisle's funeral was held at Devereux
House and was numerously attended, Bishop F.
Kesler presiding. Singing by the Quartette
Messrs. Easton, Spencer, Whitney and Goddard.

"When the swallows homeward fly."

	Prayer was offered by Apostle Heber J. Grant
Singing,

"Spin Spin" &c.

	Consoling speeches were made by Bishop O. F.


Whitney, Apostle J. H. Smith, Pres. Geo. Q.
Cannon and Bishop Kesler. Singing, 
		"Not dead but sleepeth."
Benediction by Pres. Angus M. Cannon. 
A perfect deluge of flowers in every conceivable
variety of artistic shapes and forms adorned the
house and coffin. For Mrs. Carlisle there is no
need to mourn, yet all her friends will shed for her
and the sweet babe left behind, a sympathetic tear,
and may it be possible for all to say as they bow
beneath the rod, "Got knew the best."


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


LITERARY NOTE.
	The National Magazine for November will con-
tain among other articles “Comparative Philolo-
gy,” by Professor Schele de Vere, Ph.D., J. U. D;
of the University of Virginia; Political Science,’
by Professor Raymond Mayo Smith, A. M., of
Columbia College, and “Shakespeare,” by F. W.
Harkins, Ph.D., Chancellor of the new National
University of Chicago, whose instruction by mail
and University Extension System for non-resi-
dents now meeting with such favor, will also be
explained in this number.
	In the future numbers will appear a symposium
comprising articles by prominent scholars and
statesmen giving their opinions on leading ques-
tions, such as “Darwin’s Theory,” “The Chinese
Question,” “Socialism,” and “Should Immigra-
tion be Restricted?” Published the first of each
month, at 147 Throop Street, Chicago. Subscrip-
tion price, $1.00 a year. Sample copy 10 cts.


[Column 1]
﻿			U. W. S. A.

	A Convention of the U. W. S. A. was held in
the Salt Lake Assembly Hall, in this City Mon-
day Oct. 7, commencing at 2 p. m. Mrs. L. D-
Alder, Acting Pres., in the Chair. Mrs. Nellie R.
Webber, Vice Pres., and Mrs. Maria Y. Dougall,
Ch. Ex. Com., were by her side, also Mrs. Ann
Groesbeck and Phebe Y. Beattie of the Com-
mittee and Miss Rachel Edmunds Ass’t Sec.
Hon. John T. Caine, Hon. C. W. Penrose, Hon. W.
H. King and Prof. Talmage occupied seats on the
stand—also Mrs. Zina D. H. Young, Mrs. S. M.
Kimball, Mrs. E. B. Wells, Mrs. L. G. Richards,
and Mrs. M. A. Y. Greenhalgh, Pres. Millard Co
W. S. A. Mrs. Ellen Jakeman Pres. Sanpete Co.
W.S. A. and others. The Convention opened
with prayer by Dr. E. S. Barney. After reading
minutes etc., Prof. Talmage was the first
speaker, he alluded to the benefits derived from
thought being aroused and discussion begun upon
any subject; he thought the fact that woman is
still deprived of the franchise is a proof that bar-
barism still exists; he was not an enthusiast on
the subject; but believed that suffrage would be
given not as a mercy, but he thought reason and
revelation united to convince us that woman
is as much queen as man is king; thought it a
characteristic of manly nature that man arrogate
to himself honors and privileges; he did not think
man had a right to delay or intercept the privi-
leges that women are asking for. “Kamschatkans
beat their wives into obedience, the Zulu’s are
little better, the Roman’s in the time of the glory
of the Roman Empire were not much better, but
we in this day regard such scenes as evidences of
darkened minds; in this age may God assist to re-
move error, and grant His divine favor upon the
efforts being made to elevate woman.”
	Hon. C. W. Penrose believed in the rights of
women and children as well as the rights of men,
one is not in opposition to the other: a senator
had said to him “you might as well talk to me
of a howling beast, or whirling cyclone as to talk
to me of woman suffrage, and the man who helps
to confer suffrage upon woman commits a crime
next to murder,” some argue that women can’t
vote because they can’t go to  war and fight. I
[Column 2]
think the delay in granting women the right to vote
is due in a great measure to women themselves,
there are so many women who do not want the
responsibility and do not comprehend the ad-
vantage it might be to others who are asking for it.
One mistake often made is in confusing the terms
of suffrage and citizenship, and again one may be
entitled to vote and not be eligible to office, keep
these three things distinct and seek to become
conversant with these subjects and with the laws
of municipalities and counties, states, etc., injustice
prevails now, but it will not be long until women
will be enfranchised and righteousness will pre-
vail from shore to shore and from pole to pole.
	Mrs. Z. D. H. Young—said she was reminded of
an old saying that she heard when a little girl,
			"He who plants pears
			Plants for	his heirs."
Mothers and sisters are planting now for the
future; sewing good seed, evil is abroad in the
world, the traffic in liquor is one of the  great
causes of crime, would not mothers vote against
this crying evil? Yes! spoke of the immense amount
of money made for the government by the internal
revenue act upon liquor, and the degradation of
mothers and wives because of intemperance.
Made an eloquent plea for mothers having the right
to their own children.
	Hon. John T. Caine believed in the rights of
women; the taking of the franchise from the wo_
men of Utah was simply a political movement to
lessen the vote of the people’s party; agitation on
this question would in time accomplish the desired
result, agitation that begun in Mass., brought
about the Anti-Slavery movement; at present it
was impossible to do much towards suppressing
saloons except to make the license as high as pos-
sible, these liquor people don’t want women to
vote, it would keep the ballot box too pure, but
let us plant the trees and those who come after
us will eat the pears.
	Hon. Wm. H. King said he had read or heard
that the warrior who had vanquished a hundred
foes, trembled when before a woman—and he felt
the truth of this saying today in standing to ad-
dress the audience upon this subject. There had
never been any question in his mind as to the
civil and political rights of women, if mothers can
instil patriotism into the hearts of their children,
can rear statesmen, why should they not be en-
trusted with privileges equal to the sons they rear.
Women in all ages have been at the bottom of re-
forms, the United States, Europe, and England
especially has been highly favored with women of
renown. The speaker once had the privilege of
hearing Lord Randolph Churchill speak in the
house of Parliament when woman suffrage was
being discussed and he put it in this way “Why
don’t women wear trousers?” It is no reason a
all, it does not follow any more than a hundred
other differences. Enfranchisement for women is
sure to follow in the steps of enlightenment.
	An organ solo by Jos. J. Daynes was highly ap-
preciated.
	Mrs. L. G. Richards was the next speaker, she
looked with a degree of pride on the record made
by the women of Utah in the past when they en-
oyed the right of franchise, thought the experi-
ences of the present should stimulate us to inform
ourselves more fully that, we might vote intelli-
gently when the time should come which it cer-
tainly would before long.
	A beautiful song was charmingly rendered by
Miss Viola Pratt.
	Bishop Wallace of North Ogden made a power-
ful speech in favor of the rights of women in all
lands, thought it a strange and anomalous
position for women to be in,sueing to mankind for
the right of franchise when every one of these
great statesmen and kings, the greatest and the
highest, had as a child knelt at the feet of a wo-
man and were taught by her their first lessons.
[Column 3]
	Many good things were said and solid truths ad-
vanced and the Convention was altogether calcu-
lated to arouse thought; to publish the minutes in
full would be impossible in a paper, it would re-
quire to be in pamphlet form.
	After the speeches, Mrs. Alder called upon the
delegates and Mrs. M. A. Y. Greenhalgh gave a
concise report of the Millard Co., organiza-
tion, its past and present status, and the hopes she
entertained for the future development of the mem-
bers of the Association. Mrs. Greenhalgh also
related how forty years ago in Calcutta she had
spoken on this very question, and expressed he
indignation at the treatment American women re-
ceived in England at the time of the World’s Anti-
Slavery Convention.
	Mrs. Ellen Jakeman with her babe in her arms
made a clear and brief statement of facts concern-
ing what had been done in the Association in
Sanpete Co., which was most interesting.
	Mrs. Alder briefly reviewed the work accom-
plished by the W. S. A. at headquarters, after
which the Convention adjourned subject to call by
the Secretary. Letters were received from other
Counties beside those represented on the plat-
form.


A PURITAN VILLAGE.

A GLIMPSE OF TOPSFIELD—AN INTERESTING
	TOWN AS YET UNMODERNIZED.

	When the Puritans made their settlement at
Salem, the tribe of Agawam owned the land
bordering on the Atlantic coast between the
Naumkeag and the Merrimac rivers, and inland
as far as Andover. Masconomet, their chief, con-
veyed the present towns of Ipswich and Topsfield
to John Winthrop, son of Governor Winthrop,for
£20. Thus sacrificing his beautiful hunting-
grounds, which abounded in game, he became in
his later days dependent upon the colonists. He
was buried on Sagamore Hill in the present town
of Hamilton. The first occupancy of Topsfield
by European settlers dates back to 1635, but its
incorporation as a town came some years later
The beautiful broad meadows that border the
Agawam (now called Ipswich) river first attracted
the early settlers of Ipswich and Salem, and grants'
of land were given to John Endicott, Simon Brad-
street, Robert Paine and others, who formed a
settlement here, to which they gave the name of
New Meadows. The present name of Topsfield,
which might have been suggested by its hill, was
no doubt derived from Toppesfield, England, from
which place many immigrants came at an early
day and made their home here. Prominent among
these was a man named Smith, and there are now
extant in the old stone church at Toppesfield
England, some interesting memorials of his
family; among them one is particularly noticeable,
commemorating the virtues and Christian graces
of his mother. From this mother in Israel
through her line of descendants in this village
came Joseph Smith, the founder of the Mormon
sect, and in the village cemetery here is a monu-
ment to the Smith family, erected through the in-
strumentality of George A. Smith, a Mormon
elder, lately-deceased. The old town of Toppes-
field, England, is said to retain the manners and
customs of primitive times, and is far behind its
namesake in America in population and genera
intelligence.
	The old Bradstreet farm, probably the first one
laid out in the early township of New Meadows,
covers one of the eastern hills, its cultivated fields
sloping to the broad meadow at its base. This
farm was given by Govenor Bradstreet to his son
Simon, whose descendants, bearing the name of
Bradstreet, occupy an old fashioned homestead
built close to the original house, which was only
taken down a few years ago. While Ann Dudley
the poet wife of Govenor Simon Bradstreet, has


transmitted her genius to some of her descendants
(among whom are Oliver Wendell Holmes and
Richard H. Dana), the benevolent features and
amiable characteristics of her husband, the old
colonial governor, can be easily traced in some of
his descendants in this village. Anne Bradstreet
was a daughter of that rigid old Puritan, Governor
Thomas Dudley, and every generation since her
time in Topsfield has had a Dudley Bradstreet
among its number, even to the present occupant
of the farm we have mentioned. Very few
villages of New England have retained their old-
time simplicity as this one has done. None of
the hurry and bustle of its more enterprising
neighbors have come over these hills. One manu-
facturer only has gained a foothold, and even he
hesitates to destroy the quiet of the village by im-
porting foreign laborers, and only employs the
sons and daughters of his neighbors and friends,
No Queen Anne turretted villa dots hill or plain,
and no summer hotel invites the stranger to this
quiet retreat.
	A strong feature of Topsfield is the accessi-
bility of all things that make country life desirable
to a lover of nature. No long dusty roads or toil-
some climbing are necessary to put before one
the wildest views, the prettiest dells and the
greenest meadows bordered by grand old oak and
hickory trees. Foot-paths and well-worn
stiles, of which Burroughs laments there are so
few in this country, take you within the shade of
the pines up the hillside to an elevation where
can be seen Newburyport, the hills of Ipswich,the
waters of Pigeon Cove, the high bluffs of Beverly
Shore, and when the atmosphere is clear, Marble-
head and the harbor of Salem town. From this
hill we look down upon the village, with its two
church spires, shady streets, comfortable, farm-
like houses, and upon the Agawam, spanned by
bridges and shaded by overhanging trees and
shrubs. This romantic stream that bows and
bends all the way to the ocean, is like a little
brook during the summer months, but overflows
its banks in the spring and autumn, turning the
outlying meadows into a broad, smooth lake. In
the west are the Andover hills, and beyond
stretch other ranges, with Monadnoc and
Wachusett dimly outlined on the horizon, In the
centre of the village is a wide common, intersected
by paths shaded by elms and bordered by two
churches, the town hall and two old colonial
houses, built by the Emersons in the best style of
architecture of a hundred years ago, giving a
grand and gracious air to this inland town. An
ancient house still stands near the common, built
with an overhanging upper story for protection
from the Indians. There is no record of its age,
but it is supposed to have stood at least two hun-
dred and twenty years, and has few companions
left anywhere in New England. It was the home
of Rev. Joseph Capen, the first minister of Tops-
field, who came here from Dorchester in the
middle of the seventeenth century. Rev. John
Emerson succeeded Mr. Capen, and in his long
ministry of forty-six years, though often deprived
of his meagre salary, managed to amass fifty
thousand dollars, a large fortune for those days.
He was a brother of Rev. Joseph Emerson, from
whom came the Concord branch. The Rev.
Joseph was spiritually minded, never counting the
things of this world, and he ceased to hold
friendly and brotherly communion with John, who
he thought was too much engrossed in worldly
affairs. The colonial houses were built by de-
scendants of Parson John, and two years ago,
when one became the property of the Congrega-
tional church, to be used as a parsonage, lilac
trees over eighty years old, that had been the
pride and delight of a former generation, were cut
to the ground,they in some measure destroying the
ideality of this village. We are reminded of the
poet Longfellow, who never wished to leave his
home in Cambridge when the lilacs were in bloom.
[Column 2]
	This village, like Salem and Danvers, suffered
from the witchcraft delusion. Two women—Mary
Eastey and Sarah Wildes—were dragged from 
their homes and hung on Witch’s hill, while
another—Abigail Hobbs—was condemned to die,
but was finally pardoned. Mary Eastey and the
well-known Rebecca Nourse were sisters,daughters
of William Town of Topsfield, who settled here
as early as 1635. All these women had led ex-
emplary lives, were strong in the Christian faith,
with a native sweetness of disposition that
endeared them to their families and friends. They
became shining marks for this most cruel persecu-
tion, but their memory is still treasured, and their
eloquent appeals for justice and mercy have not
failed to find a place in the hearts of the genera-
tions that have followed them.
	The study of geology and botany is becoming
very popular throughout Essex county. Many of
the smaller towns and villages have organized
clubs through the influence of the famous Essex
Institute which has its head-quarters at Salem.
Some of the towns have exhibited fine collections
of wild flowers at the annual fairs of this county,
and Topsfield ought to send of its abundance, for
he flora of the village and its vicinity is rich. The
meadows, from early spring until midsummer, pre-
sent a succession of vivid colors from the multi-
tude and variety of wild flowers. Before the road-
side grass is green, and while the buds are yet
swelling on the trees, the cowslips or meadow but-
tercups, or marshmallows, as they are frequently
called, stretch up their vigorous yellow bloom out
of the watery hillocks, that ooze and sputter at the
lightest weight. The painted cups then follow,
whose petals shade from green to the brightest
red, forming a score or more of clustering cups,
that draw the water through their hollow stems
and drop it from the brim. Bryant sings in praise
of this flower, which is rarely found in New Eng-
land—
	“Scarlet tufts are glowing in the green, like lakes
		of fire!”
	The wanderers of the prairie know them well,
and call that flower “the painted cup.” Then
come the dark red trilium and the white buck
bean, the thickly strewn purplish red blossoms of
the pitchers, the “Jacks,” with their lords and
ladies, and the white azalea, rich in fragrance.
The last of the spring production is the arethusa,
with its variegated lip and bright pink petals, the
most fascinating, delicate and delusive of all the
water plants, for it hides itself in the most inac-
cessible places. The highways and fields are
covered with bloodroot, anemones, violets, brown
and blue, the dogtooth violet, nodding daintily on
its stem, blue hepatica, red columbine, the stately
slipper and the cardinal flower. In October, the
blue fringed gentians cover the meadows, and the
pure white gentian is often found by their side.
The woods contain fine specimens of ferns that
have attracted the attention of botanists. The deli-
cate brown fern,so often in demand for herbariums
is a native of these woods.
	The birds in Topsfield are of brilliant plumage,
and many varieties that have not visited their old
home for years, Having been driven away, it is
said, by those troublesome English sparrows, are
now returning in great numbers. Among them
the scarlet tanager and the gayly colored grosbeck
occasionally flash before us as we  pass through
the wood, while yellow birds, the little brown
thrush, bluebirds in variety, and hosts of golden
orioles, swinging in their nests, are seen daily be-
fore our doors. To appreciate the most beautiful
sounds of the country one should take an early
flight from the city. Come with the cowslips and
robins. In no other way can the infinite variety of
pleasures and surprises afforded by the lavishness
of nature be fully realized.
	Practically, life in Topsfield is one of general
prosperity.  "The poor ye have always with you”
scarcely applies to this village, for even the poor
[Column 3]
farm has less than six occupants. This farm is
pleasantly situated, and is one of the most produc-
tive in the town. They have an annex for the
“walking gentry,” commonly called tramps, who
lodge and are fed at the town’s expense. Coffee
was formerly furnished them with their bread, but
at one time so many availed themselves of this
generous provision that water was substituted.
The question of building a separate establishment
for these vagrants, at some place remote from the
village, is now under consideration. This will be
an additional grievance to them, as some have
already complained of the present short trip “over
the hills to the poorhouse.” The old academy,
which has been a landmark for many generations,
is quaint and interesting, situated on an eminence
in the heart of the village.
	The inhabitants of Topsfield follow in the foot-
steps of their ancestors, whose traditions and occu-
pations cling tenaciously to the soil. The natural
surroundings of the village seem to be a defence
against intrusion; and we should bless the ever-
lasting hills that preserve to us a peaceful old-
time village, the fulfillment of the Puritan’s dream.
—“V. R.,” in Boston Transcript.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE.

	The evening session of the Relief Society
was not so well attended as the morning had
been though there were more brethren present.
Mrs. Zina D. H. Young presided, and the
meeting opened with the hymn.
		"O' my Father thou that dwellest," etc.
	Prayer by Mrs. Lucy B. Young.  singing
		"We thank thee O God for a prophet."
	President Young called for those Presidents
of Stakes who had not reported in the morn-
ing commencing with Mrs. Lizzie McDonald
who had formerly presided over the Relief
Society of Maricopa Stake, and was also
familiar with the organized Society in Mexico.
The speaker gave an excellent report of the
labors of the sisters in Maricopa Stake and
spoke especially of the Papago ward; gave an
interesting account of the way in which the
Indian women were being trained in house
keeping and other pursuits as also dress etc.
	Sister harmon teaches them music and to sing
by note and Sister McDonald felt it inspiring
to hear them sing.  Sister McDonald spent last
winter in Mexico enjoyed it very much said
some of the best people had gone there, and
had their boys around them, they have suffered
many privations in times past, and she sympa-
thized with them in many respects. Her de-
sire was to do good everywhere that her lot
might be cast, no matter where it might be.
She had never felt better in her life than now.
	Dr Pratt then read the totals of the general
report of the Relief Society which stated there
were now enrolled 16,747 members! and seven
stakes not reported, viz.  Davis, Emery, Morgan,
Panguitch, Parowan, San Luis and Wasatch,
	Pres.  Willmirth East gave a good report of
St. Joseph Stake and said Pres. C. Layton al-
ways attended the Sisters Conferences, they
were a good people down there and trying to
live their religion serve God and keep his com-
mandments.  Spoke in glowing terms of her
love of liberty and of the Constitution of
our glorious country, rejoiced in the freedom
its principles guaranteed, her sentiments were
in full accord with the emphatic declaration
of Patrick Henry when he exclaimed, "Give
me liberty or give me death."  Sister East
apologized for Pres.  Emma Brown's absence
from the Conference said she had been travel-
ing with her recently through Wasatch Stake,
and had enjoyed it very much, the Society
throughout the Stake was in a prosperous con-
dition.
	Counselor Sasah P. Crosby of Panguitch Stake,


spoke of the disadvantages they labored under
in the matter of distances, their Stake reached
65 miles East 55 to the North East and 50
North so that it was difficult to reach the
settlements often, there were eleven branches of
the Relief Society scattered over the county
some of them are very small. In these
branches some of the families are so far apart
they can only hold their meetings a part of
the year.
	Pres. M. Isabella Horne, of Salt Lake Stake,
regretted there were not more present, thought
that the instructions that had been given dur-
ing the late Conference should stimulate us
to go on in the cause of the Lord; she had
been visiting around the county and also in
the city wards trying to encourage to good
works. “Our Father in heaven will not
withhold any good thing from his children
who are doing good service in his kingdom.”
Advised the holding of annual meetings
thought it helped to keep up the interest, and
felt anxious to see an advancement in the
growth and progress of these organizations.
	Pres. Elizabeth Yates of Millard Stake.
Our settlements are very scattered, we try to
meet with them all once a year, sometimes
feel very weak and unable to perform the
duties of the position I am called to fill. Pres.
Hinckley meets with us sometimes and asks
special questions etc. We teach our children
the Word of Wisdom and try to train them in
the path of duty. We are not often visited.
Sister Horne made us a visit some years ago
and the sisters refer to it often; the brethren
sustain us in our organization and are glad to
attend our meetings; rejoiced in the good re-
sults of the Primary Association.
	Sister Kathinka Anderson reported Emery
Stake as in good working order and the sisters
full of faith and diligent in their labors. They
also labored under many disadvantages, were a
long way from the centre Stake of Zion and
had not had much teaching from experienced
sisters.
	Pres. Young made some telling remarks and
inquired concerning the Stakes not yet re-
ported, blessed the sisters especially those who
had come long distances to attend the meet-
ings, hoped the good spirit of the Conferences
would be carried to their homes, and that the
saints would increase and prosper in the land,
said many good things, and blest all the
assembly in the name of Jesus.
	Sister Horne added a few remarks and
spoke of the Convention in the afternoon.
	Sister S. M. Kimball thought all were grow-
ing weary, but she was deeply interested in
the proceedings of this day, she had been
looking back over the 47 years since the first
organization when there were about nineteen
members now there were 16,747, and there
were seven stakes of Zion not reported also all
beyond the sea in other lands. “This is no
small thing. We should increase in knowledge
and good works. We are as a light set upon
a hill, jealousy, prejudice, envy should not
find place in our hearts; one of the prime ob-
jects of this organization is self culture; a
committee has been appointed to regulate our
Stake Conferences, hope this will be brought
to pass. Woman’s work is progressing, was
delighted to see the baby in the speaker’s arms
to-day; it proved her equal to the emergency.
	Sister E. B Wells spoke upon the great
good to be accomplished by means of woman’s
aid in various directions, and alluded to the
results achieved by woman’s persistent agita-
tion in the New England States and else-
where of the injustice of the law in regard to
married women’s rights. Referred to the new
constitutions for the admission of States and
how they stood on the question of equal
suffrage etc, urged women to read and inform
themselves for their own sake and the good of
community. Thought we had need of charity
			[Column Two]
that we might be more helpful to each other
and be as charitable to others as we would
wish them to be to us.
	Dr. Barney read a written article.” The
beautiful we admire, and we can glean valua-
ble lessons from God’s disposition, in distribu-
ting, arranging and organizing the elements,
and forming mankind with the variety of dis-
positions and attributes that are made manifest
in the very beginning of his or her being.
	The placid disposition is admired because
of its evenness and possessing the property to
yield.
	The positive or active nature is admired
because it can remove difficulties and sur-
mount obstacles.
	The Skeptic is always in doubt, and restless,
not fixed in his purpose; in him hope and
faith are deficient.
	The artist is absorbed, and lost in his own
environment, and is only companionable to
others as they can grasp with him and have
lively imaginations of the ideality that exists
in his mind.
	Thus we may view the great panorama of
variety, as it passes before our eyes in imagin-
ation, both the animate and inanimate, animal,
and vegetable, and wonder as we admire and
ask ourselves the question. What is all this?
—God.
	The irritable husband is modified, as time
passes on by the worn, tired, passive wife, if
not in life, in death he learns her worth.
	The overbearing selfish child relents, when
it sees its injured sister turn from his tan-
talizing power and presence.
	Thus lesson after lesson is learned, and the
great school of experience is widened out, al-
most without limitation.
	We have the bitter and the sweet, also the
acid and an-tacid, they neutralize each other,
and in new formed compounds the original
nature of the element is lost. For example
the housewife readily understands that the oil
and alcohol, are antagonistical to each other,
and thus they neutralize each other, and form
a fresh compound unlike the first, the nature is
changed and will be no more the same unless
broken up from its combination and returns
to its original elements. Thus we may com
pare the life of a Latter-day Saint, the indi-
vidual is changed in his views and dispositi-
ons, and likings, by his surroundings,
associations, and heavenly influences, and you
learn his life’s history, you can discern that
if he has hugged closely to the laws of the
Divine Teacher, you will find pencil traces of
the master artist, if not, his history is more
rudely completed, and the final compound or
result is, an imperfect one and not so elegant.
	We read in Genesis 1-26. “God said let
us make man in our image after our likeness,
27 verse says, so God created man in his own
image.” God was, as we are, and we will be,
as he is, as we advance to that degree of
excellence and knowledge.
	The most of humanity are endowed with a
love for the beautiful, yet there are individuals,
that cannot discern green from blue, or a dif-
ference between colors, they are called color
blind, we might say they, were deficient in
their organization.
	Another is not a musician, he may have
time, but no tune, or he may have neither
time nor tune, who is to blame? who is the
originator of all this? who set the rugged cliff
behind the blushing flower? who caused the
weeping  willow to grow beside you cataract?
shall we faint because a truth exists, no! we
will in our delineation endeavor to portray
upon life’s canvas as it were with the painter’s
brush, forms light and shade with color, and
tint, until our imaginations and invention
have reached the reality.
	Did not Joseph in his life’s history and
character, imitate the life of Jesus? was not
			[Column Three]
his a life of virtue, and his a martyr’s death?
we may learn a lesson from him.
	Our entire being should be endued with
gospel graces. If our first thoughts in the
morning are to do the will of our Father, and
our last feelings at night are to do our
Father’s will, our rest will be sweet and our
final sleep will be heavenly.
	There is a growth in Zion, the knowledge
that has been obtained by sad experience in
some respects has made the boy more manly;
and the girl more womanly; and the people
more Godlike. The mason’s hands have not
been staid, but our temple is towering heaven-
ward.
	Pres. Young made some closing remarks,
felt we had been blessed in meeting under
such favorable circumstances in such a beautiful
place, spoke of her love for all the sisters and
felt grateful for this opportunity of coming
together and hearing from the several Stake
organizations, trusted much good might result
from the assembling of ourselves together in
this capacity; warned the sisters not to speak,
against each other, said our principles are
perfect in life or in death, let us abide by
them, thanked all and blessed them in the
name of Jesus. Amen. The congregation
arose and sung Doxology. Conference ad-
journed for six months, prayer by Elder C. J.
Thomas.
		MARICOPA STAKE.
	Minutes of the Quarterly Conference held at
Mesa City, Sept. 19, 1889. Opened by the
usual exercises. Upon the stand were the R.
S. Stake officers and others; and also Pres. C.
I. Robson, Coun. H. C. Rogers, C. R. Hakes,
and Bishop Pomeroy. Sister M. A. Hakes
rejoiced at again meeting the saints, had been
away on a visit to the Snowflake Stake had a
very pleasant time, spoke highly of the hospi-
tality and general good feeling of the people
there. Reported the R. S. Society of the Mesa
Ward as doing well and in good working order.
Spoke upon the storing of grain.
	Sister Lizzie Macdonald gave a good report
of the Lehi Ward, thought their meetings were
improving all the time, said the people of the
world had rejected the prophets, but if an
astronomer made a prediction the whole world 
were looking for the result; spoke also of the
storing of grain.
	Sister Ann Kleinman reported the Alma
Ward showing that a portion of the sisters
were alive to their duties, encouraged mothers
to be more zealous.
	Sister Susan Savage spoke encouragingly of
the Papago Ward said the native sisters were
anxious to learn from their white sisters the
domestic duties of wives and mothers.
	Sister Esther Openshaw represented the
Nephi Ward, said the sisters were trying to do
their duties in the Society and to keep the
commandments of God.
	Coun. C. R. Hakes and H. C. Rogers, Bishop
Pomeroy and Pres. C. I. Robson encouraged
the sisters and gave some good advice. A
general good feeling prevailed. Adjourned for
three months.
			F. E. Robson, Stake Sec. R. S.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


THE LOST LENORE.

	The cottage in which Edgar Poe wrote "The
Raven" has been torn down to make room for
more modern buildings:  but before it was
demolished, even for years, since the death of
Poe, relic hunters have visited the place carry-
ing away anything portable; shingles, wall-
paper, fire-place and window-lattice:  so that
really not much remained of the original
home.  Two trees stand on the high ledge of
rock which overlooks the beautiful Hudson
and from these, visitors carry away many a


sprig of leaves, as a memento of the spot,
where lived the Poet, who wrote the sad, sad
refrain, "Ah, nevermore."  The new home
will  bear no trace of the simple, old fashioned
cottage, except that these two trees will wave
their branches over its roof saying to those
who listen, "only this, and nothing more."  It
was in 1843 and 1844 that Edgar A. Poe and
his young wife lived here in the family of
Mr. Brennan, whose eldest child, (now Mrs.
General O'Beirne) remembers much of them,
as she was often with Poe while he was writing.
She recollects the wooden shelf nailed just
above the door of the room, on which stood a
small bust of Minerva; that there were no
purple curtains with "silken, sad, uncertain
rustle," and no tufted floor:  but she distinctly
remembers that the poem, Lost Lenore, was
read aloud to the family from manuscript.
How many since then have read, and reread,
until the lines are familiar, household words
the weird, sad story of The Lost Lenore!


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


DR. PAINTER.

	Dr. Hetty Kersey Painter, one of the faith-
ful suffragists of Lincoln, Neb., has recently
died.  The Woman's Tribune says of her.
"She was the most interesting historical person-
age among the women of Nebraska.  Her
death is a personal bereavement to all who 
knew her."
	"Mrs. P. was descended from staunch
Quaker families of West Chester, Pa., and was
one of the first women to graduate from the 
Woman's Medical College of Pennsylvania.
At the breaking out of the Civil War she
offered herself for her country, and was on
duty as nurse and surgeon during almost the
entire conflict, securing testimonials of the
esteem of Gen. Grant and Sherman, and of
the devotion of the corps of which she was a
member, During her long residence in
Lincoln, her Sanitarium, where she used es-
pecially hygienic means, has been a blessing to
many, while all who were associated with her
learned to love her and to feel confidence in
her gentle, tender skill.
	"As the charter president of the Lincoln
W. R. C., she bore the interest of the boys
who had followed the flag near to her heart.
She was prominent in the W. C. T. U., and
has been an active member and officer of the
Nebraska Woman Suffrage Association since
its organization.
	"The funeral services was mostly rendered by
women.  Mrs. Ada M. Bittenbender repre-
sented the Woman Suffrage Association, and
Mrs. King, of the W. C. T. U., spoke in
loving commendation of her work.  The rites
at the grave were conducted by the Woman's
Relief Corps."


NOTES AND NEWS.
	Athens, Greece, has a Woman's journal.

	Mrs. Amelia Rives Chandler is writing a 
book about the children employed in mills.
	
	The net receips of the historical pageant at
Hartford, Ct., in honor of Mrs. Stowe,
amounted to $1,036.

	There are twenty-four Kindergartens, with
forty-six teachers, and attended by fifteen
hundred children in Boston, Mass. 

	Of the twenty-one young women now at the 
Brussels University, 10 study pharmacy, 7
physical science, 3 general medicine, and one
philosophy.
	
	The young ladies of the Wisconsin Uni-
versity are studying carpentry, and gaining 
proficiency in the mechanical department as

[Column 2]
rapidly as in the more intellectual studies in
which they are engaged.

	Mrs. Emily Crawford is writing “A Story of 
the French Revolution." As her husband's 
assistant during his lifetime, and his successor
since his death, Mrs. Crawford has been the
Paris correspondent of the London Daily News
for a quarter of a century.

	The October Century contains a very in-
teresting posthumous article by Maria Mitchell,
entitled "Reminiscences of the Herschels," with
a portrait of Miss Mitchell, and a picture of
her last observatory, at Lynn, Mass.
	
	Miss Ruth Wells of Ft. Wayne, Ind., who
died there Oct. 2, aged eighty, left her resi-
dence, worth $40,000, to the city, on condition
that the asylum for the blind shall be erected 
and maintained. Her mother was blind for
years.
	
	Mrs. Nora Buck, wife of the the engineer of
a passenger steamer which plies on Great Egg
Harbor Bay between Long Port and Somers
Point, N. J., presides over the engine-room
and is skilled in the management of the
machinery. Mrs. Buck is a granddaughter of
Commodore Lavalette and the daughter of the
founder of Lavelette City, N. J. She is as
 skillful in managing a sailboat as in running a 
steamer. She is only 19 years old and ex-
tremely handsome. Her husband says she is
the best assistant he could have in running his 
boat.

	Miss Caroline Whiting, seventy-one years
of age, has been a teacher in New York City
for fifty-three years. Says Miss Frances
Willard in the Union Signal: For fifty years
she has not spent a day in bed: has taught al-
ways in the same school (No 14), and worn out
two school buildings; has been forty years
principal and has twenty teachers under her
care, and has had not fewer than twelve
thousand pupils. Miss Whiting has had her
home for fifty years with Mrs Sabin and the
latter’s mother, both of whom were her pupils.
This is a pretty fair record for one "superfluous
woman."
	
	A very old lady has just died in London—
the Dowager Duchess of Beaufort— who,
years ago, was the unwitting cause of a piece
of far-reaching legislation. She  was the
second wife of the old Duke, whose childless first
wife had been her sister. When her husband
died, the question was raised whether her son
could succeed to the title, inasmuch as the
ancient ecclesiastical law then prevailing, while
not making such marriages void, provided for 
their being set aside by spiritual courts upon
appeal. After some trouble, the other heirs
acceded to the succession of the present
Duke, but, in order that such a dispute should
not arise again, an act was immediately passed
making marriage with a deceased wife's sister
illegal.


OBITUARY.

	Another good woman has gone to her rest.  Sister
Eliza Foulds wife of William J. Parkin died at her residence
in South Bountiful June 11th 1889.  She was born Decem-
ber 7th 1839 and emigrated from the Nottingham Con-
ference 1863.  She was the only one of her father's house
that embraced the Gospel. She was the mother of ten
children, nine of whom are left to mourn her loss.  She
was a good mother, a loving wife, and a faithful Latter-
day Saint.  Embraced all the principles of the everlasting
Gospel which have been revealed by Joseph Smith the
Prophet; and was a faithful teacher in the South Bounti-
ful Relief Society.  She died as she had lived, a faithful
Latter-day Saint.
				Resolutions of Respect.
	Whereas our Heavenly Father has seen fit to call from
our midst, our loved and respected Sister Eliza F. Parkin.
	Whereas we are called to mourn a dear Sister and


colaborer in the Relief Society, one who has been a faith-
ful member and at all times willing to perform all the duties
required of her.
	Resolved that we the members of the Relief Society of
South Bountiful realize the loss of a faithful member in the
death of our Sister.
	Resolved that we extend our sympathy and condolence
to the bereaved family and friends.
	Resolved that a copy of these resolutions be presented to
the family, the Woman's Exponent, and also placed on the
record.
					PHEBE ATKINSON, President.
					MARY ANN PAGE, Secretary.
South Bountiful, Utah.


[graphic]
UNION PACIFIC
THE OVERLAND ROUTE
[text]
Tickets
ON SALE 
TO ALL
﻿PRINCIPAL POINTS
EAST, WEST,
NORTH and SOUTH
AT
UNION TICKET OFFICE,
Main Street, Salt Lake City. 
C. E. INGALLS,  J. V. PARKER,
City Pass. Agt.	Div. Pass. Agt.

R.K. THOMAS
EAGLE EMPORIUM
SALT LAKE CITY.
The Leading Retail
Cash House.
R.K. THOMAS

Special to the Ladies.
AT TEASDEL’S
Will be found the latest styles and productions
in	
LACES, RUCHES, EMBRODERIES,
FANS, GLOVES, PARASOLS, 
RIBBONS, COLLARS, TIES
And an elegant assortment of
DRY GOODS.
	Special department for Ladies’ Misses’ and In-
fant’s Shoes.
		112, 114, 116, 118 East Temple Street

	DAVID JAMES & CO. 
TINNERS, GAS, WATER & STEAM FITTERS
	Agent for RUMSEY'S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from
the country promptly responded to. 
	Address. DAVID JAMES. Box 306. SALT LAKE CITY.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
		The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.
