VOL. 18			SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, NOVEMBER 15, 1889.			No. 12.


CONTENTS.

	Beauty Vs. Goodness.—X. Sabbath Day.—M.
E. Teasdale. Hephzibah.—A Story.  Foreign
Correspondence.—L. C. Lee.  Notes and News.
	EDITORIAL.—The People's Party.  Editorial
Thoughts.  Editorial Notes.  A Generous Gift.
In Memoriam.  Reasons Why.—Phebe C. Young.
Prayer.—Dr. E. S. Barney.
	R. S. Reports.  Women as Reformers.—Equal
Rights.  A Palace of Nineveh.—Ex.
	POETRY.—Thoughts of Childhood Hours.—L.
M. H. Hallowe'en.—George Cooper.  New
Fashioned Singin'.—Henry B. Smith.  Obituaries.


[For the EXPONENT.]
	THOUGHTS OF CHILDHOOD HOURS.

		Thoughts of my childhood hours,
			Revel awhile for me,
		And pluck from fancy's bowers,
			Fair leaves from life’s young tree
		Sweet buds of youth and beauty,
			Growing uncheck’d and free, 
		In loving truth and duty
			Oh, bring them back to me !

		Innocence, purest flower,
			Blooming on childhood's tree,
		Revive in fancy’s bower,
			And nourish it for me.
		Bring forth each fairy color,
			As erst in morn’s young day,
		Bud and bloom unsullied,
			As in life's early May.

		Bright, lovely, vernal garland;
			O bloom for me once more,
		In fancy's fairy garden,
			On youth's bright sunny shore—
		Let songs of artless gladness,
			Now wake an echo’d lay,
		In my tried soul of sadness,
			Cold waves of sorrow stay.

		Thoughts of my childhood hours
			Priceless thou art to me,
		Revelling in the wild-wood,
			Untramell'd pure and free.
		Could aught on earth be given,
			To soothe awhile my pain,
		'Twere thoughts of early morning,
			When life was free from stain.

		Ere poison’d shafts of malice,
			Or arrow barb’d with scorn,
		Had enter’d in life's chalice,
			To leave its rankling thorn,
		Then come, and o’er this bosom,
			Thy calm influence pour,
		And the world shall never know
			My dream of love is o'er.
									L. M. H.


BEAUTY VS. GOODNESS.

	Beauty, one of the noblest gifts of Almighty
God to man, is perhaps, the most universally
abused by its possessor.  Were it properly
used, it would be a passport into the best
society.  And when backed by true principles,
and gentle manners, what obstacle is there, in
the social line, too great for its possessor to
surmount?


Making a favorable impression at first sight,
and being enabled to deepen that impression
at each subsequent interview by the impression
of noble and unselfish thought, is the highest
ideal of a perfect human being within my
imagination.  But withdraw from behind these
beautiful features, the nobleness of mind, and
we have remaining, a conceited, ungrateful,
and (as a rule) an ignorant person, who thinks
that beauty alone, is worthy of praise! If those
same noble traits of character, and divine in
spirations were given to one less beautiful in 
outward appearance, it would be but a short
time before his plain features would cease to be
very homely, and he would be loved and wel
comed for true worth—his shy, awkward man-
ner, would become less noticable, in the con-
templation of his lofty sentiments.  And as the
face is the index to the soul, expressing there,
our general thoughts, his would in time bear
testimony to the worth within, though his nose
still remained "too large," his eyes "too small,"
and the skin "freckled."
	One of our authors says, "It is but a single
step from the thought to the deed."  Accord-
ingly if wicked thoughts are countenanced,
wicked deeds will be perpetrated, then not only
disproportioned features, but disproportioned
actions also, will mar our so much to be desired
beauty.
									X.


THE SABBATH DAY.

	"Remember the Sabbth day to keep it holy.
Six days shalt thou labor and do all thy work,
but the seventh day is the Sabbath of the Lord
thy God, in it thou shalt not do any work, thou
nor thy son nor thy daughter nor thy man
servent, nor thy maid servant, nor thy cattle
nor the stranger that is within thy gates."
This commandment is in force upon us, today,
and should be as strictly observed by us as it
was by the children of former day Isreal. The
Lord has never repealed that commandment
but has added to it in this day, and has enjoined
it upon us, through His servant Joseph Smith,
and it is recorded in the Doctrine and 
Covenants, see Sec. 29 verse 9, we are told
there to go to the house of prayer and offer up
our devotions to the most High. “For verily
this is a day appointed unto you to rest from
your labors, and on this day thou shalt do
none other thing only let thy food be preyared
with singleness of heart.” The Lord does not
say that we can keep part of the Sabbath Holy
and then we can do as we please the other part,
but He emphatically says no work shall be done
“only to prepare our food with singleness of
heart.  Many of our young people think be-
cause they attend Sunday School regularly 
they are justified in not attending the after-
noon meeting, but are at liberty to enjoy them-
selves, and have a good time, and they think
it no harm to go riding after meeting; but it is
plain to be understood that our Heavenly
Father does not look at it in that light, or He
would not have said that the cattle were not to
work.  And He did not say or intimate that
we could keep Holy only a part of the day.
	Sunday lasts from 12 o’clock Saturday night
until 12 o’clock Sunday night, as we all know
if we would think.  But it seems as though 
some of us thought Sunday only lasted ’til
noon, or the most until four o’clock. We are
not justified in working or in seeking pleasure

[Column two]
on that day, only as we are obliged to do, and
we are not obliged to go to work and cook a
feast on Sunday, but should as much as pos-
sible prepare our food the day before, and let
our bodies rest, and we can rest as well in
meeting listening to the cousels of the servants
of the Lord and partaking of the Sacrament,
as we can lounging around home depriving our-
selves of that spiritual food we all need in order
to remain bright and keep our minds and
spirits in a healthy condition.
	You say well don't we have the Sacrament
in Sabbath school and is not that sufficient?
	Yes, we have the Sacrament in Sabbath
School, and by partaking we covenant or
promise "God our Eternal Father that we will
always remember Him and keep His com-
mandments," and then we immediately break
one of His commandments by breaking the
Sabbath day.
	Perhaps we never thought of it in this light,
but that is what we do when we go out riding
or any thing else that is not right, even though
we have been to Sunday School.  Now girls
listen attentively the next time when the bread 
and water are being blessed, to the words that
are used, and then take it conscientiously with
an understanding of the great responsibility
you take upon yourselves, and I believe you
will soon be able to see and comprehend in its
completeness the right course to take to be
consistent Latter-day Saints.
					M. E. TEASDALE.


HEPHZIBAH.
				XI.

	And many listen’d, and a few obeyed,
		The precious message which the Elders brought;  
	And willing sacrifice these converts made.
		Counting their worldly wealth, and gain as naught.

	The history of the introduction of the Gospel
as taught by the Latter-day Saints, into the
village of B. in the Old Bay state, is similar in
many respects to that of other small towns in
New England, and elsewhere. Evil reports be-
gan to be circulated immediately after the
Elders had succeeded in making a few converts,
concerning the Prophet Joseph Smith and his
followers; and when argument failed to dis-
suade those who had been converted, or who
were favorably disposed towards the doctrines
taught, these false rumors were repeated and
brought to bear in trying to convince those
who were believing, that the people called
“Mormons,” were low, ignorant and deluded;
without any of the refinement of modern civili-
zation; and every story that imagination could
conjure up, was carried from house to house
and from town to town, to destroy the in-
fluence of the Elders in proclaiming the truth
as revealed from heaven.
	But the time was ripe for the dissemination
of the knowledge of the Gospel, the good seed
was being sown, and according to the parable
of the Savior in the New Testament, some fell
upon good ground and some did not, etc.—The
Latter-day work was spreading and many were
converted thereto. The news that the Elders
had been preaching in Boston, and Salem, and
that many had not only been baptized in those
cities but had actually gathered with the
“Mormons” to Nauvoo, seemed to add strength
and give courage to the converts in these
smaller towns; for the ministers, Doctors and


Judges etc., had said, that only in the places
away from the centres of wealth and culture
could such foolish doctrines flourish and find
followers; or such uncouth and unlearned men,
be able to obtain an audience. But here were
the facts published in the papers, that in
cultured Boston, sermons were preached, dis-
 cussions held, and a branch of the Church built
up, and families had gone West to the Latter-
day Zion. The particular village, and adjacent
ones with which the story we are relating is
directly connected, were about sixty and sixty-
five miles from Boston, and Boston ideas were
a sort of understood authority on all great
questions.
	The preaching of the Everlasting Gospel as
it was called by the new converts, was success-
fully promulgated by the local Elders, and
among these were the two young men fresh
from college. They used such excellent
language, and were so earnest and eloquent in
speaking and charming in manner, that many
young people were attracted to the meetings
and became numbered among the little band of
Saints.
	Among this number was one of the young
girls who had attended the high school at M.
and was also one of the "Club" of seven. She
was four years older than Hepsie and quite
capable of appreciating the truths the Elders
taught. She too had been brought up in the
Congregational Church but like Hepsie had
never been convinced that a change of heart
was necessary; to her the simple methods of
faith, repentance and baptism etc., were much
more real; and she complied with these condi-
tions and gave up the hopes she had enter-
tained of distinguishing herself in the world of
letters, for she fully realized the sacrifice she
was making. But there was one sentiment she
had cherished that was not easily eradicated.
She was in love, the young man to whom she
was engaged, was studying for a profession, she
was proud of his attainments, and she hoped
to convince him of the truth she had received,
and that eventually, if not immediately, he might
go with her to the Far West, and that her
dream of happiness which had been so fondly
cherished might be realized. It had been a
genuine love-affair; letters had also been inter-
changed for they dwelt in different places and
the engagement had been announced to friends
and kindred.
	Like many older and wiser than this young
girl, she had fancied in her enthusiasm that her
affiance would see as she did when he heard the
sound of the true Gospel. But alas! she was
doomed to disappointment. She sent for him
to come to the village for he lived miles away
in another town, and he attended several meet-
ing, but he could not see things as Miss R—
did, or was too proud to give up his ambition
or the place he hoped to win among men of
rank. This was a sad blow to the young girl,
and even her mother and grandmother felt she
had been too ready to make a sacrifice which
was likely to involve so much.
	Yet this young girl with every prospect of a
happy marriage, and her heart overflowing
with love for the object of her affections, was
still true to her integrity in the midst of this
severe trial, and bore up bravely; very few
ever knew what it cost her to put aside Love's
fond dream, and take up the cross, for she al-
ready knew that henceforth she must stand
firm and steadfast, and alone, for she felt then
that none other could ever be to her a com-
panion for life, so little we see of the future,
when our hearts are pained with sorrow, when
our "gold is being tried in the furnace."
	Miss Reynolds was Miss Fay's cousin, the
girl who had looked with disdain almost upon
Hepsie when she asserted herself so on the sub-
ject of love. She had a great deal to say to
her cousin about the matter when she saw her
after the engagement was broken off, and this
[column 2]
fact made it harder still for Miss R. to endure
the final separation.
	"How blind you must be to your own in-
terest and future welfare," said Miss Fay the
first time she met her after hearing the news,
"to discard a lover like Henry—and unite
yourself with a people so unpopular as the
Mormons! I am utterly astonished, why when
Aunt Rachel told me you had been baptized, I
sat down and cried like a child, we were such
friends you know,as well as being first cousins;
and even your mother doesn't approve of it,
nor your grandma either, and as for my mother,
your own Aunt too, she is horrified."
	All this in one breath, as it were before Miss
R. could possibly reply but she summoned cour-
age to say as soon as her cousin stopped speak-
ing.
	"You know very well that I did not break
the engagement, moreover that I love Henry as
truly as you love Ralph and expected to be his
wife some day; but he would not countenance
my association with Mormons even, and when
he knew I had joined the Church of Latter-day
Saints, he was furious, and although I entreated
him to listen to my explanations on the sub-
ject, he would not, and so we have parted in
anger after all our vows of eternal constancy
to each other; I never expect to see him again,"
mournfully replied Miss Reynolds.
	Then it will be your own fault, for he will be
willing to make up, its only a love quarrel, if
you'll renounce your foolish notions about this
new religion, and be sensible I'll manage
Henry with Ralph's help;" said Miss Fay.
	"I don't want you to do any thing of the
sort, if he could be so cruel as he has proved
himself, now, what might not happen during
a long life-time, I congratulate myself that we
were not already married, the struggle then
would have been a much greater one, but one
thing I must have back again from Henry
and that is my letters, and the notes I have
written him long ago you know, they must not
fall into any one else's hands," said Miss R.
	"Do you wish me to ask for them, or shall
Ralph tell him to return them?" said her cousin
inquiringly.
	"I think I will wait awhile," said Miss R.
"he may send them to me, he has gone home
now to A. and he will talk everything over
with his sister who was aware of our engage-
ment, and she never liked it very well, I fancy.
Hepsie Hathaway was a great favorite of hers,
and she would have been very proud of Hepsie;
I have no doubt she could manage this affair
of mine, getting my letters back you know,
she was always diplomatic, liked to manage
other girls' love affairs, and never had any of
her own, she's far too young yet to be seriously
in love—but we shall see in time," said Miss
R.
	"By the bye cousin Lucy, that reminds me of
having been told that Mrs. Hathaway had been
baptized by a Mormon Elder, is that true?
Hepsie is still away at school isn't she?" said
Miss Fay.
	"Yes, she is, and making rapid progress in
her studies, but her mother has sent for her to
come home to hear the Mormon Elders preach,
who are expected here from Boston now in a
few days; and it is also true that Mrs. H. has
been baptized; the ceremony was performed for
us both on the same day, the same Elder
officiating, Mrs. H.’s two youngest girls were
also baptized, my cousin Clarissa and the two
sons of Mr. W. who left college and came home,
when they heard their mother had been healed
by the power of God through the administra-
tions of the Elders,', said Lucy.
	"Do you mean, Miss Clarissa the old maid?"
	"I certainly do, she is not very old either,"
replied her cousin rather doubtfully.
	"Not very old! why she was an old maid
when we were children cousin mine; but she'll
get married out West no doubt, when she goes
[column 3]
to Nauvoo; is that the place you talk so much
about going to when 'the way opens?'"
	"Now Hettie, she is not thinking of that,
but of the new truths she has found, and she
rejoices as we all do in meeting together to sing
and pray, marrying is out of the question."
	"Yes here perhaps, because she has let the
time go by, she is out of date, but in the West
I have heard even old maids find husbands,
but I'm more interested at present in these
young men just from college, I have heard the
eldest son is very handsome, dark complexion,
a good figure—fine eyes, and quite polished in
his manners, and you say cousin that he has
been baptized by a Mormon Elder, I can
scarcely believe my senses."
	"Cousin you need not trouble yourself about
his beauty or his manners, while you have
Ralph, there are fine-looking Mormons doubt-
less married and single."
	"Cousin Lucy!" cried Miss Fay excitedly,
"if you can secure Mr. W. I'll forgive you for
breaking off with Henry, and you can if you
will for you are more than his equal in every
respect, and what a handsome couple you would
be, and how all the girls would envy you."
	"Cousin dear," said Lucy Reynolds solemnly,
"I have no heart for joking. Every time I
think of Henry, my courage almost fails me,
and you must not talk to me of marriage with
any one. Henceforth my life shall be devoted
to the interests of the Church, and I hope to see
my mother and grandmother converted to the
same faith that I have espoused. And you my
dear cousin whom I have always so fondly
loved, my playmate from my childhood, let me
entreat you to come and hear the preaching
of these Elders and you too will be convinced
of the grand truths they proclaim, promise me
you will come."
	"I cannot, my mother will not permit it,
and Ralph would be more offended than Henry
is, were I to consent to go to a Mormon meet-
ing."
	And so the two cousins separated for a time,
one light-hearted and indifferent to religion,
the other with a hope buoyant in her soul that
God would over-rule all things for good to
those who trust Him; and yet sad when she re-
called the separation from her lover, her
affianced husband.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT. ﻿


BEECHER SAID.—"I pity those women
whose staff is their needle; for when they lean
upon it, it pierces not their side, but their heart.
The devil’s broad sword, in this world, has
often been the needle with which a woman
sews to earn her daily bread. I think the
needle has slain more than the sword of war.”
“Any feeling that takes a man away from home
is a traitor to the household.” “The mother’s
heart is the child’s school-room.”   If a man
is odious in society, he might as well be in
prison. The worst prisons are not of stone,
they are of throbbing hearts outraged by an in-
famous life.”


In Binghamton, N. Y., at the County Court
and Court of Sessions, held Oct. 23, the
following cases on motion were ordered to be
dismissed: The people vs. Emily Brooks, of
Kattelville, and others, indicted for violating
election laws of the State of New York; the
people vs. Alfred Brooks, indicted for pro-
curing illegal votes. These are the cases, it
will be remembered, of the women who voted
at Kattelville, several years ago. They were
indicted, and the indictments are now all set
aside. Mr. Brooks advised the voting,
believing it to be legal under the existing laws
and constitution of New York. District
attorneys are not anxious to bring this class
of cases into the courts.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


HALLOWE'EN.

Only a picture from my boyhood’s past—
A picture that on memory’s walls shall last

An Autumn sunset bathed the farm-house old
With deepening tints of ruby and of gold,
And leaves of yellow, purple, brown and red,
Like jewels, everywhere a lustre shed.
Within the merry shouts of boys and girls—
A happy mother’s cluster of fair pearls;
And grandma, with her knitting, rocking slow,
Upon her dear, old face a peaceful glow. 
She thinks of other eves that she has seen,
And other hearts that played on Hallowe’en.
Cuddled in craddle, bady coos with glee,
And rafters ring with mirth and melody,
And round and round, with clear, sweet voices sing:

	“Russet or bough or bitter-sweet,
		Greening	or golden	pippin;
	Happy are they that do the feat
		While their heads they dip in.
	Bob, bob, bibbety bob,
		You take one breath between;
	Oh. this is the way we children play
			On Hallowe’en!

	“Russet or bough or bitter-sweet,
		Greening	or golden	pippin;
	Only the lazy find defeat
		While their heads they dip in.
	Bob, bob, bibbety bob,
		You take one breath between;
	And this is the way we children play
			On Hallowe’en!"

Now mystic spells are hovering in the air,
And grandma tells us from her rocking chair,
Of long ago when she, a little child.
Joined in these revels, and the fun grew wild.
“Ah dears," quoth she, “with salt held in my hand,
Before the glass one night I chanced to stand;
For I was told that one who loved me best
Would o’er my shoulder peep before I’d rest.
Then o’er my shoulder I the salt would throw;
All this was many and many a year ago,"
"And did you see a face?” with wonder-eyes
Some one would ask. Grandma would look so wise.
“I did, my dears; the charm ne’er failed with me,
I looked, and o’er my shoulder I could see 
The face of one who loved as loves no other—
The gentle face of my own sweet, sweet mother!’
		—GEORGE COOPER in The Golden Days.


NEW-FASHIONED SINGIN'

Afore Sue went to town ter school
	She sung ez nat’ral as a bird;
She didn’t warble then by rule,
	But when her pipin’ voice I heard,
I’d quit work jest ter hev a tune;
	The men about the place did, too;
But sence she came from school last June,
	She don't sing like she used ter do.

In singin' I'm a tarnal dunce,
	Somehow I can't stick ter an air;
But when a lot sings all ter once
	I growl a few words here an' there.
But Sue, a baby, tired o' play,
	Inter her mother's arms 'ud creep,
An', in her drowsy little way,
	She'd kind o' sing herself ter sleep.

I liked her hymn tunes mighty well:
	Her hymns in gen'ral struck me right,
Like "Dennis" an' old "Silver Street;"
	And there was one—my favorite.
Now how was it that tune began?
	I only recollect one bit—
"Her brow was like the snowdrop an'
	Her throat was like the swan's"—that's it.

An' then there was a song about
	"Endearin' young charms' an' ze how
If she should lose them charms, no doubt,
	The feller'd love her jest ez now.
An' one about a gal whose beau
	Was not well fixed an' went away;


Then ez her father’s funds was low,
		She took a chap named "Robin Gray.”

	An' now all day she caterwauls
		Four hours or so, and never fails
	At lots o’ monkey-shines she calls
		Her exercisin’an’ her scales.
	The same consists o’ prancin’ roun'
		With whirligigs and curleykews
	An’ caperin’ up an’ dwindlin doun
		With no more tune than squeaky shoes.

	An' if so be her ma observes,
		"Yer pa would like ter hear yer sing,”
	She then begins ter rack my nerves
		With some consarned Eyetalian thing.
	These songs that’s writ in furrin tongues
		Are mighty high toned tunes maybe;
	They may be good ter test the lungs,
		But words jest makes a song fer me.

	I don’t enjoy her singing much,
		I s’pose ray taste is kinder rough.
	An' all the things she's learned is such
		Gymnastic, hyfalutin’ stuff,
	Them hymn tunes now she says is queer,
		I an’t no doubt but what that’s true;
	But still I wish she'd let us hear
		The old songs like she used to do.
							HENRY B. SMITH.
Hearth and Hall.


FOREIGN CORRESPONDENCE.
			Vatia, Tutuila, Samoa.
				   Oct. 1 1889.
EDITOR EXPONENT:—
	Since last writing to you we have changed
our home from Aunuu, to Vatia, a village on
the northern side of the island of Tutuila.
And here the first Latter-day Saint mission
house, on Samoa, has been built. The brethren
have labored hard and faithfully, to build a
home that might be a resting place for the
Elders who are called to labor on Tutuila and
Aunuu. And how delightful it is to have a
home of our own to dwell in. One where we
may have a few moments to ourselves, without
six or eight natives with their greasy, almost
naked bodies, lying on the floor smoking, and
asking all sorts of silly questions; always pre-
fering to talk about how the cars run, what
kinds of food there are in America, what
the houses look like, if there is lots of nice
cloth etc. rather than faith, repentance and
baptism.
	On the 17th of June the quiet routine of
our daily life was broken into, as our boat was
seen in the fog, bringing the four missionaries,
B. Solomon, B. Smoot, H. E. Booth, and J. J.
Bennett, who had arrived that morning on the
steamer, Maraposa. All was excitement! We
felt as though we could hardly wait for them
to land; so anxious were we to meet them and
hear the news from home. And oh! with
what impatient, eager hands we opened our
boxes or valises sent by kind relatives and
friends, as necessities, and comfort to cheer us
in our far off home. For the time being we
were as a lot of happy children, to whom Santa
Claus had just paid his respects. And many
were the exclamations of surprise, that burst
from our lips as we unpacked our goods.
	July 24th we spent as a holiday. We
were just settled in our new house, and after
partaking of a nice dinner; we strolled off in
little groups, for pleasant walks along the
sandy beach, through the tall cocoanut groves,
or up the beautiful mountains so densly
covered with ferns, shrubs, climbing plants
and all kinds of tropical vegetation, and
occasionally a miniature Niagara Falls which
had a tendency to make the stroll very
romantic, and pleasant. As the glorious sun
gradually fades behind the high mountains
which surround our village, and the beautiful
twilight is struggling with the shades of night,
we all gather on the lawn in front of the house,

[Column 2]
where we have songs, accompaniments on the
guitar and mandolin, lively conversation and
lemonade. In the evening we had a splendid
missionary meeting, the Spirit of God being
felt to a great extent. And so ended a very
pleasant day on Samoa. We all felt sorry
Bro’s. A. Beesley and M. E. Booth were not
present, as we know they were spending a
lonely day on Aunuu.
	Pres. Dean and family, Elders E. J. Wood,
B. Solomon, and B. Smoot, are on the island
of Upolu, near the capital, Apia. Elders
Wm. O. Lee and family, A. Beesley, H. E.
Booth, and J. J. Bennett, remained here.
They are laboring hard among this people,
but are baptizing very few, still they do not
feel discouraged, but rather filled with a firmer
determination to over come every obstacle, and
accomplish every duty; realizing that God
alone can convert this people, and that if they
warn them of the judgments to come their
garments will be clear of the blood of all they
warn.
	This people are a very lazy, indolent race:
also a nation of liars, thieves and adulterers.
When told of their sins, they coolly say; “We
know it is wrong to do so, that it is in
direct opposition to the teachings of the Bible,
but that is the way of Samoa, and we don’t
feel like doing otherwise.” And they go on
in their sins, prefering evil to good, darkness
to light.
	These people are great hypocrites, they come
to us as dear friends, with great love, in order
to gain some personal advantage. It is so
aggravating to be imposed upon by “a wolf in
sheep’s clothing.” We have to cultivate
patience continually. We find that we must
be very charitable toward this people at all
times, and under all circumstances: making
allowance, for what has been born and bred
in them for many generations. Leaving
judgment for one who is able to judge and will
do so in much mercy. Their greatest redeem-
ing quality is their hospitality to strangers
who may be passing through their villages.
	On Sept. 19th at 8 a.m. we felt quite a
shock of earthquake, our houses trembled and
shook, reminding us of the explosion of the
powder magazines, some years ago, in Salt
Lake City, only we did not receive as long
or severe a shaking. The natives were very
much frightened. Three of our elders have
just returned from a missionary trip, having
preached in twelve villages, and being denied
that privilege and told to leave two others.
They did so; not however until they had read
part of Luke X, to the assembled chiefs and
warning them of what they were doing.
	This is the beginning of summer on Samoa.
The thermometer registers 92 in the shade, but
the nights are nice and cool. We are all en-
joying good health at the present writing.
						L. C. LEE.


NOTES AND NEWS.
 
	Miss Helen Castle, of Honolulu, Sandwich
Islands, is taking a course at the Harvard
Annex.
	The lady who writes poems under the name
of E. Nesbit is Mrs. Edith Bland. She is a
vigorous socialist, and lives at Lee, one of the
suburbs of London,
	A young lady stands first in the com-
petiition for the six $800 scholarships at Cor-
nell University. What’s the matter with
the young men of this day and generation?
	Miss Clara Barton has completed her work
at Jamestown, and has returned to Washing-
ton, D. C. A public reception was given her
at Willard’s Hotel, Saturday Nov. 2. followed
by a banquet, to which more than two hun-
dred persons have been invited. Commissioner
Hines of the District will preside.


WOMAN’S	EXPONENT.
Woman’s Exponent.	
	EMMELINE B. WELLS,	-	Editor.	
	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah  Terms: 
ne copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months, 50 cts. No 
eduction made for clubs. City papers delivered by mail, 
xtra for postage one year, 25 cts. 
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil 
space, one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00.  A liberal discount 
o regular advertisers. 
	EXPONENT office, No. 25 E., South Temple Street, second 
gate east of Deseret News Office. Business hours from 10 a.m 
to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday. 
	Address all business communications to  
		PUBLISHER WOMAN’S EXPONENT, 
				SALT LAKE CITY UTAH.
Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as 
Second Class Matter.	
SALT LAKE CITY,	-	-	 November 15, 1889.


THE PEOPLE’S PARTY.

	The meetings of the People’s Party Clubs are
creating quite a stir in the community, and will it
is to be hoped arouse the inactive and indifferent
to come forward and do their part when there is
so much at stake. The speeches made at these
meetings have many of them been genuinely elo-
quent and magnetic not stale old political bom-
bast, but really original.
	The music of the bands adds much to the en-
thusiasm, for what American citizen does not feel
patriotic sentiments aroused when he hears martial
music with the fife and drum. It brings fresh to
mind the history of the country and the many
thrilling incidents recorded of heroic courage and
victory’s gained for the nation of which all loyal
people and especially dependents of Revolution-
ary sires and mothers are so justly proud.
	The riding clubs are going to make a grand
display, the People’s Party will not need to be
ashamed of the Utah Mountain boys on horse-
back, nor of the marching clubs either, for the
young men born and reared here in these moun-
tain fastnesses partake of the strength and
grandeur of the “everlasting hills."
	The spirit of the pioneers too is implanted in
their souls, the desire to be free from oppression,
and maintain the liberty guaranteed by the funda-
mental principles of the government of our com-
mon country.
	The women of the people feel these patriotic
sentiments glowing within their souls as much as
men do, and are as ready to give expression in
whatever way is open and practicable for them.
The women are admitted as members of the
clubs, and although they have no vote, they have
a voice, and should be able through their powers
of persuasion to exert a wide-spread influence in
advising and encouraging and inspiring their
husbands, fathers, brothers and sons.
	Women mounted no horseback look very
beautiful and would certainly add much to the
magnificence of display and give a particular zest
to the enjoyment of the exercises. It seems to
us to be a very proper thing, and there is nothing
young ladies like better than to be mounted on a
handsome horse with gallant young men beside
them.
	Gen. Joseph Smith when out on parade as
many of the people will remember always had
some of the ladies among the cavalry, and here
in the the valley it will be recollected it was a
regular custom of the officers, when out for drill
to have an escort of ladies on horseback. Fine
horses and accoutrements, banners and flags and
soul-thrilling martial music make a wonderful
difference, and relieve the monotony of regular
drilling. It is a desirable accomplishment to be a
good rider and the exercise is one of the most
healthful and bracing. The People’s Party need


not be behind in anything that will inspire them
with sublime courage,and that is nesessary in any
place where there is a contest going on, and in
this coming election no pains should be spared
but all honest and honorable efforts made to
secure the people in their maintenance of polit-
ical freedom.


EDITORIAL THOUGHTS.

	The present number of the Exponent closes
the half volume, and we must remind the agents
and subscribers that some have only paid fifty
cents on volume 18 and that the six months has
now expired and we hope all these will continue
their patronage and also that others will come
forward and help by their subscriptions in sus-
taining the woman’s paper. It is the only paper
published in Utah at a dollar a year, and it has
for over seventeen years been the official organ
of the women of Zion. The Exponent has al-
ways published reports of women’s organizations,
and meetings as many as the space would admit
of, not only the Relief Society but the Young
Ladies’ Associations and Primary Associations;
the printed matter has by this means kept the
sisters in all parts of the Territory and in all the
Stakes of Zion posted in regard to what was
transpiring in these associatious, in a sort of
general way. so that there might be a uniformity
in the methods of work, and in the general results
to be reached.
	The Exponent has always given information
on the suffrage question, and has aimed to keep
pace with the cause as it advanced in various
parts of the United States and Great Britain.
During the time when the women of Utah voted
and when bills in the special interest of women
were pending before the Legislature, the Expo-
nent was always ready to advocate and maintain
the woman’s side of all vexed questions. Bio-
graphical sketches of many of the leading women
of the Church are to be found in its columns,
they were carefully written from the testimony of
the women themselves,and in one or two instances
by the person herself. These are records of the
lives, or of incidents in the lives of some of the
most eminent and heroic women, who have lived
in this dispensation. There are many more
sketches and histories to be written, and the
columns of this paper are ever open to publish such
sketches and incidents,and also the best thoughts,
sentiments and opinions of the women of the
Church in prose or in verse. Essays on all sub-
jects are accepted and it has been the desire of
those connected with the paper from the first, to
encourage young women and those in years to ex-
press their thoughts, experiences and testimonies
for the benefit of others and to leave them upon
record.
	Since the organization of the Woman’s Suffrage
Association in Utah, notices of every mass
meeting and convention have been published and
many speeches and minutes of meetings as well.
It is certainly in the strict sense of the word a
representative woman’s paper, and it is most de-
sirable that every President of a Relief Society
should have a copy, and as many others as can,
because it gives them the idea of their own
work and that of others, besides general in-
formation. If the President of the Relief Society
has not the means to pay for it, then the Society
should pay out of its Treasury for at least one
paper, to be read from at meetings and circulated
among the members. Agents for the EXPONENT
will use their utmost influence for the extension
of the circulation in order that the paper may
continue to be issued at one dollar per year. The
sisters will bear in mind that the EXPONENT is
not supported by advertising but by regular sub-
scriptions. To all those who have written for the
paper in past years we would say, continue to

[Column 2]
write and help make the paper a repository of the
best literary productions, of the times, and bear
in mind that this work is educational, and also
that it is better to represent yourself than to be
represented by others. The newspapers of the
United States have much to say concerning
“Mormon women,” and it is certainly a duty to
speak in their own defence, in the pages of their
own paper, and tell their own story in their own
way.


EDITORIAL NOTES.

	In Dr. Barney’s article published in our last
issue, where she spoke of oil and alkali, it is
changed in error to alcohol, it should be alkali.
	All readers of the EXPONENT should carefully
peruse the address entitled Women as Reformers,
and also Mrs. M. J. Tanner’s address at the Mass
Meeting in Provo, and Reasons Why, by Mrs.
Phebe C. Young they are worth being re-read in
the Suffrage meetings throughout the Territory.
	The Conference of the Relief Society of the
Salt Lake Stake will be held in the 14th Ward
Assembly Hall in this City on Thursday Decem-
ber 19th meetings commencing at 10, a. m. and
2, p. m. as usual. A representation from each
branch of the Relief Society is earnestly desired,
and it is sincerely hoped there will be a large
attendance of the members, as this is a time when
union and a faithful discharge of duty on the
part of each individual member seems impera-
tive. Bishops and other brethren, are most
cordially invited to attend the Conference as
also all interested in this benevolent organi-
zation.


A GENEROUS GIFT.

	The Directors of the Deseret Hospital desire
to make acknowledgment though the press of the
gift from the Ghurch, of the proceeds of the
Gilmore Festival, held in the Tabernacle in this
city recently. After the expenses were paid, the
Hospital received the balance, amounting to five
hundred dollars. This sum includes a handsome
donation from the General Tithing Office, Salt
Lake Tribune, Salt Lake Herald, Deseret
News and Bishop H. B. Clawson.
	To each and all of those who so freely con-
tributed to this worthy and charitable institution,
the board of management hereby tender sincere
thanks, and express their appreciation in behalf
of the sick and afflicted, of such deeds of kind-
ness.
				E. B. WELLS. Treasurer,
Deseret Hospital Association.
	Salt Lake City, Nov. 9, 1889.


IN MEMORIAM.

		"Of all the thoughts of God that are
			Borne inward unto souls afar,
		Along the Psalmists music deep,
			Now tell me, if that any is
		For gift or grace surpassing this
			He giveth His beloved sleep!"

	On Tuesday morniug October 22, at 6. 10, a. m.
Mrs Sarah Dunford beloved wife of Elder George
Dunford of this city, departed this life at the
family residence in the seventeenth ward; her
children were around her bedside and so peaceful
was her falling asleep that they were scarcely
conscious it was death. Indeed the feeling of the
presence of the grim monster at whom all stand
appalled was not in the house. She literally fell
asleep according to the promise made to the
Latter-day Saints that they should not taste of
death.
	The disease that preyed upon Sister Dunford


for some time and which she had combated
bravely, and several times successfully, even when
death seemed inevitable, was an affection of the
heart. At times for some weeks together her
sufferings had been intense, and only faith in the
Gospel and the administration of the Elders had
been her support in these times of affliction.
Many were the precious promises made to her
by the brethren, who were called from time to
time to exercise the power of healing in her be-
half. In her illness she was attended by loving
hands, and hearts and everything that caresses
and affection could do to lighten her affliction, or
alleviate her pain was tenderly and dutifully per-
formed by her children, grand-children and
friends.
	Mrs. Dunford was born in Trowbrige, Wilts,
England on the 11th of May 1825 and was aged
64 years 5 months and 11 days at the time of her
decease. When a young girl we have been cred-
ibly informed she was considered quite a beauty
in her native town, having a clear complexion,
large blue eyes and golden hair; she was such a
favorite with all that she was designated the
flower of the village, not only on account of her
beauty, but amiability, her attractive manners and
the sweetness of her disposition. She was
married at nineteen to Brother George Dunford
and subsequently became the mother of nine
children; two sons and two daughters are still
living, the others have gone before her and her
meeting with them will assuredly be a joyful one;
her grandchildren were twenty-four in number,
seventeen of them still living. Sister Dunford
received the Gospel in early life in her native
land and gathered to Zion with her husband and
family twenty-two years ago, in the fall of 1868.
	Brother and Sister Dunford went to reside in
the 17th ward at that time and have lived there
ever since. The following Spring the Relief
Society was organized in that ward and Sister
Dunford accepted the position of a teacher in
the Society, which calling she filled with honor
and faithfulness, until her failing health rendered
it absolutely necessary she should discontinue
her labors in the Society. In social life she was
very agreeable and pleasant, courteous to all, very
unassuming, though when drawn out in conversa-
tion animated and capable of brilliancy in social
converse. Sister Dunford accepted the Gospel
it its fulness including the principle of plural
marriage, and when her husband was imprisoned
for “unlawful cohabitation” she stood by him
with the firmness of a true and devoted wife,
without murmur or complaint. She was indeed a
mother in Israel, not only to those of her own
household, but to many in her quiet and tender
way. Her judgment in matters of economy and
business management was excellent, and her
counsel always on the side of right and justice;
she endured the many trials and crosses of life
with patience and serenity, always endeavoring
to fulfill the smallest duty with that prcision and
regularity that characterizes the truly noble. Her
home was her heaven and it was there she loved
best to be with her dear ones around her.
	Her protracted illness and its effect upon her
made her long for rest, that rest which is calm
and peaceful, and that sweet rest she has found
and we can only say it is well, “God knew the
best.”

	"O earth, so full of dreary noises!
	O men, with wailing in your voices:
	      O delved gold the wailers heap!
	O strife, O curse, that o’er it fall!
	God strikes a stillness through you all,
	      And giveth his beloved sleep."

	The funeral of Sister George Dunford was held
at the old home where she had dwelt so many
years, and experienced so much of joy and of
sadness, on the afternoon of the 24, of October.
Now she was to go out from it forever. Loving
hands had prepared her for burial and as she lay

[Column 2]
in her saintly robes in the magnificent white cas-
ket, she looked as though she was already
celestialized. Wreaths and garlands of flowers,
the gifts of those who loved her fondly, adorned
the bier and a sweet and solmn peace pervaded
the house.
	The services were conducted by Bishop John
Tingey, and opened with singing by the quartette
Messrs. Spencer, Whitney, Pyper, and Goddard,
		“When the swallows homeward fly. etc."
	An eloquent and touching prayer was offered
by Elder Goerge Bywater, Singing,
		       “Spin Spin, "etc."
	The speakers were Bishop O. F. Whitney,
Pres. Angus M. Cannon and H. A. Naisbitt.
	Pres. Cannon referred pathetically to her ex-
emplary life and energy of character and spoke
of having watched her tottering form as she went
to and from the Tabernacle to attend divine ser-
vice. Many precious things were said calculated
to comfort the living, among other sayings, that
she was accepted of God.
	The anthem “She is not dead but sleepeth” was
rendered by the quartette and the benediction
pronounced by Elder Rodney Badger.
	May the consolations of the Holy Spirit comfort
the sorrowing ones, and may they remember her
wise counsel and integrity and say in their hearts.

	"We will do likewise; death hath made no breach
	      In love and sympathy in hope and trust;
	No outward sign or sound our ears can reach,
	But there’s an inward, spiritual speech
	      That greets us still though mortal tongues be dust.’


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


REASONS WHY.
	The old order changeth, yielding place to the
new. And God fulfills Himself in many ways.
So sang the Poet and so say we who live in the
midst of the light and knowledge of the Nineteenth
Century. When the march of intellect and im-
provement is making such rapid strides that we
have to get up early in the morning and shake our-
selves well, to in any way keep up with the spirit
of the times; of one thing we are assured that wo-
men will not be left behind in the race, especially
when all are needed as reformers to clear away
the rubbish and dust of ages; the old fogy notion
that women will be unsexed if they have a voice
in making the laws by which they are governed,
and a right to vote for those who adminster them,
will soon be an exploded idea and a thing of the
past. It is a tradition handed down from the dark
ages, from the days when might was considered
right. When a man might steal his wife from his
neighbors castle and there was no redress, if he
happened to be the stronger; and though it is
true that to-day brain rules, yet it is also true that
much is still necessary to be done to bring about
the complete emancipation of women, a right
which they have a privilege to crave and even de-
mand at the hands of the government under which
they live, to stand on an equal plane with men
politically that they may have the privilege of
having a voice in making all laws, but particu-
larly LAWS that effect their own sex; and the right
of the ballot to secure the election of such men to
office as will justly and wisely administer them;
that they may be qualified to work with all good
and true men for the amelioration of the sorrows
of the human race and of their own sex in par-
ticular.
	I ask is there not a necessity for this? Is there not
a cry going up throughout the length and breadth
of the land; a cry of the widow and the orphan,
a cry of destitution, and also a cry of degradation
and shame from the helpless victims of the lib-
ertine and the seducer of innocence, who can pride
himself upon his station in society and can walk
boldly among the respectable; while his poor de-
luded victim sinks to the depths of woe and des-
pair, and if laws are made to punish men for such

[Column 2]
crimes as this, they often fail to reach the case
and for the woman wronged there is no
redress.
	But say some, these are not fit subjects for pure-
minded women to discuss. No! we can shut our
eyes, sit one’s self down in our rocking chairs,
hug our delusions, draw up our skirts as we pass
by and say, I am holier than these. But a day will
come when we shall be called to give an account
for the use we have made of our opportunities and
the amount of good we have done to the poor and
the oppressed. There are thousands of noble-
minded men full of philanthropy, who would
gladly find a remedy for the so called social evil,
but alas! they are in the minority; right minded
women desire nothing better than to support such
men in office, if they had the right of suffrage. This
is reason sufficient, if there were no other, why
woman should have a right to cast her vote at the
ballot box. It is argued by some that women do
not desire the right of suffrage and would not use
it wisely if they had it. Let me ask, do all men
use it wisely? But say some, woman is so safely
guarded in her home she has no occasion to be-
come acquainted with the rough realities of life, it
would jar her sensibilities. It is the place of man
to care for and provide for her. No doubt this is
true, and happy would it be if all were so pro-
vided for and guarded; but we cannot go in the
face of facts and they tell us that tens of thou-
sands of women, even in this most favored land,
rise every morning to fight a hand to hand con-
flict with man for their daily bread; they stand
with all the disadvantage of having no represen-
tation of their own sex when laws are made. A
master hand will sometimes lift the curtain and
we see beneath the surface into the depths below.
We behold the struggles of suffering humanity, we
hear a bemoaning of fallen women and the cries
of helpless children; while the ashes of murdered
offspring cry aloud for vengeance. When we con-
template such a scene as this, we feel ready to call
upon all good women to give the lawmakers of
our great country no rest until they give unto wo-
men equal rights with men to use the talents that
God has given them, that they may be competent
to assist in making such laws as will benefit
both men and women equally.
	Oh woman last formed and fairest of all God’s
creations; how art thou fallen from the high
estate to which thou wert called! Is there not a
balm for thy wounds, and where is the physician
that shall heal thee? Woman has been compared
to a clinging vine and is always supposed to have
a sturdy oak to which she can cling. The oak
stands strong amidst the trees of the forest, the
vine lovely but frail, with glowing flowers and.
curling tendrils, stands alone looking for some
support. The oak bows down his leafy branches
and tells her if she only twins her tendrils about
him, he will be a shelter to her from the heat of
Summer, and will protect her from the blasts of
Winter; that no danger shall come near her while
he is nigh. This is a beautiful picture; would
that it were always a true one; there are many
clinging vines but where are the sturdy oaks to
which they can all cling? When we look upon
the realities of life, we see a far different, state of
things. We are aware that there are some wives
surrounded by the loving care of husbands,
blessed with the duty and affection of children,
with the comforts of home and the society of
friends; in such a case we are ready to exclaim,
what more can women wish for? We reverse the
picture and what do we see. We must give up
the lovely figure of the clinging vine and see a
vine torn from its support, the scorching suns
of Summer have fallen upon its withered leaves,
and dried its roots, the cold blasts of Winter have
torn its tendrils and dragged it from its support,
and it stands alone with drooping form seeking in
vain for the support it so greatly needs. So it is
with many a woman, and if she is nothing but a
clinging vine hard is her fate.


If perchance she is fortuate enough in the days
of her youth to find the noble oak to which she
can cling, or imagines she can, he goes forth in
the strength of his manhood to meet his fellow
man in the battle of life; he can face the world
for he stands on an equal footing with all whom
he meets, he has a voice in the election, of the
officers who make the laws by which he is gov-
erned, and is eligible to hold any office to which
he may aspire or to which he may be elected; she
devotes the best twenty or thrity years of her life
to a labor of love; she toils and she suffers and
complains not; she endures days of pain and
nights of watchfulness, and is well-contented so
long as she can minister to the wants of hus-
band and children, well would it be for her if
provision were always made for her declining
years; instead of this she too often finds herself
standing alone bereft of him she held dear, broken-
down both mentally and physically, yet is she
compelled to face the world anew, to strike out
into new and untried paths, to begin the battle of
life afresh, without the strength and energy that
was hers in the days of her youth before she de-
voted herself to her labor of love; she is not only
often compelled to work for her own support, but
also to provide for a helpless family.
	What is now her situation as compared with
her brother man, she performs a double duty, she
raises and provides for her family, she is the head
of her household,she is amenable to the laws; if she
has property it is taxed, but she has no voice in
framing the laws or in the election of the men who
administer them. Is not this an injustice? Hath
not a woman eyes? hath she not ears? hath not
a woman brains? is not her intelligence of as high
an order as the negroes? And it was considered
sufficient reason to deluge the country with blood
that they might enjoy rights that are denied to
woman! It is thought by some, if woman has the
ballot there is danger that she will forget her wo-
manhood, she will lose her refinement and aspire
to positions that nature and her delicate organiza-
tion unfit her to fill. We ask would she be less a
woman? would she not still be a wife and mother?
would she fulfill these duties less faithfully because
she knows she stands on an equal footing with her
husband politically as well as socially? Would
she be less a companion for him because she can
converse intelligently on subjects that interest him
most, or would she be less competent to instruct
her sons, or would they respect her less because she
understood the jurisprudence of the country which
they are in duty bound to honor. Many noble
women are awake to the importance of this sub-
ject and are agitating the waters of public opinion
and they will eventually triumph, for it is well-
known all great reforms have small beginnings.
We do not intend to sit down in the corner and
cry for sugarplums when there is so much needed
work to be done, we do not believe in the fiction
of the clinging vine, for although woman is more
delicate in her organization than man, though she
may sometimes carry her love of the refined and
the beautiful to an extreme, still her heart is of
oak, and when called to pass through scenes of
trouble and distress, often exhibits a fortitude and
carries burdens at which man would shrink, and
when the trumpet sounds and the watchman on
the tower cry aloud that the day is breaking, wo-
man will be there with man and receive the re-
ward of victory.
					PHEBE C YOUNG.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


PRAYER.
		BY DR. ELVIRA S. BARNEY.
	AT THE U. W. S. A. CONVENTION HELD IN
THE S. L. ASSEMBLY HALL.

	O Ood, the Eternal, the Father of the heavens
and the earth, in the name of thy Son Jesus
Christ, we a small portion of the human family
have assembled ourselves together under is


roof for an especial purpose and we do pray
Thee, that Thou wilt inspire both the speakers,
and the hearers, with a portion of thy heavenly
divine influence, that good shall be the result of
our assembling together that we may learn, and
prepare ourselves for storm, or fair weather: for
war, or peace, for prosperity, or adversity. Thou
hast blest us in early youth, thou hast been with
us all the journey of life thus far, and we pray
Thee, that Thou wilt forget us not in our declin-
ing years. Thou didst cause that the earth should
roll into existence, and from chaos it was formed.
Thou didst cause that the earth should produce
vegetation, and that the human, and animal crea-
tion should subsist upon it, and dwell upon its
face; and now we do implore Thee, that Thou
wilt bless the earth, that it may still bring forth
vegetation, and that Thou wilt cause the dews of
heaven to descend, and the rains in due season.
Wilt Thou temper the climate for the good of
mankind, and all animal creation, that we may
feel to praise Thy holy name that mankind does
live. Wilt Thou the Great Eternal command
the lightning, the earthquakes, and the elements,
that they may be manifested for the good of all
vegetable, and animal creation. We pray for
the weak; we pray for the afflicted, and we pray
for the strong, that they may be willing to help
carry the burdens of the weak. We pray that
Thou wilt in Thine own way and time, mellow
the hearts of the wicked aud immoral, that Thy
grace may spread and form a canopy over the
whole earth, that sin and wickedness may not be
known, and righteousness triumph. Wilt Thou
be with the rulers of the nation, that Thy voice
shall reach their ears in their council chambers,
that they may fear to make unjust laws, and that
they may study to improve and make better those
already formed, that the cries of the people may
not reach Thee because of oppression. Wilt thou
soften the hearts of the rigid, that the means that
man has at his disposal may be used for the whole
of humanity, may they not forget their benefactor
but ever bend the knee in humble reverence to
Thee. Wilt Thou be with woman as Thou hast
with man, to strengthen her where she is weak
that she may aid in the defense of truth and
right, and where her voice is heard throughout
the broad face of the earth, may it have echo in
the hearts of the honest, and may she serve to
smooth the wrinkles of unjust laws, as she does
and has, the pillows beneath the aching heads of
Thy soldiers and servants. We pray Thee that
Thou wilt bless Thy handmaidens here in this
little nook in the valleys of the mountains, that
we may perform noble and grand acts that will
compare with the grandeur of the mountains
around. Hear us O Father at this time, and ac-
cept of onr humble offering for we dedicate our-
selves, our meeting, and our cause unto Thee,
asking a forgiveness of our sins, in the name of
Jesus. Amen.


[Column 1]
R. S., Y. L. M. I. A., AND P. A. REPORTS
		     UTAH STAKE.
	Minutes of Conference of the Relief Society
of Utah Stake, held in the Meeting house,
Provo, City, August 30, 1889. President
Mary John presiding, assisted by her Coun-
selors. Conference opened by singing and 
prayer. The minutes of the former Conference
were read,also the half yearly reports from the
different branches of the society.
	Sister John said she felt pleased to meet the
sisters in Conference again. Was pleased with
the reports, it showed the sisters were using
their means to help the poor, etc. “We meet
here together from time to time to gain
strength from one another. We have been dis-
appointed in not having Sister E. B. Wells with
us as we expected. We will hear verbal reports
[Column 2]
form the different Presidents who are present."
After reports from the Presidents, Sister John
called on Sister East—from Arizona—who was
present, to speak to us.
	She said: “Although my face is strange my
spirit is in unison with you. I have been
absent from this part of the country for ten
years; previous to my going south I lived where
I could hear and treasure up the words and
teachings of President Young, and Sister Eliza 
R. Snow.” Spoke of the changes she ex-
perienced in attending meeting, quoted some
of the inspired sayings of Heber C. Kimball.
“Let us attend to our duties, it is not wisdom
to fill up our time with vanities, teach your
children holy principles, they have a mighty
mission to perform,” etc.
	After singing, and benediction by Sister M.
Daniels, Conference adjourned till 2 p. m.
	Afternoon session convened at 2 p. m. Con-
ference commenced by singing and prayer.
	Sister East spoke to us again occupying
most of the time in the afternoon, giving a very
interesting account of her first hearing the
Gospel of the Latter-days preached. Was
taught by her grandparents that when the
right gospel should be preached the signs that
are spoken of in the scriptures should follow
them that believed. The first Mormon hymn
she ever heard sung was, “What was witnessed
in the heavens.” And the Elders then gave
an account of Joseph Smith’s mission, and we
were promised that if we sought for it we
should know for ourselves. I sought for a tes-
timony through fasting and prayer, and
received the gift of tongues and prophecy, and
rejoiced saying, now I know that God lives; I
bore a testimony to the same in meeting, at
that time, the Elders were persecuted and spit
upon by some. My father said go home with
me and I will find a place for you where they
will not spit on you, the Elders replied, never
mind they spit upon our Saviour. I had
promised to believe and could I after receiving
such a testimony, be a traitor? It is now 30
years since I covenanted to obey the Gospel
and I feel determined to stand faithful to the
end. Joseph Smith died for the Gospel. “A
mother may forget her nursing child, but the
Lord will not forget His people." The God of
Joseph and Brigham and our God will de-
liver us, Amen.
	Sisters Standring, Cluff and Daniels and also
Susa Y. Gates made additional remarks in the
same spirit and bore strong testimonies to the
truth of this Latter-day work.
	Sister John felt that we had been blessed in
meeting together, wished to bear her testimony
with the rest of her sisters. Conference was
adjourned for three months. Singing,
		"The spirit of God like a fire is burning."
Benediction by Mother Duke.
					C. DANIELS, Sec.

		LAIE, HAWAIIAN ISLANDS.
PRESIDENT ZINA D. H. YOUNG:
	Our half yearly conference of the Relief 
Society of the Hawaiian mission was held at
Laie, Oct. 5. We had a very interesting con-
ference the branches all being better repre-
sented than at any previous one, and a much
better understanding of their duties is plainly
manifest, it is new to most of them, hence they
make many mistakes, but in most instances
they are very zealous, to learn and do all that
is required of them.
	It will be seen that we are making some pro-
gress, nine new organizations have been or-
ganized since last April. There are now 31
branches with a membership of 570. As the
mission is increasing in numbers so in like
proportion will our branches increase. A few
years ago it was a question with the Elders of
the mission of the advisability of organizing a
Relief Society among the Hawaiian Sister


[column 1]

﻿thinking they were incapable of managing and
successfully conducting their meetings and 
other matters growing out of such an organiza-
tion. But time has proven to the contrary
and now the Relief Society in its several 
branches is regarded as one of the great ad-
juncts of the spread of the Gospel in the
Hawaiian Mission.
	Representative Sisters were called and set
apart to travel as Missionaries, who have visited
all the branches of the Society and where the
numbers would justify branches were organized
also visiting and encouraging all the sisters,
where their numbers would not justify an or-
ganization; we have also done some traveling
in which we have experienced great pleasure
and enjoyed much of the Spirit of the Lord
even to the shedding of tears, at the manifesta-
tion of the power of the Holy Spirit in the
midst of our Hawaiian Sisters. We would be
pleased to receive any words of counsel and en-
couragement you may in your wisdom feel to
give, as we are young, but striving to do all we
can in our feeble way.
	With kind regards to yourself and all the
sisters in Zion, I remain your colaborer in the
cause of truth.
					LUCY M. KING.
	Oct. 9, 1889.

				HYRUM
	Oct. 2, was the anniversary meeting of the
Primaries of Hyrum ward, and shortly after 
10 o’clock the meeting was called to order by
Pres. Martha Allen of first district. Singing,
"Gladly Meeting." Prayer by Stake counselor
Emma Pike, repeated by the whole congrega-
tion. Singing, "Now let us rejoice" etc, Minu-
ets of October 2nd 1888 were read and
unanimously accepted. Annual reports from
the 3 districts were read. Besides an in-
crease of membership and hearty responses to
exercises allotted them. There has been in
the whole ward about 50 dollars donated and
gathered by these primaries. 34 dollars of 
this has been used to gather poor children from
Europe. Over 4 dollars towards a sacrament
set for meeting house and for other good and 
praiseworthy purposes has the rest been used.
They have also made 6 quilts which were on
exhibition at the fair and furnished 18 yards of 
good home-made carpet for meeting house
stand. Truly we can say with the Poet,
They are the busy bees of Deseret. Many 
good and appropriate exercises were rendered
during the meeting and we could truly echo
the sentiments of the speakers. A marked
improvement has been made. Pres. Jane E. 
Molen, sisters Mattie Hanson and Emma Pike 
her counselors, together with our worthy
Bishop made some excellent and timely re-
marks, showing the mission before us was to
build up the Kingdom of God; to exercise
faith, attend to our prayers, cultivate good
manners, the spirit of kindness. Guard
against profanity and disobedience. Observe
punctuality. Not to use tobacco only for
bruises and sick cattle and gave other good
and valuable instructions. All officers were
unanimously sustained with two changes. Sing-
ing,  "In our lovely Deseret.” Benediction by
O. H. Rose. brought a profitable and spirited
meeting to a close. 
	2 p. m. The Primary Fair was opened in the
school house. The sum of 5 cents being the
admission fee. Together with many others I
went and saw what Primary children can do.
And to say the fair was a grand success would
be only what it merited. The indetatigable
labors of Prests. Counselors and members in
arranging and making the Fair, are very com-
mendable. Our boys with case and pocket
knives seemed to have been very busy in
making ladders, rakes, wagons and many
other things. Our girls all the way from 3

[column 2]

years upwards had been very busy with their
needles and crochet hooks. Our fruit and
vegetation were excellent and luscious. There
was some work which was done by brethren
while boarding with Uncle Sam which deserved
praise. There were 3 paintings by H. H.
Petersen Jun. exhibited, which called forth
considerable praise for his first attempt. A
quilt was shown to us which took 10 years to
save all the little pieces. Every piece being
spun and wove in the family. It is impossible
to do justice to all who had so earnestly
labored and contributed for the fair in this
short article. It certainly took great patience
and earnest work to make it what it really
was, a successful fair. 
			    Yours Truly,
						J. WRAY.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]﻿
		WOMEN AS REFORMERS.
	Mrs. President and Ladies: I have chosen
to speak to you this evening on the subject of
Women as Reformers. At the same time ac-
knowledging my inability to do even partial
justice to so grand a theme.
	It is well known to all those who are in the
least familiar with the history of the past and
present, that the path of reformers of either
sex has not been strewn with roses, and
especially is this true of the brave pioneers
who have dared to step aside from the path
which man with innate selfishness has decreed
for ages past that woman should tread.
	In the first half of the present century many
of our sister workers in the Suffrage cause
manifested the true martyr spirit in the interest
of freedom and equal rights. Of this class
Mrs Stanton says of Abby Kelly Foster, "that
if she had lived in the days of martyrdom she
would have been burned at the stake." Suffice 
it to say she continued to expound her convic-
tions in the face of difficulties which would
have appalled any but the stoutest hearts.
Suffering all kinds of persecution, scorn ridi-
cule and violence. Speaking whenever, and
wherever she could find an audience, whether
in barn, schoolhouse or the open air. She with
many others in the early days of the anti-
slavery conflict endured the double odium of
being Abolitionists and “women out of their
sphere.”
	At the World’s Convention held in London
in 1840 the women delegates were denied ad-
mission as delegates, simply because they were
women, not from any lack of capability or fit-
ness, as we can see at once, when we know
that the delegation comprised such leading
spirits as Lucretia Mott, Emily Winslow, and
Anne Philips, with others of like fame. Among
the women lecturers of this century we find
Mary Ashton Livermore among the most
noted. From sketches of her early life we
find that the natural bent of her mind was
shadowed forth even in her childhood,much to
the dismay of her stern New England parents,
who had been born and brought up in the
creed that it is unseemly for a woman to speak
in public. She would frequently collect an
audience of her schoolmates and speak to them
with such fervid, passionate eloquence as to
move them to laughter or tears as the occasion
and her subject demanded, for which she was
severely punished by her father, who was an
orthodox Baptist deacon, who held very radi-
cal ideas on the proper sphere of woman. He
always deplored the fact that she had not been
born a boy that he might have educated her
for the ministry as he was sure she would have
made a famous preacher. However it appears
that the accident of sex could not control her
destiny and despite the fact of her being a
woman we find her in her maturer years a
benefactor to her race, a lecturer to whom the
masses delight to listen, and in addition to

[Column 2]
this we are told that she is a model wife and
mother, and an exemplary housekeeper, not-
withstanding we are often told by our brother
man that the two vocations are absolutely in-
compatible.
	Prominent among the writers and reformers
of the present century we find the venerable
Elizabeth Cady Stanton, now nearing her 73rd,
birthday. She has spent nearly half a century
in ably advocating the good cause.  She is the
daughter of a distinguished Judge, and on one
occasion when she appeared before the Legis-
lature of her native state as a champion of the
unpopular cause of woman’s rights, she made
use of the following words in the course of her
grand argument. “Yes, gentlemen, we the
daughters of the Revolutionary heroes of 76,
demand at your hands the redress of our
grievances, a revision of your State Constitu-
tion and a new code of laws.” At the close of
her speech which had been listened to by a
brilliant and talented audience, she was ap-
proached by an eminent lawyer who had known
and revered her father, and who congratulated
her on her success as a speaker, assuring her
that her father, the distinguished Judge Cady,
could not have excelled her, this tribute she
doubtless considered sufficient praise. It has
been said of Mrs. Stanton that she has been
quoted, ridiculed and abused into a national
fame. In fact such has been the fate of all
who have represented the cause of woman.
When their arguments have been conclusive
and unanswerable their opponents have always
resorted to ridicule and abuse which proves
the weakness of their position.
	Miss Susan B. Anthony next claims our at-
tention as an earnest and efficient worker in the
cause of Temperance and equal rights.  She
began life as a school teacher, receiving the
munificent salary of $8.00 per month, although
being credited by school superintendents with
having the best disciplined school and most
thoroughly taught scholars in the County.
Still at the same time for the same work less
well performed they were paying men teachers
$30.00 per month. The manifest injustice of
this policy struck her very forcibly when after
15 years faithful labor and by practicing the
closest economy she had saved $300. This
experience taught her the necessity of woman’s
contending for her rights, and when the
momentous question began to be agitated, she
was prepared to enter the contest heart and
soul. She is and ever has been a friend to the
oppressed, and was an active and faithful
worker in the Anti-Slavery cause until the
Emancipation proclamation rendered it no
longer necessary. It has been said of her that
she deserved the fame she has gained as a re-
former and that she will be remembered by
future generations when all strife and contro-
versy concerning woman’s rights shall have
passed away.
	Among those women who deserve honorable
mention for having the courage of their convic-
tions and not being afraid to suffer for woman’s
cause are the sisters Abby and Julia Smith of
Glastonbury Conn. Descended from Revolu-
tionary ancestors they firmly believed the
doctrine that “taxation without representation
is tyranny.” They were determined to stand
by their belief at whatever cost to themselves
Consequently rather than voluntarily pay taxes
to support a government in which they had
neither voice or choice, they allowed the
sheriff to dispose of their cattle each year for
the payment of their taxes. Of course this
resulted in pecuniary loss to them, but it pre-
vented the sacrifice of a principle which was
dearer to them than their worldly goods.
Hence they have earned the right to be classed
among the reformers of our day and age.
All honor then to the brave women who have
been first and foremost in the great work of
reforming the wrongs of ages, who have en


dured scorn, ridicule and social criticism, and
as a reward for long years of patient toil they
have received a very few privileges where they
should have inalienable rights; and these very
grudgingly bestowed. Women may continue
indifferent on a subject of such vital import-
ance to unborn generations, Congress may con-
tinue its adverse Legislation, State Legislatures
may continue a deaf ear to the petitions of over
half the native-born citizens of their respective
states, but the good will yet be reached not-
withstanding all the obstacles, for equal suffrage
is among the purposes of the Almighty and in
the near future will be the acknowledged law
of the land, and a grateful posterity will surely
accord the meed of praise to those heroic wo-
men which is so fully their due, and which is
now withheld from jealousy and selfishness.
May we all live to see the glad fruition of their
fondest hopes, is the earnest desire of,
						EQUAL RIGHTS.
	Manti, Utah.


﻿WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[column 1]

		A PALACE OF NINEVEH
	One of the great palaces of the city of
Nineveh in the days of Assyrian glory.
	The excavations which were made by Mr.
Layard some years ago, and recently by Mr.
George Smith, on the site of the ancient city
of Nineveh, have rendered it poesible to form
a good idea of what must have been the
beauty and style of its royal palaces. They
appear to have been built on artificial mounds
varying in height from thirty to fifty feet
above the surrounding plain. These were in
some cases construed of [---] or bricks,
and in[---] merely of earth and timber.
The former prevail at Nimrud, and the latter
at the group now known as Kuyunjik. A
solid wall of masonry protected the face of
the mound, and majestic flights of broad
steps led up to the palace itself. Some of the
mounds were of enormous extent, looking in
the distance like natural elevations rather
than the work of human hands. The palaces
erected on these mounds or platforms were of
two or more stories, aud were built of huge
beams and sun-dried bricks faced with slabs of
alabaster.	
	When Assyria was overrun by the Medes,
assisted by the Babylonians, about 656 B.C.,
Nineveh, its capital, was utterly destroyed,
and its people made captive. Happily, when
the chief buildings were overthrown, the beams
and material of the upper stories protected
the contents of the lower stories, and these
were further preserved from decay, though ex-
posure to wind and rain, by the accumulation
of rubbish under which they were buried.
In some cases this layer was twenty feet thick.
	In 1845 Layard succeeded in penetrating to
the ruins under the rubbish, and still later
Mr. George Smith continued the search. The
reward repaid all the toil and danger. A
large number of tablets—nearly ten thousand
—were found covered with inscriptions. The
writing had   been done on terra-cotta clay
while it was soft, and the tablets, which were
about a foot square, were then subjected to
heat until they were hard. They were then
set up against the walls of the rooms in the
king’s palace, and formed the library. One
collection was commenced by King Shalmane-
zer about 860 B. C., and was largely increased
by Sardanapalus, his successor. After
immense labor the writing has been deciphered,
and it is found that the tablets contain a con-
tinued history of the reigns of these kings.
They also bear records of current traditions.
Very remarkably, there are two records sub-
stantially confirming the Mosaic account of the
Creation and the Deluge.
	The early history of Nineveh is involved in
much obscurity, although there is reason to

[column 2]

﻿think that it was one of the cities founded by
colonists from Arabia during the later period
of the Cushite civilization. It is mentioned by
Herodotus, Strabo, and other classical  his-
torians, in terms indicating that its origin to
them was scarcely known, and that its great
antiquity was a matter beyond doubt. In 401
B. C., when Xenophon led the 10,000 Greeks
in that celebrated march which he recorded, he
passed over the territory on which Nineveh
had stood. Alexander the Great, about
seventy years later, fought the battle of Arbela
in the vicinity; and none of his historians
mention the fact of the nearness of the site of
the Assyrian Capital to the place of conflict
	What remains have been since disclosed show
a relation to the Phoenician type of archi-
tecture, which was derived, like the general
customs of those commercial people, from the
ancient Arabians.
						Phenological Journal.


The minutes of Mass Meeting at Provo, and
Mrs. Tanner's eloquent address, also Leaves
From My Journal, Gilmore's Concerts, and
Mrs. E. S. Taylors visit East, are left over for
lack of space.

	Mrs. Lillie Devereux Blake, at the recent
annual meeting of the Pennsylvania Woman
Suffrage Association, told how "Old Abe," the
famous war eagle, passed his time after his re-
tirement in laying eggs, to the astonishment of
his keepers. She called out much merriment
by saying, in reference to the American eagle,
"Gentlemen, your eagle is a hen!"


OBITUARIES.

	It becomes my painful duty to record the death of our
beloved Sister Margaret Helen, daughter of Gibson and
Elizabeth Condie, and wife of Wm. Palmer, who died
November 3, 1889, leaving a husband and six small
children who deeply mourn her loss.
	Sister Palmer has only been married eight years, but she
was the mother of seven children having had two pairs of
twins. 
	She was a kind and affectionate wife, a loving mother,
and a friend to all who knew her. She was a firm Latter-
day Saint and has been President of the Y. L. M. I. A. of
Croydon ever since its organization. She was always
cheerful and had a kind word and good advice to give
every one, she always manifested in her labors a meek and
unselfish disposition; her precepts and examples will long
be remembered. 
		Heal the wounded-hearted husband,
			Who has been so tried and true;
		And protect that little infant,
			Whom its mother scarcely knew.
							M. A. THACKERAY.

	In affectionate remembrance of Benjamin Franklin
Burrows, who died Oct. 28, 1889, being exactly 12 years
and 7 months of age, of typhoid and spinal disease, which
last complaint had afflicted him from 2 years of age, his
little spirit always seemed far beyond his tender years, his
talent for music could not be surpassed, and the gift of
memory far excelled that of children; which was al-
ways noticable at Jubilees, Sunday Schools, and Primary
Meetings; he took great pleasure in laboring in the Deacon's
Quorum which he never missed, always trying to assist his
young brethren to make the meeting interesting; his re-
ligion the last summer was his delight; he was very kind to
neighbors and playmates, and especially to little children.
At the age of 10 years he had great enjoyment in playing
the snare drum for our brass band, he studied night and day
to keep pace with the older members, but on account of his
belng so small he had to give it up which grieved him very
much; but this did not discourage him, the piccolo was his
next study and the last day he sat up he took his lesson.
All that could be done seemed of no avail, his dying testimony
to his loving mother, was grand in one so young. He ex-
amined his short life, and felt satisfied he had done all he
could and felt so happy; said he "tell the primary children to
call for the Elders when sick in life or death and they will
be so happy." His counsel to his older brothers and sisters


was to spend their best days for the work of God, and
never miss their meetings, the brethren's kindness to him
was beyond expression. We feel God has called him as a 
brave little missionary to work behind the vail, for such our
Father needs on earth and in another sphere, and may we
live to pattern after his example though 'tis hard to spare
such a dear boy.

Farewell dear Frank until we meet, God's work shall be our
	chief delight,
Until the resurrection dawns then may we be all shining
	lights.
										E B.
	Huntsville, Weber Co.


Union
Pacific
The
Overland
Route

TICKETS
ON SALE
TO ALL
PRINCIPAL POINTS
EAST, WEST, 
NORTH and SOUTH
AT
UNION TICKET  OFFICE,
Main Street, Salt Lake City,
C. F. Ingalls		J. V. Parker,
City Pass. Agt.	Div.	Pass. Agt.

R.K. THOMAS
EAGLE EMPORIUM
SALT LAKE CITY.
The Leading Retail
Cash House.
R.K.THOMAS

Special to the Ladies.
AT TEASDEL'S
Will be found the latest styles and productions
in
LACES, RUCHES, EMBRODERIES,
FANS, GLOVES, PARASOLS,
RIBBONS, COLLARS, TIES
And an elegant assortment of
DRY GOODS.
Special department for Ladies’ Misses’ and In-
fant’s Shoes.
112, 114, 116, 118 East Temple Street

DAVID JAMES & CO.
TINNERS GAS, WATER & STEAM FITTERS
	Agent for RUMSEY’S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from
the country promptly responded to.
	Address. DAVID JAMES, Box 306. SALT LAKE CITY


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
﻿		The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.
