VOL. 18.	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, MAY 1, 1890. 	NO. 23.


CONTENTS.
	An Item of Experience,—J. P. Hephzibah
True Education,—Ida Hoag. Prayer.—E. A.
Crane Watson. The Privileges and Rights of
Women,—Sarah S. Boyer. R. S. Reports,—
Uintah—Sanpete. Notes and News. Miscella-
neous.
	EDITORIAL:—The Situation in Utah. Editorial
Notes. Mrs. Pfeifer's Will.
	POETRY:—" 'Twere Better So,"—Lula. Trust
in God,—Israel. Nature,—Dr. E. S. Barney.


"'TWERE BETTER SO!"

	"'Twere better so—'twere better so!"
		I would not clasp the idol now,
	Which brought my youthful heart such woe,
		Such clouds of grief to my young brow.

	Though curbed by doubts and fraught with pain,
		Half hopeful dread could bliss impart;
	The dream was fair and shall remain
		A sweet, sad memory in my heart.

	A tree by storms torn from its roots,
		Transplanted, nursed by tender hands,
	May offer richer flowers aud fruits,
		And hardier grow in milder lands.

	My beautiful, my bright ideal,
		No longer will I deem thee false,
	The image of a brighter real,
		Thy presence strengthens and exalts.

	When sorrow's troubled sea I've crossed,
		No darkening shadows will appal—
	'Twere better to have loved and lost,
		Than never to have loved at all."

			LULA


AN ITEM OF EXPERIENCE.

	Being quite a reader of the Exponent and
taking quite an interest in the good pieces
that are published, I thought I would not al-
together shirk out of telling a little of my ex-
perience in this Church and Kingdom. I have
been with this people almost as long as any
one living at the present time, I was baptized
the 8th day of March 1836, in Hounsfield
Jefferson Co,, N. Y., emigrated to Kirtland
the next spring in '37, have been with this
people since that time, have passed through in
common with my brethren and sisters all the
drivings and mobbings up to the present time;
notwithstanding our trials the Lord has been
with this people and given them strength ac-
cording to their day, has blest them with His
Holy Spirit and given comfort in time of
trouble.
	I bear testimony to the truth of this Gospel
that was delivered to Joseph Smith the
Prophet.
	We live in the day when the same Gospel is
taught to the people on the earth, as was
taught in the days of the Savior and His
Apostles, the power of God has been made
manifest in the healing of the sick, I have seen
the sick healed by the administration of the
laying on of hands, by those holding the
priesthood, I have been healed myself when
all around me supposed me to be breathing
my last. I was restored by the power of God


through the administration of the laying on
of hands.
	Sisters let us strive to live our religion, keep
all of our covenants made at the waters of
baptism, be kind to each other, never mind the
trials we are passing through, let us try to keep
the Spirit of God and He will bring us off
conquerors' through our Lord and Savior
Jesus Christ.
		J. P.
Salt Lake City Apr. 30, 1890.


[Column 1]

HEPHZIBAH.
XX.

	O, happy youth, how beautiful it seems—
		Without a care,—and all its bright array
	Of glorious visions—where the future gleams
		In rainbows tinst, o'er-arching all the way.

	The young bride found her position as a
daughter-in-law very irksome. She had never
really been controlled, she had been guided,
sometimes restrained, but absolute control she
had never known. Mrs. Harvey was imperi-
ous,she never allowed anyone to exercise their
freedom; husband, sons, daughter-in-law, all
must submit to her. Hepsie discovered this
fact in the first few days after her marriage,
and determined to resist the authority of a
mother-in-law.
	"I will not be spoken to as your mother
addresses me, I have never been accustomed
to such treatment, I shall rebel against all such
authority, I would rather go out and teach
and earn my own living than be under her
control," said the young wife to Harold a few
days after the marriage.
	"My darling; mother does not mean to be
harsh with you, she only wants you to conform
to her ways and be more womanly, and not
pine after your mother and your own old home
and all that sort of sentiment, she don't com-
prehend it, but one thing is sure, she shall not
interfere with you—we'll go on a wedding tour
and avoid all this and by the time we come
back perhaps she'll have changed her views,"
said the young bridegroom.
	"But Harold where can we go? I cannot
go among my friends, they've all discarded
me on account of Mormonism, and now your
father says we are not to start for Nauvoo
until Spring. O, how I wish we were going
now, I'm sick of waiting, out there we could
have a house of our own, if it were built of
logs, and we should be so happy, if we could
only be left alone."
	"Hepsie, my dear, I can fix all this. I'll
speak to mother. She must not make you un-
comfortable. And we'll have the wedding
tour any way. I know where to go, and there
will be lots of parties in town this Winter and
we shall have a jolly time."
	Poor little Hepsie, she had no idea what a
jolly time meant to Harold, though he was her
husband. However, time went by quickly,
and one party after another was given, to
which Harold and his young wife were invited,
and always attended, but Hepsie had no en-
joyment whatever in these things. She longed
for the springtime to come when they could
start for Nauvoo, she was entirely out of her
element, and she could not be content.
	The wedding tour as they called it was taken 
in mid-winter, and Hepsie really enjoyed that,
a handsome sleigh, a fine horse and full strings
of new bells, and only herself and Harold, who

[Column 2]

knew all about driving, and the cold frosty air
as they flew over the snow from village to
village, and town to town was exhilarating.
	Our modern young ladies would think this
a very primitive wedding tour, and so it was,
but happiness does not consist in a costly
trousseau, or elegant wedding presents, or even
a trip to Paris, though that is very delightful;
but Hepsie fully enjoyed this Winter pastime
of sleigh riding and visiting Harold's relatives,
uncles, aunts and cousins by the dozens, old
fashioned folks with college-bred sons, and Acad-
emized daughters living in country homes with
every convenience and ample entertainment
for dozens, or scores of guests, and the hearty
welcome with which they were everywhere
greeted by the Spooners, the Danforths, the
Merrimans, and others, some living in Massa-
chusetts, some in Vermont, and others in Con-
necticutt.
	The quaint places and funny stories of re-
lationships, and the vivid descriptions of "the
good old days" of the past pleased Hepsie,
and in the long Winter evenings she would sit
and listen to the lively conversation, for as
they traveled from one place to another, the
evenings were the times of social intercourse,
and goodly cheer withal, and she would
imagine all those tales told over again in books,
as she had once expected, to gather up just such
material to write her novels.
	Very little was ever said about religion, for
the Harvey's relatives though they were
numerous, were not religious, and Harold,
though he had been baptized, knew less about
Mormonism than Hepsie, and she, though
convinced and somewhat earnest and naturally
spiritual had never received a strong testimony.
It was quite understood everywhere they went,
that Harold and his wife were going to Nauvoo
early in the spring, but they met no prejudice,
and in fact the cousins' generally said, "O,
how I wish we were going out to the Far
West, too." Illionois, then, to these New Eng-
land people seemed such a long way towards
the setting sun
	This bridal trip occupied nearly a month,
and when they returned the house was all con-
fusion with packing boxes, chests, trunks, etc.
Mrs. Harvey, the mother-in-law. was much
annoyed that Harold had been away so long
when there was so much to be done, "and
besides" she she, "the horse and sleigh are to
be sold, and it is too late now to get a good
price for a sleigh, you're just like the Har-
vey's," she added addressing Harold, you
know how to spend means, but not how to save,
you don't take after the Spooners at all.
	Hepsie trembled. She knew Mrs. Harvey
would have something to say to her, and she
immediately resolved to defend her position.
Alas, for Hepsie. Mrs. Harvey waited until
Harold had left the room and then commenced
a tirade of abuse such as she was accustomed
to use in scolding her two bound girls, orphans
they were and Hepsie had frequently befriended,
them when their tasks were over-hard. If this
were an essay instead of a story; one might
moralize on the condition of children "bound
out," until they are of age; but to return to
Hepsie. Mrs. Harvey began, "I've no patience
with such love sick nonsense as you've put
into Harold's head, you are only children any
way, and ought to be told what to do. You,
Mrs. Harvey, as you think yourself could have
overlooked Hattie and Maria and the cook if
you had stayed at home, though, for that


matter you make the cook more extravagant,
but I can't tolerate idleness in my son’s wife,
besides you’re making him think, that writing
verses and singing songs, is of more consequence
than earning your own living. Harold isn’t
of age and he shall not have a cent of our
money to waste on you ; I expect both of you
to do your part now, and after we go to
Nauvoo; your being delicate will not excuse
you from doing your share."
	This was more than Hepsie expected and as
she could not answer for crying "she flounced
up stairs," as Mrs. Harvey told Harold after-
wards "without any ceremony."    Harold
found his wife in tears as usual, but he also
learned "that she would not and could not any
longer stay there."  "What will you do he
asked?"  "I shall go home," she replied, "if
you choose to take me, very well, if not, I will
walk, its only five miles, and I prefer to go
through the woods alone, to being here in the
midst of luxury."
	Harold was sure she meant to go, so he in-
formed his mother that Hepsie was going home
to stay until the time of the departure for the
anticipated journey; Hepsie could hear what
passed between them, all the sharp words on
both sides, but she did not relent; finally with
the most bitter tone Mrs. Harvey added, "its a
great pity you didn't marry your cousin Mary,
she was desperately in love with you; and its
plain to be seen Hepsie is not in love, or she
would have been jealous of Mary, when you
paid her so "much attention." Mrs. Harvey
knew very well when she made this stinging
speech, that she had planted a thorn in the
heart of Harold at least, and she hoped in
Hepsie's too. She knew Harold loved his wife,
moreover, she had urged the marriage, she
had promised to be a mother to the girl, who
had at least made some sacrifice in marrying,
even if the Harvey's were better off, as she
was often reminded by the mother in law.
It is not our intention to go into the particulars
in regard to all that transpired, but on a
beautiful day early in the month of April,
when the birds in the groves were singing their
matin melodies, Hepsie bade a long and last
farewell to the dear old places she loved so
much and nevermore expected to see. Her
mother and the younger children were intend-
ing to gather with the Saints early in the fall
of the same year; this fact alleviated some-
what the pain of parting with them. The
older brothers and sisters were married (save
one brother) and lived some distance away, so
she did not see them to say good-bye, these
farewells would have been sad as they dis-
approved her course, and she was not equal to
the strain upon her nervous system. The
Thanksgiving previous they had all met in the
old home, and even then a presentiment per-
vaded them that they would never all meet
again.
Hepsie tried to be brave when she turned to
take leave, but the tears would fall––and she
realized in a slight degree that she was going
forth to encounter unknown difficulties, yet
believed she had a strong arm to lean upon.
A private conveyance took them to Springfield,
Mass. where the party numbering between
forty and fifty people were waiting at the 
station for the train to Albany. They were 
nearly all strangers to Hepsie and almost to
each other, and Hepsie felt her heart fail as
she gazed round for one encouraging look. It
seemed to her there was not a sympathetic face
to be seen. Harold's mother cast upon her a
withering glance, it was the first time they
had met since that unfortunate day when the
young couple returned from their journey.
Mrs. Harvey calculated Harold's wife would
come to her and make things right, but she
kept her distance, seldom a word passed
between them, and then in the most common-
place way. The trip to Albany was rapid and
the company stayed over night at a hotel, and
indeed it was late the next day before they
were on board the Erie canal boat bound for
Buffalo. Traveling in those days at the best
was not what it is to-day with every conveni-
ence and luxury possible to reach  by the in-
ventive genius and skill of man. After reach
ing Buffalo, N. Y., which took nine days, the
rest of the journey was by steamboat, making
several changes at points on the way.
	A description of the journey, incidents and
scenery, and also the company would be very
interesting, but we must hasten to finish the
story without much detail. Friends met the
Saints at the Upper landing, at Nauvoo, and
the company dispersed. Some of the party
had been very attentive and kind to young
Mrs. Harvey, among them an old maid from
New Haven, who seemed lonely herself and 
even more homesick than Hepsie: she used to
say, "poor little thing you're only a child not
fit to be married, your husband knows little
more than yourself–and as for his mother, she
hasn't a spark of human feeling." Hepsie
would not open her heart even to Miss B., she
accepted her attentions and tasted her deli-
cacies, but was as silent as the grave in regard
to her own feelings. When the company
separated, each to go in different directions,
Hepsie lost sight of the friends who had been
the kindest and tenderest upon the journey.
She was so ill and homesick that anything at
all was too much for her to endure, she could
scarcely think for herself. Harold had waited
upon her, had anticipated almost her every
wish, had carried her in his arms often, and
when worn out with fatigue she had fainted, he
would call the Elders to administer to her.
No husband could be more gentle or more
thoughtful. Yet the child's heart was almost
broken.
The Harvey's had relatives in Nauvoo and
went direct to their home. Here the subject
was always the Gospel and Hepsie listened
intently to the conversation. Her spirits
revived somewhat on reaching the city of
Nauvoo, and her faith was greatly strengthened.
She immediately felt the influence that per-
vaded the holy city. The very first evening
after their arrival the principle of tithing was
referred to and Mrs. Harvey inquired "will we
be required to pay one-tenth of all we have to
the Church?" Her sister replied emphatically,
"Yes, it is for the building of the temple and
other public purposes." "Well, I shall not
consent to it," replied Mrs. Harvey, "Elias
will of course, he would have given away all
he had before now if I had not prevented it.
Don't tell him its the law, I'll see to it he shall
not do it!"
	Hepsie had always felt Mrs. Harvey was not
true to her integrity and now she seemed to
comprehend her ultimate apostacy.
	Their first Sunday in Nauvoo, Joseph the
Prophet preached, and Hepsie knew the 
moment he stepped upon the platform, and she
saw his magnificent presence, and the influence
he brought with him upon the whole congrega-
tion, that he was in very deed a Prophet of
God.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


TRUE EDUCATION.
[An essay read at the young ladies meeting
in Woodland Ward April 1st.]
Education is a subject which is dear to every
true lady or gentleman no matter to what re-
ligious denomination they may belong. There is
the education of the heart and the education of
the mind,unless both are cultivated we have not
the real education that is necessary in life.
Education brings joy and happiness if sought
after with a pure humble spirit, it makes the
true lady or true gentleman; it is a good
campanion for us in our hours of solitude aud
retirement; by it we gain food for thought and
reflection thereby broadening our minds and
expanding our views.
How great the thirst for knowledge after we
have fully realized its sweet savoriness,after we
have attained this intense craving appetite,like
the wine-bibber after his wine we are never
satisfied, but dive deeper into the founts of
knowledge continually learning every moment
of our lives.
Our religion teaches us to be onward and
upward in the paths of learning, and to me it
seems we cannot become good Latter Day
aints, unless we satisfy this craving within us
for knowledge, this desire for intelligence.
How pleasant it is to be in the society, if only
for a short time, with an educated refined and
cultivated soul; the sweet influence is felt for
along time after, (quoting from the poet
Longfellow)
'"When’er a noble deed is wrought.
Where’er is spoken a noble thought,
Our hearts in glad surprise
To higher levels, rise.

The tidal wave of deeper souls.
Into our inmost being rolls
And lifts us unawares,
Out of all meaner cares,

Honor to those whose words or deeds,
Thus helps us in our daily needs,
And by their overflow	
Raise us from what is low."

This poem was most forcibly brought to my
mind as I listened to one of our Apostles at
the late Conference in Heber City. I wondered
how the young people could but be impressed
as they listened to the divine truths pouring
from his mouth, his exhortation and entreaty
for them to shun all evil, and to live in such
a way that they might be able to meet their
Creator at the great day of Judgment with a
clear conscience
True education teaches us to be pure and
humble, to be the lady or gentleman at all
times. Some may say, I have not the advan
tages that I ought to have, there is no use my
trying to learn. To such persons I would say
pause and reflect. Is this really so? Has not
your Creator endowed you with a mind ca-
pable of understanding? How many moments,
hours, aye whole evenings have we not spent
in wild hilarity, mirth and dancing in which
there is no knowledge to be gained.
Another one may say “I am too old there is
no use of my beginning now; ’ To such a one I
would say many of our gifted women and men
of the world have begun actual work at middle
age,and have passed through a brilliant career
ere death has overtaken them. I have heard
many a pretty young girl or a bright promis-
ing young boy, give utterance to words some-
thing similar to this “I do not mean to study,
I mean to have a good time while I can,” I
often wonder if from such parentage as this do
not frequently spring our gamblers, horse
theives and murderers?
To me it seems that if the mind seeks not after
lofty pursuits, it must seek after something low
and therefore the heart is often led astray.
Then let us seek after those pleasures which
will elevate and ennoble us that we may rise
above the low paltry vices that beset us on
every side, then we will be more able to cope
with the adversary who is ever against truth
and we will become more firm in the Gospel.
May God bless you all and strengthen us for
the dark trials to come is the prayer of your
sister.
		IDA HOAG


Madame Tchebriokova the courageous
woman who sent the Czar an open letter
protesting against the cruelties practised by
the Russian government, has been pardoned,
and will uot be sent to Siberia.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT


TRUST IN GOD.

When storm-clouds gather thick and dark,
	And hang o’er mountain-top and vale,
The lightning gleams, the thunder rolls,
	And wildly shrieks the rising gale;
The clouds with pent-up fury burst,
	Now rules, the storm-king, dread, and drear,
Benumbed, and faint, I cry for help,
	Alas! no helping hand is near;

				CHORUS
I'll put my trust in Him above,
	And humbly pray on bended knee,
"As firm as flint, as true as steel,
	O, Father, grant that I may be."

When trials throng on every hand
	The loss of health, of wealth, of friends,
And all I think, or say, or do,
	To direst disappointment tends;
When pleasures, comforts, are unknown,
	And all my days are full of woe—
And earth and hell their powers combine,
	To make secure my overthrow.

When brother man, with hell-born hate, 
	Bears down with cruel brutish hand,
Forgetting justice, mercy, truth,
	Perverting laws of God and man;
The bigot world looks on and smiles,
	Applauds, then lends a hand as well;
Then, tiger-like with taste aroused, 
Springs on the prey like fiend of hell.

When friends prove false, loved, trusted, friends,
	(Alas! that it should e’er be so)
When loved ones with deceitful guile,
	Betray me to my deadly foe.
	Oh cruel fate! my cup is full!
Why hath my God forsaken me!
	Look up, my heart; thy God still reigns;
He only means to temper thee.

Then let me lead a godly life,
	Obeying Him who rules above,
Then shall my God, my shelter be,
	Through faith made perfect by his love;
Then shall all dangers turn aside;
	Then shall I triumph o'er my foes;		
Then shall I wear the victor’s crown,
	Though tempests, earth, and hell, oppose.
								ISRAEL.


NATURE.

Nature's Laws have ever taught me, that,
In her was something grand, sublime,—Godlike;
Far more than man, with all his boasted powers,
Of heart and brain, can possibly compete with. 

Behold the plants, that adorn our earth;
In them a gradually increasing growth, both night and
	day;
So feeble once,—perhaps unseen by man.
It was easily crushed— dwarfed, or bowed to the dust;
The scorching sun, when added to a drouth,
Was more than enough to destroy its powers,
But it was wont to cling to a latent hope,
And it pierced the soil with its tendril roots.
Earth's soul had been warmed by the burning sun,
Imparting strength that kindly fed, and gave it life,
Until it gracefully towards the zenith climbed;
It became a grand and mighty tree, compared to the dwarf,
The crippled one, that did not—perhaps could not grow.

Earth what of her? She often belches forth,
Her pent up force, in molten fiery streams,
And from her shaking cliffs fragments tumble;
Huge masses,—boulders, into her valleys fall.
From her hills and dales the limpid streams,
In gentle murmurs, o'er her pebbles roll;
While further onward her store is increased, by others
	added,
The volume now in figures I could not express;
But suffice to say, it has become, a swollen stream;
Even her banks are filled to over-flowing;
And the great boiling ocean receives her all.

View the Earth's Seas, dotted here and there with barks,
O’er which they dash at times with froth, and foam;


And surge, and boil, as with maddening rage;
With powerful force, they whip the ragged beach;
Their slippery feet rebound, they dance with crash and roar
Sometimes in calm, they meet the sail fore, and aft, with
	dangers dire;
And thus they crush her on the shoals in darkness dense,

Now from earth we'll view. that which surrounds.
Light and darkness, is the result of the position of the sun,
According to distance far or near, warmth is received from
	him;
The reflecting rays of the sun upon drops of rain produce
	the rainbow tints,
And from the lowering clouds, the rain, snow and hail de-
	scends.
The lightning, madly shoots with serpent tongue, it girts
	the earth;
And from the lightning splintered trees, the flames ascend;
From among the hills, and towering peaks the thunders
	roll.
The winds, they gather with increased fury and powerful
	weight, 
They sweep the earth, uproot the trees! Oh God!
In this we must acknowledge Thee, Thy Almighty power;
All Nature teaches me that Thou art God,
The one and ever living God of Truth.
							DR. E. S. BARNEY
	Salt Lake City Mar. 17th 1890.


[column 1]
FOR THE EXPONENT:
				PRAYER.

		"Prayer is the soul's sincere desire,
			Uttered or unexpressed;
		The motion of a hidden fire
			That trembles in the breast.
	Oh thou by whom we come to God;
			The Life, the Truth, the Way!
		The path of prayer thyself hast trod;
			Lord teach us how to pray."	
	The Lord’s people have ever been taught to
pray for that they desire in righteousness, and
we find in perusing God’s word that He has
also promised to grant us what we pray for.
	In Christ’s sermon on the mount He ex-
horted all to pray, saying, “ask and it shall be
given, knock and it shall be opened,” in that
same sermon He also taught his disciples how
to pray, more perfect yet simple language it
would be difficult to have chosen; at that time
He said "we should not pray simply to be
heard for our Father knows what we need be-
fore we ask,” for this reason how particular
we should be when presenting ourselves before
the throne of grace, how pure, simple, and
from the heart should our petitions be, our
Savior has set us a most beautiful example,
Jesus prayed for Peter in the prospect of his
fall, He was so well acquainted with the design-
ing Satan, He knew the enemies desires and as
the great Intercessor He pleaded with His
Father for him, and what He did for Peter,
He will do for us if we will ask him and exer-
cise proper faith; we may lose the prayers of
a wise father and even a fond mother, but if
we will rely upon him, Jesus will file our
petitions into heaven before the Father in all
our trials, our bereavements, our sorrows, Christ
will advocate our cause and plead for our com-
fort and solace.
	I would not infer that because we are
prayerfully disposed that we will escape all
ills, tribulations and suffering, there are many
follies in us that need correction, if we were
not loved by the Father we would never be
chastised, but He loves us too well to even
seem to sanction a wrong in us, we cannot
escape all trials but we can be resigned.
Parley P. Pratt once prayed when harassed
and tried very severely “If I must pass through
all this suffering Father bless me with peace-
ful resignation;” if we will sincerely pour out
our souls to Him, He will help us to know
that every trial is a blessing to us in some way
or other.
	Just before the crucifixion of Christ, his

[column 2]
agony of mind, the dread of his ordeal was
so great that He sweat drops of blood, on his
knees in the garden of Gethsemane; He prayed
to his Father, with all the fervency of his be-
ing that "if it were possible the bitter cup
might pass," but, He added “not my will, but
thine be done,” his sufferings were tremendous;
but his resignation, his unqualified acquiescence
to the Father’s will immediately showed itself
in his noble character, by his entire resignation
to the Supreme will. If then deliverance can-
not always be granted from the many griev-
ances of this mortal state by meekly and
humbly approaching our Creator He will sus-
tain us, He will resign and comfort us and
assist us to see the benefit of our afflictions;
by prayer we will be better able to bear our
chastisement patiently and be anxious for the
sanctification rather than removal of whatever
a just God deems best for our purification in
this world.
	We find in the book of Doctrine and
Covenants section 65, a revelation on prayer
wherein ’tis said “pray unto the Lord call
upon his holy name,” there must really be
great efficacy in prayer, if it was necessary to
give a special revelation upon this subject; we
were required at that time to be prayerful that
we might have greater power in proclaiming
the glad tidings of the coming of the King-
dom of heaven; that the inhabitants of the
earth would receive the word and be better
prepared for the coming of the Son of man.
In another revelation in that same book we
read "he that observeth not his prayers before 
the Lord in the season thereof let him be had,
in remembrance before the judge of my peo- 
ple;” 'tis not only a requirement made of us
but a commandment that we pray ourselves
and teach our children how to pray, that they
may walk uprightly, ’tis the safest way to have
influence in the home. The responsibility of
bringing up children is a great one, though
everlasting blessings attend this care; but we
must be prayerful ever seeking wisdom from
Him, who has promised to hear and answer
our supplications, even then we will be sorely
tried and perhaps see some of our flock go
astray, or torn from us in some heart rending
way, before they are matured or have even
reached the years of accountability.
	We are now living in a time of fiery trials
and unmerciful persecutions, without true faith
it will be almost imposssble for us to overcome
and be found firm. It seems that Satan and
every evil influence is combined in trying us,
besetting our daily walks with temptation of
every conceivable nature, for this reason we
should be wide awake, “pray witoout ceasing”
remembering the prayer Jesus taught his
followers “lead us not into temptation but de-
liver us from evil,” It should be a joy to be
persecuted for the sake of Christ who was so
willing to suffer for us that we might be saved.
"Through much tribulation we must enter the
kingdom of heaven,” in order to endure the
test we must plead continually that our con-
fidence and courage may be strengthened, that
our motives and conduct may be pure this
blessing we can obtain by calling upon him
"who giveth liberally and upbraideth not."
We have been taught to pray for one another,
in the book of holy writ ’tis said “the prayer
of the righteous availeth much if our circnm-
stances in life are such that we can do nothing
more we can plead at Jehovah’s throne for a
father, brother or a tried sister, many hearts
have been made to look up and rejoice through
the prayers of a devotional friend. They are
few indeed who have troden life’s path with-
out having the rod of chastisement or affliction
passed over them the only consolation there
is will be poured upon the tried ones from
that bountiful source from whence comes all
that is peace, and joy, and love.
					E. A. CRANE WATSON.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.
	Woman’s Exponent.
	EMMELINE B. WELLS,  - Editor.
	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah Terms:
one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months, 50 cts. No
reduction made for clubs. City papers delivered by mail,
extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space, one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal discount
to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, No. 25 E., South Temple Street, second
gate east of Deseret News Office. Business hours from 10 a.m
to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
	PUBLISHER WOMAN’S EXPONENT,
					SALT LAKE CITY UTAH.
	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
Second Class Matter.
SALT LAKE CITY, - - MAY 1, 1890.


THE SITUATION IN UTAH.

	The present condition of measures for Utah
now pending before Congress, and the decision
of the Supreme Court in important matters of the
Church would seem to indicate the outlook rather
a dark one, for those whose faith in God and His
promises were not firm and well established.
	The eye of faith is needed to descry the bright-
ness in the distance, for the natural eye alone
discovers insurmountable barriers rising one
above another, that shut out the horizon of hope
and leave only a dim rushlight to lighten our
faith. But our Father in heaven has said that de-
liverance will come to Zion in such a marvelous
way, that none can deny it is from God, or take the
honor unto himself.
	But the Lord intends His people to be tried in
all things, and there are those who seem to see
the dawn of prosperity, as far as this world's
goods are concerned, the trial of riches, coming
upon the Saints. It may be so, and it may be for
the best good; the prophecies of ancient and
modern prophets must be fulfilled in the redemp-
tion and building up of Zion, but it seldom
happens that wealth brings increased happiness
or devotion to God or to His divine laws.
	Therefore it is essentially incumbent upon those
who desire to remain steadfast and faithful, not
only to pray without ceasing but watch con-
tinually that thay may not be overcome but en-
dure unto the end whatever crosses they may
have to bear or temptations beset their pathway.


EDITORIAL NOTES.
	Hon. Samuel J. Randall, whose death occurred
at his home in Washington, D. C., on Sunday
April 13, 1890, was born in Philadelphia, Pa,
October 10, 1828. He was elected to Congress
in 1862, and took his seat December 7, 1863. He
was Speaker of the House of Representatives
from December 1876 to March 1881. In January,
1879, while speaker, he laid before the House
the first Memorial presented to Congress from the
women of Utah, among other things asking that
the law of 1862 be repealed. The writer remem-
bers with great satisfaction the uniform kindness
he has ever manifested towards her and this
people whenever she has met him, or talked with
him upon the conditions under the enforcement of
the laws enacted against this people during the
last few years. One of our exchanges contains
the following notice of Speaker Randall, which
seems a fitting tribute to one who served his
country faithfully and well, and the writer heartily
concurs with the sentiments herein expressed.
	“Hon. Samuel J. Randall, of Pennsylvania,
whose death was recently announced, will take
high rank in American history as a statesman, a

[Column 2]
patriot and a parliamentary leader. He was not
a scholar, but he was a man of fine intellect, keen
perceptions, immense capacity for work, unflinch-
ing courage, and rugged integrity. In war a brave
and faithful soldier, in peace he was ever a sturdy
champion of good government and the people’s
rights. On the floor of Congress and in the
Speaker’s chair his services were important
and distinguished. The most striking features in
Mr. Randall’s character was his perfect integrity.
He would not make a dollar by indirection.
Looking back upon a long career of public service
commencing before the war in the Common
Council of Philadelphia and running through
many sessions of Congress, in some of which
jobbery ran riot, Mr. Randall as he lay upon his
death-bed had the satisfaction of knowing that he
had been aggressively and robustly honest and
had not for his personal profit willfully wronged
either the government or any fellow citizen to the
extent of a dollar. He lived as befitted his in
come. Social allurements betrayed him into no
excesses. His home was modest, his life tem-
perate. He died leaving no great estate. And
surely a great estate can not be accumulated upon
a Congressman’s salary, though some famous
statesmen have demonstrated the contrary.—Ex.

	On Tuesday, the 17th day of April in company
with Sisters Zina D. H. Young and Sarah M.
Kimball, we attended the Relief Society of
Farmer’s Ward, held in the parlor of Sister
Emma Woodruff’s residence just south of the
city. The large parlor was well filled with the
sisters and a very few brethren. Sister Wood-
ruff, the president of the society conducted the
meeting. There were the usual exercises of
singing, prayer, and reading minutes of former
meeting, and then speeches were in order, Sister
Woodruff very happily leading out in suitable
opening remarks, followed by Sister Zina,
General President of the Relief Society of the
Church, who, in her usual eloquent style spoke
for a short time, giving instruction on various
subjects. Sister Gibbie, counselor to Sister
Woodruff and others of the local sisters made a
few remarks, bearing testimony to the truth of
the Gospel, after which the writer, in response to
the invitation of the president spoke briefly upon
faith, the training of children and spiritual culti-
vation. After some other testimonies from the
sisters present, Sister Kimball spoke of the
need of method in our work and the cultivation
of those powers of mind that would make
woman companionable to man, and his helpmate
and equal, politically and otherwise; she referred
to the words used by the brother in his prayer at
the opening of the meeting as significant, “sisters
in the ministry,” or words to that effect, and her
remarks throughout were singularly clear and
impressive. Sister Sarah Jane Cannon, first
counselor in the society spoke quite feelingly of
her good desires and intentions and her willing-
ness and that of the sisters there to labor for the
good of the needy and the sick, and help in what-
ever way possible in promoting the interests of
the good cause. Other sisters bore testimony
and Brothers Gibbie and Wagstaff also testified
of their experience and gave every encourage-
ment possible to the sisters to persevere in their
labors. The meeting was dismissed with singing
and pra er, after which general conversation was
indulged in, Sister Woodruff having already invited
those present to remain. Pres. Woodruff shortly
after arrived from the city and presently a sump-
tuous dinner was served, also fruit, candies, nuts,
etc., in the long dining room adjoining the parlor.
The venerable President seated at the head of the
table, entertained his guests with reminiscences
of the past, his long and peculiar experience in
the Church, his association with Joseph the
Prophet, afterwards Brigham, Heber, George A.,
and other Apostles, and subsequently with John

[Column 3]
Taylor as President, and now with a younger set
of men, feeling he had lived through three
generations of this dispensation. The afternoon
was a most enjoyable one to the writer and will
never be forgotten.


MRS. PFEIFER’S WILL.
	The will of Mrs. Emily Pfeiffer, late of May-
field, West Hill, Putney, England, who died on
January 23rd last, was proved on March 11th by
Mrs. Jemima Lamond, the sister, one of the execu-
tors, the value of the personal estate amounting
to upwards of £63,000. The testatrix, by her
will, after bequeathing £500 to her said sister,sets
out that her late husband left herall his property,
having full confidence she would carry out his
wishes in respect thereof, and she accordingly
leaves all her property to be disposed of accord-
ing to his wishes, as expressed in a letter dated
September 4th, 1884, by which the bulk of his
property is to be distributed among charitable
and educational institutions for women only; and
he states that he considers boys should be
brought up to work, and not be born with silver
spoons in their mouths, and should not have any-
thing left them. By her codicil, the testatrix
gives the residue of the proceeds of the sale of
Mayfield, after payment of the bequest given by
her late husband in the said letter of September
4th, 1884, to his brother, John Pfeiffer, and her
sisters, Caroline Rocca and Jemima Lamond, and
their shares, after they have enjoyed the same
during life, are to revert to her neice, Emily
Bertha Sophie Overweg. She also, by her codi-
cil, leaves the whole of the property of her late
husband invested in securities to be applied in
the establishment and endowment of cottage
homes for destitute girls (preferably orphans), to
be called “Jurgen Edward Pfeiffer’s Homes.”
	Mr. and Mrs. Pfeiffer, whose will is here spoken
of, visited America, and in their route across the
continent stopped at Salt Lake City. In her
book “Flying Leaves from East to West," she had
considerable to say about Utah, and as she had
had told me she should write up her visit to Utah
and would send me the book I was quite
anxious to see it. She was a pleasing writer of
both poetry and prose,and as I had seen her articles
in Littell's Living Age, and she had also spoken
to me of her books, and her work for suffrage as
well as her interest in dress reform. Altogether,
I expected the book would be exceedingly inter-
esting, but she did not send me a copy.
	Meeting a party of ladies at Mt. Vernon one
day, while in Washington in 1886, they inquired
of me, if I was the Mrs. Wells that Mrs. Emily
Pfeiffer had mentioned in her book. I replied
that Mrs. Pfeiffer and husband visited Salt Lake
City, had been two or three times in the office of
the Exponent, and spent an evening at my house.
	"O, then,” exclaimed two or three at once,
“you are the one, and we want to have a talk
with you.”
	I stated to them my surprise that Mrs. Pfeiffer
had not sent me her book. Evidently they knew
the reason, for one of them with a little hesita-
tion in her manner informed me “that she pre-
sumed it was because of what it contained
against our people.”
	I confess I was astonished, for they had been
entertained at the Gardo while here, and President
Taylor had taken more than ordinary pains to
converse with them on Utah subjects. And they
had also visited Sister Eliza at the Lion House.
	I had a very pleasant time with the ladies who
had referred to Mrs. Pfeiffer, both at Mt. Vernon
and on the steamer returning to Washington, and
at parting, one of them remarked, “when I go
back to England I’ll send you Mrs. Pfeiffer's
book,” and she kept her word. The ladies were
traveling for pleasure, they were of different


nationalities, English, French, Spanish and
German and one from Norway. I intended to
have written up that day at Mt. Vernon, for the
EXPONENT, but postponed it and at the present
time, so much that was said has passed from my
mind, that I  fear it would not be interesting.
	Among the items about Utah in Mrs. Pfeiffer’s
book, are some that I will quote to show that she
was impressed with some things she saw, not-
withstanding her prejudices and sarcasms and the
bitterness manifested in some paragraphs.
	She says, “sought out the office of the WOMAN'S
EXPONENT, a fortnightly paper devoted to the
interests of Mormonism and woman’s suffrage,and
introduced ourselves to the editress, Mrs. Daniel
Wells, who was very kind to us, and abounding
in the information I was most desirous of pro-
curing. From her we were able to gather an idea
of the aspect which this strange faith presents to
the educated minority of its female professors.”
She then gives some of my history which she had
heard in part from a lady at Manitou, and closes
the paragraph, “Mrs. Wells admitted the fact of
the plural marriage, but did not volunteer informa-
tion on a subject which is naturally delicate, if
for no other reason than that polygamy violates 
the law of the land.”
	“She freely, however, answered all the many
questions I put to her on less personal topics.”
Mrs. Pfeiffer has forty pages in her book devoted
to Salt Lake City and Mormonism. She speaks
of their visit with me to the Lion House to see
Sister Eliza in this way.
	“After a trifling delay we were introduced into
the presence of an old lady with a mild and
serious face, spare frame, and the sort of
dignity which comes from the possession of and
living up to an idea. She had the narrow fore-
head of a visionary, was upright, and her black
dress hung upon her with a certain homely
grace. She received us at first quietly and rather
coldly.”
	Some few introductory remarks are then given
in detail, in which she speaks of Sister Elliza
showing them the gold watch that belonged to "the
murdered prophet, whose wife she had been.”
	“From this the conversation drifted naturally
into subjects connected with Mormonism, and the
trials its possessors had undergone for their faith.
She saw in these trials the seal of its truth; and
gradually finding she was talking to willing listen-
ers the fire kindled and the old priestess unfolded
to us the inner life of her singular faith,expounding,
and at last I could not but feel, almost exhorting,
in the spirit of a Hebrew prophetess. The face
that had been cold to us at first, grew full of
human love and pity; the dim eyes that had
looked upon the world for eighty years were
tearful, her voice vibrating with emotion. She
was sorrowful, struggling with the thought that
she possessed a treasure of living truth which she
was unable to share with those who owned them-
selves in darkness, or with only that little light
which is a “lantern to the feet." I do not envy
the condition of that soul that could have
watched the earnest face of Sister Snow and not
have felt lifted to some meeting place of sympathy
far above prejudice and even knowledge, and in
spite of the impediment of a repulsive creed.
All that can be found in this singular communion
as food for the higher life, would seemed to have
been seized upon and assimilated by this earnest
adherent, who was now giving testimony of it in a
full tale of natural and simple eloquence. We
were both of us deeply touched; and well we
might be, for the situation had in it an element
that was indeed pathetic. We wanderers in
darkness, only not absolute that it was felt; she,
nearing the end of her pilgrimage; and speaking
to us from a height which she had reached by the
aid of what, in our eyes was a false light.  Alas
for us a poor striving children of men! Who shall
help us, if in our wanderings we have no pity for
each other.”

[Column 2]
	Mr. and Mrs. Pfeiffer also met Sister Eliza at
the Gardo House, and speak of her there in 
much the same strain.  Of the evening spent at
our house she has considerable to say and winds
up with the remark:
	"All of the several persons we met were per-
fectly well-mannered, and full of the most cordial
kindness.  The impression that Sister Snow
made upon us was deepened at every interview.
I believe that however eccentric her opinions,
she had a selfless purity of motive which sur-
rounded her as a luminous atmosphere.  Mrs
Wells appeared a tender mother, and in this stage
Mr. and Mrs. Pfeiffer also met listereliza at
the Gardo House, and speak of her there in
much the same strain. Of the evening spent,g'
our house she has considerable to say and winds
up with the remark:
“All of the several persons we met were'per-
fectly well-mannered, and full of the most cordial
kindness. The impression that Sister Snow
made upon us was deepened at every interview.
I believe that however eccentric her opinions,
she had a selfless purity of motive which sur-
rounded her as a luminous atmosphere. Mrs
Wells appeared a tender mother, and in this stage
of her existence a happily detached wife, content
in the free exercise of her own activity. Dr.
Romdnia was a sensible looking woman who also
had found a sphere of action to her mind. We were
sorry to leave the pleasant light and warmth and
the fellowship of kindly hearts, and however our
views of the evil and corruption at the core of
Mormonism remained unchanged, we sincerely
regretted that the little circle within the radius of
that friendly hearth would possibly be called on
to share in the troubles to come. But we had to
go. Dr. Pratt pressed us to take seats in the open
buggy which awaited her at the door, but I
feared the keen night air. The hardy old prophet-
ess felt herself better able to repel its effects, and
stood lightly shawled, ready to depart with the
medical lady, while we took of each other a
lingering farewell. I see the tall, slim, sable-
robed figure, with the human love and longing in
the dim eyes, see it as I saw it then, and shall
never see it again; though the heart of the aged
priestess which was of those that “hope all things,
seemed to tell her we should meet again.”
Of her visit, to Salt Lake City, Mrs. Pfeiffer has
this to say:	
“Our days were passed in as much communion
with the Mormon people as. we were able to
establish, but the evenings had never failed to
bring to our hotel, Mr. Goodwin, the gentleman
on whom we had called on our first arrival, who
anxious to correct the impressions we might
have derived from native sources, fulminated
against the Mormons in eloquent periods, which
we sometimes recognized in the Salt Lake
'Tribune the succeeding day


WOMANS EXPONENT.


THE PRIVILEGES AND RIGHTS OF
WOMAN.
	What is woman suffrage and what will it re-
quire of them? Go to the polls two or three
times a year deposit a ballot and come
away. That part of their duty will take per-
haps four or five hours in the course of a year.
That is all the majority of the voters do now,
they go to the polls find the regular party
ticket and put it into the box. If they are of
an independent turn of mind they perhaps
scratch out a few names and insert others, hav-
ing done this they return to their farms or
place of business of whatever nature, and wo-
men would return to their household duties.
But if this is all;—what is gained by woman
suffrage? At first the gain would be very little,
perhaps most women voting the same as hus-
bands, brothers, fathers and sons, so that it
would only be an increase in the vote, but
the more important results of woman suffrage
would follow later. When women have the
right to vote, they will find it their duty to ex-
amine public and political questions, they will
read, study, and talk about them with hus-
bands and sons, thus woman will become the
fellow worker with man in this matter as she
has become his companion in many other
things.
	In the savage state woman is the servant
and man is the master, in the Oriental state
she is the plaything of man, in both these steps
of development she is regarded as an inferior,

[Column 2]		
being incapable of holding equal companion-
ship with her lord and master. But in the
third step of human progress which came from
the alliance of Christianity with the Teutonic
races, woman rose into a near state of equality.
This change has been going on until she now
shares with man in his education, his amuse-
ment, his work and his religion, and who
can doubt that this co-operation gives us a
much higher type of society. All that we ask is
that another step be taken in the direction,
that woman shall become the companion of
man in his political and public duty as she has
in almost every other. And now we ask: Why
should one half of the people be excused from
taking part in these great and important
duties? Why in a government of the whole
allow one half to try its talent in the earth?
I maintain that in a government like ours wo-
men have no right to be excused from taking a
full share with men in public affairs.
	When God made man and woman He made
them companions and as they have had more
companionship society has improved. Why
should it make woman less womanly to deposit
a vote, than to put a letter in the post office,
women mingle with men in the streets,
churches, theatres, balls and parties, they nurse
men in hospitals, sell to them in shops, this
does not make them less feminine, why should
voting? To my mind it would improve family
life as it has already, by common work by
common interest.
	The present Queen of England has taken a
more active and controling part in the politics
of her realm, than any of her predecessors and
no one has shown more domestic affection and
interest in her home. By husbands and wives
studying public questions together, her views
will be enlarged and his improved, it would be
a new education to both. Among the ignorant
classes we hear of shocking brutality of hus-
bands to their wives, this is because they take
a savage view of them and treat them more
like slaves than wives, give her the vote, let
man see that she has become a person of im-
portance, that his political leaders treat her
and other women with deference because of
their votes, and he will be necessarily led to
treat her so himself.
	This may seem nonsense to women who live
in comfort and elegance, who are treated with
courtesy and respect, whose every wish is to
those about them a law, but let them remem-
ber that there are women burdened with
labors, treated with brutality and regarded as
having no rights but nevertheless may be in-
telligent and worthy of a better lot in life. I
was talking with a gentleman to day who
asserts that woman’s home indirect influence
is all in all, that they are a power behind the
throne and that they can do more in this silent,
secret way than any other, I say unless this
means that they influence men to vote as they
wish, it has no bearing on the question; it
means that they do exercise a political influ-
ence privately and secretly, then history shows
that this a dangerous sort of influence. It is
a power divorced from responsibility, women
have under Monarchies used such secret in-
fluence, but it has usually been disastrous
having no responsibility for what they did,
they used their powers of persuasion to procure
measures for their own interests and that of
their families with little thought of public
good. No doubt many women have used a
legitimate influence without voting but why
should they not do all this and vote?  Echo
answers why. Respectfully,
	SARAH S. BOYER.


R. S. REPORTS.
UINTAH STAKE.
Minutes of the fourth conference of the


[Column 1]

Relief Society of Uintah Stake of Zion con-
vened in the Ashley Ward Meeting House
March 2nd, 1890. Meeting called to order at
10 a. m. Pres. Sarah Pope presiding, the
house was pretty well filled; Brother R. S.
Collett, James Hawkins, together with the
Bishops and their Counselors were on the
stand and the Presidents of the several
branches of the Relief Society excepting one.
	Singing, "How sweet is redeeming love,"
prayer by A. H. Bartlett, singing "High on
the mountain tops appearing." Minutes of
previous conference read and approved. Pres.
Sarah Pope said she was thankful to her
Heavenly Father for the blessings we are as a
people at present enjoying, and for the privi-
lege of meeting in another conference, "it is
one year ago to day since we had a Relief
Society Conference, we intended to have one
last September, but we at that time had so
much sickness in the valley we could not, I am
pleased to see so many here and I hope we
have come with good feelings towards each
other that we may have the spirit of God to 
be with us, that we may have a good time."
	Sister A. H. Bartlett gave a report of the
Ashley Relief Society.
	Sister Jenson said she desired an interest in
the prayers of all present, "it is the first time
I ever spoke in conference, I have striven to
live up to the requirements of the Gospel and
by so doing have received a testimony of the
same, the Church of Christ is like unto the
body of Christ, and as each member is neces-
sary to make the body perfect, so is each or-
ganization to a whole. We should come to
our meetings that our spirits may be fed as
well as our bodies, each day of our lives we
should try to keep the commandments of God,"
she then read a chapter in the book of Isaiah
that was very appropriate for the occasion,and
also made a few remarks on the same.
	Sister Goodrich reported the Relief Society
of the Merill's Ward. Sister Oaks said the
principles of the Gospel were most beautiful
to her and if we lived up to them, they would
lead us to life eternal, prayed for the blessing
of God to rest upon the sisters for they had
done much in taking care of the sick and
afflicted the past winter. We should be charit-
able, she then read a portion of a sermon of
Joseph Smith's on charity.
	Sister Osser reported Riverdale Society as
doing as well as could be expected. Sister
Olney bore a faithful testimony to the truth of
the Gospel, said we had many trials but
they were generally for our good.
	Sister Sarah Colton reported the Mill Ward
Society, and said she felt thankful to the sisters
for the help they had been in taking care of
the sick.
	Sister Collett spoke on the rearing of our
children said we should be prayerful and set
them good examples and teach them to live
lives of purity, and also bore a faithful testi-
mony to the truth of the Gospel.
	Sister Reynolds and Sister Alpanalp said
they wished to do all the good they could and
bore testimonies to the truth of the Gospel.
Sister Freestone said we should strive to set
a good example before the young and rising
generation; mothers should try to see that
their children went to Primary, for the sisters
do all they can to come and teach them, so
their mothers surely ought to see that they
come to the meeting and go themselves as
much as possible; "the adversary is ever on
the alert to destroy our children therefore we
should try to instil into their young minds true
principles."
	Pres. Sarah Pope said we should try to be
good and kind to each other, we should try
to keep the commands of God that we may
always have His spirit to be with us so when
we go into a sick room the influence we carry
with us is felt; sometimes every touch of a

[Column 2]

person around one who is sick is soothing;
many of the sisters this past winter have
worked over the sick until they have been
worn out; we knew we were doing good in
waiting upon the sick and afflicted; there is a
power trying to overthrow the Kingdom of
God; but will they do it? no they never will,
the work will roll on and come off triumphant,
there are many prophecies being fulfilled, the
Jews are being gathered to their own land,
and many more signs of the coming of the
Savior. How can any body say, I can see no
evidence of the truth of the principles of the
Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints;
there is enough transpiring every day to con-
vince us of its truth, but sisters do not tire in
trying to do good, let us be sure and remember
to look after the sick, and the aged that are
among us, we must look after them and let us
be very careful and not hurt any body's feel-
ings in doing so, and let us take care of our
daughters and sons too, let us continue to teach
the principles of virtue and uprightness."
Conference adjourned until 2 p. m., singing
"Praise ye the Lord," benediction by Pres.
Sarah Pope.
	Afternoon session; meeting at 2 p. m. Pres.
Sarah Pope presiding, singing "I'll praise my
Maker while I've breath," prayer by Sister
Oaks, singing, "I saw a mighty angel fly."
Sacrament was administered after which Sister
Roxanna Remington made a few remarks and
gave some good instructions to the young peo-
ple. Sister Stringham spoke on kindness to
the aged and to be up and doing, and do all
we can to help our Presidents in the different
associations, read a portion of a sermon de-
livered by Pres. Woodruff about six months
ago and spoke a short time on the same.
	Sister Wardle then reported the 4th Ward
Society. Sister A. H. Bartlett spoke on wo-
man's rights which was interesting to all, and
also on the subject of young men going on
missions, those boys that went on missions a
little over two years ago could not speak but
a short time previous to their going, but now
they can occupy as much time as is appropri-
ate for them, it was a trial to them when they
were called yet it has proved a great blessing;
she also spoke well on the principles of the
Gospel and was listened to with intense in-
terest.
	The names of the Stake officers were then
read and sustained. Brother R. S. Collett
made a few closing remarks, gave the sisters
some good instructions and spoke encourage-
ingly to the sisters which was gladly received.
	Conference adjourned until some convenient
time next summer, singing "Awake ye saints
awake." Benediction by Sister Henrietta
Hatch.
		ADDIE LONGHURST, Sec'y.

SANPETE STAKE.
	The Quarterly Conference of the Relief
Society of Sanpete Stake, was held at Ephraim,
in the meeting house, Friday, March 14, 1890.
Pres. M. A Hyde presiding. On the stand
were Pres. O. Peterson and Counselor Beal, of
the stake presidency, and Mrs. E. B. Wells, of
Salt Lake City, also Mrs. Minerva W. Snow,
and Pres. Hyde's counselor, Mrs. Sarah Peter-
son, and several presidents from different parts
of the stake, the Bishops of each ward in
Ephraim and Pres. Allred, of Y. M. M. I. A.;
of the stake. Meeting opened at 10 a.m. with-
singing

	"Glorious things are sung of Zion."

	Prayer was offered by Counselor Beal,
singing again,

	"O ye mountains high."

	Pres. Hyde made a few opening remarks,
alluding to her recent visit to Salt Lake City
and the great changes that had recently tran-

[Column 3]

spired there; also spoke of her long and
varied experience in the Church, stated it was
more than fifty years since she was baptized,
and referred to her acquaintance with the
Prophet Joseph Smith and others.
	Mrs. R. Wareham, Pres. R. S., North Ward,
Manti, represented the society favorably, spoke
of the liberality manifested in giving, thought
there were some indifferent in regard to de-
velopment and opportunities of doing good,
and felt they would yet look back with regret
on such neglect; thought we should all strive
to make good use of our time, and if we do
not, great will be our loss. Spoke of the vast
work done by the Relief Society in many
places in erecting halls and granaries; felt
thankful that she, too, had been fifty years in
the Church this year; was baptized in 1840.
She spoke in warm praise of the presidency of
the Relief Society in the stake, Sisters Hyde,
Peterson and Allred, and of Sister M. W.
Snow, who was a mother in the Temple, whom
she had enjoyed the privilege of laboring
under.
	Mrs. Sarah Tuttle, the next speaker, had also
been a long time in the Chnrch, testified that
since she had been in the Temple, she had been
more spiritual, but was more out of the habit
of speaking, had been working in the Temple
ever since it had been opened, gloried in the
work for the dead.
	Mrs. Ann Lowrey reported, South Ward,
Manti, as the president, Mrs. E. Casto was not
able to attend the Conference on account of
her health. She rejoiced to see the Saints of
all nationalities coming to the Temple; they
must have faith or they would not come as
they did in crowds; thought we should teach
our children to be virtuous, pure and prayer-
ful. We need great wisdom to do the duties
well that are assigned to us.
	Mrs. Minerva W. Snow felt happy to be
with the sisters here in the Conference, and
never felt better in the latter-day work, she
could see the hand of the Lord in what was
transpiring on the earth; knew of a surety
this was the work of God. She was baptized
when seventeen years of age and was now
nearly sixty-nine years old; felt glad to be one
of those to come and take part in this work;
wanted to fill her mission and be ready to go
when her Heavenly Father called. Since
being engaged in the Temple work she seemed
almost to live in the spirit world; made other
interesting remarks concerning Temple work.
She then urged the sisters to do all in their
power to make their homes happy, and a
heaven for the husband and children. Help
those who are weak, take them by the hand
and lead them onward, let us throw around
our children and others a saving influence;
said some very excellent things in regard to
training children. Spoke of the organization
of the Relief Society by the Prophet Joseph in
Nauvoo and its onward progress. Never think
of our trials but be valiant and never reveal
the keys and blessings we receive here.
	Mrs. Anderson, Pres. R. S., North Ward,
Ephraim, spoke upon humility and the bless-
ing of the Lord, represented the sisters in her
ward as good and faithful; peace and harmony
prevailed, though there are trying times, and
and we should do whatever we can to help one
another.
	Counselor Sarah Peterson rejoiced greatly
in the work being done in the Temple and felt
there must be a great rejoicing on the other
side of the vail, felt happy in the work of the
Relief Society, was sure much good was being
accomplished in many directions, if we are
not so prosperous in temporal things, this is a
day of feasting upon spiritual things; made
many other remarks comforting and en-
couraging to all present.
	Conference adjourned until 2 p.m., singing,

	"Come, come, ye saints, no toil nor labor fear,"


[Column 1]

	﻿Dismissed with prayer by Bishop L. S.
Anderson.

	Afternoon Session: Meeting opened with
singing

	"Earth with her ten thousand flowers,"

	Prayer was offered by Bishop C. C. N.
Dorius. Singing

	"Come all ye sons of Zion."

	Pres. Hyde called for reports from other
branches of the R. S. in the stake.
	Pres. Ellen Dorius represented the South
Ward, Ephraim, the sisters were doing well,
alive to their duties and generous in impart-
ing to the needy, hoped we would all be more
united than ever before; always felt it a bless-
ing to sit under the sound of the voice of those
appointed to lead.
	Mrs. Caroline Snow felt proud of being a
worker in the Relief Society; said Sister Wei-
bye, in Manti, sent her love to the sisters, and
would have liked to have been there with
them, but had a very sick daughter, hoped we
would pray for her in her trouble and for all
the sick; thought we should have charity for
one another and love and union.
	Mrs. Taylor said she was thankful to be a
small link in the chain that binds us together,
what we do is little but it is lasting; we are
doing the small things, let us not say any-
thing to lessen the influence of a brother or
sister, we need to be on the watch tower all
the time, true to each other and true to our
friends. The One above will control all, and
our enemies cannot overthrow this work.
	Mrs. Agnes Armstrong—The Lord is good
and He will chasten whom He loves, but trust
in Him and He will only give us what we need.
The roses of the field will not give forth their
sweetness until they are pressed to death and
then we realize how precious is the perfume, as
with us, we are tried and proven to see if we
possess the true elements of salvation. The
day of redemption is near, God will give us
strength if we rely upon Him and perform our
daily duties. There is not as much backbiting
and speaking against each other as there used
to be, in this respect we have improved.
	Mrs. Lena Anderson felt much good instruc-
tion had been given and rejoiced in it, and in
the work among the needy in the Relief
Society; hoped the Spirit of the Lord would
guide us into the right channel.
	Mrs. Ellen Jakeman appreciated the work
done by the Relief Society, and recalled today
the incident of the first organization of the
Relief Society at Beaver, when Mrs. Elmira
Murdock was chosen to preside, and there were
seven sisters and two or three brethren present,
there was so much opposition and misappre-
hension that it seemed difficult to stem the
tide, but Mrs. Murdock then said, that in after
years we would be astonished at the results
that would follow. We have been brought
closer together through these organizations.
She had once been taken to live among
Gentiles, and as she was naturally combatative,
whenever they spoke against our people, she
began to hunt up arguments to prove her
position, so what might have been a detriment
to some, proved a blessing to her. Made some
good remarks upon literature and how careful
we should be in giving to our children proper
reading matter.
	Mrs. E. B. Wells spoke of the great events
now transpiring in fulfillment of prophecy, the
need of faith and of wisdom, alluded to the
feeling of weakness among the sisters, and told
them it was just as essential to know their own
strength as their weakness; spoke of the great
work among our children, the rising genera-
tion, and the work for the dead in  the temple,
thought the people of Sanpete blessed to have
such a sacred edifice in their midst; gave
much special instruction to the sisters in refer-

[Column 2]

ence to their labors and exhorted them to read
and become fully developed in those matters
that would make them companionable to their
husbands; and wise and honorable mothers;
she thought the trials this people were now
enduring were light compared to a devastating
sickness, such as had been in days that were
past. Spoke of the presiding authority of the
Church, and what a very remarkable man
Pres. Woodruff was, full of life and vigor,
even more than many young men, "the trials
of life as we call them sit lightly upon him;"
spoke to the sisters upon improvement, intellec-
tual and spiritual, and urged them not to work
too hard, also spoke of the United Order or a
time when peace and harmony should exist in
all Israel, and all inequalities and difficulties
be adjusted.
	Pres. Hyde was much interested in the
United Order, as it had been touched upon
here to-day, thought it would be a great trial
to speculators; this is a very interesting period
in our history as a people; spoke also of the
appearance of the Prophet Joseph, the impres-
sion he made upon those with whom he asso-
ciated, his noble and dignified bearing. She
had the privilege of hearing his teaching, but
did not then appreciate the importance of each
golden word. He seemed to have the power
of winning every heart, and even his enemies
softened towards him if he could converse
with them. Alluded to the time when her
husband, Apostle Orson Hyde returning
from a council very sad, informed her that
Joseph had thrown the responsibility of the
work upon the Twelve, she felt then something
would take him from the people. She made
some remarks upon the gathering of the Jews,
thought it one of the greatest testimonies of
the times. Sister Hyde then exercised the gift
of tongues, and Sister Snow gave the interpre-
tation.
	Pres. C. Petersen made brief remarks, re-
ferred to the great changes that had taken
place since a conference had been held there,
especially in Salt Lake City, if any one had
uttered these things as a prophecy it could
hardly have been believed; felt sorry to hear
of people being obliged to sell their homes be-
cause of high taxes, but knew it to be the
direct result of disobedience to counsel. "If
we had kept our trade entirely to ourselves and
lived within our means, we should not have
had to open our doors so wide. Co-operation
is the stepping stone to the United Order and
it is my belief that this people will not adopt
it only when they have been tried to the
utmost. In my experience I have found that
the poor are much more willing to accept these
things than the rich. The book of Doctrine
and Covenants tells us that we shall not in-
herit the land of Zion, which is Missouri, until
we are ready to accept the United Order. The
Lord will try us with riches as we have been
tried in poverty." Pres. Peterson spoke nobly
of the woman suffrage cause, and encouraged
the sisters to persevere in their labors in wise
and kindly words of counsel.
	Conference adjourned for three months, the
exact time and place of meeting to be desig-
nated hereafter. Singing,

	"The Spirit of God like a fire is burning;"

	Benediction by Brother Lowrey.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


NOTES AND NEWS.
Germans, consider in an act of politeness to 
kiss a lady's hand. 
Mrs. Elizabeth Cady Stanton's present ad-
dress is Basingstoke, Hants, England, care of 
William Henry Blatch. 
The municipal woman suffrage bill was 
defeated in the Massachusetts House of
﻿Representatives on April 17 by a vote (includ-
ing pairs) of 141 to 73. The affirmative vote was
almost exclusively Republican. There were
24 pairs.
There are now ten Hindoo and Parsee
ladies taking courses of higher study in
England, and a number of young girls are at
school in the mother island. Perhaps some of
these girls will live to see the last “child
widow” in India.
The women students have finally conquered
Basle, which, alone among Swiss universities,
has hitherto refused to admit them. A formal
decree now allows them to matriculate regularly,
but only by way of experiment; and it is stipu-
lated that if the experiment does not work
well, the doors of the university shall again
be closed to women.
Some wise real estate ageuts in Chicago have
engaged women as assistants, whose duty it is
to show houses. A busy man, who wants to
purchase a home, has his wife to suit first of
all. It is generally she who selects the house
and goes around to look at those that are for
sale. The assistant is sent with her. She
knows what women like in the way of closets,
storerooms, laundries, pantries, etc., and she
shows these off with feminine skill.
A bill to incorporate Elizabeth Cady Stanton,
Susan B. Anthony, Lucy Stone, Alice Stone
Blackwell, Jane H. Spofford, Rachel Foster
Avery, and their associates under the title of
the National-American Woman Suffrage
Association, to secure protection in their right
to vote to the women of the United States by
appropriate National and State legislation,
has been refered to the House Judiciary
Committee without objection.
	THOMAS WENTWORTH HIGGINSON advances
the idea that there are two classes of women
who are opposed to woman’s advancement from
her state of subjection. One is the school-girl
and the other is the home woman who rules
every one,husband included, with a rod of iron.
Mr Higginson forgets one class—they are the
strong-minded, conservative women, who have
no opinion of the capabilities of their sisters
and are sure the world would rush onward to
perdition if they were allowed a voice in affairs.
	MME. PATTI was interviewed a few days
ago as to the dress, exercise, diet etc., most
advisable for girls who wish to become singers.
Being asked “What wines may a young singer
allow herself?” Mme Patti answered: “If she
really means to succeed no wines at all. I don’t
believe in wine; it hurts the throat-almost in-
variably. Some young singers, I know are
not strong, and doctors prescribe claret for
them, but it is a bad practice to drink it.
For myself I never touch wine.”
Miss Blanche Willis Howard, the novelist,
lives in Stuttgart, and receives and chaperones
young ladies studying music, languages, and
the like. One of the girls under her care says:
“She is a practical manager, housekeeper, and
accountant.  She teaches us cooking and
economy, which one does not expect from a
poet. Besides all this, she is a half-doctor.
She takes excellent care of the health of the
girls, and tries to make them reasonable in
caring for themselves. She also teaches us
that we won’t have half so many ills if we
don’t think and talk about them. She in- 
sists upon more exercise than we can take,
almost, but our exercise is recreative, and part
of it is swimming in a delightful warm
swimming bath, which we continue all winter."
THE disfranchisement of the Mormons in
Idaho because of their church fealty is hav-
ing its legitimate political successor in the


pamphlet issued by the Massachusetts "Commit-
tee of one Hundred," who propose the dis-
franchisement of all Romon Catholics because
they give their highest allegiance to the Pope,
and therefore cannot any more than the
Mormons be good sectarians and citizens of
the United States." Underlying both these
cases of attempts to deprive people of political
rights because of sectarian beliefs lies partisan
politics, and every believer in individual liberty
should cry out that we are on dangerous ground.
It is just as much an objectionable union of
church and state to keep people out of political 
rights for religious beliefs as to require re-
ligious beliefs for the exercise of political rights.
On the latter much is said but it will only be the
legitimate evolution from the former, which is
now passing unchallenged. 
Woman's Tribune.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


MISCELLANEOUS.
A good deed is never lost; he who sows
courtesy reaps friendship, and he who plants
kindness gathers love.

He who has an empty cup may pray God
to fill it; he who has a full cup should pray
God for a steady hand to hold it. 

If we did but know how little some enjoy
of the great things that they possess there
would not be much envy in the world.—
Young.

In family government let this be always re-
membered—that no reproof or denunciation is
so potent as the silent influence of a good ex-
ample.—Hosea Ballou.

One of the best rules in conversation is
never to say a thing which any of the company
can reasonably wish we had rather left unsaid;
nor can there anything be well more contrary
to the ends for which people meet together
than to part unsatisfied with each other of
themselves.—Swift.

It is one of the strangest of all strange
things in life that people are not kinder to one
another. And it is beyond all understanding
why one trudges along life’s highway should
care to go out of his way to stab another, who
is doubtless having all he can do to keep up
the march and tug his gripsack along.—
Boston-Commonwealth.


PASSED	AWAY.	
	Sister Barbara Jenson of Redmond Sevier Co. departed
this life March 7, 1890, after much suffering and long sick-
ness. Sister Jenson was a native of Denmark, she was 63
years old at the time of her demise, and was the mother of
eight children seven of them are now living five sons and
two daughters; she was an affectionate wife, and wise and
loving mother; she was also a faithful worker in the
Relief Society, she has been a teacher for many years, and
was then President until her poor health would no longer
permit it Although her sufferings were long she bore them
patiently. The funeral services were held at the Redmond
school house Sunday March 10th, and although the weather
was very cold and disagreeable a large number of vehicles
followed her to her last resting place to pay the last respects
to one so good and noble, she was a true Latter-day Saint
and will be missed greatly among those of the family circle,
and also the Relief Society who held her in high esteem.
	MATILDA PETERSON, Pres. R. S. Redmond Ward.


IN MEMORIAM.
Died, at her residence in Croyden, Morgan Co. Utah,
March 30th, 1890. Sister Elizabeth Blackwell, the beloved
wife of Charles Blackwell. She leaves a husband, son and
wife and grandchildren, also other relatives and friends to
mourn her loss. She was an exemplary woman, kind


mother a loving, kind and patient wife, a consistent
Latter-day Saint.
	
Resolved, that we the sisters of the Croyden Relief
Society tender our love and esteem to the memory of our
departed sister, who has been a member of this Society
since its organization in October 1875.
	She was chosen and set apart as Secretary of the Society
and has filled her position faithfully until within a short
time of her demise.
	She also has mingled her voice in testimony of the work
of God and imparted good counsel to both old and young,
and left an example of faithfulness worthy of emulation.
	Whereas;––We feel her loss in her acustommed place
and shall miss her greatly, but we do not wish her back
but feel to say, Peace to her soul, knowing that she will
receive a reward from the Lord for her labors, and rise
with the faithful and just.
	Resolved that we spread these resolutions on the minutes
of the Relief Society, and also send them to the family of
the deceased and to the WOMAM'S EXPONENT for publica-
tion.
	'Tis well with the departed one.
		Her mortal race is run; 
	And angels waited by her side, 
		To bear her spirit home.

ELLEN THACKAREY, President
MARY HOPKINS,
HANNAH TOONE, Counselors.
ELIZABETH COTTRELL, Ass't. Sect.


OBITUARIES.	
	Died at her residence in Spanish Fork, Feb. 19th 1890,
of "La Grippe," Elizabeth Lock, beloved wife of John
Houghton and daughter of Andrew and Catherine Fergu-
son. Born Nov. 19th 1946 in Ruthergland, Scotland.
Came to Utah with her parents in 1855. Was the mother
of fourteen children, eight of whom are living. She was
a devoted wife and kind mother: a faithful Latter-day
Saint, and a teacher in the Relief Society.
	Spanish Fork, March 20th, 1890.		Com.
DEAR EDITOR:
	Through your columns we would chronicle the death of
one of our loved members, Sister Nettie Baker, the Stake Sec-
retary of our Y. L. M. I. A. who died the 2nd of January,
leaving a husband and two baby girls, one an infant.
	While we esteem death as the glorious gate to a land of
joy and beauty, yet mortality whispers words of sadness
and loneliness to loved ones left behind.
	Though earthly life lasts but an hour compared with the
great eternity, yet it seems that the human mind, clothed
in mortality cannot grasp the perfection of God's designs
and, though we fain would look beyond, our vision is often
bounded by the horizon of time.
	Considering all this, we deeply sympathize with the be-
reaved husband, family and fond parents. In regard to
absent ones, we know "They are not dead, but gone
before."
						ALICE HOYT.
Richfield, March 29, 1890.

	Died in the 66th, year of her age, at her residence in
West Bountiful Ward, Davis Co. Utah, after a long and
severe sickness, Sister Jane Argyle. She was baptized into
the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, March
16th 1852, in Birmingham, England, crossed the plains in
1856 with the first company of handcarts, with her hus-
band and six children, and endured bravely all the trials in-
cident to such a journey. She was a faithful Latter-day
Saint. The slightest hint of poverty or suffering would call
forth her strongest sympathies, and she was foremost in
administering to their relief and comfort; sparing herself
no trouble in the hope of benefiting others. She was a
faithful teacher in the Relief Society, always on hand to do
her duty as long as her health would permit, and to bear
a testimony to the truth of the Gospel, and to the goodness
of her Heavenly Father to her, and especially during her
illness. We mourn her departure, but we also realize that
our loss, is her eternal gain.
						L. D. MUIR,  R. S. Sec.

	Died at Brigham City, Saturday March 22, 1890. Eliza-
beth Chapple Smith, aged 74 years. Deceased was born
in Bishop's Hympton's, Devonshire, England May 4th,
1816. Received the Gospel in the year 1849: emigrated
with her family to Utah in 1871, her husband having pre-
ceded her two years to prepare a home for the family.
	It can truly be said of Sister Smith, that she was a Saint


n very deed, honest and up right in all her dealings and
generous to the needy.
	Having passed through many trials and privations in her
native land, to assist the Elders and gather to Zion, and
sad as may be the feelings of the dear ones left behind, we
cannot but rejoice to think that another faithful sister has
passed behind the vail, full of years, and good works, and
sterling integrity. She has now gone to enjoy the society
of the faithful saints, who like her have fought the good
fight and kept the faith, and endured through evil and
good report faithful to the end; resting in the glorious hope
of coming forth in the morning of the first resurrection.
		A. N. B.


TICKETS
ON SALE
TO ALL
﻿PRINCIPAL POINTS
EAST, WEST,
NORTH and SOUTH
AT
UNION TICKET OFFICE, 
Main Street, Salt Lake City.
J. V. PARKER,
Asst. Genl. Pass. Agt.
	
R.K. THOMAS
26, 28, 30, and 32 East 1st South St.,
SALT LAKE CITY.
The Leading Retail
Cash House
R. K. THOMAS
Special to the Ladies.
AT  TEASDEL’S
Will be found the latest styles and productions
in
LACES, RUCHES, EMBRODERIES,
FANS, GLOVES, PARASOLS,
RIBBONS, COLLARS, TIES
And an elegant assortment of
DRY GOODS.
Special department for Ladies Misses’ and In-
fant’s Shoes.
112, 114,116, 118 East Temple Str

DAVID JAMES & CO.
TINNERS GAS,WATER & STEAM FITTERS
	Agent for RUMSEY'S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from
the country promptly responded to.
	Address. DAVID JAMES. Box 305. SALT LAKE CITY


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.

