Vol. 18. SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, SEPTEMBER 1, 1889. 	No. 7.


CONTENTS. 
	Hephzibah—A Story. Phelps Centennial—S.
M. Kimball. Homespun Talks to Mothers—
Homespun.
	EDITORIAL:—The Burnt City. Editorial Notes.
On the Way—Z. D. H. Young. The Cause of 
Mirage. A False Step—Mattie W.
	Leaves from my Journal—M. J. Tanner. R. S. 
Report—Lousia Jones. The Young Woman's 
Journal. Westminster Abbey—J. C. Kittredge.
All Around the House—Courrier Journal. The
Training of Children—Phrenological Journal.
	POETRY—Woman—E. R. S. Lines—Lu Dal-
ton. The Land of Rest—Selected. Recolections
of the Past—Selected
	Obituaries.


WOMAN.
Is there a mind of origin divine
Who has never at some special time
In life, a grand, a fair ideal formed
Of woman, since when first she Adam charmed?

Ah, what great volumes does the word express
The one word woman! e’en without the dress
Of adjectives, or glowing terms of praise,
Or eloquence which poets oft engage.
	
Our ideal represents the graces!
She towers in the most exalted places,
Or hovering as an angel in the lowest depths
Of sorrow, poverty, or even sin, her love is felt.

We see her standing firm with eye intent
Upon an object sought, with will unbent
To vacillating schemes, with fortitude
Enduring all, unmoved from duties, load.

Associated with even the thought
Of Woman is Beauty! and therewith wrought
Like fewest flowers in wreath entwined
Are all the rarer gifts of heart and mind.

The central flower divinely white
Is Chastity! so pure it greets the sight,
And drooping modesty, so true and rare,
Her charms enchance, and make all traits seem fair.

With love as constant as the ocean’s sigh
And soothing sympathies and moistening eye,
With Faith, Hope, Charity! combined
With gentle voice, and every act refined.
	
But now we see her in her highest sphere
Home’s holy sacred altar! Ah, tis here		
Her virtues shine far more resplendent
And her sublime devotion e’en transcendent.

The wife so true, so faithful to the one she loves,
Unfailing in the duty that she owes
To him, and to her offspring, no other
Duty can exceed the band of wife and mother.
								E. R. S.


LINES.
Addressed to Sister Elizabeth Casto of Manti.

God bless thee, sister, pressing on thy way
With double burden on thy shoulders laid;
A sentinel thou standest night and day,
With human weakness on thy Savior stayed;
Thou  knowest He is full of hope and strength,
As well as love and mercy, truth and grace;
And thou hast learned to grasp His hand at length
And walk in light outshining from His face.


Thy cares and sorrows, many though they be,
Thy burdens, great and heavy to be borne,
Bring not a frown upon thy forehead free
And not a murmur to thy lips is known.
Thy steadfast heart, by faith made strong and brave,
Accepts thy lot and upward looks to Him
Whose arm extends the trustful soul to save,
Whose loving kindness never groweth dim.

Oh, blessings on thy head with silver crowned,
The queenly head of one who walks in light,
And sheds a heavenly atmosphere around,
As radiated from a jewel bright.
A mother thou in Israel, and they
Who grow around thee yet shall gladly rise
To bless thee on thy holy, heavenward way,
And scan thy life with reverential eyes.

Oh, blessings on thy lovely, patient hands
That minister in daily works of love.
As constantly as time’s slow falling sands;
And to thy loved one very angels prove;
That, also, filled with gifts eternal, fall
Upon the heads of Zion’s daughters, come
From far and near, in answer to the call
Of that dear Shepherd leading Israel home.

Oh blessings on thy busy, willing feet
Which go and come at duty's stern behest,
And never falter though 'mid cold or heat,
When errands of sweet love are made their guest.
And rich reward awaits them in the day
When in the clouds thy Savior shall descend
With all the sanctified, for in the way
Those feet shall fly to meet thy Lord and Friend.

And blessings on thy tender, faithful heart
That ever felt for all who weep and mourn,
That on this earth hath borne a faithful part,
And by thy trust in God hath been upborne.
He loveth thee, and hath inscribed thy name
In living light within His Book of Life.
How fade all earthly gain, all earthly fame,
Before this heavenly gift Eternal Life.
						    LU. DALTON.
Manti, July 19th 1889.


[Column 1]
HEPHZIBAH
        VI.
	The sobbing, moaning, murmuring sea
	    Brought to her heart a sadness, a distress;
	That seem’d prophetic of her destiny,
	    O'er-shadowing her future happiness.

    After Hepsie had spoken so much like an
oracle the girls seemed to pay greater deference
to her opinion on all matters under discussion
in their private "club," and the child was more
than ever surprised.  Jane who had been so
sympathetic at the first announcement of
Hepsie's description of the life of "ministers'
wives," took her under her especial protection
as it were, and as the other girls held Miss
Jane in high esteem, it gave "the little one,"
some prestige.  Miss Jane W. was the youngest
daughter of a very wealthy man, who in addi-
tion to the title of Colonel—was a Squire too
in his native town and a representative to the
Legislature in the City of Boston;  and these
imaginative schoolgirls fancied Boston the
nearest place to heaven. So Miss Jane who
was very unpretentious in her way and never
had an opinion to give, was nevertheless an in-
fluential friend.
    It afterwards transpired that in matters per-
taining to their beaux the girls always con-
sulted Hepsie, and Miss Ray with all her ar-
rogance was quite confidential with "the girl in
pantalettes;" telling her much of her prefer-

[Column 2]
ences and roguerries and always binding her to
secrecy.  All the girls came confidentially to
Hepsie, perhaps because she was so childish,
and they felt they must tell some one, as girls
do when they begin "to fall in love," and even
women are not so much better in this respect.
Hepsie was rather shy of giving opinions after
her first outbreak, but she was intrusted with
many secrets, and as she had none of her own
to give, or to keep,they were not at all burden-
some.  It was another charter of experience
for her; she learned to be wise, for had she not
been very cautious, serious trouble might have
arisen between these romantic school-girls, who
kept up such flirtations for pastime.  The girls
trusted her implicitly and hearing from all
sides, she was able to make such suggestions
as seemed wonderful to them, not knowing how
well "the little one" was posted.
    Everything went on about the same,for some
time, at the school, and at the parsonage.  As
Hepsie advanced in her studies and developed
in other ways correspondingly, Mrs. Grovesner
opened her heart more and more to her, and
confided to her keeping many things that to
one quick to discern, and intuitive by nature
were like new revelations day by day.  Hepsie
began to think any condition preferable to be-
ing the wife of a village clergyman, with con-
stant burdens laid upon her to bear thanklessly,
though this position had already been proposed
as the most appropriate for one like her.  The
husband always to be considered,  the wife
seldom if ever.  In her heart she resolved never
to marry a minister.  Still nothing could have
been better for a child so peculiarly organized,
than the mental and moral strength given to
her highest and best aspirations, through the
intimate association with this cultivated, re-
fined and accomplished woman, who had also
the time to devote to her training.  It counter-
balanced in a great degree the excessive in-
dulgence of the old Major, and in later years
long after Mrs. Grovesner had been laid in the
silent tomb, Hepsie had cause to remember
with gratitude her wise teachings and instruc-
tions, and had it not been for the balance of
character thus attained she might have grown
morbidly disconsolate, under the accumula-
tion of sorrows that for a time hung over her
devoted head.
    Hepsie studied so hard and was withal so
delicate that Mrs. H. decided to give her the
benefit of the sea air at vacation, and indeed
some change was "absoulutely necessary," as
Mrs. Grovesner had informed her mother, and
to take her home would only have been to  call
up old memories, that it was really thought
had died out, so engrossed did the child appear
to be in the present.  Once having made up
her mind, Mrs. H. though she could ill afford
to spare the means, was yet firmly determined
upon making the journey; and Mrs. Grovesner
gave  Hepsie special instruction as to her
"manners;"  feeling anxious that Mrs.  H.
should be pleased with her discipline, as well
as having an ambition that the little girl
should be perfect in her deportment on her
own account, for she loved the child, and had
already predicted a bright career for her  little
favorite.  Mrs. G. undertook all preparations
in the way of dress, which was very little how-
ever, yet to Hepsie it  was quite an exciting
affair, as she had never before been  to a dress-
maker's establishment, and  it was about  as
trying as her first day at the high school.  She
went through it all like one in a dream, and


when she came home was so bewildered, she
could not have told whether the dresses she
had been measured for, were green, purple,
red or blue.
	The summer vacation came and Mrs. Hatha-
way did not keep Hepsie waiting long,but a day
or two after school closed she made her appear-
ance at the parsonage ready for the journey.
Poor little Hepsie, her pent-up emotions were
too much for her, and instead of kissing and
embracing her mother in the regular way she
fainted in her arms.  It was quite a scene, but
both the ladies were undemonstrative, and so
the affair was passed over with but little com-
ment.  Hepsie went to bed early after the ex-
citement, as they were to start in good time
the following morning; and indeed in the Rev.
Erasmus Grovesner's house, every one kept
goo hours.  Hepsie was told daily, that
“Early to bed and early to rise,” was a habit
that must be cultivated, and she knew well it
was a regular custom in New England homes;
but some way it did not suit her, she was erratic
in her habits and tastes, and was very unwilling
to submit to the severe rules of life laid down
for her guidance.  It would scarcely do to tell
how she passed the hours before retiring after
being sent up to bed, during the time she was
under the careful scrutiny of Mrs. G., but
suffice to say, she seldom went to bed without
an hour or two of rehearsal either in reading or
reciting.  She was also given to scribbling, and
child as she was, she had already written
“verses;” though they were securely hidden
away in her trunk and she felt too sensitive
to submit them to the eye of any one, not even
Mrs. Grovesner, and as for her own mother, she
stood too much in awe of her, even to think of
doing such a thing.
	The two friends so long separated had much
to say to each other that night for many events
had transpired since they last met, but the
conversation soon turned upon Hepsie and
everything else was waived.  The child’s future
was as it were analyzed beforehand, but with
all their far-sightedness, they did not discern
the realities that fairly crowded upon her
within a very few years.
	The morning was a fair one, and when the
lumbering old stage drove up, Hepsie felt a
great sob rise in her throat almost choking her;
she could not speak to her dear friend; a pre-
sentiment that she was parting from her for-
ever came over her, and she went out of the
quaint, old house silent as death.  The good-
bye’s were hurried, for the coachman was im-
patient and they were soon on their way.
They passed through some charming scenery,
and village after village,each one prettier than
the other, and as Mrs. H. was familiar with
the places, she gave Hepsie interesting descrip-
tions, so the time passed swiftly away.  Night
was coming on and Mrs. H. told Hepsie they
would stay at a friend's house in B. as she did
not like “putting up at a tavern.”
	It happened that the house where they spent
the night, was another of those old-fashioned
ones, just to Hepsie’s liking; and tired as she
was she took notice of the quaint, odd furni-
ture and crockery ware, and it was all
engraven upon her memory.  It was her first
“out,” for the other journey had been to school
and she was in too much sorrow then at the
loss of her grandpa, to appreciate either scenery
or architecture.  Hepsie was elated at the idea
of traveling, and seeing fresh sights; there had
been so much sameness in her school life, and
she had such passionate longings for “the far
away or the far-off.”
	The next day they arrived at their destina-
tion and found all in readiness for their com-
ing.  It was not a bit like what Hepsie had
anticipated, and she was sorely disappointed
over it, but when she had rested a little, and
her mother took her to the seashore, she was
enchanted; her joy knew no bounds, her spirits
[Column Two]
were so exuberant that she was scarcely able
to control her emotions; and when she saw the
ladies and gentlemen day after day promenad-
ing leisurely along the beach, she wondered
how they could keep so quiet and self-con-
tained.	
	The ocean had a peculiar effect upon her;
she could not have described it, but it was like
a fascination or a spell, and awakened poetic
emotions that had never been called forth in
her regular school-life; in fact it had been the
special aim of her tutors and friends, to keep
her under control; here was an expression or a
sympathy with her emotional nature.  The
murmur of the sobbing sea answered to some
tender chord that quivered in her soul, and
the vibration was electrical in its effect.
Sauntering on the beach in the twilight she
often felt that in the uncertain future the
ocean would in some way, she could not com-
prehend now, be associated with her life-history;
and so indeed it proved. Not from any ac-
quaintance formed there, however, for she was
still too young for “affairs of the heart,” if in-
deed her mother had not been her daily escort,
but there was little danger of young men wish-
ing to show the slightest preference, while the
girls’ mothers were on the alert.  However the
sea shore is said to be the very place for love-
making and it does indeed seem fraught with
all the sublimely tender and sympathetic in
the nature and in the heart of humanity.
Hepsie however had love affairs, serious ones
too, at a very tender age; and therefore the
patient reader, who perchance thinks this very
tame and prosy will find ere long, “a genuine
love story,” decidedly pathetic, and by no
means uninteresting.
			[To be continued.]


WOMAN’S   EXPONENT.


[column 1]
		﻿PHELPS CENTENNIAL.

ADDRESS BY MRS. S. M. KIMBALL, OF SALT
			LAKE CITY, UTAH.

	Kindred Friends and Fellow Citizens.
	On this centennial occasion, we assemble
with hearts throbbing with sympathy, to honor
the memory of our ancestors, the pioneers of
Phelps, and the defenders of our national flag.
	As I tread this, to me, sacred soil, I gaze in
retrospect on scenes of childhood.  I see my
great-grandfather, Elisha Granger, he leans
upon his staff, bowed with the weight of many
years of earthly pilgrimage.  He died in the
home of my grandfather, Pierce Granger.
	I remember the home with its large kitchen
fire-place, with back-log and fore-stick, and be-
fore the fire suspended a revolving sparerib of
savory smell.  I remember the crane with its
S shaped hooks, on which were hung the tea
kettle and iron pot, and on the coals in the
spacious chimney corner bake-kettle and skillet
were preparing their contributions for table
supplies.  Of the persons present, I only re-
member the face of my grandfather. My last
remembrance of him is, in a log school house,
in Sodus,  worshiping at the cross of Christ,
and trying to lead sinners to repentance.
	Earlier than my day, an event transpired of
which I am requested to speak. "Nature's forces,
God's voice is ever prompting progressive souls
to march forward and occupy new fields which
lead on to physical, moral, intellectual and
spiritual achievement.  One progressive step
ever paves the way for another."
	Adam, after the garden was prepared and
beautified, sent a dispatch for Eve, she came,
and amid sorrow and gladness they planted
their posterity on earth's virgin soil.
	"The branches ran over the wall."  Our
forefathers in frail barks traversed the mighty
deep, and if our foremothers did not accom-
pany them, they followed, to this, to them
[column 2]
new world, they planted colonies amid great
difficulties on New England's shore.
	Some of New Englands sons, among them
my grandfather, Pierce Granger, impelled by
the same progressive spirit, pressed their way
onward through what was then the western
wilds, to what is now proudly termed the Em-
pire State.
	As the pioneer fathers made their uncertain
and many times perilous way, they thought-
fully and carefully marked the trees that their
track might be followed.  I am told that after
the rough log cabin had been constructed,  my
grandfather, after the fashion of mother Eve,
left the home of rest and plenty, to follow her
earthly lord through the dark shadowed wood-
land.  Hills, rocks and rivers obstructed the
unbroken pathway.  Poisonous serpents and
ferocious beasts added terror to the journey, as
the slow ox-team made its laborious way by
the sunlight.  But the darker picture is the
night scene. The weary oxen must be unyoked
from the wood-shod sledge, and as the
darkness gathers around and the gloom
deepens, the pilgrim woman tries to regulate
the beatings of her agitated heart. The wolves
begin to howl, the woman in the anguish of her
loneliness, and with a sense of the perilous con-
dition, prays that the God of love and power,
will protect her and hers. The howling wolves
seem to be continually increasing in numbers
and to come nearer and more near, none but
the pioneers realize the tedious lingering hours
of such experiences, nor yet the heartfelt in-
sense of praise that ascends as the daylight ap-
pears.
	The pioneer women of Phelps, trusting in
God, and such skill as the untutored Aborig-
inies could afford, met the responsibilities of
motherhood and made it possible that you and
I might have existence in these earthly taber-
nacles.  The record of such heroism is preserved
in the archives of heaven.  The true pioneer
woman has an intuitive sense of the future, and
she uncomplainingly endures such hardships,
privations and self-denials, as her pathway may
bring to her.  She says, "Let the result of my
pilgrimage redown to the good of posterity,
and to thee, father and mother, God, be  the
glory given."

		"In the heavens are parents single,
			No, the thought makes reason stare,
		Truth is reason, truth eternal,
			Tells me I've a mother there."

	Of the memorial monument, precious,  be-
cause of the affection which prompted its erec-
tion.  The pioneers take special note, and the
account will be found on the credit side of the
great ledger.
	The picture presented by the grand proces-
sion is sublime and awe inspiring
	As the hearts of the children are this day 
turned lovingly to the parents, so the hearts of
the parents are lovingly turned to the children,
in their spirit bodies they are present with  us,
and the smile of their approbation gladens our
hearts.
	The remembrance of this centennial celebra-
tion, its greetings and reminiscences will be re-
called by us, and the report will be remem-
bered by our children for ages to come.
	We can best honor the memory of our
pioneer progenitors, by exploring and opening
further fields of usefulness, and being diligent
in the cultivation thereof.
	Let us ever remember that our eternal in-
terests are identified with those that have gone
before, and that they cannot be made perfect
without us, neither can we be made perfect
without them. In closing, we bless the memory
of our pioneer fathers and mothers, and ask the
citizens of beloved Phelps to accept grateful
thanks.
	June 17, 1889.


WOMAN'S ﻿EXPONENT.


THE LAND OF REST.
"Where the wicked cease from troubling, and the weary
	are at rest."
		Where is that land of love?
		Oh! mother, tell me where
		The wicked cease from troubling,
		And where no weary are?
		
		Mother my heart is faint,
		I'm longing to be there;
		The cares of life are pressing,
		Oh! mother, tell me where?
		
		Cease, cease, my child; there is no spot,
		That mortals know, where care is not;
		But sin and sorrow both are found, 
		On earth's most consecrated ground.

		And shall I hope in vain, 
		For climes of beauty rare
		Where pain and trouble never come,
		And where no weary are.

		No, not in vain my precious one, 
		The blessed Savior whispers come.
		Have faith in Him; then thou'lt be blest.
		He gives the weary spirit rest.

		Yet not to man has He e'er given
		To know the spot, which we call heaven;
		Be holy; Jesus dwelleth there,
		No trouble comes, no weary are.
									Selected.


RECOLLECTIONS OF THE PAST.
	Sometimes my fancy wanders back
	Adown my life's long trodden track,
	And distant scenes of long ago,
	When my young heart was all aglow,
	Come back as beautiful and bright
	As when at first they gave delight.
	
	Indulging in my waking dream,
	I linger by the crystal stream,
	And watch the pretty speckled trout
	Bask in the sun, or frisk about;
	Perhaps would dip my rod with care, 
	Some unsuspecting trout to snare.

	The old green lane—I love it yet— 
	Where daisy, primrose, violet
	Beneath the hedgerows richly bloom
	And scent the air with sweet perfume,
	While robin sings his sweetest song
	To cheer me as I pass along.

	O, happy were those summer days,
	And beautiful the sunny braes
	Where we, loved brother, often strayed,
	Or loitered in the sylvan shade.
	Anon would seek a change of scene
	And race and frolic on the green.

	In autumn we ran off together
	And wandered through the blooming heather—
	The honey-scented heather, where
	We knew the ripe bilberries were.
	How grand the heather-bells around !
	How sweet the berries which we found !

	The village school—I see it still,
	Where first I learned to wield the quill;
	My schoolmates still seem boys as when
	Their years were only eight or ten.
	How changed ! were I to see them now
	With hoary head and wrinkled brow.
	
	In later years, with cheerful toil,
	I helped to cultivate the soil;
	The varied labors of the farm
	Had such a fascinating charm
	That passing time ne'er drooped his wing
	In summer, autumn, winter, spring.

	But, oh, in riper years there came
	A longing after wealth and fame;
	And so I left the dear old home
	Resolved through foreign lands to roam
	And in those distant climes so fair
	I built my castles in the air.


Most of my hopes have been destroyed,
Yet life has not been all a void;
God's providence has been my stay
Throughout my life's eventful day,
And glowing hopes of future rest
Still soothe and cheer my troubled breast.
							Selected.


[Column One]
HOMESPUN TALKS TO MOTHERS.
	The editorial in the Aug. No. of the Juvenile
has been much in my mind this last few days.
And in connection with the subject therein
treated, viz: that of proper and legitimate
amusements for the young, comes the important
one of legitimate and yet entertaining read-
ing. Because you my dear overlooked over-
worried sister have little or no inclination to
read anything at all, it is not a corollary that
your young fresh and restless daughter feels or
even should feel as you do. If she has the
making of a bright intelligent superior woman
such as you and I would be proud of, she will
not only want to know how to clothe and feed
her body in a cleanly healthful way and to 
keep her home in a neat attractive manner,
but she will also want, insensibly crave, to fill
her mind with all the good and beautiful knowl-
edge in the Universe.
	What has proven the most effective style of
teaching the young? The Froebel or Kindergar-
ten system as it is called in this country.What
are its peculiar methods? To please and interest
the readers, at the same time teaching some
valuable lesson or truth. Indeed have we not
the notable example of our Savior who taught
His disciples by means of the Parable? He was
keenly alive to the importance of driving home
the truths He would inculcate by the aid of
pointed and graphic illustrations.
	It is so with us today. We love to attend
the theatre, to listen to a discourse beautified
by apt quotations, metaphors, and anecdotes as
well as illustrations.
	Mothers, you and I cannot afford to slight
or neglect this home-truth. Our daughters,
giddy, happy, restless creatures that they are,
will learn more lessons from the theatres they
visit, the books they read, than from all the
sermons or rebukes they may hear.
	Much that has been taught them in their
childhood of truth, morality, cleanliness and
even faith will remain indelibly fixed in their
minds. But you have forgotten or overlooked
the fact that with most women all these things
are swept aside if her love happens to be
placed on an unworthy object. Love is a 
most powerful agent in any woman's mind.
And when it comes to the mind of a young
thoughtless inexperienced girl, it is an agent
that enters in as it were and possesses the whole
being.
	Now if the mind of the girl has been en-
gaged, her hopes centered, and her ideals placed
on the love generally pictured in the popular
novel, she is very much in the condition of a
ship at sea without rudder, compass or guide.
And if some fellow jumps aboard, offering to
pilot her into a haven of bliss, she is eager to
find in him all the delightful fascinations of
the novel-hero. The nearer he approaches this
ideal the more dangerous is he to her peace of
mind.
	Perhaps he too is steeped in the pernicious
literature and thenceforth ensues a youthful
comedy which is sometimes well-a-day trans-
formed into a bitter tragedy, the two awaken-
ing to a long bitter tragedy, the two awaken-
ing to a long life of misery as the result of
hasty ill-considered matrimony or perhaps
worse.
	To such a girl a good, honest, downright
lad with no “darlings” “dream of my life,"
"angel-loves" at his tongue's end is a tame com-
mon-place poor spirited fellow who cannot win
[Column Two]
or keep a single affectionate thought from the
novel-spoilt miss.
	Now there is a remedy for all this. There
are novels whose moral is pure and whose per-
usal is a blessing and benefit. The greatest
harm to our girls is not done by the novel
which portrays vice or crime with even too
glaring a hand, for her own maidenly instincts
is protection enough against such as these.
Ah no! Far worse, more deadly in its effects is
the novel in which every word uttered or writ-
ten is of the most refined and chaste character.
But which, first rousing those tender sensibili-
ties of the young mind, exciting all those only 
half-understood and half-acknowledged long-
ings and feelings in the breast of a pure
maiden, by descriptive and delicately veiled
scenes of love and passion, then proceeds to
preach from the text, "Behold here is love,
sweet, passionate and soul-enthralling. It is
worth a whole life of after-misery or after-
shame just to be filled for once with such
delicious bliss."
	Delicious Judge!
	The whole text is—
	“Life for love is well lost.”
	Every event, every word, every scene, every
character is conceived and planned for the
express purpose of the happy culmination of
the two principal characters of the book.
		*	*	*	*	*	*	
	Yet must I assert that the novel is good, very
good in its place, a more powerful teacher to the
young developing susceptible mind than  the
hearth or the pulpit, but it should be most care-
fully selected.
	If your girl craves the intellectual food
and entertainment, she will find means some
way to gratify it.
	Hearing a young married woman speak of 
one of Ouida's novels, I asked her in surprise
if she had been allowed to read such books by
her parents.
	"Oh no," she replied, "mother and father
strictly forbade my reading it."
	"And wherefore then did you see or hear
of it?"
	"Oh, Ma and Pa read this book twice, both of
them. But they would not let me read a
word. You may be sure that just as soon as I 
was married I bought and read that book the
very first thing I did!"
	Consistency!
	Then, parents don't read unless to ascertain
the character of it, any book unfit to put in
your children's hands. But at the same
time supply them with a proper amount of
light reading, encouraging them to gradually
incline to that which is more substantial and
good. History, biography, and the lighter
sciences will or can be gradually taken up
with pleasure as well as great profit.
	Theatres should be as carefully chosen and 
selected as books, for they are even more
powerful teachers of good or bad morals.
	Seems to me we need a Lamanite prophet
Samuel or Abinadi to come and cry out our
sins from the house tops. Do you think he 
would fare much better at our hands, than
he did at the hands of the Nephites?
	Well, I have blushed for our people's in-
consistences. Mothers, shall we do better?
Shall we look to these things a little closer? 
	At a future time I may have something
more to say on this subject.
						HOMESPUN.


NOTICE.
	The Relief Society Conference of the Salt
Lake Stake of Zion will commence in the
Fourteenth Ward Hall on Sept. 12th, at 10
o’clock a. m., and at 2 p. m. All are invited
to be present.
			M. Isabella Horne, Prest.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
Woman’s Exponent.
EMMELINE B. WELLS, - Editor.
	Published semi-monthly. In Salt Lake City, Utah Terms:
one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months, 50 cts. No
eduction made for clubs. City papers delivered by mail,
xtra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space, one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal discount
o regular advertisers.
	Exponent office, No. 25 E., South Temple Street, second
gate east of Deseret News Office. Business hours from 10 a.m
to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
			PUBLISHER WOMAN’S EXPONENT,
							Salt Lake City Utah.
	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
Second Class Matter.
Salt Lake City, 	-	-	    September 1, 1889.


[Column 1]
		﻿THE BURNT CITY.
	To be in Spokane just after the great fire is
something of a novelty to say the least—“A City
of tents" only a few houses left standing in the
business portion of the City. Thirty of the finest 
blocks burned. It would be next to impossible to
describe the scene, and would take a genuine re-
porter to do justice to the subject. Something new
at any rate to see a burnt city. The effects of the
fire demon are upon every side, it has spread
desolation broadcast where peace and plenty
reigned.  Mr. Hussey,so well-known years ago in
Salt Lake City, has a bank here, and the writer is
at present in his house situated far enough from
the centre of town to escape the fire. He has a 
handsome residence new and modern in every
part and he entertains most hospitably. Having
had to wait over here for a train it seemed good
fortune indeed to find an old Salt Lake resident
to whom one could apply when the hotels are in
ashes. Sitting here writing, the rush of the river
(Spokane) is distinctly heard and looking out to-
wards the City one sees ruins weird enough to 
please the most fastidious lover of the strange and
fanciful. The tents scattered up and down are
more picturesque by moonlight and electric light
than in the hazy midday. The barbers, the
bakers, etc., have opened up business in tents,
temporarily, so have other tradesmen and the
saloons and gambling houses are in a place of 
canvas and coal oil. The "wheel of fortune" one
can see through the canvas screen is thickly sur-
rounded by men—and so whether, ill luck or good
luck betides, man bent upon working out his des-
tiny rushes on and on. Neither fires nor floods
seem to quench the insatiate desire of some men to
wait for luck rather than the result of honest toil;
—and so the world plods on; and men and women
rise above calamities and cast about again for new
fields of adventure, or repair the destruction and
havoc of fire and floods. Another city will doubt-
less soon arise from the dead ashes of this doomed
one, and business go on more briskly than before.
At present the streets are crowded with men, and
one wonders if there is not among them those who
are desperate and reckless. Should cold weather
set in early much suffering must necessarily be the
result, but at present the outlook is hopeful. A 
wonderful picture to gaze upon is this city in
ruins, piles of brick and stone saved from the
burnt buildings are stacked here and there ready
to be used again as soon as possible. A number
of those whose places were burned down will put
up much larger and more substantial buildings.
Three of the corners in the central part of the
town sold the next day after the fire for a thousand
dollars a foot to build banking houses upon.
This had a most excellent effect upon the state of
things, and was a good advertisement when tele-
graphed abroad as it was immediately. Mr.
[Column 2]
Hussey had most remarkable presence of mind
when he saw his place must burn, he brought
away in a trunk the books, papers and currency,
necessary to open immediately, and early on the
following morning had procured a narrow place
in one of the few houses left standing, had a tem-
porary railing put in, a sign painted and hung in
its place and at nine o'clock a. m. opened for
regular business. The fire proof safes were all
right and therefore there was not much loss with
the banks. 
	Previous to the fire this must have been a very
delightful town, and one cannot help feeling
sorrowful when viewing or contemplating such a
desolating scourge. Fires, floods, casualties and
calamities are visiting the earth in fulfillment of
prophecy, let the world decide as they may.
Many allude to Mother Shipton's prophecies, but
never to those of the Scriptures or the Latter-day
Saints. But time will tell the story and many
more hearts will ache. May those who have oil in
their lamps, keep them  trimmed and burning,
ready for the coming of the Bridegroom.


[Column 1]﻿
		EDITORIAL NOTES.
	The trial of Mrs. Maybrick in the English
courts has caused considerable comment and
thought among thinking women. The case is un-
parallelled. A woman accused of her husband’s
murder, tried, and sentenced to be hung. If
innocent the accusation itself would be enough to
kill most any woman, if guilty the trial and
sentence would certainly overcome her. Through-
out the case is most shocking and the sentence to
be hanged caused such a sensation that when it
was commuted to imprisonment for life, terrible
as it is, a great relief was felt. However, from
present indications this will not be long, for the
prisoner’s health is failing every day and in death
perhaps release will come.

	The Annual of the University of Deseret 1889-
1890 has been received. The pamphlet contains
84 pages, printed clearly on heavy paper and has
a frontispiece of the large and handsome new
University Building. Much valuable information
concerning this important Territorial institution is
given concisely. A complete index to subjects
first, the names of the Chancellor, Board of
Regents, Officers etc. The Faculty and Board of
instruction is very large and complete, numbering
in all 22 teachers. Instructors in French and
German from their respective countries are em-
ployed, and competent masters of all departments
including vocal and instrumental music,
drawing, painting, architecture and law. A
brief history is told of the University with date
of its establishment and incorporation by the
Legislative Assembly of the Provincial Govern-
ment in February 1850. Particulars are given in
detail in regard to Normal students. Six De-
partments are organized. First Science, Litera-
ture and the Arts. Second Normal, Third Pre-
paratory, Fourth Music, Fifth Art, Sixth Deaf
Mute. Studies for each year are classified and
arranged regularly. Programme and Text books
given, also books of Reference.  Connected with
the institution are two large libraries and a
Museum. Current literature and local papers
furnished. During the last few years special at-
tention has been given to the Deaf Mute Depart-
ment, and that has been a blessing and benefit to
many of this class of pupils. Altogether Utah
may be justly proud of her University and the
efforts made for its advancement and permanency
in the past and present. John R. Park’ M. D.
Principal.

	School Openings—After a few weeks rest and
change the teachers and pupils return from the
mountains, the sea side and the numerous camp-
ing places, refreshed and exhilerated by the sum-

[Column 2]
mers outing to resume the duties and the pleasures
of school life.
	The heat of summer is well nigh spent and
cool nights and pleasant days of early fall are
with us and the eager smiling faces of the children
as they gaily wend their way to and from the
school house show that the task of learning and
the pleasure of meeting old school mates is in-
deed delightful. There are no days so happy or
so full as these and in after years the brightest
spots in memory are the hours of school life.
The schools in Utah are now in excellent con-
dition and if not entirely free—(though in some
parts of the territory they are) have so reasonable
a tution that there should be no excuse for keep-
ing children out. Parents try to allow your
children some school privileges even though it
may be hard for you to spare them. In many
cases families are large and the mother needs her
girls to help with the house duties, while the
father can scarcely spare the boys from the farm
or out door work but the school hours are not
long and every one should have some opportuni-
ties for learning. In some countries education is
compulsory and where parents fail to send their
children during certain years to the schools they
are subject to punishment by law. In this country
the laws are not at all severe on this subject still
it is expected of parents to look to the education
of their children and every one ought at least, at
as early an age as possible to be taught to read and
write, while, of course higher education renders
one more fit for the different branches of labor.
The district schools have mostly nice buldings
splendidly equipped and competent teachers and
are in every way ready for teaching the common
branches of learning and preparing scholars for
the University and higher schools while in many
counties now, there are the Stake Academies
where not only are taught the usual studies, be-
sides literature, drawing, music etc., but Theology
as well. Throughout the territory are well kept
schools and we hope this year they also will be
well filled.

	There is a saying something about "there will
be a great going to and fro in the earth” and that
time has certainly come. With the great con-
veniences on land and water and the wonderful
speed now in which voyages are made it lies
within the power of most every people to travel
from country to country. Kings, Princes and
Potentates alike with their peoples are moving
and wandering around the earth, some for pleas-
ure some for business, some for diplomacy, some
for one thing and some for another but all are
certainly on the go, so to speak, and we wonder
and sometimes smile at the strange and peculiar
manner in which circumstances bring about ac-
quaintances. People who in their own country
might live for years and never see one another
meet abroad on the most cordial terms. While the
Emperor of Germany reviews the English
soldiers with his Royal Gandmother and inspect
the British Men of War with his uncle—The
Prince of Wales,—all with much pomp and
dignity, the Shah of Persia is hob nobbing
around Paris with President Harrison’s son, Rus-
sel, and Edison the wonderful inventor in com-
pany of some most distinguished Americans,
Whitelaw Ried and Chauncy Depew, for instance
are dining with Buffaloe Bill. In fact Buffaloe
Bill known at home, simply as a sensational actor
in his not too popular “Wild West'’ show seems to
be the hero of the day in Paris, that most beauti-
ful and delightful of cities. In all this changing
and moving around our own people are sharing,
and travel is broadening their minds and develop-
ing the character as well as educating and amus-
ing them. Of visitors too we have our share,
daily distinguished people arrive in our territory
and all find at least a few hours tor sightseeing in
this our beautiful city. The Temple, the Taber-


nacle with its wonderful organ, and Pres. Young’s
Grave are the chief points of interest but there
are others too and the stranger always dwells in
admiration on our lovely homes, our shady streets,
our lucious fruits and our delightful climate. The
gates are ever open and whether the stranger
comes to remain or only for a flying visit there
is always a welcome awaiting him.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


ON THE WAY.
	If you could see how long a distance I have
been, you would not wonder that I had not written.
  
	The team is now here and we start in a few
minutes for Panguitch, forty-five miles ride. We
held no meetings in Minersville, Sister Snow
stopped one day to rest. We stopped at Adams-
ville next, with the Sisters. Pres. Murdock was
there,also at Greenville; we had many good meet-
ings, they are small places but alive to their
duties. It poured down with rain as we entered
Greenville, at 3 p. m., but we got to Beaver before
sunset, distance 18 miles. Sunday went to meet
ing, Monday Sisters, Conference all day, a very
good time.
	In the evening the Y. L. and Y. M. I. Conference
also a house full and such lovely singing and some
of the most beautiful girls I ever saw in any
place.
	It is very healthy, I have not seen a feeble
looking child; the aged are mostly the suffer-
ers. 				We	have attended	twelve
meetings including the Young Ladies’and Pri-
maries; the children have all done very well.
Tuesday.
	I am at Pres. Murdock’s. The Stake President
Sister Howd goes with us to Panguitch. Sister
Snow has attended all the meetings here, her
wrist is some lame, that is the worst feature from
that fearful fall.
	God is very good, all has been done for us that
it was possible to do. 		We	stopped
one night with Sister R. W. Tyler, had a good
visit; she sent her love to you; am going to
canvass for the Exponent wherever we go, from
place to place.
			Your Loving Sister,
						Z. D. H. Young.
Beaver City, Aug. 14th 1889.


THE CAUSE OF MIRAGE.
	Emil Sorel, in La Nature, says: “There are
days on which, in certain weather, and despite
the curvature of the earth, the distance of visi-
bility is doubled, or more than doubled. This
phenomenon is explained to us by a well-known
law of physics. If we throw a coin into an empty
vessel, it will be hidden by the edge of the latter,
at a certain distance; but if we fill the vessel with
water, the coin will become visible. We have
here a case of refraction, such as is explained in
elementary works of physics. Every one also
knows the theory of the mirage put forth by the
celebrated Monge, who explained the phenomenon
as due to the diminution of the air’s density in
contact with the super-heated earth. A contrary
theory will explain the mirage at sea. While the
sun is making the atmosphere intensely hot, the
sea and the strata of air in contact therewith re-
main relatively cold, and these strata become
superposed in the order of their density. A
luminous ray emanating from the sea will pass
from one stratum into another of less density,
there will be a refraction, and an object beneath
the horizon will be seen above it This theory
supposes two conditions, to wit, a heating of the
atmosphere, while the sea and the earth remain
relatively cold, and a calmness of it to permit its
strata to become superposed in the order of their


density. It is precisely when these two condi-
tions are fulfilled that the phenomenon of the
mirage occurs.  On such days ships rise instead
of descend in measure as they recede. As the
horizon is perceived by direct visibility, a ship is
finally seen above the horizon as if it were sus-
pended in the air. It is the famous ‘phantom
ship,’ familiar to sailors—a visible ship in its
natural, upright position. If atmospheric condi-
tions were favorable, a second ship would be seen
above the first, etc. Certain mariners worthy of
credence have assured me that they have seen as
many as seven superposed ships.”


A FALSE STEP.
	Perhaps you have made a false step, and have
lost hope in consequence. You probably ex-
aggerate the evil done. Don't fancy that every-
body is talking about it. People have plenty to
think about, and they will not be interested in you
very long. "Try again." Choose a new path,
and cut down the briers, and subdue the obstacles,
which, after all, are only there to test your strength.
You will be happy in doing this, and you will be
respected by all the other plodders in their respec-
tive pathways. Try to keep the sunshine ever 
above you, and the North Star ahead of you, then
cheerfulness and good will be your companions,
and in time you will reach the top, or be a recog-
nized hero or heroine. Success in life depends
upon industry and a determination to succeed.
We should be hopeful, for Hope never ruined any
one, but despondency has sent many a poor soul
to its grave. "it is better to rub than rust—it
is better to hope than pine," the poet says.
"Character is like cloth, if white it can be dyed
black; but once blackened, it cannot be dyed
white. 
						MATTIE W.


[Column 1]
	﻿LEAVES FROM MY JOURNAL.
		BY M. J. TANNER.
			[Continued.]
	Monday June 15, 1885. Out again: How
I love to travel: It seems to infuse fresh vigor
in my life. Everything is new and novel, and
there is an excitement in it that is very fasci-
nating. The country is pleasant and the
scenery constantly changing. The houses we
pass are all built of frame and painted white.
The latest style is olive-green trimmed with
red. Here is one pea-green and a slate-colored
one. Many houses are poor looking and have
no paint. On, on we go, past farms and sta-
tions. Here the land is rocky. Large piles of
stones are scattered about where they have been
gathered from off the land, and grass and
weeds form a border around them. It is in-
teresting to see the people who get on the train
at different towns. Cousin Emily and I were
weighed while waiting at the depot. I weighed
117 lbs. Gained about 8 lbs., since leaving
home.
	Rochester, 10 a. m. More like the eastern
cities judging by the depot. Thickly settled,
high houses, covered depot, buildings all of 
brick. I am so busy taking notes that I do
not notice that every one has left the car un-
til a man tells me that I must change cars here.
I look around and see that I am the only per-
son left, gather up my things in haste and get
on another car as directed. I seat myself and
in looking over my belongings find that I have
left my parasol. It is too late to get it now for
the car is moving. I once more take out my
note book and pencil. 
	Near Lyons, pleasantly situated on a hill, is 
a large brick building which is pointed out to
me as an asylum for idiots. And here is Lyons. 
11 a. m., of which little can be seen as we run
[Column 2]
in between two rows of freight cars. The car
is full and I have as a seat mate a gentleman
who has traveled all night coming from
Chicago, he is sleeping and I have no one to
tell me about the country.
	Syracuse 12.15. Twenty minutes for dinner.
I have my lunch and eat it on the train as do
some others. I see by the sign that it is 130
miles to Schenectady. Syracuse is a large city
but there is little to be seen from the depot,
and one cannot tell much about people and
places on so slight an acquaintance. I can look
into the dining room and see the people eating.
Collared waiters are passing straw-berries.
Some ladies are walking on the platform
dressed in lovely costumes. As we start out
we pass through what appears to be Main
Street. On each side are very high brick
houses, and a continuous line of stores, mil-
linery shops, business houses and churches. 
Near the suburbs stands "Wards Temperance
Hotel.” It looks small and poorly patronized.
Out in the country, we pass large hop farms.
	Oneida 1.20 p. m. There is a beautiful lawn
around the depot and the word Oneida laid in
white cobble stones.
	Rome, 1.55. Here people crowd on the 
train, more than there are seats for. The
weather is hot. My neighbor gives his seat to
a lady.
	Utica, 2.20. Here several people leave the 
train. 3.15. We are traveling through Herkimer
Co., celebrated for its large dairies. Through
the valley of the Mohawk River. It is a 
beautiful country. Change cars at Schenectady.
getting a ticket to Caldwell where they tell me
I will have to stay all night and go down the
lake on a steamboat in the morning to Balton.
I meet a  pleasant young lady who is going to
Caldwell and tells me something about the
route and what hotel to stay at in Caldwell.
The face of the country changes. Ballstown
seems burried in hills and woods.
	Saritoga. Change cars, waiting about half
an hour. Here at the depot is the "United
States Hotel,” the largest house I think I ever
saw. The two sides which we see from the
platform reach a block each way. I walk down
the road to the corner and find that it extends
along the third side of the block. I am afraid
to take time to explore any farther. Many
people get off here for it is a famous resort for
the world of fashion and must, no doubt allure
many adventurers. I think I should not like
to stay here. We travel on and change cars
at Fort Edward where I part with my com-
panion. The country grows more hilly and
thicker wooded as we go on.
	Glens Falls—Caldwell.  Here is the end of
the road, for we are at the head of the beautiful
and far famed Lake George, and twilight is 
gathering around us. A steamboat stands at
the landing which connects with depot but it
will not go until morning. It is 8 o'clock and
I turn to go toward the cab stand after getting
the above information. I see a big, burly,
pleasant looking man in an old felt hat, look-
ing something after the fashion of the boys hats
at home, with the rim lapped down, holding a
whip in his hand. I take him for a cabby and
ask which cab will take me to the American
Hotel. He says he does not know, and I pass
 on. I wish I had asked him if he knows any-
one by the name of Putney. Still it would be
useless as they will not expect me until I reach
Balton where they will be sure to meet me to-
morrow. But Oh, how I do hate to stop at a
hotel among strangers. I feel so shrinking and
diffident away off here alone. If the boat had
only gone down tonight how nice it would
have been. However there is no time now for
regrets, I must hasten to secure a cab before
they are gone. It would not be pleasant walk-
ing through town in search of a hotel. I reach
the line of cabs and ask for the American 
Hotel. A cabby takes my satchel and seats


[Column 1]
﻿me in the last cab on the line. Several delays
occur and finally we are just starting out when
a voice from the outside asks if Mrs. Myron
Tanner is in here. I say that is my name and
ask if he has come for me. He replies that
he has and I get out of the cab thinking at
the time that the American Hotel has lost one
customer. He tells me to wait on the plat-
form while he brings the horse around. I recog-
nize in him the man I spoke to on the platform.
Presently he appears with a buckboard of
ancient and uncertain appearance drawn by a
horse which to ride after might lay one liable to
prosecution for cruelty to animals My heart
fails me for a moment and I feel that possibly
I am in a “delima.” However, I yield to the
force of circumstances and allow him to help
me into the vehicle and while we are being
whirled away he very politely informes me
that he is Caleb. I am glad to hear it and
kindly enquire what our relationship may be.
He says he is Caleb Putney son of my husband’s
Aunt Maria, and tells me that he has a brother
and two sisters. In the meantime darkness
is gathering around us and we have a ride of
ten miles before us. I enquire if the road is
good and receive an affirmative answer. There
is no moon and the sky is cloudy, as we enter
the woods and drive between rows of tall trees
it is sometimes so dark that we cannot see the
horse. We necessarily travel rather slowly,
and our long and somewhat lively conversation
is frequently interrupted by an apostraphy to
the horse. “Get up there you old lazy if you
don’t go faster I shall have to whip you dread-
ful hard.”
	I am asked many questions about Utah and
in return for information given am made ac-
quainted with the history of the family at home.
There had been a family council held about
coming to meet me. “Father” said I would
come up on the boat in the morning and they
would meet me at the landing. But he thought
I would not like to stay at a hotel among
strangers, which I assure him I was decidedly
averse to.
	The seat of our conveyance has scarcely any
back and he is very anxious lest I should go
to sleep and fall off, and what shall he do with
me if I fall and break my neck. Box me up
and send me back to Utah, I say, but he
would rather send me back alive, and so en-
joines me to be very careful not to fall, even
offering, if I think there is any danger, to hold
me on. Whenever there is a lull in the con-
versation he enquires if I am sleepy and en-
joines me not to fall off. I am certainly not
sleepy. The situation is so novel, the surround-
ings so strange and the air so bracing after the
hot day’s ride, and the conversation of my
companion so (what shall I say) exhilerating
that altogether I seem possessed of a spirit of
fun, and almost fancy myself a girl again.
	I learn that he is the only one of his fathers
children that has married though David and
Rebecka are both older than he. That he has
five children living and has burried one. That
his girls are dreadful good singers. That his
mother is a dreadful good woman. That his
horse is dreadful poor. Father would not let
his horse come because it was afraid of the
train. He has no horse, but a yoke of cattle
and the boy claims them. He also has some
sheep and the boy claims them. I see some
water and ask if that is Lake George. No
that is only “the pond.” He will take me to
Lake George in the morning. I hear a coarse
grum voice and ask “what is that?” Why!
that is a bull-frog. Did I never hear a bull-
frog before? I supposed I never had if that
was the kind of noise they made. Our frogs in
Utah made a different noise. They were a
small green frog. “Am I afraid?” “Oh no,
not of a bull-frog.” But I am beginning to
think the ride “dreadful” long, for I am
getting “dreadful” tired. He thinks it must
[Column 2]
be getting dreadful late and wonders if the girls
will be up. We get home at last, 11.15 p. m.
find the girls up and supper waiting. We sit
down to supper and he asks the blessing. The
first blessing I have heard since leaving home,
though my friends all profess religion. It gives
me a very comfortable homelike feeling. His
father gets up to welcome me and after supper
I am shown to a clean comfortable room and I
go to rest feeling that I am among friendly,
good people. Caleb’s home is a mile farther.
	Balton June 16,1885.—Get up late this
morning feeling weary after my long ride. I
am introduced to Caleb’s mother, who is a tall
slim elderly woman, very quiet and pleasant in
her ways. She gives me a kind welcome and
is glad to see one of her sister’s family. The
men are all gone to their work and after
breakfast Rebecka, or as she is called in the
family, Becky Ann goes down to the pond
with me. It is called the Trout Lake, and is
a pretty body of water two miles long and half
a mile wide surrounded with trees. Their home
is only a short distance from the bank but
owing to the thick growth of bushes we cannot
see it from the house. I think I should like to
see the frog that makes such a great noise but
he is rather shy and we cannot find one.  We
take a walk in the woods and pick winter-
green. The fragrant leaves of which are tender
and sweet, the berries are nearly gone but now
and then a red berry rewards our search.
	After dinner Caleb comes over and gets his
father’s horse and buggy and takes me to Lake
George. It is a pleasant ride through the
woods of about two and a half miles. The
country here is all hills, and woods, with here
and there a rock thrown in. The rock is black
granite and ranges from the size of a trunk to
the size of a house, or as the boy said “about
as big as a lump of chalk,” which may be quite
as definite. We call at the old homestead
that Father Tanner used to own, and where
my husband was born. The lady of the
house, Mrs. Vandenberg is very pleasant and
shows us through all the rooms and tells us the
alterations that have been made. The kitchen
and woodshed, (everybody here has a wood-
shed well filled with stove wood) has been
taken from the west side and built on the
south end, making the whole house face the
street which runs east of the house, between it
and the Lake. The portico is taken away and
a porch built the whole length, which makes a
lovely place to sit in the afternoon, with the
beautiful lake spread out before us and the
mountains, thickly covered with trees on the
opposite side. The house has been newly
weatherboarded and painted white. Since
Father Tanner left there with his family fifty
years ago, considerable of the land has been
sold in small lots and quite a village now
stands on what used to be known as the Tanner
Farm. A large hotel stands on the bank of
the lake a few rods east of the house, known
as the “Balton House,” and a steamboat land-
ing is made there. Mrs. V. takes me down to
the lake and shows me through the hotel.
From the observatory we have a fine view of
the surrounding country. She invites me to
spend a few days with her and visit various
points of interest. We go from there and call
on Morgan Tanner, a grandson of my hus-
band’s uncle, Pardon Tanner. He is of medium
size, dark complexion with keen black eyes,
about thirty years of age and a widower. I
tell him I am looking up family history and he
promises to help me all he can. From there
we go to Green Island. It once belonged to
the Tanner estate. It is now laid out in parks
and groves and a fine hotel, and some cottages
are built there as it is a fashionable summer
resort. It comprises sixty-five acres of land;
has a steamboat landing and is connected with
the mainland by a bridge. It is called the
Sagamore, and is certainly a lovely summer
[Column 3]
retreat. Little boats are kept there for rowing
on the lake, which is certainly a very pleasant
pastime. A steamboat comes puffing toward
the landing and our horse gets restive, so we
get in the buggy and start for home. She
trots nicely while she hears the engine and we
think it would be well to have a steamboat be-
hind us all the way. We stop at the post-
office to get some stamps and mail some letters.
Caleb introduces me to several of his friends
and they all have some joke to make about
Utah. It rains a little before we get home.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


R. S., Y. L. M. I. A., AND P. A. REPORTS

BEAVER STAKE.
EDITOR WOMAN'S EXPONENT:
     The stake conference of the R. S. convened
August 12th, in the L. D. S. Meeting house,
Beaver City.  President Lucinda Howd pre-
siding.
     After the opening exercises the presidents of
the various branches gave their reports,showing
that a portion of the sisters are alive to their
duties and helping to care for the poor and
sick.
     Sisters Zina Young and Minerva Snow being
present addressed the conference both forenoon
and afternoon.
     Sister Zina Young was happy to meet with
the sisters. “It is a duty to meet together and
if we wish to live happy we must make our
duties our pleasures.  We are the daughters
of God and we must acknowledge His good-
ness and mercy.  We must be filled with in-
tegrity toward Him for it is worth more than
the riches of this world as it will lead us back
into the presence of God.  We must be united
and make our homes happy and pleasant.  We
are weaving the web of life and we must try
to make it smooth and beautiful without slip-
knots or ragged edges.  Be pure and chaste in
our thoughts and actions.  Never indulge in
envy, hate, or any ugly feeling, as such things
are opposed to the spirit of God.
     Our children must be tested as we are being
tested and we must fortify them with good
principle.  Fill up their minds with good so
there will not  be room for the bad.” Speaker
read the 13th Chap. of 1st Corrinthians on
charity, and commented at some length show-
ing the beauty of that principle.  The revela-
tion given to Emma Smith through Joseph the
Seer, in Harmony, Susquehanna Co., Penn.,
July, 1830, was also read. “These things
teach us to beware of vanity and pride and
cleave unto the covenants we have made.  I
would rather suffer death than to miss the asso-
ciation of my husband in the eternal world.”
Speaker referred to many grand principles and
keys and showed how it is only by being
humble, wise, pure, and faithful in the things
of God that we can receive an exaltation.
     Sister Minerva Snow felt rather weak in con-
sequence of the accident she had received but
was thankful she was able to be present.  Ac-
knowledged the hand of God and said Sister
Zina had been called by the priesthood to
preside over the Relief Societies throughout
the world and her counsel was dictated by the
spirit of God. “We have been sent here to fill
a mission and if we desire to fill it to the honor
and glory of our Heavenly Father we must
not spend our time in idleness.  Remember
God in the days of prosperity and He will not 
forget us in the hours of darkness.”
     Spoke of outside influences and the attempts
of our enemies to lead our children astray
through their love of pleasure.  We must
teach our children to pray, to resist tempta-
tion and to keep their spirits and bodies pure.
Throw around them the arms of love and
kindness and teach them to lean upon God.
     We are blessed above all women upon the
face of the earth.  We have been organized


into these associations and have covenanted
with God to discharge certain obligations
therein.  Hence what manner of women ought
we to be?  We ought to be clothed with purity,
charity and humility; being diligent in keep-
ing every commandment of God that we may
be a pattern to those around us.
     Be united for it is union that will bind the
power of the adversary.  We are called to a
high and holy calling and we must be humble
in the hands of God that we may work for the
salvation of mankind.  Sister Snow bore her
testimony to the truth, and rejoiced even in
persecution as it proved that the day of re-
demption is near.
     Stake counsellor E. H. Bennett desired to be
an instrument in the hands of God for doing
good.  Spoke of the responsibilities of mothers.
Bore her testimony and thought if we would
put into practice the teachings of Sisters
Young and Snow and live up to our privileges
we would be saved and exalted.
     Stake counsellor Bro. M. L. Shepherd spoke
a short time with regard to the training of our
children.  Thought we ought not to neglect
their minds in order to adorn their bodies.
Keep them from the street, instil correct prin-
ciples into them and also a love for knowledge
and they will fill their high destiny to become
noble and great in the kingdom of God.
     President Howd rejoiced in the teachings
we have received and  bore testimony to the
divinity and greatness of the work in which
we are engaged.
	The conference was adjourned for three
months.
     The sisters of Beaver have enjoyed a rich
treat in the visit of Sisters Young and Snow,
and feel thankful they have health and
strength to travel and labor among the sisters
and impart such wise, judicious, and timely
counsel.
     The accident to Sister Snow resulted from
her being thrown from the carriage by the
horses running away just as they were enter-
ing Minersville.  She was picked up insensi-
ble but, by the blessing of the Lord, recovered
so far in a day or two as to continue her
journey.
			LOUISA JONES, Stake Sec.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


THE YOUNG WOMAN’S JOURNAL.

	After careful consideration it is now proposed
to establish a monthly magazine, containing the
highest thoughts, brightest fancies, and the
most elevating ideas of the Daughters of
Zion.
	The Magazine, of which Sister Susa Young
Gates (“Homespun”) will be the Editor, will
contain thirty-two pages of reading matter, and
will be divided into departments.
     First: Literary.  Second: A department for
the publication of the best essays produced in
the various Associations throughout the
country.  Third:  A department of health and
hygiene.  Fourth:  A household department.
Fifth:  A dress department.  Sixth A depart-
ment presided over by the General Presidency
of the Y. L. M. I. A., through which they may
speak to the young sisters, announce appoint-
ments, and give advice and counsel.
	This in brief is the plan of the proposed pub-
lication.  It is designed to issue the first num-
ber October 1st, 1889.  The price of subscrip-
has been placed at $2.00 a year.
     The General Presidency of the Y. L. M. I. A.
Elmina S. Taylor, Maria Young Dougall,
Mattie Horne Tingey, will have a general
supervision of the matter.


The Young Woman’s Christian Association
of Chicago propose to build an addition to their
home at a cost of $20,000.


[Column 1]﻿
WESTMINSTER ABBEY.
BY J. C. KITTREDGE.
AISLE OF MUSIC.
	Among others we took particular note of
the statues of Handel and Francis Burney,
the father of Fanny Burney, and the author
of a history of music.
THE NAVE.
	The nave of Westminster Abbey is exten-
sive and imposing. Its length is one hundred
and sixty-six feet, and its breadth seventy-
one feet and nine inches. The most promi-
nent monument in this section is that to Sir
Isaac Newton. It is located at the extreme
eastern end of the nave. The philosopher is
represented in a sitting position, leaning upon
a pile of books. A large globe is above, and
near by are two cupids, or angels, represent-
ing inspiration, or something of the kind.
Ben Jonson was buried in the nave, in an up-
right position, it is said.
“O, rare Ben Jonson!
	In the northwest corner is a monument to
Charles James Fox. In the baptistry Words-
worth is remembered. On the opposite side
lies Livingstone, the African explorer. Ameri-
 can revolutionary affairs were brought to
mind as we looked at the statue of Major
Andre. In the south aisle of the choir is a
statue to Isaac Watts, dated 1794, and one to
John and Charles Wesley.
	Imagination paints the time, in the future,
when this great church will be a ruin, as the
Perthenon and the Coliseum are to day;
when pilgrims will go thither from all parts
of the world, and will gaze, in many cases
vaguely, on those crumbling monuments of
the past. Long after that time will be seen
what is the permanence and efficacy of good
literature, for when the great abbey and its
contents shall have disappeared the words and
thoughts of Shakspeare, Milton, Byron, and
Carlyle will still exist.
THE CHARTER HOUSE.
	The chapter house at Westminster Abbey
is a place of exceptional note, as the house of
lords once sat there during a period of more
than three hundred years. A rather strange
place, one would say, for a political body to
hold its sittings! The chapter house (or house
of the chapter, or body) of a cathedral is the
place where all the business of the church is
conducted. Great laws treating of civil and
religious liberty were made there. On the
table of this chapter house was placed the
“Black Book,” the decree of Henry VII
against monasteries. There was an advance
toward clearer light—the pulling away of
weeds which were growing about the altar;
work which was so bravely began by Luther.
CHAPEL OF PYX.
	This chapel comes next in order. There
the ancient jewels were kept. The iron-bound
chests which contained them can still be found.
The only object of importance at present is
the standard of gold and silver.
THE LIBRARY.
	This apartment is a creation of compara-
tively modern days, as it was founded in 1620.
As readers recollect, Washington Irving has
facetiously described it in the “Sketch Book,”
in the article entitled “The Mutability of
Literature.”	
THE INFIRMARY.
	There the sick monks were nursed, and
the bad ones whipped.
MUNIMENT ROOM AND TRIFORIUM.
	In this room are kept the archives of the

[Column 2]
abbey, in curious old chests. A fine view of
the church can be had from the triforium.
JERUSALEM CHAMBER.
	Perhaps the most noteworthy circumstance
connected with this place is that Henry VII
died here. Shakspeare thus describes the
circumstance:

King Henry—Laud be to God! even there my life must
	end.
It hath been prophesied to me many years,
I should not die but in Jerusalem;
Which vainly I supposed the Holy Land.
But bear me, to that chamber, there I’ll lie,
In that Jesusalem shall Harry die.

But we must not leave the place without
refering to the Westminster assembly and the
making of the famous catechism.
		WESTMINSTER SCHOOL.
	This institution of learning, which is an
annex of the abbey, was founded by Henry
III and was endowed by Elizabeth in 1560.
It is one of the prominent educational houses
of the country, and is on a line with Eaton
and Harrow. Many quaint old customs are
retained at this place, as at the others. Among
them is a curious old game played by
the students. It consists of tossing a cake
over a bar, and the student who catches it
intact and takes it to the head-master
gets a guinea. Many reminiscences and as-
sociations are connected with this establish-
ment.
THE MONASTERY. 
	In former times the monastery extended
far beyond the present limits. Sir Walter
Raleigh was imprisoned in the monastery on
the night previous to his execution. Prisoners
were kept in the gate house. Hampden was
placed there, and Jeffry Hudson, the dwarf,
died there, accused of having participated in
the popish plot.  The brave little fellow was
he who is so felicitously described in Scott’s
“Peveril of the Peak.”	
THE SANCTUARY,
	It was in the sanctuary of Westminster that
the family of Edward IV were confined by
the order of Richard III. There the widow
Elizabeth bade adieu to her son Richard,
whence he departed to the tower, never to
return. There also she received news of the
murder of the princes.
THE ALMONRY.
	There stands Caxton’s printing press. As
the reader remembers, it was during the
reign of Edward IV that the art of printing
was introduced into England. From the seed
then sown what a vast forest has spung up!
There is an interesting picture somewhere,
representing the king and family visiting
Caxton. The latter is showing them the won-
ders of the invention. At that time it was
doubtless one of the marvels of the earth.
THE KING'S JEWEL HOUSE.
	There are the old standards of weights and
measures and the Elizabethan ell and yard.
To-day in the United States, as is well known,
there is an officer elected annually who is
called “sealer of weights and measures,” whose
function is to adjust the same. Correct scales
and measures are kept in the town hall, and
defective ones are corrected by them. Probably
those at Westminister were the original ones.
Thus, upon examination, we see that almost
every law and regulation under which we live
had its original sway in the remote past of
England. Every true American should recog-
nize this fact.
	Acts of parliament nor declarations of inde-


pendence cannot entirely dismember England
from the United States.  In language, morals,
sentiment and race they are identical.  At this
place there was a custom in the olden time for
the sheriff to count sixty-one nails in a horse-
shoe, as a proof of education, as only well in-
structed men could count sixty-one.  This in-
cident is instructive, too, showing as it does
what advances have been made in learning.
		   [To be continued.]


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


ALL AROUND THE HOUSE.

	It has often been affirmed that woman is the
inspirer, not the creator, of art;  but what-
ever part she may sustain either in its origin
or in its advancement, it cannot be denied
that in the field of what we understand as
domestic art, she stands in the foremost ranks.
If not the executor, she is the designer, of the
many ornamental trifles that characterize her
home.  Trifles they are, and while we assemble
the wealth of tidies, lamp shades, table covers,
teacozies and the like, under that general head,
few of us fail to acknowledge that these same
are the key notes of home ornamentation.
	Fancy work--the term is frequently used in
derision; yet, let the same man who describes
it go into a house, however beautiful by the
art of the upholsterer and profesional decora-
tor, and he is moved to exclaim, "It is beauti-
ful, but it needs touches here and there."
Perhaps he does not himself recognize what
these same are.  They are nothing, yet every-
thing, and they are the products of deft
fingers, stimulated by home affection.  Domes-
tic-art-needle-work holds at present a high
position, and not for the first time, by any
means.  The good dames of all ages have
been wont to break the tedium of their days
by fashioning useful decorative conceits; from
time to time, however, as other pursuits sprang
into favor, the housework would languish.  It
is claimed that the present impetus has been
given it by women of true artistic tempera-
ments, who bring to their work an interest, to-
gether with an originality, that make it of
unusual importance.
					Courrier Journal.


THE TRAINING OF CHILDREN.

	The chief difficulty with those who have the
management of children lies in the fact that
they have not yet learned to manage them-
selves.  The training of a child has to do with
its well-being physically, intellectually, and
religiously, and only one who is himself
properly trained in these matters is capable of
directing another.
	 It is a lamentable fact that two-thirds of the
people we meet are chronic invalids; seldom
down sick perhaps, but never well; never in a
condition to enjoy without painful reaction
what should be the natural activity of mind
and muscle.  They undertake but little, ac-
complish less; are never equal to an emer-
gency, and, in fact, get from their lives a small
amount of the enjoyment which is their due.
How much of this is owing to mismanagement
in childhood, it becomes each parent's duty to
inquire.
	All parents should understand enough about
physiology to be able to deal wisely with their
children's bodies from the beginning, and to
teach this important study to them as soon as
they are old enough to comprehend.  Many
important branches are taught in the schools,
but physiology, if taught at all, is not done in
that whole-souled manner it is the parents'
duty and privilege to do at home.  If this mat
ter was properly attended to, there would be
fewer nervous, dyspeptic men and women


dragging wearily through life, a burden to
themselves and those around them.  "A sound
mind in a sound body" is a thing of wonderful
capabilities.  A child thus endowed is con-
stantly upon the lookout for information.  It
finds it in the conversation of its parents.  The
companionship of a cultivated person is a
powerful educator.  If, unfortunately, the
parent, owing to circumstances which sur-
rounded his youth, is not, in this respect, what
he wishes his child to be, he must put forth
every energy of mind and body to overcome
these defects.  He will find it hard work; in-
deed he can never be "as one to the manner
born."  But he can do a great deal toward
fitting himself to be such a companion for his
child as he could wish him to have.
	More important than all else is the religious
training of children. Few people, of whatever
profession, would purposely, or even willingly,
keep their sons and daughters in ignorance of
Him through whom "we live, move and have
our being;" but how may one teach another
who has not himself been taught?  "Be what
you would have your child to be," touches a
parent's experience at every point, and only
when we have learned and appropriated this
important maxim, shall we know how to train
our children.
				The Phrenological Journal.


The leading spirit of Santa Ynez, Cal., is
said to be Miss A. J. Hails, a Massachusetts
school-teacher.  She went there several years
ago, nearly dead with consumption.  She now
teaches the village school, superintends the
Sunday school and the W. C. T. U., and is the
force behind every good word and work.


OBITUARIES.

	Died at Alpine, Arizona, on the 28th of June 1889, after
a painful illness of six weeks duration, Lois Emily, only
daughter of Lois Hamblin and Hubert Burk.
	Deceased was born Jan 1. 1876.  She was a regular at-
tendant of the Sabbath School, Y. L. and Primary
Associations, and held the office of Treasurer in the
Sabbath School and Primary.
	Her parents have the sympathy of their many friends in
this sad bereavement, this being the fifth time they have
been called to mourn the loss of a dear one taken from
their little flock
	The remains of her grandfather Jacob Hamblin, were
removed from Pleasanton, during her illness, to be in-
terred in this place.  She often expressed a desire to be
well enough to attend his funeral, but was called home
before the arrival of the remains.
	Just previous to her death a holy peace seemed to per-
vade her tired being, and she spoke in endearing terms to
her departed Grandfather as if he were present, and closed
her weary eyes in sweet slumber to awake no more till the
great last day, when we all hope to meet the dear
ones gone before
								E. B C.

	Died in Teasdale Ward August the 4th, 1889.  Lovina
C. Pritchett, beloved wife of Thomas M. Pritchett and
daughter of Thomas and Ann Heninger, born at Burks
Garden, Farzwell Co., Virginnia.  Was Baptized a mem-
ber of the Church of Latter-day Saints Sept. 1862, gathered
with the Saints, Sept. 1866.  Received her blessings in the
House of God in 1868.  Sister Lovina has had delicate
health for years; was the mother of four living children, was
in every way worthy of the name of a Latter-day Saint.  A
true, faithful, loving wife, an affectionate mother, a kind
friend.
	On the first of this month she was present at Relief
Society, the meeting having been held at the house of a
friend, where she was visiting, for her convenience.  She
was full of faith in the principles of the Gospel and lived
consistent with the same; died as she had lived in hope of
a glorious Ressurrection with the just, leaving a daughter,
and loving husband who cherish her memory and mourn
their loss.
									J. S. C.


TICKETS
ON SALE
TO ALL
PRINCIPAL POINTS
	EAST,  WEST,
NORTH and SOUTH
		AT
UNION TICKET OFFICE,
	Main Street, Salt Lake City.
C. E. INGALLS,	J. V. PARKER,
	City pass. Agt.	Div. Pass. Agt

R. K. THOMAS
EAGLE EMPORIUM
SALT LAKE CITY.
The Leading Retail
Cash House.
R. K. THOMAS

Special to the Ladies.
AT TEASDEL’S
Will be found the latest styles and productions
in
LACES,  RUCHES,  EMBRODERIES,
FANS,  GLOVES,  PARASOLS,
RIBBONS,  COLLARS,  TIES
And an elegant assortment of
DRY GOODS.
Special department for Ladies’ Misses’ and In-
fant's Shoes.
		112, 114, 116, 118 East Temple Street

DR.   MAGGIE   C.   SHIPP
		Will commence a class in
	OBSTETRICS AND NURSING
		On Monday, October 14,  '89.
Course, Six Months.    Tuition,  $50.00.
	For further particulars address
				DR.  M.  C.  SHIPP,
					34  S. Seventh East Street.

	DAVID  JAMES  &  CO.
TINNERS GAS, WATER & STEAM FITTERS
	Agent for RUMSEY'S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from
the country promptly responded to.
	Address, DAVID JAMES. Box 306, SALT LAKE CITY.


WOMAN'S  EXPONENT.
		The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.
