Vol. 18.                SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, MARCH 1, 1890.            No. 19.


CONTENTS.

	The Prophet Joseph Smith.—S. L. Partridge.
Hephzibah.  Miscellaneous. Schools of Music.
W. S. A. Emery Co.  A Noble Woman.—A. E.
A.  Banquet to Miss Anthony.—Ex. Views on
Courtship and Marriage.—Dr. George Thomas
Dowling.
	EDITORIAL:—The Days of the Judges.  Edi-
torial Notes.  Washington Convention.  Some of
Miss Anthony’s Views.  A Nauvoo Woman.  For
the Time Being.—C. W.  All Nations in One.—
Bird Robison.
	POETRY:—Turning Backward.—L.M.Hewlings.
My Own.—Ellen Jakeman.  To My Husband’s
Mother.—Lula. To Susan B. Anthony.—Amarala
Martin.  A Sad Bereavement.  Obituaries.


FOR THE EXPONENT:
		TURNING BACKWARD,

			BY L. M. HEWLINGS.

	I went back to the dear old homestead,
		After twenty long years had past,
	And from friends by the score then counted,
		Whose warm hands in my own were clasped
	As with eyes then tearfully moistened,
		With a sincere feeling of heart—
	As the fervent "God Bless you" was spoken,
		When the time had arrived to part.

	I sent an evangel before me,
		Not wishing to give a surprise,
	And thought of the hosts that would greet me,
		With glad cheers that would rend the skies,
	While for over an hour I waited
		With the daylight close on the wane,
	And the heavens above storm-freighted
		To clasp hands with old friends again.
	But I found at length to my sorrow,
		I had reckon’d without my host,
	For here, I was merely a stranger,
		Or a traveling man at most.
	All found on my fingers were counted,
		Tho' I searched the whole township o’er,
	And from the dear old place disheartened,
		I have turned to ramble no more.—


MY OWN.

Come Poet, lend your golden harp to me:
	I fain would tell her now that life is done,
What all these years lay hidden in my heart.
	Bride of my soul; Helena, peerless one!

When o'er the green sward as a tiny child,
	With ribbons blue, and curls like golden wings,
She seemed a bird escaped from paradise,
	I loved her then above all earthly things.

Her gentle maidenhood, as pure as snow,
	Embodied all my holiest dreams of heaven.
The truest, deepest love earth ever knew,
	A man's eternal love, to her was given.
	
Her gifted mind, and glorious womanhood,
	Were sweet translations of a perfect life.
Dumb, and distrustful of myself, I stood,
	And mad with anguish, saw her made a wife.

I could have borne it better, if her mate
	Had been a fitting spouse for such as She.
He trampled, as the dust beneath his feet,
	The precious life that was pure gold to me.

I saw her cheek grow thin, her dear eyes dim,
	Her shoulders stoop beneath a load of care;
Her step grow slow, and hopes bright ensign died,
	And threads of white shone in her golden hair.


Today I saw her buried; where the snow,
	In eddying drifts piled high the frozen ground.
And felt that death had canceled every vow,
	That she was mine, who lay beneath that mound.

And, oh! if Heaven is Heaven, and love is love,
	And Faith and Patience fair requital know,
Through boundless realms of light, My Own, My Own!
	Led by the hand of God, we two shall go.
							ELLEN JAKEMAN.


THE PROPHET JOSEPH SMITH

	My Dear Young Brothers and Sisters:
Having had the blessed privilege of being
acquainted with the Prophet Joseph Smith, in
my childhood, and, having been requested to
write a few lines on the subject, I cheerfully
comply. I will say the remembrance of the
influence, the spirit and kindness, made a
more lasting impression upon my mind, than
did the features of the man; at the time of
the assassination of the Prophet I was nearly
seven years old; my thoughts have often dwelt
upon the firm manner in which he bore the
trials and persecutions which were continually
heaped upon him by his enemies, and my
earliest reccollection of him are of seeing him
at my father’s house, trying to keep out of the
sight of his enemies who were seeking him
night and day, that they might destroy him;
sometimes he would enter in haste, without
knocking; at another time perhaps, I would go
into the room, and find him sitting there.
I would not know how or when he came there,
and I cannot describe to you the thrill of joy
which runs through my whole being to day
when I think of the Savior’s love for little
children, similar to which Joseph’s love for
children would be shown by placing his hand
on my head or lovingly drawing me towards
him, take me upon his knee and kiss me, and
though the child has become a woman nearly
fifty three years old, the remembrance of the
spirit which attended that great man is fresh
in her memory never to be erased. It seems a
sacred subject to me, and though many years
have passed I cannot talk on it without being
moved to tears. Is it any wonder my friends
that from my heart I can bear testimony to
you to day, that he was truly a Prophet of God
with a power and influence about him which
could be felt even by a little child. My young
brothers and sisters as you grow older, study
the life and spirit of our Savior Jesus Christ,
and also of the Prophet Joseph Smith; you
will find the same spirit of love and self-sacri-
fice actuating both. We read in the Hymn
that “Millions shall know brother Joseph
again.” And we firmly believe it. Let me
entreat you then, in your youth to lay a
foundation of good works, that whenever you
may be called to enter the spirit world you
may find yourselves among the happy number
of those who have the privilege of enjoying
his society throughout the ages of eternity.
					S. L. PARTRIDGE.
	President of the Primary Association 6th
Ward Provo.


In conversation we should talk, not to please
ourselves, but to gratify or instruct others.
This would make us consider whether what we
are about to say will be worth hearing; whether
there be wit or sense in it; and whether it is
adapted to the time, the place and the company.


HEPHZIBAH.
XVI.
Sweet April, with her lovely smiling face,
		Shining thro' tears fair as the rainbow's sheen,
	Gentle and charming, with a winsome grace,
		Decks all her courtly train in living green.
	The month of April opened in the little un
pretending country town of which we have
been talking with a great deal of unusual ac-
tivity. The fitting up of wagons and teams with
provisions and clothing for the Far West was
an event of special importance in those days
to the quiet stay-at-home people, and the
neighbors, friends and relatives had much to
say in disapproval. The very heart of the
town seemed to be moving when this goodly
company took up their journey. But as from
time immemorial it has ever been so it proved
in this case, the excitement and hubbub, "the
nine days wonder," subsided and things settled
down again to the utmost quietude, though it
may be as well to state here that the village
never became afterwards what it had been in
other days, for many of the very best and bright-
est men and women went with that little band
of Pilgrims and their places were not filled.
	It was the time of year when the woods and
groves and meadows were full of music, and
all nature was donning her beautiful vestments
of early Spring; the charms and attractions of
this happy season can never be fitly expressed
in words, the hearts, the soul, all that is best,
purest and highest yearns to burst the narrow
bounds that confine the human mind, and in
a language only understood in feeling and
longing sing with the birds on the topmost
bough of the tallest tree, or climb the highest
mountain peak to pour forth in a flood of soul-
music the exuberance that wells up and fills
to overflowing the great heart of nature.
	Hephzibah Hathaway young as she was felt
the bursting of buds, the leaping of fountains,
the springing of tender grasses, the perfume of 
violets, the frangrance of lilacs and the aroma
of the pine woods, as one feels the influence of
a joy that surpasses all description. Her
whole being was enraptured or one might say
en rapport with the condition of nature. She 
was not then conscious of the intense sympathy
which she afterwards knew existed in her soul
with the great universe.
	She was so much in love with these influences
and objects that what was said to her of practi-
cal life made little impression, and the days
flew round and the time for her departure ar-
rived before she had made the least mental
preparation. Then followed another scene of
parting, breaking away from scenes and places
so dear and so beloved. Another fond and
lingering farewell to those precious ones beneath
the maternal roof and to go again among utter
strangers;—for the time she had almost forgot
ten her books so absorbed was she in the haunts
of her childhood, but one fine morning, the 
dew yet fresh on the soft clinging, tangled
grass, she marched down the long lane to the
roadside, where her trunk had been carried to
wait the stage, mother and children all around
her, and without any outward demonstration
of regret, though a great sob was in her throat,
she said her adieux. 
The mother was less composed, "Hepsie my
dear child" she said almost at the last moment,
"you will not forget to pray that you may
remain steadfast to the faith you have em-


[Column 1]
braced and pray daily morning and evening
that you may be preserved from temptation to
renounce the principles of truth, for I know
and testify to you that this Gospel we have
accepted is the only one that will secure to us
eternal life." Hepsie was not so firm as her
mother wished, but she promised to try and do
all in her power to keep in the right path and
not listen to the false statements and reports
that were circulated about Joseph Smith and
his followers.
	The ponderous old stage coach came dashing
along and the last good-byes were said and
the scene finished; Hepsie did not dare look
back, but began surveying the faces of those
around her in the stage. A few miles ride
and the silence began to be irksome to a rest-
less girl and a lady near commenced asking
questions that soon led to an interesting con-
versation.
	"Is this your first experience of leaving
home?" asked the lady, "O, no, I've been
away most of the time since I was a little girl."
"And pray what are you now? little enough
to be sure and look no more than eleven years
at the most." "I am fourteen and mean to
teach in a year or two more, indeed it is ex-
pected of me."
	"You will have to grow rapidly and mature
considerably, if you expect to occupy the posi-
tion of a country school teacher, it requires
physical strength remember that, and you look
very delicate." Hepsie wanted to say that she
intended to go to Nauvoo and teach in some
great institution of learning there, but she
had resolved before leaving home not to men-
tion Nauvoo, Joseph Smith, or the "Mormon"
doctrines. Therefore she remained silent,
which was in her case perhaps the better way.
	We shall pass over the year Hepsie remained
at the high school in G. and merely state, that
the girl applied herself exclusively to her
studies, that she made rapid progress and won
the love, esteem and approbation of her teachers
and many of the students. At this institution
after a public examination, Hepsie received a
certificate of graduation, which was proof of
her ability to teach, but the law in Massachu-
setts in those days required every teacher to
be carefully examined in the district, where
the school was to be taught. Hepsie however
felt perfectly sure, young and inexperienced as
she was, that she should not fail when the
time came for a more specific examination.
	She had never betrayed by any word her
peculiarfaith, she was studying with a fixed pur-
pose in view, and adhered to it strictly.
Many times she was lonely and felt the need of
encouragement in her struggles with her own
heart, in regard to the principles she had em-
braced, and of which she knew so little, but
she kept her Bible with her, and a new light
shone from its pages whenever she read it with
a prayerful heart, and in any conversation
with regard to religion she was able to give
such answers as were aplicable to the questions
asked.
	Her mother's prayers were no doubt of much
avail, for she was a woman of great force of
character, remarkable energy and activity, rich
in faith, and abounding in zeal in the good
cause she had so ardently espoused. Hepsie
realized in after years, that the Providences of
God were over her in those days, and she knew
her mother's prayers had been heard on high.
How often do we come to an understanding of
the silent forces exercised in our behalf,
years after those, who were the active agents
in bringing about the desired results, lie cold and
silent in the tomb, or have in other words,
passed on "to that better land," ere we could
make recognition of their spiritual help.
	Examination over, Hepsie felt as much re-
luctance to leave school and return home, as
she had in coming away to the strange scenes
and people. She lay awake nights before-
			[Column 2]
hand, wondering how everything would be,
and how she would be received by her old
friends and former schoolmates. In those 
days letters were less frequently interchanged
than now, and Hepsie knew very little con-
cerning what had transpired at home since
her departure.
	There was no one coming to accompany
Hepsie home, though her mother had written
to have the Principal make some arrangements
about the journey. She would be quite alone,
as the students going in her direction expected
to travel in private conveyances. Although
Hepsie had been somewhat exclusive during
this last year of school, she had made some
very dear friends and it was hard to leave
them, some were going to the South to teach
and others thought of teaching at, or near
home in New England. Hepsie expected soon
to go to Nauvoo though she did not say so to
her classmates. When the question was asked, 
"What are you going to do Hepsie?" she re-
plied invariably "to teach somewhere perhaps, 
not yet."
	Farewells were interchanged as one after
another would start for home, and Hepsie's 
turn soon came, fellow-students  and teachers
joined in predicting for her a brilliant career,
for she had excelled in literary pursuits and
especially so in composition. The morning
was dismal and cold making the girl all the
more gloomy, the stage was crowded and she
felt the more lonely—the day wore on and at
last the slow old coach stopped at Mrs. Hatha-
way's gate; the anxious friends were eagerly
waiting and as the girl alighted she felt as
much embarrassed as when going among
strangers, perhaps even more so, for she knew
that remarks and criticisms would be made
upon her manners, her appearance etc., and
she dreaded to be the object of village gossip
as all sensitive people do. Her mother was
the first to greet and caress her, and one after
another commented freely, "the child has not
grown at all, she looks as if she had been
starved." "Did you like the school?" these and
a hundred other similar questions poured in
upon her, she was tired and nervous and yet
there was no escape; she had been gone a year
almost and they were all anxious to know
what improvement she had made, and the girl
was obliged to submit to their scrutiny and
questionings.
	The next event of importance, for we must
hasten on with this story was, what was Hepsie
to do—her mother had thought of this before
she came home, and decided that teaching
would be the proper thing; New England wo-
men like Mrs. Hathaway believe in putting
one's education to practical use. Things had
settled down at home and Hepsie was getting
used to her own family and the village people,
and as the Spring began to open up renewed
her visits to the old accustomed places, and
Mrs. H. feared she was giving her time too
much to idle dreaming. Hepsie was aware
that her mother wanted to talk to her and
sought to avoid it, but it had to come. One day
when they were alone Mrs. H. spoke out. 
"Hepsie do you intend to get a school? for if
you do its high time you set about it. All the
schools around here are taken and the three
Bancroft girls have each secured a situation,
Rosie is younger than you are and has not had
the training you have had." Hepsie's heart
beat very fast and she colored up to the eyes but
she summoned up courage and replied. "I do 
expect to teach and I suppose it means going
away from home again, but I will not 'board
round.'"
	"Where are you going to look for a place,
board round or not? Lucy Reynolds has the
district nearest here, Miss Bancroft teaches on
the hill, Susan on the other side in the East
district," and Mrs. H. went through the list
of all the places near. Hepsie thought a m
			[Column 3]
ment and then said "I'll try Beechwoods, I 
haven't heard that school was taken have
you?" Mrs. H. had not, and so Hepsie on the
same day wrote a letter to one of the Trustees
whom she had known all her life.
	In a day or two he paid a visit to see the
girl herself and find out what her capabilities
were. He came in the morning and Hepsie was
already out in the orchard for the young buds
were just beginning to put in an appearance,
and she had to be sent for, and while the old
gentleman waited in the parlor he asked Mrs.
H. how old her daughter was who seemed so 
anxious to teach. "She is just fifteen." "Does
she know anything about discipline?" inquired
Mr. M. this was a difficult question for Mrs. H.
had an idea, that she knew about as much of
discipline as the birds, however she managed
to reply indirectly that she had always ex-
pected to be a teacher and all her training had
been with that end in view. Here Hepsie appeared
upon the scene, and good old Mr. M. greeted
her cordially, but his first remark afterwards
was calculated to dampen her ardor. "Hepsie
or Miss Hathaway I suppose you are now, as
all the older girls are married, you do not look
more than eleven years old, though your
mother has just told me you are fifiteen. I'm 
afraid the folks at Beechwoods will think you're 
too young, but we shall see, I've come to en-
gage you; there isn't much time to spare, next
Monday morning the school must open, you'll 
have to be examined you know, and you must
have a certificate of good moral character
from your minster here." Hepsie thought
this was rather soon to begin and besides she
had never worn long dresses yet. Mr. M. 
didn't seem to notice it, and she assured her-
self she would look much taller and older
when her skirts were long. After some further
conversation and explanations, terms were
agreed upon, also the boarding place, and
Mr. M. took his leave, saying at the last mo-
ment "Mrs. H. she's too young. to teach, but
then we'll try it if she passes the examina-
tion.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


MISCELLANEOUS.
	Where a man's business is, there is the ground
for his religion to manifest itself.—ArthurHelps.
	The good Samaritan helps the unfortunate
wayfarer without asking how he intends to
vote.—J. A. Macon.
	We find plenty of people who don't average
well; they know too much for one man and
not enough for two.— Uncle Esek.
	There are few tables where convivial talents
will not pass in payment, especially where the
host wants brains or the guest has money.—
Zimmerman.
	"It's a great blessing to possess what one
wishes," said some one to an ancient philosopher,
who replied, "It's a greater blessing still, not
to desire what one does not possess."
	True courage never exerts itself so much as
when it is most pressed, and it is then we must
enjoy the feast of a good conscience when we
stand in the greatest need of its support.–
Hibernicus' Letters. 
	My young disciple, don't hunt for new
things, but study to improve upon the old
ones; every flat stone, and most of the bowlders,
have been turned over already by the novelty-
hunters.— Uncle Esek.
	It is a very poor, though common pretense
to merit, to make it appear by the faults of 
other men: a mean wit or beauty may pass in a
room where the rest of the company are allowed
to have none; it is something to sparkle among
diamonds, but to shine among pebbles is
neither credit nor value worth the pretending.
—Sir W. Temple.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


TO MY HUSBAND'S MOTHER, 

MRS. SARAH G. RICHARDS.

	Dear mother, thou who gavest mortal birth
To him—my noblest, best, my next to God—
Accept the tribute of a daughter’s love.
	And while I seek, within my humble muse, 
Some gem that’s suitable for thee to find, 
May God inspire me what and how to write. 
For well I know, that uninspired by Him, 
I conld no word, no line, no sentence trace, 
That would be valued or approved by thee. 
Thou art His child, and thou dost love His laws. 
Do I not know that in the direst hour, 
Thou wast upheld by His almighty arm?
That He hath given thee strength and grace to stand, 
'Mid persecutions, and through trying tests, 
When pow’rs of darkness else had borne thee down !
	Thou art His daughter, owned and well beloved. 
He knows thy faith and thine integrity; 
And all His promises to thee are sure. 
	Am I not bless’d, to be the chosen bride
Of thy dear offspring? Heaven knows I prize
The high position given me to fill. 
Not one of worldly grandeur or of ease—		
What hath a follower of Christ to do
With pomp and pride, and stations whch become
The Mammon worshipers? Let me ne’er fall
So low, so groveling as to seek their train !
My place is loftier, for I am the wife
Of one who fears and honors God, the Lord, 
And seeks to know and to perform His will
In each particular. 
				Mother, I bless
And reverence you, as God’s appointed one, 
Through pain and sorrow, love and faithfulness, 
To bring to earth this chosen “Child of Prayer,”
And give him to God’s service and to me. 
I pray for you, that all your future days
May be more golden than the past have been; 
That we your children, may in some small way, 
Relieve you of the loss you still must bear, 
In having parted with your honored Lord; 
Whom death alone could separate from you, 
Whose love you trusted most implicity, 
And gave him all a woman has to give. 
	How much you miss his tender, patient care, 
We cannot realize, nor fill his place; 
But if our prayers for you are not in vain, 
You will be comforted and hopeful still. 
And in the great Eternity which lies
Almost within the out-stretched finger’s reach,
Where happy recognitions will take place, 
Where love will know no limit, joy no bound, 
Where no misunderstandings will arise, 
A blest reunion waits for him and you; 
A unity more perfect than the first
Will there exist, and make you one indeed. 
	There, too, the fair, sweet girls our Father gave
To bless your children and adorn their lives, 
And then recalled, in infant purity—
Who clung to you, with loving, childish trust, 
And kindled in your breast such hope and pride—
They, too, are there, awaiting our approach
With fond expectation. Oh the change !
Lord teach us how to wait and to prepare !
	Again I crave rich blessings upon thee, 
And may God grant and multiply the same. 

	Let lighter affections go whither they may, 
And passions less holy be lost and decay;
	Let doubts and suspicions false sympathies sever, 
But may our true frieudship endure forever l
	May that love dear mother, between us exist, 
Which can every test and temptation resist;
	With a union like that of Naomi and Ruth, 
Firm as Heaven’s own justice, and fair as its truth. 
								LULA. 
S. L. City, Dec. 26th.


[Column 1]
		SCHOOLS OF MUSIC.
After Pope, to quote the proper authorities,
poets turned from the mechanical expression
and nice antithetical opposition of thought to
subjects freer and more emotional. After he
had held men down to the formalities of the

[Column 2]
time for over a hundred years, we begin to
find a great number of poets and prose writers
whose efforts were directed towards the over-
throw of the artificial rhetoric and unimagina-
tive pedantry of the French school of poetry
which was so influential in England and so
much imitated and copied by the Euglish,
These men labored to express more humanity,
more freedom of thought and motion. Com-
pare the measured lines and cold, polished
style of Pope with the warm romance and
chivalry of many of the later poets, especially
those of Scott or Tennyson, and one cannot
fail to be struck by the change that poetry,
like all other arts, has undergone. And as
these illustrations more clearly define the
characteristics of the romantic school in general,
allow me a few more examples. Students
say that the classic period in sculpture reached
its climax with Phidias and then came the
introspection of Socrates, Plato, and Aristotle.
Man began to yearn to express, not only his
conception of outward beauty of form, but also
his own inner life of joys and sorrows. Thus
the “Laocoon” was not classical, because it
pictured human sufferings—the tortures of soul
and body of the father and sons in the deadly
struggle with the serpents sent to destroy them.
The Venus de Medici was not the abstract
classical beauty of the Greek, because it hinted
at shame, and any such expression was in-
consistent with the character and theory of
the beautiful in Greek art. These are a few
of the evidences of the numerous changes which
took place in art form; changes which were
natural, unavoidable, and inevitable; changes
in the spirit of progress; Carlyle “Zeitgeist.”
And with this “spirit of the times” has come
those vital changes in political and religious
institutions, the drama, fiction, and music,
though changes not by any means con-
temporaneous. Sculpture and architecture
first broke away, though they afterwards en-
deavored to return to their old ideals. Shaks-
peare reconstructed the drama disregarding
the law of the unities and giving us, instead of
mere polished rhetoric, a sentiment of the
beautiful and a love of nature which appeals
to every human heart. But it was in the
early part of this century, in Germany, and
later in France, that what is now recognized
as the romantic school took its first impulse.
Its founders were a band of talented poets,
critics, artists, who left the old regime entirely,
form as well as subject, demanding the right
for each artist of individual expression accord-
ing to any methods that best suited his fancy.
They revived old tales of chivalry and stories
and legends descended, from the Latin or
Romance people of the middle ages,thus giv-
ing this revolutionary tendency in art and
literature the name “Romanticism”
	In music, Beethoven, whose works we are
accustomed to hear spoken of as classical,
is the great pioneer, founder, and type of this
school. His compositions are all classical, in
the proper sense of the word classical, and in
fact his earlier writings are modeled after the
law and style of the older classical masters.
But soon, throwing off the idea of form as an
end, he wrote to express the emotions of the
human heart; showing pictures of joy, sorrow,
heroism, chivalry, and humor.
	To my mind, and it is a remark often heard
among musicians and students, Beethoven
makes the same appeal to the emotions through
the language of sound that Shakespeare makes
to the reader through the medium of speech.
But understand, only the emotions. The
purely romantic school does not pretend to do
more than this. The classicists gave us outline.
The romanticists gave us feeling and content;
it is reserved for a later school to attempt
what never can or will be accomplished in
music, that is to present a fact, a real picture
of objects, actions, and circumstances. Beet-

[Column 3]
hoven’s humor, as he has often shown it in the
scherzi of his symphonies and quartets, is as
strong musically speaking,as is ever Shakspeare
in his wittiest comedy parts; his jokes are as
good, his portrayal of heroism, of happiness,
of gloomy sadness, or of repose is by far
stronger; as the language of sound is more
sensitive and subtle than the medium of speech.
In fact, there is not a line in his better works
that does not breathe some emotion. Beethoven
was, properly speaking, a symphonist; even his
piano sonatas, the best of them, are symphonic.
This is the highest form of composition. His
one opera, “Fidelio,” is considered the purest
type of operatic writing in existence, although
the evidences are visible throughout of the
hampering influences under which he com-
posed it, for he was obliged to write so to
please the Viennese public as well as the
managers and critics who would recognize
only the Italian form. A man of tremendous
passions, shut off from the world by total deaf-
ness; a man completely at variance with the
shallow conventionalities and frivolities of the
popular life of his time; a combination of
subjectivity and objectivity—this is the man
who has reached the highest place in the history
of instrumental music, symphonic writings, just
as Bach, the outgrowth of the reformatory
religious movement, occupies the culminating
position as its exponent in music. In a broad
and higher view Beethoven is classical in the
same sense that Lessing, Schiller, and Goethe 
are called the German classics, for they em-
bodied in poetry that same freedom of thought
and feeling which Beethoven has thrown into
his symphonies and sonatas. Chronologically
speaking, Beethoven’s position in the history of
the romantic school is as much reversed as is
Shakspeare’s, for was not he more than one 
hundred years in advance of his time?
	Beethoven wrote but one small collection of
songs, for he was not a song writer; rather a
symphonist. The great song writer of the
romantic school was Shcubert. There were
songs before him, songs by Haydn, Mozart, and
those by Beethoven, beautiful and touching
expressions of simple thought, and greatly
admired as such. But the celebrated German
“lied,” or song as it became in the hands of
Shcubert, is the realization of romantic lyric
art, and as such unapproachable. Everything
he has written is full of dramatic fire, poetry
and pathos. It is music set, not to simple
ballads or folk-songs, but to long and often
complex poems. He used the best
poetry of the greatest poets, Goethe, Schiller,
Scott, Heine, Shakspeare. See the list of
romantic writers with whom he lived, and
the spirit of his music is not to be wondered at,
He was a romanticist just as they were. He
wedded his music to their poems and intensified
the spirit in them; and he did this with an
absolute reflection of every change and breath
of sentiment in the poetry and always with an
accompaniment of the greatest force, fitness,
and variety. Oftentimes this dramatic element
is so strongly painted; there is so much of the
'Laocoon” present that it seems as if the very
'limits of romanticism had been reached- The
“Erlkoenig” is an example of this tendency.
It is considered the strongest example of
dramatic song-writing in existence. Indeed, it
is always difficult to discern where the line of
demarkation exists in this dramatic element in
music. Schubert’s genius has enabled him,
like his great follower Schumann, to do things
that no others have been able to accomplish,
though there have been hosts of so-called
romantic composers who have over-reached the
limits altogether.


To all men the best friend is virtue; the best
companions are high endeavors and honorable
sentiments.


WOMAN’S EXEONENT.
WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
EMMELINE B. WELLS,		-	Editor.
	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah	Terms:
one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months, 50 cts. No
reduction made for clubs. City papers delivered by mail,
extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space, one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal discount
to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, No. 25 E., South Temple Street, second
gate east of Deseret News Office. Business hours from 10 a.m.
to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
			PUBLISHER WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
								SALT LAKE CITY UTAH.
	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
Second Class Matter.

SALT LAKE CITY,	-	-	March 1, 1890.


[column 1]
		THE DAYS OF THE JUDGES.

	The rulings of the United States Judges in the
Courts of Utah in the class of cases that come
within the scope of the Edmund's law are to say
the least paradoxical. One day the Judge sitting
upon the bench decides a case and it might be
supposed establishes a precedent, from the
authority of his position, the next case of the
same kind is decided exactly opposite, and it
leaves one not acquainted with the law in great
doubt as to which decision, if either is correct.
The Edmund's law itself makes the enforcement
of its measures sufficiently severe and painful
upon the innocent without any farther stretching
of its statutes and conditions. But these Judges
(some of them) do not hesitate to go beyond the
limit of the law itself, and to declare that the
children of a plural wife, which are positively de-
fined in the Edmund's law, as heirs to the father's
estate, are illegitimate and not entitled to any
part of the father's inheritance.
	The defendants in such disputable cases ought
if possible to carry the suits from one court to
another until the Supreme Court of the United
States shall decide the matter. It is not a trifling
thing and those who talk so much about abiding
the law should be careful to make just and equit-
able decisions in cases, that are to only an or-
dinary mind as clear as daylight. One cannot
help thinking of the old saying "Who shall de-
cide when Doctors disagree?" Now it appears to
be—Who shall decide when Judges disagree?
	However there is a ready answer to this ques-
tion formidable as it may seem. The Supreme
Court of the United States. The Edmund's Law
of March 1882 contains this positive statement.
	"Section 7. That the issue of bigamous or
polygamous marriages, known as Mormon mar-
riages, in cases in which such marriages
have been solemnized according to the cere-
monies of the Mormon sect, in any Territory of
the United States, and such issue shall have been
born before the first day of January Anno
Domini eighteen hundred and eighty-three, are
hereby legitmated."
	The language is unmistakable and how Judge
Marshall could decide that George H. Cope, son
of Thomas Cope deceased, by his plural wife as
not being entitled to a share in the estate of his
father is one of the most remarkable errors on re-
cord. Judge Anderson in the Third District
Court on Monday Jan. 29, 1890 affirmed Judge
Marrhall's decision, the case having come up on
appeal from the Probate Court.
	It would appear from the reasoning of these
two Judges as given in the decisions that they left
the Edmund's law out of the case, whereas the
Edmund's law was created on purpose to settle
these knotty points of the "Mormon" question that
vex the nation at the present time, and unsettle

[column 2]
the judgement of these wise judges, who have un-
dertaken to interpret the law in the courts of
Utah.
	The decision of Judge Bartch in the case of the
children of Apostle Orson Pratt, was in accord-
ance with the facts contained in the Edmund's
law, that they were entitled to heirship in the
estate of the father. His decision is just and
right and strictly in accordance with the provis-
ions of the law enacted for the adjustment of
such difficulties as were likely to arise in the
Courts of law when Congress decided to uproot
and dissever all the marital ties formed accord-
ing to the patriarchal or celestial order of mar-
riage. Senator Edmunds himself will doubtless be
astonished with the decision of Judges Marshal
and Anderson, and Judge Bartch has proven his
independence of opinion in that he dared to disa-
agree with the other two Judges.
	These Judges are not so unanimous in their
decisions as the "Liberals" are in their voting,
Democrats, Republicans, Mugwumps, Jews, Gen-
tiles and Apostats all uniting to carry the late elec-
tion. These people have never ceased to proclaim
against the unanimity of the People's Party, but
the principle was good enough for them to adopt,
and they seem as proud of it as if it were not
borrowed.
	And now we come to another phase of the days
of the Judges, the decision of Judge Zane in the
leasing of buildings rightfully owned by the
Latter-day Saints, but now in litigation on ac-
count of the taking of what was considered
Church property under the enforcement of the
statutes of the Edmund's law. Judge Zane con-
founds tithing with polygamy, the terms are not
synonymous, and have no meaning in common;
they are as distinct and separate so far as simi-
larity is concerned as land and water; yet the
Judge imagines that if people pay tithes they will
practise or at least counsel or advise plural,
marriage. The law of tithing was observed
in the days of the Israelitsh Judges, and also the
practice of polygamy prevailed; or it is so under-
stood; and still another custom which is not now
observed, that of women Judges—for we are told
that Deborah a mother in Israel "judged Israel
forty years" and great and mighty men sought
counsel of Deborah, and who knows but if some
of these puzzled Judges would seek wisdom from
some good mother in modern Israel, they might
be able to understand more clearly the problems
they are undertaking to solve.

[column 3]
On Thursday February 20, 1890, Mr. George H.
Horne and Miss Alice S. Merrill were united in
marriage; the ceremony was performed in the
Logan Temple. On the Monday following, the
24th, a reception for the newly wedded bride and
bridegroom was held at the residence of Mrs.
Bathsheba W. Smith the grandmother of the
fair young bride.  During the afternoon many
friends called offering congratulations, and par-
taking of choice and delicious refreshments—and
in the evening a large party of young people as-
sembled to honor the occasion. Among these
were twenty-five or thirty of the Shakespere
Club of which Mr. and Mrs. Horne were mem-
bers. One of the happy features of the party was
the crowning of one of the young girls by the
bride with a myrtle wreath. The bride is blind-
folded and the girls circle around her and the
one on whose head she places the wreath of
myrtle is to be wedded next, this is of course a
little innocent fun.  Mrs. Smith's parlors were
profusely decorated with flowers and trailing vines
and there seemed nothing wanting to add to the
happiness of the joyous event. The bride who is
young and beautiful looked charming (of course)
her dress was neat and becoming, of white india
silk and made with her own hands, exquisite soft
lace lay gracefully on her neck, she wore a deli-
cate rose in her hair, vines and white blossoms
were prettily draped from her shoulder to the
waist, she was certainly a handsome bride;—the
young bridegroom is the son of Mr. Joseph Horne
and Mrs. Mary Horne, the bride the daughter of
Mr. and Mrs. Clarence Merrill, all of this City.
It is needless to say the wedding presents were
numerous, and many of them elegant. They
start out in life under very favorable circum-
stances, and the writer joins with other sincere
friends in congratulations, and hopes that their
future life may be bright, happy and peaceful.


EDITORIAL NOTES.
	A letter received from one of the Utah Dele-
gates to the N. A. W. S. A. at Washington D. C.
states that the delegation from this City arrived
in time to attend the banquet in honor of "Miss
Anthony's seventieth birthday, which was a very
grand affair," and also that in the morning ses-
sion of Friday, Feb. 21st, the report from Utah
was announced and Miss Anthony prefaced the re-
port with a grand send off, Mrs. Sarah M. Kimball,
President of the W. S. A. of Utah "walked up
to the front in her dignified and stately manner
and did our Territory most proud. She was im-
mediately supported by Miss Phebe Couzens who
advised the audience to read Mr. Bancroft's His-
tory of Utah and see how our people had been
outrageously misrepresented." Mrs. Kimball,
Mrs. Dougall and her son expected to visit Mt.
Vernon, on the 22nd, Washington's birthday. The
Delegates are expected in this City by the 7th or
8th of this month, when particulars of their visit
and what they have seen and heard as well as
what they have accomplished in the good cause,
will be given in public, as the regular meeting of
the Utah W. S. A. will be held, it is expected on
Monday the 10th of this month.


WASHINGTON CONVENTION.
	The twenty-second annual convention of the
Woman Suffrage Association held at Washing-
ton D. C., Feb. 18, 19, 20, and 21, was dis-
tinguished from those held heretofore by combin-
ing in one the two great organizations hitherto
known as the National and the American; now
uniting the names, to be called the National-
American Woman Suffrage Association. Its of-
ficers chosen by ballot at an Executive session of
both the National and American are Mrs. Eliza-
beth Cady Stanton, President, Miss Susan B.
Anthony, Vice President, Mrs. Rachel Foster
Avery, Recording Secretary, Miss Alice Stone
Blackwell, Corresponding Secretary, Mrs. Lucy
Stone, Chairman Executive Committee, Mrs. Jane
H. Spofford, Treasurer, Miss Eliza Ward and F.
H. Hinckley, Auditors.
	On the first day of the Convention very able
and interesting addresses were made by Hon.
Wm. Dudley Foulke, the late President of the
American W. S. A. and Mrs. Elizabeth Cady
Stanton President of the National W. S. A. for
many years; there was also an impromptu speech
by Mrs. Harriet Stanton Blatch said to have been
quite a brilliant effort.
	Mrs. Stanton's address contains many strong
points, and the chief barriers in the way of suc-
cess to the movement are carefully marked out
and the first one named is, "The apathy and in-
difference of society to all reforms." At some
future time we may give the speech in full  in our
columns.
	Mrs. Stanton and her daughter Mrs. Blatch sailed
for Europe the following day.
	At the morning sessions after the first day, re-
ports of the delegates from States and Territories
came in their order, followed by discussions, and
at the evening sessions addresses were made
upon subjects of the utmost importance; such as


[Column 1]
“Woman Suffrage a Growth of Civilization,'
"The Progress of Woman," "Chivalry of Re-
form," "A Whole Humanity," "Where is the 
Mistake," "Our Unconscious Allies." These
topics were all ably handled by intellectual and
gifted speakers.
	There is no doubt in the mind of the writer that
the union of these two great forces will have a
powerful effect in bringing about the desired result
that it will hasten more surely and rapidly the
ultimate success of the great woman suffrage
movement viz: the enfranchisement of woman in
the United States. Mrs. Stanton in some Reso-
lutions prepared by her and presented to the Con-
vention sets forth her ideas in regard to the or-
ganized work for the immediate future. We give
them in full, but we are not as yet aware whether
they have been adopted by the Association as
they stand.
RESOLUTIONS PRESENTED BY MRS. STANTON.			
	Whereas, Our labors with Congress and State
Legislatures should henceforward be carried on
with renewed determination, zeal and consecra-
tion; therefore	
	Resolved, That a thorough and widespread or-
ganization of our forces must be secured, that by
concentrated action we may make our united
powers irresistible at any given time and place.
	Whereas, the constitutions of the original thir-
teen colonies made no distinctions of sex, and
women in the early days exercised the right of
suffrage; and
	Whereas, by the principles laid down in the
Declaration of Independence, and by the letter
and spirit of the National constitution women are
citizens and voters; therefore
	Resolved, That the persecutions of the Freed-
men to-day are due to the narrow policy of their
defenders, a quarter of century ago, making justice
one thing for the black man, and and another for
woman, thus confusing the moral sense of the
nation, and by denying the application of a prin-
ciple to one class, jeopardizing the rights of all. 
	Resolved, That as the fathers violated the prin-
ciples of justice; in consenting to a three-fifths
representation, recognizing slavery in the consti-
tution, and thereby made a civil war inevitable; 
so our statesmen and supreme court judges, by
their misrepresentations of the 14th amendment,
declaring that the United States has no voters, 
and that citizenship does not carry with it the
right of suffrage; have not only prolonged wo-
man's disfranchisement, but undermined the status
of the Freedman, and opened the way for other
war of races.
	Whereas, It is proposed to have a national law,
restricting the right of divorce to a narrower
basis, and
	Whereas, Congress has already made an appro-
priation for a Report on the Question, which 
shows that there are 10,000 divorces annually in
the United States and the majority demanded by
women; and
	Whereas, liberal divorce laws for wives are
what Canada was for the States—a door of escape
from bondage; therefore
	Resolved, That there be no farther legislation
in this question until woman has a voice in the 
state and national government;
	*		*		*		*		*		*
	Whereas, The greatest question before  the
American people to day is the enfranchisement of
[Column 2]
woman, involving as it does the civil and politi-
cal rights of one-half the people; and
	Whereas, The sole object of the National-
American Association is to accomplish this pur-
pose; therefore
	Resolved, That our platform in the future as in
the past must recognize the equal rights of all
parties, sects and races, manifest a broad Catholic
spirit, for all shades of opinion in which we may
differ, and ever hold our personal differences
subordinate to the greater good that can be accom-
plished by harmonious and concentrated action.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


TO SUSAN B. ANTHONY.

[ON HER SEVENTIETH BIRTHDAY]

With noble soul and brave and tender heart
	And will-power strong in efforts to do good, 
Through fires of persecution thou'st built up
	A higher, wiser, nobler womanhood.
Unto the weak thou'st strength and courage given,
	Uplifting them from valleys of despair;
And wisdom-welded weapons bright and strong
	To cleave the wrongs thy sister had to bear.

Self-sacrificing and courageous one,
	True to thyself, thy country and thy cause,
To thee will future generations turn
	In gratitude, for all the humane laws
Won by thy efforts to have justice done!
	Unto thy wise co-workers and to thee,
Some day, will woman's thankful life repeat--
	"I bless their names that I too, I am free!"

Oh tried and true! Thy trusty hand hath made
	A pathway for our faltering feet to tread;
And we who follow, find the flowers spring
	Where once but weeds and thorns and thickets spread.
Oh, whne for thee the silent boatman calls,
	And sets his bark towards the eternal shore,
May thy glad spirit find a welcome sweet,
	From friends whom thou hast known and loved be-
		fore!
						AMARALA MARTIN.
Cairo, Ill.


SOME OF MISS ANTHONY’S VIEWS.
	“Our Association has always allowed the utmost
freedom to vote against everything that would
 block our way, no matter whether it was the
church, or what it was.  Anything and every-
thing that stood in the way of progress was al-
ways likely to get its head knocked off on the plat-
form of the National Woman Suffrage Association.
I want every one who claims to be a National to
stand for this broad principle.  I want our plat-
form to be kept broad enough for the infidel, the
atheist, the Mohammedan, or the Christian. I
remember thirty years ago George William Curtis
said to me: “If you want your platform to suc-
ceed you must not allow Mrs. Ernestine L. Rose
to stand upon it, she’s a pronounced atheist.” I
said: “We shall never turn her out.” Now we
have come to another phase of the fight, and if it
is necessary, I will fight another forty years to
make it broad enough for the Christian to stand
upon, whether she be a Catholic, and counts her
her beads, or a Protestant of the straightest or-
thodox creed.  I shall fight for the rights of the
Christians to-day, as for the rights of the infidels
forty years ago.  We have also delegates from
Utah on our platform.  Let not the Nationals go
back on their record.  Every woman, whether she
be Mormon or Gentile, has the right to vote.  It
was a dastardly act of Congress in disfranchising
the women of Utah.  They are here to-day with
a magnificent delegation.”
	“These are the broad principles I want you to
stand upon, that our platform may be kept as
broad as the universe, that upon it may stand the
representatives of all creeds and no creeds—
Pagan, Jew, Gentile or Christian, Protestant or
Catholic. (Applause.)”


A NAUVOO WOMAN.
	The Nauvoo Independent of Feb. 7, contains
 the following notice which may be of interest to
some of the Latter-day Saints who formerly re-
sided there.  We had a conversation with
the deceased in March 1886, and she expressed
to us her faith in the principles of the Gospel.
Her children were some of them members of
other churches.—Ed.
ANOTHER OLD SETTLER GONE.
	“Mrs. Elizabeth Clark, one of Nauvoo’s oldest
settlers, died of influenza complicated with
pneumonia, at her residence in the Third ward, at
nine o’clock Friday morning, Jan. 31, 1890, aged
77 years, 9 months and 29 days.  Mrs. Clark was
born in Lancashire, England, in the year 1812.
She was married to Francis Clark in 1831, and
they came to this city in 1841; the children born
to them being six sons and four daughters—Sarah,
William, John, Eber, Joseph, Alfred, Margaret
Alice, Mary Jane, Elizabeth Ann and Francis,
nine of whom are still living.  She was beloved
by those who knew her and respected by the com-
munity in which she lived.  The funeral took
place from her residence, 17th and Parley Sts.,
Sunday, Feb. 2nd, at 1:30 p.m. and was conducted
by Rev. R. Lambert and son William, of Rock
Creek, after which the remains were followed to
the Mormon cemetery by a large procession of
sorrowing relatives and friends and there de-
posited by the side of her husband long since
laid to rest.”
	"She is not dead, yet death has done its work, 
	It came, but not in ghastliness—it, as
	A kindly porter, set the gates ajar.
	And he stepped forth, leaving the tenement
	A breathless corse, that slumbers in the tomb;
	'Twas worn and weary and it needeth rest.
	No faith, nor prayers, nor the heart’s yearnings,
	The loving and beloved could longer bind 
	That mighty spirit in an earthly form."


FOR THE TIME BEING.
	The serio-comic woes of editors in general
form a constant theme for the newspapers. We
are all acquainted with the bore who will not go,
the paying subscriber who will not come, with
the writer of Spring poetry, and the fierce fault-
finder, who says in substance, “Retract or die.”
But did any one ever mention the peculiar trials
that fall to the lot of an editor pro tem?  They
arise, to be sure, from his (or her) own incompe-
tency, but that fact is not, in itself, soothing. 
	The undersigned in a rash moment, and in the
absence of a better person, promised to take care
of the Woman's Journal for a week while the
editors were in Washington.  She has been ac-
customed to bestow free home criticism upon the
powers that be,—but hereby meekly takes it all
back, realizing that precept and example are
quite different things, and that in a printing-office
one sees most forcibly,that this is indeed a “world
of limitations.”	
	When an article is left out because, in your
ignorance, you did not mark it properly; when
the manuscript about whose correct printing you 
feel the most anxiety is in nearly hopeless hier-
oplyphics; when you think you have piled in
matter enough to last a week, and are told that
“we shall need at least five columns more.”—
then alert foreman and swift fingered composi-
tors seem to your frantic mind to become pursu-
ing demons, joining in one insatiate cry for “copy,
copy!”
	One dear editor, who, deciding at the last mo-
ment that “discretion is the better part of valor,’
gives up Washington under the pressure of a
severe cold, sends in to the city office a kindly
word, saying, “You may still be editor for the
week, and I know we shall have a bright num-
ber.”


It is meant for compliment and cheer, but a
hopeless dulness envelopes me from that moment.
It recalls a certain woman in the country, of 
humorous nature and jocose habit, who was in-
vited to a little evening party in simple style.
The good lady was enjoying herself quietly,
when peace and comfort took flight at the whis-
pered message from a little girl, "Mother says,
Won't you please begin to be funny now?"
	I keep back matter as far as possible, waiting
for the report from Washington up to date.   I
have a vision of long descriptions of the brilliant
meetings, with verbatim newspaper reports in-
terpolated, giving the speeches in full, and I
judged that I must reserve for it at least four 
columns.  What is my horror to receive an en-
velope with one strip instead of many, and the
accompanying succinct statement:  "This mean
little report is all I can send you."
	Far be it from me to contradict the junior 
editor, in whose judgment I place the greatest 
confidence.   The report is excellent, so far as it
goes; but as I think of the yawning columns
which I hoped to fill with the eloquence of Mrs.
Stanton, the power of Mr. Foulke, the convincing
charm of Mrs. Chant, I am not disposed to
differ.
	Next week eye-witnesses will tell the whole
rich story of the Washington Convention; and,
as when people have nothing else to say or think
about, they invariably dilate upon their own
miseries, that shall be the excuse for the present
writing.
								C. W.
	Woman's Journal.


WOMAN’S' EXPONENT.


ALL NATIONS IN ONE.
	“I am no respecter of persons, but in every
nation they that fear me and keep my command-
ments are respected of me.” These words were
spoken by One whom we should always have in
memory because He died that we might have
eternal life.  He is our elder brother, and is con-
tinually pleading for us before our Heavenly
Father. It is in His name and through His in-
tercession that we receive every blessing. We
should therefore take Him for our pattern and
example.  It is not my intention however in this
article to show the beautiful traits of character of
the Savior but to write on the unity that should
exist among His chosen people.
	Israel is scattered through all nations and the
Latter-day Saints are continually sending out
Elders to “Tell the glad tidings of great joy," and
the sheep know the voice of the true shepherds,
and gladly leave home and friends and often
break every earthly tie to gather to Zion, thus ful-
filling the scripture which says, “I will gather one
of a city and two of a family.” Here in this
chosen land we are or should be baptized into one
nation; dropping all nationality, and not boasting
that I am better, than you because I am an
American, or if English, that there is nothing
good outside of England, but that we had every-
thing so grand there and the manners of the
English are so superior, or to look down, as many
do, on our Danish brothers and sisters. What
difference does it make what portion of the
Globe was assigned to us as a birth place so that
we are true and faithful, and following in the foot-
steps of our meek and lowly Savior. “The elect
will be gathered from the four quarters of the
earth.” Who are the elect? They are the pure
in heart and they shall see God. Can we behold
His face until we put away from us all haughti-
ness of spirit and put on the mantle of charity
which should cover us as a garment.
	How often has the tender feelings of a sensi-
tive, loving heart been bruised and bowed with
sorrow because of some selfish unkind word,
thrown as a slur at their nation and at them be-
cause they belong to that nation.


Does it not show ignorance of the first rule of
all true politeness, for true etiquette comes from
the heart and is a desire to do as we would be
done by, and make all around us happy. It also
shows ignorance of the true spirit of the Gospel
and of the teachings of our Savior. 
	Why should I boast of lands or state,
		Ancestral halls, or place of birth?
	It is not these that make me great,
		Or adds one atom to my worth.
	Because my brother chanced to be
		In some far distant nation born 
	Is he therefore the less than me, 
		Or should I laugh him unto scorn ?
	God placed His children where He would
		On continent or sea-girt isle.
	And doubtless fully understood
		And had His motives all the while,
	And judges them from acts alone 	
		And not from lands from whence they sprung.
	That will not matter when 'tis shown 
		Their actions have been right of wrong.
							Bird Robinson.
Fillmore.


[Column 1]
W. S. A. OF EMERY CO.
	The W. S. A. of Emery Co., held their
quarterly meeting at Huntington, Feb. the 9th,
1890. Pres. S. A. Fullmer in the chair. The
choir sang “Let us be faithful and true,"
prayer by Bishop Pulsipher singing "As thy
day thy strength shall be." The business of
the Association was proceeded with,after which
an address was given by Mrs. McGee, upon
the Rights and Privileges of Woman, we were
then favored with a song by Mrs. Allen and 
company, an Address by Pres. S. A. Fullmer
and one by Mrs. T. C. Avery.
	Professor Maeser being present was called
upon to address the meeting, he felt highly
pleased, he had paid no attention hitherto, to
the question of Woman Suffrage but to night
he felt interested, he had found that there was
safety in woman's counsel, and as he under-
stood our position, he did not think we asked
too much, as all would acknowledge that wo-
man weilded a great influence over all.
	Mr. Larsen then addressed the meetiing he
felt to sustain the ladies in their efforts and
thought they being citizens ought to vote al-
though he could not, being disfranchised
under the Edmunds law. A recess was then
given for 15 minutes as an opportunity to give
in their names, 15 names were added to the
list. 
	Singing by the choir.  Adjourned for three
months.  Benediction by Mr. Jasper Robert-
son. 
			JOANNA P. CURTIS, Cor. Sec.

Ladies and Gentlemen:
	Being called upon to address you upon the 
subject of Woman's Rights, I will say al-
though I feel incompetent to do justice to the
subject, yet I am proud of the opportunity, I
am proud that women begin to feel that they
 should have political rights equal with men,
and that those rights ought to be respected.
We live in an enlightened age of the world's
history, an age, when great developments will
be made, and not the least amongst these will
be Woman in her true position. The help-
meet of man in all the avocations in life, re-
ligiously, socially, and politically. But some
will say: was not man made to rule over wo-
man? is he not the head? and should she not
submit to his rule? granted, to a certain extent.
But what is this ruling power? is it to subju-
gate into a sert, or slave, the woman that was
placed by his side to be a helpmeet, a com-
panion, a counselor, O, no! The governing
power, is an equalizing power as I understand
it, one, that will exalt the governed, to the
high pinnacle of power and greatness, enjoyed
by those who govern, hence! woman has a 
[Column 2]
right, an indisputable right, to enjoy all the
honors, the powers, the intelligence, the great-
ness, and the position she is capable of attain-
ing, equal with man. She being a responsible
person, an entity, a free agent, having to give
an account of the use she has made of that
agency, independent of man, she has the right 
to the freedom of conscience, the right to be-
come intelligent, to master the sciences, to be-
come great, to be a doctor, a lawyer, to hold
political office, to have a voice in the nation;
she has a right to say who shall handle her
taxes, and who shall govern her sons and
daughters. We have a right to support the
principle of religious freedom at all hazards,
a right derived from our Maker, also from
the fathers of this Great Republic, bought at
the expense of their ease, their comfort and 
their blood. Let it not be said that the blood
was shed in vain. Let us acknowledge, the
blessing of freedom and liberty! let us cherish
it as a heavenly boon and resolve to maintain
and perpetuate it, a Representative govern-
ment of Equal Rights, not for part of this vast
Continent, not to those who have an interest
in office and place, but for the people, the
whole people. 
	The Constitution itself is but the creature
of the public will: and in every crisis which
threatens it, it must owe its security to the
same power to which it owes its origin. The
women of Utah have been deprived of a right
which they held most dear, the right to vote,
and we may not regain that right; but we have
the privilege of protest, which we do most em-
phatically and we will continue to petition for
our rights as citizens of this "Land of the free,
and home of the brave," it makes our hearts
bleed, and our heads droop with shame, when
we read of our once proud flag trailing in the 
dust, heavy with test oaths, iron clad in their
nature, and the right of franchise taken from
men and women on account of their religious
belief; where is the spirit of the framers of our
glorious Constitution? where is the spirit of 
our Pilgrim Fathers, who thanked God that
this land was the Asylum of Religious Liberty?
History instructs us that the love of Religious
Liberty is a compound sentiment in the breast
of man, made up of the clearest sense of right,
and the highest conviction of duty, yet in this
free land, man is reduced to serfdom for the
exercise of this conviction.
	Woman by her influence and training,
makes our statesmen, our judges, and  our
mighty men; she instils into the mind of the
child the rudimental principles that govern his
after life; she implants the germ of reverence
to the Diety, the Almighty ruling power, she
teaches his infant lips to pray, she inspires in
his young mind the love of Liberty, the love
of Truth, of Honor, of Nobility, and she in-
stils into his young mind lofty and exalted ideas
and by her moral training she gives him a 
love of virtue, of chastity and innocence, and
an insight into the laws of life and health, and
yet, she is regarded as unfit to have the rights
that are awarded to colored men; but we as
the women of this country feel to throw off
the yoke and to come to the front, in the
support of equal rights socially, morally and
politically; we have the right religiously of
voting in all our organizations, and feel to appre-
ciate the privilege.
	Ladies, let me exhort you to thought and
study, so that we may understand our rights,
and the duties and responsibilies resting upon
us, and when we understand, let us dare to
maintain them; don't think that your Maker
intended that you should grovel in the dust,
that you should feel that you could not do
anything to elevate yourselves to a high
standard of education in all the pursuits of
life; we have a noble work before us, and we
call upon all the ladies of this county to join
our ranks and give their support to the W. S.


A. and let our minds soar aloft to a higher
standard, of intelligence, cultivnte, a spirit of
benevolence, and charity, and let us unitedly
unfurl the standard of equal right, and re-
ligious liberty, and may it wave as an ensign
of peace and security to all who enlist under
its banners.
					Sarah Ann Fullmer,
Pres. W.S. A. Emery Co.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


For the Exponent:
A NOBLE WOMAN.
	It is customary to praise the dead. We
scarcely ever hear of anybody’s goodness be-
ing spoken of until death claims them. And
then I often think some get more than they
merited; but there are some who don’t get
their just dues. I think it would be a good
idea to give the deserving living a kind word
once in a while, as they struggle through this
world of pain. Why should we wait until a
person is silent and cold before we speak their
praises? A kind word makes life brighter
and often gives strength to the weak and
weary.
	One of the noblest women I ever knew was
Aunt Julia Simons. Dear Aunt Julia is get-
ting old and feeble now; but a more noble,
self-sacrificing woman never breathed the
breath of life. In the days of her prosperity
and activity the homeless and the needy could
always find a friend. Many a sad heart has
she made rejoice through her benevolent actions
and her kind cheering encouraging words.
She is a true lady of extraordinary intelligence
and very industrious. There is scarcely any
kind of work that she did not excel in at some
time in her life. I have seen this estimable
lady many times at her loom weaving sur-
rounded by her little grandchildren; whom
she would teach at the same time to read and
spell.
	Aunt Julia has seen many trials and was
one of the many who were driven from their
homes in the early rise of the Church of Jesus
Christ of Latter Day Saints. Much could be
written of interest of this noble woman’s use-
ful life. Dear Aunt Julia don’t feel bad in
your old age because you have not strength
to earn means to give to the poor. Don’t
imagine that you are a trouble and that you
are in the way. The world owes you much
Dear Aunt. Just sit down in the rocking-
chair and be content. Thousands are in
your debt.
	In conclusion I ask Our Heavenly Father
to bless Dear Aunt Julia with the choicest
blessings of Heaven. For a nobler, grander,
truer hearted woman never was born I am sure.
	Dear Aunt Julia lift up your heart and
rejoice.
							A. E. A.
	Salina Sevier Co. Utah.


BANQUET TO MISS ANTHONY.
	The celebration in honor of Miss Susan B.
Anthony’s seventieth birthday, preparations
for which have been going on for some time
by Mrs. May Wright Sewall and Mrs. Rachel
Foster Avery, took place on the evening of
Feb. 15, at the Riggs House Washington, D.
C.
	A reception was given in the great parlors
of the hotel, and a large number of friends
tendered congratulations to Miss Anthony.
Towards, ten o’clock the company went to
the dining-room. In the procession Senator
Blair escorted Miss Anthony. Directly behind
them came Robert Purvis, escorting Mrs.
Elizabeth Cady Stanton, and then followed
about 160 others.
	The room was handsomely festooned with


flags overlooped with streamers, and decorated
with potted plants and baskets of cut flowers.
The wall at the south end was entirely hidden
from sight by banking, and standing out
near the ceiling was the word "Welcome."
	The diners were divided into small coteries
of eight and ten seated at round tables placed
in a semi-circle around a larger elevated table,
at which sat Mrs. May Wright Sewall, who
presided, the guests of the evening, and the
speakers.
	After an excellent supper, toasts and re-
sponses were given, as follows:
	"Three Score and ten," an original poem,
by E. Boynton Harbert, and read by Sara
Winthtrop Smith.
	"St. Susan, Our Valentine, One Day Be-
hind Hand, but Not Too Late For Service,"
response by Phoebe W. Couzins.
	"The Modern Peripatetic." response by
Rev. Anna H. Shaw.
	"Miss Anthony as Fellow-worker," response
by Matilda Joslyn Gage.
	"American Womanhood," response by L.
Ormiston C[-]ant, of England.
	"Miss Anthony as a Journalist," response
by Clara Bewick Colby.
	"Change," response by Robert Purvis of
Philadelphia.
	"Miss Anthony at Home," response by Mrs.
Janet Marsh Parker.
	"The Friendship of Women," response by
Mrs. Elizabeth Cady Stanton.
	"The Young Disciple," response by Mrs.
Harriet Stanton Blatch.
	After the singing of "Auld Lang Syne"
by the guests, Miss Anthony rose to speak, and
was greeted with long-continued applause.
She said a few words of gratitude, half
humorous, half-pathetic, made a brief address
in the course of which she paid a high tribute
to Mrs. Stanton, and finally sat down amid
renewed applause.
	Between the toasts there was music, and
recitations by Miss Elizabeth Johnson, Mrs.
May Wright Sewall, and Mrs. Isabella Beecher
Hooker. Congratulatory letters were read
from J. G. Whittier. William Lloyd Garrison,
George William Curtis, Senators Hoar of
Massachusetts, Sherman of Ohio, and Mander-
son, of Nebraska; Speaker Reed, Lucy Stone
Frances E. Willard, M. Louise Thomas, Rev.
Rush Shippen and Mrs. Henderson. Many
other letters were received which could not
be read for lack of time. Telegrams from
the Woman's Political Club of Rochester,
from the Ladies’ Unitarian Society of that city
and from the Woman's Union of Norway,
were read by Mrs. Harriet Stanton Blatch.
After a delightful evening, the company broke
up somewhere in the "wee sma" hours."


VIEWS ON COURTSHIP AND
MARRIAGE. 
BY DR. GEO. THOMAS DOWLING.
	Solomon says it is a good thing for a man
to secure a wife, but Paul says it is not always
good to be married. I would rather take the
advice of Solomon. Paul never had any
experience in marriage, but Solomon had
nine hundred wives. The best work in the
world has been done by married men.
	First under consideration comes courtship.
I would not give much advice on that, for I
never met any young people who needed any
instruction. The trouble with young people is
that they do not look at facts as they are.
They marry an idea. Adonis thinks it just an
accident that she chanced to marry him, and
Venus believes it was by the merest chance
that he happened to marry her. After
marriage, Venus sees Adonis come home from
his daily toil and lie in his shirt sleeves upon


the lounge, taking an evening nap and snoring
away, for all the world like her brother Tom.
He sees Venus in a calico dress, with her hair
rolled back in a tight little knot at the back
of her head, siting at the other side of the table
eating pork and beans, and probably conquer-
ing the second plate, and awakens to the fact
that she is just a good hearted mortal like
his sister Mary Ann. A courtship is like the
measles—people have it but once. If I were to
ask the question, “Is marriage a failure? I
would answer that it is only when the people
are failures. I believe in love, and love at
first sight; but, as a rule, I would advise a
second look. In nine hundred and ninety-nine
cases the first is no love at all. Then how
many marry upon surface recommendation,
because of graceful carriage, fine dancing,
smooth-gossip upon society affairs, or some such
thing. The best of worst fortune of a man
or woman is husband or wife. Mrs Browning
says:
		“A loving woman finds heaven or hell
		  In the day she becomes a bride.”
	A man may escape the troubles of an un-
fortunate union in his club and mixing in the
world, but for women there is no escape but
in the grave. If a man won’t reform before
marriage he may drag woman down, but
woman cannot drag him up. Woe to the
marriage where the god  who presides is
Cupidity instead of Cupid.  Mrs. Carlyle said,
“I married for ambition and though Mr.
Carlyle has reached hights I never dreamed
of, I am a miserable woman.” How does a
young man treat his mother? He will treat
you the same after the honey-moon has passed. 
What is hell but truths known too late. The
most trying period is that of the honey-moon.
Most divorce cases have their real origin
during the first year. People need to get into
the habit of being married just like getting
used to wearing new shoes. Do not interfere
between husband and wife. Sidney Smith
said, “Married people are like a pair of shears;
sometimes going in opposite directions, but
sure to cut any one coming between  them.”
If I could I would wipe out the word mother-
in law on account of its suggestions, but under
every popular prejudice there, is truth. There
should be a national marriage law. If a man
travels from Maine to California he can be
married, divorced, a bigamist or a bachelor
according to the state he is in. The trouble
in mismated marriages is that often the yoke is
not so burdensome as the pulling to get away
from it. Act at home as you do in a neighbor's
house to have a pleasant home life.


It was thought that there was not in the
United States any memorial of Christopher
Columbus.  One, however, has been found.
The consul general of France at Baltimore, in
1874, erected a column which bears the name 
of the discoverer.  He placed it in an obscure
place on his grounds, and when streets were
laid out it there remained, hidden from sight
by trees and shrubs.  It was almost forgotten
till recently, when it was brought to light.


A SAD BEREAVEMENT.

	It is with deep regret that I tender you the sad news of
three sweet little members of our Primary Association,
whom, our Heavenly Father has seen fit to call into His
presence.  The dreaded diphtheria which quarantined
many homes here for two months past, was the cause of
their demise, Dec. 23rd, 1889 Sanford B. Lewis a lovely
boy in his tenth year and only son of Sister Martha Ann
Lewis—January 9th 1890 also his younger sister Amy in
her eighth year.  Also January 21st, 1890, Joseph F.
Skidmore seven years old, son of our good, kind Bishop.
The parents and families have the sympathy of the entire
ward, while our feelings of tenderness as an Association
cannot be expressed in words.


The dearest, faithful little members,
		Will be missed in all our meetings,
	They make less, our happy numbers
		Who used to meet in fondly greetings.
	They are gone but hope is left us
		Of meeting them all again,
	For 'twas God who did bereave us
		He gives the hope, we'll e'er maintain.
					MARY ALLSOP, Pres.
					HARRIET LAWRENCE, Sec.
Primary Association, Richmond.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


OBITUARIES.

	On Monday 10-30 p. m. Dec. 20th, Sister Jane Johns-
ton Black of Deseret, departed this life, aged 89.
	Sister Black was the mother of four children, three sons
and one daughter, two sons of whom are now living.
	The various scenes of her pioneer life in Utah and those
attending her emigration from the Old Country are con-
nected with the lives of many Latter-day Saints.
	She encountered many hardships in the early settling of
Utah, and her greatest delight was in bearing a faithful
testimony of the Gospel and of Joseph Smith being a true
Prophet of God.
	She was driven across the Mississippi River by the mob
and upon one occasion she was hiding some fire arms
of the peoples, under the wagon wheel, when the mob rode
up and asked her what she was doing.  She answered
“that the Saints were to have power to resurrect, and
that was what she was doing.  They said the woman was
crazy and left her alone. There are many of her sex who
claim her as mother to them in sickness and trouble as she
always had words of encouragement and comfort for them.
In her last moments she expressed her great joy in being
with God's chosen people.	
	Her remains were shipped to Rockville, in Southern
Utah, to be buried beside those of her husband.
	She was a faithful member of the Relief Society and at-
tended her meetings until a few weeks before her death.
										Com.
	Deseret, Dec. 5th, 1889.

	Died at her parent’s residence in Deweyville on the 18th
of January, Emily Jane, beloved wife of James T. Lindsey,
and daughter of Bishop J. C. and Mary Dewey, aged 27
years next May.  She was a faithful Latter-day Saint and
one possessing many noble qualities of mind, kind, amiable
and benevolent which fained for her the [---]
of all who knew her.  She was the mother of four children
three of whom are living.  The husband has sustained a
great loss and has the sympathy of the entire settlement;
she was not only a devoted wife and kind mother, but one
that was loved to a great degree by her father, mother,
brothers and sisters, and all the members of a large family;
the sorrow that each felt at her death no one can realize
but those that are called to mourn.
	The funeral services were held at the Deweyville school
house on the 21st of January, and although the weather
was cold, still the friends of the deceased turned out
enmasse to pay a last token of respect to one so truly
loved.  She was also a member of the Relief Society and
First Counselor to the Pres. of the Primary Association in
Star Valley at her home.
	Consoling remarks were made by Counselor F. Durfee
and Elder C. Dunn of Deweyville, and also A. Burt and
Charles Kelley Counselors to the Pres. of Box Elder
Stake, after which her remains were conveyed to the
cemetery and laid to rest with a sure and certain hope of a
glorious resurrection.  Dedicatory Prayer was offered at
the grave by C Kelley.
		MARY DEWEY, Pres. Deweyville Relief Society.

	Among the good and true that have been gathered to
the silent tomb in this locality the past few months, none
has received greater expressions of gratitude and affection
than Sister Nancy E. Hall, who departed this life after
much suffering and lingering sickness.  Sister Hall was
borne near Jamestown, Russel Co., Kentucky, Feb. 23rd,
1826.  Was married to Edward Hall, Feb. 2nd, 1842.
Was baptized at Fort Kearney, July 5th, 1850, by Bishop
David Evans.  Arrived at Springville, March 10th, 1851,
where she resided until her death, which occured Jan. 24th,
1890.
	Kindness and sympathy towards suffering humanity has
been among the most prominent features of her life.  In
the cabin of the poor, or in the circles of the wealthy no
discrimination was shown.  Sunshine or storm, day or
night, Sister Hall was always on hand to act the part of 

[Column 2]
the "good Samaritan," ministering to the afflicted and
comforting the sorrowing.  Assisting at the birth of over
600 children, and clothed over 300 for the tomb.  She
was the mother of eleven children, grandmother to 56,
and great-grandmother to 17.  As a member of the Relief
Society, Sister Hall filled a very important position seeking
for her service neither fee nor reward in this life.  She has
gone with a record full of merit to her memory, that will
credit her a full reward and ample compensation for a
lifetime of usefulness and benefits bestowed by her
generous hands upon the suffering sons and daughters of
humanity.
					ANN D. BRINGHURST, Pres.
					SARAH L. MENDENHALL, Sec.


[Column 1]
[Union Pacific Logo: UNION PACIFIC
THE OVERLAND ROUTE]
Tickets
ON SALE
TO ALL
PRINCIPAL POINTS
EAST, WEST,
NORTH and SOUTH
—AT—
UNION TICKET OFFICE,
	Main Street, Salt Lake City.
		J. V. PARKER,
			Asst. Genl. Pass. Agt.

R.K. THOMAS
26, 28, 30 and 32 East 1st South St,
SALT LAKE CITY.
The Leading Retail
Cash House.
R.K. THOMAS

Special to the Ladies.
AT TEASDEL'S
Will be found the latest styles and productions
in
LACES, RUCHES, EMBRODERIES,
FANS, GLOVES, PARASOLS,
RIBBONS, COLLARS, TIES
And an elegant assortment of
DRY GOODS.
	Special department for Ladies' Misses’ and In-
fant’s Shoes.
			112, 114, 116, 118 East Temple Street

DAVID JAMES & CO.
TINNERS GAS, WATER & STEAM FITTERS
	Agent for RUMSEY'S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from
the country promptly responded to.		
	Address. DAVID JAMES, Box 305. SALT LAKE CITY.

[Column 2]
$5000.00 In Prizes
GIVEN AWAY
BY THE
SALT LAKE HERALD,
TO SUBSCRIBERS OF THE 
SEMI-WEEKLY ISSUE.

	The Semi-Weekly Herald is now the largest, brightest
and most enterprising paper published in Utah.  It
consists of 8 pages, and is shortly to be re-enlarged. The
Herald publishes the most standard current stories by
special arrangement with the authors; containing many
illustrated features; has the exclusive rights to Bill
Nye’s letters; maintains a regular telegraphic corres-
pondent in Washington, and receives weekly letters
from the celebrated correspondent Frank G. Carpenter.
Special attention is paid to market reports and agri-
cultural news; and a prominent feature will be made of
religious news, the tabernacle services being regularly
reported, while prominent sermons of the leading
church authorities are given in full. In politics, The
Herald stands as it has ever stood, the firm and un-
deviating champion of the rights of the people of Utah.

The Premium Distribution for 1890
Will be on a grander scale than ever before, 
FIFTEEN HUNDRED PRIZES,
Aggreating in value over $5000.00,
Being distributed among all subscribers to the Semi-
Weekly early in April.
Prize No. 1 is an upright Fischer piano, worth
	$500 cash.	
Prize No. 2 is a thoroughbred Holstein bull, 
	worth $200.
Prize No. 3 is a Bain wagon, worth $175.
Prize No. 4 is a lot in Garden City, worth $150.
Prize No. 5 is a yearling heifer, worth $125.
Prize No. 6 is a purse of $100 in gold, and in
	the list are several hundred dollars in gold
	in smaller purses, while included in the
	1500 prizes are sewing machines, mowers,
	reapers, rifles, photos, steel engravings,
	encyclopedias, toilet sets, fruit trees, shade,
	trees, dishes, stoves, books, etc., 
FIFTEEN HUNDRED IN ALL!
Which will be distributed among all who
subscribe for
THE SEMI-WEEKLY HERALD
Price $3.00 per year.
Send for a descriptive catalogue free.
Address
THE HERALD Co., Salt Lake.

	Officers:
	JOHN T. CAINE, President,
	HEBER J. GRANT, Vice-President.
	HORACE G. WHITNEY, Business Manager.
DIRECTORS: 	
FRANCIS ARMSTRONG,	W. H. ROWE,
W. W. RITER.				S. P. TEASDEL,
JUNIUS F. WEELS, 		HEBER M. WELLS,
RICHARD W. YOUNG, 	E. G. WOOLLEY,
CHAS S. BURTON, 		JAS. SHARP,
ELIAS A. SMITH.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.
