
WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.
VOL. 18.                  SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, JUNE 1, 1889.            No. 1.


THE DEAR OLD GARDEN.
My dear old garden! still I call it mine;
And mine it is, for in its grateful shade
Of ev'ry tree, and shrub, and flow'ring vine,
My children and my children's children play'd. 
Round these my aching heart instinctive clings,
And they to me are sweet and tender things.

Under those trees I've sauntered to and fro,
In search of hidden gems of precious thought,
Perchance some wayward fancies all aglow
Have been in chains of measur'd rhythm caught,
For rustling leaves, and sighing boughs have stirred
The depths of love, no loving voice hath heard.

And here young lovers, plighted vows have given,
And sealed them with the first fond ling'ring kiss,
That hallows love, and makes earth seem a heav'n,
A sweet enchanted dream of rapt'rous bliss
When two pure hearts in confidence and truth,
Unite their joys and hopes in early youth.

These trees and shrubs, and ev'ry bush and vine,
We've watched from tiniest seed and stem; 
Why then should I not always call them mine?
For in my heart of hearts I treasure them.
No matter how neglected now they be
They were a part of my home-life to me.
 
Yes, I remember sitting there so well,
With baby in my arms and children round;
And a sweet peace hung o'er me like a spell,
While the white blossoms flutter'd to the ground;
For the young apple trees were just in bloom,
And we were breathing in their sweet perfume.

O, how the childish voices loud and clear,
Rang out in laughter and in merry song;
No wonder that to me the place is dear,
To which so many memories belong,
O, would those days but come to me again 
'Twould ease my heart of all this racking pain.

O, little ones, 'mong the long tangled grass, 
Where butter cups and clover nestled down;
Or like a shadow flitting as you pass,
To gather hollyhocks in "silken gown." 
Or pull the morning glories from the vine
Which gaily round the fav'rite tree entwine. 

And honey suckles fragrant were and fair,
And on them humming birds swung to and fro,
But something fairer, sweeter still was there;
A little maiden, singing soft and low;
O, that melodious voice we hear no more,
Save in our dreams, it echoes o'er and o'er.  

My garden! when the world was dark and cold,
And troubles gather'd thickly round my way;
I wander'd there my feelings to unfold,
'Twas there I knelt upon the ground to pray.
In that old garden thro' the maze of years
I scan life's pages blur'd with mists of tears.
E. B. W.


[Column 1]

WOMAN'S INFLUENCE.

EDITOR EXPONENT:
	The Relief Society of Manti North Ward, is
still alive and striving, with unabated energy,
to do all the good that lies in their power. Our
President, Sister Wareham,said to me "write"
and I will endeavor to acquiesce to her
wishes. The pen wielded by a competent hand,
is "mightier than the sword," but in my feeble
grasp, and with my crude ideas may not amount
to much more than a last year's bird's nest.
	I am—as I think all women should be—
much interested in the question of Woman's
emancipation. How slow men are to concede

[Column 2]

any rights to women except the right to bear
children, to wash dishes, patch, darn, mend
&c. O, I have served my time at these glorious
occupations, and know whereof I speak.
	It is customary for "the lords of creation "in
an argument with women, to quote Paul rather
extensively. Paul says if a woman lack wis-
dom" &c. Paul says "it is a shame" &c. Yes
I know it is a shame, and we feel the shame-
fulness of our position as relegated to us by
the men, and ashamed of our backwardness in
asserting the privileges God intended us to
enjoy.
	I am aware that "Paul" says a great many
good things, and now let us ask, Who was
Paul? In the first place Paul was a Roman,
second an educated lawyer, third he was a
bachelor as we learn from reading, 1st. Cor.,
7th Chap. 7th and 8th verses, fourth he tells
us in his defence before Agrippa that he was
"raised a Pharisee" in the strictest sense of the 
word, and last we know, he did not enjoy that
constant and elevating association with Jesus,
which the other apostles were privileged to en-
joy, and, which might have softened, or slightly
ameliorated his views toward women. Men also
quote Peter where he says "Wives obey your
husbands even as Sarah obeyed Abraham."
How did Sarah obey Abraham? We read that
Sarah wanted Abraham to do something that
was "very grievous" to him, and that God said
unto him, "In all that Sarah hath said unto
thee, hearken unto her voice," and Abraham 
did accordingly; comment is unnecessary. We
will pass by many of the generous, forgiving
brotherly sayings of Jesus to the women men-
tioning only two. When He tarried at the
house of Mary and Martha, (I am only a Martha
but am endeavoring to prepare myself to fill
the sphere of a Mary) Martha being relegated
to the kitchen, with a heavy task before her as
Jesus seldom traveled alone, and in all proba-
bility the company to be entertained was a
large one, and doubtless a hungry one, and
Martha being "cumbered with much serving"
asked Jesus to send Mary to assist her. And
Jesus answerd, "Martha, Martha, thou art care-
ful and troubled about many things. But one
thing is needful Mary hath chosen the better
part and it shall not be taken away from her."
Why was Mary's presence so desirable in the
parlor? Her vivacity, her sallies of wit, her
buoyant spirits, her gaiety, her sprightliness,
her dignified demeanor, the depths of her
reasoning powers, all lent a charm, when
mingled with the more sober aspect of those
devout men, that they were loth to dispense
with; in fact she was the light and life of that
august company.
	Follow Him to the cross, and were not some
of his latest expressions of thoughtful tender-
ness, addressed to the women?
	Again, at the tomb, on the morn of His
resurrection. Who was the first person ad-
dressed by Him? A woman. Who received
the first mission to "Tell the glad tidings." A
woman!  I expect in these last days to again
hear of Women being sent to "tell the glad
tidings," when He comes again.
	And let the women prepare themselves for
this glorious call, it will surely come when
Jesus does. And may it be my happy lot to
be found with my lamp trimmed and burning
is the prayer of a woman who is still in her,
		A. B. C,s.
	March 18th, 1889.


HEPHZIBAH.

1  Introduction

	"Truth is stranger than fiction."

	When the artist would paint a picture,
whether it is to be ideal, or a scene from nature,
he collects material, draws an outline sketch,
coloring it as he proceeds with his work, touch
ing it here and there, viewing it in all lights,
shading, or softening according to his fancy,
making it a study and an art. He has posi-
tive material to work with, and also his own
delicate sense of the beautiful to aid him in
his pleasant task. It is the exquisite taste and
skill, with which he combines and links to-
gether substances with thoughts, that give
beauty and tone to the picture.
	The author has no such actual helps in
beautifying and embellishing his work; it is
simply all thoughts, intermingled with fancies
or remembrances, perhaps faint as shadows.
These blended with realities form the pen-pic-
ture, but the design is only in the mind, and
all the solid work must be done by his own
brain. Ideas emanating largely from fancy
wrought into pictures of real life, but all in a
very imperceptible form, until they are, by the
delicate and diligent aid of the author, caught
in their airy flight and placed on paper by the
helpful aid of pen and ink.
	It is a picture of this kind the writer now
undertakes to sketch. The planning, design-
ing and embellishing, all has to be done in
the mind's eye ere it is engraven on paper.
The materials are only fragments culled from
memory's worn and defaced tablets, woven
together with the fine spun thread of imagina-
tion in the golden loom of fancy. If the pic-
ture be true to life, there will be some heavy
dark shading, yet here and there a ray of
sunlight with mellow tinges; occasionally a
storm will sweep over the scene and from its
very intensity will be almost perceptible;
then, too, there will be singing birds, and
babbling brooks, and murmuring seas with
tides coming in, and many things odd and
strange, yet withal some touches of pathetic
sweetness; the holy calm of summer twilight,
mooulight scenes, and stars peeping out in the
distance, like bright harbingers of future hope.
Whatever of a study the story may be, it will
be more real than ideal, more American than
foreign, more modern than antique, and the
readers interest may thus be somewhat inten-
sified.

	A village nestled down among the hills,
		With quaint old fashion'd houses low and brown;
	And picture-like some old neglected mills,
		In days gone by, the pride of all the town.

	In one of the inland towns of the old Bay
State, half a century ago, there was situated
an exceedingly romantic little village. A rural
picture, nestled down among the rocky hills in
a hollow, that had once been a thickly wooded
dell. Around it on the South and West rose
gentle undulating fields where sleek cattle
grazed, sheep nibbled, and young calves and
lambs frisked and gamboled in innocent glee,
for very joy of living. Wild flowers bloomed
in shady nooks and by the winding brooks;
northward it was sheltered by a heavy timbered
woodland, that rose steep and high; and trees
the growth of centuries stood in their proud
magnificence, the monarchs of the forest.
Hard maple, oak, birch, and pine, grew there
in great abundance, and from these leafy woods


[Column 1]

the sawmills further up among the hills were
well supplied. Eastward stretched out in the
distance, long lines and broad plains of rich
meadow and pasture lands; and afar off one
might discern the Church spires and peaked
roofs of the houses in another sleepy old town.
It was not a noisy bustling village, bnt staid
and restful. One could well fancy that old,
old echos still lingered in the hills, and the
people were too "proper" to waken them; there
was such method and precision in everything;
and the women always spoke low and gently,
in soft modulated tones. There were a few un-
pretentious houses, most of them low, and old,
and brown; an old furnace and forge, the de-
light of the village boys; but the principal
feature of the place was an old woolen mill,
situated in the centre of the little cluster of
dwellings, on a clear placid stream of water
that bounds over its rocky bed, on through the
town. Twenty years before the mill was run-
ning "full time" and paid well, employing
three score of hands; the old furnace too, was
bright and glowing then, a brawny arm up-
lifted, and the sound of the hammer at the
forge, the sparks flying hither and yon, gave
life and activity to the scene.
	The times had changed. The old settlers
whose industry and thrift, had turned the
wilderness into fields and gardens, had grown
care-worn and tired, or were sleeping in qniet
resting places in the church-yard near by.
Many of the young, ambitious sons in the
pride of manhood, had gone fortune-hunting
into new localities, where there were other lands
to subdue and make fertile; or weary of the
quiet atmosphere that brooded over their na-
tive village, had grown restless and sought the
bustle of the great, busy world, in some large
city or enterprising town, and so the old mill
stood still.
	The children wondered why the great
building was empty and forsaken, and
thought how splendid it would be to see the
large, old fashioned wheels that seemed so lazy,
turn over and over in the deep still water, send-
ing it dashing and foaming over their ponder-
ous sides. It was not strange that the children
queried and asked numberless questions, for it
was a curious old place, and rumors were afloat
no one knew from whence they came, that the
old mill was haunted, that at night witches
met there to hold high revelry. But somehow
the children did not seem to be afraid, and
were never forbidden to play there.
	Adjoining the mill was a carding machine
which still did regular duty; turning out in
great abundance the soft, white rolls that
were spun on the great wheels in all the
country houses, by the domesticated pretty
girls. Young ladies then, were quite as proud
of their skill in spinning, knitting, and house-
hold employments, as our modern mesdemoi-
selles are of their music and drawing. Tripping
back and forth, to and from the spinning wheel,
drawing out the soft, fleecy rolls, through the
pretty taper fingers, shows of one's hands as
well, and figure more, than sitting at the
piano.
	The handsome, little wheels for spinning
tow and linen, were really beautiful, and the
ideal picture of a lady spinning flax, twirling
her pretty distaff, between her slender fingers,
her dainty foot upon the treadle has been the
theme of poetry and of song. Some writers
tell us our Puritan grandmothers were very
"plain folk," but methinks they were also very
proud.
	The mill had been built at an early period,
in the settlement of the village, and in fact
had been the origin of the couutry itself; for
one by one, the people had gathered there, to
get employment in the factory Now the
owner and proprietor had retired from the busy
pursuits of active life, and the mill was allowed
to stand idle. The master was weary with

[Column 2]

many years, and in the "paternal mansion" he
sat and rested from his arduous labors. Long
after he had withdrawn from the daily voca-
tions once so diligently pursued, he still enter-
tained his friends and neighbors in the most
hospitable fashion at the old farm house. He
never wearied of reciting over and over again,
to his guests, stories of his life; how his father
came there a boy, when the country was new
and wild. His family had been large
land-owners in the city of Boston, but as the
town was enlarged, and the population in-
creased, they sold their land, piece by piece,
and came into the back woods to settle, where
there was more room and less temptation, for
a large family of boys, and subsequently they
had built the mill. He delighted in recount-
ing the hardships and privations of pioneer
life; and dwelt upon his father's hatred of the
British, and the Roman Catholics.
	No wonder he was proud of liberty, for he
had fought bravely for it in perilous places,
and had endured much privation and fatigue.
To him freedom was dearer than life; to ob-
tain that precious boon he had faced death at
the point of the bayonet. His favorite phrase,
which he very frequently repeated to his child-
ren and friends, was one familiar to all Ameri-
can citizens, "Taxation, without representation
is tyranny." The honors conferred upon him,
he considered fairly earned, and was proud of
his handsome uniform, and heavy clumsy
sword, which he always exhibited on training
days. His military air on such occasions quite
awed the children, and they looked upon him
with a degree of reverence mingled with en-
thusiasm, for what heart does not beat a little
faster, when the drums beat and the soldiers
parade, that has the blood of the patriots in
its veins. But the most interesting of all the
old Major's stories, especially to the young
folks, was how his father fell in love with the
daughter of a General in the British army;
and as he expressed it, his magnificent figure,
his manliness and courage, made him master
of the situation, and he won his sweetheart,
in despite of the high sense of filial duty she
entertained, and her aristocratic father's 
remonstrances. Differences were cast aside, 
and distinctions leveled by the magical charm
of true love, and when the war was over, and
the armies of the king had been vanquished,
the haughty General returned to his native
shore, leaving his only daughter, the heir to
his wealth, and the pride of his ancestral home,
with her unsophisticated "Yankee" husband.
	The officer's daughter had received superior
educational advantages, and her accomplish-
ments were far beyond those of the country
girls among whom her lot had been cast; but
she never manifested the least consciousness of
the fact; she had married the man of her
choice, and gracefully adapted herself to the
habits and customs of the people, who were
from henceforth to be her people. A genuine
lady born and bred, she assumed no rights or
privileges more than her neighbor; but bore
herself modestly as wife and mother, honoring
the position she had gladly accepted.
	She played the harp and sung like
a bird; and her costly silks and
creamy laces, which she wore with such an air
of refinement, were the admiration of the
ladies all the country round. It is need-
less to recount her good deeds, her heart was
generous, and her lord was rich, and their
bounties were liberally dispensed.
	It was during their young married life that
the old factory was built, and the village
grew, "in a manner speaking," and prosperity
and success domestic, and financial, attended
the happy couple. He was tall and strong,
and she was so petite that she could standwith-
out stooping under his outstretched arm.
	[TO BE CONTINUED.]


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


ADDRESS TO Y. L. M. I. A.

	Dear sisters and co-workers.—With much
interest I sit down to express some of my feel-
ings and thoughts; I hope all my sisters feel
well in attending their meetings and all associa-
tions, trying to do all they can. I can truly
say that I feel well in attending my meetings,
and feel to do all in my power to help roll on
this work.
	We should not go to any meeting, Sunday
or Fast-day, or what ever meeting it may be,
just for the sake of going, but go with the in-
tention to learn, to bear our testimonies, and
profit by the good counsel given us from time
to time. Let us cultivate the spirit of love
towards each other.
	I fully believe the young sisters of this ward
are striving to do all the good they can, and
we should continue to strive for the upbuild-
ing of the kingdom of God. If we would
but reflect and think of the great work we are
engaged in, we would appreciate our blessings
more. See how the out-siders are gathering
around us, we do not know how long we shall
be permitted to worship in peace, but let us
have faith in the Lord, and keep his command-
ments; be kind to our parents who have gone
through so much tribulation, driven from
house to house, from place to place; slept with
their clothes on for fear of mobs etc., and con-
sider how the Prophet Joseph and others have
been persecuted for the sake of their religion,
we may come to this, but let us trust in the
Lord, put away the follies of the world, and
set our minds to doing good, to usefulness, and
try to do things that we know are pleasing to
the Lord; helping our president and counselors,
so that our associations may be a success in
very deed.
		Your sister in the covenant.
			ELNORA COX.
	Secretary of the West Hooper Association.


NOTES AND NEWS.

	Rev. Mr. Pitblado spoke on woman suffrage
in Unity Hall, Hartford, Conn., Tuesday, May 14.
	It is reported that there are now six women
police officers in London, and seven more are
to be appointed.
	The Connecticut House of Representatives
has defeated the proposed conititutional amend-
ment striking the word "male" out of the consti-
tution.
	Miss Rose Elizabeth Cleveland is going
abroad in June, and is said to have accepted a
position in a young women's boarding school
in London.
	 Queen Christina, of Spain,, has promised
her support to the anti-slavery campaign in
Africa. The Spanish Society has work near
its own doors, as slaves of both sexes are
brought from the interior of North Africa and
sold in the open markets of Morocco.
	Glorious news from Michigan! The muni-
cipal woman suffrage bill passed the House of
Representatives on Wednesday, May 15, at
3.15 P. M., by 25 majority. A special dispatch
from Mrs. May S. Knaggs gives the vote as
yeas, 58; nays, 33. There is great rejoicing in
Lansing over this signal victory.—Ex.
	"Mrs. Emily Pfeiffer's new volume of poems,
"Flowers of the Night," the publication of
which was interrupted by the stroke which fell
upon her in the death of her husband in Jan-
uary last," was probably issued in London last
month. "It is known that Mr. Pfeiffer, who was
a man of varied accomplishments, was virtu-
ally the editor of his wife's works, which
passed out of her hands into his almost as soon
as committed to paper. In accordance with his
wishes, the issue of "Flowers of the Night" is
resumed by his widow at the earliest possible
moment."


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


IF ONLY.

Gone, yes gone forever,
	To another, brighter home;
And I shall see her never
	Though o'er the world I roam.
If only, oh, if only
	For one moment, I might gaze
Through the curtains of the heavens
	Just to gaze upon her face.
If only, oh if only
	The heavens could be torn,
Just for one moment's gladness,
	While I gaze upon her form.
If only, oh, if only
	I could see, through yon bright sky,
My own, my lost beloved,
	Oh, how gladly would I die.

Gone, yes gone, and never
	Shall I see my loved one's face.
And yet beside me ever
	Seems her spirit, full of grace.
If only, oh, if only
	I believed it could be true
And my darling's soul was near me
	As I roam the wide world through.
If only, oh, if only
	All the dreary, lonely days,
Her spirit were beside me
	Casting forth its sainted rays.
If only, oh, if only
	I believed her soul was by,
I could live and still be happy
	And I should not long to die.

		HENRI.


DISCOURAGED.

Discouraged; discouraged, when life is so short?
	O, be not discouraged to-day!
The road may be wearisome, thorny, and rough,
	But it leads to a heavenly way.
There is sorrow and heart-ache enough to endure,
	There is waiting, and mourning, and death;
There are storm clouds that darken the sun's healing
	rays,
There are flowers that fade at a breath.

There are hearts that are broken, and desolate homes,
	And idols that prove to be clay,
But beyond the dark pathway is heaven's sweet rest—
	There is joy at the end of the way.

Though you see not your God in the darkness and
		storm,
	In the cleft of the rock still abide,
And wait; when the tempest of anguish is past
	You will hear His "still voice" at your side.

Then be not discouraged, nor falter in life,
	Faint not and you surely will win;
Put on the whole armor and stand to your post,
	And help fight the battle with sin.	

No matter though feet have grown tired in the way
	And hands seem as heavy as lead,
Though flowers have faded in earth's summer time
	And bright hopes lie withered and dead,

The flowers that have perished shall bloom in the
		skies,
	Tired hands the palm branches bear,
And they who through  "great tribulation" have come
	The spotless white raiment shall wear.

What matter to you if earth's music is gone
	And the heart-strings are ready to break. 
For earth's broken chords shall be gathered in heaven,
	And rapturous strains shall awake.

So tired? Oh, yes! but look up and away,
	The journey is not very long;
The mourning and tears will all end by and by
	In a shout of victorious song.

Then be not discouraged, but take up your cross,
	And bear it in patience to-day;
The steep, rocky path ends in glory beyond—
	There is joy at the end of the way,

		MRS. H. F. THOMAS.
	Hearth and Hall.


[Column 1]

PRIMARIES AND MAY DAY.

EDITOR EXPONENT:
	I submit a few items from this far away place.
Thinking they may be of some interest to some
of your many readers. Our Societies, Pri-
maries, etc., in this part of the country, are, so
far as I know, in a prosperous condition.
	Sister Hannah Romney, who was set apart
by Brother Teasdale, two and a half years ago
to take charge of the primary in Juarez,
served well and faithfully in that capacity uutil
last March, when she resigned on account of
moving away, when Sister Margaret Seevy was
called to fill her place, she and Sister Annie
Ikonsen having been able counselors to Sister
Romney, much good has been accomplished,
and quite an interest taken, especially through
the past winter since the efficient services of
Sister Victoria Pratt have been secured to
teach the children to sing.
	The parents as well as the children gave ex-
pression to the love and respect felt for their
late president; and their appreciation of her
faithful labors, by giving her a very enjoyable
surprise party just prior to her leaving; it was
on the 15th, of March. When nearly all the
town, both old and young, had assembled at the
school house, to witness a school exhibition the
closing day of the term; the exercises passed
off in a very creditable manner to both teacher
and pupils; at the close of which the people
were invited to stay; the house was hastily
cleared, and two long tables the length of the
room set, at which 175 sat down to a bounteous
repast, prepared by a few of our energetic
sisters, including the present officers of the
Primary. It proved to be a genuine surprise,
and as Sister Romney expressed herself there
was one feature in particular which just suited
her feelings viz., the children were all seated
first and the grown people waited on them, and
afterward comprised the second table, which
usually falls to the lot of the little ones. The
table was adorned with a very nice bouquet
and wreath, made for Sister Romney and after
dinner it was presented by some of the little
girls to their late President.
	Since moving to Cliff Ranch, a small branch
of the Juarez Ward, she has been called on to
preside over the little Primary of that place,
with Sister Martha Williams of the adjoining
ranch as assistant, and Sister Victoria Pratt,
who also moved to the same place, to resume
her good labor among the children, so that at
present it is prospering nicely, and is attended
by every woman and child in the little settlement
except the large boys who can't be spared from
the field, and the Sunday School includes all
the men, women, and children, as the parents
seem to realize the necessity of setting a good
example before their children in these little
nooks and corners. A Primary has been or-
ganized at Cave Valley with Sister Olive
Moffet, President, and a Relief Society for our
little settlements combined, with Sister Dora
Pratt as President.
	On "May Day," nearly all of the sisters, and
children of all sizes, with a few of the brethren,
who could spare the time at this busy season,
from Cave Valley and Cliff Ranch, met half
way between the two places, at Williams
Ranch, where they were cordially greeted by
the three families living there, and a very
pleasant time was spent in the pine grove under
the supervision of the Primary presidents.
The time was spent in various games and
amusements, picnic, songs, dialogues and reci-
tations, and crowning of the May Queen, Miss
Alta Williams, with a garland of nature's
sweetest of offerings, beautiful violets, daisies,
and other sweet white flowers with every shade 
of green. Our celebration was a grand suc-
cess as a day of enjoyment. The only disap-
pointment being that music did not arrive 
in time to finish up with a dance.

[Column 2]

	 I understand that a nice time was also en-
joyed at Juarez on this day.
		I am as every your well wisher.
			A CORRESPONDENT.
	Sierra Madre Mountains, Mexico, May 9, '89.


W. S. A. OF UTAH.

TO THE GENERAL READERS OF THE
EXPONENT.
	I am pleased to note the steps that have been
taken by the women of Zion. It denotes in the
near future a more thorough understanding
with the women of this nation, and, I may say
of other nations; we have long been misunder-
stood, but, by being connected with them
through their Association, it is bound to break
the barier between us, and, an interest, if not
an investigating spirit will toke possession of
them at least in a greater or less degree. Al-
though I do not think it will materially alter
affairs with us as Latter-day Saints (unless it
is to restore to us our franchise,) for as a rule
the "Mormon Women" enjoy a freedom of
speech,and in no place are women curtailed by
"the monster man" as little as in Utah, and
with but few exceptions they feel they have the
sustenance of their husbands, fathers and
brothers. Of course there is occasionally an
exception to this rule, where men think a wo-
man's place is in the kitchen, and extends no
farther than the chip yard, but in sickness, or
absence from home, that self-same woman is
expected to take up those duties and carry them
along as smoothly and intelligently as if her
Leige Lord had always taken a delight in
counseling and instructing her. The majority
of the "Mormon" women have taken but very
little interest in political affairs, the day is nigh
when they will have to inform themselves;
there is a great field for improvement, for
wherever these associations are organized they
will necessarily have to study in order to fill
their positions and keep up with the times.
We will no doubt note a marked difference in
a few years where these organizations are es-
tablished and where they are not.
	I see no reason why the "Mormon" women
should not be snccessful in this new field,surely
you cannot find a more intelligent set of women,
and with study, and determination, and the
Lord to quicken their understanding, there is
no obstacle but what they can surmount.
Sisters let us go to with an energy aud zeal
worthy of such a cause and add to our store-
house of knowledge, and not have it said of us
we had a chance to benefit humanity but did
not avail ourselves of the opportunity.
	Yours in the cause of "Woman's Rights"
		JOSIE E. CHILDS.
	Orangeville, Utah.


MAY DAY HYDE PARK.

	The Primary Association of Hyde Park,
Cache Co., had a May Day celebration
Wednesday, May 1st. A full house assem-
bled; the children and young ladies arrayed
in white and flowers, made a fine picture.
The singing and music were pleasantly ren-
dered. Of course they had their May Queen,
who carried her honors, and dispensed her
favors with graceful dignity. A few words
of approval to children, and thanks and coun-
sel to parents were spoken by Counselor Emma
Pike and Mrs. E. L. Crowther of Logan.
	The closing remarks were made by their
Bishop. A lovely dance was given the child-
ren in the afternoon, and one in the evening
for the older ones. Much credit is due Presi-
dent Kirby and her assistauts. The brass
band turned out, and made such good music,
that even the old folks wanted to dance.
	Reported by,
		E. L. CROWTHER.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS,	Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah. Terms:
one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months, 50 cts. No
reduction made for clubs. City papers delivered by mail,
extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space, one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal discount
to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, No. 25 E., South Temple Street, second
gate east of Deseret News Office. Business hours from 10 a.m
to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
		PUBLISHER WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
			SALT LAKE CITY. UTAH.

	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
Second Class Matter.

SALT LAKE CITY,	JUNE 1, 1889.


[Column 1]

THE WOMAN'S PAPER.

	The WOMAN'S EXPONENT was issued on the
first day of June, 1872—Seventeen years ago—the
day being chosen for its coming forth in honor of
the birthday of Brigham Young who was always
its staunch friend and advocate. He expressed
himself on one occasion to the writer as wishing
it to be kept in its original form, and referred to
the Millennial Star, saying he had always been
glad that the size and form of the paper had been
kept the same, and he wished that to be an ex-
ample for the EXPONENT, or words to that effect.
We are aware that there are many of our readers
who view this matter differently, and have been
anxious to see the homely little paper in better
dress and style, and in the form and keeping of a
magazine of literature. But the EXPONENT is for
the benefit, education and development of thought
of all the sisters in the Church, and to make it
correspond to the needs of the largest number,
and adapt it to their conditions and circumstances
has ever been the object of the editor. We admit
that it was our wish to make the EXPONENT a
weekly, and keep the price the same, but that, we
found at present, to be impracticable, and there-
fore decided to reduce the price in order to in-
crease the circulation which we hope may be a
successful venture, and feel that it ought to be,
as it is the only paper in the Territory published
at a dollar a year. Also at present, the only
woman's paper.
	Since the woman's paper has first been pub-
lished it has certainly been a power and an influ-
ence for good among the people. Many are the
testimonies we have received of its doing a good
missionary work, outside in the world, and in
many a lonely cottage in the new settlements and
colonies it has carried joy and comfort with it, and
it has certainly been the means of developing much
talent among our sisters. There are those men
and women, who are now among the ablest authors
in the Territory who published their first efforts in
the EXPONENT. And there are many important
reasons why it should be better sustained. It
contains the history of the organizations of the
women of the Church, and in a great measure the
history of women themselves, and it also em-
bodies the expression of the thoughts, feelings
and convictions of the majority of the sisters.
	The Mormon women are considerably known
through the EXPONENT. It tells of them, and
speaks forcibly in the hands of the strangers.
Much truth has been inculcated through its
pages, and from strangers who have obtained
copies while visiting here, we have often received
letters of inquiry asking for further information.
Whatever awakens thoughts upon "Mormonism"
is assuredly worth cultivating. The humblest
sister has the opportunity to bear her testimony

[Column 2]

to the world in its columns; and this written
testimony cannot be in vain. It is a portion of
good seed sown, and perchance some of it may
fall in rich soil, and spring up and bear fruit to
the honor and glory of God.
	The cultivation of literature in every age of the
world and among every people is one of the chief
sources of refinement and advancement. Time
was when it was not considered proper for women
to edit papers or write for them; but that day has
past, and at the present time there are quite a
number of papers, and solely devoted to Woman's
Work and Advancement. And every person who
desires to see the women of Zion make rapid pro-
gress in knowledge and intelligence, should re-
member that much of this is done through the
press. There is far too little attention given to
home reading and home conversation upon topics
of interest. If much more time was devoted to
educational culture, and much less to frivolous
games and nonsensical talk, the wisdom of this
generation would be increased, and more lofty
and sublime ideas find expression, in language
that would be exalting and purifying in its tones.
	With the new volume of the EXPONENT, let us
hope for an increase of interest in woman's de-
partment of literature, and the sisters' aid in sus-
taining that, which is for their own special benefit
and advantage, and to give them scope and op-
portunity to express views, opinions, and truths,
on all the variety of subjects that are suited to
their tastes, inclinations and circumstances.
	We trust the Presidents of the Relief Society
in all the several branches, will use their influence
to extend the circulation, and help the agents to
perform their duties in this respect, and if they
do, it will be an easy matter for all concerned.
Many hands make light work.


PRIMARY CHILDRENS' DAY.

	The first day of June is a sort of red letter day
among the Latter-day Saints, on account of its
having been the day when Brigham Young was
born. In his life time his family were in the habit
of celebrating it in some way in which all could
participate, and since his death some recognition
of it has been made by them, when it was at all
practicable, to bring the family together.
	For a few years past the Primary Associations
have made some sort of demonstration on that day
throughout the Stakes of Zion, and it has become
so general as to be spoken of as the Primary
Childrens' Day. It is a very proper thing for
them to make this a general holiday even in pre-
ference to May Day as in this climate the first of
May is almost too cold to admit of climbing the
hills for wifd-flowers or having any out-door exer-
cises. The firsts of June is usually warm and
bright and the flowers are in the height of bloom
and perfection of sweetness.
	This year the children in Salt Lake Stake have
been disappointed in their day on account of the
Young Men's having appointed their annual
conference to commence then and engaging the
services of two or three hundred of the children
under Brother Stephens training to sing for them.
However they will not be deprived of the pleasure
of a day in Liberty Park as it has been arranged
to gather the children of Salt Lake Stake there
on the following Saturday, June 8th, a band of
music will be engaged to play, and there will be
exercises and games for their amusement, and it
will no doubt be a gala day to the little ones.
President Ellen C. Clawson and her Counselors
and a select committee will have general supervi-
sion and will spare no pains to make it.a complete
success. The different Primary Associations must
provide suitable persons to take special charge of
the children so that there will be no danger from
carelessness or accidents, and the President and
her committee will be relieved of any anxiety in
reference to these matters.


EDITORIAL NOTES.

	We have also received an exquisite bouquet of
mountain wild flowers that gladdened the eye and
brought up many tender memories. These were
the gift of Miss Annie Christiansen of Farming-
ton.
	We acknowledge with much pleasure the gift of
a box of choice flowers and among them a perfect
fig on its stem, from Mrs. M. O. Kelting of
Southern California. The perfume was so intense
that its sweetness filled the house. Many thanks
for the delicate favor.
	On Tuesday 7th, of May in company with
President Zina D. H. Young of this City, and
Sisters Sarah S. Richards and Hattie C. Brown
of Ogden we visited Hooper, Weber County, to
attend a meeting of the Relief Society, Mrs.
Adeline Belnap presiding. There was a good at-
tendance of the sisters in the vicinity though the
day was disagreeable which very likely hindered
many from coming, We dined at Bishop Belnap's
and enjoyed the visit there very much on account
of meeting there one of the illustrious women of
the early days in the Church, Sister Mary Knight
widow of Vincent Knight mentioned in the Book
of Doctrine and Covenants. We also had an in-
teresting conversation about Mexico with Brother
Stowell who drove the carriage over from Ogden
with Sisters Richards and Brown and took us to
and from Hooper Switch to our destination.
	On the 24th of May Bishop Millen Atwood of
the 13th Ward, attained the age of seventy-two
years. And in his honor, the young people of
the Ward under the care and management of his
Counselor, Nelson Empey, prepared a party for
him; and all was arranged so quietly, that it
proved a perfect surprise, and the affair was in-
deed a complete success, and very enjoyable.
The tables were handsomely decorated with 
flowers, and the refreshments were dainty and
tempting. President Wilford Woodruff and Pre-
sident Geo. Q. Cannon were present, and each
made a few congratulatory remarks. Apostle F.
D. Richards pronounced the blessing upon the
food, which was gracefully served by the young
ladies of the ward. There had been a programme
prepared for the evening including an address by
Dr. Barney, which we will give in our next issue.
Meantime, the EXPONENT extends hearty  con-
grattulations to the venerable Bishop, with many
happy birthday anniversaries in the future.
	We have examined the work entitled "Treasure
House of Useful Knowledge," compiled and
edited by Henry B. Scrammell, assisted by experts
in every deparment. It most assuredly is mul-
turn in parvo, and would be a most useful book in
the household. It is divided into six general
departments, which include specific, brief instruc-
tion in a sort of practical way. First, Chemistry
and Health; Second, Domestic Life; Third, Farm
Interests; Fourth, Mechanical Arts; Fifth, Mer-
cantile Life; Sixth, Refinements. Under these
several headings will be found much valuable in-
formation, given in a way that will perhaps save
one desiring to look up the matter, going over
half a dozen volumes. In these days, when time
seems so important a factor, a book of this kind
ought to sell well. Prices. $3.50; plain cloth
binding; $4.00; gilt cloth binding; $4.75, half 
morroco, library. The book contains 1,616 pages,
and is in excellent plain type for reading. H. A.
Hess has the general agency for the Territory.
	On Friday, April 26th, 1889, at 4.p.m. the an-
nual meeting of the Primary Association of the
13th Ward was held in the Assembly Rooms.
Miss Kate Wells presiding. Singing, "The
Childrens Song Prayer," and Bishop Atwood
offered the opening prayer; children sang "Song
of the Seasons." Minutes read, and accepted.


Programme, "Address to the Primary" Johnnie
Merrill. Song, Irene Merrill. Questions on the
first Primary answered by Ray Grant; Essay on
"Truth," Charlie Peterson.  Song, Agnes Kenner,
"Rockaby Baby," accompaniment by Miss Strom-
berg. Questions asked by Miss Agnes McDonald
answered by the children. Recitation Lettie
Carter, "Let the old cat die." Song, Lilie and
May Burt. Dialogue "The Mormon Missionary,"
Misses Aggie McDonald, May Merrill, Charlie
A. Wells, Gertie Peterson C. Reading and Victor
Stromberg. Remarks were made by Sisters
Lilie Freeze, Ellen C. Clawson, Zina D. H.
Young. The children sang, "We are the children
of the Saints," then brief addresses from Sisters
B. W. Smith, E. B. Wells and Relief C. Atwood.
Sang, "Let us all speak kind words to each other,"
dismissed with prayer by the Bishop. There has
been a very decided improvement in this Associa-
tion during the last few years, and the President
and her aids are deserving of great credit for their
zeal and earnestness in training the little ones
in the paths of duty and obedience and correct
principles. A noble and grand labor for the young
women of Zion.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

KEEP US FROM FALLING.

	Our Savior says "Whatever is highly esteemed
among men is an abomination in the sight of
God." And to "Seek first for the kingdom of
heaven and all other things shall be added there-
to. For what shall it profit a man if he shall gain
the whole world, and lose his own soul? Or what
shall a man give in exchange for his soul?"
	Surrounded, and mixed up with the world aud
its temptations which are calculated to draw the
mind, and affections away from that path which
the Lord has marked out, into forbidden ones that
lead down to eternal misery, and to endure the
scoffs and derisions of the proud, be hated of
all men, persecuted, imprisoned, and slain for
seeking to live the religion of Christ, requires a
strength and determination unknown among the
modern professors of Christianity. The Latter-
day Saints have learned that to be saved requires
something more than merely to believe on Jesus,
that faith without works is dead, and also that it
is a life-time work to become fit for the kingdom
of heaven. Though the cost may be taken into
consideration by the converts, previous to going
down into the waters of baptism, it is impossible
for them to realize the extent of the trials, and sac-
rifices which the Lord will require at their hands
before they can become pure and spotless in His
sight, to be fitted and prepared to enter into His
rest. More particularly is this the case when they
are filled with the first love of the gospel. For
the Holy spirit makes one feel that no trial or
temptation can be too great for them to meet and
overcome. But in the day of adversity, when
that spirit is withdrawn, when they are over-
whelmed in the darkest clouds of temptation, and
heavy waves of sorrow and tribulation roar and
dash with hopeless fury upon the frail and help-
less beings, mistrusting themselves, and fearing,
and trembling lest they be swept away, then they
begin to realize more fully what it costs to be a
saint.
	Those who are firm in the faith know that God
who created every living thing, and planned the
redemption and restoration of every soul, can
willingly trust Him, knowing that He will place
no more upon them than He will give them grace
to bear, and that He tries them only according to
their capacity to endure. He has commissioned
angels who will intercede for His children and
ever stand beside them in the hour of danger, and
affliction, unless their acts are such as to grieve
and drive them away. He has given to all their
free agency, and it is every one's privilege to act
upon that agency. We all have an individual
work to perform, and it is to our own interest

[Column 2]

that we work to this end, and bear in mind, this
fact that our Maker has ordained, and made us
subject to the weaknesses of the flesh to keep us
humble. And that it is not for one to boast above
another, or say "I am more righteous than thou."
For though we may be comparatively free from
certain faults that we see in a brother or sister, it
is not improbable that we are given to just as
great, and may be greater ones. And this should
cause us to examine, and dig deep into our own
hearts for those evils, which perchance are hidden
from our sight while they are being freely dis-
cussed by our neighbors. Remembering that
though we do right in all other things and lack
charity we will be rejected by our Father in the
day of His coming, We may well ask how much
longer are we to be chastened to bring us to that
oneness which is required,and must exist through-
out the length and breadth of the church of God
in fulfilment of the great and marvelous plan of
salvation, and redemption, which we are looking
for in this the last dispensation of the fulness of
times. These are things which should absorb the
thoughts, and stir up the minds of all professing
the name of Latter-day Saint, especially by those
who have been privileged to set their feet upon this
soil, to make homes among these mountain fast-
nesses, which the Lord preserved for His people
as a safe gathering place for those who wish to
build up Zion. Those who have not yet reached
the true standard themselves should be careful in
condemning another, and realize that we are not
all constituted alike, having been born and be-
gotten under circumstances as various as are our
features, or as one star in the heavens above us
varies from the other, and upon whom none but
the Great Ruler of the universe is able to pass a
correct and just judgment. Few are capable of
being merciful as He is merciful toward the weak
and erring who, because they have wandered, or
perhaps fallen into some snare set for their feet,
are by some deemed to be past all redemption.
Many who deem themselves saints would treat
them with disdain, and even call in question those
who would act the part of the true Samaritan.
Like the Pharisees who questioned the propriety
of Christ's sitting at meat with publicans and
sinners when He answered "Them that be whole
need no physician, but they that are sick."
	This classification, which we see growing in the
midst of the Latter-day Saints, is among the
stumbling blocks in the way of the weak, whose
faith has not been sufficiently established in the
truth to cling to it, and to the behests of the Al-
mighty regardless of the acts committed by mem-
bers of His church; and this is another reason
for increased diligence on their part in seeking
for His Spirit, and that perfect knowledge that
will enable them to discern the difference between
the works of God, and those of man. The Saints
are to be tried in all things, in prosperity as well
as adveristy, and those whose carnal desires sur-
pass their love of the true riches may be gratified,
but to their condemnation. "Where much is
given much is required." I have known many
who once rejoiced in this Gospel, but as soon as
the sun of prosperity began to shine upon them,
they forgot the Giver and were lifted up in pride,
and became slothful servants, and apostacy was
generally the result. "The earth is the Lord's
and the fulness thereof," and He has promised
to all those who will seek first the kingdom of
heaven, that all other things shall be added thereto.
He, in kindness, has witheld from His people
what in their youth and inexperience would
doubtless have proven the destruction of the
majority, as was shown in the start, at Kirtland,
Ohio. "No man can serve two masters, for he
will either hate the one and love the other, or else
he will hold to the one and despise the other; ye
cannot serve God and mammon." Where His
bounties have been used properly, to the building
up of His kingdom, feeding and clothing, and

[Column 3]

making the poor to rejoice, etc., instead of seek-
ing self-aggrandisement, hoarding or squandering
it on unworthy objects, to the gratification of un-
holy lusts, His blessings upon such have been
richly poured out, temporally and spiritually. I
have known a few of this class, and I have known
not a few who might have gathered around them
an abundance of the good things of this earth,
but desired rather to spend their lives and their
all, laboring in the Lord's vineyard bringing souls
into His kingdom.
	The wealth of this world cannot bring happiness
as it has proven to thousands. Though Dame
Fortune is often prodigal. she is most fickle, and
as we read in the good book, "it is an easy thing,
in the spirit of the Lord, on a sudden to make a
poor man rich. Wealth and all things else are
from God. Many kings have sat down upon the
ground, and one that was never thought of hath
worn a crown." Nobility and excellence are to be
admired, and should be honored wherever
found; and equally odious is the class whose
loftiest ambition is to "shine in society," and
conceitedly rank themselves peers, because their
spoke in the wheel of time happens to be upwards,
and feel themselves superior in ratio. And the
mind that has become so warped and contracted,
as to measure a person's worth by his worldly
advantages and possessions, and feel it condecency
or bemeaning to associate with a brother or sister
because of their lowly circumstances here, they
will hardly be prepared to dwell with the Redeemer
of the world, who was of the poorest and the most
despised and hated,during his earthly pilgrimage,
and said to his disciples, "Blessed are the poor in
spirit for theirs is the kingdom of heaven."
"Blessed are the meek for they shall inherit the
earth." I have met many in the lowliest walks,
in my associations through life, whose brightness
and superior intelligence demanded my greatest
respect and admiration. They were often found
in possession of superior knowledge their educa-
tion being far in advance of those whose groveling
minds soar no higher than this world with its
fleeting and innumerable shams, and mockeries,
caring only for its flattery and their present ag-
grandizement.
	There will be found at the close of this short
career, some wonderful and unlooked for dis-
closures. Many a one who has appeared in the
humblest garbs and been looked down upon as
unworthy the notice of the illustrious ones who
judge of one's qualifications by their outward
adornments, will be found in positions before the
throne of God that will cause a sensation similar
to that of the Jews when they learn that Jesus,
whom they held in scorn and derision and cruci-
fied was truly the Christ.
	The following extracts from a "Revelation
given through Joseph the Seer at Kirtland Ohio,
June, 1831" are profitable for all of us "Harken
O, ye my people who profess my name, saith the
Lord your God, for behold, mine anger is kindled
against the rebellious, and they shall know mine
arm and mine indignation, in the day of visitation
and of wrath upon the nations.
	"And he that will not take up his cross and fol-
low me, and keep my commandments, the same
shall not be saved.
	"Behold thus saith the Lord unto my people
you have many things to do and to repent of for
behold, your sins have come up unto me, and are
not pardoned because you seek to counsel in your
own ways.
	"And your hearts are not satisfied, and ye obey
not the truth, but have pleasure in unrighteous-
ness.
	"Wo unto you rich men, that will not give your
substance to the poor, for your riches will canker
your souls; and this shall be your lamentation
in the day of visitation, and of judgment, and of
indignation,—the harvest is past, the summer is
ended, and my soul is not saved!


"Wo unto you poor men, whose hearts are not
broken, whose spirits are not contrite, and whose
bellies are not satisfied, and whose hands are not
stayed from laying hold upon other men's goods,
whose eyes are full of greediness, who will not
labor with your own hands!
	"But blessed are the poor who are pure in heart
whose hearts are broken, and whose spirits are
contrite, for they shall see the kingdom of God,
coming in power and great glory unto their deliver-
ance, for the fatness of the earth shall be theirs.
For behold, the Lord shall come, and His re-
compense shall be with Him, and He shall re-
ward every man, and the poor shall rejoice.
	And their generations shall inherit the earth
from generation to generation, forever and ever.
And now I make an end of speaking unto you.
Even so, Amen.
		HELEN M. WHITNEY.


[-]
WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


WASATCH AND UTAH.

	On Wednesday morning, May 15, President
Zina D. H. Young, and Sister Lucy B. Young,
left this city by the morning train, to attend the
conference of the Relief Society of Wasatch
Stake at Heber City. They went by way of
Pleasant Grove and across to Charleston where
they arrived the same evening. Next morning,
Thursday, 16, drove to Heber City, accompanied
by the Bishop, and others from Charleston, in-
cluding Sister Emma Brown, who presided at the
Conference. President Hatch, Bishops and other
brethren were present; and much to their surprise
and pleasure, Mrs. Willmirth East a dear and old
friend and acquaintance, who is now President of
the Relief Society of St. Joseph Stake of Arizona.
There was a good feeling and spirit, and sisters
Zina and Lucy Young enjoyed themselves very
much, and felt that they were warmly welcomed
by the people.
	The following day the Primary Association had
their Stake conference in the forenoon, and the
Young Ladies' in the afternoon. Saturday, the 18,
the sisters went to Wallsburg and met with the
Relief Society; then back to Charleston and held
another meeting, returning across the valley to
Provo, where Sister Lucy B. remained a day or
two.
	Monday morning Sister Mary John, President
of the Relief Society of Utah Stake, with her
counselor Sister Manila M. Daniels, accompanied
by President Zina D. H. Young, started for
Pleasant Grove early, and held meeting with the
Relief Society at 10 a.m., then went on to Ameri-
can Fork and met with the Relief Society in the
afternoon, and under the auspices of the Young
People in the evening. In the morning, May, 21,
Bishop George Halladay and a company of
American Fork folks, four carriage loads, drove
to Alpine, where a meeting was held with the
Relief Society, and back to Lehi, the same even-
ing, meeting in the Relief Society Hall. The
next morning, Wednesday, May 22, the party
went over to Cedar Fort and met with the Relief
Society there.
	This completed the tour through the settlements
south of Provo in the Utah Stake, and at each
place, there was every manifestation of welcome
and joy, that could have been anticipated, and the
meetings were well attended. Also in Wasatch
Stake, there was a good and kindly feeling mani-
fested, and the sisters have returned well and in
excellent spirits.


OUR CHILDREN.

	Poor, tired mother! I know how worn out
you feel when evening comes. The thought of
resting a few moments, without hearing the least
noise from the little ones, who have required your
constant attention all day long, almost prompts


you to say "yes" when two or three pleading
voices unite, in asking if they may go outside to
play, just a little while.
	Well,—Say "yes" but add, "I will go with you
my darlings, we will have a nice little walk, and
then come home and go to bed."
	"Oh! I'm too tired for that," you think. But,
think again. It will cost you less time, and
strength and anxiety, to go with them for a stroll,
than either to hunt them up and get them all in
again, if they go out without you; or to get them
quieted and off to bed, without a few moments
recreation in the fresh, open air, since their hearts
are set on it, and their natures require it.
	Go out with them; it will do you more good
than lying on the sofa, and wondering what will
occur to make "Willie" think of how late it is
growing, and that he ought to come in. Nearly
every home has its "Willie," does it not? And
"Willie" of course, is the "Wild Lamb" of the
flock. (The Latter-day Saints do not rear "Black
Sheep" in their precious human folds.)
	Have I convinced you that you had better leave
work, rest, and even the half hour's reading you
have been anticipating all day, and go with your
children and help them to enjoy themselves and
"be good?" If I have, now listen to the sweet
music of the glad, young voices, cheering and ex-
tolling your kindness and wisdom. You are more
than paid already, for any seeming sacrifice you
may have made for their sake.
	There is nothing like entering into the child-
ren's sports with them, to make them feel that they
have your sympathies, no other way of
controling them so entirely by force of love.
	I know some children who have their "Play
Evening" at home, regularly once a week.. This
supplies so many wants which would otherwise
be sadly felt. Always when occasion will per-
mit, the mother is with them during the entire
evening. If circumstances unavoidably occur, to
occupy the mother's time in some other way, the
verdict of the children is, "We haven't had a bit
of a nice time, because you were not with us."
Oh! mothers. Be with your little ones all you
can, while you may. It will pay you better than
any other business you can possibly engage in.
		LULA.


[Column 1]

W. S. A. IN JUAB COUNTY.﻿

	In answer to a call made by a few of the
most influential women of Juab County, for a
meeting to be held, a large number of citizens
both ladies and gentlemen, assembled at the
tabernacle, Nephi, at 2 p.m., March 11, 1889,
to organize a Suffrage Association. Miss L.
A. Schofield nominated Mrs. M. Pitchforth to
act as chairman. Seconded by several ladies,
after which the motion was put and carried.
On motion of Mrs. A. L. Bigler, Mrs M. E.
Teasdale was nominated Secretary of the meet-
ing; seconded and carried. Mrs. S. A. An-
drews then offered prayer. The Secretary then
read the call. Miss L. A. Schofield was then
elected President by unanimous vote. Mrs.
E. B. Bryan was elected First Vice Presidenst
Mrs. M. E. Neff Second Vice President; Mr;.
M. A. Cazier third Vice President; Miss
Louie Udall, Secretary; Mrs. Annie L. Atkin,
Recording, and Corresponding Secretary; Mrs.
L. A. Hartley, Treasurer.
	The following named ladies were elected by
unanimous vote, to act as an Executive Board:
Mrs. M. A. Grover, chairman; Mrs. M: E.
Whitmore, Mrs. Sarah Abbott, Mrs. W. H.
Jones, Miss Emma Adams, Mrs. Mercy Wright,
nd Mrs. Julia Paxman. Miss Louie Udall
read the Constitution of the National Woman
Suffrage Association; after which a motion was
made that the same be adopted. Seconded
and carried by unanimous vote. Mrs. Annie
Atkins read the By-Laws of the Salt Lake

[Column 2]

Woman Suffrage Association. Read by
sections and adopted separately.
	After the organization was effected, Mr. F.
W. Chappell addressed the assembly. He
said: "You have been called together to-day,
to organize a Suffrage Association. The sub-
ject under discussion, is one of vital importance,
to be entrusted with the Elective Franchise.
The ladies of America have more to do than
any one else, with the shaping and moulding
of the character of their children. The ladies
have always been true to any trust reposed in
them. If women voted it would have a puri-
fying effect upon Politics. Ladies have the
interest of the Country at heart, and I do not
think they would sell their votes for gold as
men do. How could a lady teach her children
Republican principles and form of government,
unless she had a practical experience? We
have more to fear from the ignorant votes of
our citizens, than from she muskets of our
enemies."
	Mr. W. H. Jones said he had listened atten-
tively to the Constitution and By-Laws. "The
acquiring of Civil and Political government,
is based on the home, and who has more to
do with home than woman. Men and women
should go hand in hand, and cause no conflict.
When a great movement is agitated it is always
opposed." Quoted Longfellow to illustrate
his ideas. "Man is not without the woman
nor woman without the man." Quoted from
the Constitution of the United States, the 13-
14 and l5 ammendments and explained their
meaning. "The women of Utah had the
Franchise at one time, and they did not abuse
it. Woman had an insight into the character
of man, and she would not vote for a man un-
less he had a good character. No mam who is
not a good husband and father, has a right to
a position of honor."
	Mr. J. W. Paxman said "there is nothing 
objectional in the platform adopted. Women
should have an interest in this movement.
They have my sympathy, and I will aid and
encourage them all in my power. It is no
greater honor to go forth to fight for our rights
than to stand up bravely in defense of them."
	Miss L. A. Schofield said: "every lady
should feel it her duty to make an effort to
obtaiu the Franchise. Many do not under-
stand the true meaning of Woman Suffrage.
Some think woman is trying to usurp man's
rights. Not so! She ouly desires to stand
side by side with him, and share those privil-
eges he values as inestimable. Let the mothers
understand Politics, and their children will
become better citizens, and more intelligent
voters. Was there ever a great cause started
that woman did not wield a mighty influence
in it? She should educate, and fit, and prepare
herself to walk side by side with man.
'Woman was not taken from man's head to
rule over him, nor from his feet to be trampled
upon by him, but from his side to be equal
with him.'"
	Mr. C. Sperry approved the movement of
the ladies, thought they had a right to the
Franchise. He was satisfied that it was benefi-
cial when they exercised it in this Territory.
	The ladies manifested their appreciation of
the sentiments expressed by the speakers, by
frequent and hearty applause.
	The meeting was adjourned to meet in the
R. S. Hall, at 4 p.m. May 21, 1889.
	At the close a number of ladies gave their
names for membership.
		M. E. TEASDALE, Secretary.


R. S., Y. L. M. I. A. & P. A. REPORTS 

		    SEVEIR STAKE. 
	The Relief Society conference of this stake 
was held in the Relief Society Hall in the 
second ward, Richfield, March 15, 1889, com-
mencing at 10 a.m.  On the platform were


President E. Bean and her counselers, Jane 
Spencer, and Theresa Thurber, and several 
other presidents of branches in the Stake.  
	Conference opened with singing, prayer and 
singing.  Opening remarks by President 
Elizabeth Bean; the seeretary read the minutes 
of the previous conference which were accepted. 
President Bean requested the presidents to re-
port; six presidents reported, each one spoke 
of the benefits of the Relief Society, and of 
storing up of grain; of their societies being in 
good condition, and of the good works being 
performed by tbe sisters.
	President Bean was pleased with the reports; 
thought this a time when our meetings should 
be well attended, and we should meet often.  
Said Sister C. A. Hunt had resigned her posi-
tion as secretary of Seveir Stake, and moved 
that she be released by vote, and also to give 
her a vote of thanks.  Sister Christina Sellers
was then sustained as secretary for the Relief 
Society of Sevier stake.  President Bean gave 
good instructions concerning the storing of 
grain; reminded the sisters of the counsel 
given by President Woodruff.  
	Sister Lucy Heppler spoke on the duties 
of secretaries of various associations, urged them 
to be diligent in their work and to make a re-
cord of all business. 
	At the close of the morning session President 
Bean desired all who were present to come in 
the afternoon.  Singing.  Benediction by 
Sister Lucy Heppler.  Adjourned till 2 p.m. 
	Afternoon session:  Conference continued.  
Singing.  Prayer was offered by Bishop Poulsen 
Singing.  Two more Presidents reported their 
wards in good condition.  
	Counselor Theresa Thurber addressed the 
meeting; she gave good instructions; was much 
pleased with the meeting of yesterday, the 
object being to organize a Woman Suffrage 
Association in Sevier County, hoped that we 
would all realize the importance thereof.  
	Bishop Poulsen was pleased to meet with 
the sisters; said that it needed great efforts on 
the part of the sisters to attend to all their 
duties.  Encouraged the sisters to attend to 
their meetings that they might be benefited
and cheered up; spoke of the charity of the 
Sisters' Societies.  Dwelt on the beauty of
honoring and obeying the principles of the
Gospel.  "All trials and persecutions are cal-
culated to make us a great people; it is neces-
sary for us to undergo all of them."  
	President Bean said that we had in a way
been left to ourselves; the day had come for us
to exert our energies and act for ourselves;
that we had enjoyed many privileges and we
had not appreciated them fully.  "Some day
these blessings might be taken away from us 
and we would miss them."  Bore her testimony 
to the truth of the Gospel.  "We should set a 
good example before our children.  O!  how
mnch rests upon the mothers in the training of 
the children that they might become a light to
the world." 
	President Seegmiller addressed the conference
gave good instructions on how to live, and love
and honor home and country.  Said that the
Constitution of the United States was formed
by men inspired by the Holy Spirit.  
	President Bean made closing remarks.  Con-
ference adjourned for three months to be held
in Richfield.  Singing.  Benediction by Presi-
dent Wm. Seegmiller.  
			CHRISTINA SELLERS, Secretary.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

WESTMINSTER ABBEY.

BY J. C. KITTREDGE.

	This Majestic pile, which the reflective mind
contemplates with awe, looms up before the eye,
beyond the imposing tower of the houses of
parliament. While gazing at it the mind

[Column 2]

glances back to the time of the birth and in-
fancy of the great church, when it was built on
the Isle of Thorns, by Sebert, king of the East
Saxons, who died in 616. It then descends to
a time several hundred years later—to Edward
the Confessor—and recalls the incident when
he was attending mass, of his seeing the Savior
as a luminous child—or thought he saw Him.
Owing to that circumstance, prompted by a
feeling of religious enthusiasm, while an exile,
he vowed that if ever he returned he would
make a pilgrimage to Rome for the purpose of
showing his religious devotion. Circumstances,
however, prevented him from doing so. To be
released from his oath Pope Leo IX told him
that he might build a church in honor of Saint
Peter. To carry his purpose into execution
the confessor concluded to erect a church upon
the site of that built by Sebert. He destroyed
the old building, and erected what was an
enormous one for that time, as it covered all the
land occupied by the present building.
	The foundation was laid in 1049, and the
building was consecrated December 28, 1065—
less than a year previous to the battle of Hast-
ings. Henry III was the second patron of the
abbey. It was rebuilt by him in the years
from 1245 to 1272. Edward I continued the
work which had been begun by his father. In
1502 the Lady chapel was pulled down by
Henry VII, and his own built in its place.
Queen Mary refounded the monastery and
Queen Elizabeth the school. Very little of the
original church now remains. This wonderful
building always contains for the traveler some-
thing of fresh interest.
	Saint Paul's cathedral, with all its beauty, is
second in attraction to Westminster abbey.
The latter is not only famous as an ancient
church, but more so on account of being the
resting-place of most of the illustrious dead of
England.
	There is an exceeding charm about the great
pile, for it actually records most of what has
been great in England—philosophers, states-
men, soldiers, poets, artists, and musicians, all
lie here. And the inspection of the tombs is
like seeing them face to face, for in this great
sanctuary we recall their great deeds.
	Westminster abbey contains, as one might
say, the sum total of what has built England.
Here one sees an inscription which tells of the
past glory of the nation—of one who has con-
tributed his mite toward the upbuilding of his
country. Here a chancellor of the exchequer,
under Elizabeth; there a soldier who defended
his land in a time of peril. It is curious to
observe the different styles of tombs, from the
plain forms at the time of William Rufus to 
the extremely ornate ones of Elizabeth's
day.

POET'S CORNER.
	People usually enter the section of the abbey
known as the "poet's corner" at the door where
the unfortunate Queen Caroline knocked in
vain for admittance to the coronation of her
husband, George IV. This section acquired its
name from the fact of Chaucer's having been
buried there, his monument having been the in-
augural one. Among the most important monu-
ments in this section, besides the one to
Chaucer, are those of Spenser, Shakespeare,
Milton, Goldsmith, Gray, Gay, Rowe, Thomp-
son and Longfellow.

AISLE OF HISTORY.
	The first monument we observe in going from
the poet's corner is that to Doctor Thomas
Parr, who quitted this life at the rather ripe
age of one hundred and fifty-two years; having
been born in 1483, and died in 1635. He lived
during the reigns of ten princes, namely,
Edwards IV and V, Richard III, Henry's VII
and VIII, Edward VI, Mary I, Elizabeth,
James, and Charles I. If this man were noted

[Column 3]

for nothing but years, that alone should ensure
his fame. He was a fit companion to old Jacob,
the Methuselah of France, who was born in the
reign of Louis XIV, and lived to see the
French revolution. Other prominent names
in the aisle of history are Davenant, Addison,
Jonson, Garrick, Handel, Macaulay, Thackeray
and Dickens. As we were in the abbey about
the time of the anniversary of the death of
Dickens, we saw flowers strewed upon the slab
which covers his dust—a tender tribute to his
kindness of heart.

CHOIR AND AISLES. 
	From the aisle of history one naturally turns
toward the aisles leading to the choir. Per-
haps to no part of the great edifice did we turn
with so much feeling of the chivalrous past as
we did toward the choir and aisles. The
solemn stillness of death pervades the place.
There, surrounded as we were by the tombs
 and effigies of ancient days, the lights of Eng-
lish history were thrown upon us. Looking
about, we were inspired with a certain degree
of awe. Aside from all individual memorials
of meritorious personages, there is a charm
particularly about this, one of the finest sec-
tions of the abbey, especially on a bright morn-
ing, the sun shining through the windows. To
the right, as you enter, extend chapel after
chapel—Saint Erasmus', Saint Paul's, Saint
John's, and others—lined with tombs. The
monuments of the time of Elizabeth are, for the
most part, the best; grand, as was the reign of
the maiden queen! There are represented effi-
gies of almoners, chancellors of the exchequer,
maids of honor, in alabaster and other materi-
als. These chapels were once places of wor-
ship. The last instance of carved animals at
the feet of recumbent effigies is on the monu-
ment of Lionel Cranfield, Earl Middlesex, 1645,
high treasurer to James I. There is a monu-
ment to Anne Neville, who married Edward,
Prince of Wales, son of Henry VI; who was
killed at Tewksbury. After the death of her
husband she hid and disguised herself as a 
kitchen maid, but was discovered by the Duke
of Gloucester, who married her. This was the
Lady Anne of Shakespeare—

	"Was woman ever in this humor wooed:
	Was ever woman in this humor won?"

CHAPEL OF SAINT EDMUND.
	There is a great fascination in going in and
out of the various chapels with their ancient
tombs and windows. The sight acts like a
spell upon the mind, carrying it into the re-
mote past and causing the actors in former
scenes to be present with us. In this chapel
sleep the children of Edward III. Bulwer
Lytton also lies buried here. But it is an in-
appropriate place for a modern.

CHAPEL OF SAINT NICHOLAS.
	Here lies Sir George Villars, father of the
first Duke of Buckingham. Catherine of
Valois, queen of Henry V, was also buried
here. She was the daughter of Charles VI of
France. After the death of the king she
married; not very satisfactorily, it is said. It
is a curious fact that Samuel Pepys kissed the
mummied lips of that queen; her body in his
time having been removed to the abbey. The
extreme vanity of the famous diarist may be
seen in this circunstance, as clearly as in any-
thing which has been recorded by him. It may
be of interest to the reader to see just what
Pepys says about it in his diary, volume 4, page
107. Here it is:
	"February 23, 1669—Up and to the office,
where all the morning, and then home, and put
a mouthful of victuals in my mouth, and by a
hackney coach followed my wife and and the
girls, who are gone by eleven o'clock, thinking
to have seen a new play at the Duke of York's
house. But I do find them staying at my


tailor’s, the play not being to-day, and there-
fore to Westminster abbey, and there did see
all the tombs very finely, having one with us
alone, there being other company this day to
see the tombs, it being Shrove Tuesday; and
here we did see, by particular favor, the body
of Queen Catherine of Valois, and had the
upper part of her body in my hands. ‘Im-
perial Caesar dead and turned to clay!’ and I
did kiss her mouth, reflecting upon it that I
did kiss a queen, and that this was my first
birthday—thirty-six years old—that I did kiss
a queen.”
			[To be continued.]


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


ANOTHER TESTIMONY.

DEAR EDITOR:	
	I thought if there was room in our good
little paper I would write a few more lines for
it. In my last letter to you I told you about
going to Salt Lake and having a tumor
removed, and I have felt so well and happy
ever since; I want my sisters to see the difference
between being healed by the power of the Lord,
and being cured with medicine. I know that I
was healed by the power of the Lord; I have
never suffered ten minutes with any kind of
pain since I left the Deseret Hospital; and I
do feel so thankful to my Heavenly Father
for it; I never enjoyed myself so well in my
life as I do at the present time. Since I
came home last November I have made six
quilts and six chair tidies, and knit thirty
pairs of stockings, and have done twenty-five
dollars worth of sewing on the machine, besides
getting breakfast nearly every morning, and
looking after all the house work, and seeing
that the girls kept it done properly. If any of
my sisters can do any more than that, please
write and tell me.
	I have never missed one of our society meet-
ings ever since I have been able to walk to
them. I have visited my district as a Teacher
ever since Christmas. I have been a teacher
here for twenty years and I have always en-
joyed myself so much here, and now I am
going to move to Snake River Valley to live;
our boys are getting big now and will soon
want land, and we have not enough land here.
It will be a trial for me to bid my good sis-
ters good-by; the other day I had a sewing-bee
and invited all I could, in order to get to see
all of their good faces once more before I left
them; we had a jolly nice time, and sewed
about thirty pounds of carpet rags; so now I
can have a new carpet to take with me to my
new home.
	I was just reading such a nice piece in the
EXPONENT, written by some good sister, in re-
gard to taking crying babies to conference; it
reminds me of the last time I heard President
Young speak in conference; there were several
babies crying and he told the mothers next
time to stay at home and take care of the
babies and let their husbands tell them about
the preaching; I have always remembered
that and kept my babies at home.
	As ever your sister in the Gospel,
					M. A. RAWSON.


PRIMARY ANNUAL.
	Report of the Annual Meeting of the 20th.
Ward Primary held April 19th, 1889. Meet-
ing opened by singing “Beautiful Zion,”prayer
by Bishop Geo. Romney. Singing “Love at
Home.” Minutes of the last Annual meeting
read and approved. Programme as follows’
Address, Albert Romney, “The Primary.’:
Recitation, Katie Sansome; Recitation, Levi
Richards, “The Death of Sister Toone.” Song,
Pearl and Cathie Culmer; Essay Walter Rom-
ney, “The Latter-day Saints.” Recitation,
Isabelle Romney; Dialogue between three small


boys. Organ Solo, Katie Romney; Recitation,
Richard Evans; Dialogue between six of the
members. Recitation, Hazel Culmer; Song,
Lennie Savage; Recitation, Willie Salmon; 
Recitation, Pearl Culmer; Essay, Katie Hall
“Patience.” Song, Mary Salmon and Alice
Clowes; Recitation, Ray Savage; Reading,
Plet Lambourne; Dialogue between four little
girls. Song, Rosie Romney; Essay, Albert
Romney, “How to Succeed.” The speakers
were Sisters Jane Miller, L. G. Richards, Lilie 
Freeze, Louie Felt, L. A. Wells, P. L. Kimball,
E. C. Clawson, M. A. Freeze, and Brothers C.
W. Stayner, W. Willes, L. W. Richards, C.
R. Savage, J F. Simmons and Bishop Geo.
Romney. Counselor Maggie Sharp thanked
the children for their good behavior. Closed
by singing “Marching Homeward,” benedic-
tion by Brother Savage. Refreshments were
then passed around.
					S. PUZEY, Secretary.


NOTICE TO MEMBERS OF D. H. A.
	The month of May is the regular time to re-
new the membership to the Deseret Hospital
Association, and it is to be hoped the brethren
and sisters will come forward and pay the
annual fee of one dollar, and in this way help
to sustain a worthy and benevolent institution.
There are about nine hundred names on the
book of memberships, though but very few of
them have paid regularly since the first year.
Therefore it was thought best by the Execu- 
tive Committee to remind them of the time for
payment. New members are also earnestly
solicited to join.
				     E. B. WELLS, Secretary.


THE WAY TO REST.
	Many women never rest. They seem not to
understand what rest, real rest, means. To
throw one’s self down with a newspaper or book
is not rest; it is only a change of occupation.
To sit down and keep the fingers flying over
some sort of fancy work, as if one were pursued
by a demon of unrest, is certainly not rest.
But to lie at full length on a hard surface;
arms extended at the sides, head back, with no
pillow, eyes closed, all cares, and worries dis-
missed—this is rest; this will smooth away
wrinkles in the face and in temper; this will
give an air of repose to the tired, anxious
nervous woman; this will take away many an
ache and straighten out the rounded shoulders
and craned-out necks.


There are three difficulties in authorship: to
write anything worth publishing, to find honest 
men to publish it, and to get sensible men to
read it.  Literature has now become a game,
in which the booksellers are the kings; the
critics, the knaves; the public, the pack; and 
the poor author, the mere table, or thing played
upon.—Colton.


OBITUARIES.
	Died, at Payson, Jan., 21st, 1889.  Louisa Haag, our
much beloved sister, who was born in Stuttgart, Germany,
November 8th, 1839.  Embraced the Gospel, in the same
place, in 1881, and five of her children soon followed her
example.  Emigrated to Utah in 1883, with two of her
children, to join three others who had preceded her; leav-
ing her affectionate husband and one son behind.  She
was religiously inclined, seeking after truth from her early
childhood.
	She would steal away from her home to wait on the sick,
when only girl of fourteen.  It seemed to be her greatest
desire to give relief to the poor, sick, and needy.  She ex-
posed herself to wait on others; as a lady physician she did
a great deal of good among the sick.  She was an affec-
tionate mother and always set an example before her
children which was worthy of their imitation.


RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.
     Adopted by the sisters of the Relief Society—Payson
Ward.  To the memory of our esteemed sister Louisa
Haag.
     Whereas, It has pleased God in His infinite wisdom, to
take from our midst by the hand of Death, our worthy and
beloved sister, and,
     Whereas, We, her fellow-laborers, in the Relief Society
feel that we have lost a friend and Sister, be it therefore,
     Resolved, That we tender our Love, Esteem and Heart-
felt Sympathies to her family, and condole with them in
their bereavement, while we submit to the will of an All-
wise God, who doeth all things well;
     Resolved, That we spread these Resolutions on the
Society Record, and present a copy to the family.
						LAMECIA A. SCHARRER,
						ELIZABETH SCHRAMM,
						JULIA WRIGHT,
									Committee.

     Died, Feb., 4th, 1889, at Kanosh, Millard County, of
childbed fever, Martha Ellen Prowse; daughter o
William and Loduoky Prowse, and wife of William Miller
Born March 14th, 1862.  She leaves a husband and four
children the two youngest boys being twelve days old at
the time of her death.
										COM.


SCAMMELL'S
Universal Treasure House
Of Useful Knowledge
	Should be purchased by all who wish a
complete work on practical information for
every day use.
	Earnest workers wanted to canvass for it by
the general agent.
			H. A. Hess,
				23 First East Street,
						Salt Lake City.

R.K. THOMAS
EAGLE EMPORIUM
SALT LAKE CITY.
The Leading Retail
Cash House.
R.K. THOMAS

Special to the Ladies. 
AT TEASDEL'S
Will be found the latest styles and productions
in
LACES, RUCHES, EMBRODERIES,
FANS, GLOVES, PARASOLS, 
RIBBONS, COLLARS, TIES
And an elegant assortment of
DRY GOODS.
Special department for Ladies’ Misses' and In-
fant’s Shoes.
112, 114, 116, 118 East Temple Street

DAVID JAMES & CO.
TINNERS GAS,WATER & STEAM. FITTERS
	Agent for RUMSEY'S celebrated LIFTand FORCE
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from
the country promptly responded to.
	Address. DAVID JAMES. Box 306. SALT LAKE CITY.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.

