Vol. 18.		SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, FEBRUARY 1, 1890. 		No. 17.


CONTENTS.
	A Plesant Day—Annie V. Cannon.  Hephzibah.
Miscellaneous.  R. S. Reports—Scofield—Emery
—Maricopa—Utah. Women of the Bible—Adelia
B. Cox Sidwell.  Resolutions of Respect—To
Mary Jane Tanner.  Obituary.
	Editorial: — Election Day.  Birthday Honors
The Old Folks Entertainment.  Remembrance.
R. K. Thomas’ New Store. Enthusiasm.—M. E.
K.  Thoughts Suggested by Utah Courts—H. M.
Whitney.
	Poetry: — Unfinished. — L. M. Hewlings.
Afraid—Lu Dalton.  One Word.—Walter Bruce.
Our Soldier Boy—Lula Sharps, and Flats—
Eugene Field.  'Twould Fetch Em—Columbus 
Dispatch.


For the Exponent;
	        UNFINISHED.
I had put by work unfinished,
	Aye, laid it quite out of the way,
Thinking that sometime in earnest,
	I could finish without delay;
In Autumn perchance, or Winter,
	When the Summer had passed away--
When nothing would come to hinder,
	Of work to be done or play.

Then heedless	I followed pleasure,
	Thro' witching walks of idle sport.
With never a moment's leisure,
	To pause for the unfinished work;
Fresh blooming in Spring’s fair garden,
	Were flowers of the brightest hue,
Opportunities seed golden,
	That glisten’d with morning dew.

But I paused not then to gather,
	Gay butterflies around me flew,
And careless I followed after
	With ne’er worthy a aim in view.
Yet time with its busy fingers,
	Kept sewing the leaves of Day,
'Till volumes of cheq’ered pages
	Stern history had borne away,
Chronicled annual record,
	Faithfully of merit or of shame,
Recorded temptations resisted—
	Every deed, of praise or of blame
Each volume was blurred and blotted,
	With Sweet Mercy's pitying tears;
For she had kept watch unceasing,
	Throughout all the swift flight of years.
When all were folded and numbered,
	With record of	good and	ill;
I saw by the light of conscience,
	My work lay unfinished still.
					L. M. HEWLINGS,


FOR THE EXPONENT:
				AFRAID.
Mysterious fate has decreed my lot
	'Mong a region of girls and boys,
With hungry young souls asking wherefore and what,
	With small, acute griefs and joys;
With inquisitive finger and restless feet,—
Deep love of pure fact and deep scorn of deceit;--
	Oh, wonderful	girls and boys!

They come from the Father's fashioning hand
	Most beautiful, winsome and wise;
His love in their hearts more than ocean sand,
	And the light of His truth in their eyes,
They see but the beauty and joy of life,	
The whole world to them is with glory rife,
	Oh, envy these girls and boys!


But, no, they must learn, and may it be well,
	Long lessons both bitter and sweet;
And here are they clustered, and I, for awhile,
	Must feed them, as Peter “My sheep.”
They ask me for bread, shall I give them a stone?
Dare I trifle with them who are God's very own—
		His precious own girls and boys?

With scale seldom erring, my lightest word
	They fearlessly, gravely weigh;
By fear or by favor quite undeterred,
	They judge me from day to day;
I dare not be slothful, untrue or weak,
Their bright eyes such strong condemnation speak;—
		Oh, terrible girls and boys!

These eager, young spirits are hurrying on,
	Athirst for the tumult and strife;
All crowding and panting in haste to be gone,
	To join in the battle of life,
They know not the ambuscades laid in the way,
	Nor the wounds and groans in the heat of the fray;--
		Oh, pity the girls and boys!

Then who is to arm and give strength to their hands,
	And point out the snares in the way?
That safely they pass thro’ the foe's routed bands,
	And fall not, the slain in the fray?
O skill, and O wisdom, attend and give aid;
The task is so mighty it makes me afraid!
		My beautiful girls and boys!

What if through my weakness one soul be lost?
	One pair of fleet wandered astray?
Of the heavenly jewel who knoweth the cost?
	And what to my Lord should I say?
Could I join in the songs of the blest without tears
While the cries of the lost ever rang in my ears?
		 The cries of my girls and boys!

Dear Lord, give me wisdom to guide as I ought,
	A few days, these dear ones along;
To warmly encourage each high; worthy thought,
	And tenderly weed out the wrong.
If I be found worthy the mansions above,
Oh, grant that my welcome be kisses and love
	From these very girls and boys!
							Lu Dalton.
Manti, U.T.


A PLEASANT DAY.
	The morning ride had been most enjoyable
affording fine panoramic glimpses of the
Thuringian mountains and now ending at the
beautifully situated city of Eisenach in the
midst of the Thuringian forest.  It was still
early morning when we alighted from the
train.  Every thing looked fresh and beauti-
ful and seemed to bid us welcome on this
bright, clear spring morning, when the foliage
wet with April dews glistened and glimmered
in the sun's first rays.  Just a step or two to
the cleanest and pleasantest little hotel where
a wash and a generous German breakfast re-
freshed and prepared us for a long busy day's
work.  Unlike so many who attempt to "do"
all Europe in one season we had loitered along
the way enjoying everything to the uttermost,
until our time was well nigh spent and we
could allow ourselves only one day for this in-
teresting city with its wonderful, romantic and
historical environs; still, happening to be the
second visit for one of us, no time need be
uselessly spent.  Here not far from our hotel
near the town's entrance stands an old Roman
tower called—St. Nicholas—we stop a few
moments to look and admire, not so much the
structure as its defiance of time, for through
all these decades, nay centuries, it still main-

[Column 2]
tains its ancient granduer and silently but
forcibly recalls to the stranger the history of the
Romans and their glorious exploits under their
greatest of leaders—the immortal Caesar.  We
pass by with only a glance, the most magni-
ficent home of some high born German, with
such beautifully laid out gardens that we long
to enter but other points of interest like
magnets draw us on through the narrow wind-
ing streets until we pause in an open place
before an old, queer house where a tablet tells
us that here in 1385 John Sebastian Bach was
born, a humble birth place for one, whose name
in grandest, soul-inspiring notes is ever re-
sounding from the sacred cathedral walls
throughout the universe.
	Passing along the busiest streets my com-
panion suddenly touches my arm and point-
ing to a small house, which by the red and
white stripes one always knows to be a barber
shop, laughingly says, "It was there I encount-
ered the crazy barber who had it not been for
the mirror before me which reflected his
maddening look just as the razor cut my
cheek, would probably have taken my life.  In
a second I sprang to my feet clutched him 
around the throat and hurled him in the op-
posite corner, then rushing to the door with
my face still bleeding I hailed a policeman
who informed me that only a few weeks be-
fore had this very barber been released from
an insane asylum."  Fancy a government so
strict in almost every instance allowing an
insane man to practice a profession requiring
such dangerous tools.  "However the incident
was not without its charm, happening on the
day of the "Burchenfest" Oct. 18, when
students from all parts of Germany visit the
Wartburg Castle my scarred face gave one an
impression that I had but recently been en-
gaged in a duel and therefore I became the re-
cipient of marked attentions.
	Passing through the different streets we
occasionally pause before a monument now in
commemoration of the victory of 171 and then
to the honor of some king or hero; here in
Carl Street is the birth place of Friedrich
Preller, the painter, and there the house where
Luther lived with Frau Ursula Cotta, while at-
tending school, but the day is passing, we
hurry on through the crowded streets out to
the broad road passing the charming villa,
where once lived Fritz Reuter, a low German
poet, on to the delightful old castle the one
great attraction of Eisenach—The Wartburg.
The old castles and towers we had previously
visited were mostly ruins and unoccupied, but
the Wartburg is in good preservation and parts
of it occupied during certain seasons by the
grand ducal family.  To attempt a descrip-
tion of the interior would be too long a task,
so many long rooms and corridors with quaint
and interesting frescoed walls and massive
carved ceilings, I can only stop to mention the
rooms that interested me most.  The castle is
said to be a fine specimen of the Romanesque
style and though more than eight centuries old
still maintains its original shape.  The ban-
quet hall is a very beautiful room, the finest
I believe in all the castle, and the little chapel
is so unique and pretty that upon entering
one immediately feels a desire for worship.
The Sangersall is a large interesting room,
beautifully decorate with arabesques and
figures of minstrels with quotations from their
ballads; this was the room in which the great
contest between the rival minstrels of Ger


many were held. The armory almost
frightens one with its shining armor looking
like a hall of ghouls as the bright figures stand
staring with empty sockets but we needs must
enter here just to see the armor worn by
Martin Luther when he returned from Worms
and was led to this castle by his friend the
Elector, Frederick the Wise. Our interest is
now turned towards that part of the castle made
famous, and we might add sacred,by the pres-
ence of the great reformer, with only a passing
glance we enter and leave the Elizabeth Gallery,
the Remenate, or Grand Duke’s rooms, stop-
ping awhile in the Reformation rooms to look
at the pictures telling with their shades and
colors the different incidents in Luther’s life,
until finally we reach a little room, where
for the moment one almost believes Luther
himself is there, so well preserved are all the
furnishings, there is his desk, his chair, his
drinking cup, his book case, his portrait and
his letters. Here in this very room at this
little carved table he sat and worked for
nearly a year at his Bible Translation. What
a wondrous work that year produced, a work
to last forever and carry with it through the
ages the name of Martin Luther.
	The close attentions of the guide in this
room were rather annoying, he appeared to be
watching us, but I did not wonder later, when
looking closely at the furniture I observed that
many small pieces had been split out of it ap-
parently with a pen knife and the guide told
us, tourists had done this. What sacrilege to
mar and ruin beautiful relics for the sake of
enriching a little private cabinet. On the
wall is a large spot void of plaster, it is the
place where Luther under an hallucination
fancied the devil was trying to stop his work
and threw his ink bottle at him. Visitors
have scraped every particle of ink-stained
plaster from the wall, we suggested the idea of
replastering and throwing another ink stand
on it for the benefit of tourists, crazy for
curios.
	Looking from the south tower is a charming
view of the Thuringian Forest and I longed to
leave the high dark walls of the old castle
and penetrate into the shades of that forest the
home and heart of romance. The old songs
and legends seemed to echo down the glens
and as the setting sun cast its bright rays
among the shimmering leaves, and along the
rippling stream I fancied fairy sprites and elves
were sporting among the long graceful ferns.
The shadows of the tall dark pines lay plain
and distinct upon the verdant hills and the
approaching twilight lent a dreamy charm to
the forest walk.
	We descended from the main road down a
winding path over stones and bushes into a
wooded ravine, called the Annathal or Anna
Valley, where we entered a narrow cleft or
gorge. On either side the high precipitous
rocks were clothed with a more luxuriant
growth of ferns and mosses than I had ever
dreamed of, and the water trickled down the
sides and flowed under our feet making so
clear and loud a sound, that I surely thought
the crust of earth on which we walked would
break, and force us into a raging river. For
a hundred and fifty yards we walked through
this fairy home and then once more reached
the main road and turned our steps towards
the city. The forest shades were growing
darker and denser every moment and not
until the bright light of the city welcomed us
back could I throw aside the dreamy fanci-
ful feeling that the whispering leaves
and murmuring waters had imparted to me.
The day was done. 
					ANNIE W. CANNON.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


None but the brave deserve the fair.—John
Lyrden.


[Column 1]
	       	    HEPHZIBAH.	
              		   XIV.
	A winter day, and cold the wind and shrill,
		The snow was falling, when a little hand,
	Came slowly winding down a gentle hill,
		And by an ice-bound brook in groups they stand.

	Hespie Hathaway needed repose after the
examination which had been very trying to
one so sensitive to influences, but events were
crowding fast upon her and she little dreamed
what changes the next few months would 
bring in her life.
	A day or two after the school had closed,
Miss Andrews the preceptress called and bade
her favorite pupil good bye. It was a sad
leave-taking for Hepsie,—for although Miss
Andrews assured her she would return sometime
Hepsie felt she should never see her dear
teacher again, and could not refrain from
telling her so in the most impulsive way; she
gave the girl many parting instructions telling
what she should expect of her in the next few
years; and finished by saying "you will far sur-
pass me in a literary way. Let me hear from
you by letter" and so they parted never to meet
again. 
	On the following Monday Hepsie was at
home with her mother and little brothers and
sisters. Mrs. H was so happy in her new-
found faith that she talked of nothing else.
In fact it was the topic of conversation
throughout the whole village. Old and young
and ere long forty or more had been baptized.
A branch of the Church was organized and
regular meetings were held. Many striking
instances of the gift of healing had been mani-
fested, and great interest aroused upon that
particular point of doctrine.
	The Elder of whom Mrs. H. had writen to 
Hepsie had visited B. and returned to Boston
but was expected again shortly and Lucy
Reynolds as well as Hepsie's mother and
others felt sure she would be converted under
his teaching. Hepsie listened to them but did not
enter into their enthusiasm on the subject as
her mother had anticipated. She exhorted her,
wept over her, prayed for her and still made
no perceptible impression.
	Lucy Reynolds had confided in Hepsie con-
cerning the matter of obtaining her letters from
Henry and the girl had promised to use every
honorable effort to get possession of them. The
opportunity came, Henry learning from his
sisters that Hepsie had gone home, he paid
a visit to the village to find out how Lucy was
and how affairs were for he had heard a 
rumor that Mr. W. just graduated was going
to marry Lucy and take her out West among
the Mormons. He called on Hepsie to ascer-
tain whether these reports were true. It was
just what Hepsie wanted, to see him and talk
with him and if possible secure the letters.
During his call she inquired how he could have
given Lucy up so easily. He replied "Hepsie
I loved Lutie" (for so he called her) better
than I ever shall love again, but I could not
think of associating with a girl, who had no
more respect for herself than to join such a low
degraded set as the Mormons.,'
	"Well but suppose your sisters were to be
converted to the new religion?" said Hepsie.
"I would disown them or my mother either!"
Hepsie felt this was the moment and she pro-
ceeded to open the budget, "Henry as you so
thoroughly despise the Mormons and all that
pertains to them you certainly do not care to
keep any thing of theirs?" I don't understand
you I never had anything belonging to one
of them neither would I!" "But you have Henry
I can prove it to you and moreover I want
you to promise to give them to me!" "Give
you what I have not, or ever had impossible!"
"It is not impossible and it is quite true—
Lucy is a Mormon and you have her letters,
[Column 2]
you have broken the engagement so sacred to
you two,—you will not even see her, although
you came to see me because you knew I
would be in her confidence, and you certainly
do not want the letters: Lucy has the same
ideas of propriety in all things she had before
her baptism and she does not think it proper 
for a young man, who is not her friend even
to have letters written when they were under
promise of marriage to each other."
	Henry was silent and almost sorrowful
tender hearted little Hepsie nearly relented,
but she summoned up courage and continued
as she saw he made no attempt to speak.
"Henry do you think it right to keep a
young lady's letters, love letters too, under
such circumstances have the goodness to
answer; and besides do you feel that you have 
been manly in summarily breaking this engage-
ment because of a difference in belief? You
will never get Lucy’s equal go where you will
and I don't believe you will ever be happy
either." 
	Slowly and evidently somewhat affected
with the scene Henry rose to go and holding
out his hand to Hepsie said  “Lucy has a
friend in you Hepsie and I admire your
“grit—” but look out the "Mormons," don't
capture you too." "But the letters Henry?"
She shall have them Hepsie and mine "he
added," she may burn." "Good-bye Hephzibah
don't give up your bright future for Mormonism
remember I warn you."
	How was it that every one who came to
see Hepsie warned her to beware of the faith
her mother had accepted, it was so contrary
to all the teachings of her life time, children
were instructed to give heed to the advice of
parents to follow their example, now things
seemed to have suddenly changed To day
when Henry plead with Hepsie not to yield
up her bright future, her emotions were
aroused and her sense of honor as she thought
impeached. She felt her mother who had
stood so high in the estimation of all must
know as much or more of right and wrong,
truth and error as Henry, and in fact she al-
most despised him for his lack of courage in giv-
ing Lucy up. She began to wonder what sort of
men and women conposed society and whether
it was all false a mere sham without honest
foundations, to stand upon; she recalled the
days when she sat on the "old settle" by her
grandfather, and his tales of daring courage
and how love over came all—and for a moment
she felt as though the foundation stones upon
which her theories had been built were giving
way. Yet in this even her trouble was more
for her friend than herself—although she
could now plainly see that unless she received
the faith her mother had embraced separation
was sure to come.
	Sometimes Fate or an unknown power decided
for us peremptorily matters over which we
hesitate and so it was with Hepsie. Ever
since she had returned from the school her
mother had sought to impress her with the
truths of the Gospel, and on  the other hand
messages were being continuously sent her, and
friends urging her not to be baptized by a
Mormon.
	One Sunday Morning Elder Mc’G.—walked
into the meeting unexpectedly and was invited
to speak—it was in the house of one of the
members whose family had all been converted.
The sermon was an eloquent inspirational
one, such as Hepsie had never heard, and the
entire congregation were almost electrified.
Several people came forward after meeting
and asked for baptism, and after some con-
sultation it was decided the ice should be cut
in Mrs. Hathaway's brook and the ceremony
performed there. The evening was spent in
hearing explanations of doctrine from Elder
Mc’G.—and it was late when the company of
inquirers dispersed. The morning dawned a


last but Hepsie had never closed her eyes, so
intensely was she wrought upon by what she
had listened to.
	Two powers were warring with her, one said
“Obey your mother, go down into the waters
of baptism in the little brook that always
seemed a sanctuary,” the other said “do not
heed the sayings of your mother or the Elders,
a brilliant future awaits you, you must not
make this sacrifice." This and much more the
tempter whispered in her ear. When the
time came she went with the others who had
gathered at Mrs. H’s down the hill to the edge
of the water or ice, and as she stood there all
the time the same subtle powers were striving
with her. Two or three of the chief men of
the village came and spoke to her “Are you
doing this of your own free will and choice?"
she only replied in monysyllables and heeded
not the crowd, the wind blew fierce and
whistled down through the hemlock grove
above a sort of chant, it soothed her, she felt
the sympathy it brought, it was like a strain
of rare old music, and it gave her fresh courage,
seven had already been immersed and her name
was called, some one took hold of her arm—it
was one she had known and reverenced, one
who had been specially kind to her, the father
of her dear friend and champion, Jane—the most
influential man in the County—“Hepsie he
said come away you are but a child, you must
not make this great sacrifice"—the sentence 
was unfinished,—Hepsie saw the Elder standing 
in the icy stream waiting for her—she went
towards him it was but a step—her heart gave
a great sob—the words were pronounced with
great solemnity, in a moment it was over,—the
crowd, dispersed, and the little band of men
and women had gone up one after another
when the ordinance had been performed, to the
house to change clothing. Hepsie was the last
—and silently she returned to the house and
was soon ready seated with the others for con-
firmation. It had been an exciting time,
Hepsie’s mother, cool and collected as she had
always seemed, had been very nervous, lest
at the last moment Hepsie should waver and
refuse as some others had done after having
come prepared to go into the water. Hepsie
did not at all comprehend the situation, she
had no conception of the obstacles that would
beset her path more and more from this time 
forward.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


ONE WORD.
	BY WALTER BRUCE.
"Write me an epic," the warrior said—
"Victory, valor, and glory wed."

"Prithee, a ballad," exclaimed the knight—
"Prowess, adventure, and faith unite."

"An ode to freedom," the patriot cried—
"Liberty won and wrong defied."

"Give me a drama," the scholar asked—
The inner world in the outer masked."

"Frame me a sonnet," the artist prayed—
"Power and passion in harmony played."

"Sing me a lyric," the maiden sighed—
"Lark-note waking the morning wide."

"Nay, all too long," said the busy age,
"Write me a line instead of a page."

The swift years spoke, the poet heard,
"Your poem writ in a single word."

He looked in the maiden's glowing eyes,
A moment glanced at the starlit skies,

From the lights below to the lights above,
And wrote the one-word poem—Love
				Blackwood's Magazine


OUR SOLDIER BOY.
"I'm a Soldier!" cried our four year-old;
	"A soldier! don't you see?
I belong to the People's Party, though,
	That is the side for me."

And he looked a hero every inch,
As good as our land can afford;
On his prancing "Fire-fly" rocking-horse,
	With his wooden gun, and sword.

A feeling of gratitude comes to us,
	As we think o'er our rights and wrongs,
That our infant soldier knows so well,
	To which party he belongs.

For there's now and then a man we meet,
	Who deems the out-look dim,
And scarcely feels prepared to say,
	Which side is the side for him.

At eve, as the children's bed-time came,
	They were taking off their shoes,
When we heard expressed some farther hints
	Of our little soldier's views.

Speaking of something they wanted, one
	Asked 'How shall we get it now?"
"Why pray for it!" our soldier said,
	"Ask the Lord for it—that's how!"

Wise little Soldier—and brave, is not
	The People's Party strong,
With hundreds and thousands such who knows
To which party they belong?

We kissed the darling, o'er and o'er,
	Who shall measure our hopes and joys?
God keep them honest and brave and true,
	Our People's Soldier Boys!
								LULA.


SHARPS AND FLATS.
		COBBLER AND STORK.

[Cobbler.]-Stork! I am justly wroth,
			For thou hast wronged me sore;
		The ash roof-tree that shelters thee
			Shall shelter thee no more!

[Stork.]—Full fifty years I've dwelt 
			Upon this honest tree.
		And long ago (as people know!)
			I brought thy father thee.
		What hail hath chilled thy heart
			That thou shouldst bid me go?
		Speak out, I pray—then I’ll away,
			Since thou commandest so.

[Cobbler.]-Thou tellest of the time
			When, wheeling from the west,
		 This hut thou sought'st and one thou
				brought'st
			Unto a mother's breast;
		I was the wretched child
			Was fetched that dismal morn— 
		'Twas better die than be (as I)
			To life of misery born!
		And hadst thou borne, me on
			Still farther up the town,
		A king I'd be of high degree,
			And wear a golden crown!
		For yonder lives the prince
			Was brought that self same day;
		How happy be, while—look at me!
			I toil my life away!
		And see my little boy—
			To what estate he's born!
		Why, when I die, no hoard leave I
			But poverty and scorn.
		And thou hast done it all—
			I might have been a king 
		And ruled in state, but for thy hate,
			Thou base, perfidious thing!

[Stork.] —Since, cobbler thou dost speak
			Of one thou lovest well,
		Hear of that king what grievous thing
			This very morn befell.
		Whilst round thy homely bench


Thy well-beloved played,
		In yonder hall beneath a pall 
			A little one was laid;
		Thy well-beloved's face
			Was rosy with delight,
		But 'neath that pall in yonder hall
			The little face is white;  
		Whilst by a merry voice
			Thy soul is filled with cheer, 
		Another weeps for one that sleeps
			All mute and cold anear;
		One father hath his hope,
			And one is childless now;
		He wears a crown and rules a town—
			Only a cobbler thou!
		Wouldst thou exchange thy lot
			At price of such a woe?
		I’ll nest no more above thy door,
			But, as thou bidd’st me go.

[Cobbler.]—Nay, stork!  thou shalt remain—
			I mean not what I said;
		Good neighbors we must always be, 
			So make thy home o’er head.
		I would not change my bench
			For any monarch’s throne,
		Nor sacrifice at any price 
			My darling and my own!
		Stork! on my roof-tree bide, 
			That, seeing thee anear,
		I’ll thankful be God sent by thee
		Me and my darling	here!
					     EUGENE FIELD.
London, December, 1889.


TO ORGANIZED SUFFRAGISTS.
To all Organized Suffragists Throughout the
Territory:	
	It is especially desired that you send, im-
mediately, a report stating the number of
members, and the work accomplished during
the past year; that our delegates may be able
to report the same to the National Convention
to be held in Washington next month.
			SARAH KIMBALL,
						PRESIDENT.
			RACHEL EDWARDS,
						SECRETARY.
Address:  55 N, W Temple St.


MISCELLANEOUS.

	God’s mills grind slow but sure.—George
Herbert.

	When Greeks joined Greeks,then was the tug
of war—Nathaniel Lee.

	Life is not so short but that there is always
time enough for courtsey.—Emerson.

	Act well at the moment and you will have
performed a good action to all eternity.—
Lavater.

	Those who live on vanity must not un-
reasonably, expect to die of mortification.—
Mrs. Ellis.

	Nature loves truth so well that it hardly
ever admits of flourishing.  Conceit is to nature
what paint is to beauty— it is not only need-
less,but impairs what it would improve.—Pope. 

	Compliments of congratulation are always
kindly taken, and cost one nothing but pen,
ink, and paper.  I consider them as draughts
upon good breeding, where the exchange is al-
ways greatly in favor of the drawer.—
Chesterfield.

	Conscience is too great a power in the nature
of man to be altogether subdued; it may for a
time be repressed and kept dormant, but con-
jectures there are in human life which awaken
it; and when once re-awakened it flashes on the
sinner's mind with all the horrors of an in-
visible ruler and a future judgment.—Blair.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
EMMELINE B. WELLS,		-		Editor.	
	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah Terms:
one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months, 50 cts. No
reduction made for clubs. City papers delivered by mail, 
extra for postage postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space, one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal discount
to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, No. 25 E., South Temple Street, second
gate east of Deseret News Office. Business hours from 10 a.m.
to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communication to
			PUBLISHER WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
					SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH 	

	Entered at the Post Office, in Salt Lake City, Utah, as 
Second Class Matter.

SALT LAKE CITY, 	-	-	February 1, 1890.


'TWOULD FETCH 'EM.

If registrars were ladies,
With eyes as black as Hades,
	Fair and petite,
	With laughter sweet,
As many a Buckeye maid is,

A simple invitation
To come for registration
	Would bring all men
	With ink and pen
With trifling hesitation.

Whate'er the voter's trade is
Or his complexion's shade is, 
	He’d go and sign
	In rain or shine,
If registrars were ladies.
				Columbus Dispatch,


ELECTION DAY.
	Monday February 10th, is the Municipal Elec-
tion of this City and there has never before been
a time when so much depended on the election 
of officers. Every man who is registered and
qualified to vote should be on hand and remember
that "eternal vigilance is the price of liberty."
It will no doubt be an exciting time and coolness
and activity should be maintained whatever may
occur, disorder, confusion and undue excitement
are out of place at a time when great issues are
pending.  The People's Party know well from the
disclosures of the last few weeks, that no stone
will be left unturned to carry the City by the
"Liberals."  But God is greater than man and
can turn and overturn as seemeth Him good— 
and though the "Liberals" laugh and scorn the
God of battles, nevertheless the walls of Jericho
fell when the people obeyed the word of the
Lord.  Just so sure will the Lord deliver His
Saints in these last days in His own due time, and 
there is no need to fear the power of man, but to
buckle on the whole armor of righteousness and
be prepared for whatever difficulties seen or un-
seen beset the way.  The bravest men are ever
the coolest, and "the race is not to the swift nor
the battle to the strong," but "wisdom is better than
weapons of war," and "discretion is the better
part of valor."


BIRTHDAY HONORS.

	Yesterday January 31st, was the anniversary of
the birthday of Mrs. Zina D. H. Young, General
President of the Relief Society throughout the
Church, and also of Mrs. Jane S. Richards, her
First Counselor.
	A few sisters met by invitation at the residence
of Mrs. Young’s daughter, Mrs. Phebe Y. Beattie
to spend the afternoon and evening in honor of
the happy occasion. There were about twenty


guests in all and the time passed off delightfully
in exchanges of greetings and conversation until
the “five o’clock tea" was announced, which was
a very social affair, handsomely served, and the
viands were most delicious. When supper was
over a sort of informal meeting was held Mrs.
Presendia Kimball, sister of Mrs. Young, and
herself a veteran Mother in Israel in her 80th,
year presiding.
	After singing the hymn "O, my Father," prayer
was offered by Mrs. E. Howard, another hymn
followed and the sisters gave expression in brief
of their love, and good wishes and blessings for
“Aunt Zina,” as she is lovingly called by her “dear
five hundred friends” and many more.
	The gifts of the Gospel were poured forth to
the joy and comforting of all present. It was a time
of refreshing from on high, trials and cares were 
forgotten and joy and love for the Gospel and 
each other reigned supreme in the hearts of all 
present.
	"Aunt Zina" was also the grateful recipient of 
gifts and mementos from the loved ones assem-
bled there and from absent friends. She also re-
ceived a telegram of congratulations and respect
from Apostle F. D. Richards, and altogether the 
day was one long to be remembered.
	Mrs. Jane S. Richards we are informed had a
a party given her at home in Ogden, and was hon-
ored with similar attentions quite equal to those
Mrs. Young received here. Mrs. Richards was in-
vited by Mrs. Beattie to come to Salt Lake and 
participate in the party, but other arrangements 
had no doubt been made beforehand to celebrate 
the day.
	The writer offers sincere congratulations to
Mrs. Young and to Mrs. Richards, and wishes
for both not only many happy returns of the day
with health and good wishes but success in the
labors of love, they are engaged in for the uplift-
ing of humanity.


THE  OLD FOLKS' ENTERTAINMENT.
	On Friday, January 24, ult. the Old Folks Com-
mittee gave an exceptionally good entertainment
in the theatre to widows, orphans and all old peo-
ple over 70 years of age; it was a pleasant sight
to see these aged people enjoying to the utmost
the play, songs and music. Then the children
who occupied the third circle were so quiet and
orderly, and repressed the cheers and applause
that would doubtless have been vociferous enough
had it not been for a promise exacted from them
beforehand by Brother Goddard, that they would
be quiet for the sake of the dear old people who
could not stand a noise and confusion.
	The play given as a benefit on this occasion
was "The Chimney Corner," and several of the
actors who used to appear upon the stage in the
earlier days of the drama in Salt Lake, gave their
services for the old people's delectation. Phil
Margett's rendition of the part he carried, really
the principal part, was done to perfection—he
acquitted himself admirably throughout, and the
others seemed quite at home in the performance.
It was all very creditably done and a suitable
play.
	Brother Dunbar's character singing, carried one
back to the time when he was really young and
in his prime.
	There were other excellent parts of the pro-
gramme and all so smooth and harmoniously
arranged; the guitar and mandolin club looked
handsome and played sweetly, the Old Folks
Choir gave choice selections in their very best
style, and Mrs. Silverwood sang, "Dear heart
we're growing old," Mrs. A. O. Thomas warbled
exquisitely a Norwegian selection, and we must
not forget to mention the two little drummer boys
in soldier costume who played so well, and
looked so charming; Masters Leslie Clawson
and Frank Barrell. This Winter pastime fo


those whose lives are a sort of humdrum exist-
ence when the weather is too severe for them to
get out, is a blessing indeed, and gives them
something pleasant to think of for days after-
wards.
	The Committee deserve great credit for their
thoughtfulness of, and solicitude for the aged, and
their own days will be happier and their spirits
more serene for the tenderness, love and honor
they have shown the dear old  people from time
to time.


A REMEMBRANCE.

	The sudden death of Mrs. Mary Jane Tanner,
of Provo, Jan. 8th, was quite a shock to all her
friends as well as immediate relatives. The de-
ceased was widely and favorably known and was
a most useful and gifted member of society.
	The writer of this was well acquainted with
Mrs. Tanner when a girl scarcely more than a
child, and from that time until the present, though
since her marriage dwelling some distance apart,
a social and friendly interchange of feelings and
ideas has been kept up by means of correspond-
ence and occasional visits.
	Mrs. Tanner was known by many through her
poetry and other writings, who never had the
pleasure of meeting her personally and her com-
forting words have been to them a solace in the
midst of sorrow and trials. Her book entitled
"Fugitive Poems" has been circulated through-
out the Stakes of Zion and also in other parts of
the country; she has been an occasional and at
times a regular contributor to the EXPONENT from
the time it was first issued, and the readers of
the paper will miss her gentle, poetic expressions
and her strong and emphatic writings on the wo-
man question.
	A brief sketch of her mother's life, by Mrs.
Tanner was published in the paper as a sort of
serial a few years ago under the title of "Jesse
Burns or Was it Fate," and was favorably com-
mented upon at the time. Mrs. Tanner was
talented in many other ways besides possessing
the precious gift of poesy—she was practical and
executive in all the affairs and transactions of life.
She was an excellent President over the Relief
Society and that position requires tact, discern-
ment, discrimination and executive ability as well
as a vast amount of patience and faith. These
gifts she possessed and turned to good account.
She will be greatly missed in the community and
especially will her loss be felt in her own ward,
and her own home where she was surrounded
with love and looked up to as the guiding star.
Of her we can truly say "Her children rise up
and call her blessed, her husband also and he
praiseth her."


R. K. THOMAS NEW STORE.

	R. K. Thomas the popular dry-goods merchant,
has removed from the Eagle Emporium building
to the new five story Culmer block 26, 28, 30, and
32 East, First South Street,where he has fifty feet
front of plate glass, and the room is not only well
lighted and elegant in appearance, but is fitted
up in the most commodious and handsome style,
with modern improvements in the way of arrang-
ing and displaying goods of all descriptions, that
are sold at retail in a dry-goods house; silk,
dress goods in great varieties, white goods of all
kinds, embroideries, laces, hosiery, gloves, muslin
underwear, shoes, slippers, ladies, childrens' and
men's furnishings, boys' clothing and fancy goods.
The basement is the same size as the salesroom
above, and fitted up conveniently for the sale of
heavier goods of various kinds such as carpets
rugs, etc, and is quite light enough for showing
the goods to advantage, in fact as light as many
stores. Mr. Thomas himself is certainly one of


the most genial and affable men in business and
that has much to do with his success. He has
had a large experience in the mercantile line hav-
ing been buyer in New York and Eastern markets
for a large and wealthy establishment in this City
for fifteen years. He is bound to succeed if push,
energy and enterprise coupled with honesy, af-
fability and those fine qualities of head and
heart that are recognized everywhere as the true
mettle.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


ENTHUSIASM.

	Another pleasant morning is refreshing after
the storm of rain and enthusiasm which came so
profusely last evening. 
	It was quite enjoyable to see the earnest and
persevering zeal manifest, not heeding the rain
storm which came quickly down, the wind having
ceased the torches burned brightly, better than I
should have supposed while rain was pouring
down. Yet true and loyal hearts were beating
beneath the wet jackets.
	Thus we are proven from time to time to test
our integrity and prove our energy for our
Father's cause. Not being enthusiastic myself
I wondered how I could drink into the spirit of it
so deeply; believing as I do that honest en-
deavors with sincere and devoted hearts will
wear well; and in a case of emergency will be
all one can ask for or need to win a good cause.
	But at the present time we are driven to what
shall I say: desperation, yes if I may use the term.
Only think to be looked upon as mean, low-lived,
the off-scouring of our Father's footstool; which
we know that we are not, but quite the opposite.
Our principles will not admit of such a character
because they are the best set of rules ever given
to man.
	Do you ask by whom made? I answer, they
were framed by the King of heaven when he
lived upon this earth, and the only rules which
will fit us to come into His Kingdom. Should
not we then be up and doing, earnest and sincere?
Have not we proven them to be the best for over
forty years? Does not reason and common
sense teach the same?
	Yet we are so easily satisfied with this world,
that we would not take time to weigh the subject
as we ought, or give it its true value. Accord-
ingly the opposite spirit must be permitted to
awaken us to duty. Only think we are not ac-
counted fit to become citizens of the United
States, or make our homes on public lands. Well
if we are not I should like to know who is?
							M. E. K.
Jan. 26, 1890.


[column 1]

THOUGHTS SUGGESTED BY RULINGS 
OF UTAH COURTS.

     My thoughts I persume have been similar to
many others upon the singular, though not in the
least surprising, decision of Judge Anderson
against the "Mormons" who are "in good stand-
ing."
     The next "monstrous measure" being ahead of
the infamous Idaho test oath is only another mani-
festation of their folly.  Their weakness is never
more visible than when undertaking to handle
the "Mormon" question.  The feebleness of their
understanding concerning its doctrines and prin-
ciples, as shown by those sitting upon the judg-
ment seat, and the aims of the people upon whom
they have passed judgment is truly pitiful; and
they appear ludicrous to those who are versed in
the things of which they show such ignorance
really it makes one smile, particularly in the high
toned, and would be autocrats who are anxiously
looking for the downfall of the "Mormon" church.
It would be well for the devout students, and 
teachers of Bible lore, whose superior knowledge,

[column 2]

virtue, and godliness leads them into the humane
act of "religious persecution," instead of spend-
ing so much precious time in trying to pervert the
fulfillment of God's Holy mandates, to read up
the scriptures, and also to post themselves on
"Mormon" history, with the gathering of Israel in
the last days.  Concerning it said the prophet
Isaiah: "Fear not, for I am with thee; I will
bring thy seed from the east, and gather them
from the west; I will say to the north give up; and
to the south keep not back; bring my sons from
far, and my daughters from the ends of the
earth."  "Mormonism is being disseminated by
the cries and reports of our enemies a thousand
times faster than it could be otherwise, for they
will go where "Mormon" missionaries are not
able at present to gain access.  Could they but
realize this and their own position with the cer-
tain failure of their schemes they would be utterly
chagrined.
     I was forcibly struck with the resemblance be-
tween the words of Judge Anderson in his final
decision against the naturalization of "Mormons"
"in good standing," and those of the Jews when
accusing and condemning the Savior with His
teachings.  They deemed them sacrilege, and
accused Him of being a deceiver, a wine-bibber,
of having a devil, and all manner of accusations
were laid at His door.  And when He said "If ye
were Abraham's children ye would do the works
of Abraham," they reviled Him saying, "We
know that God spake unto Moses; as for this
fellow, we know not from whence he is?" It
seems that His words were misunderstood, and
misconstrued just as are those of His servants to-
day.  Though their teachings are but scriptural
doctrines, taught in the Holy record which
Christian professors hold up as the only guide to
eternal life, they condemn them as if originating
from other sources, and their own ignorance of the
spirit and meaning of the scriptures is made mani-
fest.
     They have in seeking to do an evil brought into
public notice many a sacred and lasting truth
which, like gold however much it is trampled
upon will live, and polished or unpolished will cut
its way and accomplish its destiny.  Satan was
never noted for wisdom, and his armor-bearers
like himself never fail to overshoot the mark.
     Will there be found no beam in the eyes of the 
Christian advocates of persecution, the instigaters 
and makers of more stringent laws against the 
"Mormons" that they will need no mercy shown
them?  Are the crimes and iniquities laid at our
door so much greater than those in other cities
from whence comes the VAN who vaunt of their
advanced civilization the "chaste and pure" who
fear(?) contamination if the dreadful "Mormons"
are allowed an existence upon mother earth?  Not
if their own journals speak the truth.  Were all
their sins of criminal nature, degradation and
lawlessness gathered and laid open for the inspec-
tion of this delectable Judge—who, of course has
but their welfare in view, there could be no com-
parison between the condition of the ill-famed
"Mormons" and that of society outside.  When
one sided and warped officials can occupy the 
judgment seat, who will sustain those who
practice trickery and corruption, reserving the
punishment due such to be heaped upon the 
victims of their wrath, against whom the most
mischievous of falsehoods are propogated and
sent adrift to stir up prejudice.
     Some of these apostate traducers of the dead
and the living have times innumerable volun-
tarilly borne witness to the truth and godliness
of "Mormonism."  Then to turn and deny, and
declare it to be false is proof of the value to be
placed in their word, as they must at one time
or the other have testified falsely, and therefore
their testimony would not have been accepted in
an honorable court.
     Cowards will fly their colors at the approach of

[column 3]

danger, and they are to be pitied.  But for loyalty
and reverence to the laws of this land, and its
emblem of freedom to all nations, there is no
blemish upon the roll of "Mormon" history.
     We of all others have the greatest cause to love
and cling to the Constitution that was formed under
Divine inspiration, and the land endeared to us
by a thousand fond recollections and of which we
have an ancient record that it is the "land of
promise" on which Zion is to be built up, "the
church of the first born," which cannot be des-
troyed though the whole universe is arrayed
against it.  This faith is only strengthened by op-
position.  The obstacles that have been met, and
surmounted, and the things that are being wit-
nessed to day is adding to it and driving the
people together.
     The judgments were to commence at the house 
of the Lord, and Latter-day Saints can bear wit-
ness to the fact that they were the first to suffer
from mobs in the United States, they burned their
houses, robbed, drove, murdered, and committed
the most fiendish, inhuman acts, not only upon
men, but delicate, helpless women and children,
to which I and others, who are living martyrs for
the truth can testify, and to the scenes of suffer-
ing, sorrow, and privation during the days of our
pilgrimage, which could never be written except
in the eternal Record, but are indelibly stamped
upon the memory of those who participated, and
their health like my own wrecked for life in con-
sequence.  These wrongs were never redressed,
neither in Ohio, Missouri, or Illinois, and being a
loyal, patriotic people we were naturally wrought
upon by the keenest of reflections upon those
grievances and gave voice to them and our heart-
burnings caused by the unjust and unnatural treat-
ment received at the hands of our countrymen
under a government that should have succored
and redressed the wrongs that they had done us.
But this did not cause us to secede, the first
thought of the Pioneers when they had pitched
their tents upon this then Mexican soil, was to 
show their allegiance by placing our national
banner upon the Peak above the Great Salt Lake
Valley to wave as an emblem of freedom to all
nations, sects, white, black, bond or free, who
chose to come to dwell peacably and help build
the cities—seen in visious of the future, which
were looked to be enjoyed under the wise laws of
a free and generous government.
     The hardy, patient, long enduring Pioneers,
and builders and owners of these towns and
cities, etc., are more than likely to remain here,
and continue improving, making this life what it
was designed—unless directed by the Hand
that led them here and blessed these parched
and barren vales for their sakes, having borne the
"Mormons" more real and tangible blessings than
any other spot upon His foot-stool, first redeemed
by their strength, patience and skill, etc., they are
the last ones that will move away, or be driven
or exterminated by any crushing process or rul-
ings gotten up by political interlopers, and con-
spirators who have come here bent upon rule or
ruin.  Honorable men of enterprise, manu-
facturers and all modern improvements have ever
been welcome, and all who desire to be honored
citizens.  The Latter-day Saints have proven
themselves a God-fearing people.  They have 
sought to control their feelings, to exercise
charity, and have thereby subdued much of that 
spirit of resentment and retaliation which is so
natural, towards those who have outraged and af-
flicted them beyond measure.  They pray for
those who may be blindly fighting, thinking like
Paul, that they are doing God's service in perse-
cuting, or killing the Latter-day Saints.
     But claiming to be lawful heirs of Father Adam
and mother Eve, begotten to inhabit the same
planet, with similar natures and peculiarities as
others of their descendants, and clinging as tena-
ciously to our faith and opinions as did our Puri-
ant progenitors, we have claimed it our right and


[column 1]

privilege to choose the religion that best satisfies
the soul and its earthly and heavenly wants. And
when violent steps have been taken to invade,
and to sever the ties, and cherished endearments
of country, home and people whose sympathies
for each other were naturally strengthened by
suffering together, being encroached upon and
driven from place to place under the point of
bayonets, and forced from our native hills and
Temples, and the rest of mankind, with no favor
or word of sympathy from any other quarter of
the land that gave us birth, has it not been
enough without mentioning religion, to knit and
bind our hearts together? And to unite us more
closely when the cry of extermination again rings
in our ears. Persecution has ever been the legacy
of God’s people. But He says “Vengence is Mine
and I will repay."
	These peculiar trials being predicted have not
come unawares as does the thief in the night.
They have been looked for as among the inevi-
table that would have to be met in the great com-
bat. And this is why they are able to endure as
patiently as they do, and even cheerfully the un-
lawful and impious encroachments that are being
made upon them.
	"Eternal vigilance” is the watch-word, and
their final victory is written upon the banner of
truth and right, which has ever and will forever
conquer. Let those who wish to bring about a
reformation among the "Mormons" set before
them a worthy example in worldly as well as
spiritual things, after the pattern of Christ, who
said "His people must become one in all things."
Let them show equal works of righteousness with
those manifested among the majority of this
people. Where is there a community professing
Christianity that show the charity, mercy, long-
suffering and forbearance towards their fellow be-
ings, as becometh Christians, taught and lived by
the humble, but hated and crucified Savior of the
world? Where is the power of His gospel being
manifested, the administrations and gifts pertain-
to it, in any other church outside of the Latter-day
Saints?
	From the power and violence arrayed against
this work one can judge of the strength that it
has reached. Among the feeble efforts that have
been made to stop it are the steps taken to prevent
the gathering of the Saints from foreign lands.
But they might as well pass a law to stop the
emigration from the spirit world as the gathering
of the seed of Israel. There are good among all
communities who will yet receive this gospel.
Thousands will come to enquire, and learn the
truth concerning it after the Elders have been
called in from the nations, and will rejoice in the
same. There are few who now possess sufficient
moral courage to speak in defence of an unpopular
people were they so inclined.
	But, when various other denominations are made
to conform to similar laws, confiscations, etc.
which is sure to come upon the principle “as you
do unto others, etc.," they will find more room for
that milk of human kindness that is witheld from
the "Mormons” now.
	The Lord said that He would have a tried
people, that they were to come up through much
tribulation, and be made perfect through suffer-
ing. Their afflictions and humiliations have all
been profitable. But who of this generation
knows the hundredth part of what it has cost
them to be Saints? But the gospel makes them
stronger and more patient as the years roll on.
And these present fiery trials may be viewed as
harbingers of better days than the Latter-day
Saints have ever yet enjoyed. Jesus said that His
people should be hated of all nations for
His name’s sake. And there is an unspeakable
joy and satisfaction at this thought, and that
“though they be punished in the sight of men, yet
is their hope full of immortality.” The earth be-
ing the Lord's and the fulness thereof it rests with

[column 2]

Him and not their tormentors how long such
wickedness will be permitted to flourish. But
the swift judgments that have been predicted have
begun and are increasing upon the earth which is
ripe with iniquity, and we know that there will be
no cessation, but that suffering, bloodshed, mob-
bing, and wickedness of all kinds will increase.
The calamities and distress that we hear off in
our own land and all others', causes the troubles
here to seem light in comparison, and fills our
hearts with sorrow and mourning over the blind-
ness a indifference that is manifested, and the
suffering that is coming upon them, which they
might escape would they but heed the humble
champions of the gospel which the Lord com-
manded should be preached to all the world or
their blood would be found upon the skirts of
His people.
	This is barely the beginning of similar and
more awful events that have been casting their
shadows before, and which Joseph Smith foretold
would come upon this land without the wrongs
which he, and this people were then suffering
from, were requited. We are as sure of the
speedy deliverance of Zion, as we are that
another morn will break, and the darkness flee, or
that a tempest will abate when it has spent its
fury. These may be viewed as broad assertions
in the days of the judges, when to acknowledge
and obey a Superior power to earthly courts is in
their eyes a treasonable act; but I will refer such
to the following contained in the vision of St.
John.
	"I am he which searcheth the reins and hearts;
and I will give unto every one of you according
to your works. And he that overcometh, and
keepeth my works unto the end to him will I
give power over the nations.”
					H. M. WHITNEY
	Jan. 24th, 1890.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
R. S., Y. L. M. I. A., AND P. A. REPORTS

SCOFIELD.
Editor Exponent:
	I thought perhaps a few lines from this out
of the way place might be of interest to some
of the readers of the Exponent. Our Relief
Society is in a tolerably fair condition. We
hold two meetings monthly and are trying to
do all the good we can. The majority of the
Sisters work energetically,there are a few who
do not take so much interest.
	Our Relief Society was organized in Aug.,
1882, with the following officers: Harriet Wal-
ton, Pres. Ella G. Ingles, First Coun. Agnes
Russell, Second Coun. Rachel Ann Gatherum,
Secretary, and Mary Ann Morgan, Treasurer.
	Your Sister and Co-laborer,
		Rachel Ann Gatherum, Sec.

EMERY STAKE.
	The Relief Society Semi Annual
Conference of the Emery Stake was held at
Castle Hale, Oct. 18th, 1889. Two meetings
were held during the day, Sister Elizabeth
Howard, from Salt Lake City was present and
the Stake Presidency of the Relief Society
were on the stand, and representatives from
the different wards with a goodly number of
sisters filled the house.
	Sister Anne U. Larsen presided in the meet-
ings and gave a report of the Stake; as far as
she was acquainted with the situation it was
favorable.
	Presidents of the several wards gave reports
land it was learned that the “labor of
love is increasing and the poor and missionaries
are first and most considered and the little
mites are gladly given to forward the cause
of  “Relief.”
	Sister Howard occupied most of the time in
the afternoon and touched briefly but pointedly

[Column 2]

on prayer, going to meetings, Word of Wis-
dom, reading good books, keeping the Sabbath
day holy, to observe the Fastday, to preserve
health and shun the vain and foolish
fashions of to day; how to partake of the Sacra-
ment, keep away our children from sectarian
schools, to learn our boys a trade, advocated
woman suffrage and recommended the golden
rule of the Savior: “Love one another.” Pres.
C. G. Larsen and Counselor Wm. Howard
were also present, and gave some very good
counsel and encouraged the sisters not to be
weary in the work of charity. Beside the fol-
lowing sisters were the most prominents peakers:
Anne Pulsipher, Josie Childs, Anne U. Lar-
sen, and several others. The meetings were
well attended, the speeches spirited and all
agreed that they had enjoyed another feast in
our "lovely mountain home." 
		Kathinka Andersen, Asst. Sec.

MARICOPA STAKE.	
	The Quarterly Conference of the Maricopa
Stake was held at Lehi, Dec. 18th, 1889.
Pres. Sarah M. Pomeroy presiding, her Coun-
selors were also present with, the President of
the several branches. Of the brethren, C. I. 
Robson, Stake Pres., Coun. H. C. Rogers, with
Charles Allen and others. The opening ex-
ercises were followed by verbal reports of the 
several branches by their respective Presidents;
showing that all were feeling interested in their
work and a general feeling of unity and faith-
fulness prevailed.
	Pres. S. M. Pomeroy and Coun’s. in turn ad
dressed the conference, and gave wise and
timely advice.
	Coun. H. C. Rogers said the remarks of the
sisters had called to his mind ideas which he
had never before thought of. It seemed
strange that we should be forgetful and care-
less of duties when such blessings were in store
for the faithful; but thought forgetfulness was
planted in our hearts that we might have it to
overcome.  Said, this was one of the waste
places of Zion, was flattered that he had the
privilege of assisting to build it up.
	Brother Allen felt a cheering influence in
our meeting, encouraged the saints to live
faithful.
	Brother Brimhall said our reward would be 
according to our diligence.  "Without the
spirit of the Lord we can do nothing, but with
it our yoke is easy and burdens light.” 
	Sister Valenzuela (a Pima sister) spoke in
her native language, Sister Susan Savage in-
terpreted. She bore a faithful testimony to
the good spirit working in the hearts of her
people.	
	Pres. C. I. Robson spoke briefly, gave some
instructions regarding the general fast day,
quoted from Paul on the subject. Said the
saints had been more faithful under trying
circumstances than when peace and prosperity
reigned.
	Closing remarks by S. M. Pomeroy, ad-
journed for three months.
					  F. E. Robson, Sec.
	 Mesa, Jan. 6, 1890.

UTAH STAKE.
	Minutes of the Relief Society Conference of
Utah Stake held Nov. 30th, 1889.  Sister John
presiding with her Coun. Marilla Daniels.
	Conference opened with singing, and prayer,
the reading of minutes of former conference,
etc.
	Sister John felt grateful to our Heavenly
Father for health and strength to meet  with  
us again, alluded to the good time we had at
our last conference, hoped we should have the
spirit of God with us today to guide us in what
we should do and say. Called on the presi-
dents to represent their different branches over
which they preside.  Seven presidents re


[column 1]

sponded to the call and gave encouraging re-
ports of the few, the same faithful few that al- 
ways attend these meetings. Each Pres. bore 
a strong testimony to the truth of this gospel 
and hoped to hold out faithful to the end.
	Sister Standring after representing her ward
felt to bear her testimony to the truth of this 
work, and exhorted the sisters to renewed faith-
fulness, said we would be held responsible for 
the way we magnify our callings, we have need
to rejoice at our persecutions, I wish to live to 
see Zion redeemed, our Savior's coming is near
and let us so live that we may have oil in 
our lamps and be ready for his coming, etc.,
etc.
	Sister Marilla Daniels felt it a privilege to 
meet with the sisters again, had many testi-
monies to bear, each testimony we hear our 
sisters bear strengthens us, the Lord has turned
the key in our behalf and He has blessed us 
in our administrations to our children. Be 
watchful and prayerful, put away pride and 
selfishness, be faithful and watchful if our 
Savior should come now we should not be
able to stand in His presence, etc., etc. 
	Susa Y. Gates was pleased at the remarks 
of the sisters that had spoken, loved to hear
the sisters bear their testimonies it strengthened
and encouraged her, she had had many testi
monies for herself, was trying to overcome her 
faults and live humble and prayerful. Ex-
horted mothers to attend the Primary Associa-
tions with their children. Encouraged the 
sisters to uphold Sister John and her coun-
selors for their untiring efforts traveling around
among the sisters, etc. 
	After singing and prayer Conference ad-
journed till 2 p.m. 
	Afternoon session opened with singing and 
prayer. Sister Brown from Pleasant Grove 
felt well paid for coming to Conference and 
hearing the testimonies of the sisters. Knew
this work was from the Lord and that we would 
come off victorious. I feel that we have been 
preserved in the hollow of his hand, there have 
been plots and plans laid for the destruction 
of this people ever since Joseph had the first 
revelation, but they have never retarded this
work. we have increased all the time because 
it is God's work. Let us all do right and I 
have no fear, in the spirit of God there is 
safety and in no other way, etc.
	Sister Anna K. Smoot always had a testi-
mony to bear; by hearing our sisters speak we 
learn to know each other, if we realized that 
more, it would help us and we would be more 
punctual in our attendance at meetings. How 
great a thing it is to day we know this is the 
kingdom of God we cannot say it without his 
will and His spirit; let us keep His spirit that 
we may be enabled to continue to bear that
testimony lest darkness overtake us, we may 
omit something or do something that will 
darken the spirit and we may lose it entirely,
Spoke in the interest of teh Primary Associa-
tion, exhorted mothers to set their children 
good examples for they will remember them 
when your words will be forgotten, etc.
	Pres. John said "I am thankful to meet with 
you and am pleased with the remarks that 
are made, they are timely and worth treasur-
ing up, faithfulness to our duties is com-
mendable, these societies are great helps, they 
are a tower of strength to advance the king-
dom. Woman's position will be advanced 
from this time; our Savior talked with Eve 
and also with Sarah and Mary. Joseph re-
vealed the doctrine that we had a mother in 
heaven. Christ first appeared to woman after 
His Crucifixion that shows how she was 
viewed by him. Woman is entitled to be equal 
with man, every key of the priesthood that 
man has, woman can enjoy with her husband,
women are our first and last friends, we could 
not do without them, we go side by side, let 
us be careful of our children and guide them 

[column 2]

 aright, teach them to value the teachings of 
good and holy men. We are not through our 
troubles yet, but the Lord rules, the kingdom 
of God is not dead it is alive," etc.
	Sister John felt that we had a great work
before us, and said, "let us live that we can 
have the smiles and approbation of our 
Heavenly Father. We will now adjourn for 
three months, singing, "The time is far spent 
there is little remaining." Benediction by 
David John.
					C. DANIELS, Sec.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[column 1]

WOMEN OF THE BIBLE.
BY A. B. C'S

	[A Lecture delivered at Manti, Dec. 6th, '89,
before the W. S. A.]
	Mrs. President—Ladies — In the earlier
chapters of the Bible when men lived more in
consonance with God's holy laws, we find a 
greater number of women mentioned than we
do in the later centuries, as I perceive, men
arrogated more to themselves, until finally—in
the middle ages, woman, was regulated to the
lowest and most disagreeable tasks; being
treated little better than a mere  beast of
burden.
	The very first woman of whom we hear any
account in Holy writ. was a woman named
Eve; and although Adam may have been uni-
formly kind and considerate, allowing her
great privileges, which we are morally certain
he did—or she never would have been left so
much in the society of the "Tempter."
	Modern women might have complained of
neglect, be it to her credit I never heard that
she did.  But, judging her by myself, and we
are told that self judgment is a righteous one,
I opine that, discontentment was her chief
characteristic.  And who among her descend-
ants at the present day can attach blame?
Doomed as she was to wander, for untold
centuries, within the precincts of that cele-
brated garden, separated from all female com-
panions, with whom she was wont to associate 
in her former high estate, and whom she doubt-
less loved with all the ardor of her pure and af-
fectionate nature, permitted only the com-
panionship of Adam (if we except the Serpent)
and if I am allowed to judge Adam by most men
of my acquaintance, he was probably very in-
different company, as men’s conversational
brilliancy is seldom exerted to any consider-
able extent for the benefit or entertainment of
a wife.
	Deprived also of a woman's crowning glory,
comfort, joy, and motherhood!  Who I ask can
blame her for being discontent, and desiring
a change in her monotonous existence? even
though that change included Death!
	The interesting family of Lot should next
occupy our attention, and much might be said
on the inquisitive propensities of Lot's wife,
who like Fatima in the castle of Blue Beard
must indulge just one peep in the forbidden
regions—the consequence in both cases result-
ing in much general good, though apparently
disastrous to the chief actresses at the time.
	We will next notice Sarah, the wife of
Abraham, who must certainly have been a wo-
man after God's own heart, and one also whom 
He delighted to honor.  We quote "Where-
fore she said unto Abraham. “Cast out this
bond-woman and her son.” And the thing
was grievous to Abraham and he carried the
matter to the Supreme Court; and we read
that “God said unto Abraham, in all that Sarah
hath, said unto thee hearken unto her voice."
	I wish family quarrels, in these days could 
be disposed of in the same manner."  (Ap
plause).
	With your permission ladies we will now
follow poor Hagar in her wanderings in the
desert.  "And Abraham rose up early in th

[column 2]

morning and took bread and a bottle of water,
(putting it on her shoulder) and gave it unto
Hagar and the lad and sent them away."
"And she departed  and wandered in the
wilderness of Beersheba." "And the water
was 'spent' in the bottle, and Hagar was lost
in the desert, and Ishmael was dying of thirst!
With swollen tongue, eyes almost bursting 
from their sockets, panting and struggling for
breath, he sank upon the burning sands of
the desert.  The wretched and abandoned
Hagar could endure to look upon his sufferings
no longer, so placing his head under one of
the stunted desert shrubs, to obtain the benefit
of the meagre shade it afforded—"She went as
it were, a bow shot off, and sat down, and
lifted up her voice and wept."
	Oh! that terrible, agonizing wail of despair,
rending a mother’s heart. 
	Lost! Lost in the wilderness! driven from
home by Sarah, by Abraham, the father of her
child, and by her Heavenly Father. Deserted
by God and man, and perishing in the desert.
I do not say she did not merit the terrible
agony of that hour, but many times, we at the
present day, feel that our punishment is greater
than we can bear.
	Abraham must have taught Ishmael to pray,
for aroused by his mother's cries of distress,
we read that "God heard the voice of the lad,"
and the angel of God called to Hagar out of
heaven, and said unto her "Hagar what aileth
thee? fear not! arise! lift up the lad in thine
hand, for I will make him" &c. And God
opened her eyes and she saw a well of pure
water and she went and filled her bottle and
gave the lad drink, he revived, and they con-
tinued their journey, and he became the father
of a great nation whose hand, to-day, is against
every man and every man's hand against him.
The fierce Bedouin of Arabia.
	We will now take a glance at that sweetest,
meekest, and most dutiful maidens, who
was so ready to become the wife of Isaac.
Ere long we perceive the lady in possession
and developing a will of her own, and events
plainly prove that God not only acknowledged
approved, and honored that will, but relied
upon her fine powers of discretion, and dis-
cernment of character, as she, with all a
mother's love and keen powers of perception
knew that her darling Esau, her first born, with
his wild roving habits, his generous and brave,
but hasty, passionate and cruel temperament,
was not as competent to become the father of
a wise, enlightened and progressive people, as
the more thoughtful, dutiful son; the son that
would accept counsel of his mother—and that
mother remember was a woman—and so, al-
though she was compelled (through the ob-
stinacy of Isaac) to resort to stratagem to ob-
tain it, she gained the first blessing for Jacob,
and as women usually are she was right.  If
you are unconvinced of this read the history
of the two people, the Israelites and the
Edomites, the latter being a cruel, revengful
people, as witness for instance, Herodias, the
step-daughter of Herod Antipus, the latter
dancing for him, then demanding and receiv-
ing in return, at his hands, the head of John
the Baptist, on a charger.  I think even the
men, who claim so loudly against woman's
rights would scarcely relish association with
the Edomites, if Herodias and her daughter 
are a fair sample of the female descendants of
Esan.  Imbueing her hands without cause in
the blood of an innocent man, and that man
a Prophet of the living God! the time and
place a banquet! I can admire the heroism of
women in times of war when the finer in-
stincts and feelings are swallowed up for the
time, in the excitement and anxiety for the
safety of their kindred and country. But 
the cold blooded murderers! O horror! she
sickens my soul!
	If you admire modesty and retirement in a
woman who fully understood, realized and ap-


[Column 1]

preciated all her rights, turn with me to the
inspired prophetess who dwelt “under a palm
tree between Ramak and Bethel in Mount
Ephriam, and judged Israel at that time, and
the children of Israel came up to her for judg-
ment.”
	When the country was invaded by Jabin’s
army under command of that successful and
skillful general, the famous Sisera, she sent
for Barak, to take command of the hosts of
Israel.  But the faint-hearted Barak said unto
her “if thou wilt go with me I will go, but if
thou wilt not go with me I will not go.“ She
answered “I will surely go with thee, notwith-
standing the journey thou takest shall not be
for thine honor, for the Lord shall sell Sisera
into the hands of a woman.” And Barak went
up with ten thousand men at his feet, and
Deborah went up with him.  Then we read the
description of a terrible battle and of the en-
tire rout of Sisera's army, and how Sisera in
attempting to make good his escape on foot
feel into the tender mercies of a woman who
could perform deeds of valor for the liberties 
of the nation if not for her own individual
rights.  We read "Howbeit Sisera fled away
on his feet and came to the tent of Jael the
wife of Heber the Kenite."  And Jael went
out to meet Sisera and said unto him, "Turn
in my lord turn in unto me, fear not," and he
after many warnings of precaution went into
the tent and she “covered him with a mantle.”
Then when he had “fallen asleep from weari-
ness,” Jael, Heber’s wife took a nail from the
tent, and took a hammer in her hand and
went softly unto him, and smote the nail into
his temple and fastened it to the ground.”
Then follows the sweet song of Deborah, which
for vividness of description is unsurpassed,
permit me to recommend it for your careful
perusal ladies; I will quote a few sentences, the
sentiment of which my heart echoes.  "The in-
habitants of the villages ceased, they ceased
in Israel until I, Deborah arose, I arose a
mother in Israel.  My heart is toward the
governors of Israel, that offered themselves
willingly among the people, bless ye the Lord.
Blessed above women shall Jael the wife of
Heber the Kenite be; blessed shall she be above
women in the tent.  He asked for water and
she gave him milk, she brought forth butter
in a lordly dish.”
	"She smote off his head when she had
pierced and stricken through his temples.”
	We find also in Holy writ, a most forcible
and brilliant example of what women can do,
towards securing and maintaining their “equal
rights” with man, by the undaunted and coura-
geous manner in which the five daughters of
Gelophahad stood by the door of the Taber-
nacle before Moses, Eleazer, the princes and all
the congregation, demanding their rights of
inheritance; saying, “our father died in the
wilderness; and he was not in the company of
Korah, that gathered themselves together
against the Lord, but died and had no sons.
Why should the name of our father be done
away from among his family because he had
no sons? "Give unto us therefore a possession
among the brethren of our father!"
	This importunate demand appears to have
somewhat discomfited the great Israelitish law-
giver; he was completely nonplussed by a
family of young and beautiful, but determined
and dauntless girls.  Moses knew not what to
do until, as the good book tells us, "He
brought the cause before the Lord."	
	"And the Lord spake unto Moses, saying
The daughters of Gelophahad, speak right."
And commanded an inheritance be given them.
Thus a precedent was established which was
ever afterward regarded as a law in Israel. 
	Now I dare venture to assert if Malah,
Hogleh, Noah, Milcah and Tirzah, had lived
in these days, and had dared to assert their
claims before Moses, Eleazer, the princes and

[Column 2]

all the congregation. before the door of the 
Tabernacle; men would have sneered and said,
"attend to household duties," "strong minded,"
"clamoring for their rights" "Unsexing them-
selves," "out of their sphere" &c.

		"Woman's 'sphere' is bounded only
			By the talents God has given,
		And her duty lies wherever
			Earth can be made more like heaven."

	Now Mrs. President and Ladies we do not
lack material for lectures so long as there
still remains in the Bible unmentioned by us
such characters as Miriam; Ruth, Naomi,
Vashti, Esther, Susannah, Judith, and the wo-
man who was the mother of seven sons, with
hosts of others both in the Old and New Testa-
ments.
			ADELIA B. COX SIDWELL.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.

	To the memory of Mrs. Mary Jane Tanner, who de-
parted this life Jan. 8th, 1890.
	Sister M. J Tanner has been Pres. of the Relief Society
of the 3rd Ward Provo City since its organization in May
1868 being over 21 years.  She was recently sustained by
unanimous vote Pres. of Utah Co. Woman Suffrage Asso-
ciation which was organized Oct. 23, 1889.
	Whereas our Father in Heaven in His Divine wisdom,
and Providence, has seen fit to remove from our midst, a
good and noble woman, a useful and honored sister, a
mother in Israel and champion of woman's rights who has
endured many trials, and spent her life in His Church and
Kingdom on earth, and has gone to join her friends behind
the veil, —
	Whereas we the women of the W. S. A. of Utah Co.,
and of the 3rd Ward R. S. Provo City, mourn her loss in
these associations and her ability amongst her friends and
acquaintances,—
	Resolved that we recognize the infinite mercies of God
and feel that He doeth all things well, and that we hold in
remembrance her virtues and good qualities, in discharging
her duties and we deeply recognize her loss.
	Resolved that we the members of the W. S. A. and of
the R. S. Provo City sympathize with the husband and
family in their bereavement in the loss of a kind wife and
mother.
	And that a copy of these resolutions be placed on the
records of these Associations, and sent to the WOMAN'S
EXPONENT and the T. and D. Enquirer for publication.
						MARY JOHN,
						MARRILA DANIELS,
						ELECTA BULLOCK,
						CAROLINE PRATT,
									Committee.


OBITUARY.

	Died at Burrville January 3rd 1890 of heart disease
Josephine Crandell Kirkman, wife of Joseph Kirkman, well
and hearty apparently, took supper with her family at half
past four, and at five o'clock she lay a corpse. Deceased
was born Jan. 18th 1857 at Springville Utah. She was the
daughter of Myron and Susan Crandell aged 32 years, 1
months and 15 days.
	Deceased was a true and faithful wife and a loving
mother we greatly mourn her loss. She was a faithful
member in our Relief Society, was lastly called to the
office of teacher, and the day before her death took all
her family to Fast meeting, enjoyed herself greatly in the
testimonies that were given by the brethren and sisters, also
in the afternoon at the Society meeting she bore a faithful tes-
timony, talked about the trials past, present and the future;
wished and prayed to be faithful to the end, and she has
died a faithful Latter-day Saint.
	To the family of the deceased.
	Memorial of respect to the family of Josephine Crandell
Kirkman teacher of our Relief Society.
	Whereas, our esteemed sister and fellow laborer Josephine
Crandell Kirkman, has by Divine Providence been removed
from our midst by the hand of death, and
	Whereas, by her regular attendance at our meetings we
have been enabled to know and appreciate her good char-
acter.
	Therefore be it resolved, that we the sisters of Burrvile
deeply mourn her loss and sympathize with her bereaved


husband and mother and family in the loss of so good a
wife, daughter and friend.
	Resolved that we tender to her sadly bereaved husband
our heartfelt sympathy for so great a loss.
	Resolved that a copy of these Resolutions be sent to the
family of the deceased, also a copy be sent the WOMAN'S
EXPONENT, and the same be placed in the minutes of the
Society.
				SARAH BURR,
								President.
				ANNA ANDERSEN,
				SARAH JANE CLOUERT,
								Counselors.


UNION PACIFIC
THE OVERLAND ROUTE
TICKETS
ON SALE
TO ALL
﻿PRINCIPAL POINTS
EAST, WEST,
NORTH and SOUTH
—AT—
UNION TICKET OFFICE,
Main Street, Salt Lake City.
			J. V. PARKER,
				Asst. Genl. Pass. Agt.

R.K. THOMAS
26, 28, 30 and 32 East 1st South St.,
SALT LAKE CITY.
The Leading Retail
Cash House.
R. K. THOMAS

Special to the Ladies.
AT TEASDEL'S
Will be found the latest styles and productions
in
LACES, RUCHES, EMBRODERIES,
FANS, GLOVES, PARASOLS,
RIBBONS, COLLARS, TIES
And an elegant assortment of
DRY GOODS.
	Special department for Ladies' Misses' and In-
fant's Shoes.
			112, 114, 116, 118 East Temple Street

	DAVID JAMES & CO.
TINNERS GAS, WATER & STEAM FITTERS
	Agent for RUMSEY'S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from
the country promptly responded to.
	Address. DAVID JAMES, Box 306, SALT LAKE CITY.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.﻿
The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.
