VOL. 18.  SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, FEBRUARY 15, 1890.    No. 18.


CONTENTS.
	An Address, Women of our own Country, and
Women in Other Lands.—A. W. C. Greeting.—
S. M. Kimball. Dawning of a Brighter Day.—
A. N. Bowring. A Happy Occasion.—Lottie M.
Webb. Millard Co., W. S. A.—M. A. Y. G.
Star of Bethlehem. An Ancient Convent Burned.
Notes and News. Hephzibah. R. S. Reports—
St. Charles—Davis. Utah W. S. A. Important
Items.
	EDITORIAL:—President Woodruff, His Views
on the Present Situation. "Fear Not, Zion."
Editorial Notes. Notice. A Loved One Passed
Away.
	POETRY:—Departed.—L. M. Hewlings. A.
Poem.—Ruby Lamont. We Have Been Poor
Together.—Augusta Joyce Chrocheron.


DEPARTED.
BY L. M. HEWLINGS.
The glory from my day has all departed.
	Beauty has vanished and eloquence is hushed;
Unreconciled, I wander heavy-hearted,
	Rehearsing bitterest words, "Dust unto dust.”
In vain I listen through the long Still Evening,
	Watching with weary eyes thro’ gathering gloom,
For one sweet voice to break the stillness round me,
	For sound of footsteps that will never come.

Alone I sit with mem’ries of my darling,
	Whose voice gave thrill of gladness, now grown dumb.
To love’s own call responsive e’en in sadness;
	Ready of heart and will, good deeds, were done.
I gather up with tortured heart love’s treasures,
	Letters and books, and precious things bestowed,
Racked with the thought of ties forever severed,
	To walk henceforth alone upon life's road.

Science, philosophy, searching mysteries.
	Must we vainly question where has love-light fled?
Affections that made life here Elysian,
	Answer to the soul’s reason, dispel this dread !
Into delightful fields of exploration,
	The occult and hidden things bring to view,
Climbing successive rounds in nature's kingdom,
	Solving wondrous problems, both of old and new.

Search beyond these hounds into infinity,
	The nature of soul itself to us reveal;
Uplift the veil that hides the sought for city,
	And the great law-giver’s government unseal!
Science and philosophy both are silent,
	Powerless to raise the veil, or further climb,
Beyond the bounds of mortal vision finite.
	Such knowledge comes but thro’ a power divine,.


A POEM.
Precious darling, mama’s joy,
Vacant is thy place, sweet boy—
	Oh, my heart is nigh to breaking,
	Sleeping darling, or awaking,
	Still that heavy, heavy aching
For my lost, my precious boy !

Busy feet, bright, curly head,
Are ye truly, truly dead?
	Little lips so full of kisses,
	Little heart so full of blisses,
	Little hand with soft caresses,
Can it be that ye are dead ?
 
Dazed, my heart is, precious love !
Up I look, dear, up above; 
	Through the blue I try to find thee,
	Oh, my heart hath ne’er resigned thee!
	Dost thou darling, dost thou mind me
In thy brighter home, sweet love?

Oh, I mind thee in the morn
Ere the golden light be born,


And I mind thee in the gloaming
	And when beacon stars are roaming
	O'er the dark sea's purple foaming,
In their distant, silent scorn.

Oh, our hearts are lonely yet,
Lonely, yearning, sobbing pet;
	Gone from earth our sweetest treasure,
	Gone, with thee, life's brightest pleasure,
	Only Hope left in the measure
And sweet Mem'ry, precious pet !

God is good, we turn and say,
Stricken hearts, a little day
	And a little night of sorrow,
	Then a waking on the morrow,
	No more grief our hearts shall borrow
In the dawn of God's bright day—

Give us grace, O, Father kind,
Through this gloom Thine Hand to find,
	Ever strength'ning, ever leading,
	In our hearts Thy mercy pleading,
	Healing still the hearts that, bleeding,
Turn to Thee for balm to bind—
						RUBY LAMONT.


[column 1]

			﻿AN ADDRESS.
[WOMEN OF OUR OWN COUNTRY, AND WOMEN
			IN OTHER LANDS.]
	A few years since to be a prominent
suffragist was to subject one's self to ridicule
and disfavor. The description of strong-
minded women, so graphically but so unkindly
portrayed in the character of Mrs. Jellyby, by
Charles Dickens, was pretty generally accepted.
If a woman inclined to be literary or business-
like she was at once pronounced a perfect Mrs.
Jellyby, not always, in truth, by the men, for 
the conversion of the women has been one of
the hardest tasks for the pioneer suffragist.
When this all-important subject was in its in-
cipiency, Dickens was of all novelists the most
popular; he was the fashion and he exerted his
fine efforts to ridicule and laugh down a ques-
tion which has proved too formidable for even
the wonderful pen of this gifted writer to sub-
due. His volumes of wit and sarcasm over
which the world so raved, and without which
no library is quite complete, are now seldom
taken from their shelves, save to remove the
dust, and Mrs. Jellyby is scarcely thought of,
while the enfranchisement of woman is a ques-
tion of the hour; it is constantly before the
public, and increases in popularity every day.
The daily papers are full of reports of woman's
work, in philanthropy, temperance, education,
the industries, dress reform, literature, medi-
cine, social reform, politics and art. It has
become a national question. The long petitions
which are annually sent to Congress are each
year lengthened by thousands of new names
until now the suffrage women are like a great
army, gaining new strength, new recruits,
brightening and improving their weapons every
hour, and steadily and surely marching on to
victory.
	In a comparatively new country, and under
a liberal republican government where woman
is held in high regard and receives most splen-
did educational advantages, one almost wonders
why any greater freedom is asked, and the
rich society lady says, "I don't wish to bother
with that question, I always thought I had
rights enough," and the poor drudge lady says,
"I haven't time to think of these things, its no
use anyway." But there is a change; some

[column 2]

day perhaps this society lady who had rights
enough is left a widow, and she awakes to the
fact that her fortune has been speculated away
and she must earn a living. She tries first
teaching, and if her education is thorough she
succeeds moderately well, but the work is very
hard and the wages not extra: still she does
not complain for awhile, but she wonders how
Mr. — who lives near and teaches a similar
school to her's manages to live so much better
than she can, and she enquires about his salary
and finds it nearly double her own. Does he
work longer or harder? Does he accomplish
more? Oh, no; but then he is a man, and men
cannot be expected to teach for as little as
women. Oh, then, thinks this little lady, the
men better do all the teaching; so she decides
to clerk, and obtains a situation in a large dry
goods house; she is a very pleasing clerk, and
is kept busy all day long from eight in the
morning until eight at night, handing down
goods and measuring yards of this and yards
of that, suggesting contrasts and assorting
shades. A very nice sales-lady that, I wonder
what she receives? Oh, pretty good pay (for a
woman), sixty dollars a month; so, and the
young man at the next counter, who does just
the same kind of work and comes and goes at
the same hour, does he get sixty dollars also?
Certainly not! he is a man with a young family;
he has one hundred and twenty-five, and little
enough it is at that. And has the sales-lady
no one to support? Yes, she has an invalid
mother, for whom she must always try to do a 
little extra, and two growing boys to feed,
clothe and school; so when the lady sees that
men clerks are so much more deserving, she
decides to learn a trade, and possibly becomes
a printer; being quite apt and bright it is not
long before the principal and most particular
work in the office is given to her. Pay day
arrives, and this bright woman receives less
than the man at the next case, and she knows
she has done more work, and she asks, how is
that? Oh, says the employer, men are paid
sixty cents a thousand, and women are paid
forty. And these are not the only instances
of industry that are conducted on this princi-
ple; in fact, it is so in the large factories and
in almost every branch of work. 
	A few experiences of this kind soon-teaches
the rich society-lady that she really has not all
the rights she wants, and, in trying to better
her own condition, she learns that other women
suffer injustice too; she has awakened to the
call, and she joins the army; and the poor
drudge lady, she has her experiences too, so
many and so sad, that she finally rebels against
the wrongs and injustice done her, she also has
awakened and becomes a recruit.
	The independent, free-thinking woman takes
the leadership, and in reviewing the vast
amount of work she has accomplished, she
certainly deserves the place. In 1848 it was
only some half dozen women who called a
Convention at Seneca Falls, New York, and
demanded equal  educational, industrial, pro-
fessional and political rights for women, now
the different organizations of women can
scarcely be numbered. Of those rights, they
then demanded, not many have been wholly
obtained, unless we except the professional;
but "barriers have been burned away," walls
of prejudice have been torn down, and the
Universities have opened their doors, the plat-
form seeks the lady lecturer; and such posi-
tions as physicians and police matrons, that


[column 1]

﻿once received utmost opposition, are now be-
come a necessity. The marvellous work done
by the Red Cross and other kindred societies,
can only be learned through such great scenes
of distress and suffering as the Johnstown
floods, the Mount Vernon earthquakes and the
Seattle and Spokane fires. Woman’s progress
in this country is steadily, rapidly, and surely
reaching the wonted goal. In the beginning
of this address we termed the Woman’s Suf-
frage question National; let us correct the
statement and say universal, for the call has
been echoed throughout the world, and the
women of all nations have awakened to the
sound. In studying the educational and po-
litical conditions of women of foreign nations,
how they are deprived of knowledge and con-
trolled by superstition, bigotry and papistry,
where the prejudice against woman’s advance-
ment is, as it were, rooted in the soil, the task
seems so hard, the obstacles to overcome so
insurmountable that, one wonders can it ever
be accomplished, can the chains that bind
them ever be sundered? And stopping for an
answer to our inquiry, one almost hears the
breaking of the chains. Two years ago this
winter, in answer to the call of the American
women for a Woman’s National Congress,
across the mighty seas came messengers of
every clime, laden with telling and interesting
reports of woman’s position in their several
countries. There was the honest, intelligent
English woman, whose advancement has been
almost as rapid as the American; the bright
and witty French woman, the noble and
straightforward German, Hollander and Dane,
the Russian, the Icelander, the Italian and the
Hindoo.
	It might be interesting to quote a few para
graphs from some of these reports, for each
lady can better tell her country-woman’s con-
dition, and I will begin with the last men-
tioned—the Hindoo.
	The women of India sent to the American
Council, the cultured and refined Pundita
Ramabai Sarasvati, who, after giving her re-
port to the Council, made a lengthy tour
through this country, and to other nations, to
publish abroad the wrongs and trials of the
child widows of India, and gain, if possible,
some assistance in their behalf. She very
simply and plainly relates the condition of her
country women long ago and tells how, step
by step, they have advanced to a certain de-
gree of education. Still are they little less
than slaves. Let her own words tell the story:
“In olden times in our country, some few
women were allowed education, and stood on
the same footing as the great men: They used
to hold discourse with men on equal terms;
and it is said in some of the sacred books of
the Hindoos, that once on a time there was a
woman who wielded great power over the
assembly of sages, and even held conversa-
tion with one of the greatest philosophers of
the time. After that it was thought best by
our men to keep the women completely in ig-
norance, so that they might have more power
over them; and these men had discovered the
fact that if education was given to women it
would be impossible for them to keep them
under complete subjection, and so in time,
women were completely deprived of any kind
of education, except now and then we had
some princes and learned men, who wanted to
have wives beside them who could read and
write. So a great many women were allowed
just enough education to make verses in praise
of the men, and praise them all the time, but
the common women were, of course, not al-
lowed any education at all.” “But,” she fur-
ther says, “now, through the influence of the
English, the missionaries and some learned
men, the women are permitted to attend a
primary school for nearly two years.” The
school age is from seven to nine. “At nine

[column 2]

they are taken out and betrothed to boys their
own age and that is the end of their edu-
cation.”
	After more and sadder descriptions of the
ignorance and serfdom of Hindoo women, she
cheerfully presents a brighter side by telling
that in 1878, the doors of the Universities
were thrown open to women and then began
the higher education; and now steps are being
taken by women to build a Medical College in
Madras; and in Calcutta and Bombay there
are many women preparing to be physicians.
So much for the Hindoo women; in eleven
years have they risen from utmost ignorance
to the plane ot higher education and are
building colleges for themselves. One won-
ders how the hierarchy of the priests and great
prejudice of the men could have been so over-
thrown; perhaps it was the advent of the Eng
lish among them introducing enlightened man-
ners and customs, and perhaps it was only the
awakening of the women to their unjust and
lowly condition.
	We will now cross to lands which boast the
highest civilization, and see what they have
done towards woman’s emancipation. Extend- 
ing into the classic waters of the Mediter
ranean lies fair Italy, whose cities were once
the Mecca of learning and of art; whose
praises have been sung in every tongue; whose
warriors were the bravest; whose palaces and
cathedrals are the pride and wonder of the
wonder of the world, and yet what a pitiful
wail comes from her fair daughters. Madam
Salazaro, editor of the Woman's Review,
Rome, writes, that Italian women are mere
slaves to men. True, education is compulsory,
and there are many schools; but the education
is not sound, rational, fitting one for life’s
realities, but so superfluous, that it fits them
for nothing at all. The Constitution forbids
woman a public position, and her social posi-
tion is indeed deplorable. In the girls’ schools,
bi-weekly lectures are given by men; no woman
has yet been allowed to address them; though
some attempts have been made to do so.
Taking Madam Salazaro’s figures, such small
wages are paid women for work, that it is
really more genteel to beg. “Under these
circumstances,” she writes, “marriage is the
best solution of the problem, and girls use all
the fascinations of youth, beauty, dress and
coquetry to catch a husband,” Such unions
seldom realize the high ideal of marriage, for
she continues, “Bear in fact that love matches
are rare, and expediency is the usual motive
for entering the married state; the conse-
quences are often life-long misery and unhap-
piness. Under the civil code woman has no
existence apart from her husband. He is her
lord and master in all things, and as she is
supposed to owe all things to him, he has com-
plete control of even her private fortune,
should she have any.” No matter how terribly
ill-used a wife may be she has no redress; but
if she fails to fulfil her wifely duties according
to her husband’s demands he, should he
choose, can have her punished. There is no
divorce law, and no matter how wretched
two lives may be when once the mar-
riage is consummated it binds forever. But
to-day there are, in Italy, a few women physi-
cians and one woman lawyer, though she is not
allowed the liberty to practice her profession.
The Italian Parliament are considering some
measures tending to alleviate the wrongs of
women; and in Rome there is published a
woman’s newspaper, and its columns are full
of pleas and arguments in the Italian woman’s
behalf.
	The world well knows that in past years
Italy was much more glorious than now, and
her civilization has been the grandest, and yet
are her women scarcely so well provided for as
the Hindoo. Madam Salazaro declares the
chief reason to be Religious bigotry. The

[column 3]

Papacy, she says, is fast losing its influence
over men; but by means of the confessional
and pulpit its ministers have hitherto kept a
firm hold on the women of their congrega-
tions. Farther north, in Switzerland, France,
Germany, the Netherlands, Scandinavia and
Britain, much more progress has been made.
Universities have opened their doors, and
women are allowed and encouraged in many
public duties, though we shall still feel there
is much to overcome, and a great deal to
accomplish in the way of woman’s emancipa-
tion, in countries where women may frequently
be seen hitched to a cart by the side of a large
dog, hauling produce and wares to the market,
while the great, strong, stubborn husband
walks behind with a whip in his hand crying
his wares for sale; such is really the case in
Switzerland and Germany to-day,
	In noting the advancement of woman in
different lines it seems, that in medicine, has
the greatest progress been made; throughout
the world it is the medical college that have
received her, and people have shown less preju-
dice and disfavor to that profession; though, of
course, charity and philanthropy are practical-
ly tasteful to woman and there is no disputing
her supremacy in that field. We gladly re-
turn with lightened hearts to America and
fervently say, “God bless a country where
woman is no slave, but free, respected and
beloved.”					A. W. O.
	Delivered to the Ogden W. S. A., Feb. 14,
1890.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


GREETING.
Fellow Suffragists of Utah:
	In this the first month of the new year I
take pleasure in entending to you kindest
greeting and sympathy in your labors for the
re-enfranchisement of the women of Utah and
for the enfranchisement of all intelligent wo-
men of every land and clime.
	Education and agitation are our best
weapons of warfare.  We can best educate
through organization; therefore the necessity
of thorough organization and active interest
in the different localities.  Believing that the
best results follow the deliberations of men and
women, we favor the admission of men as mem-
bers of the association.	
	Interest is awakened, and the best good
seems to follow a systematic course of politi-
cal study, commencing with the Constitution
of the United States, followed by the study of
municipal, county, territorial, state and national
government.
	Just and equitable government is essential
to happy homes and refined society.  We are
steadily approaching the looked-for time when
women will, as they should, have a voice in the
political conditions that so vitally effect them
and theirs.
	It an important part of woman's work to
help to establish purity in politics and to
establish an equal code for men and women.
Let the good work of the past year encour-
age us to further effort and perseverance.
"The price of liberty is eternal vigilance."
				S. M. KIMBALL,
Pres. Woman's Suffrage Association of Utah.
	Jan. 15, 1890.


Our grand business is not to see what lies
dimly at a distance, but to do what lies clearly
at hand.—Carlyle.

	Every one must see daily instances of people
who complain from a mere habit of complain-
ing, and make their friends uneasy, and
strangers merry, by murmuring at evils that
do not exist, and repining at grievances which
they do not realy feel.—Graves.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


WE HAVE BEEN POOR TOGETHER.

	O Jenny, Jenny, can it be
		You did not know my face?
	I watched for you adown the lane
		Long ere I reached the place;
	The wheels rolled slowly for my heart
		I longed to see you so;
	For we were friends together
		In poverty and woe.

	You knew me?  Yet your gentle face
		Smiled with no glad surprise.
		And where's the look I used to see
	Within your tender eyes?
		They told you I was rich--you feared
	The right once free to take?
		O, Jenny, what is friendship's claim
	But love for love's own sake!

	Yes, true it is, to me restored
		Are riches once long lost,
	But those long years have also proved
		The true friends by their cost.
	Could I forget when here we lived-
		Those old days side by side.
	The cold and hunger that we shared
		When both our dear ones died?

	To dress my baby for the grave,
		You stripped the cover white
	From off your pillow, and you sewed
		While I wept through the night.
	O, Jenny, gold and taste may buy
		Robes white and rare and fine,
	But fairer gift a bride ne'er wore
		Than robed that babe of mine. 

	T'was all you had and I had none—
		The gift of love to death—
	The boast of wealth beside such deed
		Is but as wasted breath.
	We have been poor together,
		We know each other's heart;
	Now widowed, childless and alone,
		Why should we ever part. 

	We'll rear above your Robert's grave
		A shaft to mark his worth;
	No braver heart through want and woe
		Sank broken to the earth.
	The cruel sea with angry roar
		My Donald's body keeps,
	Round him the waters wind their weeds
		And chant the while he sleeps.

	We'll plant above my baby's grave
		The flowers she loved the best,
	And deck this cot, through sorrows dear,
		To be our spot of rest;
	And we who loved each other so
		While want and grief we bore,
	Will share the blessing that God gave
		And part on earth no more.
					AUGUSTA JOYCE CROCHERON,
Bountiful, Feb. 8, 1890.


[column 1]

DAWNING OF A BRIGHTER DAY.

     The Dawning of a Brighter day is near at
hand for Israel, we feel it through the com-
motions in the world, the changing seasons,
etc., show that the coming of our Lord is
near at hand, and that the silver lining of the
dark and lowering clouds which so long have
o'er spread the canopy, are about to burst
forth from the shadow and will fill the hearts 
of the tried, enduring, but faithful sons and
daughters of Zion with joy, who so long have
borne persecutions “revilings, imprisonment,”
the scoffs and jeers of their enemies in every
conceivable form, mostly without a murmur;
but with all confidence in our Creator knowing
that He over rules all things and that not a 
hair of our head is lost or a sparrow falls to
the ground without His notice.
     Who says "Come unto me all ye that are
weary and heavy laden and I will give you
rest," who think you my sisters is in need of
this rest which our Savior holds out to us? is
it the rich and titled of the land? "Oh no,

[column 2]

they never weary" in heaping to themselves
the riches and honors of this world but labor
with untiring energy continually for the things
that perish; no matter who are the losers or
what obstacles stand in the way;—is it the gay
and fashionable whose every wish is gratified,
whose life is a dream of pleasure and enjoy-
ment, "who toil not neither do they spin," do
they weary and want rest? I think not;—but
it is the patient, enduring, humble, God-fear-
ing Latter-day Saints who through all their
revilings, revile not again, who are bearning
the heat and burden of the day, withal re-
joicing yet heavy laden, and looking forward
to that beautiful day of rest, the Millenium
the thousand years of peace when the lamb and
the lion shall lie down together, and the meek
inherit the earth.
     Then should we feel down cast or sorrowful
while such heavenly prospects are almost
within our reach, verily no, it is good to suffer,
if for a righteous cause, it enlarges the heart,
ennobles the mind, purifies the system of the
dross that is within, making us more pliant
and better fitted to be molded to the will of
our Heavenly Father who will eventually, if
we are patient, long suffering and abounding
in good works, bring us back into His pres-
ence to enjoy the society of the just made per-
fect through suffering.
     But the race is not to the swift, or the
battle to the strong, but to those who endure to 
the end, who fight valiantly for the truth, ac-
knowledging God in adversity saying in their
hearts here am I Lord prove what is good in
me, watching for the silver clouds in the dis-
tance, how often did our Savior say He came
not to do His own will," then should we have
any wish in our hearts but to do the will of the
Father, we who are so much more mortal than
He, who suffered all things for the building up
of our Father's kingdom, nay; rather let us 
renew our diligence in all humility for the 
cause of God, who has promised not to place
upon us no more than we are able to bear,
but to fit the back for the burthen."  Our
enemies are only working out the measure of
their days—not usefulness I am sorry to say,
but to their utter discomfiture when their eyes
will be opened and they behold they have been
fighting against the Church of the Lamb
thereby destroying the weak and tender plants
and placing heavier burdens upon the already
weary and heavy laden.
     But the hour of our deliverance is nigh as
with children of Israel who were delivered
from the bondage of their oppressors, so in the
due time of the Lord when He thinks it is 
enough shall we pass out from under the iron
hand of oppression, their reign of power is of
brief duration, in the meantime, let us weed
the garden of our hearts of every unculti-
vated plant, prune and dig around the roots of 
every substance that needs cultivation till our
tabernacles are pure and free from sin,
strengthening ourselves in the love of God
praying always that the Lord may bless us
with wisdom, setting good examples before all
men and partaking not of the sins of this
wicked and adulterous generation.
     Then will the Lord look in tender compas-
sion upon us and administer unto us of His
love, will heal up the broken-hearted, will lift
our heavy burthens, and say "Come unto Me."
Then will the sons and daughters of Zion re-
joice and shout Hallelujah! Hosannah to God
and the Lamb for His mercy endureth forever
then will the silver clouds shine forth in all
their beauty heralding the glorious dawning 
of a brighter day for the pure in heart the
Zion of our God.
					A. N. BOWRING.
Brigham City, Jan. 25, 1890.


A clock tower is to be erected at Leidbury,
as a memorial of Mrs. Browning, the poet.


A HAPPY OCCASION.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	On the 24th, of Nov., the citizens of this
little town met in a social party in honor of
our respected brother and former bishop J. C.
Owens.  The evening was spent in speeches,
songs, essays and recitations and in partak-
ing of a bountiful picnic.  A good spirit pre-
vailed, and all enjoyed themselves very much.
Brother Owens expressed himself pleased and
gratified at this expression of the respect in
which he is held in this community.  The
occasion will long be remembered with pleasure
by all who participated in it.
			Respectfully,
					LOTTIE M. WEBB.
	Woodruff, A. T. Dec. 11, 1889.


MILLARD CO., W. S. A.
	A meeting of the W. S. A. of Millard Co.,
was held Jan. 8, 1890, Mrs. M. A. Y. Green-
halgh presiding.  The meeting was well at-
tended, the speakers were the president, who
gave an account of the movement, and the ef-
forts being made to secure to women, equal
rights with men, and the rights which every
citizen ought to possess, H. B. Bennett, Neil
M. Stewart, W. H. Stott, and W. Stewart
made short, but telling remarks upon the sub-
ject, expressing their full concurrence with the
object of the association, their willingness to
do all in their power to assist the women in
their struggle for liberty.  The choir sang
several of Freedom Songs, many names were
enrolled, and altogher the meeting was an in-
structive and agreeable one.
						M. A. Y. G.


STAR OF BETHLEHEM.
	The star of Bethlehem will again be visible
in this year, being its seventh appearance since
the birth of Christ.  It comes once in 315
years and is of wondrous brilliance for the
space of three weeks; then it wanes and disap-
years after seventeen months.  It will be a
sixth star added to the five fixed stars in the
constellation Cassiopea while it remains in
sight.


AN ANCIENT CONVENT BURNED.

	The convent of Muri, in canton Aargou,
Switzerland, has been burned nearly to the
ground.  The building dates from the eleventh
century, and was within recent years trans-
formed into a museum and at the same time
a retreat for pensioners on the treasury of the
canton.  Much of the carved wood-work and
furniture is lost, together with many precious
books and manuscripts.  This place was a most
wonderful repository for specimens of illumi-
nated vellum.


NOTES AND NEWS.

	Matilda Joslyn Gage, Lillie D. White and
others are agitating the question of a new,
national suffrage association, to be called the
Liberal Suffrage Association.

	Not long since a Spanish artist was com-
missioned to paint a portrait of the baby King
Alfonso.  This he did, and when the painting
was completed presented his bill for $20,000.
The Queen Regent, Christina, objected, say-
ing the price was too extravagant.  The artist
expressed his regrets that his terms were too
high for the royal purse, and begged her
majesty to accept the picture as a gift.  The
Queen, highly indiguant, wrote a check at
once.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.
Woman’s Exponent.
EMMELINE B. WELLS, - Editor.
	Published semi-monthly, In Salt Lake City, Utah Terms:
one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months, 50 cts. No
reduction made for clubs. City papers delivered by mail,
extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonparell
space, one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal discount
to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, No. 25 E., South Temple Street, second
gate east of Deseret News Office. Business hours from 10 a.m
to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
			Publisher woman’s exponent.
							Salt Lake City Utah.
	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
Second Class Matter.
Salt Lake City, 	-	 - 	February 15, 1890.


[column 1]
		﻿
		PRESIDENT WOODRUFF.
HIS VIEWS ON THE PRESENT SITUATION.

	SALT LAKE CITY, Feb. 11.—President Wood-
ruff, the head of the Mormon church, today gave
to the Associated Press the only Statement he
has ever made upon the political fight which has
just ended here.  His interview, which is as fol-
lows, can be understood as the feeling of every
Mormon in the Territory:
    "President Woodruff, I would like to get your
views as to the political campaign here and the
questions at issue."
    "Well, sir, I consider this as something more
than a mere question of what men shall compose
the city government and what party they belong
to.  There is a deep-laid scheme to deprive the
Mormon people of all political rights and privi-
leges so that the minority here may obtain control
of the Territory.  They cannot do this by fair
means so they resort to foul.
    "By misrepresentation and taking advantage of
popular prejudice against the Mormons, founded
chiefly in ignorance, they succeeded in securing
the disfranchisement of the older settlers who
made the country, and then of all the women.
This not giving these schemers a majority, they
have sought other means.  The Edmunds-Tucker
act has helped them somewhat, but the test oath
it provides can be taken by a majority at least, as
well as by their opponents.
    "Now they want every Mormon deprived of the
right to vote and hold office, no matter how good
and law-abiding a citizen he may be.  At the
Ogden election a year ago, large numbers of the
names of resident voters were stricken from the
registration lists, hundreds of non-residents were
imported and  the  election  was  carried  by the
Liberals by open fraud, and since then, by ficti-
tious valuation, the assessments of property have
been raised from three to five times the former
amounts of taxes, vice has flourished,  official
salaries  have been raised, public improvements
have not advanced, and the change is deplored by
the best people of both parties.
    "Boasts were made after the Ogden election,
that Salt Lake would be the next point of attack,
and that it would be carried by similar means.
The result has proved the boast not to have been
made in vain.
    "I consider the election has been gained here
by striking from the registration lists hundreds of
legally qualified citizens and by the votes of
hordes of new comers not lawful citizens.
    "I regard the action of the registrars, their sit-
ting as a court to judge of their own acts, and the
whole course pursued, as part of the scheme to
capture the city at all hazards.  I view it with
profound regret as prostitution of law and official

[Column 2]

power that should sadden every lover of fair play
and welfare of his country."
    "What effect will this change have upon the
Church and the People's Party?"
    "Oh, as to that I cannot see that the Church
will in any way be affected as an organization. It
is entirely separate and apart from political mat-
ters; members of the Church belong to the Peo-
ple's Party, and they will naturally feel that they
have been robbed of their rights at the polls.
But I presume that it will not affect their political
views or status.
    "The Church was not in that campaign and the
result will have no bearing upon it at all  that  I
can see."
    "What will be the future policy of the Church?"
    "So far as I know, it will be to preach the Gos-
pel to all the world; instruct its members in their
religious duties, and move forward to its divinely-
ordained destiny as the actual living Church of
Christ."
    "Is there any probability of the Mormon
Church or people removing to Mexico or else-
where?"
    "None that I know of.  I do not see any neces-
sity of such removal.  Individual members may
go where they choose to better their condition,
but there is not, nor has there been any contem-
plation of any such exodus as you ask about."
    "What is the Mormon idea of its rule as the
Kingdom of God?"
    "It is this:  We hold that this Church was set
up and organized by command of the Almighty;
that it has the right to formulate and maintain
rules of church discipline applying to its own
members;  that the extent of its punitive powers
is the excommunication of the transgressor;  that
it has no power to punish anyone by deprivation
of life, liberty or property, or personal injury in
any form; that governments should not regulate
the church, nor the church seek to control the
state; that all men should be politically free and
equal, free to vote as they please and to sustain
what politics they please, so that they do not in-
fringe upon the rights of others.
    "We believe this Church will prepare the way
for the coming of Christ to reign as King, and
that this Church will then develop into the King-
dom of God, which all the Christians pray will
come, that the will of God may be done on earth
as it is in heaven.  We believe in the full and free
agency of man, and that when that kingdom is
established there will be perfect liberty on earth,
civil, political and religious."
    "Then you do not feel gloomy as to the ultimate
result of this election?"
    "No, I believe taxes will be raised, that there
will be such a looseness of restraint imposed upon
immorality, and such a striking contrast formed
under Liberal rule, that order, honor, honesty
and consistent progress of the city under the
People's regime, that as in Ogden, the more
respectable people of all classes will soon desire a
return to former methods.  The plotters against
the majority will probably be emboldened to pur-
sue their plans for the destruction of a republican
government in the Territory,  but I should be
sorry to believe that Congress or the country will
proceed to such unconstitutional and infamous
extremities as those that will be proposed.  In
any event, there is a Power superior to all men,
who will overrule all things that happen for the
good of those who serve Him."
    President Woodruff appeared to be in good
health and not in the least worried over the result
of the election.  He is now in his eighty-third year
and apparently as strong and well preserved as
the ordinary man at fifty.


The Quarterly Conference of the Relief Society
of Utah Stake will be held in Provo Friday, Feb. 28.


“FEAR  NOT, ZION.”
	President Woodruff’s views of the political sit-
uation in Salt Lake City given to an associated
press reporter are a very fair statement of the
facts, and there is little need of comment. The
outside element from which the Latter-day Saints
fled with their lives in their hands, a little
more than forty years ago, has pursued them
with a persistency worthy of a better cause, and
after having urged Congress into special legisla-
tion and made all offices once in the gift of the
people appointive, have now succeeded in taking
possession of the City government, here where a
little band of weary pilgrims, worn with travel,
established themselves in the midst of a desert of
sagebrush, where vegetation was not, in a parched
and barren alkali soil, inhabited only by savage
tribes of Indians, wolves, black crickets and
snakes in abundance; and indeed it required al-
most superhuman courage to live from day to day.
But the “Mormons” were consoled by one thought
—they had left their enemies behind them;  the
mobs that had burned their homes and treated
them so cruelly; and though many of their loved
ones died of fatigue, privation and hardship, yet
they rejoiced that a remnant was spared to enter
the “promised land” where Zion was to be estab-
lished in the tops of the mountains and all nations
flow unto her.
	It often happens that the destiny of a people, or
a nation, is worked out very differently in its de-
velopment and fulfillment from what was expected
or anticipated by the wisest men and philosophers,
who have made predictions concerning that which
would be likely to transpire; but God's plans
never fail and His decrees must come to pass;
therefore He will not forsake Zion nor this people,
notwithstanding the dark clouds that hang about
the horizon to-day. He has not forgotten His
promises and He will yet “make the wrath of man
to praise Him and the remainder He will re-
strain;” and though men who are strangers sit in
places of honor and trust to-day and have control
of public funds, while those who toiled and en-
dured untold hardships to build up the waste
places, and economized for the public weal are
cast out therefrom, and not allowed even a minor-
ity representation to which, according to the de-
cision of a United States Judge of the Court of
the Territory, they are justly entitled, there is
one above who will take cognizance of all these
things, and when the day of reckoning comes He
will remember those who have oppressed Israel
as He did anciently.
	Men boast loudly of what they will do to the
“Mormons," and one need be wise and cautious
to avoid difficulty.  The early settlers in these
valleys who labored to make homes and gardens
and habitations wherein to dwell, with a scanty
supply of food and raiment and sometimes as it
were starvation staring them in the face, living
upon roots and herbs for days and weeks together,
can scarcely view with complacency the present
state of affairs, and see those whom they know to
be their open enemies exult in what is to them, the
wresting away of their sacred rights.
	Sometimes when remembering the sorrows of
the past, the exodus from Nauvoo in mid-winter,
the scenes of suffering at Winter Quarters on the
Missouri river, the graves that are scattered by
the wayside all along the route, one is ready to
exclaim, is it not enough? and yet the sublimity
of the faith of the Latter-day Saint is equal to any
and every emergency, and acknowledging the
hand of the Lord in all things gives the true Saint
that blessed assurance that Zion will triumph over
all her foes, and that it is necessary for those who
would becomes saviors upon Mt. Zion to come up
through great tribulation.
	Fear not Zion! where are all those who fought
against the Saints in the days that are past? What


honor did they gain?  So it will be with those
who seek to oppress the Latter-day Saints at the
present time.  They will not accomplish the plans
they have devised, and they will yet be caught in
the very snare they have laid for the feet of the
innocent and unwary.  God is greater than man
and "it is impossible for men to measure arms with
the Almighty."  The Latter-day Saints know of
a surety that the Lord God Omnipotent reigneth,
and that is why they do not fear for Zion.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


EDITORIAL NOTES.
	The Quarterly Conference of the Relief Society
of Sanpete Stake will be held on Friday, the 14th
of March, at Ephraim, commencing at 10 a. m.
and 2 p. m. The Conference of the Y. L. M. I. 
A. will convene on the following day. By order
of Mrs. M. A. Hyde, President Relief Society
Sanpete Stake.

	The Quarterly Conference of the Relief Society
of this Stake will be held Thursday, the 13th of
March, in the Fourteenth Ward Assembly Rooms
in this city; meetings commencing at 10 a. m.
and at 2 p. m. A punctual attendance from all
parts of the County is especially desirable, and
brethren and sisters interested in this benevolent
institution are cordially invited to attend the
Conference. M. Isabella Horne, President R. S.
Salt Lake Stake; Elizabeth Howard, Secretary.

	On the 8th of February Mrs. Sarah  M. Kimball,
President of the Woman Suffrage Association of
Utah, and Mrs. Maria Y. Dougall, left this city as
delegates from Utah, to attend the National-
American W. S. A. Convention, to be held in
Washington on the 18th, 19th, 20th and 21st of
February. The ladies arrived in Washington in
time to attend the banquet given in honor of Miss
Susan B. Anthony's seventieth birthday anniver-
sary at the Riggs House, which is the head-
quarters of the suffrage delegates in Washington
D. C. 

	The steel engraving of Bishop O. F. Whitney,
which by the by is a very good likeness, as well
as finely executed, is now ready, and forms a
frontispiece for his volume of poems, which ren-
ders the book still more valuable. The books
previously issued to purchasers, if returned to the
office of the Juvenile Instructor, can have the
engraving inserted free of cost. This volume of
poems is now for sale at the Juvenile Instructor
and Deseret News offices, and at Parry's  book
store, C. R. Savage's and Margetts Bros. The
work is a valuable addition to any library, and
especially to the libraries of the Latter-day Saints,
as the poetry is strictly of a religious and sublime
character, embracing the most exalted themes,
and awakening the spiritual emotions of the reader.
"Whitney's Poems," as he has entitled the book, is
the first book of poems issued by one of the
Elders of the Church since Elder John Lyon
published "The Harp of Zion." There are to be
sure several brethren who have written for the
News, the Millennial Star and many miscellanaeous
poems for magazines, etc., but we do not recall a
volume published. The author therefore stands
quite alone in this respect, for Brother Lyon has
passed away, though his poems live after him,
and many of them are gems of Scottish poetry as
well as genuinely "Mormon." Bishop Whitney’s
poetical writings stand out clear and distinct from
all otter poems; he is unlike in style and tone
any other poet in the Church. Originality marks
his work and his themes; he is not particularly
dreamy and emotional, but more majestic and
lofty than most young writers. We ardently hope
that the young Bishop will continue writing and
that he may reach the sublimest heights obtainable
in poetry and song.


NOTICE.
TO THE STAKE PRESIDENTS OF THE Y. L. M. I.
ASSOCIATIONS.
	For several years we have endeavored, but with
only partial success, to obtain full reports from all
the associations. We again appeal to the Presi-
dents of Stakes and earnestly beg of them to 
interest themselves to have their secretaries ob-
tain full reports of the different societies, and then
compile and forward them to the secretary of the
Central Board, Miss M. E. Cook, 158 W. Third 
South Street, so as to reach her not later than
March 15th, in order that she may prepare her
report for the General Conference of the Church,
April 6th, 1890.
		GENERAL SUPERINTENDENCY
					OF Y. L. M. I. A.


[column 1]
A LOVED ONE PASSED AWAY.
		NETTIE S. ALDER.
Born Oct. 14, 1870.		Died Jan. 10, 1890.

		"Sister, thou wast mild and lovely,
			Gentle as a summer breeze,
		Pleasant as the air of evening,
			When it floats among the trees.

		"Peaceful by thy silent slumber—
			Peaceful in the grave so low;
		Thou no more shalt join our number;
			Thou no more our songs shall know."

	Once again we have cause to mourn the de-
parture of one of our dearly loved members. On
Friday evening, Jan. 10, 1890, the sweet spirit of
our dear sister and friend, Nettie Alder, passed
away.
	What an indescribable sadness came over us
upon hearing of this sad event! How tears un-
bidden flowed from our eyes, and would not be
checked! We could not at first realize the pain-
ful truth. But alas! too true. Nettie has left us. 
Her pure, noble spirit has taken its flight. Words
cannot express how keenly we feel the loss of this 
dear one from our number. We realize that in
parting with Nettie we have lost one of the bright-
est and most faithful workers in the association.
	From her childhood Nettie has been an inter-
ested and a useful member, always performing the
labors assigned to her willingly and well. We
shall miss her bright face from our midst. As the
roll is called we shall no more hear the gentle
voice answer with a beautiful sentiment. No more
can we listen to the bright ideas with which she
was wont to respond to the programme. By her
sweet, amiable disposition, Nette gained our
lasting love and affection; her bright intellect
won our earnest admiration; while her virtue,
integrity and true womanly dignity incites our
emulation. But she has left us. Why she should
have been called away we know not. It is one of
those decrees of divine Providence that it is difficult 
to understand. It is hard to bow the head and 
say, "Thy will be done."
	Nettie's life was like that of a beautiful flower
that has budded and bloomed to perfection, then
drooped, faded and died. But like many beautiful 
flowers she will spring up into life at another
season, more beautiful, more perfect, more love-
able. 
	To Nettie's parents and loved ones: We ex-
tend to you our heartfelt sympathy in this hour of
your bereavement. We realize that your sorrow
is a great one, and that words are weak to console
unless accompanied by that soothing spirit that
gives comfort to the aching heart. You feel that
the sunshine has gone from your home; to you
the sun does not shine with its usual brightness.
There is a place in your home that is vacant; a 
place that no person can fill. Such and kindred
[column 2]
thoughts are but natural. But do not let your
grief be so great as to drive the Holy Spirit from 
you, for this, and this alone, can fill the void in
your hearts. Remember our Savior said, "Blessed
are they that mourn, for they shall be comforted."
	For nineteen years Nettie has brightened your
home with the sunshine of her presence, but she
has been called away. He that bestowed this
blessing upon you has taken her again.
	While here her future looked bright and prom-
ising. She is enjoying a future far brighter and 
happier than earth could have given her had she
remained.
	Try to realize that in parting with Nettie you
have added one more treasure to those gone be-
fore; one more link to connect you with that
bright home above, and one more hand to beckon
you along that straight and narrow path that leads
to life eternal.
	We as a band of sisters earnestly pray that the
Spirit of God will permeate your home. May its
sweet influence soothe and comfort you, heal your
wounded hearts, and shed a brightness over your 
souls that no earthly power can dim. 
			"Dearest sister, thou hast left us;
				Here thy loss we deeply feel;
			But the God that has bereft us,
				He can all our sorrows heal.

			"Yet again we hope to meet thee,
				When death's gloomy night has fled;
			Then on earth with joy to greet thee,
				Where no bitter tears are shed."

	Officers and members of the 17th, Ward Y. L.
M. I. A. 
					MRS. J. C. HOWE,
								President.
					MISS. ELLA DALLAS,
								Secretary,


HEPHZIBAH.
XV.
	The springtime came with all its loveliness,
		And to the village maidens pleasures brought,
	Betrothals—promises of happiness;
		O love, how many changes thou hast wrought!

	The first few days that followed Hepsie’s
baptism were spent very quietly; she felt deep-
ly, but said little. Elder McG— noticing
the quietude of her demeanor, divined the
cause and sought an opportunity for conversa-
tion. Finding her alone, he addressed him-
self to her in such a way that she could not
avoid answering. “Do you comprehend, Hep-
sie, the great importance of the obligations
you have taken upon yourself, in becoming a
member of the Church of Jesus Christ of Lat-
ter-day Saints, and have you a knowledge of
its doctrines?” The girl opened wide, her
great blue eyes, and looked him in the face in-
nocently, yet with surprise. "Mr. —"
she said, “I know nothing, except that I have
been obedient to the wishes of my mother and
have forsaken all else. My school-friends will
not recognize me now; they are lost to me, as
they are to Lucy Reynolds."
	“But you have accepted something better,
higher and purer than the wisdom and learn-
ing of the world.”
	“How am I to know that the Everlasting
Gospel will make me wiser and better and
purer? Tell me that if you can?”
	“By prayer and humility,” the Elder an-
swered, and he explained, in the most eloquent
manner, doctrines and principles entirely new
to her, but which she grasped quickly. He
related circumstances concerning life at Nau-
voo, and told her much of Joseph the Prophet. 
Like Mary of old, she pondered these things
in her heart. From time to time she heard
the local Elders speak in the meetings of the
branch, and she became better aquainted with
the truths of the Gospel.


[Column 1]
	Meantime other young people though older
than Hepsie, were making rapid strides in ad-
vancement, and a company of Saints were pre-
paring to go to Nauvoo; the spring was open-
ing, and early in April, about forty of those
who had received the Gospel were expecting
to start  Among these were several unmarried
men and maidens, and the fathers and mothers
thought it would advisable to have those who
were old enough, marry—perhaps, being New
Englanders, they preferred their sons and
daughters to marry there, rather than in the
"Great West," of which, in those days, Eastern
people had many peculiar and crude ideas.
So those young folks were paired off, so to
speak. "Matches are made in heaven," it is
said; but of these few, it is doubtful, at least
so thought Lucy Reynolds and her little friend
Hepsie.
	"It's a great pity, said the child one day
to Miss R—, “that you are not going to be
married to young Mr. W—, instead of
that scheming old maid C. A. She has no
education, no sentiment; and I doubt if she is
sincere in religion even. She will never make
him happy, and you could, and would."
	"How is it, Hepsie," said Miss R—, that
you are always interesting yourself in love
affairs? One would think you an oracle, the
way you deliver opinions; but how do you
know Mr. W—- is going to marry C—?
He surely will not."
	"Oh yes, he will; she has talked it over with
mother, and more than that, his brother S—
is going to marry Miss M. L—, and she is
far worse.” “Well, I am surprised," replied
Lucy.
	"Do you suppose love has anything to do
with the affair?"
	"I am sure I can't tell, but it may be better
so; they are marrying for principle, and that
ought to be right."
	"We shall see, Lucy; but then you broke
your engagement for principle, and I suppose
you are ready to marry for principle"
	"Hepsie, you jump at conclusions; I am
not likely to marry at all, and if I do, I hope
to be a truly devoted wife."
	The girls talked on in this strain until in-
terrupted by Mrs. H—, who came to tell
them four or five marriages would be solemn-
ized on Sunday next, and on Tuesday the com-
pany would start for Nauvoo—and she added,
"How I wish I could take my family and go
with them. I long to see Nauvoo, and the
Prophet, and hear his voice." But she knew
that she could not go then, yet the spirit of the
gathering was upon her, and she tried to im-
press Hepsie with it; the child had not par-
taken sufficiently of the spirit of the Gospel
to enjoy and appreciate its blessings and priv-
ileges. At present her mind was occupied
with these “ill-assorted marriages,” as she
termed them, and the lack of true love, she
fancied there was in the unions about to be
formed.
	"I shall be glad when they are all gone to
Nauvoo," she said one day to Lucy. "I know
you will feel much happier, you seem so down-
hearted, now—and if Mr. W— had asked
you to be his wife and taken you with  him,
you would not need mourn for Henry."
	"Hepsie, child, I thought you believed in
love; can one overcome it so soon?"
	"Yes, with a little pride; when a man slights
you because of your belief, let him see you can
look higher; show him you have some spirit, if
you are a 'Mormon.'"
	"We shall see in time, my dear; you see, you
are not in love, and never have been, and yet
think you know more than those who have
had an experience; don't you know, child,
that one must have experience in a matter
before judging it?"
	"You have had a kind of sad experience,
Lucy. I am afraid I should not come out of

[Column 2]
the furnace of trial, so good and noble as you
have."
	Poor Hepsie little dreamed what the future
had in store for her. The weddings were cele-
brated, notwithstanding Hepsie’s serious ob-
jections, which, as the parties knew nothing
of, could not affect them in the least.. On the
Saturday evening Lucy R— called on
Hepsie to inquire if she intended going to
meeting to see the marriage ceremonies per-
formed. "No, indeed, I am not," Hepsie re-
plied excitedly. "Besides I am going away to
school so far that I shall be a perfect stranger
and try to devote all my time to study, and let
love affairs alone."
	"Where are you going. child; to Boston?
It seems to me you ought not to go without
advice from the Elders."
	"Mother has talked it over with Elder Mc-
G—, and he says it will be best, and that
when mother is ready to go to Nauvoo, I shall
be qualified to teach in one of the great insti-
tutions of learning, that will be built there;
for the Prophet Joseph Smith believes in the
most perfect education. I am to take drawing
lessons and vocal music too, at the high school
at G—."
	"I am sorry you are going, Hepsie. I wish
we could all go to Nauvoo now. I have no
other wish at present; but father is away in
Maine, and does not even know that we have
been baptized, and we cannot leave grand-
mother you know. She will not listen to a
"Mormon" Elder, and so the prospect looks
dark for us."
	( On Sunday, according to previous arrange-
ment, the meeting was held at the residence
of one of the local Elders a little distance
out from the village, and the marriages were
solemnized after the close of the services; five
couples were united in the holy bonds of matri-
mony. The two young graduates, fresh from
college, were married to the young ladies of
whom Lucy and Hepsie had spoken as un-
suitable companions for those refined and
learned young men. It was a red-letter day
in the newly-organized branch, and there was
great rejoicing among those assembled on the
auspicious occasion. The gifts of the Gospel
were manifest, and many testimonies of the
truth were added to those already received for
the strengthening of this little band of humble
Latter-day Saints.
	Mrs. Hathaway went home rejoicing in the
glorious truths she had heard, and soon after
her return, opened up a conversation with
Hepsie, who had remained away from the
meeting, contrary to her mother's wishes. She
related full particulars of the marriage cere-
monies,) dwelling especially on the impressive-
ness of the service as compared with marriages
witnessed elsewhere. She was full of faith,
zealous in the interests of the cause she had
recently espoused; and to her, everything per-
taining to the Gospel seemed sublime and
piecious. The prejudices of sectarianism that
are often so strong and hard to overcome, had
no weight with her; she cast them aside as so
many broken chains of superstition that had
held her in bondage, and buckled on the new
and bright armor of the Gospel, without the
least doubt or hesitation.
	("If you had only heard, Hepsie, the power-
ful speaking of those very young girls, in the
gift of tongues and interpretation, it would
have been a convincing testimony to you, and
you could never have forgotten the glow of
their countenances. Indeed it was heavenly;)
but better, almost, than all else that I have
heard, and much as I have enjoyed the teach-
ing and preaching of the Elders from time to
time, I have never heard anything that affected
me so much as what Elder V— said to-
day about baptism for the dead."
	Hepsie was thoroughly aroused now, though
she had listened listlessly before, her attitude

[Column 3]
and expression betrayed the interest she felt
in the subject; every feature of her striking
face beamed with enthusiasm, as she ex-
claimed, "What can we do for the dead? What
do you mean, mother; can we talk to them?"
In a moment her mother saw the drift of her
thoughts and hastened to explain: "You are
familiar with the Bible and have read it
through carefully. Do you not remember in
the Epistle of Paul to the Corinthians. where
it says, "Else what shall they do which are
baptized for the dead, if the dead rise not at
all? Why then are they baptized for the
dead?" To me, this principle surpasses in
grandeur, any other I have heard, extending
into the ages of the past and giving the living,
power to redeem the dead." Mrs. Hathaway
had spoken eloquently, and Hepsie was gradu-
ally coming to a knowledge of the truth; un-
consciously, almost, her senses were being
quickened; little by little her mind was ex-
panding to grasp the priceless treasures offered
so freely, and which the pride of the world
and her ambition had nearly hidden from her
view.
	On the Tuesday following, as had been ex-
pected, a company of about forty persons,
men, women and children, members of the
Church in the village B—, started on
their journey to Nauvoo; traveling by land in
wagons: they were joined by several others
from adjacent towns, so that the company
numbered about eighty souls. This was early
in the spring of 1842. It was an event of
much significance to those interested, and
caused quite an excitement in the quiet village,
where erstwhile, year after year, things had
gone on so regularly; now there had come a
new departure, and naturally enough it aroused
the indignation of the clergy, and provoked
much animated discussion.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


R. S., Y. L. M. I. A., AND P. A. REPORTS

		ST. CHARLES STAKE.
EDITOR WOMAN'S EXPONENT:
	The Primary Associations of Bear Lake
Stake, though situated far from head-quarters,
are, we believe, prospering fairly. This Stake
reaches into a portion of Utah, Idaho and 
Wyoming, and consequently lies in three coun-
ties; and to visit the Stake twice during the year,
which the Presidency aim to do, is a work of
no small magnitude.
	There are 21 Associations in the Stake with
over eleven hundred members, who will
eventually become a power in the land, and
with parents, Primary, Sunday School, and
other teachers rests the responsibility of mak-
ing that power a support or a hindrance to
the Priesthood and the work of God.
	The local officers are faithful to their duties
and seem to comprehend the importance of
their mission. If one doubts that it requires a 
vast amount of wisdom, energy and patience to
successfully conduct an organization of this
nature, let him try it.
	Our Associations have contributed over $100
to the magnificent Tabernacle recently com-
pleted in this Stake, and have also furnished it
with nearly 200 yds. of carpet for the aisles.
	Primary conference is held every six months
and is well attended. The time is occupied
principally by the children, who entertain
their parents and friends with an interesting
and well rendered programme.
	We earnestly hope that much good will be
the result of all labors directed among the
children of the Saints, that when the time
comes for them to shoulder the responsibilities
now resting upon older ones, that the moral,
physical and intellectual training they are re-
ceiving will enable them to better perform
those duties.
				ANNIE LAKER, Pres.
	Jan. 15, 1890.


DAVIS STAKE.
	The Quarterly Conference of the Relief So-
ciety of Davis Stake was held at Centerville,
Jan. 24, 1890.	
	Pres. Susan Grant presiding. Meeting
opened by singing, "The morning breaks, the
shadows flee." Prayer by Brother Randall,
singing, "Glorious things are sung of Zion."
Present on the stand were Pres. Susan Grant,
and her Counselors, Mrs. Mary Clark and
Lucinda Brown, also quite a number of the
Presidents of branches in the Stake. Minutes
of last Conference read and accepted.
	Pres. Grant was much disappointed that the
sisters who were to be here from the City had
not come. "We have visited some of the
branches and find a faithful few in each one--
"don't think the sisters realize the loss they
sustain by not attending their meetings. Am
pleased to have the brethren attend our
meetings, and know they take an interest in
them, they can correct us if we are wrong, we
do not want to overstep our bounds, we have
to be very prayerful to overcome temptation,
for the adversary is ever on the alert to lead
the people astray, may we be faithful to the
end."
	Coun. Mary Clark addressed the meeting,
We have met together to be blessed and com-
forted; I am pleased with the minutes of our
last conference, they are good. We are all
dependent children on our Heavenly Father,
we should live prayerful all the time, that we
may be able to attend to our many duties.
Spoke of the necessity of talking to our child-
ren and giving them good instructions that
they may not go astray as many are doing.
Where the Spirit of the Lord is there is free-
dom; we have glorious times in meeting to-
gether; it is our desire to do right, and let us
have faith in the ordinances when we have
sickness; if we live right the destroyer will
pass us by. May we spend our time in doing
good and building up the Kingdom.
	Coun. Lucinda Brown felt that the influ-
ence of the Spirit of the Lord was there; I de-
sire to do my part, and assist in the work of
this Kingdom. I love to attend my meetings
and am surprised that the sisters do not attend
their meetings better. We should meet to-
gether often for when the sisters get up and
bear their testimonies it strengthens them and
they feel more united. Spoke of the hardships
we have to pass through. It is necessary for
us to live right from day to day. I desire to
be one of the faithful Saints, and to put my
trust in the Lord; my desire is to live and do
good.
	Sisters Jane Holt and E. Barkdall made
very instructive remarks, and bore faithful
testimonies to the truth of this work.
	Pres. Grant felt that we had been blessed
with the Spirit of the Lord; would say a few
words in regard to our meeting this afternoon.
When I last saw Sister E. B. Wells she thought
it was necessary for us to organize a W. S. A.,
thought we could attend to it this afternoon, but
as the sisters from the city have not come, we
we will defer that and adjourn our meeting
until 2 p.m." Singing, "How beauteous are
thy feet." Benediction by Pres. W. R Smith.
	Afternoon services commenced by singing,
"Let Zion in her beauty rise." Prayer by
Brother Nathan Porter. Singing, "I saw a
mighty angel fly."
	Pres. Jane Muir of West Bountiful, Mrs.
Boynton of Kaysville, and Pres. Lucina
Sessions of East Bountiful, represented the
Relief Society in their respective wards, and
bore a faithful testimony to this work.
	Brother Nathan Porter then addressed the
meeting. Said it would be very unbecoming
in me to refuse to bear my testimony, but I
feel timid; I don't know as this timidity will
ever leave us. Pres. Young said he never got
over it. Now why is it? It is because we

[Column 2]
come in contact with the divine, and it makes
us feel weak. When we speak by way of ad-
monition we admonish ourselves. When we
have the Spirit of the Lord we can speak with
ease, but when the Spirit is taken from us we
feel barren. I cannot edify my sisters without
the Spirit of the Lord. Many have taken the
glory on themselves and have fallen. You
may criticise me as much as you like, but don't 
criticise the truth that I tell you. We could
have the gifts of the gospel now as much as
we ever did if we sought for them. I wish to
take this opportunity to ask the aid of my
sisters in the Sunday School; you can do it by
teaching your children to be orderly and
obedient at home; what they are allowed to do
at home, they think they can do anywhere
else. The family organization is the founda-
tion of all others. This society is a great help;
it is the head of all societies. May the Lord
bless you and all of us to the end.
	Brother Ianthus Barlow followed. I cannot
say anything to benefit you without the Spirit
of the Lord. I think Joseph gave this society
the right name; they can relieve the poor, and
there are many ways they can do good. It is
as Brother Porter said about the children; they
will remember what their parents teach them;
if they are wayward they will remember what
mother taught them and come back. I ask
the Lord to help us to serve Him aright. Now
sisters may you be blessed as a band of sisters,
and with the Spirit of the Lord. 
	Brother John Pool next addressed the meet-
ing. I have been very much edified in what I
have heard; it has brought many reflections to
my mind There is one thing noticeable in
reading history; mothers have formed the
minds of the children. Those who love virtue
despise the society of the corrupt, and will not
remain in their presence. We make impres-
sions on our children before they are born.
You sisters are holding the destiny of children
and preparing them to receive the priesthood.
Your influence is far greater than the father.
Cultivate the spirit of peace and quietness with
your children. I say unto you sisters go on,
and may the blessing of God attend you in
your efforts.
	Sister Lucy Clark, Sister Hatch, Counselors
Brown and Clark each made a few remarks,
bearing testimony to the truth of what had
been said.
	Pres. Grant made closing remarks. Confer-
ence adjourned for three months,  to meet at
Farmington. Singing, "Children of Zion,
awake from your sadness." Benediction by
Brother Pool. 
SUSAN GRANT, Pres.,
PHEBE G. SESSIONS, Sec.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


UTAH W. S. A.
By-laws and Regulations.
ARTICLE I.
This Association shall be called the Woman
Suffrage Association of Utah.
 ARTICLE II.
The object of the Association shall be to
work for the enfranchisement of all women,
without regard to party, sect, or creed, and to
take such steps from time to time as shall seem
to be wise and expedient for the political ad-
vancement of the women of this Territory.
ARTICLE III.
The officers of this Association shall be a
President, three Vice-Presidents, a Secretary,
Assistant Secretary, Corresponding Secretary
and Treasurer, with an Executive Commtttee
of not less than five, who shall hold their re-
spective offices one year, unless sooner removed
for cause.
ARTICLE IV.
All persons wishing to become members of
this Assocaition must pay an initiation fee of
50 cents annually, and must give or send their
names with the money to the Secretary, who
will present them in the order of business to
the next regular meetiug for admission.
ARTICLE V.
The officers of this Association, with the
Executive Committee, shall have power to
change or amend the By-Laws and Regula-
tions at any Executive session, and shall then
submit them to the regular meeting, where
they may be adopted by a majority vote.
ARTICLE VI.
The Executive Committee shall devise plans
of work suited to the development and progress
of the members of the Association, and co-
operate together with the members in encour-
aging young people to speak, write essays, and
discuss questions upon political matters and
civil government, and such other subjects as
relate thereto; and invite those not already in-
terested in suffrage to join, and encourage them
to become acquainted with the objects of the
organization.
ARTICLE VII.
The names of delegates to the Annual Con-
vention of the N. W. S. A. at Washington
shall be presented and voted upon at the an-
nual meetiug of the Association, previous to
said Convention, or a special meeting called
for the purpose. The Credentials of the dele-
gates shall be prepared by the Executive Com-
mittee and properly signed by the Officers of
the Association.
ARTICLE VIII.
All official papers and documents shall be
signed by the President and Secretary, or, in
the absence of the President, the Vice-President
next in order, and all official correspondence
must be signed by the Chairman of the Execu-
tive Committee or the President, and the Cor-
responding Secretary.
ARTICLE IX.
Regular meetings of this Association shall
be held once a month, and such business trans-
acted as shall be brought to the attention or
the meeting by the Executive Committee of
the Secretary, or other officers, after which
miscellaneous business or discussion will be in
order.
ARTICLE X.
A punctual attendance of the members is
particularly requested, in order to further the
interests of the whole, and to promote harmony
in all plans and methods of organized work.
ARTICLE XI.
All local suffrage associations that may be
organized throughout the Territory, by adopt-
ing these rules, or similar ones, and the Con- 
stitution of the National-American Woman
Suffrage Association, and paying such a per-
centage as shall be agreed upon, shall be con-
sidered auxiliaries, and their representatives or
delegates will be expected to attend a Terri-
torial Suffrage Convention, should one be
called, and entitled to the priviliges pertaining
thereto.


IMPORTENT ITEMS.
	"While four great States just admitted to the
Union have freely discussed woman's right of
suffrage in their conventions, they have all
failed to incorporate it in their constitutions.
Nevertheless, the steps of progress already
achieved should encourage the timid and stimu-
late the brave to renewed efforts. The con-
cessions made in the world of work, the trades
and professions; in the department of educa-
tion opening colleges and universities; in the
civil status of woman, securing to wives their
rights of property and many other individual
responsibilities denied under the old common
law; school suffrage in sixteen States, muni-
cipal suffrage in Kansas, and, best of all, full
suffrage in Wyoming Territory, where, after
twenty years’ experience, equal franchise has


just been submitted to both men and women,
and has been incorporated in the new Consti-
tution by a vote of eight to one.
	This is pre-eminently a time when woman’s
co-operation is needed in the great work of
government. Statesmen are mourning over
the corruption in politics, in the legislative, ex-
ecutive and even judicial departments;
prophets are warning us of coming dangers;
philosophers tell us that the problems of civi-
lization are too complicated for man to solve
them, unaided, that his brain is already over-
weighted and that some new force must be
summoned to his assistance. Where shall we
look for this moral power that will bring order
out cf chaos, harmony out of discord, peace
out of war, but in the education and elevation
of women?”


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


OBITUARIES.
Died - at Burrville, Sevier Co., Utah, on Friday, Jan.
17, 1890, Delia Hancock. born at Payson, Nov. 6 1880.
RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.
Whereas—It has pleased an all-wise Providence to take
from our midst one of our dear pupils, we, the undersigned,
her teachers, with all her school-mates and friends deeply
mourn the loss of the lovely blossom that has withered
and died in the springtime of her life. Delia has proven
herself an industrious and obedient student, and an attentive
member of the Primary Association. She has now gone to 
the beautiful mansions above to assist in the Primary there
and join in singing anthems of praise to the Great God 
who doeth all things well.
Resolved—That we, as teachers spare no pains, or
energy, in teaching the children to follow in the exemplary
footsteps of the deceased, that they may meet her "on the
other side," in all her glory and splendor.
Resolved—That a copy of these resolutions be sent to
the parents of the deceased; also that a copy be sent to
the Advocate, and one to the Women's Exponent for
publications.
D.P. WHITEHEAD,
LAURA WATERS,
LOUISE KELLER
Committee
In affectionate remembrance of Lena Favorette Grow
beloved daughter of John W. and Catharine Grow. Also
grandaughter of Mr. Henry Grow of Salt Lake City. Born
Sep. 1st 1871. Died Jan. 9th 1890. Being 18 years of
age, whose death was very sudden of typhoid fever. She
was enjoying herself with her friends through the holidays.
Favorette has always been a most dutiful child to her
parents, whose counsel she always sought. When our
Primary was first organized she was always on the lead.
Her little essays and parts that she took, gladdened the
hearts of true Latter-day Saints, When she was 11 or 12
years of age, she made a pretty speech at the 24th of July
in behalf of the Primary before a large audience. So she 
worked onward and upward until she reached the Young
Ladies Association. There she was appreciated for she
was always at the post of duty. Her last testimony to the
Young Ladies was very impressive at the time but we little
thought it was the last. She manifested a spirit of resignation
to the will of the Lord in life or death. Ever ready to 
sacrifice her own feelings to assist her dear mother to raise
her many little brothers and sisters, and begged them in
her last moments not to grieve for her, for she felt she was
passing from death unto life, and called them all around
to shake hands and say good-bye for a short season when
all this sorrow will be over.
And tho' Favorette has left us,
And her "loss we deeply feel"
Still we know God hath bereft us,
And He "can all our sorrows heal."
EMMA BURROWS,
CARRIE RENGSTRUM,
ELLA MCKAY,
Committee.
Died—On Jan. 2, 1890, at Heber, Utah, Anne Giles,
the beloved wife of Wm. M. Giles, and daughter of John
M. and Ann Murdock, aged 35 years.
Her sudden death has cast a gloom over her family and
friends, for she was truly loved by all who knew her, her
amiable disposition and benevolent actions having won for
her the esteem and respect of all. She was the mother of 
eleven children, ten of whom are living; was a useful


member of the Relief Society and a firm and faithful Latter-
day Saint.
	The funeral services were held in the Stake House on the
4th inst., and although it was a very cold and stormy day,
there was quite a large gathering attended the funeral
anxious to pay their respects to one so loved and good. It
was a sorrowful sight to see her ten children left without a
mother and her husband without a helpmate, but we must
all submit.
		Death comes and steals away its prey,
			And we can’t stay its mighty power,
		The summons we must all obey.
			At midnight, or at noonday hour.
								CORRESPONDENT.


TICKETS
ON SALE
TO ALL﻿
PRINCIPAL POINTS
EAST, WEST,
NORTH and SOUTH
–––AT–––
UNION TICKET OFFICE,
Main Street, Salt Lake City.
J. V. PARKER,
Asst. Genl. Pass. Agt.
R.K. THOMAS
26,28,30 and 32 East 1st South St,
SALT LAKE CITY.
The Leading Retail
Cash House.
R.K. THOMAS

Special to the Ladies.
AT TEASDEL'S
Will be found the latest styles and productions
in
LACES, RUCHES, EMBROIDERIES,
FANS, GLOVES, PARASOLS,
RIBBONS, COLLARS, TIES
And an elegant assortment of
DRY GOODS.
Special department for Ladies' Misses’ and In-
fant’s Shoes.
112, 114, 116, 118 East Temple Street
DAVID JAMES & CO.
TINNERS GAS,WATER & STEAM FITTERS
Agent for RUMSEY'S celebrated LIFTand FORCE
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from
the country promptly responded to
Address. DAVID JAMES. Box 306. SALT LAKE CITY.

$5000.00 IN PRIZES
GIVEN AWAY
BY THE
SALT LAKE HERALD,
To Subscribers of the
SEMI-WEEKLY ISSUE.
The Semi-Weekly Herald is now the largest, brightest
and most enterprising paper published in Utah. It
consists of 8 pages, and is shortly to be re-enlarged. The
Herald publishes the most standard current stories by
special arrangement with the authors; containing many
illustrated features; has the exclusive rights to Bill
Nye’s letters; maintains a regular telegraphic corres-
pondent in Washington, and receives weekly letters
from the celebrated correspondent Frank G. Carpenter.
Special attention is paid to market reports and agri-
cultural news; and a prominent feature will be made of
religious news, the tabernacle services being regularly
reported, while prominent sermons of the leading
church authorities are given in full. In politics, The
Herald stands as it has ever stood, the firm and un-
deviating champion of the rights of the people of Utah.
---------------
The Premium Distribution for 1890
Will be on a grander scale than ever before,
FIFTEEN HUNDRED PRIZES
Aggreating in value over $5000.00,
Being distributed among all subscribers to the Semi-
Weekly early in April.
Prize No. 1 is an upright Fischer piano, worth
	$500 cash.	
Prize No. 2 is a thoroughbred Holstein bull,
	worth $200.
Prize No. 3 is a Bain wagon, worth $175.
Prize No. 4 is a lot in Garden City, worth $150.
Prize No. 5 is a yearling heifer, worth $125.
Prize No. 6 is a purse of $100 in gold, and in
	the list are several hundred dollars in gold
	in smaller purses, while included in the
	1500 prizes are sewing machines, mowers,
	reapers, rifles, photos, steel engravings,
	encyclopedias, toilet sets, fruit trees, shade
	trees, dishes, stoves, books, etc., 
FIFTEEN HUNDRED IN ALL!
Which will be distributed among all who
subscribe for
THE SEMI-WEEKLY HERALD.
Price $3.00 per year..
Send for a descriptive catalogue free.
Address
THE HERALD Co., SALT LAKE.
Officers:
John T. Caine, President,
Heber J. Grant, Vice-President.
Horace G. Whitney, Business Manager.
Directors:
Francis Armstrong,
W. W. Riter,
Junius F. Wells,
Richard W. Young,
Chas. S. Burton,
Elias A. Smith.
W. H. Rowe,
S. P. Teasdel,
Heber M. Wells,
E. G. Woolley
JAS. Sharp


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
			The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.
