VOL. 18.		SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, MAY 15, 1890.		NO. 24.


CONTENTS.
	Hephzibah. Foreign Correspondence,—Lucy
M. King. Wedding Anniversary. Women Work-
ers,—J. J. Suffrage Meetings,—M. A. Y. Green-
halgh. Hawaiian Sun Myth. The Poet's Vision
and Philospher's Law,—A. B. Curtis. Miscel-
laneous. Notes and News,
	Editorial—Volume 18-19. More Anti-Mor-
mon Legislation. Birthday Celebration. Death
of Mrs. Harriet A. Snow. Forty Years Among
the Indians. An Interesting Letter,—A. M.
Wheldon. A Tribute May First,—M. O. Kelting.
	Poetry:—Dearest Write Me a Letter,—Lucy.
Changes,—Lula. May Songs.—E. B. W.


FOR THE EXPONENT:
	DEAREST WRITE ME A LETTER.

	My dearest, do write me a letter,
		To comfort my heart and console,
	The joy it would bring would be greater,
		Than the wealth of silver or gold.
	Do please, ma chere, write me a letter!
		If only a small sprinkling of news,
	From most any subject or matter,
		That will help to excite or amuse.
	Tell me of our friend, the Esquire,
		And of anything else, you may choose;
	Some items of flood and of fire,
		Grant this favor, do not refuse!
	Write of dear ones;—of home, and of neighbor,
		Of their doings of good and of ill,
	And touch on the subject of labor,
		There is always a way, with a will.
	Give some of your views of the questton,
		On religion,—politics,—trade—
	Of the newest, or latest invention,
		Towards the World's Great Fair and parade
	When Suffrage will be universal,—
		And women then rightfully crowned,
	Will join in the world's grand rehearsal.
		That will bring the Millennial round.
	Now pray let the silence be broken,
		My entreaties no longer withstand,
	But send forth the much wished-for token,
		From the pen of thine own gifted hand.
				LUCY.


CHANGES.

TO MY BROTHER E. F. G. JULY, 1873.

	How we sported in the sunshine,
		How we laughed amid the storm,
	As I often closely nestled
		In your bosom safe and warm.
	You were young and I was little,
		I, your "baby sister," "pet;"
	You my brave, strong, elder brother,
		Dear, good heart, I love you yet.

	Oft I stood, a merry pleader,
		Oft you yielded to me—yes—
	Let me trace those happy memories,
		And I thiuk you will confess,
	Though you were so much my senior,
		Long our parent's only son,
	If I mostly gained my own way,
		'Twas through patience kindly won.

	Beauteous, blissful, sunny childhood,
		Peerless, priceless, joyous youth!
	Pure, unburdened, simple pleasures,
		Fraught with trust and love and truth.
	Wherefore do ye fade and vanish,
		Ere we learn to prize your worth?
	Ah! you're crowded out by changes—
		New delights, new loves find birth.


I have lost that loved position,
	And another form may rest
Loving, trusting, fond and tender,
	In your arms and on your breast.
But for me another, also,
	Lives and labors, brave aud true;
So I still am blest and happy,
	Happier e'en than then—are you?
			LULA.


[Column 1]

HEPHZIBAH.
XXI.

Misfortunes fall upon the brave and true,
	We know not how to solve the mystery;
'Tis well the future's hidden from our view,—
	Whereon is written our life's history.

	The Harvey's had arrived in Nauvoo when
great events were pending, the tranquility of
the city was much disturbed, the Prophet was
being threatened, and traitors were planning
destruction to the work of the Lord. William
Law who had been Joseph's counselor and
intimate friend had just been excommunicated
from the Church,and was the leader of a band
of wicked man who had also been Latter-day
Saints, but were now arrayed against the
Prophet and his followers.
	A newspaper was about being started by Apos-
tates to be called the "The Nauvoo Expositor"
in which all kinds of evil reports concerning
the people of Nauvoo and vicinity
would be circulated throughout the state
of Illinois arousing the indignation of the
people, and causing mobbings etc. which com-
mencing on the outskirts soon caused the people
in Nauvoo to feel that even there with a City
Charter and such protection as the law afforded
they were insecure.
	Mr. and Mrs. Harvey were filled with fear
and dismay and would not remain in Nauvoo.
	It was a time of great doubt with some of 
the half-hearted people, and the Harvey's were
afraid of losing their worldly possessions, and
finally decided to buy a farm at Laharpe
about twenty miles out from the city.
	Mrs. Harvey senior knew very well that
Hepsie would not go with them willingly for she
had heard her express herself so strongly in her
belief in the divinity of the work: one day while
making some preparations for removal Mrs.
Harvey inquired in this way "Hepsie are you
going with us out to the farm and help Harold
get a start in the world I want to get him out of
Nauvoo he's to much carried away now with
the parading and mustering of the Nauvoo
legion, standing guard at night and sleeping in
Joseph's barn when off duty. He shan't have
any of our means to waste in this manner I can
tell ye?"
	Hepsie said nothing she had learned like
Mr. Harvey that silence was best especially
if she intended to carry her point in the end
which she certainly did.
	Her silence was construed to stubbornness
and Mrs. Harvey added, "you have nothing
much of your own but what you have I shall
pack up with our things for you'll have to go
there's no other way."
	As usual when disagreeable subjects were
broached Hepsie rushed up stairs to give vent
to her grief in tears and prayers as she in-
variably did when very unhappy and now she
was full almost to bursting. She could scarcely
have answered Mrs. H.—had she tried; while
she was weeping and sobbing she heard Harold

[Column 2]

come in, she could hear his mother in her
loudest tones questioning him about going,
"And so my boy you persist in remaining in
Nauvoo whatever comes, well you will have
to stay alone, I shall take Hepsie she can't
be left alone at night, while your off on duty
as you call it, and besides she can't do any-
thing any more than a doll. I wish you
would be reasonable and come, but I know
you'll be glad to bye and bye for the worst
hasn't come yet."
	He laughed merrily and only answered her,
"well mother we shall see," and bounded up
stairs finding Hepsie in a flood of tears.
"What's the matter little one?" said he in a
voice so cheery as to make all around seem as
though a flood of sunlight broke in suddenly,
what makes you fret so much?" and he added
"you are so changed."
	"Your mother says we shall go with her to
Laharpe and leave this beautiful city where I
expected to be so happy, but I will not go I'll
give up everything first" "Everything" Harold
said, "yes Harold everything but you and my
religion." You may be called upon to do that if
you remain firm and steadfast; but never mind
cheer up, mother has to scold and use a little
authority now and then its her nature,she means
all right we'll get the best of her yet." "Come
out a little while for a walk, it will do you good,
and cheer your spirits wonderfully you get so
gloomy shut up here and I'm always away."
	They went out to gether the day was a
charming one in early June, they chose the
most beautiful paths near the river and they
conversed together more seriously upon the
principles of truth than they had ever done
before.
	While Harold had been associated with
members of the Nauvoo legion, some of them
veterans in the cause,and all staunch Latter-day
Saints, he had learned more concerning the
Gospel than ever before, and he spoke to his
wife of these things, of the principles of
eternal mariage by which husband and wife
could be joined in the holy bond of matrimony
not only for this life but for eternity to come,
forever and forever. They had wandered away
some distance from home and were in a beauti-
ful shady, grassy picturesque place near the
river; steamboats were plying up and down and
Hepsie's thoughts turned backward to the sea,
and her presentiments when a child at the sea-
shore;-but Harold could always drive away
melancholy, he was so buoyant and hopeful,
it was almost impossible to be even pensive in
his presence, and yet he was poetical; he re-
peated stanza after stanza to Hepsie during
that walk which was one of the red letter days
to her: he assured her that as soon as peace
prevailed in the city again and he could speak
to the Prophet, they would have a marriage
ceremony performed by the Prophet himself
which would unite them more closely together
and hereafter nothing could ever separate
them. They vowed eternal constancy then
and there and yet in her heart of hearts
Hepsie had those strange misgivings that had
haunted her since her first acquaintance with
Harold.
	"Little one why are you so pensive, I know
you are not happy a moment when I'm away
but only think how noble it is "to be on duty,"
and you must think of my being one to
protect our great leader and General as well as
Prophet seer and revelator." Then they talked
of Joseph his wonderful power, his magnfi-


[Column 1]

cent appearance mounted on his white horse,
giving orders to the men.
	And so they chatted until the evening shades
began to gather and they were about to turn
their steps homeward when Harold's poetic
nature burst forth in the song,

	"We parted in silence, we parted at night,
		On the banks of that lonely river;
	Where the moonbeams shed their silvery light,
		We met—and we parted forever!
	And the cold pale moon, and the stars above"
		Told many a touching story
	Of friends long passed to the kingdom of rest
		Where the soul wears its mantle of glory.

	"We parted in silence our cheeks were wet
		With the tears that were past controling
	We vowed we would never, no, never forget
		And those vows at the time were consoling.
	But the lips that echoed that vow of mine
		Are as cold as that lonely river
	And that sparkling eye, the spirits shrine,
		Has shrouded its fire forever."

	"And now on the midnight sky I look,
		And my heart grows full to weeping;
	Each star to me is a sealed book,
		Some tale of that loved one keeping.
	We parted in silence,—we parted in tears,
		On the banks of that lonely river;
	But the odor and bloom of those by-gone years
		Shall hang round its waters forever."

	The last words of the song died away upon
his lips, the voice was scarcely audible, and
the young wife was again in tears; "Let us
go home Hepsie, I ought not to have sung
that song, it always impresses me with sad
forebodings, but then I never yield to super-
stitions of any kind, we shall never be parted,
never! I pledge myself anew to you to-day,
for time and all eternity. You know I never
loved before, and it was love at first sight
with me, and you know too, that I have never
felt so sure of your love, never could quite
fathom it." "That's because its too deep
Harold! And girls are taught to hide their
love, to be undemonstrative." "Hepsie you
are evasive you do not say to me frankly,
'Harold I love you better than all else in the
world!" "But Harold, you forget I have
given up 'all else' as you say for you, and you
are all I have." "Is it not enough? Does
not every wife leave her home and friends for
her husband?" "Then you do not think I
have made a sacrifice Harold?" "Well in
one sense yes! But Hepsie there will be other
opportunities for you, and greater ones than
you would have had in a little New England
village, Mormonism opens a wide field for in-
tellectual attainments, only "we have fallen
upon troublous times" just now. I must stand
guard again to night and you will be alone up
stairs, but my heart is always with you."
This was the substance of the conversation
though much was said of their present and
future life; after their return home, and sup-
per over, Harold bade his wife "good night,"
and she was left alone. She ever remembered
that night and in after years the memory of
promises made would flash before her vivid
imagination, waking thoughts of that which
might have been, had fortune smiled upon her
youthful days, but it was not so.
	We are not giving a history, only giving
some incidents in the life of Hephzibah, and
at this time she was sorely troubled. Yet her
faith grew stronger every day in the Prophet
Joseph Smith and his divine mission and
Harold's too seemed firmer, but his mother
was now a bitter apostate; and day and night
murmured against the prophet and those
who associated with him; and repeated all the
evil reports and calumnies that were afloat.
	Since Hepsie came to Nauvoo she had been
to visit some of the company who had left the
village of B. in 1842 and among others the
young people who had married rather hastily

[Column 2]

just before coming away. She did not find
them very congenial society especially the two
young college graduates and their wives. The
eldest one whom she had ardently hoped would
have married Lucy Reynolds, informed her
that he was soon going back East with his wife
and baby; and she felt that Lucy had been
spared this sorrow at least, better be single
after a broken engagement, than have an apos-
tate husband. The other brother was not much
better, he thought of going back, to retutn
again when things had quieted down.
	Hepsie wrote to Lucy and told her of her
visit, and that the two Mr. W's. would return
home or settle somewhere in the East and pos-
sibly use an influence against the Gospel, and
warned her to beware, for they would bring
evil and false reports; they had become em-
bittered and were working against the Saints.
	Those who are familiar with the events that
took place about that time are aware how one
unpleasant occurrence followed another until
the crisis came. Hepsie was near the Main
street of the city and heard much that was
going on and she was unaccustomed to any
excitement of this nature, away from her
mother,and her husband in the midst of danger
as it seemed te her, no wonder if her whole
nervous system was shaken to its center.
There was one good sister, who sometimes
comforted her with words of faith and hope,
and whenever Harold could come home for a
few minutes she felt re-assured. Hepsie never
forgot the time the Nauvoo Expositor was
destroyed; and the feeling that prevailed among
the people.

	The facts in this case are well known to the
Saints, and we only speak of it in its effect
on Hepsie. The depression of spirits she
suffered about this time was almost beyond
endurance, she was ill in body and mind,
and yet her faith increased. She could not
but feel that a special providence was over
her; she saw very little of Harold, but
realized he was in the performance of what he
thought duty, and if she was not reconciled
to his absence, she tried to bear it courageously. 
	Mrs. Harvey had things packed up to move
away, but halted between going and staying,
wondering in which most danger was likely to
be involved. She upbraided Hepsie daily, tell-
ing her Harold would not be so headstrong in
Mormonism if it were not for her, and Hepsie
when she felt her loneliness most deeply was
rather proud of Harold's nobility in maintain-
ing his place among the young men, who were
ready to brave any danger in case of emer-
gency.
	Joseph's going to Carthage to deliver him-
self up with the others who were accused
spread dismay and consternation through the
City of Nauvoo, the people were almost wild,
hundreds yes, thousands would gladly have
gone in his stead; they mourned even then and
when the dreadful news of the massacre came
it was as if a thunderbolt had fallen in the
midst of the City, and a dark cloud hung like
a sable pall over all, that none seemed able to
pierce. The beautiful City was deluged in
tears as it were, mourning and lamentation on
every hand. Those who were there can never
forget the dreadful scenes, and it is impossible
to describe the occurrences so as to convey a
definite idea of the tragedy, to those who view
it from a distance in a pen picture.
	The people were advised to be calm, to keep
the peace and trust to the law to avenge their
wrongs, and there was less excitement than
there was agonizing sorrow. Bowed down with
grief at the cruel martyrdom of their prophet
and patriarch the Saints awaited the return of
the Apostles who were away from home at the
time with anxious expectancy. The only
Apostle there except John Taylor, who lay
wounded and helpless was Willard Richards,

[Column 3]

and the Saints listened to his advice and to
that of others who had been Joseph's staunch
friends. Shortly after the martyrdom the
Harveys left Nauvoo, but Hepsie and Harold
refused to go, notwithstanding threats and en-
treaties at the last moment from Mrs. Harvey.
They were really left almost destitute, for Mrs.
H. had carried out her intention of taking with
her, what Hepsie had brought from her own
home, at the time of her marriage. Poor
Hepsie however felt relieved when they were
gone and almost for the first time since leaving
home breathed freely. Harold was in the
gayest of spirits, he was young and strong,
and his father had given him some money, unbe-
known to his mother. They commenced
housekeeping on a very small scale, most of the
things except furniture being lent them, by a
woman Hepsie had formerly known, who lived
in an adjacent village, but was a member of
the same branch of the Church; and when
the Harveys went away she came a friend
indeed and offered them assistance, which
circumstances almost compelled them to accept.
	Harold put the money he had into a com-
mission business with two other young men
on Main Street, and he had every hope of
success in the enterprise. Hepsie had many
misgivings and presentiments, she had no idea
what kind of young men they were except that
Harold never mentioned them or wanted her
to see them. But she was now really ill, they
lived near the river bank and Hepsie began to
have the ague which more than ever increased
their troubles and embarrassments. They
were obliged to have help in the house
and week after week the poor little wife seemed
to grow weaker, paler and more helpless, she
scarcely knew when Harold came or went. He
was affectionate, tender and gentle, he used to
lift her up in his strong arms, and treat  her
as one would a child. Meantime messages
came from Laharpe begging them to leave
Nauvoo and come there, but even had Harold
wished to go, Hepsie was too ill to be moved.
	Letters came occasionally from New Eng-
land, Lucy Reynold's engagement was an-
nounced, and finally the news of her marriage
to a good young man, a member of the Church,
who had come up from New Haven to B. on
business, and fallen in love with Miss
Reynolds. Hepsie's mother wrote that she
had been obliged to put off coming to Nauvoo
in the fall as she had expected, on account of
some technicality in the law that had been
overlooked regarding the sale of the property.
Hepsie grieved for her mother, it was a great
disappointment, but she was patient and hope-
ful through all, looking back upon it after-
wards she often marveled that she survived so
many nervous shocks.
	One beautiful Sabbath morning a son was
born in that lowly home, such a wee little
thing, and the child-mother was too ill to think
at first, but bye and bye she realized that the
crisis was past, which she had been looking
forward too, and she was almost surprised to
find she was still living and Harold was there;
his the only face she recognized amongst them
all, strangers were around her bed, and she
knew by the pitying accents, and tones of
sympathy, that she had been down almost
into the valley of the shadow of death.
	Baby had soft wavy brown hair and such
lovely eyes, but he was sick too, and she
worried about him, and tried very hard to help
a little with him, but it was very little she
could do, she thought more about her mother
now, but it was all of no avail, she realized in
its fulness, what it meant to be a stranger, and
yet friends were kind. She named baby herself,
and she enjoyed having him with her, but it
was not long, for on another lovely Sabbath
morning five weeks from the day he was born
he passed peacefully away from earth, and
those who loved him so devotedly.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


MAY SONGS.

The hills are gay, with flow'rs of May;
And all around, there doth abound
	The joyous notes of melody,
	Swelling in tuneful harmony;
The songs we sing, the sweets we bring,
Of flow'r and vine and garlands twine,—
	To crown our floral queen to-day,
	Our royal queen of festive May.

With roses fair, we'll wreathe her hair,
And lilies sweet, lay at her feet,
	And in the air of jocund May,
	Pour forth a gladsome roundelay,
To welcome e'en, our fairy queen,
With song-birds voice, the hills rejoice,
	Joining in chorus full and gay,
	To crown our queen in happy May.

With music glad, none need be sad,
For now we bring, the buds of Spring;
	Let joy and pleasure fill each heart,
	And innocence and grace impart,
To make this day our life portray,
An offering free of purity,
	And crown our chosen queen to-day,
	With love's sweet songs in blooming May.

We come from the hill-tops far away,
Tripping along, so blithe, and so gay;
The fairest flow'rs and sweets we bring;
With music we make the wild-woods ring,—
	To welcome the maiden May;
	For we crown our queen to-day,
The maids of honor her throne surround 
And cast their garlands upon the ground.

We search for bloom where the fairies dwell,
We hunt for buds in the shady dell;
Roses and lilies in wreaths we twine
Woven from every leaf and vine,
	To adorn the queen of May,
	Whose sceptre we own to day;
And the sweetest notes for her we sing
And our purest offerings we bring.

The maids who come from the sunny hills,
Have bathed in the sparkling, bubbling rills,
Have revel'd in loveliness, and light,
and quaff'd the nectar of dewy night;
	They have come to crown queen May,
	In their own sweet, graceful way,
The maids of beauty, lift up their voice
For the queen of May, they made their choice.

		E. B. W.
May 10, 1890.


FOREIGN CORRESPONDENCE.

EDITOR WOMEN'S EXPONENT:
	With pleasure I make a short report of the
labors and progress of the Relief Society of
the Hawaiian Mission of which a general
conference of all the branches was held April
5, at this place; out of the thirty-six branches
now organized only three were not reported in
person; indeed the zeal that was manifested by
many to come to the conference and represent
properly the Society of which they severally
form a part, that quite a number walked all
the way from Honolulu to Laie a distance of
32 miles; one woman carrying a babe of two
months old, a great part of the distance in her
arms. Another sister whose feet were so sore
having walked the whole distance, that it was
with difficulty that she could hobble up to the
pulpit to represent the Society which she pre-
sided over.
	The pride, the joy, and satisfaction coupled
with the out-pouring of the holy-spirit upon
the feeble efforts of our Hawaiian sisters to
do their part toward building up and estab-
lishing the kingdom of God on the-earth, but
adds another testimony that God is no re-
spector of persons, but blesses all without re-
gard to race, or color, who faithfully serve and


obey Him.—Three new branches were or-
ganized during this term. We now have a
membership of 748 showing an increase of
sixty-one members during the last six months
ending March 31st. The Relief Society here
is doing what the Society is doing at home,
namely relieving the poor, caring for the sick,
giving the poor a decent and respectable burial
assisting the traveling Elders, assisting to build
meeting houses, preaching the Gospel &c. &c.
Many have been converted by the sisters
traveling from house to house bearing testi-
mony and preaching the Gospel to them.
	Nearly all the branches have working meet-
ings established which forms a great factor in
obtaining means for the prosecution of their
labors. Some of their quilts are very nice and
are sought after by the well to do people pay-
ing for some as high as twenty dollars, for one
quilt. In writing about my Hawaiian sisters
I have only mentioned their acts of commenda-
tion and praise, there are two sides to a picture,
every picture has its dark side, it is much
more pleasant to look upon the bright side
and will not the great dispenser of justice take
into consideration the circumstances of all His
creatures with mercy, according to the ability
and comprehension of all His creatures. I
will close praying for the prosperity of Zion.
	Your sister in the new and everlasting cove-
nant.
		LUCY M. KING.
	Laie, Hawaiian, Islands, April 10th; 1890.


WEDDING ANNIVERSARY.

	Monday May 5, was the twenty-fourth anni-
versary of the marriage of Drs. M. B. and
Ellis R. Shipp. In the evening there was a
gathering of a few friends at their residence in
this City in honor of the happy occasion.
	The party convened in the same room where
so many years before they had begun their
wedded life.
	It was a kind of impromtu affair, and there-
fore there was only a few of the many friends,
who would otherwise have been invited to par-
ticipate in the enjoyment of the evening.
	Almost the entire evening was devoted to
music, Miss Eda Delean gave several pieces
of very difficult piano music in the manner of
a professional and was much applauded, she
also sang one or two songs very sweetly. Miss
Maude Pratt who has a full soprano voice, was
very obliging, and sang again and again, some
new pieces and other "dear old songs;" she
has an excellent voice and her singing shows
considerable cultivation. Mrs. Lizzie Felt a
favorite singer and who plays wonderfully
well on the guitar, gave some instrumental
pieces on the guitar and accompanied most of
the songs she sung also on the guitar. Her
voice is strong, full and sweet. Richard and
Bard Shipp rendered several pieces of instru-
mental music on guitar, flute, and mandolin, and
altogether it might almost be called "a musi-
cale."
	The company conversed freely, there were no
speeches or recitations, but refreshments were
daintily served with ice cream, lemonade, fruit
etc.
	It was not only the wedding day of the Drs.
but the birthday anniversary of Dr. M. B.
Shipp's father who has now reached the ad-
vanced age of eighty-two. The company was
composed mostly of old friends or more prop-
erly those who were intimately acquainted
with each other formerly, but who in these
busy days have little time for society. Mr.
and Mrs. Shipp were heartily congratulated on
having sailed safely so far over the sometimes
troublous sea of matrimony; they received
some valuable presents, souvenirs of this
pleasant mile-stone along life's journey. The
writer adds sincere congratulations to the two


Doctors and their family, and thanks for
a very pleasant evening spent among dear
friends and listening to sweet music.
		E. B. W.


WOMEN WORKERS.

	The question which is always asked, always
discussed in regard to women, and any field of
active labor in which they may desire to engage,
is, have they the physique for it? Will they
not break down under it? Does it not require
more strength than they possess? These  sym-
pathetic doubts are not expressed concerning
women who take in washing, who spend their
days in scrubbing abroad and their nights in
washing and ironing and cleaning at home,
but only when the labor competes with that of
men, in journalism for example, in medicine,
in farming, in general business, or in any
scientific pursuit.
	As long as there was a question of capacity.
that was discussed ad nauseam; now that this
has settled itself, and women are doing all
the time by the hundreds and thousands that
which it was said women could not do at all,
the old obstructive spirit appears in new guise,
and we are told that it is absurd for women to
enter upon this or that, with an organization
that is too delicate to bear continued strain.
That this kind of argument is not recognized
as arrant nonsense, is simply because some
women have allowed both physical and mental
faculties to grow so weak by want of use, that
they take their own condition as furnishing an
average, and believe it to be the normal state
of all women. If this were true, then it is
high time public opinion was aroused upon
this matter and poor women were protected and
saved for the sake of possible motherhood from
doing the drudgery of the world; from stand-
ing all day at the wash-tub, the ironing table,
from working side by side with men in the
fields, the factories, the workshop, doing as
much work at less price, and supplementing it
with as hard labor at home, while the man is
resting  or drinking up his own and the
woman's gains in a beershop.
	It is perhaps natural that men should use
every argument that presents itself against
possible encroachment on their  preserves.
But women had better inquire and find out
of what women have shown themselves capable
before deciding that women cannot do this
or that, and putting the obstacle of an adverse
opinion in the way of their advancement.
The actual truth is that women have more
continued resisting power, and more endurance
than men. They can do more kinds of work,
and keep at it longer than men. One of the
reasons is that they are more quiet, more
persistent, and do not throw away so much
nervous energy as men. There is nothing
women cannot do if they set themselves to
work to accomplish it. It is, perhaps,
fortunate for men that their desires have here-
tofore been so simple and modest in character.
With the experience of active paying work,
and the acquisition of power that it brings
the desire for appropration may come, here-
tofore a peculiarly masculine attribute, and
then—well, the experience of ancient Egypt
may be repeated in modern America.
		J. J.
The Woman's Cycle.


PUNDITA RAMABAI has started on a tour of
Hindoostan to appeal for funds in aid of her
school. She has been warmly received every
where, and at the close of a lecture which she
delivered at Hyderabad two thousand rupees
were subscribed among the audience. It is
noteworthy that a Mohammedan capital should
be among the foremost supporters of a purely
Hindu institution.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

	EMMELINE B. WELLS,	Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah. Terms:
one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months, 50 cts. No
reduction made for clubs. City papers delivered by mail,
extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space, one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal discount
to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, No. 25 E., South Temple Street, second
gate east of Deseret News Office. Business hours from 10 a.m
to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
		PUBLISHER WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
			SALT LAKE CITY. UTAH.

	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
Second Class Matter.

SALT LAKE CITY,	MAY 15, 1890.


VOLUME 18—19.

	The present number of the WOMAN'S EX-
PONENT completes the eighteenth volume and we
are sorry that the story of Hephzibah is not
finished, but we have only allowed a small portion
of the paper for its publication. However it will
be concluded very soon now, and it is to be hoped
that the subscription will not be decreased for
volume nineteen. We aim so far as practicable
to keep up with the news of woman's work and
mission in various directions, not apart from man
but as a helper and co-worker with man.
	The Relief Society Conferences general and
quarterly are found in the columns of the paper,
Primary Associations are represented therein and
woman's suffrage work finds sufficient prominence
in its pages. There is always space given to the
writings of our sisters old and young, and even
children whenever the articles are at all suitable,
as it has been the aim from the first issue to en-
courage home talent.
	In the Volumes of the EXPONENT may be found
biographical sketches of some of the leading wo-
men of Zion, Elizabeth Ann Whitney, Eliza R.
Snow Smith, Zina D. H. Young, Mary Isabella
Horne, Presendia L. Kimball, Mary Ann Young,
Sarah M. Kimball and others have and will ap-
pear from time to time. The EXPONENT aims to
record the lives and noble works of the women of
the Latter-day Saints. This is the class of wo-
men who are expected to sustain it by their in-
fluence and subscription. We earnestly hope all
local agents will see that the lists are filled for
volume nineteen which will probably be the best
ever issued. The price of the paper one dollar
per year ought to bring it within reach of all those
who have a desire to subscribe for it. We shall
be very glad to hear from the agents in the various
localities throughout the Stakes of Zion, and we
most earnestly hope that persistent efforts may
be made to sustain the paper, and also increase
its size and improve it, for it is the official
organ of the Relief Society and records all events
of importance in the history of the Women of
Zion.


[Column 1]

MORE ANTI-MORMON LEGISLATION.

	The bills introduced into the Congress of the
United States this year are the most extraordi-
nary in their character and bearing of any hereto-
fore formulated. The Baskin-Cullom bill to dis-
franchise all Mormons was so extreme that there
seemed a possibility that honest men would
oppose its passage, even though the Governor of
Utah and his colleagues favored it; it is apparent
to all that the whole matter is only a political
scheme to get possession of the Territory and
carry out the wishes of the minority, who have
come here with a little temporary, official authority

[Column 2]

under pretense of enforcing law and order—
where the best of order prevailed and laws were
honored. The Edmund's bill of 1882 was cruel
in itself when it was enforced, it sent hundreds of
men to prison, and broke up families, scattering
and dividing those who were bound together by
the ties of love and friendship, and these things
were done with the pretense that fifty millions of
people in the United States were opposed to
Mormonism, "it was a loathsome ulcer" etc., etc.
The Edmund's bill did not satisfy some of these
radical "regenerators" and so it was supplemented
by the Edmund's-Tucker bill and the Woman's
Industrial Home Association; and the Edmund's-
Tucker bill was enforced and the Judges of the
Courts interpreted law and measures according to
their ideas, and in the Supreme Court of the
United States some cases were argued and
decisions given; meantime the property of the
Church was seized upon and a receiver appointed,
so that between fines, imprisonments, costs of
court, lawyer's fees, and confiscation of property,
one would think the most bitter enemies of the
people might have been satisfied; but it was not
so, though almost all the political offices were
filled by men appointed and in most instances
non-residents, yet it was not severe enough. Men
who had come here without money or influence
 clamored for place and power and failing to get
all, resorted to such methods as would rob the
Mormon people of all rights of citizenship. The
bill known as the Baskin-Cullom bill wanted
Congress to disfranchise without distinction,
every man belonging to the Church of Jesus
Christ of Latter-day Saints, for no offence what-
ever, only a standing in the Church.
	This bill extreme as it was found its supporters,
but there were some honorable men, who did not
approve it as a whole, and probably lest that bill
should not be carried through a more indirect
method was concocted to bring about the same
result. The latest is the Thomas-Edmunds bill
which gives the real control of the Territory into
the hands of seven men, the Governor and his sec-
retary and the five Commissioners. The Mormons
the veritable founders of the Territory are to be
mere automatons to be pulled by their political
wires and kept in subjection to their arbitrary will
and authority if this bill passes.
	Whereas under the control of the People's
Party, the Territory prospered and taxes were
light, and the men who had helped to make the
country understood what was necessary for the
prosperity and enterprise of the whole people,—
now instead of carrying out the measures that
secured the rights of citizenship to all, a radical
change of everything is made and an entire new
system to take the place of that which has been
successfully tried. Whether either of these bills
will pass remains to be proven. The last named
bill has been referred to the Judiciary Committee
of the Senate of which Senator Edmunds is him-
self the Chairman—and therefore leaves him in
charge of his own bill.
	Congress has been doing a great deal during
the last few years, and spending a great deal of
time discussing and considering measures to
bring the Mormons to conform to the boasted
civilization of the nineteenth century while this
peculiar people have been pursuing the even tenor
of their way in thrift, enterprise and industry and
proclaiming at home and abroad those true prin-
ciples that lie at the foundation of both the
spiritual and temporal welfare of all mankind.
Obedience to the laws of the land has always
been taught by the "Mormon" people, they have
not been rebellious, but have yielded to authority
of those appointed to office, whether they con-
sidered them able and efficient for the positions
they were chosen to fill or not.
	The Latter-day Saints acknowledge the hand
of an over-ruling Providence and feel assured
that all things will work together for good. The

[Column 3]

Scripture says "He will make the wrath of man
to praise Him nad the remainder He will re-
strain" and we know His word cannot fail there-
fore there is no need to fear, but keep in the path
of duty, which is the path of safety.


BIRTHDAY CELEBRATION.

	Thursday May first was the seventieth anniver-
sary of the birth of Elder Edward Stevenson of
this City. The occasion was appropriately cele-
brated in the 14th Ward Assembly Rooms, which
were handsomely decorated and furnished with
luxurious easy chairs, sofas, tables etc., for the
evening's entertainment. A large and elegant
oil painting of the gentlemen in honor of whom the
party was given hung above the stand and above
were the figures May 1, 1820, and below 70—1890.
There were between two and three hundred guests
including his immediate family, relatives and
friends; there were many others that Brother and
Sister Stevenson would like to have entertained
but such very large parties are not generally as
enjoyable as where there are fewer in number
and the host and hostess can be sociable with
all.
	Brother Stevenson's daughter and husband re-
turned from New York City the same evening
after a long absence during which time the son-
in-law C. F. Wilcox had graduated from the
Medical College with honors a full fledged M. D.,
the return of the young Dr. and his wife added
much to the pleasure of the assembly.
	A programme had been prepared for the occa-
sion which was carried out in a very creditable
way, music, singing and recitations excellent;
there were also speeches from some of the
veterans present. Bishop Kesler, Bishop McRae,
and one or two others, then Elder Stevenson him-
self, in which he stated that he had been in the
Church from his childhood, and related some of
his peculiar experiences with the Prophet Joseph
and testified of his faith and so on. There were
three original poems read that were written pur-
posely to honor him, one by H. W. Naisbett, one
by Emily H. Woodmansee, and one by Mrs.
Lucy S. Clark of Farmington. They were all
very good. Sister Zina D. H. Young who had
known Brother Stevenson many years, was the
only lady speaker of the evening. She was ac-
companied there by her daughter Mrs. Zina Y.
Card who only just very recently arrived in the
City from Canada, where she has been residing
the past two or three years.
	After the programme was rendered and
speeches made, refreshments were served to all in
the Hall; it was quite an undertaking to wait
upon such a large number of guests, but the
young ladies, who had charge of this part of the
entertainment were thorough in performing their
part gracefully and well. The refreshments had
been daintly prepared, and consisted of sand-
wiches and salad, cakes of all kinds, ice cream,
candies, nuts, oranges and raisins and excellent
lemonade.
	The next in order was the presentation by
Elder H. P. Richards in an appropriate speech of
a few well chosen words, of a handsome gold-
headed cane from Brother and Sister Ezra T.
Clark of Farmington, and a luxurious and elegant
easy chair from his children who reside at Big
Cottonwood. Elder Stevenson responded in a
very happy manner and thanked the donors, and
informed them that he was still young, hale and
hearty, but perhaps ten years hence he might
need the cane and easy chair. He also expressed
himself to the assembled guests as pleased with the
honor shown him, and invited them in the most
hospitable and gracious terms to come and cele-
brate his next tenth anniversary, at which time it
was barely possible that he might need the chair
and the staff.
	An immense fruit cake was now placed upon


the table near the centre of the room; it was quite,
an elaborate [affair, frosted and ornamented and
on the top was] inscribed "E. Stevenson, May 1,
1820—1890. The cake was cut and liberally dis-
tributed [among the guests, almost every one
carrying away a piece of the birthday cake. It
was late when the company dispersed, and all
felt that it had been a very pleasant social affair.
The host and hostess managed the party in ex-
cellent taste, and it was in all respects a brilliant
success. We congratulate Brother and Sister
Stevenson on their good taste and ability to carry
out so large a party. Benediction was pro-
nounced by Elder H. P. Richards after which the
good nights were said and all went away feeling
that old ties of friendship had been renewed and
friends met friends socially without restraint or
embarrassment.
	We cordially extend through the columns of
the EXPONENT the most sincere congratulations
on having attained his seventieth year in the en-
joyment of such excellent health and spirits and
have no doubt that it is mainly due as he believes,
to his observance of the Word of Wisdom. His
health is unimpaired and his whole physique is as
perfect as that of a man of forty. May Brother
Stevenson continue to enjoy health, peace and
contentment is a most earnest prayer of the
writer, it was a time never to be forgotten by any
of those present.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


DEATH OF MRS. HARRIET A. SNOW.

	Sister Harriet A. Snow, of Brigham City, wife
of Apostle Lorenzo Snow, passed away from
earth on Monday May 12, at three o'clock a.m.,
after an illness of two or three weeks, having
suffered severely from paralysis. Sister Snow's
maiden name was Squires, and she was born in
Aurora, Geauga Co., Ohio, Sept. 13, 1819. Her
suffering for a few days previous to her demise
was very great, but she bore all with that patience
aud meekness that had characterized her whole
life. During the time of her illness she was often
administered to by the Elders and received great
relief; she was a woman of implicit faith in the
power of the priesthood.
	Her children were around her and every thing
was done that the most devoted affection could
suggest to alleviate pain and soothe her distress,
and comfort the last hours of her life. She was
one of whom it may be truly said, "well done
good and faithful servant enter thou into the joy
of the Lord."
	Sister. H. A. Snow was chosen to preside over
the Relief Society of Box Elder Stake, when the
organization was effected May 14, 1878. She has
been a very efficient and active presiding officer
and in her labors among the sisters in the several
branches, and in visiting them from time to time
she won their confidence, respect and love; al-
ways wise in counsel and vigilant in the welfare
of those over whom she bad the honor to pre-
side. She will be greatly missed in the organiza-
tions, as well as by her children and grandchild-
ren, relatives and friends. She was a most affec-
tionate and tender mother, wise and judicious in
the training and management of those under her
care. Sister Snow's last visit to this City was at
the October Conference in 1889, which she very
much enjoyed. From here she went to the Manti
Temple and officiated there for some of her
kindred passed away, which was a great com-
fort. She has gone to join those gone before,
her children, parents and loved ones, and to re-
ceive the reward laid up for those, who endure
unto the end of life's pilgrimage. Sister Zina D.
H. Young was at the house at the time of Sister
Snow's death, having gone up there the day be-
fore hoping to comfort if possible those who were
so sorely afflicted at this trying time.
	To the bereaved husband and family the writer


extends her sincere sympathy and condolence,
but realizes that after a long and useful life, she
has gone to the rest that remains to the Saints of
God.

	"After the burden and heat of the day,
		The starry calm of night;
	After the rough and toilsome way
		Asleep in the robe of white."


[Column 1]

﻿FORTY YEARS AMONG THE INDIANS.

	The above is the title of a book issued from
the Juvenile Instructor Office during this Spring;
the author of the work is Daniel W. Jones, a man
well know among this people for many years past
and as the name of the book signifies, contains
his experiences among the natives, and his views
of their condition and treatment. The writer is
undoubtedly a man of great courage or he could
never have ventured into dangerous places as he
evidently has, from the thrilling episodes graphi-
cally related in his book.
	It would be quite impossible in so little space
as we have to devote to the matter to give a com-
plete review of the work, neither does the writer
think herself a competent judge of books written
upon Indian subjects. It is a theme separate and
apart almost from other literature, and requires as
much thorough attention in order to form correct
views as to master a foreign language. After
forty years practical experience with the aborigi-
nes of the Western wilds, Brother Jones ought
to be posted in regard to Indian habits and
practises. The subject is an exhaustive one, and
it is a topic that has ever presented new
phases in treating upon from the time the earliest
Pilgrims set foot on this continent. Solomon
said there was nothing new under the sun, but
there are many things new to us in the history of
the people, past and present, who formerly pos-
sessed the land of America, and Brother Jones
has discovered some of these new things and has
told them in his characteristic style.
	It requires men and women of peculiar attri-
butes and temperaments to adapt themselves
sufficiently to Indian life to get at the bottom of it
or to see through the subtlety and cunning natural
to savage nations, and be able to live among
them and help to uplift and elevate them. They
are far sighted even in their ignorance and super-
stition and are very suspicious of others therefore
men must be honest and upright who expect to
do them good in any matter whatever. They ad-
mire courage and detest cowardice; fearless,
great-souled men of splendid physique and
majestic presence are the ones likely to be well
treated by them.
	In this book there are many simple plain stories
told in a straight forward way, the facts of which
are well known to our people; and much of life
in the South which will be better appreciated by
those acquainted with the country, than one who
knows so little of what might be termed Indian
history.
	One thing may be said truthfully of this book,
open it anywhere promiscuously and you will find
the reading matter interesting at least, and often
absorbing. A book that one may pick up and
read here and there detached passages out o
chapters, must contain many rich incidents, and
on whatever subject written there would be a
charm about it, otherwise it could not interest the
reader.
	Brother Jones says of himself that his style is
peculiar and more than that the writer affirms
that it is original. It is not a copy of any other
work; and being original in style, and giving
many sides of Indian character in which the
Latter-day Saints take great interest, it should
find ready sale as no doubt it will.
	As to the author's good motives in publishing
there can be very little doubt, and whatever tends

[Column 2]

to the simplifying of  the great problem of the
Indian question must be of value and of special
worth. It seems to us a book that might do good
among the people of the United States in remov-
ing prejudice against the Indians and showing
the better side of their nature. The writer would
be very glad to see it circulated not only among
this poople but where prejudice is rife against
those, who feel they were once the rightful
owners of the soil now in the possession of the
white men.
	The heart full of sympathy instinctively ex-
claims with the poet,
	"Lo ! the poor Indian"


AN INTERESTING LETTER.

Central House, Bridgetown,
	Barbados, West Indies,
		April 2, 1890.
MY DEAR DAISIE:
	Your welcome and most interesting letter
reached me the latter part of last Jan., it was
worthy of an immediate response, but as we were
talking up a trip to the West Indies I thought you
would like better to hear from me while in foreign
parts.

	We left New York Feb., 26th, at noon on the
steamer "Finance" of the U. S. & Brazilian Mail
S. S. Line. A run of twenty four hours brought
us to Newport News, Va., where fruit trees and
spring flowers were all in bloom and the air was
soft and mild. We were delayed there three
days, taking on freight, and left in the midst of a
fearfully cold snow-storm—the severest I have
seen this winter. But a few days later we were
glad to pack away winter wraps and get on some
light, summer underwear. Seven days from New-
port News we made our second stop at the island
of St. Thomas; a Danish possession, and great
coaling station for all nationalities. Our captain
took on sufficient to run his vessel away down to
Santos, below Rio Janerio and return. Every
piece was brought on in baskets on the heads of
colored women and girls, with just a sprinkling of
men. An overseer of their own color stood at
the gang plank with a lash which he used freely
and vigorously over their backs and legs, while
the most fearful oaths fell from the lips of the wo-
men. It was a strange sight, while the sounds
almost made one's hair stand on end. It was a
glorious moonlight night and the land-locked
harbor made an exquisite picture, which we en-
joyed from the Captain's boat as he kindly took
two of us ladies ashore to wander about under
the tropical foliage and along the foreign streets,
with their quaint shops. We were now really
in the Caribbean sea and were not again out of
sight of land.
	The following evening we passed Guadaloupe
just as the moon rose behind her mountains cast-
ing a silvery track across the waters. How we
wished ourselves artists, that we might transfer to
canvas the little schooner under full sail that
flitted out of the shadow of the island, across that
shining track, and as quickly again disappeared
among the shadows! Our third stop was made
on the following morning at Martinique, the
birthplace of the empress Josephine. It was
only five o'clock, so we saw the sun rise behind
the mountains and sunlight creep over the vivid
tropical green of the island. The little city of
St. Pierre looked most picturesque and I longed
to take a run through her large cathedral, but we
only stopped about a half hour. A great, white
statue of the Virgin standing among the green
trees on the hillside, reminded us that it was a
French possession and conseqently a Roman
Catholic community. Between St. Pierre and
Port of France we passed what I believe to be


[Column 1]

﻿the veritable scene which serves as frontispiece
to Abbott's "Life of Josephine." I shall look it
up when I get home. There was a large cocoa-
nut grove on the shore at the foot of the mountain,
under whose waving fronds could be seen the
huts of the native fishermen and their nets spread
out to dry—I have seen it before, I know, in
dream, if not elsewhere.
	At evening of the same day we dropped anchor
in the open roadstead of Bridgetown. As the
"Finance" was to make a stay of several hours
we waited for the moon to rise, so that we were
wild with delight over the novelty of our drive
from the carenage to the hotel. Some how the
moonlight makes wondrously beautiful pictures
and the cacti, tall as trees, and the cocoanut and
cabbage palms shaking their long fronds in the
breezes of the trade wind, not to mention the
southern cross shining just above the horizon
made us realize that it was a bit of landscape
such as we had read and dreamed about it, but
was now to become a reality in our lives. 
	April 6th,—Easter Sunday, and the church
bells have been ringing joyous peals ever since five
o'clock. Barbados being an English possession
the blacks as well as whites belong to the church
of England. Good Friday was a genuine re-
ligious holiday, the streets being even more
quiet than on ordinary Sundays, and no business
man being allowed to let a single clerk into his
store or office on that day under a penalty of £50.
Nine tenths of this densely populated island are
blacks, or "niggers" as they are universally called.
The women dress generally in white, which not
seldom is merely a mass of rags and shreds, so
that we wonder how it is kept on; often in the
country they wear a garment made of bagging
having just a hole through which they put their
heads. They go bare-footed but always wear a
handkerchief tied over their heads. The women,
but not the men, carry all burdens on their heads
thinking nothing of starting off with a half bushel
of sweet potatoes, or eddoes, on their head to
walk miles without resting. About town they
carry wooden trays filled with every imaginable
thing, pea-nuts, glass-ware, and pottery, fancy
cakes, fruit, cocoa-nuts, guavas, water-lemons,
star-apples, star-plums, sapodilla, bananas, and
plantains, bread-fruit, yams, sugar-cane, cracked-
liquor, made of cane juice, hot-sauce, made of
peppers, great bundles of all sorts and kinds, pails
of water, bits of fire wood for their fire-pots—it is
interesting, just to stand at the window and watch
the sights. Tiny donkeys in little carts are con-
stantly clattering by, then there are great hogs-
heads of sugar drawn by five or six mules and
perhaps four or five men perched on the load, but
always with a small boy at a dead run with a lash
in hand which he incessantly applies to the backs
and sides of the poor animals. The whole island
is under high cultivation, sugar being the staple.
As we drive about it seems as though the island
was one garden of canes. We visited the estate
of Fairfield to witness the process of sugar-mak-
ing. Then we spent a whole week in the country
at the sea-side, gathering shells and bathing in
the lovely waters of the Caribbean sea, over
which Columbus sailed when making his dis-
coveries. We've also made excursions to Bath-
sheba on the Atlantic side of the island, and to
the Crane on the south shore. These latter
places we reached by rail, Barbados being the
only one of the Windward group of islands that
is so fortunate as to possess a railroad. The city
of Bridgetown has several tram-way lines also
water-works that give them an abundance of fine
water. The whole island is at present being
piped so as to furnish all the country estates and
villages with good water. It will require a year
or two more to complete the work. The amount
of buiness done here is astonishing. The road-
stead is full of shipping all the time. One day I
was told that there were one hundred and thirty

[Column 2]

seven steamers and vessels in on that day.—
Seven steamers are at this moment on their way
from New York to Barbados and yet it is almost
impossible to get or send mails. During our four
week’s stay we have sent off mail but once. That
of course has both its advantages and disad-
vantages.
	I think I must tell you about one of our all day
excursions. It was a carriage drive to St. John's
church and Codrington college. We started at
seven a. m., as the heat becomes very oppressive
after nine o'clock. We found St. John's to be a
modern and extremely pretty church in the midst
of trees and a quaint, quaint church-yard. It
stands on a high cliff some seven hundred feet
above the sea, and replaces an old church which
was destroyed in the hurricane of 1831. Then we
wandered into the rector's garden, where we dis-
covered a strange, new tree bearing great cones,
so we ventured to rap at the rectory door and ask
if we might take away a cone; well, it resulted in
being invited in and entertained by the rector's
lady with true English hospitality. A drive of
two miles brought us to the College, which we
reached just before the noon chapel service, which
we participated in, and were afterward shown
over the institution by some of the young divinity
students. It is one of the loveliest spots we've
seen—great avenues of cabbage palms, a lakelet
on the grounds,tropical plants of all kinds and the
cool thick-walled buildings, with great arches open-
ing from front to rear showing the blue, blue sea
with its mass of foam on the reefs at the foot of
the cliff. The place had for me just the same
charm as did the Armenian convent on a little
island, near Venice, where Lord Byron used to
delight in spending weeks and weeks in study.
I shall not soon forget it, nor the kind courtesy
of the students.

	I see I must hasten to a close. I do hope you
will spend the coming year in Boston, We ex-
pect to get back to Campello about June 1st,
when I shall hope to hear of your plains. We
are soon to leave this island for Martinique prob-
ably. Our plans are not very definite, as it is
hard to make steamer connections. Father,
mother and Lottie wish to be remembered.
	Yours with love,
		A. M. WHELDEN.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


TRIBUTE MAY FIRST.

MY SISTERS DEAR:
	Oh! that this sweet month may be the happiest
of your life among the thistles and sweet flowers
of Time, soon, soon they will be faded away, but
may the pure sisterly sentiment that prompts the
hand to gather these angel-eyed comforts for you
never wither and fade, I know it cannot, a lasting
Spring will soon come to,
	Yours as ever
		M. O. KELTING.

	Every year for sometime past the writer has re-
ceived from the lady whose name is affixed to the
note above, a floral offering, and it is always ac-
companied with tender sentiments, which ever
bring pleasant thoughts. We have no words to
express the appreciation we feel for the friendship
so delicately expressed. Remembrances such as
these promote good feelings and form lasting ties
between those who have never met, but would
otherwise be strangers to each other. We shall
treasure in the storehouse of memory these happy
reminders, and if we should never meet on earth
we may know each other in the great hereafter.


[Column 1]

SUFFRAGE MEETINGS.

	A meeting of the W. S. A. of Millard Co.
was held in Holden April 15, Mrs. M. A. Y.'

[Column 2]

Greenhalgh presiding. It was well attended
the speakers were the president, Mr. A. Y.
Stephenson, and Mr. Cherrington, Mesdames
M. M. Ashley and M. Badger. All expressed
themselves in perfect sympathy with the
movement being made for obtaining the suff-
rage for women, and her political righti, thus
ensuring her freedom.
	Two meetings of the W. S. A. of Millard
Co., were held in Deseret April 16, Mrs. M.
A. Y. Greenhalgh presiding. The first meet-
ing was held at 2 30 in the Relief Society
hall, and was well attended. At 5 p.m. a
motion was made that an evening meeting
should be held in the schoolhouse at 8 p.m.
and the meeting was adjourned until that
hour.
	At the evening meeting the house was well
filled. Both meetings were opened with
prayer. The afternoon meeting Leigh Cropper
and the evening by B. W. Scott. The choir
sang several of the songs of Freedom, with
much spirit. The president gave an account
of her labors since the last meeting at Deseret,
and of her visit to Salt Lake to attend the
convention last October, she spoke at some
length on the suffrage question,and the right of
freedom for women, and the advance the
movement was making all over the world.
	The speakers in the afternoon, besides the
president, were Leigh Cropper and Joshua
Bennett, and Mesdames Cropper, Whickers,
Stocks, and Gibbs.
	In the evening the speakers were the presi-
dent, J. W. Reed and J. F. Gibbs, Mesdames
Fanny Scott, and Anna Kinder also spoke
enthusiastically in favor of equal rights for
women. The two gentlemen speakers differed
with the president, as to woman being as
strong-minded as man, or as quick of percep-
tion, but were in favor of her having the
ballot, and equal political rights with men.
The song "Lords of Creation," was charmingly
rendered by Mrs. Vilate Hawley; the choir
sang one of freedom’s songs, and the meeting
closed with prayer offered by R. S. Scott.
	A meeting of the Millard Co., W. S. A.
was held in Oak City, April 16th, Mrs. M. A.
Y. Greenhrlgh presiding. The meeting was
opened with prayer by G. Finlayson, singing
by the choir. The president stated the ob-
ject of the association, and read the constitu-
tion, this being the first meeting held in Oak
City since the organization of the W. S. A. in
Millard Co. The president addressed the
meeting at some length, upon the equal rights
question, and the emancipation of woman
from political thraldom.
	The other speakers were G. Finlayson, and
E. Roper. These gentlemen said this was the
first meeting of the W. S. A. they had at-
tended, but they were perfectly in accord
with the movement, and hoped the time was
not far distant, when women would have the
ballot; and would have equal rights with the
men.
	There was some good singing by the choir,
and a vote of thanks was tendered to the
president for her visit. The meeting termi-
nated by prayer offered by Jos. Anderson.
	A meeting of the Millard Co., W. S. A.
was held in Leamington April 17. Mrs. M.
A. Y. Greenhalgh presiding, the meeting was
fairly well attended, all present being enthusi-
astic, and earnest in advocating equal rights
for women, especially the right of suffrage.
The speakers were the president, Messrs. Neil-
son, Talbot, Textonias, and Grundald—and
Mesdames Morison, Textonias, Sorenson Han-
cock and Pay. Many of the speeches were
forcible and well delivered, showing that the
speakers had studied the subject, and felt
keenly the injustice of being deprived of the
right to the ballot.


[Column 1]

	The choir sang some of freedom's songs in
a spirited manner adding much to the interest
of the meeting. The opening prayer was
offered by Bishop Neilson, and the benediction
by B. P. Textonias. The president was in-
troduced by Mrs. Lestra Morison in a neat,
and appropriate speech.
	A meeting of the Millard Co., W. S. A. was
held at Meadow, April 30. Mrs. M. A. Y. Green-
halgh presiding. The choir sang, and prayer
was offered by H. G. Labrum. The president
gave a brief account of her journey through the
county, and expressed herself as being proud
of the manner in which all the towns had re-
sponded to the call, for meetings, and thought
that Millard would, and could, bear compari-
son with any other county in the Territory,
both as to number of meetings held during the
past eleven months and the number of names
on the list of members.
	The other speakers beside the president,
were Messrs. Beckstrand, James Duncan, David
Duncan and Hyrum Adams. Mr. Adams
gave a humorous description of woman's faults
from mother Eve down to the present time,
saying she was only a terror to the men, but
yet felt she was fully entitled to the ballot and
equal political rights, with the men. He stated
that in what he had said he had been fishing
for a reply from the president, with whom he
had often had wordy tussles on the same ques-
tion, but only for the purpose of getting her
ideas on this subject and other political and
social questions.
	The president replied in a short speech, the
little episode made the meeting lively and en-
joyable. Mrs. Jane Stewart was the only other
speaker, in a short, but effective speech she ad-
vocated the rights of her sex, and expressed a
hope that we should obtain all we asked for.
	The choir sang and the meeting was ad-
journed. Prayer being offered by E. A. Beck-
strand.
		M. A. Y. 	GREENHALGH.

A HAWAIIAN SUN MYTH.

	Ages ago there ruled over one of the "seven
isles" that now form collectively the kingdom
of Hawaii, the powerful demi-god Maui. So
great was he that the island which he governed
is known today by his name, and is second in
size and importance of them all. The island
was originally but one huge peak, rising ten
thousand feet above the sea, and Pele, the
great goddess of volcanoes, had her fiery home
in the huge crater on its summit. To the
westward rose another peak, where formerly
Pele had dwelt; and when, in the course of
centuries, the goddess abandoned the great
crater on the eastern half took up her abode
Kilauea, on Hawaii, where she yet rides on
waves of liquid fire in the incandescent lakes
of Hale-mau-mau, "the house of fire"—the slow
moving debris from the vast slopes of her
former home drove back the sea, and formed.
the low lying penninsula uniting East and
West Maui.
	The great demi-god, from whom the island
takes its name, saw each day the sun rise
from out of the vast crater on the eastern
summit; and he resolved like Joshua of old
to stop it on its course. So he prepared a net
and had it carried on the shoulders of a
thousand men, and in one night spread it from
one peak to another, until it covered the great
crater. Then he watched, and when the sun
god again arose from out the depths of that
profound abyss he found himself entangled in
the spreading mesh. In vain he sent his
fiery shafts abroad; they passed through the
deftly woven meshes without weakening them;
and so at last the sun god prayed to be re
leased.
	Maui exacted but one condition; that was,

[Column 2]

that for all future time the sun should shine
with warm but gentle power on the islands,
never shrouding his rays in mist or fog, or
causing them to beat too strongly on the
favored land. The promise given, the net was
cut away, and since then the sun has kept
its pledge. The year around it sheds its light
and life over the "seven isles," never too
warm or cold, never obscured by fogs or mists,
always beneficent and bland.		Ex.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

THE POET'S VISION AND THE
PHILOSOPHER'S LAW.

	Prof. Henry Drummond has pointed out
that it frequently happens that the poet's
vision is more quick than the scientist's or the
theologian's. And history is full of proofs of
his statement, The poet's vision has been the
first to foresee many an important discovery of
science, many a Copernican revolution in
philosophy and theology. Not always true as
a hard-and-fast statement of fact are these poetic
visions, but they give to science a bias that soon
bears fruit. I suppose few of us will keep
company with Arthur Schopenhauer when he
says, "It' a single real existence, even the
most insignificant, were to be utterly annihila-
ted, the whole world would necessarily perish
with it." Much less will we assent to the con-
ceit of the great mystic, Angelus Silesius,
when he says:

	"I know God cannot live an instant without me,
	He must give up the ghost if I should cease to be."

Yet a moment's reflection upon these statements
in the light of modern science fills them with
profound significance. The little atom now
so insignificant has been a power in the world
since its earliest beginning. It has wielded
some influence, "though ever so lowly," upon
the whole world. And perhaps at some time
in its career it may have been the pivot over
which the balance, swayed toward modern pro-
gress, or it may have been the straw that
broke the camel's back. Angelus Silesius was
not an accident in his own age but a real
organic part of it. Certain forms of energy
had been preparing since creation's early morn,
to work powerfully through the mystic's brain
and nerve fiber. In a sense, then, it was no
conceit for him to say "God cannot live an
instant without me." For without him the
whole past and future history of the world
must have been changed, and changed in
utter disregard of God's fundamental law, the
law of the persistence of force.
	Before Silesius lived the above thought was
foreshadowed by a statement in the book of
Hebrews that the old patriarchs without us
cannot be made perfect. So long as time lasts
no life that bridged a portion of it is complete.
All this prepares us for that poet's vision
of the value of little things which Jesus had
"Take heed," says he "that ye despise not one
of these little ones." In these words is fore-
shadowed one of the profoundest and most
beautiful truths of modern science. Do not
despise one of these little things, for the
little and the great are so closely joined that
even a God cannot separate them. Not a
sparrow falls to the ground without our
Father's notice. The very hairs of our head are
all numbered. There is but one universe and it
is a universum. Just as the crushing of
a finger is at once reported at the brain so
that the whole self suffer—so, says science,
there is not a thing in the universe that is
isolate from the rest, but every smallest thing
is woven in the very web and woof of the
whole. Its grief, its sorrow, its joy, and its
hope are at once felt at the very core of being.
To despise the little things is to forget and
ignore this great law. Little moments little
smiles, little favors, little deeds—out of these,
worlds are made and character is builded. It

[Column 2]

was a favorite thought of the late Professor
Morris, of Michigan university, that to the
Absolute Eye nothing can be either common
place or ugly. Our training has been such that
we look upon certain animals as awkward and
hideous;but it is our training and the littleness
of our minds and hearts that incline us to
despise those animals. To God, as the Hebrew
Koheleth has said, "all things are beautiful."
And to Him no littlest, meanest thing is
despised. A universe has a use for all things,
and it is ignorance of this great and lovable
truth that makes contempt of little things so
common and so baneful in its effects. We
see in the little things only littleness, familarity,
and contempt, when we ought to find, even
here, greatness, wisdom, and praise. The poet
Chaucer saw all the beauty, tenderness, and
strength of human love in a common wild
daisy. The psalmist saw all the glory, majesty,
and royalty of his Messiah in the lily of the
valley. Jesus saw the workings of His doctrine
portrayed with marvelous accuracy and clear-
ness in the behavior of the lump of leaven which
the woman took and hid in three measures of
meal.
	It is the last straw that breaks the camel's
back. It is the push of a very small boy that
sets the great, new ship sliding gracefully
down into old ocean's waiting arms. It is the
little foxes that  spoil the vines. A fuller
knowledge must lead us forever out of the rut
of contempt for small things. The great
things of life we cannot appreciate until we
cease despising the little things. One of the
happiest freaks in Emerson's style, according
to Mr. Gannett, is his favorite habit of com-
paring great things with small. By an effort
almost divine he is ever and anon impressing
us with the magnitude and pivotal importance
of little things. "the universe" he says, "is
represented in every one of its particles.
Everything in nature contains all the powers
of nature." "The entire system of things gets
represented in every particle." "Every man is
a divinity in disguise." "Every true man a
cause, a country, and an age; requires infinite
spaces and numbers and time fully to ac-
complish his thought."

	"There is no great and no small
	To the Soul that maketh all."

We may accept Emerson's philosophy or not,
as we will, but we must admit the wisdom of
his teachings in regard to the little things.
There was no room for contempt in a soul
like Emerson's. His view was so penetrating,
deep, and broad.
	If there is one thought above another that
our larger knowledge is pressing home to us,
it is the idea of the solidarity of existence; it
is the idea that there	*	*	*
God is just as  present now as He was
when Moses prayed and Isaiah prophesied,
just as present in the shop to day as he was in
the church last Sunday, just as present in the
deed as in the prayer, in the blade of grass as
in the bleeding heart. No law is any more
isolated from another than is one family from
another in the same city. All things are laced
and interlaced; all are bound together in a
great bundle of aspiration, man with man,
sun with sun, force with force. And as this
thought grows upon us, we are more than
ever impressed that in this great system of
law, order, and organization, all things the
little as well as the great, become ministerial
in aspect.

	As Byron has said;

	I live not in myself, but I become
	Portion of that around me.

And again in the same strain he sings:

	Are not the mountaians, waves, and skies a part
	Of me and of my soul, as I of them?

		—A. B. Curtis.
	Big Rapids, Mich.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


MISCELLANEOUS.

	Duties are ours, events are God's.—Cecil.
	They never fall who die in a great cause.—
Byron.
	When joy's day is over faith shines through
the arctic skies like a midnight sun.
	Try to frequent the company of your betters
in books and life. That is the most wholesome
society.
	It is always good to know, if only in pass-
ing, a charming human being; it refreshes
one like flowers and woods and clear brooks.
—George Eliot.
	Hope nothing from luck, and the probability
is that you will be so prepared, forewarned,
and fore-armed, that all shallow observers
will call you lucky.—Bulwer Lytton.
	Great talents for conversation should be
attended with politeness. He who eclipses
others owes them great civilities; and what-
ever a mistaken vanity may tell us, it is better
to please in couversation than to shine in it.
	I have drunk deeply of the draught of
science; I have loved it with a passionate love,
and now I am becoming an old man; and I can
say that every discovery of science has bronght
me more nearly face to face with the love of
God.—Charles Kingsley.


WHERE WAS HER MOTHER?

	Edwin Booth has told how he lately took
occasion to reprove some silly young women
who were seeking his acquaintance, and now
George Riddle has a similar story to tell. A
gushing young girl in Chicago, a stranger to
Mr. Riddle, kept writing to him, begging an
interview. Mr. Riddle paid no attention to
her notes, till finally she called on him and
sent up her autograph album, with the request
that he would at least give her his autograph,
with a favorite sentiment. Mr. Riddle there-
upon gave her this,from "Romeo and Juliet:"

	Your love says, like an honest gentleman,
	Where-s your mother?

		—Boston Herald.


[Column 1]

NOTES AND NEWS.

	Eleven women are on the school board in
six cities in Norway.
	Mrs. A. L. Webster edits a woman's colum
in the Oberlin (O.) Exponent.
	MRS. LOGAN is an accomplished carpenter,
and fills her house with skilful conveniences
of her own contriving.
	MISS M. A. FARWELL has opened a public
cocoonery in New Orleans, La. Silk worms
in all stages are on exhibition.
	Mrs. Grover Cleveland has been re-elected
president of the Wells College Alumnae
Association.
	The Princess of Wales is said to be in a
serious condition of health. Her increasing
deafness has resulted in fits of extreme
melancholy. She is now at Sandringham.
	MISS SUSAN B. ANTHONY is in South Dakota
in the interest of the woman suffrage amend-
ment. Her address is care of Mrs. Emma S.
De Voe, Huron, So. Dak.
	Dr. Belle Smith, who is said to be only
twenty-three years old, has been appointed
resident physician of the Woman's Prison at
Sherborn, Mass.

[Column 2]

	Miss Susan B. Anthony and Mrs. Mary
Seymour Howell are addressing a series of
country conventions in South Dakota in the
interest of woman suffrage amendment.
	MISS MAY ROGERS, of Dubuque, Iowa, is
the author of a "Waverly Dictionary," in
which the 1,300 or more characters in Sir
Walter Scott's novels are all described, with
illustrative extracts from the text. The book
is said to be a complete key to Scott's works.
	Miss Braddon, less well-known as Mrs.
Maxwell, is described as fair of skin, sandy of
hair, and stout of figure. She works hard
four days of the week, and plays three days.
Among her recreations are horseback-riding,
play-going, and entertaining her friends, She
is a collector of bric-a-brac, a lover of Dickens,
a genial hostess, and an accomplished cook.
She has published more than fifty novels, is
married to her publisher, who is rich, and
after all the "copy" she has produced she still
writes a legible hand.

	In the Massacdusetts Legislature the bill
reported by the committee on taxation, impos-
ing duties upon legacies and successions,
exempts from its provisions legacies to "a
father, mother, brother, sister, child (whether
by blood or adoption,) grandfather, grand-
mother, grandchild. or daughter-in-law son-in-
law of the decedent;" but it does not exempt
legacies to a wife or to a husband. The
Boston Transcript says:
	"Considering that in very many cases the
accumulation of property by the husband is
in a large measure, if not entirely, due to the
assistance of the wife, it looks a little like in-
justice to compel the latter to pay a five per
cent. tax upon money which though it passes
to her through the form of a will, is in fact as
much hers as it was her husband's, if not
more so.  .........The bill met with opposition
because of the radical change it proposes in
our law and custom, and because, as the
officials contend, the income accruing would
be trifling and by no means commensurate to
the additional labor devolving upon probate
officers and others. If the bill receives proper
discussion. it is believed that sufficient opposi-
tion will develop to defeat its passage even in
the House."
		Woman's Journal.


RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.

	Resolutions of respect to the memory of Sister Mary
Cole, who died at Provo March 16th, 1890, after a serious
illness of three months. She was the wife of Benjamen
Cole, and was born May 29th 1830. Emigrated to Utah
in 1851, she lived in Goshen a number of years, moved to
Provo in the Spring of 1888.
	Whereas; Sister Cole was one of the first members of the
Goshen Relief Society and labored faithfully as a teacher
for many years, was also a teacher in the Sunday School
and performed these duties faithfully as far as her health
would permit; she passed through much sickness and many
trials in her family; she desired very much to go to the
Temple of the Lord and receive the blessings therein for
herself and also for the dead hut was prevented from this
great blessing by circumstances she could not overcome,
	Resolved, that we the members of the Goshen Relief
Society do appreciate the labors and faithful performance
of duty of our departed Sister.
	Resolved, that inasmuch as our heavenly Father has seen
fit to call from our midst our beloved sister we sympathize
with the husband and family in their bereavement.
	Be it further resolved, that we present a copy a of these
resolutions to the bereaved family, and preserve a copy on
the pages of our record, and that a copy be sent to the EX-
PONENT for publication.
		MARY DODDS,
		EMMA L. JENKINS,
		SARAH ROBERTS,
			Committee.


Tickets
on sale
TO ALL
PRINCIPAL POINTS
EAST, WEST,
NORTH and SOUTH
—AT—
UNION TICKET OFFICE,
Main Street, Salt Lake City.
J. V.	PARKER,
Asst. Genl. Pass. Agt.

R. K. THOMAS
26, 28, 30 and 32 East 1st South St.,
SALT LAKE CITY.
The Leading Retail
Cash House.
R. K. THOMAS

Special to the Ladies.
AT TEASDEL'S
Will be found the latest styles and productions
in
LACES,  RUCHES,  EMBRODERIES,
FANS,  GLOVES,  PARASOLS,
RIBBONS,  COLLARS,  TIES
And an elegant assortment of
DRY  GOODS.
Special department for Ladies’ Misses’ and In-
fant’s Shoes.
112, 114, 116, 118 East Temple Str

DAVID JAMES & CO.
TINNERS GAS,WATER & STEAM FITTERS
	Agent for RUMSEY’S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS.  Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from
the country promptly responded to.
	Address. DAVID JAMES. Box 306. SALT LAKE CITY.


OBSTETRICS AND NURSING.
	Mrs. Isabella M. Lunn of Mill Creek, Salt Lake
Co., a student from Dr. Maggie C. Shipp's Obstet-
rical Class, passed a very satisfactory and rigid
examination and has also been set apart by some
of the Apostles to go forth and labor and assist
her own sex in their noble mission, in the line
marked out by her course of study.

