Vol. 18.		SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, OCTOBER 15, 1889.		No. 10.


CONTENTS.

	A Mother’s Duty.	Hephzibah—A story. A
Law College for Women. Luncheon in the Pine
Woods.—Aunt Em. Prayerfulness.—Mamie Tay-
lor.
	Editorial. The October Conference. Editorial
Notes. A Happy Occasion. The Young
Woman’s Journal. Woman Suffrage.—M. E.
Teasdale.
	Relief Society Conference. R. S. Report.
Queen’s College, Belfast—Englishwoman’s Review
Westminister Abbey.—Hearth and Hall. Notes
and News.
	POETRY.—A Vision.—Ida M. Davis. Lines
Suggested at a Funeral.—C. L. W. Johny is Pack-
ing His Trunk.—S. E. Russell. September.
—Selected.


A VISION.

I stood alone midst the creeping shade
Where ghost-like hands upon my head seemed laid,
That pointed long white fingers to dark wings
Circling around me with weird flutterings,
Outlined like frightened birds against the sky,
Now brushing close my shoulders. Shudderingly
I threw my arms, protecting, o’er my head,
And from those glittering eyeballs fled.
Bnt ever to my quickening pace they sped,
Like lost souls doomed to night, uncomforted.
I cry to Proserpine: "What are these illstarred things?"
And she, from out the gloom, this answer brings:

"They are the spirits of all idle words,
Fated to fill the air like frenzied birds,
That must flee on forever ’gainst the night
Haunting the memory with untiring flight;
The careless words that human lips have sown
Like thoughtless children flinging seeds, wind-blown;
Hopes slain with thoughts by dread Injustice strewn—
The sin for which no victim can atone.”
And I, with sad heart, turning from her knew
The dumb reproach that tears could not undo.
O words, undying as the sunlit heights,
Stay, lest ye wing your way thro' starless nights!
		—IDA M. DAVIS, in the Inter Ocean.


LINES SUGGESTED AT A FUNERAL.

How lavish we strew the sweet-scented flowers,
	O'er the coffin, and graves of the dead,
And speak in loud praise of their virtuous deeds
	But while living a word is ne’er said.

We place on the casket sweet emblems of love,
	We pile beauteous wreaths on the lid;
And award all our praises of good to the corse
	Who, when living not one could be said.

Sweet garlands of Lilies we hang on the bier,
	As tributes of love and respect;
We pile his good deeds on the black coffin lid
	But while living we’d surely neglect.

We deck the white shroud with amaranths fair,
	We kiss the cheek, tear-stained and tanned;
While in life ne’er received the press of our lips,
	Nor hardly the shake of our hand.

We garnish the coffin with tapestry rich,
	And eulogize him that is cold—
We praise all his deeds on his funeral day,
	But when living, not one could be told.

How hollow the cant oer the funeral pall
	How freely the praise they are giving
’Twould be balm to his soul, to praise the poor wretch,
	With a few kindly words, while he’s living.


How costly the hearse that bears the lone corpse,
	To its last resting place 'neath the sod;
And we seemingly wish him a tender good-bye—
	But when living, we'd scarce give a nod.

We solemnly chant o’er his grave a low dirge,
	For him that’s cut down by the "Reaper"—
We quit the sad scene, it fades from our view,
	We forget the lone GRAVE, and the sleeper—
									C. L. W.


A MOTHER’S DUTY.

	There has much been said and written in
regard to the proper training of our children,
and the very great responsibilities resting
upon mothers.  I have had many reflections
upon this subject, and thought I would write a
few of them, and also the conclusion I had
come to upon some few points.
	It seems to be the opinion of the majority,
that the mothers alone are responsible for the
kind of characters their children will bear,
when they grow up to manhood and woman-
hood.
	In my humble opinion, the fathers should
by right, shoulder a good share of this re-
sponsibility, having a better opportunity of 
aquiring knowledge and understanding of those
principles, which are the best calculated, to
lead the youth in to the path which leads to
eternal lives.  It should be the duty of every
father to gather his family around him in the
evening when possible, and teach, and explain
those principles that lay at the foundation of
our holy religion, and how refreshing it would
be to the true mother, to throw aside her
cares for a short time to listen with her children,
to these words of comfort and encourage-
ment which the father should be prepared to
give who fills his mission faithfully as an
Elder in Israel.  She would feel renewed
strength and encouragement, to go forth and
fill her part of the programme, in the proper
training of their children.  Her teaching will
have more effect.  One assists the other.
mothers have a better opportunity to under-
stand the different traits and dispositions of
the children, and are perhaps better calculated 
in their natures to mould their characters, but
they need strength and support which is only
gained through a husband’s love and sympathy.
How many fathers are there, who enter their
homes without any signs of recognition of any of
its inmates, pick up a book or paper, and
are soon so deeply interested in the contents
as to be perfectly oblivious to all that is around
them.  De they ever stop to reflect that per-
haps, wife and children, would be just as
interested as themselves in the contents, if
they had the opportunity.  And if the father 
could be so self-sacrificing as to read aloud
such portions as would be useful, amusing or
instructive it would contribute very much to
the happiness of the home circle. How much
easier the children of such a family could be
controlled.  How much more susceptible their
natures would be to good impresions. Our
children are (or should be) our glory: the
fathers as well as the mothers, And my
private opinion publicly expressed is, where
the parents work hand in hand together, their
children take a greater interest in those institu-
tions which are organized for their benefit.
Primary Associations, Sabbath Schools &c.,
Parents should also attend them thus strength-
ening and encouraging those who preside over
these institutions, and are laboring so faith-
fully in the interest of the youth of Zion:
these are a few of my feelings in regard to
home government;  I trust the expression of
them will do no harm if they will do no good.
	Ever praying for the children of Zion, and 
those interested in their welfare.
	I am as ever a friend to	
	Fair Play.
Aug. 24th 1889.


HEPHZIBAH.
				IX.
	How beautiful in youth the  golden dreams,
		That love and fancy to our vision bring,
	With what bright radiance all the future gleams
		While we just taste at the Pierian Spring.

	To Hepsie her school days were full of joy-
ous anticipation as well as happiness in the
present, for she loved her studies and pored
over her books when others of the class were
totally absorbed in frivolity and fashion, and
in discussing social matters, for they were more
anxious to appear well and gain popularity
than to obtain knowledge to prepare them for
lives of future usefulness.  Hepsie was a long
way from home and did not often see any of
her own family except the sister with whom
she was staying; and this good sister was much
troubled in her mind over her because of her
inclination to wander in the fields and woods,
and give her time so much to solitude instead
of actual life of which she very well knew
there would be great need in the girl's future.
She was practical herself content to “settle
down,” and leave all matters of great moment
to her husband: which Hepsie noticed and
with her individuality could not altogether
countenance, and on one occasion when her
sister had reproved her mildly for not giving
more attention to her wardrobe which she sadly
neglected for her books, and also to take long
walks in the beech woods not far away, she in-
stead of replying to her sisters questioning of
how she spent her time, very impertinently
for one so much younger, began catechizing
Mrs. Severance.
	“Why do you spend all your time waiting
upon a man, who is not as ‘smart’ as you are,
and who never allows you to have any say at
all when he is talking, even about things you
know so much better than he does. ‘You’ll
settle down here I suppose all your life, and
never know nor realize what is going on in
the great world outside, while your husband
will attain a name and distinction among men
possibly, and his wife far more capable, shine
only in his light.”
	“How very wise you think yourself little
one, ‘replied the sister,’ having chosen my
husband out of all the world, I am quite con-
tent he should shine as my bright particular
star at least.”
	“But he is not willing you should shine that
is the point, equality of husband and wife
is the standard for me.”
	“What about St. Paul does he not say wives
should be submissive, and also that they should
learn of their husbands at home? “said Mrs. S.
in reply, “Mrs. Grovsener used to teach her
husband, how does that agree with St. Paul’s
ideas? in fact she told me a great deal about
women helping their husband’s, minister’s
wives and others, and she believed that women
could teach the Scriptures publicly, and that


the Savior thought more of women than minis-
ters do in our day, and that He paid them
more respect.”
	“Hepsie you are hardly old enough to ex-
pound the Scriptures tho’ you were under the 
tutelage of an authority on such matters like
Mrs. Deborah Grovsener.”
	“I am not exactly an oracle perhaps but my
ideas about women are very exalted ones and
I’m quite sure girls ought to have greater ad-
vantages than they do nowadays.”	
	“O, what would you like then pray tell,
you for instance expect to be a teacher, and
from what you have just been saying possibly
you intend to teach the Scriptures as well?”
	“I may, at any rate I believe in it, and I’m
sure mother can quote more Scripture from
memory, than any minister I have heard, they
have it written down in their sermons, but
mother knows the Bible by heart, and more
than that she is not very well satisfied with
our minister at home, she says his sermons
are dry and cold, she often speaks of the
prophecies of Isaiah and Jeremiah and be-
lieves many of them are yet to be fulfilled,
and wonders that the great divines of the day
don’t see these things as she does.”
	“Hepsie you astonish me, the other day you
wanted to convince me you knew all about
love, and now you are discussing religion and
the Scriptures, what next I wonder?”
	“Next, I suppose I must darn stockings, and
mend gloves, and so forth to get back into your
good graces for I can see you think me very
conceited, though you are too clever to say
so;—it is a good thing you don’t know all I
think, you would want to send me away to
some one who could modify me no doubt.”
	“Never mind Hepsie you will grow older
and wiser in time, and although you can’t go
to college, you can in another year at any
rate go to a Ladies Seminary and finish.”
	And so from time to time the two sisters
talked of the advantages and pursuits of men
and women.  Hannah was conservative and
thought her sister a born radical, and she tried
in her quiet way to make her understand how
impossible of fulfillment many of her theories
were.  But a great change was coming of
which either of the sisters had no fore-shadow-
ing, or premonition.  And Hepsie when she
had heard her mother talk of the Scriptures in
a half-prophetic way, little knew how her
mother’s mind was being wrought upon to ex-
amine the Bible herself, and how by careful
investigation and prayer she had arrived at the 
conclusion that the ministers of the day were
in error.  And here for the present we will 
leave the sisters and go back to the quiet 
village nestled among the hills described in our
opening chapter.

     There came to the good old town of B. on 
a gray November day in the year 1841, two
strangers, evidently travelers as their appear-
ance betokened, and they inquired at the Post
Office where they would be likely to get a hall
to preach in or if it would be possible to get
an opportunity to preach in the village
Church—the postmaster who by the bye was 
the leader of the choir, the singing master of 
the little village, began to wonder as neither
their manner nor their grammar, so to speak
savored of college bred ministers, and he be-
gan plying them, Yankee like with questions.
	“What denomination do you belong to
Methodists I presume, as you do not have the
appearance to me of either Baptists, Presby-
terians or Congregationalists?”		
	Before they had time to answer him he in-
formed them that the Church was occupied by
a Congregationalist and he did not believe
any methodist would be allowed to preach 
in it.
	“Well said one of the strangers, ‘we are not
methodists and we would like to see your

[Column 2]
minister and ask permission to preach in the
pulpit.  We have something to tell the
people, good tidings for them.”
	“What good tidings’ said Uncle Rufus as 
he was called throughout the village, ‘new
doctrine where did you come from and what is 
this you want to tell the people?”
	The strangers hesitated a little, but finally
replied, “the doctrines we preach are the same
as taught in the New Testament by the Savior
and his Apostles, and we have come without
purse or scrip more than a thousand miles to 
preach to the people and we want a place to 
speak in, and we hope to have an audience to
night here in this village.”
	“I’ll go with you to the Reverend Edward
M.— replied Uncle Rufus, “but its not much
use I’m afraid, he’s awful strict regular orthor-
dox, wouldn’t let a methodist come inside his
pulpit, for my part I don’t care much for
religion and I'm not afraid to hear Universa-
lists even.” This with an emphasis as though
Universalists were the most heterodox of all the
denominations.
     A few steps brought them to the minister’s,
door and as Uncle Rufus was with the strange
men, they were invited into the parlor—and
then he remembered that he had never asked
their names nor ascertained where they were
from.  However he was not in the least dis-
concerted and said to the minister “here are
two strangers come to ask permission to preach
in the Church to night.  The Rev. E. M.
turned upon them and without ceremony said.
“Who are you that you come without even
sending me your names and ask such a 
privilege?
	“We are Elders sent to preach the Ever-
lasting Gospel and we are not ashamed of our
names or our profession.”
	“Elders, Baptists are you? “And what new
thing have you to tell? “We are not Baptists
but Missionaries called and ordained by proper
authority.”
	“This ‘said the younger man of the two,” is
Elder Farr and my name is Simmonds and we
are Latter-day Saints.”
	“O, I understand “Mormons,” from Nauvoo
I presume, you cannot preach in my Church,
you believe in the Golden Bible and in Joe
Smith who claims to be a Prophet.”
	The Elders tried to explain about the Book
of Mormon and also that Joseph Smith was a 
true Prophet, but all to no purpose, the minis-
ter was furious, his wife hearing the confusion
came to learn what was the matter and asked
the strangers to be seated, and as if to atone
for the rudeness of her husband made some in-
quiries and appeared interested in their mission.
It was all to no purpose her husband was de-
termined and she suggested that the school-
house would hold quite a number of people,
and they could most likely have the privilege
of holding a meeting there.
     The Elders thanked Mrs. M. for the suggest-
ion and rose to go, but the minister’s anger
had been aroused and he vented his ill-will
by saying. “I don’t want to hear your false
doctrine and shall use my influence against 
your teachings while you remain here in
town.  My wife shall not go to the meeting,
I will not in any way give countenance to
men sent out without means to pay their
way, and I can assure you the people of B.
know better than to be carried away by the
romance of a Golden Bible.”
	The Elders saw how useless it was to ex-
postulate and were anxious to go, and they
were convinced that Mrs. M. was anxious to
hear them, from the interest she had mani-
fested, but after his declaration that his wife
should not go, they could only thank her
for her courtesy, and were glad to leave the
house where such a furore had been raised.
     Uncle Rufus too was glad to get away,

[Column 3]
and was now more determined to aid them
in getting a place to preach in for he was
rather fond of variety and in a sober staid
New England village there was not much 
change in those days and he had begun to
think like some others that their minister
orthodox though he was, did not quite under-
stand the needs of the people.  On the way
as they walked along he asked more ques-
tions, and elicited considerable information,
and became deeply interested in their con-
versation.  He helped them secure the school-
house and managed to spread the news through
the village that two “Mormon” Elders all
the way from Nauvoo were going to preach
and there would be something worth hearing.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


A LAW COLLEGE FOR WOMEN.
	With eleven students Mme. Emily Kempin
has just opened the first law college in the
world for women. Mme. Kempin is an L. L.
D. from the university of Zurich, Switzerland.
She has three bright children and a husband
who is a Presbyterian. Her eyes are blue
and her complexion blonde. She may be a
trifle above the medium height, is of slender
figure and sits erect and well poised in her
straight-backed chair. She has a face of
sweetness and intelligence, and commands
better English vocabulary than most native
born Americans. Her law office is on Broad-
way. Only three women in all Europe have
graduated in law. One is lecturing in the
University of Bologna, Italy, and another the
daughter of a Belgian judge, and her appli-
cation for admission to the bar of her own
country is now under consideration. The third
is this quiet little Mme. Kempin.  
	To familiarize herself with American law
Mme. Kempin applied for admission to the
Columbia college law school. Some of the
trustees were out of town and it was four
months before she was definitely refused.
Meanwhile she had been quietly attending lec-
tures. From Columbia she went to New
York university and here as a mark of court-
esy to the university of Zurich, but with the
distinct understanding that no precedent was
created, was received. Since beginning, an
independent practice she has become counsel
for the Swiss legation in Washington and
superintendent of the New York arbitration
society and says that the idea of opening a law
school came to her only when repeatedly
questioned by ladies owning property who
wanted information about their own business
contracts, about guardianship, wills and
inheritances. “Suppose,” said her husband,
“you lecture to women to qualify them for the
management of their affairs, or the supervision
of their agents.” Somewhat to Mme. Kempin’s
surprise no ladies have yet applied for these
partial or special courses for property or
business women, but eleven young women
desire to become full-fledged lawyers.


Mrs. Mary E. Sanborn Cox, M. D., has
started a semi monthly in Omaha, Neb., called
“Life and Light.”
	The unanimous report of the suffrage
committee of the constitutional convention
contained the following on woman suffrage:
	“The right of citizens of the state of Wyoming to vote
and hold office shall not be denied or abridged on account
of sex.”
	The Cheyenne Tribune, which is standing
manfully for equal rights for women, says,
“This is not strong enough.  The woman
suffrage plank of the Wyoming constitution
should be so worded that there can be no
possible cavil or dispute over the signification
of the word “citizen.”


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


“JOHNY IS PACKING HIS TRUNK.”
TO MARY.
“Johny is packing his trunk as I write”—
Why comes this thrill to my being’s core, 
Why do I read it o’er and o’er,
And why do the tear drops start ?
“Oh I could weep for my first born goes,
Out from the old Home nest tonight.
My God, may their future lives be blest—”
What do I see as your letter I hold.
What does the past to my vision unfold ?
A sweet faced babe in my arms I clasp,
And gaze upon him in joy enrapt,
He soon gained a place in every heart
And grew of that household band a part,
like a ray of light from babe to man
He brought no Sorrow in all the span,
The home was brighter whene’er he came,
Oh will it ever be the Same?
Free of heart and open of hand
He won him friends throughout the land,
And the Bride who goes forth from her old home too
Where a cherished one she lived and grew,
To share with our boy on life’s ocean wide,
The Bark that must weather wind and tide,
To build a New Home where others may dwell,
Where that “Song of the heart,” may in melody swell.
Here in this far off land I raise,
A deep thanksgiving prayer of praise,
To God who kept him through the day,
When evil snares beset his way;
And may His power around him shine,
’Til home and love grow all divine.
Home should be the spot the nearest heaven,
And home ties the dearest our God hath given;
An altar of love in the Desert Wild,
A rest for earth’s weary toil-stained child;
Oh, sacred the light of the Old Home burns.
And often the Memory backward turns,
To seek a balm for some hidden pain
And gather strength for life’s work again.
God bless the Old Homes and the New,
And help to make them pure and true,
A haven sweet of peace and rest,
Of every spot on earth the best.
	S. E. RUSSEL.
Mesa Sept. 1, 1889.


SEPTEMBER.
BY GEORGE ARNOLD.
Sweet is the voice that calls
From babbling waterfalls 
In meadows where the downy seeds are flying,
And soft the breezes blow
And eddying come and go
In faded gardens where the rose is dying.

Among the stubbled corn
The blithe quail pipes at morn,
The merry partridge drums in hidden places,
And glittering insects gleam
Above the reedy stream,
Where busy spiders spin their filmy laces.

At eve cool shadows fall
Across the garden wall,
And on the clustered grapes in purple turning,
And pearly vapors lie
Along the eastern sky,
Where the broad harvest moon is redly burning.

Ah! soon on field and hill
The winds shall whistle chill,
And patriarch swallows call their flocks together,
To fly from frost and snow.
To seek for lands where blow
The fairer blossoms of a balmier weather.
	
The cricket chirps all day,
“Oh, fairest Summer stay!”
The squirrel eyes askance the chestnuts browning;
The wild fowl fly afar
Above the foamy bar,
And hasten southward ere the skies are frowning.


Now comes a fragrant breeze
Through the dark cedar trees, 
And ’round about my temples fondly lingers,
In gentle playfulness
Like to the soft caress
Bestowed in happier days by loving fingers.

Yet, though a sense of grief
Comes with the falling leaf
And memory makes the Summer doubly pleasant,
In all my Autumn dreams
A future Summer gleams
Passing the fairest glories of the present !
	Selected.


LUNCHEON IN THE PINE WOODS.
	Imagine a long and rather narrow ravine
running up hill, between two mountains thickly
covered with pine trees and shrubbery, the
ravine having formerly been the bed of a river
now dry, or if any water only showing itself
now and then in a few trickling drops, where
it escaped from the yellow soil and rocks that,
had all been turned over and washed in placer
mining. I have designated this a ravine but
these places are called in the mining vernacular
“a gulch,” and this particular one was “Gold
Gulch” I think.
	On a lovely afternoon in one of those mellow
Autumn days, when the leaves are just begin-
ning to be tipped with frost, and nature seems
more perfect for the charming variety of color,
and the sky itself looks softer and bluer than
in summer, a gay party of well-dressed ladies
were wending their way up the Gulch in pur-
suit of pleasure. On and on they clambered
over rocks, stumps and fallen trees, helping
each other occasionally and gathering flowers
of foliage by the way. The woods were fra-
grant with pine odors, and the wind among the
trees was sighing and whispering as though in
soft and gentle welcome to the visitors pene-
trating the deep woods far up among the steep
hills, where no human being seemed to have
made himself felt or known. Finally a place
of rest was selected and blankets spread and
hammocks strung up—the squirrels were the
sole live occupants of these wooded hills, no
birds, were seen but here and there we after-
wards discovered traces of the Yellow-Hammer
or Woodpecker.
	These ladies were guests of Mrs. Garrison of
Murray, and she had previously made ready
for the entertainment. Nor far from the spot
chosen as our resting place in the woods though
down in the Gulch below us, a fire had been
lighted and coffee and tea prepared, and the
table spread with fine white linen on boards,
carried up for the purpose.
	The walk had given the guests a good ap-
petite, and the tempting luncheon was very
inviting.  We were soon seated and partaking
of the choice viands and delicacies and compli-
menting the hostess, when it was discovered all
at once there were “thirteen at the table.” The
conversation immediately turned upon the sign
of this disastrous number, and several inter-
esting and extraordinary accounts were related;
it did not seem however to make any serious
impression upon the party for they were as
merry as possible, but when the meal was
finished and the plates sent away, some one
suggested the idea of the experimemt for all to
take hold of hands and rise at once, which was
accordingly agreed to and the ladies joined
hands and in a moment all rose simultaneously.
This may, or may not be a preventive, but we
were out for a good time and did not intend
to have our spirits dampened, recreation of
this kind is sometimes dearly bought, but that
day the fates were propitious and we were soon
reclining again on the steep hillside, bracing
ourselves against stumps or trees and talking
away as fast as possible. Some of the ladies
had brought fancy work, a pretty occupation

[Column 2]
for beautiful hands, but what were the rest to
do to make some display of talent if not of
beauty. Finally it was agreed that each should
contribute something to the general enjoyment
of the party. And each one used her powers
of persuasion to bring out a song or recitation
from some other one, the result was that Mrs.
Woods recited in its proper style, the humorous
piece, “If I’d had a fair show Joe Barker says
he”—this was loudly applauded, and then
came Miss Frances Geeson who recited and
then Miss Daisie gave us a recitation, and so
on, then Mrs. Woods gave us “The Petrified
Fern,” which seemed appropriate to the woods.
The writer propounded a question to the com-
pany, “Who was the greatest woman the world
had ever known?” This brought a variety of
answers as well as facts in favor of the one
named, and therefore awakened thought, some
said Eve, another Isabella, and still another
Joan of Arc, but the majority agreed that
Mary the mother of Jesus must have been the
greatest. Then followed a dissertation upon
woman suffrage, and in the midst of it a swaying
tree, created a scare and the ladies ran in all
directions, but the tree regained its position
and we all came back, though soon after de-
cided to ramble farther up the “gulch;” some
distance from our rendezvous we found a miner’s
cabin not long deserted, there was the rude
bedstead made of green poles fastened into the
logs—and a bed of cedar boughs still fragrant
—logs rounded for pillows and stools sawed
from logs, a frying pan, an old pipe some
newspapers and other odd things, were left be-
hind. In such rude cabins up among the
wooded hills,men find rest from their day’s toil
of digging for gold. Often these miners are
educated and cultivated gentlemen, sometimes
in search of health but more often of wealth,
but dame fortune is fickle and though some
have luck it is the exception only.
	There’s not much more to tell, day light was
fading and we turned our faces homeward,
chatting as we went along as merrily as ever.
It had been a lovely afternoon, and an enter-
taining interview to be remembered with
pleasure, for the ladies who came together on
this happy occasion, had made it a tribute of
respect to the writer, and she recalls each face
at the moment of this writing with sincere ad-
miration and a distinctive appreciation of the
honor.
AUNT EM.


PRAYERFULNESS.
	We are bidden to pray without ceasing and
to continue constant in prayer.  Paul prayed
for “Timothy without ceasing night or day.”
Now how is it possible to pray without ceasing?
We must have three conditions; first, we must
acknowledge a want, and then we must ac-
knowlege God’s power to supply that want,
then comes the appeal to Him to put forth that
power.
	When we have fully learned the lessons of
our countless wants, the effect will pass into
our very being, and will make us gentle to
others and give a certain childlike meekness to
the whole temper.  Then we must have the
knowledge and belief in God’s power to supply
this; and who will dare to deny that this power
can go beyond any thing we conceive, or
feel.
	Ambition, shame, selfishness, or love, can lay
hold of the mind with a firm, unshaken grasp,
and yet you will refuse to believe in prayerful-
ness.
	When some unpleasant, or unholy thought
steals across us, and something we cannot
banish, try a fervent, though it may be unspoken
a prayer; send to our Father in heaven, one
swift but earnest appeal, and we shall find this
unhallowed thought will trouble us no more.
	MAMIE TAYLOR.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.
﻿WOMAN’S EXPONENT.
EMMELINE B. WELLS,	- 	Editor.
	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah. Terms:
ne copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months, 50 cts. No
eduction made for clubs. City papers delivered by mail,
xtra for postage one year, 25 cts.
Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space, one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal discount
o regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, No. 25 E., South Temple Street, second
gate east of Deseret News Office. Business hours from 10 a.m.
to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
	PUBLISHER WOMAN’S EXPONENT,
	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.
	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
Second Class Matter.
SALT LAKE CITY,	-	-	OCTOBER 15, 1889.


THE OCTOBER CONFERENCE.
	The General Conference held during this month
commencing on Friday the 4th, inst. was one of
the most interesting and certainly one of the
largest that has ever convened. Thousands of
people from the several Stakes of Zion, came long
distances, hundreds of miles to attend, and Salt
Lake City and County also made a good represen-
tation in numbers. The people flocked daily
morning and evening in immense crowds. Look-
ing upon the assembled multitude one would not
be likely to conclude that “Mormonism” was
dying out as has been predicted by the outside
world.
	There has never been greater interest mani-
fested by the Latter-day Saints in the teaching
and instruction given, than at the late Conference.
Indeed the Saints seemed so desirous of spiritual
instruction that it was apparent upon their coun-
tenances, as they sat and listened to the words of
life and salvation poured out by the speakers who
addressed them from time to time. It was impos-
sible for all who wished to gain admittance, and
on Sunday afternoon an overflow meeting was
held in the Assembly Hall to accommodate some
of those,who were anxious to attend and also that
more of the Saints might have the privilege of
partaking the Sacrament.
	There were in attendance at this Conference,
Pres. Wilford Woodruff and Pres. George Q.
Cannon, of the First Presidency, and of the
Apostles Pres. Lorenzo Snow, Moses Thatcher,
F. M. Lyman, John Henry Smith, H. J. Grant, and
John W. Taylor, also Daniel H. Wells and John
W. Young. Apostle Franklin D. Richards who
has been for some time suffering from rheuma-
tism was only able to attend and fill his place
among the general authorities on Sunday and
not strong enough to address the congregation.
The morning session on Sunday was one of
special interest to the congregation of the Latter-
day Saints. After the opening exercises usual
in the regular services of the Church,
	PRESIDENT WOODRUFF
said: I will say to this assembly that we purpose
to attend to our businesss matters this morning.
There are quite a number of stakes from which
we have not yet received reports; hence we shall
not present a statistical statement to the Confer-
ence. We purpose this morning to present the
authorities of the Church. President Cannon will
submit them for your action.
	President George Q. Cannon then presented
the authorities to be voted upon by the general
assembly, as follows:
	Willford Woodruff, as Prophet, Seer and Reve-
lator and President of the Church of Jesus Christ
of Latter-day Saints in all the world.
	George Q. Cannon, as First Counselor in the
First Presidency.

[Column 2]
	Joseph F. Smith, as Second Counselor in the
First Presidency.
	Lorenzo Snow, as President of the Twelve
Apostles.
	As members of the Council of Twelve Apostles
—Lorenzo Snow, Franklin D. Richards, Brigham
Young, Moses Thatcher, Francis M. Lyman, John
H. Smith, George Teasdale, Heber J. Grant and
John W. Taylor.
At this point

PRESIDENT WILFORD WOODRUFF,
arose and spoke as follows:
	I wish to say to this assembly of Latter-day Saints
that there are three vacancies in the Quorum of
the Twelve Apostles, in consequence of the or-
ganization of the First Presidency. We have felt
that it is time to fill that quorum now, this con-
ference, and the people should be prepared for
the presenting by the Twelve Apostles of such
names as they may feel by the Spirit of God to
be worthy and proper persons to receive this or-
dination or to occupy this position. These
Apostles are Prophets, Seers and Revelators. I
have confidence in them; I believe they have
power to present such things as would be in ac-
cordance with the will of God. They (the
Apostles) presented to me a list of names. I wish
here to say, and I want it understood, that neither
myself. President George Q. Cannon nor Presi-
dent Joseph F. Smith, who are my Counselors,
presented any of these names. We left it with the
Quorum of the Apostles. I became thoroughly
satisfied that they had upon that list such names
as would be acceptable unto the Lord. We look
those names and made it a matter of prayer, and
the Spirit of the Lord manifested unto me those
whom we should appoint. They have all been
accepted by the Quorum of the Apostles as well
as the Presidency of the Church. I have a rea-
son for making these remarks.
	After President Woodruff had taken his seat,
President Cannon resumed the presentation of the
authorities, submitting the names of the follow-
ing three brethren for appointment to the Apostle-
ship, to fill the three vacancies in the Quorum of
the Twelve before referred to:
	Mariner W. Merrill, Anton H. Lund, Abraham
H. Cannon.
	Counselors to the Twelve Apostles—John W.
Young and Daniel H. Wells.
	The Counselors in the First Presidency and the
Twelve Apostles, with their Counselors, as
Prophets, Seers, and Revelators.
	Patriarch to the Church: John Smith.
	First Seven Presidents of the Seventies: Henry
Herriman, Jacob Gates, Seymour B. Young, C. D.
Fjeldsted, John Morgan and B. H. Roberts.
	Wm. B. Preston as Presiding Bishop, with
Robert T. Burton as his Firstand John R. Winder
as his Second Counselor.
	Franklin D. Richards as Church Historian and
General Church Recorder.
	John Jaques as Assistant Church Historian and
General Church Recorder.
	As the Church Board of Education: Wilford
Woodruff, Lorenzo Snow, George Q. Cannon,
Karl G. Maeser, Willard Young, George W.
Thatcher, Amos Howe, Anton H. Lund, James
Sharp.
	Joseph Don Carlos Young, as General Church
Architect.
	John Nicholson, as Clerk of the Conference.
	The vote upon each of the persons named for
the positions specified was unanimous.


EDITORIAL NOTES.
	Brother Graves of Provo, Supt. of Utah County
Silk Association, wants to hear of all those who
wish to go into the silk raising either in Utah or
adjacent.  He would like such persons as desire
to interest themselves practically in seri-culture

[Column 2]
﻿to communicate with him by writing. Address
Daniel Graves, Provo, Utah C. Utah.
	Mrs. M. E. Vanschooven of this City who has
been engaged in medical studies and practice for
some years past, and has become so well and
favorably known in that department, has gone
East to finish her studies in medicine and surgery
in order to graduate as a regular M. D. Mrs. Van-
schooven has been at college in Ann Arbor
previously for some time, but will now remain
permanently until she has finished a thorough
course of medical training in the college at Ann
Arbor, Michigan. She left the city in September
and will not return until June of next year. As
Mrs. Van has made herself quite helpful to the
people here she will be greatly missed by a 
wide circle of friends and patrons. Dr. Pratt will
have charge of Mrs. Vanschooven’s patients in
her absence. Her address is No. 6, Church Street,
Ann Arbor, Michigan. 
Mrs. Zina D. H. Young has received a very
pleasant letter recently from Wm. Cox Allen M.
D. a resident of Ft. Mc’Leod, Canada, in which
he expresses himself much pleased with the ac-
quaintance of Mr. and Mrs. Card and family and
were at the time of writing his guests; and he
also mentions his great regret in not meeting
Mrs. Young when she visited her daughter last
year and politely invites her to come again, when
he hopes to have the honor of her acquaintance
not only at the residence of her daughter, but to
entertain them all in his own home. Mrs. Zina Y.
Card speaks of Dr. Allen in a letter to her mother
as one of the honorable men of the earth, ex-
tremely kind to our people, and quite interested
in the principles of the Gospel; she describes him
as elderly with snow white hair and as resembl-
ing the late President Taylor. 
The inaugural meeting after the summer vaca-
tion of the Y. L. M. I. A. of the 17th ward in this
city was held at the residence of Mrs. M. Y.
Dougall, Thursday evening September 19th, Mrs.
Julia C. Howe presiding. Mrs. Dougall’s large
and commodious parlors were well filled and the
exercises were of a most pleasing character. The
roll call was responded to with a motto or verse,
and after singing, prayer was offered by Dr.
Maggie C. Shipp. The exercises were so diversi-
fied and arranged as to be vastly entertaining
instead of a sameness as is frequently, almost un-
avoidably the case. There are some very talented
young ladies in this Association and they combine
their efforts on such occasions to make a success. 
Their President Mrs. Howe has taken unlimited
pains to develop the spiritual talent and gifts of
the girls over whom she has presided with un-
common tact and dignity. There were excellently
written articles on religious subjects and a corres-
pondence between two young girls Miss Nettie
Alder and Miss Lucy Smith essays Miss Ella
Dallas and other young ladies whose names are
not known to the writer, that were specially choice;
treating upon topics that few young women would
have selected much less been able to handle, yet
these girls discussed the grave questions in a very
able manner, and certainly deserve the commen-
dation of those who had the pleasure of listening.
A song or rather a hymn was rendered in a most 
effective style and particularly good voice by Miss
Viola Pratt there was telling instrumental music
on the piano by Miss Margie Dwyer, and later in
the evening a duet by Misses M. E. and W. C. Pratt.
Brief remarks were also made by several of the
invited visitors, Sister M. A. Freeze, Nellie Cole-
brook, Mary P. Young, Elder Junius F. Wells,
Elder Noel, W. B. Dougal and Sister B. W. 
Smith, R. B. Pratt, S. M. Kimball, E. B. Wells,
and Zina D. H. Young. The evening was in very
deed a most profitable one and many valuable
suggestions were made both by the exercises and
the speakers. After reading of programme sing-


ing and benediction, meeting adjourned and the
company were invited to partake of ice cream and
other refreshments.  There seemed nothing lack-
ing to render the evening wholly enjoyable to all
present.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


A HAPPY OCCASION.
	At the residence of Mrs. Libbie R. Pratt in the
17th, Ward, in this city there was a joyful meeting
of Sisters in the faith and fellowship, to celebrate
the birthday anniversary of the venerable mother
in Israel, Mrs. Sarah D. Rich, widow of the late
Apostle Charles C. Rich, who on that day reached
the age of 75 years.  Her daughter Sarah Jane
Miller was present and also Ben Rich from Ogden,
and Mrs. Pratt at whose residence the party met is
also a daughter of the respected lady in whose
honor they had convened together.
	There were present of the sisters whose names
are familiar in Zion for zeal in good works, Aunt
Presendia L. Kimball, and her sister Pres. Z. D. H.
Young, Sisters Mary Ann M. Pratt, Adelia Ann
B. Pratt, Marion R. Pratt, Margaret Merrill, Sarah
M. Young, Lydia Y. Merrill, Ella Merrill, also
Sisters Jane Taylor and Mary Ann Taylor and
others. Sisters Amanda G. Kimball, Harriet S
Kimball, Julia L. Raleigh, Nebecher, Brown,
Mary Bawton, Winegar and daughter. All
the sisters named were widows but two, and
twelve of these were residents of Nauvoo, and
a more self-reliant and honorable assemblage of
ladies could not have met together.  Sister
Rich has been a member of the Church 54 years
and is the last one of her father’s family remain-
ing.  She was recomended four times by different
persons to be the wife of Apostle Rich before they
saw each other, and became engaged to him by
correspondence.  She accepted the law of celestial
marriage and by mutual consent she and her
husband entered practically upon that principle
which will bring her great joy in the Kingdom of
heaven.
	The afternoon was spent in pleasant conversa-
tion and partaking of the bounties provided by
willing hands.
	The evening was devoted to religious exercises,
and the gifts and blessings of the gospel were
made manifest, that the Savior promised to all
who would receive His truthful message and walk
in the light of the everlasting gospel.
	Sister Rich had been failing in health
but the event revived her spirits and made her feel
that she was not forgotten.
	The EXPONENT adds congratulations, wishing
her days to be full of peace and joy and her en-
trance into the celestial kingdom glorious beyond
expression.


THE YOUNG WONAN’S JOURNAL.
	We have received the initial number of this new
magazine, published in the interests of the young
people’s Associations, and also for the benefit of
all the young women of Zion. The work is very
neat in appearance and printed on good paper in
clear type, and contains 32 pages of reading mat-
ter.  It is divided into departments, first Literary,
second, Our Girls, third, House and Home, fourth
Dress, fifth Health and Hygiene, this last depart-
ment is edited by Romania B. Pratt, M.D., who is
thoroughly capable of undertaking work of this
kind both by education and experience.
	The October number of the journal is full of in-
teresting matter in its several departments; the
literary articles are from the pens of able writers
who are well-known to the reading public in Utah.
The Hymn by Ruby Lamont, that opens this num-
ber is a gem, “Bereavement,” a poem by Josephine
Spencer is touchingly beautiful in sentiment,
“Longing” by Lu Dalton is a poem of real merit
as all her productions are, and “A Voice From


The Daughters Of Zion,” by Hope is well suited
to the advent of the journal and significant of its
mission. “Baby’s Brass Nickle” by Lula must
not pass unnoticed for Lula is the children’s
writer and special advocate, some of her best
poetical efforts have been put forth to help and to
amuse and teach principle to the little ones in
Zion.  The stories will doubtless please the young
people, we have not read them and therefore can
only judge them from our knowledge of the
writers and the themes. “Aunt Polly’s Letter,” a
description of the old home is decidedly well-
written, “Our Dumb Animals,” No. 1. by Zina B.
Crocheron is an effort in a somewhat new direc-
tion by our girls, and as it is a prolific subject and
one not much treated upon in our local papers,
it will probably be made amusing and instruc-
tive.  The house and dress department will doubt-
less serve the purpose for which intended, as it is
a clear field in this line.
	The editor, Mrs. Susa Young Gates, starts out
with everything favorable to a successful enter-
prise, and as she loves the work she has under-
taken, it will be comparatively easy because she
will put her heart in it, and with the cooperation
of the young ladies it ought to succeed finan-
cially.  It is the organ of the Young Ladies
Mutual Improvement Associations, and will there-
fore be an avenue whereby many questions may
by asked and answered, this making it specially
helpful to the organized work; the essays and
manuscript papers have a place assigned them in
the journal, and they will no doubt improve this
opportunity to discuss social and religious ques-
tions and subjects.  There is no danger of too
much cultivation mentally, morally and spiritually
and while advocating the development of the
mind and heart we should not forget physical
culture either.  We heartily wish the new journal
success in the field of literature.  It is published
at the Juvenile Instructor Office in this city.
Price of subscription, $2.00 per year.


[Column 1]
﻿WOMAN’S SUFFRAGE.
WRITTEN FOR AND READ BEFORE THE W. S. A.
		OF JUAB COUNTY.
	Having enrolled my name as a member of the
Suffrage Association, and believeing that when
we become members of any association it is our
duty to respond to every call, and to do our ut-
most to make it a success, I desire not simply to
be a member but a worker in this noble cause we
have espoused. I believe in the physical, moral,
intellectual, spiritual and political education of wo-
man. She should have the privilege of pursuing
the same studies as her brother, that she may be a
companion to him and be able to converse intelli-
gently on any subject that interests him. If wo-
man’s whole time is occupied in domestic duties,
and she takes no time to improve her mind or in-
crease her intelligence, how can she impart to her
children that intelligence which will make them
men and women of renown in their own day and
time?
	Each generation should be brighter and better
in every respect than the one that preceded it, but
how can this  be possible unless women are edu-
cated, and liberated from the bondage they are
under? Woman cannot impart to her children
lofty aspirations, love of freedom and of country,
she can not produce patriots, unless she breathes
the air of freedom and has the love of country
burning in her bosom.
	The Fathers of our country are praised and
honored by posterity for the part they took in
obtaining freedom, and for the hardships they en-
dured in colonizing a new country. But did we
not have mothers of our country who should not
be forgotten. They too, are entitled to our homage,
for did they not endure the sufferings and priva-

[Column 2]
tions as heroically as our Fathers did? Did they
not prove their loyalty and patriotism in laying all
upon the altar and sacrificing husbands, sons and
brothers in defense of their country?
	Strange that when that country for which wo-
man sacrificed and suffered, was secured from
tyranny and bondage, and the Constitution framed
which is the best and most perfect of any on
earth, that her rights should be ignored and she
have no voice in the making of the laws or of
electing the law-makers. Stranger still that while
thousands of precious lives were lost, and millions
of money expended in emancipating the negros,
the mothers, wives and daughters of those patri-
otic soldiers were, now are, in political bondage.
Is not taxation without representation as unjust
and oppressive now as it was in the days of the
Revolution? I think so, yet women are suffering
from this very cause today. Woman is amenable
to the law and if she breaks a law she is punished
the same as man is. If she holds property she is
taxed, yet she has no voice in saying who shall
handle that money or how it shall be expended.
	Who is more interested in the education of
children than their mothers, but mothers can-
not vote for school elections even, except in a few
of the states where women have secured this
privilege by agitation and perseverance, and
therefore they can not say who shall educate their
children.
	If women had the Franchise they could wield a
power for good that would not only affect them-
selves and the present generation but would effect
millions yet unborn. If they were united they
could stop the spread of intemperance, by pro-
hibition the sale of that dreadful curse to man-
kind, Alcohol. Who suffers more than women
from the effects of Alcohol? Men drink it and
women take the consequences. If women voted
they could raise the wages of working women who
now by the thousands are struggling for an ex-
istence on starvation wages, and many go to their
destruction to escape a life of misery and want.
Shall we sit supinely down because our lot has
fallen in better places than those just described,
and say we don’t believe in Woman’s rights, we
have all the rights we want”—when there is so
much suffering, and so much to be done in this
world of ours? If we are true women, if we
have all the rights we want, we will not rest satis-
fied until others who are not so fortunate as we
are, shall have their rights secured to them. We
should be like Mrs. Fry whose Philanthrophy
caused many of her sex to reform and lead better
lives, by her visiting the prisons and establishing
schools for the depraved unruly inmates, who
blessed her name for her goodness. Can not we
follow her noble example, and do something to
benefit our sex? Woman should be the friend of
woman in every condition and position in life.
	I claim that a woman who does the same work
as a man, if she does it as well and works as many
hours, should have the same wages that he has.
But how is it today in our own loved Territory,
and it is much better here than it is in other parts
of our country, a common laboring man receives
$1.50 per day, while his sister who works as long
and just as hard, gets 50cts. a day, just a third of
what her brother gets, and why? Simply because
she is a woman, and has not been educated to
value her time and labor, and to demand for them
a just remuneration as he has. Numerous cases
might be mentioned with which we are all
familiar, where women school teachers and clerks
in stores, who spend as many hours in as faithful
labor, and are as well qualified for the positions
as the men who perform the same kind of labor,
who only receive a third or perhaps in some in-
stances half as much salary as men do. I have a
friend, a woman, who is a good efficient school
teacher, who loves her work and devotes a great
deal of time, besides her school hours, that her
scholars might advance more rapidly, who is as


well qualified, and as capable a teacher as her
husband, who is also a teacher, but the trustees, all
being men, will not pay her half as much as they
do him, while her husband says she works harder
than he does and is just as capable of managing a
school as he is. How unjust! Is it not time that
women awake from the lethargy and indifference
that binds them, and employ every legitimate
means within their power to emancipate their sex.
May our association prove a success in accom-
plishing the ends for which it was organized.
	M. E. TEASDALE.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.﻿


[Column 1]

﻿RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE.

	The first Semi Annual Conference of the
Relief Society was held in the Salt Lake
Assembly Hall in this City on Monday Oct. 7,
1889 commencing at ten a. m. Mrs. Zina D.
H. Young presiding. There was a good atten-
dance, the hall being pretty well filled. Meet-
ing opened by singing the hymn beginning

"Let us pray gladly pray" etc.

Prayer was offered by Mrs. S. M. Kimball
Continued with singing.

"Now let us rejoice in the day of salvation"

	The secretary then presented the names of
the officers of the Central Board as follows
and they were unamimously sustained.
	President Zina D. H. Young,First Counselor
Jane S. Richards, Second Counselor Bathsheba
W. Smith, Secretary Sarah M. Kimball, Ass't.
Sec. Romania B. Pratt, Cor. Sec. Emmeline
B. Wells, Treasurer M. Isabella Horne.
	The names of the Stake Presidents of the
Relief Society were then read and they were
sustained by vote of the Conference.
	An address of welcome was made by the
President in which she invoked the blessing of
heaven upon all the congregation and greeted
them most cordially, gave words of encourage-
ment, and told them she felt herself surrounded
by Eves yea even the queens of this world and
believed that the works and labors which they
would perform, would entitle them to occupy
such positions. Welcomed one and all, rejoiced
in the Gospel and the blessings and privileges
it brought to the people, spoke eloquently of
the children of the Saints, wished the Stake
Presidents to represent the condition of the
Society in each Stake.
	Pres. Harriet A. Snow of Utah, Box
Elder, Stake said she had visited the most
remote parts of the Stake, and felt they were
as near to her heart as the others; at Park
Valley the meetings had been postponed on
account of the President's having to attend
upon the sick so much, but the sisters were as
zealous and as earnest there as in other places;
she enjoyed the meeting there very much.
Spoke of her interest in storing wheat, and
gave an excellent report of the sister's labors.
	Pres. Jane S. Richards, "I can say some good
things for Weber Co. The sisters enjoy a good
degree of the Holy Spirit. We, myself and
Counselors visit around the Stake regularly;
the local sisters rise up three and four at once
sometimes, they are so full of the spirit and of
testimony; we advise meeting together often
and that they read the address of Sister Zina,
which was given here at our last Conference
and published for our benefit, it contains the
instruction that is needed; read it over and it
will seem new and good, we advocate the
holding of Quarterly Conferences in the
various stakes, and of saving grain and the
duties of taking care of the sick and needy,
and charity to the erring, and lifting up those
who are weak and bowed down in spirit; in
doing this we shall be blest, and rejoice, and
our faith will be renewed."
	Pres. Susan Grant, Davis Stake, had good
Counselors that were a great help and blessing
to her, encouraged the sisters to come to meet-

[Column 2]

ing and partake of the good spirit, rejoiced in
the Gospel and felt happy in the performance
of duty from day to day.
	Pres. Mary John, Utah Stake, felt it a great
honor to be one of the Relief Society and
take an active part in this great work in her
humble way; had visited all the branches but
two, there were twenty-two in all; Sister Zina
had been with them in visiting, spoke of the
Woman's Exponent urging the sisters to take
it, and read it, that they might be posted upon
what was being done here and elsewhere, it
would do them good, felt happy in the duties
of her calling and wished to be faithful.
	Mrs. Anna Woodbury Counselor to Pres.
Ivins, St George Stake, spoke of the scattered
condition of the Relief Society and the long
distances the sisters must travel to visit each
branch organization; and the difficulties to be
encountered in going to the fartherest places.
Yet they made a practise of visiting all around
once a year. She felt to shed tears of joy
when young men would rise up and bear
testimony of the truth of the Latter-day work;
felt much interested in the young people,
spoke of the silk culture and what had been
accomplished by the sisters there; thought St.
George was the home of the mulberry, a
gentleman who had been accustomed to
countries where silk was an industry had re-
marked that the climate was specially adapted
to its culture, she and some other sisters had
perservered in the labor and had made some
money by sending the cocoons to Washington
Some of the sisters there had received
though they had only received 90cts. per lb.
nineteen dollars, that was something, and she
believed that success might yet result through
diligence and perseverance in the work.
	Sister Zina; made some remarks upon silk,
her belief as to its becoming a source of
revenue, and spoke of the great love she had
for the sisters, thought the angels were around
about us, and that those who had been our
associates in these labors heretofore might per-
haps meet with us; hoped we would have zeal ac-
cording to knowledge, thought the sisters
should take the EXPONENT and read it, and
interest themselves on the questions of the day,
and become familiar with the spirit of the times
and what was transpiring in the world,
	Dr. Pratt then read a part of the minutes of
the first organization of the Relief Society in
Nauvoo.
	Pres. Mary Pitchforth, Juab Stake, spoke
of the Relief Society organization and how
she had seen it in a vision many years ago,
and she realized the fulfillment of it to-day;
thought when the sisters were healed, as she
knew of many instances, where they had
been instantly healed, that God should have
the glory instead of the Doctor. Spoke kindly
of the teachers in their stake, and the dili-
gence and faith they manifested in visiting
every month even in the winter time to look after the
needy., Related a dream she had of Sister
Eliza she came to the house and wanted to go to
the meeting with her at home in Nephi after
some preliminaries before starting for the meet-
ing Sister Eliza had given her some instruct-
ions what to teach—first of all the judgments
of God; and mothers teach your children to
eat and drink only those things that will make
their bodies pure—and preserve them from
disease and evil influences, only the Lord can
hear our prayers and save us from the contam-
inating influences that will assuredly come.
	Counselor Bathsheba W. Smith felt almost as
if she could shout Hosanna she rejoiced in hear-
ing the words of Joseph the prophet that had
been read, felt blessed in the Society and in all
the meetings of the Saints; "take pains sisters
to search out the needy and the sick, we know
the prayer of faith will heal the sick, and we
will give our Father in heaven the glroy."
	Pres. Jane E. Walton, San Juan Stake had

[Column 3]

come 500 miles to attend the Conference said
her intention was when she went home to visit
the Mancos and Burnham wards, spoke of the
disadvantages under which the sisters labored
in that Stake because of the great distances to
be traversed to come together.
	Sister Kimball read from the Relief Society
record concerning the angels and said Sister
Zina's remarks on that subject had brought that
saying of the prophet's to her mind.
	Lula G. Richards read a poem written for
the occasion.

WOMAN'S THOUGHT AND WOMAN'S WORK.

Written for the Relief Society Conference, Oct. 7. 1889.
	When inspiration from the worlds on high,
	Moves in the hearts of wise and gifted men,
	They bring forth thoughts and deeds that never die,
	Slumber they may, at times, but by-and-bye,
	With force and power renewed they wake again.

	Nor sons alone our Father thus inspires,
	His daughters may the rich communion share;
	When woman's heart is filled with good desires,
	And, for the path of light, she too enquires,
	God always hears her pure and humble prayer.

	Mark how Rebecca with her mother-heart
	Asked God, "If it is so, why am I thus?"
	The knowledge which she sought, God did impart,
	She felt its truth, which, doubtless, made her start,
	Oh! what a lesson, sisters, this should be to us!

	We fly to doctors when we chance to think,
	"There's something wrong, I wonder what it is!"
	To pay a five or ten we do not shrink,
	For doctors' wise opinion, scowl and wink—
	Is God's advice so cheap we trust not His?

	Enough of this; that in this latter time,
	God to his handmaids speaks we surely know;
	Thousands of us, from many a land and clime,
	Have heard—and felt it was God's words sublime—
	Given through our prophet poetess, our E. R. Snow.

	Nor she alone, our loved and honored Pheobe,
	And (also gone,) our patient, kind Marinda,
	Spake often thus, inspired and sacred truths;
	And with us still, dear Zina and Bathsheba,
	Our ever faithful and devout Presendia,
	How their sweet words the drooping spirit soothes!

	And thousands more, let not one heart feel slighted,
	We all may work, Christ teaches where and how:
	Let every lamp be filled, and trimmed and lighted,
	To Father's joyons feast we're all invited,
	And almost taste the good things, even now.

	But here, we reach what I first thought to mention,
	A holy sample, yea, a sacred symbol;
	That, through our Father's love and condescension,
	This grand Relief Society first held convention,
	In the bright brain of Sister Sarah M. Kimball.

	The thought was her's, God gave it; and she ran,
	As duty bade to the Prophet Joseph Smith;
	Broached unto him the subject of her plan,
	That flash of light was truth, from thence began,
	Our organizations and our work forthwith.

	"Do good," the Prophet said, "relieve the poor,
	Comfort the sorrowing, bless each other oft,
	Save souls, teach woman to be chaste and pure,
	That crowns of righteousness all may secure,
	Encourage those bowed down to look aloft.

	Wash and anoint the sick, beneath your hands,
	Those not to death appointed, shall revive;
	Let no man say you nay, what God commands,
	The pure and humble spirit understands,
	And through it oft, the dead are made alive.

	Never, without the Sisters' Organization,
	Will Christ's true Church be organized in full;
	It tends to peace, to union and salvation,
	Cannot degrade, but brings true elevation.
	Working against those pow'rs which downward pull."

	Thus spake the Prophet, though a woman's thought
	Had been the impetus to this great work;
	Our noble Sarah all these years hath taught,
	Is with us still, "Behold what God hath wrought!"
	Think on, work on, my Sisters, never shirk!


[Column 1]

Sister Sarah M. Kimball explained after
the poem had been read that in sentiment it
was true, but that she had suggested the or-
ganization of a benevolent society to some
ladies who had met by invitation, at her home
in Nauvoo. A committee was appointed to
draft constitution and by-laws, and when these
were subsequently shown to the Prophet
Joseph, he said he had something better for
the sisters and called a meeting and organized
the Relief Society.
	Meeting adjourned until seven in the eve-
ning singing,

"Lord dismiss us with our blessing''

	Brother Graves of Provo gave some notices
concerning silk etc. Benediction by Sister
Judith Higbee.

CASSIA STAKE.

	The Quarterly Conference of the Relief
Society of Cassia Stake was held at Oakley,
Sept. 20, 1889.
	Pres. Louisa Haight presided; her
Counselors were also present with presidents
of the several branches: of the brethren, M.
Pickett counselor to Stake President; R.
Wilson, Patriarch, and others; also Pres. H.
D. Haight at afternoon session.
	The opening exercises were followed by
verbal reports of the several branches by res-
pective presidents, showing the members of
each to be feeling interested in their work and
doing as well as inconvenient circumstances
would admit.
	President Haight and her Counselors Sisters
Tuttle and Wilson, in turn addressed the
Conference giving much timely instruction;
were glad to hear of the interest taken by the
members, their duties were as urgent as those
of the officers; we may as well step down and
out if we do not take an interest in this work;
we must throw off timidity and put on the
armor of faith; must put away our work
when time comes for us to attend to some duty
in the Church, the Lord's work first our own
afterwards; must watch over our children
every day and teach principles of the Gospel.
	Sister Melissa Homer bore her testimony;
said she was grateful to our Heavenly Father
for having given the Gospel to the earth;
rejoiced to be numbered with His Saints; we
need to be taught every day that we may be
prepared for his coming.
	Sister Annie Bird spoke at some length ex-
horting the sisters to appreciate the day in
which they lived; to be diligent and improve
that they may have no wasted time to account
for; to seek after the pleasures of eternity for
those of this life are fleeting; to be worthy of
a future inheritance of which no power could
rob them.
	The afternoon session of the Conference was
turned into a testimony meeting.
	President H. D. Haight was the first to
address the meeting, spoke of his recent at-
tendance at the dedication of the Bear Lake
Stake house; of the strong testimonies of some
of the leading brethren there: This was a day
of sifting, the weak would fall by the way:
must do our duty to day, not wait for any set
time as a New Year etc., many who bear
faithful testimonies and have good desires,
trifle with the same and act contrary to them.
	Brother Robert Wilson, spoke at some
length; said the time was near when it would
be all the saints could do with a testimony
alive in their hearts to stand faithful; it would
take all their faith, and good works, to endure
what they would have to pass through; they
must follow in the footsteps of the servants of
God who had faced death for the Gospel's
sake; spoke of the happiness that would be
brought about by a perfect unity, such as made
Jesus and the Father one.

[Column 2]

	Sister Adelia Brim said "the still small
voice" within bore testimony to her of this
work.
	Brother J. G. Smith said like the Apostle
Paul, he was not ashamed of the Gospel and
spoke at length on its principles and beauties.
	Brother M. Pickett spoke of the revelation
given to the Prophet Joseph concerning the
sisters duties in expounding and teaching
principles of the Gospel; said if any were
needing financial help it was better if possible
to give them employment; assist them to help
themselves instead of making them dependent
objects of Charity. Testimonies were borne by
Sisters Tanner, McBride, Grant and Craner.
Also Bro. John L. Smith. Stake Authorities
of the Society were presented and sustained by
the Conference which, was then adjourned for
three months.
		LOUISA PICKETT, Sec.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


QUEEN’S COLLEGE, BELFAST.

	THE MEDICAL CLASSES OPENTO LADIES.
—The Northern Whig announces: That a
significant and important step has been re-
solved upon in the Queen's College. It ap-
pears that for some time the College author-
ities have had before them an application from
a number of ladies who desire to enter the
medical classes with a view to studying for
medical degrees. Hitherto these classes have
been closed against them, and consequently
women who desired such training had to go
elsewhere. After due deliberation, the appli-
cation of these ladies has been granted. A
meeting of the Medical Faculty of the College
held to consider the matter unanimously re-
solved upon acceding to the request. When 
the classes re-open, therefore, at the close of the
long vacation, we may expect to see mingling
with the usual medical students a new infusion
of the members of the softer sex, bent on initi-
ation into the mysteries of the healing art. By
and by, we have no doubt, we shall have in
Belfast, and over the province, a number of 
worthy compeers of such medical ladies as Dr.
Sophia Jex-Blake, Dr. Garret, Anderson, Dr. 
Edith Pechey, and numerous others who have
attained distinction in the profession. The ques-
tion of admission to the classes having been tested
and decided in favor of the applicants, we hear
that they will be joined in their studies next
session by other young ladies, some of whom
belong to well-kown Belfast families. In
coming to the decision which we have men-
tioned the College authorities have shown their
desire to keep abreast of the educational
necessities of the province. In other places
ladies who have gained the right to append
M. D. to their names have been most success-
ful in practice. Especially in the treatment of
the diseases of women and children, their
services have proved most acceptable in many
places, and just at present the requirements of
that splendid Society which owes its existence
to a noble daughter of our own province—the
Association for Supplying Female Medical
Aid to the Women of India, founded as we all
know, a few years since by the Marchioness of
Dufferin—demanded the services of as many
properly trained medical women as can be ob-
tained. The same is true of the various
Zenana Mission schemes. It is well known
that Hindoo women are not allowed to be 
treated by medical men, and, as the Mar-
chioness of Dufferin states in an excellent
article which appeared some years ago in the
Asiatic Quarterly Review, "They never do ex-
cept in the last extremity, when the doctor so
admitted to a Zenana enters with his head in a
bag, or remains outside the purdah, feeling his
patient's pulse, but unable to make any of the
necessary examinations.” Not to speak there-
fore, of the field which is undoubtedly opening
[column 2]
more and more at home to ladies trained to 
pursue medicine as a profession, the action of
our Belfast Queen's College will now open to
the women of the North of Ireland an avenue
at their own door by which they will be able to
qualify themselves for the service of their sex
in India in connection with such beneficent in-
stitutions as we have mentioned. The Medical
School of Belfast College has long since ob-
tained just celebrity, and we have no doubt
that this new departure which it has made
will commend itself to public approval and 
add to its usefulness and probably also to its
prestige. Other distinguished seats of learning
such as the University of Paris and the London
University, have opened the doors of their
medical class-rooms to women. In the Royal
University of Ireland they are eligible for the 
medical degrees and other honors, and, now
that a local demand has arisen for their ad-
mission into our Queen's College, the author-
ities were undoubtedly right in taking the
action to which we refer. We understand that
the Rev. Dr. Hamilton, the recently appointed 
president of the College, has manifested much
interest in the subject, and was strongly in
favor of the step which has been very properly 
taken.
				Englishwoman's Review.


WESTMINSTER ABBEY.

[Concluded.]

WESTMINSTER PALACE.

	The location of this building, which no
longer exists, was opposite the present houses
of parliament. This palace was occupied by
the kings from Saxon times until Henry VIII
went to Whitehall. It was in this palace that
Edward the Confessor entertained William,
Duke of Normandy. That friendly visit was
the beginning of the proceedings which were
to terminate in the conquest of England.
Within those walls sat the house of commons
from 1547 to 1834. There was heard the
eloquence of Chatham,Fox,Grattan,Pitt,Burke,
and Canning—a remarkable galaxy of orators
truly! Westminster palace has been a great
theater of action. The infamous "star
chamber" was also in the building. The
chamber, built by Henry VIII, got its name
from the gilded stars on the ceiling. In that
place the prosecutor and judge were con-
founded. Every punishment, except death,
could be inflicted—imprisonment, pillory,
branding and whipping. It was in the star
chamber that William, Bishop of Lincoln, was
fined five thousand pounds for calling Laud
"The Great Leviathan." Here we have a clear
picture of the tyranny of the time. The bodies
of Earl Chatham and his son William Pitt lay
in state in this palace, as likewise that of Mrs.
Claypole, Cromwell's favorite daughter.
	The princes' chamber in the palace was
where the great Chatham died. The well
known picture of Copley has made the occa-
sion familiar to us. It was in the cellar of this
building that Guy Fawkes made his dastardly
attempt to blow up the structure, November 5,
1605. This edifice was burned October 16,
1834.
	We shall here refer to the clock tower of the
houses of parliament. It is probably unex-
celled in magnificence in the world, and occu-
pies nearly the same site as the old tower of
Edward I, which  contained the famous bell
called the "Old Tom." It is reported that a
man's life was once saved by the clock's strik-
ing thirteen times at midnight. The man was
endeavoring to prove an alibi, and it was by the
unusual circumstance of the clock's striking
thirteen that he was enabled to do so; for had
he committed the crime of which he was ac


cused he must have been far away from the
sound of the clock.

		WESTMINSTER HALL.
	This famous place had its location near the
houses of parliament.  Perhaps no place in
England is more replete in historical remi-
niscence than is Westminster hall.  Many im-
portant state trials as well as banquets took
place there.  To take the former in order, we
have first the famous one of Charles I.  Then
come the trial and acquittal of the seven
bishops, in the reign of James II.  In this
place Lord Lovat, the wicked Lord Byron, in
1765, and Warren Hastings, in 1768, were
tried.  The trial of Warren Hastings is known
to everybody in the brilliant pages of Macaulay.
In this grand hall coronation banquets took
place, from the time of William Rufus, for
whom it was named, to that of George IV. For
several centuries it was the seat of the courts,
and until recently, when a building of great
extent was erected for the purpose, near Temple
Bar.
	It will be remembered that a few years ago
Westminster hall was destroyed by dynamite.
Outside of this hall hung the decapitated heads
of Cromwell, Ireton, and Bradshaw, after the
restoration.  Hare informs us that the head of
Cromwell is still in existence, and is in the
possession of a person by the name of William-
son, at Seven Oaks, Kent.  This is the only
instance where an embalmed head has been
decapitated.  The story concerning it is as
follows:  One wintry night, as the sentry was
pacing backward and forward in front of the
building, the head fell down before him.  He
picked it up, hid it under his coat, and after-
ward sold it.  On his death-bed he confessed
what he had done.  After several shiftings
about, it reached the gentleman above men-
tioned.  And this is the head of that great man
who made the world tremble.

To what base uses we may return, Horatio!
Imperial Caesar, dead and turned to clay,
Might stop a hole to keep the wind away.

	Thus we come to the end of that long
chapter, Westminster abbey.
					Hearth and Hall.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

NOTES AND NEWS.

	Mrs. Elizabeth Lyle Saxon has "proved up"
on her claim at Park, W. T.
	Another woman camposer has made her
mark—Mme. Helen Manletell, whose opera,
"Florence," has just been brought out with
fair success at the Royal Theatre, Stockholm
	The will of S. S. Cox, dated 1888, in a few
brief lines gives all the property he possessed
to his wife, who is made sole executrix and not
required to give bonds. A good example.
	Miss Pheobe Couzins, who has been a long
time out of the field on account of ill health,
seems likely, before many months are past, to
resume her labors for woman's ballot and the
temperance reform.
	"In Wyoming, after twenty years' experience
full woman suffrage is incorporated in the
State Constitution by a five-sixths majority, and
expressly guaranteed in the bill of rights by a
unanimous vote."
	Frances E. Willard celebrated her 50th
birthday September. 28. Her years have
been very useful ones. A great multitude of
people are grateful for her good work. They
will wish her, as we do, many happy returns of
the day.
	"Miss Helen Blackburn, who has edited the
Englishwoman's Review during the illness of its
late editor, the lamented Caroline A. Biggs,

[Column 2]

has now become permanent editor. Miss
Blackburn is the compiler of the English
"Women's Suffrage Calendar."
	Chief-Justice Greene, of Washington Terri-
tory, said several years ago: "The opponents
of woman suffrage in this Territory are found
allied with a solid phalanx of gamblers, pros-
titutes, pimps, and drunkard-makers—a
phalanx composed of all in each of those
classes who know the interest of the class and
vote according to it."
	The Chicago Inter-Ocean, has inaugurated a
Youth's Department. Mrs. Frances Hodgson
Burnett has been engaged to conduct and edit
the department, and the list of contributors
includes Miss Helen Gladstone, Margaret De-
land, Octave Thanet, Frances Courtney Baylor,
Harriet Prescott Spofford, Sarah Orne Jewett,
Ellen Olney Kirke, Tennyson, Edward Everett
Hale, Edmund Gosse, Prof. MaxMuller, Bret
Harte, and many other distinguished writers.
	"The Boston Traveller says that the four new
states will come into the Union at their best,
since they have become the heirs of the most
enlightened and most progressive legislation in
modern times. Hardly! The most progressive
legislation in modern times has given women
full political rights in the Isle of Man, has
made women county voters in England and
municipal voters in Great Britain and most of
its dependencies, also in our state of Kansas.
Nor have the new states even kept up to their
own highest mark, for the legislature of Da-
kota once granted the ballot to women, and
three times have the people of Washington by
their representatives acceded to the same. So
while the new states could not wholly ignore
the claim of women, they have sinned against
much light and fallen far below the  most pro-
gressive legislation."
	The fiftieth birthday of Miss Frances E.
Willard was celebrated on Sept. 28, by a large
gathering and public reception at the First
Methodist Church at Evanston, Ill. Addresses
were made by Mr. H. H. C. Miller, president
of the village; Rev. Joseph Cummings, D. D.,
prssident of Northwestern University; Rev. S.
F. Jones, D. D., pastor of the First Methodist
Church; Mrs. Elizabeth W. Andrew; who
spoke for the W. C. T. U., Mrs. Elizabeth B.
Harbert, on behalf of the Woman's Council;
and resolutions were offered by Hon. E. S.
Taylor. Miss Willard responded with her
usual grace. There was music by Misses
Catherine Waugh, Bessie Bragdon, and Ruth
Crandon, a reading by Mrs. Lida Hood Talbot,
and messages and letters of congratulation
from persons of note all over the country, in-
cluding the poet Whittier and ex-President
Hayes. Miss Willard has done a great work,
for which she is deservedly loved and honored.
The tributes on her birthday shew how wide
spread is the affection felt for her.		Ex.

Woman's Superiority.
	"Is there anything a man cannot do?" asks
an exchange. "We have never yet found a
man who could scold the children with his
mouth full of pins."


OBITUARY.

	It becomes our painful duty to record the death of our
beloved sister Anna Maria Westergard, born May 14,
1856, in Bedsted, Thidsted Co., Denmark. Was baptized
in 1865, came to Utah with her parents in 1866.  Married
Bro. J. Westergard Aug. 25, 1886, who had then only a
few months before buried a kind and affectionate wife.  She
came as an administering Angel to share the trouble of
a sorrowing father and five small children the youngest
only a few months old, which she cared for very tenderly,
and brought in time an addition to the sorrowstricken father
another little boy.


Sister Westergard was lady-like in appearance, a woman
of good judgment, and very sincere in her religion, a true
Latter-day Saint, and encouraged her husband and child-
ren to be faithful, and bore her testimony to the last.
During her short stay in Harrisville she was beloved by all,
she had acquired a good deal of useful knowledge and was
willing to impart it to others
	Truly we have lost a good teacher, a noble sister in our
Society.  But our consolation is, we have but buried her
remains, her spirit has gone to mingle in the society of the
Saints forever.
					MARY HEGSTED, President.
					CHRISTENA HEGSTED, Sec.
	Harrisville, Weber Co., Utah.


[Graphic] UNION PACIFIC THE OVERLAND ROUTE
[Typed] Tickets
ON SALE
TO ALL
PRINCIPAL POINTS
EAST, WEST,
NORTH and SOUTH
—-AT--
UNION TICKET OFFICE,
Main Street, Salt Lake City.
C. E. INGALLS,     J. V. PARKER,
City Pass. Agt.	Div. Pass. Agt.

R.K. THOMAS
EAGLE EMPORIUM
SALT LAKE CITY.
The Leading Retail
Cash House.
R.K.THOMAS

Special to the Ladies.
AT TEASDEL’S
Will be found the latest styles and productions
in
LACES, KUCHES, EMBRODERIES,
FANS, GLOVES, PARASOLS,
RIBBONS, COLLARS, TIES
And an elegant assortment of
DRY GOODS:
	Special department for Ladies’ Misses’ and In-
fant’s Shoes.
		112, 114, 116, 118 East Temple Street

DAVID JAMES & CO.
TINNERS GAS,WATER & STEAM FITTERS
Agent for RUMSEY'S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from
the country promptly responded to.
Address. DAVID JAMES, Box 306, SALT LAKE CITY.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

	The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.

