VOL. 18.	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, JUNE 15, 1889.	NO. 2.


CONTENTS.

	From a Far Off Sister—M. L. S. Hephzibah—
A Story. The First of June—The Standard.
	EDITORIAL: This and That. The EXPONENT'S
Birthday—Augusta Joyce Crocheron. Primary at
Mill Creek.
	Suffrage Meeting—E. Pingree. Sericulture—
M. A. Till. Words to Mothers—A Mother.
Envy—Miss Aggie Campbell.
	Relief Society St. Joseph—W. East. Meet-
ings at Fillmore—M. A. Y. Greenhalgh. Ad-
dress to Bishop Atwood—Dr. E. S. Barney. Mrs.
Alder's Address. Sandwich Island Letter—
Lucy M. King. A Progression Backwards—The
Standard. Miscellaneous. Obituary.
	POETRY: June---H. F. Thomas.  Woman's
Suffrage---J. P. M. Farnsworth. A Missionary--S.


JUNE
Thou art here with thy garland of roses;
	Thou art here once agnin with thy song;
Thou hast brought back the blue sky and sunshine
	The days so exquisite and long.

Thou hast called back the birds wtth their music,
	Arrayed the old forest anew,
Hast brought back the lingering twilight,
	Begemmed the sweet morning with dew.

Brought back a new pleasure in living,
	The richness of life, and the bliss;
And yet amid all the glad beauty,
	There is something, still something we miss.

O June, with thy garland of roses,
	We bid thee farewell without pain,
For thou bringest not back the glad hours,
	The heart thrills we long for in vain.

There's a silence we long to have broken,
	A stillness amid all the song;
A voiceless something reminding
	Of days that forever are gone.

There are chords we miss out of the music,
	There is something gone out of the hours;
A brightness we miss from the sunshine,
	A fragrance we miss from the flowers.

Farewell, sweetest month of the summer,
	Bright gem in the swift passing years;
We are glad for thy coming and going,
	Though gladness is mingled with tears.

For we know there will come a glad summer
	And a June that is fairer than this,
Where the "lost chords" will swell the glad music.
	And the "missing" will make up the hliss.
						MRS. H. F. THOMAS.
Hearth ond Hall.


[Column 1]
FROM  A FAR  OFF SISTER.

DEAR EDITOR EXPONENT:
     Once more I find myself attempting the task
of penning a few of my random thoughts.  It 
is now the loveliest spring weather, and the
gay little birds are daily seranading us with
their sweet melodies; but soothing as music is
I am weary of too great a variety of it tonight,
yet, at last the little ones are asleep, and baby
has forgotten her tiny teeth; yes, and the notes
of the violin have ceased in the adjoining room,
so I suppose, for at least a few moments. I may
write without interruption.
     Now if this pen would only go to work and

[Column 2]
get all these varied thoughts into a creditable
article, I might remember you much oftener;
and when I can make up my mind even to jot 
down a few small lines, I feel that while re-
membering my dear sisters, that they too re-
member me; and my spiritual strength is re-
newed; my duties pointed out more plainly.
So if one seems to write for others, it is really
self and one's own weaknesses that suggest 
much that is given.
     If there is a sister in Zion who does not think
and that too, strongly, now-a-days, she must
be lacking in sensibility.  How many pure
and elevating thoughts rise in the mind, while
the wild and unprofitable are also forced in by
the wily tempter; and how often I ask, how
much am I learning to control these same
thoughts?  For I realize I must do so ere I hope
to successfully control my every word and
make it echo the sentiments of a true and
honest heart.  How often we can see even
those we love the best, in sore distress by un-
kind words;  and although the heart may not
be as cruel as this traitor tongue would lead
one to suppose, yet, certain it seems to me, that
if every evil and unholy thought is cast out,
our words and conversation must soon be that
of a Saint; and such that  the unseen angels
might be ready to listen  to, instead of being
driven from our presence.
     Our lives are ours to make or to mar.  We
have the right to earn a salvation in the
Kingdom of God, or be doomed to eternal
sorrow in the great hereafter, as we choose for
ourselves.  Shall we throw to the winds all
prospect of heavenly joy, for  the sake of
selfish whims being gratified during our earthly
life?  No! a thousand times no.  We are only
here on earth to prepare for an eternal exist-
ence beyond the grave, and why do we let
selfishness and avarice blind our eyes that we 
so often lose sight of the goal we so much de-
sire to gain.  We know that the only safe-
guard is prayer; and we are sure of His pro-
tecting influence while we humbly sue for it;
but if left alone we may stumble and fall;
and it may be so low we can never rise again.
Many of us say,  how thankful we are for
every trial we have been called upon to pass
through, and especially for the privilege of
having lived in the "Celestial order of Mar-
riage."  But were we willing that each member
be considered equal with ourselves?  Were we
really converted to the fact that this sacred
principle was revealed  by God for our tem-
poral as well as spiritual salvation?
     We cannot remove trials from the paths of
our daughters, but much may be done to
soften their trials by their  being taught im-
plicit confidence in God and never doubting 
his justice and mercy.  We are satisfied Our
Father is more merciful than we as mortals
can be, yet we must also see that to obtain like
blessings,  all must be in the same state of
preparation; if not by performing the ident-
cal labor,  by placing ourselves as humble and 
willing instruments in His hands, and if there
is  any law we have  not accepted truly and
sincerely in our hearts we  have yet to do so
before we  may hope to live up to the require-
ments of the Gospel, or be near that state of
happiness and perfection we hope to find after
laying down our life-work,  for if dropped
ever so suddenly, it cannot be received in such
an unfinished state, but must be gathered up
and begun at the very point it was left.

[Column 3]
Then surely, dear sisters, we are not wasting
our time and our struggles to overcome the
weaknesses of the flesh, and  to make each
day's work as perfect as possible.  And
though we may not now understand, we may
be comforted by these  beautiful words of the
poet:
 
		"When we reach the shining strand
		Where the waiting angels stand,
		In the far off father-land,
				We shall know;
		In the happiness unending
		Of a blissful comprehending,
		   What our life-work meant below.

		In the fullness deep and wide,
		Weary souls by sorrow tried,
		Knowing, shall be satisfied
				In His rest.
		Finding in the perfect sweetness
		Of an infinite completeness
		   That God's way is always best."
							    M. L. S.


HEPHZIBAH.

I
	"Truth is stranger than fiction."

	His love was like that of the knights of
olden time, who were ever ready to break a
lance in love's defense; and often when beside
the hearth-stone of the wide, old fireplace, on a
wintry night, he would sit by her as she dallied
with her knitting, for womans' hands are scarce
ever quiet, and as he would recount over and
again the chapter of incidents upon the battle-
field, how he had suffered with his comrades
in arms, and how many had died of the wounds
received from the enemy, his blood would rise
to fever heat, as he seemed to see the dreadful
tragedies enacted over again, and starting to
his feet with clenched hands and eyes of fire, he
would vow eternal enmity to the foe;—but his
eye chancing to rest upon his fair, young wife,
and remembering the sacrifices she had made
for him, all the anger would die out of his face,
and a change such as an angel's presence might
bring where discord reigned, would be swift
as transition, and dropping low his eyes,suffused
with tears, his passionate voice changed to low
and tremulous tones, he would exclaim entreat-
ingly, "forgive me darling,—for your dear sake
I will refrain from recrimination, your father
was a brave and valiant soldier, though he
fought on the wrong side; but he was the soul
of honor; and though it wounded his pride to
see you marry one he considered inferior, one
of the rebels, he had been sent across the sea to
subdue, yet he loved his child too well to wreck
her happiness, and recognized that love con-
quers, when the sword has failed."
	This was nearly a hundred years ago now,
and both are lying in the old church yard un-
der the mossy sods, with broken tomb-stones,
overgrown with tangled rose-vines in the sleepy
town, whose church steeples can yet be seen
from the village, where their wedded life was
spent. The lady died in the full bloom of
motherhood, many years before her "lord," and
left him lonely and sorrowful, in the prime of
his life at the old manor house.
	Long years after, a change had been
wrought in all that pertained to the village and
its inhabitants. The home of the Major and
his once young and beautiful wife, had grown


[column 1]
old and gray, and well befitted its owner; 'twas
a rambling country dwelling, gambrel-roofed,
the eaves projecting wide, and the swallows had
built their nests year  after year in the same
nooks and corners, until they seemed as much
at home as the inmates of the house.  Outside
'twas quaint in design of no particular archi-
tecture, rather rudely built, but withal substan-
tial, and like its master had seen much service;
—the storms of many winters had beaten upon
its walls, and it was weather-worn; inside it
was roomy, home-like and commodious; the
large wide open fire-place bespoke warmth and
comfort, especially when great logs of wood
were piled on the heavy fire-dogs, and blazed
up fitfully, and the tall, thin, tallow candles
burned with a flickering light, and shadows
flitted hither and thither in the long,low rooms
with their sombre walls; then the house had
almost a legendary appearance, and one
susceptible of illusions, might readily have
been induced to believe the frightful stories of
ghosts and witches, that were the regular
winter pastime, on a festive evening in the
country houses.  The furniture of the place
was in harmony with its other appointments,
oaken and dark and heavy made;—tall chests
of drawers with awkward brass knobs, reached
from the floor to the ceiling, filled with the
family linen, that had once been the pride of
the fair young mistress; tables we should call
clumsy now, and chairs and sofas straight-
backed and uncomfortable, corresponded well
with the  other articles of furniture.  In the
long dining room, the principal living room
in the days of the first master and mistress,
when the children were around them, was a tall
majestic clock, inside which one might have
stood upright with perfect ease; the large brass
pendulum swung to and fro as leisurely as
when it counted the merry hours for the happy
family that dwelt within these, now almost
deserted rooms.  The great broad face looked
knowing and wise as much as to say.  I keep
the family chronology.  I have marked the
time of births, of marriages and deaths faith-
fully for four-score years.  I guard the honor
of the house, and know its history.  Many
times in years after when the long, low room
was deserted, and a neighbor would drop in,
the old clock was like a familiar friend, and its
tick, tick in the quiet of the old house seemed
to break the deep silence that rested upon it.
				11

Deserted halls where all was once so bright,
	Now so neglected, shadowy and gray;
For she, who made the home so full of light,
	Can come no more, to chase the gloom away.

	After six and twenty years of uninterrupted
domestic felicity, the master was left alone with
his five boys.  No daughter had been born to
them to bear the semblance of the beautiful
wife and mother, though the father had
ardently longed for one, to be the light and
comfort of his home.  Many were the plans
the happy couple laid, in that past which was
gone forever now,—to train and educate a little
girl, should the fates be so propitious as to
grant them this desire.  The husband thus bereft
of his treasure yearned more than ever for wo-
manly companionship.  His mother had been
dead many years, he had never known what it
was to have a sister; and now his wife the be-
loved of his heart, the companion of his youth,
and the pride of his home was gone forever.
He could not be reconciled to his loss, and he
gave himself up to sad and gloomy reveries that
made him old before his time, and totally un-
fitted him for the duties devolving upon him as
the father and only parent to his family of
boys.  The boys grew to manhood and entered
upon the busy, practical pursuits of life; and
one by one left the paternal roof to which the
father clung so tenaciously.  The orchard and

[column 2]
fields were neglected, the garden grew to weeds
and the fine old cherry trees were the sport of
the birds and the unruly urchins of the neigh-
borhood.  The beehives demanded some little
attention once or twice a year, but the master
never gave any orders to his servants so the
fine estate was left to ruin.  The old gentleman
sat in his chimney corner in her room, the one
she, whom he so loved had occupied, and drank
his tea, and ate his tasteless meals, (scarce
realizing what he did,) on the same round table
with snowy linen, where so many times in the
olden days they two had sat and chatted over
the romantic past and sketched out the golden
future.  There was the queer cupboard filled
with quaint old china, a few pieces of silver-
ware seldom ever washed, a chest of drawers
packed with linen that was never aired.
     For years the master lived on and on in the
same dull, stupid, monotonous wey until he
was nearly a hundred years old.  Once or
twice a year the eldest son and heir, long ago
tired of the factory which had fallen into a ruin,
the namesake of his father and father’s father,
Elisha, would come up from Boston, to look
after the property and see that no one carried
away the valuables; and each time he antici-
pated renting the estate to some thrifty young
farmer, who would make it pay a good interest,
as well as keep it in repair. “No! No!” was
invariably the answer. “Wait until I am
gone.” A younger son resided in the village,
but his family was large, though he like his
father had married late in life, and had not
been very successful in his enterprise, had met
with heavy losses, and the eldest son hated him
and would not allow any interference on his
part in regard to the homestead.  This was the
condition of affairs three score years ago and
more, at the time our story opens, and the vil-
lage was as described in the opening paragraph.
Four score years and more had flown since the
old Major first saw the light of day, and those
he knew in early life, one by one had gone un-
til none remained of the loved and cherished
companions of his youth, and he felt,

"Like one who treads alone, some banquet hall de-
	serted
Whose lights are fled, whose garlands dead,
And all but he departed."

	He was much alone; occasionally his grand
children who lived near the homestead would
come in and listen to his strange stories, but his
heart seemed cold and dead, and he never
kissed or caressed them in fact they worried
him; so the old woman used to say who waited
on him.  The little things wondered at his in-
difference and often asked “What ails grand-
pa?” And mamma would explain how he
mourned for her he had so tenderly loved, his
wife; and that no daughter had come into the
home to fill the vacancy; and it may be strange
to state that none of his son’s wives suited him,
he thought them all too common place.  They
could not enter into his feelings and views; and
had no patience with his whims.  He talked
much to himself and often fancied that his
darling, the light of his life, sat by him as in
days gone by.
	One wintry day when the snow was deep
upon the ground, he was sitting by the little
corner fire-place toying with his silver snuff
box and musing as though holding sweet com-
munion with her he loved, and a little child
beautiful and bright, came running in, and
roused him from his dreamy reverie, exclaim-
ing, “News! grandpa; good news!” The poor
old man half dreaming said, “No, my son, she
has not come back, she cannot come, I have
called her often, but all in vain;” “But grand-
pa,” reasoned the child, “papa sent me to tell
you to come over;—you must come, its to see
the new baby, it came at sunrise this morning,
and papa wants you to drink to its good health
and long life, for it is a girl, and you are to

[column 3]
name it.” Hearing this and beginning to un-
derstand the situation, the aged man took his
hat and cane, and off he strode with the little
one to the house of his son, a short distance
away, only a few minutes walk, and with the
impatience of a child he entered.  The son
welcomed his father warmly, and after seating
him comfortably by the fire, explained why he
had sent for him on such a cold raw day.
“Father” said he; “we have had sons and
daughters, six in number, this is the seventh,
and perchance may be the last in your life-
time, and I want you to name it, and filling
the glass with purple wine he handed it to his
venerable father, who taking it drank to
“Hephzibah,” and said “I shall not live long
and she who was born to-day shall bear the
name of her I loved so well and mourn so sin-
cerely.  The wee little creature shall be called
for her grandmother, who was “the pride of
the village.” And then he uttered, possibly
unknown to himself, a prophecy that she should
become learned and wise, and that in all the
village none should excel her in the road to
fame.  But of all this no one thought much at
the time, but years afterwards the saying came
back to their remembrance with increased sig-
nificance.  Dinner was served, and the old
Major grew talkative.  A tender chord had
been touched by repeating the name he loved
so well, for how dear the plainest names be-
come when associated with those precious to
our hearts, we all know.   The children in-
quired what grandpa named the baby sister,
and when they were told 'twas Hephzibah, they
though it “dreadful horrid,” and even cried to
think so sweet a little baby should have such a
terrible name given to it.  But grandpa was
inexorable, and tears and entreaties were of no
avail, and as if to make peace he said she
should have all the fine embroidered laces, her
grandmother had wrought with her own dainty
fingers, the chests of linen, the elegant, old
china, the silver ware and spoons, and all the
silks and ribbons so long packed away out of
sight, that no woman was permitted to handle,
much less to wear.  All this and more he pro-
mised on the day of her birth to the uncons-
cious little one.
		  [TO BE CONTINUED.]


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


NOTES AND NEWS.

	The Connecticut House of Representatives
has passed the bill granting school suffrage to
women, with the right to hold school offices.
	The New England Woman Suffrage Asso-
ciation, having reached the age of twenty-one,
is no longer in the minority period, and is en-
titled to the ballot and full rights of citizen-
ship generally. The shingle of conservatism
still refuses to go over the dam, but the in-
evitable is near at hand.—Boston Globe.
	The Connecticut House of Representatives
has passed a bill providing that "no person
shall be disqualified for being a member of any
ecclesiastical society, with all the privileges
and rights of male members, or from holding
office in such society, by reason of sex;" also, a
bill making women eligible to the office of
Assistant Town Clerk and Registrar of Births,
Marriages, etc.
	"Mrs. Julia Ward Howe received many
beautiful gifts on her seventieth birthday, May
27, and the papers have devoted much space to
well-deserved tributes to her life and work.
The current number of America celebrates
Mrs. Howe's birthday with a series of contribu-
tions in prose by her children, Florence Howe
Hall, Laura E. Richards, Maud Howe Elliot
and Henry M. Howe, with a selection from the
writings of the late Julia Romana Anagnos."


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


WOMAN'S SUFFRAGE.

We're a band of valiant women,
	In a cause both true and just;
Have started on a mission,
	And in God we put our trust.
We aim not, at pomp and grandeur,
	But ours is the call for right—
And it has a beacon burning—
	To cheer us with its light.

'Tis the cry from far off countries,
	'Tis the wail of womankind
To aid in gaining knowledge,
	To strengthen and to bind;
To comfort and encourage,
	To raise the fallen heart,
	To lighten heavy burdens,
And of justice, grant a part.

Our duties here, as mothers,
	Give license for our needs;
Simply asking right of franchise,
	The power the ballot feeds.
We claim no greater liberty,
	Than intelligence will gain;
No surer wealth of purpose
	Than our minds can now maintain.

For woman's worth is growing;
	In time, 'twill force its way
Thro' darkness adn thro' prejudice,
	Men are groping in to-day.
Therefore, we'll work in earnest.
	And calmly bide our time
To enjoy woman's right of suffrage,
	In this our Utah's clime.

We'll not falter in our purpose,
	No difference what people say;
Ours is a glorious object,
	O'er which the future sheds its ray;
Tho' ridicule and ignoranee
	May scorn, and scoff at pleasure,
Undaunted we will meet them,
And deal them out full measure.

We'll stand, with fearless character,
	And lend a helping hand
To every call that's honest,
	Of whatever creed or clan.
Our motto and our watchword,
	Shall be principle and truth
For our home and for our country,
	God grant us help for both.

		J. P. M. FARNSWORTH.


[Column 1]﻿

A MISSIONARY.

How shall we express the great pleasure
	We take in now writing to friends?
O truly! No mortal can measure
	The blessings, which Our Father sends.

One year and a half since we parted
	From friends, with the shake of the hand;
'Tis just the same time since we started,
	From mountains and valleys so grand.

Though in a strange land now we wander,
	As young missionaries we roam;
We're growing the fonder, and fonder
	Of friends in our dear Mountain Home.

Duty called for a time, separation
	From those who are dear to our heart;
From Sunday School, friends and relations,
	From all duty called us to part.

The call was to go on a mission,
	To battle with error and doubt;
And overcome rank opposition
	To truth the world soon shall find out.

This labor and duty devolving
	On us to perform for the Lord—
We left our home firmly resolving,
	To trust in his promising word.

We went, ah yes, 'twas our duty
	To go and proclaim to the world,
The glory and transcendent beauty
	Of Zion's white banner unfurled.

To warn men of all ranks and stations,
	To show them the Gospel we teach,

[Column 2]

And tell of the great exaltation
	They may by obedience reach.

We tell them, "give heed to our warning;
	The Gospel accept and obey;
That you may arise in the morning,
	Of the first resurrection day."

We teach them true faith in the Father,
	Creator of all that we see;
And also in Jesus our Savior,
	Who says, "Believe also in me."

"For through Him you'll gain life eternal,
	If you but obey His command;
Partake of the blessings supernal,
	In reigning with His righteous band."

That they with an honest desire,
	Should turn from transgression and sin;
And make their aim brighter and higher,
	Determined life's battle to win.

Be born of the water and spirit,
	Receive a remission of sins;
Obey the Still Voice when you hear it,
	Instructing your spirit within.

And when you have laid the foundation, 
	Go on to perfection's bright shore.
That you may enjoy the relation
	Of Christ with His Saints evermore.

When "peace on the earth" will be sounded'
	"Good will to all men" be the cry,
Your joy will be surely unbounded,
	Singing praise to Jehovah on high.

Above, is the message we're preaching,
	'Tis Jesus, and Him crucified;
His goodness and mercy we're teaching,
	How, for us, He suffered and died.

In leaving our home for this object,
	To travel without purse or scrip,
The Elders are, oftentimes subject
	To insults, the scourge and the whip.

Vile jeerings, and vituperation,
	Mob violence, scoffing and scorn;
A flood of misrepresentation,
	A child of gross ignorance born.

They drive us from city to city,
	Yet, we must forgive and forbear;
They yet will come pleading for pity,
	In tears of remorse and dispair.

Remember, the word that is spoken,
	The servant's not greater than Lord,
If you are reviled, 'tis a token
	That you are obeying his word.

Rejoice ye in your persecution!
	This, Saints, shall your heritage be;
For, this, did they unto the Prophets,
	And thus will they do unto thee.

Don't think all is stormy and cloudy,
	That nothing but troubles appear;
We often meet those who are friendly,
	Who's kindnesses comfort and cheer.

For, oft, as a sweet fragrant flower,
	Is found by a rank noxious weed,
So some, will do all in their power
	Providing the things that we need.

Who giveth a cup of cold water,
	In no wise shall lose his reward.
Who gives us food, raiment and shelter,
	Shall surely be blessed of the Lord:

At last, we will turn our attention
	To brothers and Sunday School friends;
(But first we just thought we would mention
	Our labors, and what they attend.)

To give a complete explanation,
	Of scenes and experiences too,
I'll wait for the realization
	Of once again meeting with you.

Indulging in musing reflections,
	Familiar home duties oft pass;
And foremost of these retrospections,
	Are scenes of the Sunday School class.

When just before ten Sunday morning—
	Return of another Lord’s day—

[Column 3]

The Sabbath School children are formiug
	In classes to learn, sing and pray.

It seems even now, we hear blending
	The voices of Saints singing praise;
To Father in heaven, for sending
	The Gospel, in these latter days.

And when you are humbly addressing
	The throne of our Father to-day,
Dear friends, you must ask for a blessing
	For those who are far, far away.

We earnestly pray and petition,
	The Lord to direct and sustain
The Saints in their trying position,
	Till Christ comes in glory to reign.		S.


THE FIRST OF JUNE.

	June 1st, "Primary Day" among the children
of Utah, is one of the happiest in all the year.
It comes when nature is at her best and all the
flowers are gorgeous with their wealth of color
and weighted with their rich perfume. It falls
between the season of uncertain and change-
able spring, and that of heated and oppressive
summer. In our altitude it is in every respect
far more suitable for the annual spring festival
of the children than the conventional Mayday
whose pleasures it each year more and more
completely reserves unto itself.
	As the birthday of Brigham Young, the day
deserves all the honor which it receives. A per-
sonal remembrance of that great man is held
by many of the youth who do not yet feel
themselves too old to share in the festivities of 
his anniversary. The younger portion know
him only for the deeds and words which he has
left behind. As they grow in years and un-
derstanding they will become better able to ap-
preciate his worth, and in the record which he
made they will find, as their elders do, ever
more to commemorate and admire.
	It is said that cotemporary history is never
just; what is praiseworthy is smothered with
adulation, what is faulty is distorted by preju-
dice. During the life of the man whose natal
day the children yesterday observed, his works
seldom received a word of praise. He was
slandered, caricatured, and contemned, and
most bitterly, strange to say, where his achiev-
ments were apparent every day. If he was
credited at all with the magnificent acquire-
ments which are a part of Utah's history, those
who were bold enough to recognize them came
in themselves for a share of the abuse heaped
upon him.
	Happily the world grows wiser as the years
move on. Petty enmities fade away as the
cycles sweep around, and those who judged
heatedly yesterday are to-day blessed with
calmer vision. Fresh eyes, too, and minds un-
tainted by passion, have come to see and ap-
preciate what to us is an old theme. Under
these conditions the work of Utah's founder is
better understood. Brigham Young is not now
stigmatized as a fanatic, a greedy zealot, an
ignorant autocrat. Men of sense and breadth,
judging him by his works, speak of him as
possessed of transcendant powers. They admit
that he was mighty in character, and must have
been filled with true statesmanship. They
recognize in the Utah of to-day a never dying
testimony of his greatness; aud, however much
they may differ with his creed, they do not
withhold their tribute to his nobility of mind.
	As the record of his life shall be more widely
read and better understood, admiration of his
character will increase with all who are able
to approximately measure men by the divine
standard: "By their works ye shall know
them." Who knows but what on some future
occasion when the children following their
beautiful custom are celebrating his anniver-
sary, a thought of regret may enter the hearts
of some who lately deemed Brigham Young's
name unworthy of being borne by one of the
streets of Ogden City!	The Standard.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS,	Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah. Terms:
one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months, 50 cts. No
reduction made for clubs. City papers delivered by mall,
extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space, one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal discount
to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, No. 25 E., South Temple Street, second
gate east of Deseret News Office. Business hours from 10 a.m.
to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
		PUBLISHER WOMAN’S EXPONENT,
			SALT LAKE CITY. UTAH.

	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
Second Class Matter.

SALT LAKE CITY,	June	15, 1889.


[Column 1]

THIS AND THAT.

	The Old Folks' Excursion comes off on the 26
inst. It will be the 15th anniversary, and the
destination is Lester Park, Ogden City.
	We acknowledge with thanks and a full appreci-
ation of the delicate expressions of affection,
floral tributes from Mrs. Jane Cowan, Misses Kate
and E. Wells, and Mrs. A. W. Cannon; also a
very handsome and fragrant bouquet of wild
flowers from Miss Caroline and Master Volney
Crocheron.
	Mrs. Sarah M. Kimball, of this City, accom-
panied by her daughter, has gone East to the
State of New York to attend a centennial celebra-
tion of the town of Phelps, Ontario Co., the
place of her nativity. Mrs. Kimball was speci-
ally invited to represent her father's family, the
Grangers, at the public demonstration which is to
be made on the occasion, June 19, 1889.
	The name of the Salt Lake Stake Academy,
was changed to Latter-day Saints' College, by
formal action of the Board of Directors, on the
15th of May, 1889. We have received the Annual
Circular issued for the Fourth Academic Year,
1889-1890, and shall notice more fully at another
time. We have observed in glancing through it,
several changes, which mark the progress of this
excellent school, and feel confident of the success
of a college where religious teaching is at the
foundation of educational work.
	Clara Barton, President of the Red Cross, is
doing effective work on a large scale at the scene
of suffering in Johnstown. This remarkable
woman is a public benefactor, and deserves ever-
lasting gratitude for her efficient labors among the
sick and afflicted, the wounded and dying, not
only on the battle-field, but in times of peace,
when dire calamities of any kind have befallen a
place or people; whenever and wherever suffer-
ing humanity has called for gentle woman's minis-
trations, nothing daunted, she has gone like an
angel 'mid scenes' the most appalling. Her name
is written in deeds of valor and charity, far more
imperishable, than if in letters of gold, for they
are engraven unmistakably upon human hearts.
	The Alumni Association of the Deseret Uni-
versity, had a most delightful meeting and ball at
the University Building in this City, on Wedens-
day evening June 12. The programme was a
most excellent one, being a pleasing variety of
exercises, songs, music. speeches, toasts, etc.
The banquet prepared for two hundred was in
every way a perfect success; the tables were
artistically decorated with flowers which always
adds greatly to any scene, and to the enjoyment
of the participants.
	The University commencement exercises were

[Column 2]

held in the Salt Lake Theatre on Thursday,
June 13, and were of a most interesting character
of which we hope to give a more full account in
the near future; also the names of the graduates
and other items of the brilliant and successful
affair.
	The three young girls who graduated in the
literary course were, Misses Mary Lewis, May
Preston, and Maud Merrill of Salt Lake City.
Miss Preston, representing the graduates in the
literary course, read an essay "Poetry as a Moral
Influence," which was received with hearty and
richly merited applause and a shower of flowers,
which must have been very delightful. Miss
Bessie Dean sang a ballad "Laddie" in her most
happy manner, and was also enthusiastically
complimented.
	Friday was "Field Day" for the Deseret Uni-
versity at Lake Park, where a most enjoyable
afternoon and evening was spent by the teachers,
graduates and their friends; dancing at the
pavilion was kept up until a late hour.
	To the principal, Dr. J. R. Park must be attri-
buted much of the success of the institution, and
he will surely feel laudably proud of the honors
and gratitude which are rightfully bestowed upon
him and his fellow laborers, who have been so
many years associated in the University's educa-
tional work. Professors Toronto, Kingsbury and
Paul also come in for a goodly share in the
public debt of gratitude.
	In honor of Mrs. Elliot Sandford and her hus-
band, the late Chief Justice of this Territory,
previous to their leaving Utah, (and whose re-
moval from the judicial bench the people so much
regret) an excursion party to the lake was planned
and successfully carried out by Mrs. F. S.
Richards, and Mrs. W. W. Riter. There were
about fifty invitations given, and Mr. Riter
placed a car at the disposal of the company.
There was no particular programme, except
having a good time generally, and it was
thoroughly an enjoyable affair. The day was a
fair one, as most June days are in this climate.
The party seemed happily grouped and the
ladies in charge did all in their power to make
the hours speed merrily.
	A few indulged in baths, but most of the party
sat in the pavilion, chatting and watching the
bathers and admiring the wonderful lake, the
western view, and the mountains beyond, until
the late train having arrived, on which the Judges
were expected, a call was made to repair to the
dining room, where the guests were served to an
elaborate dinner, including all the delicacies of
the season.  Mr. and Mrs. W. W. Riter, Mrs.
F. S. Richards, (her husband having been unavoid-
ably detained), Judge Sanford and wife, Judge
Anderson and wife, also Miss Anderson and Mrs.
McCoy, were seated at the head of the table;
Delegate John T. Caine and wife, and Mrs. Buck
of Keokuk, were near them, and other ladies and
gentlemen filled the long table on either side, and
a merry company they were indeed.
	Mrs. Sandford had many gifts of flowers,
baskets and bouquets, and she looked radiantly
happy withal. It was very much regretted that
Judge Henderson aud wife, and Judge Judd and
wife, who were to have been of the party
could not attend; also that President Angus M.
Cannon who accompanied the party, was obliged
to return on an early train.
	On Saturday, June 8th, Judge and Mrs. Sanford
left Salt Lake City for the East, going by way
of the National Park. They have left many
warm friends and admirers in Utah, who will
gladly welcome them back should they ever re-
turn.
	All over the land in America and elsewhere 
abroad, the deepest sympathy for the sufferers of 
Johnstown has been felt, and in many places and
in many ways expressed; not only in touching

[Column 3]

and eloquent words, but also in material aid and
assistance coming from all parties, and all sections
of the country.
	Utah has responded heartily, as evinced by the
carloads of provisions sent and money liberally
donated by individuals and business firms. Also
by the united efforts of the citizens of Salt Lake
City, in planning, and carrying into execution the
Mammoth Concert in the large Tabernacle, the
proceeds of which it is now estimated will be over
seven thousand dollars.
	In this delightful entertainment for so noble a
purpose, the best local talent in the City, gave
their services with glad hearts and voices and
willing hands, to swell the fund for the benefit of
suffering humanity.
	Young ladies have not been idle, as we under-
stand quite a considerable sum was raised by
selling bouquets on the streets. Of course youth
beauty and flowers are in themselves attractive,
but when a noble purpose is in view, the enter-
prise was sure to be a grand success.
	In Ogden, a Benefit concert was given at the
tabernacle on short notice, but it was quite a
brilliant affair, and there as in Salt Lake, the best
local talent united heart and heand to make it a
success. Quite a sum was raised there too, to
swell the fund by the little girls selling bouquets,
in booths fitted up for the purpose on the streets.
All the flowers were donated from the gardens
round about. It was a very pretty sight to see
these sweet wee maidens surrounded with an
abundance of the most choice and lovely roses
and flowers of June, engaged in such a charitable
work at their tender age.
	We regret exceedingly our lack of space to
give more special details of what has been done.
Ogden, Provo, and other cities in Utah have also
raised money for the sufferers, by individual do-
nations. Some of the means we understand, is
to be devoted to the Seattle people, who were
sufferers on account of the great fire which
occured there recently.


THE EXPONENT'S BIRTHDAY.

SEVENTEEN YEARS OLD.

DEAR EXPONENT.
	And so you were seventeen years old the I, of
June, 1889? How very happy an idea that it is
also President Brigham Young's birthday. In
calling you into existence upon that honored day,
you are imperishably connected with his illustri-
ous history, as well as indebted to him for your
very being. Have you not cause for gratitude?
You, who even yet in your "teens" speak to all
the world for the maidens, matrons, and even the
Priesthood, in behalf of our liberty and our re-
ligion?
	What a traveler you have been. "The isles
wait for thee," the valleys listen and the moun-
tains look afar off, waiting for thy coming. Into
how many stranger hearts hast thou borne the
tidings of truth for thy people, and the sweet in-
fluence of the Gospel; thou faithful missionary
for the Father.
	In this brief career of seventeen years, how
much has been accomplished in His service only
He can count. Great and kind was the heart and
prophetic the mind of Brigham Young when he
called and named thee his literary daughter;
when he gave thee thy mission as bearer and
messenger of truth; as historian of woman's
progress among God's people. Forever may thy
banner lead though many others should rise amid
the hosts of thy people. Long years hast thou
been the solitary guest and comforter, the one
woman's paper; and may they never forget thee,
their first ove; never lay aside their first duty to
thee and thy founder.
	May they who bear his name, and they who
love to remember his counsel, unite their names


upon thy pages with their rarest thoughts, as they
would bring their gifts to deck beauty's form.
Let thy columns be the repository the archives of
treasured thoughts, and records wrought from the
minds and the hearts of the daughters of thy peo-
ple.  Soon, no longer maiden, but woman, dear
EXPONENT, may thy presence be welcomed in
ten thousand homes, telling what Zion's daughters
have done, the magnitude of their enlarging
fields of usefulness, and their still grander hopes.
When you are eighteen, dear EXPONENT, no
take time—when you are twenty, perhaps, may be
you will add a fold or two to your skirts, and em-
bellish them with journalistic attractions—for, are
you not, by birthright entitled and endowed to
wear as many honors as any other eldest born
daughter of fame?

	At this point in my paying my respects to the
EXPONENT, the other guests could not restrain
their impatience at my appropriating so much
valuable time, and I felt my skirt getting pulled
by some one, while others crowded past me with
something in their hands, and a general murmur
of pleasant voices rising higher and higher,
abashed me into silence, and while the EXPO-
NENT peacefully smiled acknowledgement of my
humble appreciation and good wishes, which was
all I had to offer, (as is generally the case on
every other note-worthy occasion,) she was
obliged to give directions to some one to summon
several persons to make out receipts, and in less
than a minute, there was such a fluttering of
papers, exchanging hands, and such a clinking of
falling coins, that I sank back in my chair, over-
come with my insignificance, when the springs
seemed to sink so entirely away, that I sprang up
in alarm. Gracious! was the EXPONENT'S birth-
day reception all a dream? Well, then, as sure
as I'm saying this to you, that dream means
something; "its the forerunner of a good sign,"
as a dear old lady I once knew used to say.  And
I believe this same dream was brought about by
my reflections on the reduction in the price of
the EXPONENT. I wouldn't have done it. A
Mormon Woman's paper is worth two dollars,
more than some other papers are worth one dollar.
		AUGUSTA JOYCE CROCHERON.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

PRIMARY AT MILL CREEK.

	On Tuesday June 4th, we had the pleasure of a
visit to the Primary Associations of Mill Creek
Ward, the four districts having come together, as
is their usual custom to hold an annual meeting.
There were present of visitors President Ellen C.
Clawson and her Counselor Mrs. C. Cobb also Dr.
R. B. Pratt. The meeting house presented an
inviting appearance with the beautiful children in
summer attire, and the vases filled with roses and
fragrant flowers from the field and garden. The
exercises were varied and a credit to the Associa-
tion. Each President had charge of the children
from her own district. The meeting opened with
singing, "All nature invites her praise to God."
Prayer by Elder Phillip Carlisle, singing, "Nearer
my Savior to Thee." Minutes read by the Secre-
tary and approved, also the yearly report. Pro-
gramme first district Mrs. Ann Lemon presiding;
Gertrude Cook, Washington Lemon and Mary
Fuller each gave a recitation, singing by all the
children "The Word of Wisdom," President
Clawson spoke a few words on this subject. Pro-
gramme second district, Mrs. McAllister presid-
ing exercises as follows: Lizzie Bowden, recita-
tion, "Annie and Willie's Prayer," Celia Jen-
son, Earnest Jenson recitation, song by several
girls. Rhoda Ann Boam recitation, Etta Jenson
essay on "Modesty." Song several little girls
"Sabbath  Day." Robie Hamilton, Arthur
Williams, Bella Jenson each a recitation, instru-
mental music by one of the girls, song "The

[Column 2]

Lingering Lover" Ethel Gertrude Park. One of the
Counselors to Mrs. Mary McAllister, Mrs. Cecelia
Sutherland nee Samuels was honorably released
on account of moving from the ward, and a vote
of thanks given her for faithful performance of
duty; Mrs. Jane Ann Park was appointed
Treasurer in the place of Mrs. Mary Samuels, who
was also honorably released from the position.
Singing and benediction closed the morning exer-
cises. Ample refreshments had been prepared in
the vestry, and the noon hour was profitably spent
in general conversation and the meeting of sisters
and friends socially.
	Afternoon session: opened by singing "Love
At Home," prayer by Elder Sorenson, President
Y. M. Association at Mendon; song, "The
World's Jubilee." Programme third district, Mrs.
Frances Hanson, and Mrs. Mary Ann Birch;
Vivian and Ginevra Hendrickson sang "Bright
Smiling Morning," George and John Home,
dialogue, little Mary Bess, song "I had a little
letter," Vilate Morgan and Maud White, dialogue,
entitled "Jennie and Carrie," Gertie Winder song
"Good Night." Mrs. Cobb presented the name
of Mrs. Anzina Peterson to fill the place made
vacant by the resignation of Mrs. Celestia Hanson
who had moved away. Mrs. Peterson was
unanimously sustained and Mrs. Hanson given
a vote of thanks by the children; Mrs. Cobb
afterwards made some very appropriate remarks
on order, obedience and the result of the same.
Bible questions and answers by Roy White and
Birdie Clyde, Lottie Fowler and Mary Fairborne
dialogue, Pearl Carlisle, song. President Hanson
stated that they had intended to have had a manu-
script paper prepared, but had not succeeded in
getting it into shape, however some of the articles
sent in for it, were read by the secretary, Miss
Belle White. Mrs. Louisa Snedekar sent in her
resignation as secretary, which was accepted and
Miss Anna Bell was sustained to fill the position
of secretary. Brief remarks suitable to the occa-
sion and many instructions were made by Dr. R.
B. Pratt, Pres. E. C.Clawson and E. B. Wells. The
meeting was adjourned with singing and prayer
which was offered by Mrs; Elizabeth Hill, Presi-
dent Relief Society. Morning session minutes
were taken by Miss Nellie Carlisle, afternoon
session Miss Belle White. Both these young wo-
men have been very efficient helps in the Primary
Association. Would there were more of the girls
in Zion would follow this example than there are,
to come forward and render such able assistance
with the little ones in teaching them the ways of
the Lord.


SUFFRAGE MEETING.

	The regular monthly meeting of the Woman's
Suffrage Association of Ogden City was held in
the County Court room, June 3rd, at 4 p. m.
There was a large attendance present and all ap-
peared enthusiastic over the object for which they
had organized and met—the franchise for woman.
Pres. Stanford presided,and Mrs. Sarah Richards,
chaplain, opened by prayer. The minutes of the
previous meeting were read and approved.
	Hon. C. W. Penrose of Salt Lake, was introduced
to the large audience and spoke on the privileges
that should be accorded women. The EXPONEFT
in its next issue will publish a synopsis giving the
principal points and subject matter of the speech
which was a most excellent and telling one.
At the conclusion of Mr. Penrose's speech
Miss Lizzie Ensign sang "The Brook" in a
charming manner, pleasingly accompanied by
Prof. L. D. Edwards.
	Hon. Lorin Farr gave a short address.
	A lively glee was sung by a number of young
ladies under the direction of Prof. Edwards.
	On call for members two new names were ob-
tained on the roll.
	Notice was given that at the next meeting Mrs.


E. B. Wells, editor of the WOMAN’S EXPONENT,
Salt Lake City, would address the society.
On motion the meeting adjourned for one
month.
E. PINGREE, Sec.


SERICULTURE.
	Several young girls were taught the reeling of
silk in Provo at the late Sister Beebee’s residence
and we sent quite a number of the skeins East to
be worked up. The Silk Association of Utah
Stake emigrated a woman, a silk weaver from
England to Provo; who wove dress goods, and
100 Handkerchiefs were made by her and another
sister in this settlement, and we donated 30 yards
of silk goods to the Manti Temple as furnishings.
We sent to the Chamber of Commerce a silk
handkerchief and reeled and spun silk which went
East in the Exposition Car.
	We are now having 50 pounds of Cocoons spun
which we intend making into dress goods. There
is a great need felt for the proper machinery for
manufacturing the silk, but the sisters of this
County do not feel like letting the silk industry
die out, though we realize all new enterprises
have to encounter many disadvantages, but we
still have faith in President Brigham Young's as-
surances on the silk question.
				M. A. TILL, Prest.
				JANE P. JONES, Secy.
	Brother Graves wishes made public in the
columns of the Exponent that Congress last year
donated $20,000 to the silk industry but confined
the reeling of silk to the District of Columbia as
experimental.
	He received this spring from the Department at
Washington, a number of Official Envelopes and
Circulars for distribution, also schedules to be
answered; enquiring the number of trees raised
for feeding silk worms, what experience and suc-
cess heretofore in raising cocoons, and the amount
of eggs wanted which would be furnished gra-
tuitously.
	Brother Graves made it known through the
papers and received applications for the same
from as far north as Cache Co., and to St. George
in Washington Co. Several persons in Provo
have taken eggs it being fully understood that the
market price will be given for all cocoons raised,
or if preferred they will be worked up on shares.
						M. A. TILL,
	President Utah Co., Silk Assocation.
Provo, June 5th, 1889.


WORDS TO MOTHERS.

	The key of the Human Heart is sympathy. The
divine sentiment given more abundantly perhaps
to mothers than to any other class of individuals.
Mothers what a grand thing to be a true mother
in every sense of the word. The mother! The
one who reigns supreme in a home: That guides
the stream of domestic life, and calms the disturb-
ing elements, which often arise in the best regu-
lated households. Her duty is to every member
of that household. To each she should be an af-
fectionate friend, a wise counselor, a kind re-
prover. Her responsibility does not end with her
care for her children, but like the brooding wings
of a dove must her ever watchful heart be overall
within her domains. The girl who washes the
dishes is not a mere machine. She is a living soul,
and though her lot be humble and she may have
been reared in ignorance the mother has a duty to
perform to her, and by a few words kindly spoken
may gain her confidence and perhaps lasting af-
fection, and both will be mutually benefited.
Show her that economy is not stinginess, by tell-
ing her, not to let the soap soak away in the dish-
water, dough enough to make a biscuit adhere to
the mixing pan there to dry and be scraped off
and thrown away, sugar be spilt on the outside of


the sack to tempt flies and be wasted, meal sacks
be left open, kettles be left dry to burn on a hot
stove, preparing of dishwater neglected until
wanted, thereby wasting time and fuel, and allow-
ing dirty dishes to stand to draw the flies, clothes
be left out longer than necessary to switch and be
beaten to pieces by the wind. If her moral nature
has not been trained to the strictest honesty she
may help herself to a few hairpins,the childrens’
garters or other little neccessities of the toilet, and
hot think she is doing wrong. Reprove her by
giving her a few hairpins or an occasional pair of
garters, and tell her to take care of her things and
neither waste her own or your things, and that by
taking care of our substance we can have where-
with to be generous. Tell her instead of all that
cheap satin on an ash colored easily soiled dress,
which she is soon disgusted with, to add the price
of the satin to the material and get her a better
and more durable substance. And instead of
sending for ready made, embroidered, bleached,
easily worn out underwear, to get good strong
factory and learn to make it herself, and buy an
occasional tfook with the balance, and instead of
wasting her leisure in running about with idle girls
and gossiping, to improve her mind with anocca-
sional half hour of good reading. Try to arrange
your work so that not only your own girls but the
hired girl can attend the improvement associa-
tion. This course will bring more intelligence
and a kindlier feeling into the kitchen.
	How often is it the case that the mother of a
large household will arise as weary as. when she
lay down, with so much work of various kinds
that it looks like a mountian. How then is she
to bring order out of chaos? First kneel in thank-
fulness for the protecting care of the past night
also ask for strength and wisdom, for patience and
charity which none need more than a mother.
Then when you begin your labors you will be
astonished at the rapidity with which first one
obstacle and then another is surmounted until
when evening comes you will have accomplished
more than you thought possible in the beginning;
and can again return your gratitude to the dis-
penser of all blessings.
	Oh wives! Oh mothers! Stand not on your
false pride which some mis-call dignity, but stand
on your humility which will not let you fall. Be
kind. Be patient, forgiving and humble. Meet
not your husband with hard hearts and cloudy
faces. No matter if you think you are imposed
upon. Better to be wronged than wrong others
Often when you think your affections are slighted
there will exist in the heart of your husband the
deepest tenderness for you. Perhaps he requires
much more of you than of other members of his
household. Does not our Heavenly Father the
same? ‘To whom much is given much is re-
quired," and “He who is faithful over a few things
will.be made ruler over many things.” Have any
great and noble ones gained an eminence through
luxury and ease? Was the path that our blessed
Savior trod lined with roses? Pray not then for
life’s burdens and sorrows to be removed. Rather
pray for strength to endure and wisdom to guide
you. For only through the vicissitudes of labor,
difficulties and sorrows borne with patience,
charity and humility can we gain that experience
which prepares us to be sympathetic, merciful and
just wives and mothers even queens to reign over
our posterity in righteousness.
							A MOTHER.6


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


ENVY. 

	Envy is not a habit; but might be properly
termed a disease, distempter of the mind, that dis-
orders all the faculties of it. It is not contagious
but proves fatal to the peace of mind and happi-
ness of those afflicted with it. 
	An envious person is one that makes himself
miserable contemplating the prosperity of others,


and lamenting his own adversity, his sole object
being to equal or excel his superiors; not so 
much so by exerting himself, or increasing his
own toil and ingenuity, to better his condition, as
by diminishing the merit due to the efforts of
others, while seeking his own elevation at the
cost of another's degradation. He so detests the
sound of praise in any one but self, that if by
chance one extol the virtues of a friend in his
presence, it casts a gloom over his countenance, 
starts the involuntary tear to his eye, and calls
into action, jealousy, revenge, falsehood, and the
lowest passions of the fallen man; and he really
suffers more in his mind and feelings, than if he
was afflicted with the most painful disease, or had
been seriously injured bodily. He is indeed a 
poor creature, and stands sorely in need of the
pity and sympathy of all mankind, from the fact
that his disposition will not allow him to enjoy
himself with anything, at any time, or on any
occasion. 
	Envy is not confined to any class of people, 
neither one portion of the country more than an-
other, but is found existing among the rich and
poor, high and low, and in every land and clime. 
It rages in the breasts of men and women, also
children, and has done ever since the world
was framed. It began with Satan, for after his fall
he could see nothing in Paradise to please him, 
and envied our first parents in their innocence, 
and therefore tempted them to sin. 
	It was this same spirit that caused Cain to kill
his brother Abel, and has been the prime cause of
action which finally terminated in the crucifixion 
of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ, and has led
to the martyrdom of all the prophets both ancient
and modern. 
	Apostle James says, third chapter; "Where
envy and strife is, there is confusion and every
evil work." And we know that the Lord's house
is a house of order, and that His holy Spirit will
not enter where strife and confusion exist; neither
is there peace and happiness in their midst, and
we are desirous of obtaining both, 
	Envy carries so much venom and poison with
it that it alieniates the affections of families, 
friends, associates, and even raises rebelion
against God. Therefore, we should see the great
importance of watching its approach in all its
disguises, and dislodge it before it finds a resting
or abiding place in our hearts. 
	Let us improve the time and talents giveu to
each, instead of envying that which is our neigh-
bors; for excellence is granted only as a reward
of labor, and the envious hate that excellence
which they are too indolent to reach. 
	It has been said and that truly, "The envier
envies all men and no man envies him.” Let us
banish every evil thought from our hearts and
cultivate the spirit of brotherly love and charity
in our soul to all mankind, by seeking to do good
one towards another, and building each other up, 
instead of pulling others down, that when our
life is ended it may be said of us, "She was in-
deed a true Latter-day Saint, humble to God, 
loyal to her country, kind to her family and friends, 
and benevolent to all."
				MISS AGGIE CAMPBELL.
	Manuscript paper 14th Ward.


RELIEF SOCIETY, ST. JOSEPH. 

	My sisters, it is needless to say that after an
absence of over ten years I rejoice in the
privilege of standing before you to report the
St. Joseph Stake of Arizona, where I have
been called to labor in the interest of the
Relief Society. I am proud to represent my
sisters in that far off land, as being faithful to 
the duties and obligations required of them, as
officers and members of that organization, in
providing for the poor, and administering to
the sick; not only in assisting the bishops re-

[Column 2]
lative to the wants of the needy, but in at-
tending funerals, clothing the dead properly, 
and have also been called upon to  speak
consoling words to the bereaved parents and
friends, explaining that beautiful, inspirational
hymn, composed by our late poetess, E. R. 
Snow, revealing the great eternal truth that
we have a mother in heaven; the Great Latter-
day prophet, Joseph Smith revealing the key
of knowledge to unlock the glorious principle
contained in that most consoling of all funeral
hymns, the pre-existence of spirits. The
Sectarian world with the bible in their
hands calling God, Father, consider it blas-
phemy to say we have a mother in heaven, and
that all the people on this earth are the off-
spring of our Father and mother in heaven.
		"Truth is reason, truth eternal
		Tells me I've a mother there."
	These exalting principles we endeavor to 
keep before the rising generation.
	Excuse me, as I was not called upon to 
preach the pre-existence of spirits, or to prove
the fact that there are women in heaven, but
merely to give a report of the St. Joseph Stake
of Arizona. 	
	We have eight organizations, with two
districts not fully organized into branches, 
numbering upwards of three hundred officers
and members. We hold our quarterly con-
ferences regularly with a good attendance. 
We hold our monthly meetings and take into
consideration the nursing of the sick and
treatment of disease. We are trying to hold
our annual fairs, not only to encourage the
Relief Society, but to develop the talent of
the Y. L. M. I. and Primary Associations, and
keep alive all these organizations. And I
can say for the young ladies, they are a credit
to the Stake; we attend all their conferences, 
and also those of the Primary Association.
	At our last fair we had on exhibition a fifty
pound sack of cacoons, raised by Stake Coun-
selor, Mary L. Ransome of the Relief Society. 
The Sisters also are raising some cotton used
mostly for batting; we have assisted in erect-
ing houses of worship in which we can hold
our meetings until we can build Society Halls. 
We have contributed $49.00 to the sufferers
in the Tennessee Massacre; $50.00 to those who
suffered under the rigid enforcement of the
Edmunds Law; $25.00 to assist a widow to 
emigrate; $300.00 to the Pima Hall built of
brick, which would be a credit to any of the
older Stakes of Zion. 	
	I am pleased to say that much credit is due
the sisters for contributing to the circulation 
of the WOMAN'S EXPONENT, and feel to urge
it upon them to continue, inasmuch as the
Associations cannot keep posted relative to 
their duties as officers without it. 
	President Layton attends all our conferences, 
and gives us that encouragement which tends
to the growth and progress of the organization; 
and being a man of experience in this church, 
has made a success of presiding, and coloniz-
ing, redeeming the waste places of Zion, and
encouraging the Saints in building up the
country. He is aware there is gross misrep-
resentation gone abroad relative to the health
of that Stake; it is one of the finest agricul-
tural countries that the Saints have had the
privilege of colonizing and that our Stake
reports will show. The mortality is not so 
great as some of the older Stakes of Utah. 
The Gila river affords as much or more
water for irrigating purposes than the Provo
river. I have seen a crop of wheat or barley
cut in July, and corn planted on the same 
land, each crop yielding fifty bushels and up-
wards per acre. Doubtless many of you are 
acquainted with Philemen Merrill and Wm. 
McBride, who are our patriarchs, together
with their worthy wives, they send kind re-
gards to their numerous friends.


Sister Syrena Merrill is located at St. David
110 miles, where, in connection with her hus-
band, they have not only acted as missionaries,
but as saviors to all who would give heed to 
their counsel.
	Suffice it to say that President Young
labored for twenty-five years; to colonize that
land, keeping missionaries there among the
Indians; and we expect to build up cities to
the name of the Lord, and fulfill the predic-
tion of the prophet Brigham Young if needs
be, with our own emigration, as our enemies
have not the power to stop them from coming
to the earth.
							W. EAST.

	P. S.---Since I came up I have not only attended
the sisters' meetings in Salt Lake City, but also
the sisters' conference in Wasatch Stake, and
afterwards was invited by the Bishops to speak
in the Sabbath meetings, in Charleston and
Wallsburg.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[column 1]
MEETINGS AT FILLMORE.

     On May 25 the Primary conference of
Millard Stake was held at Fillmore, commenc-
ing at 10 a.m., Stake President Mrs. D. Olsen
presiding.  The house was well filled with the
children and parents.  The exercises were well
given, and did great credit to the local Presi-
dents and those who had the training of the
little ones.  The Stake and local authorities 
were present, and President Hinckley in a 
brief speech expressed his great pleasure and
satisfaction with all he had heard; encou-
raged both teachers and children to go for-
ward in the good work, and prayed God to
bless them in all their efforts.
     At 2 p.m., the same day, the Relief Society
of Millard Stake held a quarterly confer-
ence at Fillmore; Mrs. E. Yates presiding;
assisted by her counselors, Mrs. Thompson
and Mrs. Robinson.
     The conference was well attended, and the
reports from the various wards were most
favorable.  All the wards were represented.
     President Yates congratulated the sisters
upon their zeal and good works among the
sick and the needy, and gave much excellent
advice, as did also her counselors, and Stake
secretary Mrs. D. Olsen.
     President Hinckley spoke highly of the work
the sisters were engaged in, and encouraged
them to continue zealous and faithful, that the
Lord might bless them.
     There was a large attendance, and the con-
ference was most interesting and instructive,
an excellent spirit prevailing throughout the
entire meeting.
     At the close of the Relief Society conference
at 4 p.m., A WOMAN SUFFRAGE MEETING was
held, the greater part of the women remain-
ing.  A preliminary meeting was held the
previous evening, when a committee was
appointed to consider and report upon a Con-
stitution and By-Laws for a Woman Suffrage
Association for Millard County.
     On Saturday afternoon the general meeting
was held and the Constitution and By-Laws re-
ported upon by the chairman of the committee,
Mrs. E. Henry.
     The meeting was opened by prayer, the
chaplain, Mrs. McBride officiating; the chair-
man of the day, Mrs. D. Olsen presiding.
The committee retired to decide upon the Con-
stitution, and during their absence, at the re-
quest of the chairman, Mrs. M. A. Y. Green-
halgh delivered the opening address and
stated the object for which the meeting was
convened.  Gave a brief sketch of the struggles
by women for their rights;  quoted Senator 
Blair and others, to show that it was not a 
favor they were asking, but simply the rights
of every citizen to vote for the men who make
the laws, under which they live and must

[column 2]
obey, pointing to the many noble men and 
women who throughout the civilized world
were laboring earnestly and faithfully for the
same.
     On the return of the committee with the
Constitution and By-Laws, they were read and
submitted to the meeting by the chairman, and
were unanimously adopted.  An intermission
of fifteen minutes was then taken, for the en-
rollment of members, to which 45 responded
and paid the membership fee, which had been
fixed at 25 cents.
     The meeting was again called to order, and
the election of officers proceeded with.
     The association is to be called "The Millard
County Woman Suffrage Association,"  with
Mrs. M. A. Y. Greenhalgh as President;
Mrs. D. Olsen, Mrs. Eugene Dalbrook, Mrs.
Melissa Olsen, of Deseret, as Vice-Presidents.
Mrs. E. Henry, Treasurer; Mrs. Lois Hamp-
ton, Secretary; Miss Mary Anderson, Assistant
Secretary, and Miss E. Henry, Corresponding
Secretary, with an Executive committee of
nine, so that all the settlements in the County
are represented in the officers.  The Constitu-
tion adopted is the same as that by the associa-
tion in Salt Lake City.
     Mrs. Greenhalgh again briefly addressed the 
meeting; thanking them for the honor conferred
upon her, and urging upon them the necessity
of unity, for in this only is strength, which in
the end must prevail.
     Mrs. D. Olsen read a very interesting essay,
subject, "Woman's Right to Vote and Her
Ability to use It."
     Mrs. Yates, in a neat and interesting speech,
spoke forcibly upon the subject of "Woman,
Her Labors, and Her Ability, Together With
Her Present Disabilities," and called the at-
tention of the meeting to the work which had
been done and is still being done, by noble
men and women in the cause of freedom and
of right.
     The meeting was a success, all appearing
satisfied with the choice of officers, and the
proceedings generally.
     The meeting terminated at 6 p.m., and was
closed by prayer by Mrs. D. Olsen.
				M. A. Y. GREENHALGH.


ADDRESS TO BISHOP ATWOOD.

	A few moments ago a friend said to me,
“Come and go with us to celebrate the seventy-
second anniversary of our esteemed Bishop,
the roast and feast are all prepared." Well, I
said, if I do, I must take my offering with me,
and here it is—a thought or two—and I was
reminded that forty years ago, in hard times, I
borrowed a wash tub of his wife; then a
stranger to me, but I have known them well
ever since. He was then on a mission. After
forty years of acquaintance what can I say?
I ought to say something, and that something
I am proud to say, is this; that Bishop Millen
Atwood has been everything that one consis-
tent person could ask of another. As a neigh-
bor he has been obliging; as a friend, friendly;
as a father, interested; as a bishop, he handles
your means as prudently and as carefully as
his own; and in fine we may say, that he is
one of the noblemen of the earth. Early to
rise, early to work, and his long life has been
a life of toil.
	His experience has fitted him for his bishop-
ric, hence, he is able to acknowledge the hand
of God. He was a pioneer to this our moun-
tain home. Here he turned the sod, and
prepared the desert to yield support to man.
And God heard his and others’ pravers, until
he sees the hosts around. Did he aid in this?
Yes, he in foreign lands, foot sore and weary,
delivered the message of the Gospel; still afoot
across the plains, he gathered the humble, and
chosen few.
	His chapter is too long to tell in a short


story, but we will aid him on with our love,
faith, and prayers, until he reaches a still higher
seat with the Gods, and is crowned with life
eternal. My friends, now while he lives, and
his head still whitens, may we follow his wise
counsel, and thus be prepared to continue our
acquaintance hereafter. And we pray that
his last days may be most happy and peaceful.
					DR. E. S. BARNEY.
May, 24, 1889.


MRS.  L. D. ALDER’S ADDRESS.

		TO THE W. S. A. IN OGDEN.

	Mrs. President, Ladies and Gentlemen:—I
am little accustomed to public speaking, es-
pecially on the subject of Politics. Our Asso-
ciation in Salt Lake has been organized nearly
four months; I think we have done well, con-
sidering the up-hill work we have had.
	The advancement and education of woman
is one of the main topics of thought and con-
versation among the thinkers of to-day. As
women, we have our family ties, our home
duties, and so many cares upon us, which make
us very weary. It has been said,
	“Man's work, is from sun till sun;
	Woman’s work, is never done.”

	We, most of us, realize this truism; but,
my sisters, though we have all this upon us,
we need not let our thoughts stay with the
menial offices of life.
	While we are in the kitchen, while we ply
the needle, our thoughts can soar as high as
heaven; and we can study upon, and even
think out a subject that engages our interest.
To us as mothers, is entrusted the well-being
(or the opposite,) of immortal souls. Beings
who are destined to live forever. Can this be
successfuly done by the mere care of the
bodily wants ? Must we not think of the
culture and advancement of the mind, the un-
dying intelligence within us? It is not for the
sake of voting only, that so many noble women
such as Mrs. Colby, Mrs. Stanton, Susan B.
Anthony, Mary Livermore and others, have
toiled a life time. 
	A propos of the fact of possessing the
ballot is the power it confers. Women are
naturally pure, noble minded, and would there-
fore vote for men who are also noble minded,
to enforce its laws. In fact, the laws should
be made by good men then they would be good
also. Women should take more inter-
est in the politics of the day. I know that
men say that politics is a dirty puddle in which
pure woman should never dabble. We cer-
tainly could not make the puddle more muddy
ihan it now is; and I believe it would be
cleansed of much of its corruption, by the
wise use woman would make of her influence.
	How shall we become companions to our
husbands and sons if we cannot be interested
in what so interests them?
	A very dear friend of mine, who has long
been a staunch suffragist, told me of an inci-
dent which occured in the life of a friend of
hers. He was a well informed, intelligent, and
highly educated man; his wife was equal to
him in all these attainments. They lived
happily as companions for many years. In
the course of time he was sent as a govern-
ment minister to France; as they had children
he thought it would be best for her to stay
and take care of the family, and of their
beautiful home on the Hudson. The husband,
of course, in the line of his duties, met and
conversed with intelligent men of many nations
upon the topics of the day, government, law,
and all the thousand questions that interest a
man in that position. The loving wife living
quietly in her home on the Hudson, kept him
informed of the welfare of the children, the
home and surroundings. When he returned


at the end of two years, he found that his
thoughts no longer interested his wife; he tried
to tell her of the many experiences he had, the
momentous questions which had been before
him, and the cares which had weighed upon
his mind; but she could not be interested;
her thoughts were narrowed down to the home,
while his encompassed the events of the world.
It grieved him to find that they were no
longer companions; and in speaking of it to
her, he said he had made the mistake of his
life in not taking his wife with him.
	We can take this incident and many that we
see around us, and shape our lives accordingly.
	There is a new era dawning for women all
over the world; and it behooves us, here in
Utah, where we have been disfranchised, to be
up and doing; and be prepared for the better
day, which is not far distant.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


SANDWICH ISLAND LETTER.

		TO MRS. ZINA D. H. YOUNG.

DEAR SISTER:
	Deeming it of sufficient importance that I
should give a short synopsis of our labors in
the Relief Society on the Sandwich Islands, I
submit the following.—At a general confer-
ence of the Church on these Islands held in
October 1888, I was called to preside over the
Relief Society of the Hawaiian Mission with
Sisters S. Y. Gates, Nellie Beesley and Libby
Noall as Counselors, since which time we have
done all we could for our Hawaiian sisters.
	At our late conference held April 6th, a
general conference of all the Societies were
called. I herewith enclose a statistical and
financial report in which it will be seen that
out of the twenty-seven branches now organized
we have seventeen only reported. We have
organized three more branches during the last
six months.
	Representatives from the different branches
made favorable reports showing that most of
the members were active and attended their
meetings. Were it possible for us to visit all the
branches on the Islands we could do much good.
We, have been enabled to visit the sisters
on this Island, with good results; teaching
them habits of industry; many of whom show
an aptitude, and are quite expert in braiding
and making hats, piecing, quilting, knitting
and crocheting, in which they take more in-
terest than in housekeeping, though we have
shown them, inasmuch as circumstances would
permit, the necessity of this. Heretofore the
husbands and fathers have done the most of
the cooking, but foreign customs, habits, and
industries, leave no time for the exercise of
former vocations; hence the necessity of Ha-
waiian women learning kitchen duties. I have
been very much pleased and gratified
with the success that has attended our labors;
there is a marked improvement both spiritual
and temporal among our Hawaiian sisters.
	The return of Sisters Gates, Beesley and
Noall, whom you will likely have the
privilege of meeting will give you more partic-
ulars concerning the progress of the good work
than it will be possible for me to write. With
kind regards I subscribe myself,
		Your Sister in the cause of Zion,
						LUCY M. KING.
	Laie, Sandwich Islands, April 16th, 1889.


A PROGRESSION BACKWARD.

	Ward McAllister, the famous field-marshal
at the Four Hundred, though he succeeded in
bringing himself and his following into merited
disfavor by his and their social flunkeyism be-
fore the centennial inauguration ceremonies, de-
serves more than passing commendation for his
blunt use of the terms “men” and “women.”


If the country will but agree to follow his
fashion in this sensible particular, there are few
who now despise his haughty exclusiveness
who will not be tempted to grant him generous
pardon for all past offences against the popular
democratic idea of what American society
should be. When he spoke of one of his antago-
nists as "that man Fish” he gave, unconscious-
ly or not, a striking example of the strength
and vigor of the English language; and when
he spoke of the “men and women” chosen for
the centennial quadrille, he jumped at once into
a popularity which was perhaps as unexpected
as it was unfamiliar to him.
	We are reminded every day of the effeminate
deterioration of the mother tongue in the use
of less healthy words for the plain old lan-
age which has beoome so dear. It is now
“gentleman” for every human being of the
male persusasion; “lady” for every daughter
of Eve beyond the age of pinafores; and these
two in all sorts of absurd combinations, which
only add useless syllables in order to make the
terms more ridiculous. If an editor and his
wife take a little trip his brother journalists
say he is accompanied by “his lady.” If the
editor happens to be a woman and she is es-
corted by her less prominent husband, the
notice would probably read, “Mrs. So-and-So,
and her gentleman.” If the papers are to
be believed, men have ceased to travel with
their wives now-a-days; in fact, men have
almost ceased to exist. We have a race of
gentlemen and ladies, some of whom perch on
the highest roost of society, while some clean
the boots and scrub the steps.
	If there is any virtue in anniversaries, we
ought to be reminded in this centennial year,
that pure old Anglo-Saxon was good enough
for the patriots and is still better than any
counterfeit. A step back in this respect would
be a step forward. If there is any word in
our language nobler than “man” it is “woman;”
and nothing can be better than these two unless
it is “husband" and “wife.”—Standard.


MISCELLANEOUS

	Forget mistakes; organize victory out of mis-
takes.—Robertson.
	Tears are often the telescope by which men
see far into heaven.—H. W. Beecher.
	God always has an angel of help for those
who are willing to do their duty.—Dr. Cuyler.
	Each feels himself happiest where he can use
his special gift, and labor in the calling as-
signed him by God.—K. V. Gerok.
	Reason cannot show itself more reasonable
than to cease reasoning on things that are
above reasoning.—Sir. Philip Sidney.
	To maintain an opinion because it is thine,
and not because it is true, is to maintain thy-
self, not the truth, and so to prefer thyself
above the truth.—Venning.
	In all things throughout the world the men
who look for the crooked will see the crooked,
and the men who look for the straight will see
the straight.
	Resolve to edge in a little reading every day,
if it is but a single sentence; if you gain fifteen
minutes a day, it will make itself felt at the end
of the year.—Horace Mann.
	None are so fond of secrets as those who do
not mean to keep them; such persons covet
secrets, as spendthrifts covet money, for the
purpose of circulation.—Colton.
	A white garment appears worse with soiling
than colored garments do when much soiled; so
a little fault in a good man attracts more at-
tention than great offenses in bad men.
	The most knowing man in the course of the


longest life will always have much to learn;
and the wisest and best, much to improve.—
Shaftesbury.
     Mrs. Fry, in responding to the address of 
welcome at the Texas State W. C. T. U. con-
vention recently, said: "Men and women must
stand side by side in the home, in the church,
in the schools, the colleges, in all trades, pro-
fessions, business and in the government.  The 
cry of help, help! is going up to God in a thou-
sand different pleas.  Oppressed women,
drunkards’ wives, women in houses of illfame,
the poor, starving sewing women, the prisoners,
slaves in vice, are all bound  by the chains of
sin and shame, which can only be broken by
the energy and zeal of true men and honest
women.  We want men and women to stand
side by side for good."  This is sound
doctrine, and seems to have been well received.
The far South is awaking.				Ex.


OBITUARY.

     Dear Sister.—It becomes my painful duty to request you
to publish the death of our esteemed sister, Anna
Jenkins.  She left her native country, Cownbuck Aberdare
South Wales; and arrived in Salt Lake City, August 20,
1868; she moved with her family to Cache Valley; after-
wards removed to this place.  She died May 13, 1889.
She was treasurer in the Relief Society here ever since
our first organization, and was a very active member,
a true Latter-day Saint, always on hand to do good; was
highly esteemed by all her acquaintances.  The members
of the Relief Society at her funeral, which was largely
attended, formed a procession in advance of the remains
from the house, to the meeting house, a block long.  Ap-
propriate remarks were made by the brethren.  She leaves
three sons, three daughters and forty-one grand-children,
to mourn her loss.
				Reapectfully,
					M. D. DAVIS, President R. S.
Samaria, Idaho.	May, 27, 1889.


R.K. THOMAS
EAGLE EMPORIUM
SALT LAKE CITY.
The Leading Retail
Cash House.
R.K.THOMAS

Special to the Ladies.
AT TEASDEL’S
Will be found the latest styles and productions
in
LACES, RUCHES, EMBRODERIES,
FANS, GLOVES, PARASOLS,
RIBBONS, COLLARS, TIES
And an elegant assortment of
DRY  GOODS:
Special department for Ladies’ Misses’ and In-
fant’s Shoes.
112, 114, 116, 118 East Temple Street

DAVID JAMES & CO. 
TINNERS, GAS,WATER & STEAL FITTERS
Agent for RUMSEY'S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from
the country promptly responded to.
Address, DAVID JAMES, Box 306, SALT LAKE CITY.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 
		The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.
