		SUSANNA BOOTH, Sec'y.

 The report  of  the Primary  Association of
Hyrum City, Cache Co.  Utah.  Organized  by
Bishop O. N. Liljenquist,  with  Miss  L.  Snell-
grove, Pres. and 49  names  enrolled, on March
15, 1879.  Reorganized Oct. 2, 1879, with Mrs.
Lucy Wilson President, and members increased
to 131.  Our meetings  are held Saturday after-
noons, have held  50  meetings.  On  Tuesday
March  15,  1881,  we held our Annual meet-
ing, Mrs. Lucy Wilson presiding.  Singing by
the children	"The day  dawn is  breaking,"
prayer by Coun. James Unsworth, singing "We
thank thee O  God &c.  After which  the fol-
lowing report was read.  Received in donation,
$405.  wheat  gleaned  4 bus, 41  lbs;  we have
made and paid to the  Logan Temple 1  quilt,
at $5.00; paid  for  rewards  of merit $1.20,
and for a record Book, 95  cts;  wheat in  Re-
lief  Society  granary  4 bush, and  41  lbs.
Made a surprise party for sick  girl, and pres-
ented her  with  a  dress  worth  $2.  Report
accepted after  which Sister  C. Liljnquist Pres.
of the Relief  Society  and  other  sisters spoke
very  encouragingly  to the  children, and ex-
horted them to be good  and kind, obedient to
their parents, &c.  Bro. J. Unsworth spoke, on
Jesus  blessing  little  children,  "for of such is
the  Kingdom  of Heaven  likened  &c.  The
following  officers  were  then  elected. Mrs.
Lucy Wilson  President, Ingre  Tellefsen, and
Emma Liljenquist Counselors;  and Rebecca
Nielsen Secretary;  and Mrs. Alice  Unsworth,
Cor. Sec'y., and  Nancy Anderson Treasurer.
President Lucy Wilson said there would be an
entertainment given  in  the meeting house the
same evening, by the  children of the Primary
Association.  Benediction  by  Brother H.
Thorsen.
 Entertainment by the Primary Association,
Hyrum, Utah,  Selections  from  Book of Mor-
mon, repeating 12 verses from Christ's Sermon
on the  Mount  also  the  10  Commandments,
dialogues, songs,  quartettes, &c.,  all of which
was enjoyed very  much  by all  present,  the
little folks doing remarkably well.  Our meet-
ing house, being  pretty  well  filled, all went
away, feeling that they had  been well paid in
attending the little folks first entertainment by
the Primary.  Proceeds  from  sale  of Tickets,
at 5 and  10 cents each, $14.58 to go  for the
benefit of said Association.
		LUCY WILSON PRESIDENT,
