OUR  VISIT.
 We, the  people  of  Mt.  Carmel, feel that we
were highly blessed by having a visit from our
beloved sisters,  Eliza R. Snow Smith, Zina D.
Young  and  Minerva Snow. Although their
visit  was  short,  we  highly appreciated it;  I
think we would be very ungrateful if we could
feel otherwise, for they surely seem to have the
same  spirit  and  influence  that  our  beloved
Prophet  and Seer  Joseph Smith had, and that
his  Apostles  have.  Their  hearts  were  full of
love and their lips flowed with good counsel for
the sisters and  their  children,  whom  they  have
been  called  to  organize  into  Primary  Associa-
tions.  They organized  a  Primary  Association
in our little settlement, for which we feel thank-
ful.  We  all,  both  old  and  young,  loved the
meek and  charitable  spirit  they manifested
while here. We have  read  and  heard very
much  of  these  sisters  and the good they were
doing,  through  the  power  and  will  of our
Heavenly Father, and  by the counsel  and au-
thority  of his Holy  Priesthood,  that  He has
placed here  on the earth to lead, guide and di-rect his  children  here;  and  if  we strictly
hearken  to  their counsels it will prove a great
blessing to us, both here and hereafter.
 Since I wrote the above my husband, Henry
B. M. Jolly has  returned home from  a  short
mission  to  the  Southern  States,  feeling  well
both  in  body and  mind, and full of the spirit
of his mission;  seven of his relatives have come
home with him, and  there  are  many more in
that  country that seem to believe every princi-
ple  of  life and salvation that the Elders of Is-
rael teach them, through the Spirit of power
of our  Heavenly  Father. This work will roll
on with great and mighty power.  We can see
the prophecies being fulfilled continually, that
have  been  prophesied  by  both  ancient and


modern  prophets,  concerning  the  people of
Zion here  upon  the  earth  in  these last days.
So, dear  readers, let us, with  all our mind and
might, do all we can to help roll on the work
of the Almighty, that  He  has  established  in
these  last  days.  We  should  never speak one
word  against  any principle  that the Lord has
revealed  to  us  through  his  prophets, for his
children to be  governed by, and we should  do
all  in  our  power  to  raise  our  children, to be
honorable, honest and upright men and women
in the kingdom of our Heavenly  Father, and
do unto others as we would have others do unto
us, and  never, no, never, try to tear down our
brethren and sisters  to  build  ourselves up; if
we do, I fear  that sooner or later we  will fall
into the pit  that  we  prepare  for  others.  May
we  ever  be  careful  to  look  well  to  our own
short-comings instead  of  our neighbors, is the 
sincere  prayer  of  your  sister  in the Gospel of
peace.
