CONSECRATED  LOOKING GLASSES.

 We read in Exodus, 38th chapter, 8th  verse,
that  Moses “made the  laver  of  brass, and  the
foot  of  it  of brass, of the looking glasses of the
women.” This  laver  was  one of  the  most  im-
portant  articles  of  service  in  the worship  of
the tabernacle.  It  stood  between  the  brazen
altar  and  the  entrance  of  the  sanctuary, the
altar and the layer being the  only two articles
of the holy furniture  that were placed without
the tabernacle.  The  candlestick,  the  table of
shewbread, the incense  altar  and  the  ark, all
of  gold, were  within,  unseen  by  the  outside
spectator.  The order  in  which these  two, the
altar  and  the  laver,  were  approached  by the
priest on  entering the  sanctuary,  were signifi-
cant—first was  the  great  altar  on which  the
victim bled, and  then  after  this the laver  was
reached, indicating  that  faith  in  the  atoning
sacrifice  of  Christ and baptism  for  the  remis-
sion  of  sins  are to precede the entrance of the
soul into the inner  sanctuary,  where  the Holy
Ghost may be received and the gifts and graces
of  spiritual  growth  enjoyed.
 We read that Moses manufactured  the beau-
tiful  laver  out  of  the  looking  glasses  of the
women, the  polished brazen mirrors which, be-
fore  the  invention  of  glass,  performed their
functions in private  and  domestic  life.  Now,
such  an  act was  not  an  accident, nor  is  the
record  of it  an  accident.  Everything  in the
Jewish tabernacle,  and  its  story  teems  with
spiritual significance.  It is holy ground.  Every
order here given comes from the heart of God.
To make it empty, or meaningless, would be to
blaspheme  the  Most  High.  The ancient Jew-
ish ritual was full of symbolic  instruction, and
great  spiritual  and  practical truths were  con-
stantly  presented  to  them  in  the  types  and
shadows of their daily ceremonial worship.
 The fact  that  this  laver which  was  in  con-
stant  and  daily use was  composed of the look-
ing  glasses of the women  of  Israel, must  have
associated  itself  with  great  tenacity with  the
sacred  basin  in  the  minds  of  all  Jewish  be-
holders.
 The  tabernacle was set up by Moses, under
the  direction  of  the  Almighty,  in  the wilder-
ness, and the materials for its construction were
the freewill  offerings  of  the  people.  The wood
men contributed  bracelets,  tablets,  jewels of
gold and  offerings  of  silver and brass.  Among
those offerings were the brazen looking  glasses.
The  looking  glass is the best representation of
that microcosm of individuality which is known
by the French  word  toilette.
 There is  a  proper  attention  to  this  depart-
ment  of  life necessary to meet the demands  of
cleanliness and neatness in both sexes;  but that
which is rightly used for  the  modest  purposes
of  personal  cleanliness  may  very  easily  be
abused  for  immodest  purposes  of  vanity  and
display.  It  was  probably to warn the women
of Israel against this temptation that the look-
ing glasses alone were used in the construction
of  the laver.  This  emblem of holiness said in
its symbolism, “Ye women of Israel beware
vain show.  Waste  not  your  precious time on
vanity, frivolity  and  selfish  adornments,  but
rather employ it in cultivating the graces which
adorn  a  holy life, and  in  deeds of mercy and
charity  to  others.  Obedience  is  better  than
sacrifice,  and  purity  of  heart  more  acceptable
than  vain oblations. This voice yet speaks in
sacred history, and the injunctions of the Apos-
tles  Peter  and  Paul  still reiterate, the  same
teachings to  the  daughters  of  Zion.  Can  the
mothers and daughters of modern Israel afford
to  disregard  and  slight  these  express  and  re-
peated  teachings  of  their  God,  their  Father
and  their King? How  much  precious  time
and  valuable  talent  is  to-day  squandered  on
personal adornment which ought to be utilized
for our  own individual improvement and for
the instruction  and  benefit  of  others.  We
have come out from Babylon, that we may not


be  partakers  of  her plagues, and  yet we bring
the vanities  of  Babylon  into Zion, and prac-
tise her  follies  in the city of the Saints.  If I
were  required  to  point  out  one  of  the most
alarming  sins  in  this city to-day, one which is
deceitful in its influences, most demoralizing in
its  effects  upon  the female character, it would
be the love of  display and the blind submissions
to  the dictates of fashion on the part  of those
who, by  birth  or  profession, ought  to  claim a
place  as  daughters  of  the  King  of  kings.
While open vice sends its thousands  to  perdi-
tion, these fashionable and favored indulgences
draw  off  tens  of  thousands  from  the  ways  of
life  and salvation.  They sear  the  conscience,
encrust the  soul with an  impenetrable shell of
worldliness, distract  the  affections  from  every
high  and  holy object, and  make  the poor, be-
dizened  creature  a worshipper  of  self, a  rival
of the peacocks.  "The  king's daughter is all
glorious within," said the wise man.  She needs
no  jewel  upon  hand  or  brow,  no  pearls  or
costly array  to  prove her  royal lineage.  The
attributes  of  her  kingly  nature  shine  with
added  lustre  as  she  stoops  to perform acts of
mercy and goodness to even the meanest of her
Father's  subjects,  and  before  the  radiance of
her triple crown  of purity, love  and  fidelity,
the  diamonds  of  a  monarch's  diadem  would
"pale their ineffectual fires."
Let  us  then,  my  sisters, as  women  of Zion;
daughters of the King  of kings, dedicate our-
selves  and  all  we  have  to  the  service  of our
God, that His Temple  may arise  in  its  glory.
Following  the  example  of  the Jewish women
of old, may we freely offer even our most cher-
ished  articles  of  personal  adornment  to  be
used  for  higher  and  holier  purposes, and  as
the  prophet  foretold  that  in  the  latter  days
there should be written  even  upon the bells of
the  horses "Holiness  to the Lord," so may we,
as  women  of the  true Israel, consecrate  even
our looking glasses to the Most High.
		Ellen B. Ferguson.


