R. S. Y. L. M. I. A. AND PRIMARY
		REPORTS.
	SPRINGVILLE.
EDITOR EXPONENT: The Anniversary meet-
in of the Y. L. M. I. A.,  of Springville con-
vened in the meeting house Mar. 15 1881, Pres.
Caroline  Whiting presiding.  After  the usual
exercises of singing,  prayer  and  calling  the
roll, minutes of the  last anniversary  meeting,
Constitution  and  By-laws of the  Association
were read  by Sec'uy., followed by  reading of
programme  in  observance  of  which  several
speeches, songs, recitations,  Bible and Book of
Mormon,  exercises  were  given in a  lively and
interesting manner.  Statistical and Financial
reports from  the  different  departments, were
read and accepted.  Officers of the Association
were re-elected with  the  exception of the  2nd
and  5th, counselors,  who  had  previously re-
signed, and in whose stead others were  chosen
to  act.  Closing remarks by  Bishop Wm.
Bringhurst, urging the  sisters to be  energetic
and diligent  their labors  and spoke  highly
of the marked improvement, manifested during
the last year.  Meeting  closed  with  singing
and  prayer.  The  annual  meeting,  together
with the Y. L. M. I. A. party which came off
the  following evening has effected more unison
and interest amongst the members. With best
wishes for  the success of the Improvement As-
sociations of Zion.
	We remain, 
		CAROLINE WHITING, Pres.
	CLARA SNOW, Cor., Sec’y.
Minutes of Meeting of the Primary Associa-
tion of the Bear Lake Stake, met in Conference
with the Relief Societies,  March  7th,  1881, in
the St.  Charles  Meeting  House, at 2  P. M.
Meeting called to  order by  President  Annie
Laker singing by  the  Choir, “Praise Ye The
Lord,” prayer  by  Bishop  J.  Hunt, singing.
Roll called, Statistical  and  Financial  reports
were read.  Verbal reports were given by the
presidents of the various Associations; showing
there is a great amount of  good being done in
these  organizations.  President  Annie  Laker
gave general good instructions to the presidents
and  officers  of  the  associations, also to  the
parents of the children.  Counseled the parents
to encourage their children to be  punctual  in
attending their meetings, and  the necessity of
training them in  honesty  before  God, and to
remove  all prejudice of  an  evil  nature from
their minds.  The remainder of the  afternoon
was occupied  by the  Relief  Societies.  Con-
ference  adjourned for six months.
ANNIE LAKER, President.
ELIZABETH PUGMIRE
ELIZABETH HUNT.
