[WomansExponent | Vol7 | 1878 | June | Issue: 2 | Title: CHEERFULNESS. | Author: Unknown]

CHEERFULNESS.

	"It gives to beauty half its power
		The nameless charm worth all the rest
	The light that dances o'er the face,
		And speaks of sunshine in the breast."

	The person who possesses a cheerful tem-
perament is one to whom the heart instinc-
ively turns for society and sympathy.
Cheerful people do a vast amount of good
in this world by buoying up and encourag-
ing others. It is a virtue in itself and a
promoter of happiness inward and out-
ward. It is not simply an act but a habit
of the mind, and one which should be nour-
ished and cultivated; it is as beneficial as
the sunshine, and as capable of reflection.
I do not wish to be understood as applying
the term to something short lived and tran-
sient, but that which is fixed, permanent
and abiding. Cheerfulness cannot be said
to give the mind or the person exquisite
or overwrought gladness, but is an anti-
dote against falling into the depths of sor-
row. It is not like a brilliant flash of viv-
id lightning that breaks suddenly through
a gloomy mist of clouds and glitters efful-
gently for a brief, transitory moment, but it
keeps a kind of daylight in the mind and
fills it completely with a calm and never-
failing serenity. The person who is cheer-
ful, is happy to a certain extent, not laugh-
ing loudly, or ever overflowing with ex-
cessive mirth, these are not indications of
joy. Goldsmith said: "And the loud laugh-
ter that spoke the vacant mind," but
wearing a smile always, unless under the
presence of some heavy affliction. The
great and good effect of a cheerful temper-
ament upon those around us can scarcely be
estimated; the influence is contagious, it re-
flects itself and diffuses itself around upon
all that come within the circle of its radia-
tion.
	Cheerfulness leads to genuine kindness
and affability. Most persons can be endow-
ed with this precious gift if they rightly
appreciate its possession, and seek to culti-
vate it. I can see only two reasons that
could tear this happiness from us, and they
are these, an inward consciousness of guilt,
and disbelief in a Supreme Being. An
atheist can never wear the same smile of
innocence, although infidels are, judging
from what I have ever heard, or read, giv-
en, at times, to excessive mirth but usually
inclined to melancholy, "and the glance of
melancholy is a fearful gift." Cheerfulness
is ever consistent with the spirit of our
holy religion.
	ANNA.
S. L. City, March 13, 1876.	A. W. G.


MISS ALETTA Jacobs has obtained the de-
gree of Doctor of Medicine in Holland. It
is the first time the title has been conferred
upon a lady in that country. She intends
to practice in Amsterdam.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

	THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
EMMELINE B. WELLS.     Editor.
	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: One copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months,
1.00. Ten copies for the price of nine.  Advertising
rates: Each square, ten lines of nonparell space, one
time, $2.00; per month, $3.00. A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
	Exponent office, corner of South Temple, and First
East streets, opposite Eagle Gate. Business hours from 10
a.m. to 5 p.m. every day except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
			Publisher WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
				Salt Lake City, Utah.
