child must have three more births after its physical birth, each more painful than the first. It must be born into a world of self realization, into the life of the social group, and into a world of ideal values."?Dr. Edwin D. Starbuck.
LESSON 4
Social Service (Fourth Week in October)
PERSONALITY STUDY: UNDERSTANDING AND CONTROLLING HUMAN BEHAVIOR
Introduction to Social Service Lessons, 1930-31
In the class work in social service for this season there is to be a series of nine lessons based upon the adopted text and the material presented in this department of the Relief Society Magazine. The text is Overstreet's Influencing Human Behavior, which may be purchased at a very reasonable price. The committee in charge of this work in each ward or branch should make an effort to place individual copies of the text in the hands of as many members of their organization as possible, as this one thing alone will do much to insure the success of the course and help in the personal growth of each member.
Books containing valuable supplementary material, listed in the order of their availability and helpfulness in this course are the following:
Poulson, M. W.?Human Nature in Religious Education. West, P. V. And Skinner, C. E.?Psychology for Religious and Social Workers. Jastrow, J.?Keeping Mentally Fit. Bagby, E.?The Psychology of Personality.
What shall we say is the keynote of this course of lessons? In his preface the author of our text says: "Nowadays children are persons; and the task of parents is to be real persons themselves to such an extent that their children accept them as of convincing power in their lives." And then he asks by way of further focusing of attention on our task: "How, in short, can we actually change individuals?ourselves as well as others?into personalities more apt for our human enterprise?"
Dean H. M. Woodward has recently given what to the writer is even a more challenging statement of the same general problem. He says: "There is no greater job and no more profitable undertaking than the improvement of our own lives. We cannot dream ourselves into a great life. We must simply take ourselves in hand where we are and with patience and determination overcome those weaknesses which hold us back."
A tentative outline of the lessons of the course is as follows:
1. Understanding and Controlling Human Behavior (See text, pp. 1-27).
2. The Psychology of Persuasion (pp. 28-70).
3. The Psychology of Conversation, Writing and Public Speaking (pp. 71-109).
4. Making Ideas Stick (pp. 110-139).
5. How to Change Persons (pp. 143-168).
6. Habits and Growth (pp. 169-183, 209-216).
7. Thinking Straight (pp. 184-200).
8. The Creative Mind (pp. 217-255).
9. Effectiveness of Humor (pp. 256-277).
Throughout these lessons the common interest of our particular group in "understanding and improving social conditions" will be kept in mind. Those phases of psychology that are mainly abstract and of mere theoretical interest will be omitted. It will be recognized, however, that very many discerning mothers who have had little or no training in academic psychology are nevertheless rather good "practical psychologists" in the sense that they already have considerable valuable knowledge and experience in understanding and controlling the behavior, especially of children.
The reading suggested in connection with each lesson should be regarded not as a task but as an important means to aid in the accomplishment of our main purpose, i.e., the enhancement of our personalities so that we may "become skilled artists in the enterprise of life."
How shall we mark our personal copies of the text so as to record our personal reactions to the material and make them more serviceable as aids in our class discussions? The writer knows of no better device than the conservative and judicious marking of the books and magazines that we ourselves own by means of vertical lines in the outside margins. These lines may be single, double, or treble for different degrees of emphasis and should, perhaps, not be placed nearer than one-eighth of an inch to the edge of the printing. The common practice of extensive underlining tends to literally blot out important parts and does not make possible the indication of different degrees of importance. Parts on which you feel the need of help from others in understanding or on which you would express disagreement might well be indicated by small question marks in the margin. Some of these may later be neatly erased when they have served their purpose.
Read carefully the first twenty-seven pages of the text and if possible exchange ideas on some of the points there considered before the class discussion is held.
Supplementary References
Poulson?Human Nature (pp. 1-5, 14-19, 48-49, 55-56). (This book was used in the Teacher Training Course during 1927-28 and used copies are probably still to be found in most wards of the Church. An effort might well be made to locate some of these copies.)
Problems for Discussion
1. In the author's Foreword and Preface locate several slightly different statements of what constitutes the "major art of life" or the "central problem" of the proposed course. Read these and comment briefly on each.
2. Comment on the first paragraph on page four of our main text.
3. What does the phrase "salvaging of human life" suggest to you? To what extent do our own lives need salvaging?
4. The book begins with a consideration of some of the commonly neglected simple methods of influencing human behavior. Which of those mentioned in the first chapter do you think are most commonly effective? Most commonly neglected?
5. Give one or two original illustrations to bring home the truth of the statement that "we influence others very largely in ways far more real than we suspect." (See p. 15.)
6. The first half of page sixteen suggests the following quotation from Swift: "Be sure that the home is a peaceful place except for the joyous activity of children. Never call from one room to another. Never raise your voice above a tone that indicates composure." Is it a fact that in our homes we use the most "wretched techniques" for influencing human behavior? Suggest some needed improvements in this connection.
7. Compare opinions as to the most helpful suggestion obtained from this lesson to increase the efficiency of social workers or visiting teachers in the Relief Society.
God's Idea
By Samuel