Protect Milk Supply Any community which has a sense of decency and of civic pride will endeavor to protect its milk supply so that its citizens may be assured of wholesome and sanitary milk. Is your milk supply safeguarded? Does your town or city have a milk ordinance? Is any means for adequate enforcement provided by your city? These are questions of the greatest importance to your health and to the health of your family. The importance of milk both: as a food and as a conveyor of disease cannot be too greatly stressed. Milk is the only standard article of diet obtained from animal sources consumed in its raw state. It contains, furthermore, all the essential elements of a well-balanced diet both for children and for adults. Yet everyone knows how easily milk spoils, how readily it decomposes, and how difficult it is to obtain and deliver it in a clean, fresh and satisfactory condition. A striking characteristic of an infected milk is the absence of any signs whereby infection may be recognized. The milk may be perfectly normal in appearance and in taste, yet be full of typhoid, diptheria or other germs. Frequently epidemics, directly traced to an infected milk supply, bring sharply to public attention the necessity for Eternal Vigilance over milk supplies. It is very important to keep the milk clean after it is collected. All bottles should be sterilized and the hands should not be allowed to come in contact with the milk or the inside of the bottles. Flies and dirt should not gain access to the milk at any time. In spite of the care exercised in many places in collecting milk, a certain amount of infectious material gains entrance to milk after it is collected. To prevent these organisms getting 
 into the body and so causing disease, pasteurization is widely practiced. Proper pasteurization of milk, defined by the United States Department of Agriculture and Boards of Health of various cities and states, is the process by which milk is held for thirty minutes at temperature ranging from 142? to 145? Fahrenheit and thereafter immediately cooled. The automatic recording thermometer to pasteurize milk is essential to proper pasteurization and quite universally used today. Proper pasteurization destroys any pathogenic organisms, which might be present in milk, such as streptococci and those bacteria causing typhoid scarlet fever, and diphtheria. Surveys have definitely proved that pasteurization has very largely reduced the infantile death rate caused by intestinal disturbances. Pasteurization should not be a substitute for sanitation. Only clean milk produced under sanitary conditions should be used for human consumption under any circumstances. Within many pasteurization plants of high standard in this country there is being established a laboratory wherein a chemical analysis, a bacteria count and sediment test may be made weekly of the milk from each shipper by a competent bacteriologist. Frequently shippers are paid on quality determined on the basis of these tests and a eae offered for the milk scoring the highest. Where such standards of quality are demanded, pasteurization would be used only to make clean milk, safe milk. The problem of pasteurization should not be based simply on the question of which is preferable, raw milk or pasteurized milk, but rather upon the most practicable method of maintaining a safe milk supply for the greatest number. Women of Utah, cooperate with your State Board of Health, State Department of Agriculture and State Dairymen's Association in a State wide milk sanitation program, which is now under" way. Learn from them correct information concerning the milk problem in your State and local community. It is not only the right but the duty of every mother to know where her dairyman rates on the scale of safety. Oft we find our Savior's image in a charnal house of Foes,, Or in the slime of sewer see the bruized heart of a rose. Oft we pluck a snowy lily from a cluttered bed of stone, Oft in the heart of Wanton see His pardon find a home. So in the frozen mountain does the Eidelweiss take form,: hp on n the: white hot desert, is the Regal Poplar born. ?Julia 'C. Baker.