Sweden, the Land of the Vikings
By Clara J. Fagergren
Sweden, the land of the Vikings, is a place of marvelous scenery, historical legends, class distinction, and lovable, honest people. Here are century-old castles full of priceless art treasures dating back to the very early history of the North; parks and gardens in the most intricate designs of landscape architecture and blazing in a riot of colors; wonderful forests of birch and spruce which belong mostly to a few favored titled aristocrats; shimmering lakes alive with steamers and chugging motor boats; high-class people riding disdainfully by in costly automobiles, and masses of serious-faced, shabby toilers struggling to make a living. The very high cost of ground and building material prohibits building on an individual scale, and therefore the working-man is forced to pay a ruinous rent. A small flat of one or two rooms costs from fifty to seventy-five crowns per month, half the wages of a worker. Often a family of eight and ten live in quarters designed for half that number in order to cut down on expenses. Yet, in spite of the crowded conditions the living quarters are kept spotlessly clean and cheerful with blooming plants, white curtains, and floors that are scrubbed on hands and knees every week. Tenement houses here are large buildings of five and six stories, quite imposing in appearance, and bright with flowering shrubs and vines. Bathtubs are mighty scarce in this country, only the rich can afford a private bathroom. The weary traveler and the common mob go to public "badinr?ttning" or bathhouse. For fifty ore, which is fifteen cents, one receives a hot soak up to the neck, a vigorous scrubbing with a stiff brush by the bath lady, an elderly woman who manipulates her brush on men and women alike, and a cold douche. After this rough treatment one comes out of the water feeling as good as new. Between times, there is nothing to hinder one from jumping into a lake or a river; the shores are lined with open-air bathhouses, and those who demand absolute privacy simply take a row boat and paddle out a mile or two to the wide open spaces where they can dive and splash to their hearts' content. All Swedes are good rowers and swimmers for they have been trained from earliest childhood on the water. Stockholm seems to be the gathering place of all the tourists who come to Sweden. English, German, and French are spoken in all the large hotels and stores, but the wily shop keepers set their prices higher for visitors than for their own countrymen. Sight-


seeing in the Capital is delightful indeed, for nowhere else in this country can so many relics of ancient grandeur be found. Steamers from all countries in the world lie at anchor in the harbors; and little tugboats of all descriptions hurry noisily between the many islands on which the city is built. A large Turkish steamer carrying a huge exhibition of Oriental goods is the center of attraction just now. A few days ago the motor ship Gripsholm, most modern of Swedish steamers, made the trip to these waters and several thousand visitors thronged the decks to view the magnificence of the boat. A tour of the royal castle is interesting and enlightening. Vast stretches of rooms containing piled up treasures costing fortunes, and multitudes of portraits and paintings, are stored there. Banquet halls and reception salons and amusement rooms are massed with statuary, old china, inlaid cabinets, and antique bric-a-brac, yet none of these suites are in use for they belonged to old king Oscar II and Queen Sophie. The present king, Gustaf V, and his queen, Victoria, occupy different quarters in the castle and no one is permitted to visit there unless specially invited. During the Summer months the royal family is to be found at one of their many pleasure homes by the seaside. Sometimes they spend a week or two at Drottningholm, a magnificent castle a few miles out from Stockholm and situated on an island with miles of choice gardens and old woods. It was here that the celebrated Gustaf III erected a grand theatre where the newest plays were tried out by famous artists; and here he also laid out a costly French garden with fountains and statuettes. The upkeep of the garden alone costs $60,000 per Summer, and the people are taxed to pay for all this luxury. The poorest worker is taxed 10% of his income here in Sweden. Every member of the royal family down to the latest born infant receives hundreds of thousands of crowns for his support, and this money is appropriated from the public treasury. The clergy, ministers and bishops, receive large salaries, and the people also have to foot this bill. All expenses pertaining to churches are paid out of public funds. So it can be readily seen that a common worker stands small chance of owning anything but a plot in the pauper cemetery. And the most pathetic part of it is that the poorer classes have been ground under the heel so long that they seem to think they were born to inherit nothing but poverty, struggle, and hard work, while the aristocracy welter in idleness and dissipation. Small wonder that the emigrant who can lay hands on a steerage ticket welcomes the chance to settle in America where he can at least acquire a home for himself. The more one sees of this country the more one appreciates the advantages a citizen of the United States enjoys.
SWEDEN, THE LAND OF THE VIKINGS 515
There are people who never have fire enough to keep them warm through the winter, here in this country where great piles of wood lie rotting in the vast forests. The reason is that the owners of the forests don't want to be bothered with trafficking in wood, and therefore, the fuel that is available is prohibitive in price. Everything is restricted. We tried to buy some fruit in a corner stand one evening but were refused because it was against police orders to sell fruit after seven o'clock evenings. One could roam the country indefinitely and always discover new places of interest. In the stately House of Lords, by Norrstrom, one walks into the imposing assembly room where the walls are covered with the shields of all the aristocrats that have held seats as representatives. There are thousands of shields with mottoes and coats of arms of proud dukes and counts whose portraits adorn the picture gallery in two big rooms. Needless to mention, the noblemen enact laws that will benefit them alone, and they regard the common people as tailors who are needed to do the work. Luckily the aristocrats are now in minority, the legislators or "riksdagsmen" are voted in by the people, and the proceedings pertaining to the interests of the land take place in the court house, lately erected at a cost of many million crowns. This large structure is unique in style. It contains among its many apartments an immense banquet hall large enough to seat 800 people. Here the walls are entirely inlaid with mosaic in the most artistic and bewildering designs, depicting scenes from the old Nordic history. Heavy silk draperies, made to order in Italy, adorn walls and windows, and velvety, rose-colored carpets cover the floors. And all this barbarous splendor in a land where a lot of women and children go barefooted for lack of a pair of shoes. There is also the middle class, living in comfortable circumstances and enjoying many pleasures of which we people in Utah have no knowledge. There are boating parties, forest picnics, swimming contests, and first and foremost, eating entertainments. Yesterday we managed to cram down three meals in five hours. We thought the invitation was for a simple afternoon affair like we have at home, but the table was reset several times, and we stuffed from the finest fish with horseradish gravy to the daintiest of pastries. Lucky indeed is the traveler who is taken in hand by kind friends and showered with attentions. We had the pleasure of meeting President and Sister Talmage in Gothenburg and later in Stockholm, where they attended conferences. In both places members of our Church were delighted to meet these honored guests. They had


spent days in beautifying and decorating the meeting houses with flowers and birch branches for the arrival of Brother and Sister Talmage. President and Sister Talmage never looked better in their lives and they enjoyed their visit to Sweden immensely, but were pressed for time, and were forced to
STOCKHOLM, REDDARHOLMOKYRNAN
cut their visit short on account of other conference dates. The weather here is considerably cooler than at home, and one feels quite comfortable wearing a wrap when out. At first we had a hard. Time going to sleep while it was still daylight, for now is the time of the midnight sun, and one can read newspaper print throughout the night without artificial light, At two o'clock in the morning farmers are' out SWEDEN, THE LAND OF THE VIKINGS 517 cutting grain, and going about their work, for the summer sea-. Un is short and every minute of daylight must be utilized. The flavor of fruit and vegetables is unsurpassed, and they mature very fast in continuous daylight. Although living is said ito be high, the people we have seen seem to live well. Workmen carry lunch boxes the size of small trunks containing bottles of milk, tureens of soup, bowls of fish and potatoes, glasses of stewed fruit. He scorns a simple meal of sandwiches. He demands food and 'plenty of it.