WEBER STAKE OF ZION.

	The seventh Quarterly Conferance of the
Relief Society, was held Thursday and
Friday, September 18 and 19, in the
Ogden Tabernacle Pres. Jane S. Richards
was absent in consequence of sickness in
her family. The other officers of the
organization were on the stand; also Pres.
Sarah Herrick and Coun. Emily Richards
of the central board of the Y. L. M. I. A. of
Weber Co., and Pres. E. R. Snow and Mrs
E. Howard of Salt Lake City and several
presidents of branch societies, Coun. L. J.
Herrick, Bishops R. McQuarie and P. G.
Taylor and Elder D. M. Stuart were present.
Conference opened with the usual exer-
cises. On nomination by Pres. E. R. Snow,
Mrs. E. Howard was appointed Secretary
pro tem. Sec. Frodshem being too ill to
preform the duties of her office, Minutes of
last Conference were read by Mrs. Emily
Richards and accepted. Statistical and
financial reports of the branch societies
were read by Mrs. E. Howard. All were
represented as being in a prosperous con
dition,

[Column 2]
	Coun. L. J. Herrick then addessed the
assembly. Thanked God for the many
mercies and blessing vonch safed to us; and
prayed that His spirit and blessings might
rest upon the Conference, and upon those
detained at home with the sick.
	Pres. E. R. Snow made a few remarks:
had been much interested in listening to the
reports; counseled the sisters to be diligent
in attending their meetings, for in so doing
they would receive a blessing which they
could get in no other way.
	Afternoon Session: After singing and
prayer, Pres. E. R. Snow said to the presi-
dents of branches, that they were espected
to report verbally, and she wished to hear
of the moral status of society in their sever-
al places of residence. The statistical and
financial reports which had been read, did
not tell of the spiritual influence exerted
by the sisters, of the increase of good acts
among them, nor of their feelings towards
each other.
	The following presidents then occupied a
short time in speaking. Mrs. H. Lamont
of the first Ward, Ogden City, Mrs. Mary
West, second Ward: Mrs. D. White, third
Ward, Mrs. H. Ballantyne, fourth Ward.
Mrs. Shurtliff, Harrisville; Mrs. Bickington,
Mariett: Mrs. Belknap, Hooperville, Mrs.
Bird, Lynne; Mrs. Fields, Slatersville, Mrs.
Maycock, Hot-Spring district.
	Pres. E. R. Snow addressed the Con-
ference. She said, it is not the talented
alone, but the willing, that are most useful.
Whatever ability we possess is for the
general interest, and in order to improve
society we should improve ourselves. She
considered that the presidents, in reporting
were educating themselves to do more
good; it was not for their aggrandizement,
but to make them more useful. Jesus said
"let him who would be greatest among you,
be the servant of all."
	We work in the light of revelation, and
God requires us to make use of such mat-
erial as we have to get knowledge. She
counseled mothers to read good books and
to seek for wisdom and understanding.
We are too apt to run in the direction of
the world. We are formed of the earth
and are inclined to give the rule to the flesh
instead of the Spirit. We should reflect
upon these subjects and guard against ex-
tremes. She also made some remarks upon
the principle of Plural Marrige, the ful-
fillment of prophecy, and the necessity of
keeping our covenants sacred.
	Mrs. E. Howard: Through the Relief
Society organization we are placed in a
position to improve ourselves. We should
study the laws of nations, especially those
of our own, and educate ourselves, that we
may be able to teach our children the prin-
ciples of truth and righteousness. She gave
some instructions to the secretaries of the
R. S.; referred to the principle of Plural
Marriage, also to some of the teachings of
our Savior.
	Sec. A. M. Frodsham said she felt grate-
ful for the privilege of attending the Con-
ference. She desired spiritual food. The
Gospel of Christ was her all. She thanked
God, she had never doubted the truth of
this work. Prayed that she might be rest-
ored to health and live to do good.
	Bishop McQuarie made a few spirited
remarks. He felt blessed in attending the
R. S. Conference, was pleased with the
labors of the Sisters, and wished to do every
thing in his power to assist and encourage
them. Conference adjourned until Friday
morning, September 19.
	Friday morning session: After the open-
ing exercises the reports of the Y. L. M. I.
A. of Weber Co. and the Primary Associa-

[Column 3]
tion of Ogden City, were read by Mrs. E.
Howard. The presidents made brief re-
marks. Of the Y. L. I. A., Mrs. Nancy
Hill, first Ward, Ogden. Mrs. R. E. Monch,
fourth Ward. Mrs. E. Shurtliff, Plain City,
Mrs. M. Hall, Huntsville, Mrs. S. Belknap,
Hooperville. Mrs. M. E. Slater, Slaterville.
Mrs. A. Madsen, Marriott: Primary Associa-
tion Mrs. E. Rudd, first Ward. Mrs. A.
Odell, third Ward, Mrs. A. M. Frodsham,
fourth Ward.
	Coun., L. J. Herrick said he was much
pleased with the reports. He felt proud of
the young ladies; thought they were doing
all that could be expected of them. The
kingdom of God is a perfect organization;
nothing is wanting; all are organized
from the High Priests down to our children.
This should stir us up to diligence. We
should encourage the young to attend their
meetings. We are glad to have Sister
Snow with us. She has devoted her time
and talents to the promotion of all that is
good and pure. He thought the sisters
deserved praise for the great good they were
doing.
	Elder D. M. Stuart made a few remarks.
He said we were all, young as well as old,
engaged in the work of the Lord, which is
to redeem all His children; and through
our diligence and faithfulness this work
will be accomplished. He gave good coun-
sel and instruction to mothers and children,
spoke in praise of Sister Snow, said she had
done a good work, and millions would yet
arise and call her blessed.
	Afternoon session: A large number of the
Primary Association of Ogden City were in
attendance. By request of Pres. E. R.
Snow the children sang "We thank Thee O,
God." After prayer singing by the child-
ren "O, my Father" Pres. E. R. Snow
asked many questions which were answ-
ered with promptness by the little ones.
Her remarks were full of instruction, and
could not fail to make a good impression
upon the hearts and minds of her attentive
listeners.
	Mrs. E. Howard addressed the children
for a short time, interesting them very
much. They then repeated the Lords
prayer in concert and were dismissed.
	Pres. E. R. Snow exhorted the sisters to
be watchful and energetic, to see that their
children were kept under proper influences
and that no evil take root among them.
Miss Rode Canfield was elected secretary of
the Central Board of the Y. L. M. I. A., of
Weber Co. Bishop C. Critchlow, Elder
Wm., Stowell, and Borther Morley each
made good remarks. Conference was ad-
jorned for three months. Singing and
Benediction.
