MY LAST WEEK AT LAIE.

	Friday Aug. 22d, Sea bathing in the morn-
ing. At three o'clock p.m. attended the meet-
ing of the Relief Society for the last time.
	The sisters were very kind. We received a
few more gifts some banannas and green sweet
corn as good as I ever tasted.
	Sat. 23d. At seven o'clock before breakfast
met with the young ladies in the meeting
house; the good spirit was truly with us.
	Sunday 24: Sabbath School at nine o'clock
meeting at eleven; many native Elders were
present who were well versed in the Scriptures

[Column 2]
and good orators J. K. Hawaii Napela's bro-
ther is one of the most eloquent speakers.
	There were a great many testimonies given
by the Elders, some of them very young men.
How enjoyable at all times is the bread of life.
	Truth is "sweeter than honey in the honey-
comb" wherever it is found.
	Pres. Cluff seeks to benefit all, he needs the
faith and prayers of the Saints.
	At five o'clock p.m. I took a walk around
on the sea shore which was very delightful
called up many pleasant thoughts.
	Every Sabbath evening the bell rings for
prayers and the five families of the mission
assemble at Pres. Cluff's for united worship
singing and prayer, music from the organ,
Jacob Gales organist. The organ was pur-
chased at Honolulu while we were there. The
first evening after it was brought over, I
wished Bro. C. R. Savage had been there to
make a picture of the scene. I counted forty
persons men, women and children sitting on
the floor (the native custom) and many ani-
mated faces at the doors and windows some
of them keeping time with their heads and
feet, yet they were very quiet. They are
great lovers of music and many of them have
excellent voices. The first tune played upon
the organ was,
		"O, my father thou that dwellest;
		In the high and holy place,"
A hymn composed by our dear Sister
Eliza R. Snow: when the inspiration of this
hymn came upon her little did she think
where and by whom it would be chanted.
	Monday 25: Mamma Kleohanoe's wife
(whose weight is over two hundred pounds)
came as usual and took our washing. She
washes sitting by the edge of a spring of water.
A flat rock answers the purpose of both tub
and board; all the water is soft and not very
cold: the only dish used is a tin one to blue
them in. She sits down to iron, the iron is
like a tailer's goose, a little charcoal in a dish
is sitting by, it can easily be replenished. Our
clothes always looked beautiful.
	Tuesday, 26: We took our last horse-back
ride through a canon or gulch to gather ferns
and curiosities I must not try to describe the
beauty of the lovely, eternal, luxuriant green
foliage, it would be imposible. Underneath
the trees in the orange groves the leaves be-
come skeletonized beautifully by laying on
the ground. After leaving our horses, because
there is not r[-]om for a horse to pass with safe-
ty, we traveled up, some distance and there
we foun d a brother tending fruit trees and
kala, there were also bushes of cayenne pep-
per, something in appearance like our rose
bushes. We then came to the fields of awa.
This is a beautiful shrub; it requires about
two years to perfect it. The druggists at Hon-
olulu pay a good price for it. It is the root
that is valuable; the natives pulverize it, soak
it in water, then strain and drink it. The
effect of a little is like smoking opium, more of
it taken will intoxicate like liquor. It is
pleasant to taste, but is often taken to excess.
On the top of the heights was a small house.
Sometimes those afflicted with leprosy go to
the heights to escape the officers who are sent
to take all afflicted with that disease to the
island of lepers. We returned home in the
evening enriched in ideas and satisfied though
fatigued but truly grateful for our safe return,
for we had traveled over paths on the moun-
tain sides in places not more than fifteen
inches wide, and below were vast precipices
and chasms that would make one's head swim
to look down.
	Wensday. 27: The feast day drawing near,
work was almost entirely suspended. In the
forenoon the fort was nearly vacated for a

[Column 3]
general refreshing of all in the salt water;
my bathing suit was one that our much es-
teemed sister Mildred Randall left there. It
was of home made Utah flannel.
	Thursday. 28: Pres. Cluff and I rode
through the cane-field. On account of the
drought thirty acres nearly ripened will scarce-
ly yield sufficient to pay for cultivating.
Twenty acres more looks pretty well, but will
not be matured until next March. The cane-
fields are on the east side of the island; at the
base of the mountain is the sugar mill.
	A little bench back of that is a corrall for
the stock; a goodly number had been driven
in to select a beef from to kill for the feast.
The man who has charge of the stock is called,
PANEOLA, he called upon Pres. Cluff to select
one from the many to kill; I sat upon my
horse and waited; when the selection had
been made, and the beautiful fat creature
pointed out, the young man threw the lasso
around it, and the remainder were given liber-
ty; there are about four hundred head of stock
on this island. When the animal was slaugh-
tered some dressed the beef, others dug the hole
to cook it. The meat is cooked in the ground
a hole is dug and wood placed in it on which
are laid rocks; when these are hot the meat or
food is placed on them in bay leaves a leaf as
smooth as glass always green, mats of leaves
are laid over and just a hole left in the top,
where water is poured in and then the top is
closed; the steam cooks it sweet and nice, veg-
tables as well as meat are prepared in this
simple manner, they are good and nutritious:
our girls might envy the natives the beautiful
hair and teeth this style of living produces.
	The boys and girls brought ferns and decor-
ated the meeting house for the feast; festoon-
ing the ferns in many pretty designs with good
taste; mats were brought to cover the floor.
The choir practised for the occasion. The
sisters of the Relief Society paid for the beef
mostly in work; by stripping the lower leaves
from the sugar cane so when it rained the
water would go down the stock direct to the
roots. The shades of evening drew around us in
peace but the ever memorable day the 29th,
of Aug. which is so sacred to me and to the na-
tive Saints I shall never forget; and I know
all was done in honor of the principles of life
and salvation, President Young sought to
establish. The 29, was the feast; of which I
will tell you in my next article.
	The sisters of the Relief Society sent their
love to Sister Eliza R. Snow and the dear
sisters in Zion who are working to help build
up Zion upon the earth.
