AND WORKS.

	In writing of a person of whom so very
little is really known, and of whom so
much has been said and written which can-
not be relied upon as literally true, conse-
quently much of which must be conjecture,
one must use his or her own judgment and
powers of discrimination to a very great ex-
tent, as to which of the biographers is the
best authority upon a theme that involves
such a variety of dissimilar and contradic-
tory statements.
	Chaucer, who has no doubt justly been
styled the father of English poetry, was
born, so tradition tells us, in London, in
the year of our Lord 1328; he also died in
the same city in the year 1400, being sev-
enty two years of age. He was buried in
Westminister Abbey.
	Of the early period of his life very little
indeed is known, but it is said by good au-
thority he was the son of a wealthy mer-
chant, who gave him a liberal education;
he was for some considerable time at Cam-
bridge, and afterwards at Oxford. After
completing his studies at those celebrated
places, he traveled about in foreign coun-
tries, and greatly improved himself by ob-
servation in so doing. On his return he
commenced the study of law in the Inner
Temple, but soon quitted Thismis and went
to court as yeoman to Edward III, who
granted him a pension. He was not only a
poet, a scholar, a gentleman of the court,
but a soldier, having served under Edward
in his French campaign; he was taken
prisoner, and it is supposed he was impris-
oned for several years.
	On one occasion he was sent to Genoa to
hire ships for the king's service. He ob-
tained on his return a pitcher of wine daily,
and also the comptrollership of the customs
of wool for London.
	In the succeeding reign he was obliged
to go abroad, to avoid the resentment of the
clergy, on account of his having embraced
the doctrines of Wickliffe; however, he
returned privately, and was taken and im-
prisoned, and was not released until he
had made his submission and discovered
the names of those who had been associated
with him in embracing the new doctrine.
After having thus betrayed himself, he was
filled with remorse, and in his Testament of
Love deplores the disgrace into which his
conduct had led him. In 1386 he was
elected Knight of the shire of Kent, and
in 1389 Clerk of the works of Westminister
and Windsor and other palaces. At this
period he was in circumstances to follow
his own inclination, and being inclined to
poetry, and from his natural gifts in that re-
spect, about this time he wrote those im-
mortal works, which, it has been said by
some celebrated person, "From the knowl-
edge they contain of human nature, seem
to have been produced for all time."
	He married Phillippa de Roet, a lady of
good family, and by this chance he became
allied to John of Gaunt, Duke of Lancaster,
who was his great patron while he himself
was in power. Chaucer left two sons, one

[Column 2]

a speaker in the House of Commons, and
Ambassador to France.
	This is a brief account of the life of this
great and gifted poet, and now I will give
some account of his works, as I view them,
being very incompetent to judge of their
value, as I am not very familiar with them,
but will pass an opinion upon them from
what little I have investigated them.
	In the first place, to judge wisely or
correctly of the writings of a person, one
must take into consideration the age, the
state of society, the standard of literature
at the time of writing; and one must re-
member the rude and sad state of the En-
glish language at that remote period.
	We know that to a great extent, in the
fourteenth century the island was governed
by Norman knights, who spoke the French
language entirely, and whose dealings and
enterprises with other classes and those
under their charge were carried on in this
same language; therefore one cannot won-
der that Chaucer made use of so many
French words and phrases in his works.
	In the English language of to day we
can scarcely recognize, with that of the
14th century, in any words which we use
the e mute as in haste, taste, caste, &c.,
were pronounced as e feminine, in French,
making dissyllables of our monosyllables.
In order to fully appreciate and understand
Chaucer's works, one must study and be-
come acquainted with the grammar of the
language in that day.
	It is true that from his writings we ob-
tain the truest history of nations, customs,
manners, &c., as he had traveled and could
give reliable information on all these sub-
jects.
	He may positively be classed as one of
the greatest men of history. He was a
thorough scholar in literature, science and
theology. The "Canterbury Tales" are
ranked as his most brilliant works, although
there are many others that might be looked
upon as particularly worthy of notice.
Among his most choice selections I will
mention the following: Some from the
Canterbury Tales,The Prologue,The Knight,
The Squire, The Yeoman, The Nun, The
Clerk, The Sergeant at Law, The Franklin,
The Haberdasher, The Carpenter, The
Cook, The Skipper, The Doctor, The Good
Parson, The Plowman, The Miller, The
Reve.
	Perhaps this is sufficient for one who can
have so little conception of the character
and attainments of the great poet who has
passed away so long ago, and lived in an
age so unlike the present.
	In conclusion I will add a few lines from
his Canterbury Tales.
	Then this conclude I, sin that God of heven
	No[-]vol not that the philosophres neven,
	How that a man shal come unto this ston,
	I rode as for the best to let it gon.
	For who so maketh God his adversary,
	As for to werken anything in contrary
	Of his will, certes never shall he thrive,
	Though that he multiply terme of his live.
	And ther a point, for ended is my tale.
	God send every good man bote of his bale.*
		M.
*H [-]p for his evil, or trouble.


