NOTES AND NEWS.

	THE FABLES of Lillie Devereux Blake,
from the "Evening Telegram," are issued
in a pamphlet and for sale. Price ten cents,
single copy; six dollars per hundred. Oli-
ver J. Blaber, printer, 112 and 114 William
street, New York.
	THE BRITISH Empire is under the gov-
ernment of a Queen-Empress, the Chinese
Empire under Empresses-Regent, Corea
and Madagascar are governed by Queens,
and a woman is the heiress of the Empire
of Brazil. Yet when the women of the
people ask for a share in government by
the people, they are told it is contrary to
the experience of ages and the laws of na-
ture for a woman to exercise political power.
—Woman Suffrage Journal.
	ORDINATION OF women is being consid-
ered by the Methodist clergy of Chicago.
The agitation of this matter is another step
forward in the cause of woman's advance-
ment. It will call forth the best thoughts
of men and women on the subject, which
cannot fail to elicit some new ideas that
will benefit the public mind on the woman
question. Miss Frances Willard, it is con-
ceded, is the best temperance lecturer on
the platform. There are several women
who have had pastoral charge of congrega-
tions, and have given good satisfaction.
	THE OCTOBER number of "The North
American Review" contains an article by
Dr. Frances Parkman, "The Woman Ques-
tion, intended for a CLINCHER. The No-
vember number contains the other side of
this question by advocates of woman suf-
frage well known to the public—Mrs. Julia
Ward Howe, Thomas Wentworth Higgin-
son, Lucy Stone, Elizabeth Cady Stanton
and Wendell Phillips. Read both sides (it
is always the best way), and then draw your
own conclusions. In our humble opinion, a
good way to become converted to woman
suffrage would be to hear the other side
and see how shallow their arguments
against woman's voting are.
	AN INTERNATIONAL Conference has been
held in Liege, Belgium, under the auspices
of the "British Continental and General
Federation for the Abolition of Government
Regulation of Prostitution." Representa-
tives from Great Britain, France, Switzer-
land, Italy, Holland, Belgium, Germany,
Sweden and Denmark attended and took
part in the deliberations; among them were
many whose names are familiar, by hear-
ing them associated constantly in the work
of reform, political and social. The work
in progress is called the "New Abolitionist's

[Column 2]

Movement," to put down regulated vice,
which is a system of slavery for women.
The reports from these several countries
were very favorable, especially from Italy.
The Conference will be held next year in
Italy, and will, it is thought, "oblige the
Italian Government to abolish the social
vice" regulations.
	MISS KATE FIELD says in "Scribner" that
Mr. Arthur Seymour Sullivan was born
both clever and lucky; and she adds that it
is probably because of his genial and ex-
travagant grandfather's existence that
"Pinafore" was written. For this gentle-
man, an Irish squire, spent his patrimony
in riotous living, and his son Thomas found
that he must work or starve. He was very
fond of music and so adopted as a profes-
sion the art he loved. He became band-
master of the Royal Military College at
Sandhurst, and it was in the band-room
that his son Arthur passed most of his
childhood. At ten years old he played
upon every wind instrument as well as up-
on the piano, which was taught him by his
music-loving mother. His talent for mis-
chief he displayed one day when he was
lost for five hours and was found in an old
college room, picking to pieces a venerable
piano, in order to know the secret of its con-
struction. At fourteen years old he won,
by an original composition, over twenty-
three other competitors, the Mendelssohn
Scholarship of the Royal Academy of Mu-
sic, and was thus enabled to study his art in
Germany.—Ex.
	THE STATE Medical Society of Massachu-
setts has, after about ten years of discus-
sion, admitted women to membership. A
meeting of the Council has been held re-
cently in Boston, and the Board of Censors
instructed to examine all female applicants.
This will stimulate other medical boards to
move in that direction, and is another vic-
tory for women. Dr. James R. Chadwick,
in the October number of the International
Review, states that the early history of the
world contains testimony of the ability and
skill of women in the practice of medicine.
Mythology gives women credit for knowl-
edge on this subject. Dr. Chadwick gives
the following summary of his investiga-
tions:
	"(1). That there is a widespread and ever-
growing movement in all parts of the world
in favor of allowing women to study and
practice medicine.
	(2). That their claims for admission to
the existing medical schools for men have
in many instances been acceded to, even in
countries like Germany, where there is no
considerable number of applicants for the
privilege.
	(3). That nowhere, except in Zurich dur-
ing the two years of Russian invasion,
have the predicted social, moral, or educa-
tional calamities befallen the colleges or
communities. The testimony as to these
points is full, authoritative, and unequivo-
cal.
	(4). That the extent and force of the de-
mand for the medical education of women
in the several countries is in direct ratio to
the general enlightenment of the people,
finding its loudest expression in England,
and notably in America."


