LETTER ON PLURAL MARRIAGE.

	Recently, to my great astonishment, I read
an article headed "Last Testimony of Sister
Emma," published in the Saint's Advocate,
a pamphlet issued in Plano, Ill.


In the article referred to, her son Joseph
reportes himself as interviewing his mother on
the subject of polygamy, asking questions con-
cerning his father.  Did his father teach the
principle? Did he practice or approve of it?
Did his father have other wives than herself?
To all these and similar inquiries, Sister Emma
is represented as answering in the negative,
positively affirming that Joseph the Prophet
had no other wife or wives than her; that he
neither taught the principle of plurality of
wives, publicly or privately.
	I once dearly loved "Sister Emma," and
now, for me to believe that she, a once honored
woman, should have sunk so low, even in her
own estimation, as to deny what she knew to
be true, seems a palpable absurdity.  If what
purports to be her "last testimony" was really
her testimony she died with a libel on her
lips - a libel against her husband - against his
wives - against the truth, and a libel against
God; and in publishing that libel, her son has
fastened a stigma on the character of his moth-
er, that can never be erased.  It is a fact that
Sister Emma, of her own free will and choice,
gave her husband four wives, two of whom are
now living, and ready to testify that she not only
gave them to her husband, but that she taught
them the doctrine of plural marriage and urged
them to accept it.  And, if her son wished to
degrade his mother in the  estimation of her 
former. associate[-], those familiar with the in-
cidents of the period referred to, he could not
do it more effectually than by proving her
denial of any knowledge of polygamy, (celestial
marrige) and its practice by her husband
Even if her son ignored his mother's reputation
for veracity, he better have waited until his
father's wives were silent in death, for now
they are here living witnesses of the divinity
of plural marriage, as revealed by the Almighty,
through Joseph Smith, who was commanded
to introduce it by taking other wives.
	So far as Sister Emma personally is con-
cerned, I would gladly have been silent and
let her memory rest in peace, had not her
misguided son, through a sinister policy,
branded her name with gross wickedness--
charging her with the denial of a sacred prin-
ciple which she had heretofore not only ac-
knowledged but had acted upon - a principle
than which there is none more important
comprised in the Gospel of the son of God.
	It may be asked,  Why defend plurality of
wives, since the United States government
forbids its practice? The action of the execu-
tors of this government can neither change or
annihilate a fundamental truth; and this na-
tion, in preventing the practice of plural mar-
riage, shoulders a heavier responsibility than
any nation has ever assumed, with one excep-
tion - that of the ancient Jews.  If the govern-
ment can afford it, we can.  The controversy
is with God - not us.
