BY BLANCHE BEECHWOOD.

	We have not finished our talk about cards
and calls, but shall add something more on
that one point, giving Mrs. Ward as au-
thority. Our young people should make
themselves familiar with correct obser-
vances, and there is very little danger of
any of them being over nice or particular,
and after all it is better to be too particular
than not sufficiently so. This is termed by
many the age of bad manners; then it is
the duty of those persons who write, or
talk in public, to use their influence to have
it otherwise, to impress upon the young the
"necessity of good manners, and seek to
inspire in all a desire to improve in this re-
spect.
	"A mooted point	*	*	is in reference
to the writing of 'P. P. C.' and 'R. S. V. P.'
Many affirm that it is incorrect to use capi-
tals, asking how the sentence would look if
it were written out in full: 'Pour Prendre
Conge!' 'Repliquiz S'il Vous Plait!' Since
the time of the Romans capital letters
have been used in writing or printing all
abbreviated sentences; as for instance, P.
M. for past meridian, and A. M. for ante
meridian Writing R. s. v. p. and P. p. c.
seems to be an American innovation, and
rather a finical one, with the Roman custom
in mind. A lawyer of widespread reputa-
tion was once cited as authority for writing
p. p. c., but the one who advocated the use
of capitals asserted that she had more con-
fidence in his legal ability than as an au-
thority in social observances; especially in
administering a reproof to a lady who had
'P. P. C. on her card (which he tore up with
the remark that he had expected better
things of her), he had shown more of the
judge than the gentleman. Among inti-
mate friends informal calls made out of the
conventional hours, are the most agreeable.
Hours on which morning calls are made
vary in different cities. Where lunch is
served at one o'clock and dinner at six or
seven, the calling hours are from two or
five. Where early dinners are the custom,
from one to four are the usual hours, and in
some towns from twelve to three; but a
formal call should not be made before noon
in any place. It is easy to ascertain the
customs of a city before calling.
	Two persons out of one family, or at the
most three persons, can make calls together.
Ladies in making calls in cities dress with
much more elegance than for walking or for
shopping. When there is any degree of
intimacy, or a long acquaintance, the early
morning call in morning dress is preferable.
	"Some ladies in cities are 'at home' to
their most intimate friends at all hours,
who are never at home to mere acquaint-
ances in calling hours, for the reason that
they know in making formal calls ladies do
not expect or wish to be admitted. This
fact has caused many to look more leniently
than they formerly did upon the French
mode of leaving cards, without inquiring if
the ladies are at home, when the call is one
of pure ceremony. For fear of giving of-
fence, it is better for the young, and for
those who have the time to spare, to make
the inquiry; but elderly persons, and those
whose days are not long enough for them,
on account of the engrossing nature of their
occupation, should always be excused when
they prefer to make their cards serve as
substitutes for themselves after an exchange
of calls.
	"To ladies whose circle of visiting ac-
quaintances is small, such ceremonious vis-

[Column 2]
its cannot but seem to be a mere farce; but
those who number several hundred families
on their list, appreciate all time-saving in-
novations, espe[-]ially if they entertain fre-
quently; and consequently they have to ap-
preciate fully the observances that enable
them to keep up a ceremonious acquaintance
with a circle too large for friendly visit-
ing."
	"A lady receiving does not dress elabor-
ately as for dinner. "The lady of the house
rises when visitors enter, who advance to
pay their respects to her before speaking to
any others. A well-bred person pays equal
attention to all her callers. It is allowable
to pay extra attention to persons of distin-
guished rank, to strangers, to age, or world-
wide reputation. Attention to the aged is
one of the marks of good breeding which
is never neglected by the thoughtful and
refined. Ladies and gentlemen are privi-
leged to speak to each other, who meet in
the drawing-room of a common friend,
without any introduction; though gentle-
men generally prefer to ask for introduc-
tions. When introduced to any one, bow
slightly and enter at once into conversa-
tion. It is a great want of good-breeding
not to do so.
	A little more about calls will suffice. All
cards of invitation require answers, except
those for kettle-drums. A kettle drum sig-
nifies a light entertainment, to which ladies
and gentlemen can come and go in calling
costume, not generally remaining over the
half hour allotted for the extreme length
of a morning call. Of course such an invi-
tation does not absolutely require any an-
swer, nor any cards left afterwards by those
who are present. In an event of exchange
of calls between two ladies, without meet-
ing, who are not known to each other by
sight, they should upon the first opportu-
nity make themselves known to each other.
The younger should seek the elder, or the
one who has been the recipient of the first
attention should introduce herself, or seek
an introduction. Many unpleasant mis-
takes are made by persons on account of
their ignorance of social customs, and these
mistakes prove the necessity of a better
understanding of these things. "Untrained
characters are not willing to submit to
rules. They maintain that good breeding
is a gift and comes by nature, like poetry,
never seeming to fancy that dukes, or earls,
or "exclusive old families," have anything
to contend with in the way of keeping out
of sight those proclivities which Darwin
maintains are inherited by all human be-
ings from their four-footed ancestors, and
which, when indulged in, make men clowns,
and boors, and snobs, no matter what their
rank in life. A man's happiness depends
on his manners and conduct."
	A great deal is said about the decay of
fine manners; in fact, it is a matter of uni-
versal comment. The journals of both
America and England teem with the sub-
ject. But what shall be the remedy? What
suggestions can be made should be, and
whatever influence the pen, the press, or
the platform, may have, should be used in
this direction, combined with other noble
work, that all may harmonize, or that a
certain propriety or justness of proportion
of things may be maintained. The lack of
a just relation between the manners of peo-
ple towards each other makes discord, or
causes impropriety. There are many nice
distinctions that can scarcely be expressed,
and yet they may be understood by those
who possess fine manners perfectly, yet
others, perchance, may think them uncalled
for; they are not perhaps essential to life,
but they are to the true happiness of an ele-

[Column 3]
vated mind. Culture in an expressed broad
sense is perhaps the only cure. Largely
this reform, if it ever comes, is and must
be the work of women, and especially the
work of mothers. Young or middle-aged
persons of fine manners never comport
themselves to elderly people as they do to
those of their own age, neither does a gen-
tleman address himself to one of the oppo-
site sex as he would to one of his own.
There is a subtle instinct in these matters
that should be recognized and ingratiated
into the life and character which tends to
elevate, and would in a short time lift so-
ciety much above its present level. It is
the ignoring of these fine points that has
brought things to their present condition.
And the results are that many of the young
people of to-day show no more respect for
the aged than they do for those of their
own age. In this connection much might
be said, but for this time we will only add
that some of the young people have become
so indifferent in their manner towards their
friends and those whom they should re-
spect, even though they may be under ob-
ligations to them, that often in return for a
bow, or a cheery "good morning" they
only recognize one with a slight move-
ment of the chin and elevating the eye-
lids. This needs no other comment, it
shows for itself the want of that fine feel-
ing which lifts one towards fine manners


