HOME AFFAIRS.

	WE SINCERELY hope that those who have
sent in reports of conferences and meetings of
sisters' organizations will have patience, and
we will try to be just, if we are not generous,
and remember all in their time.
	A NUMBER of Sisters from this city are in-
vited by Sister Margaret T. Smoot, Pres. of
Relief Societies of Utah Co., to attend the
Quarterly Conference of Relief Societies of
that Stake of Zion, to be held in Provo on the
7th and 8th of this month.
	WE LEARN by letter from Sister E. Howard
that in company with Sister S. S. Richards,
President of Relief Societies of Summit Co.,
she has visited and held meetings at Wanship,
Echo City, Evanston and Almy, all well at-
tended. Sister Howard and some other sis'ers
were expected at the Quarterly Conference of
Relief Societies of Summit Co. in Coalville
yesterday.
	WE HAVE received a copy of "The Ameri-
can Kindergarten, Magazine," edited by Emi-
ly M. Coe, Room 70, Bible House, New York.
It is filled with pleasant, useful and instructive
articles in prose and poetry, questions and an-
swers, and is illustrated with suitable engrav-
ings. This method of teaching is becoming
very popular, and is extremely simple and
easily adapted to the minds of the young. The
little magazine is one dollar a year, and is well
worth the price in its lessons for children.
	THE FABLES of Lillie Devereux Blake, com-
piled in pamphlet form, from the "Evening
Telegram," have been sent to us with the 
"compliments of the author." There are thirty
little fables, and every one contains a pith
that is telling, each one applicable to a certain
circumstance, or fact. Mrs. Blake uses sharp
arrows carefully pointed; her style is exceed-
ingly unique, and characteristic of herself.
Our readers will remember we published two
of her fables during this year, and in the pres-
ent number will be found one of these litt'e
fables that is strikingly applicable, and no
doubt all who read it will appreciate its truth.
"The Fables" are 10 cen's, single copy or $6
per hundred.


