SALT LAKE CITY, NOV. 1 1879.


[Column 1]
	STORING GRAIN.
As the time draws near to hold the annual
meeting of the Woman's Central Grain Com-
mittee, wo feel called npon to make some sug-
gestions upon the subject, as it is a matter of 
some importance to the women of this people.
It is well known that President Young in his 
lifetime counseled the sisters to store up grain
for future emergencies, and also that he ad-
vised them to solicit their husbands for dona-
tions of grain and means to build storehouses.
	In view of the fulfillment of prophecies an-
cient and modern, in which this people pro-
fess to have implicit faith, it is consistent that
wise and needful steps be taken in this direc-
tion, and that much earnestness be manifested
in the matter, by those who are engaged in this
labor, that others may be inspired with the
necessity of storing up grain, for it cannot be
by the labor of a few that this Mammoth work
is to be accomplished, namely, the storing of 
sufficient grain to feed the hungry thousands
who will flock to Zion when famine and sick-
ness cover the face of the whole land.
	This work seems an arduous one for the s[-]s-
ters; and many brethren have remarked that
it was too hard, but no complaints have ever
reached us of any discouragement on account
of its laboriousness, but on the contrary, even
the sisters who have gone into the fields and
gleaned have felt much satisfaction in their 
work, a[-]d have realized the blessing of God
upon their efforts.
	Since the annual meeting in the interest of 
storing grain, held last November, several ex-
cellent storehouses have been built in different
parts of the Territory, some in this city. These
things should be reported, in order that all
facts concerning the work may be known to
those interested, and that others who have not
yet built may have the benefit of the experi-
ence gained in practical work of this kind.
Circumstances have much to do with this work
of building, as well as gathering the grain; in 
some places the sisters' organizations have ac-
cumulated a considerable amount of means,
and have not many poor to support, or to aid
in supporting, consequently they are able to
give more towards storing grain, or helping to
build granaries. All who have read the article
published in WOMAN'S EXPONENT, No. 10,
Vol. 5, October 15, 1876, written by Pres.
Young's wish and reviewed and approved by
him previous to its being published, cannot, it
seems to us, have even a shadow of doubt as to
the necessity of taking hold of this enterprise
energetically. I know many questions are
a[-]ked and remarks made in regard to the expe-
diency of this undertaking, and that if left in 
the hands of women not acquainted with the
nature of grain[-]it is likely to be made a failure

[Column 2]
instead of a success. The sisters generally are
aware that it is a question on which wise coun-
sel is needed, and they refer to Bishops, farm-
e[-]s and business men to ascertain all facts con-
nected with this peculi[-]r, benevolent enter-
prise.
	We have not only Pres. Young's words on 
this subject to refer to, but we have remarks
by Pres. Taylor at the Grain Meeting held in 
Salt Lake City:
	"I consider this gathering and storing of
wheat as of great importance. I am pleased to
find that you have succeeded as well as you
have, yet you have not a great deal, consider-
ing the size of the Territory, but you will in-
crease it. It puts me in mind of the history of 
Joseph; it took seven years in that day to pre-
pare for the seven years that were to come; we
have not got any defined time. * * *
	"If you ladies can help us and succeed in
saving wheat for a case of emergency, it will
be one of the greatest acts of statesmanship
that could occur. We have been careless, we
did not save our wheat as we should have done,
and now if the sisters take heed to these things
the men will find out that their wives have
been wise in doing this thing according  to
counse[-].  The ladies are generally considered
the weaker and more beautiful sex; but if we
all do our part we will be in a position to re-
ceive the blessings of the Lord. I am pleased
to see that our young sisters are taking an ac-
tive part in this work." * * *
	And here are some remarks by Bishop Hunt-
er on the subject at the same time:
	"It is very i[-]portant and highly commend-
able to gather and store wheat. * * *
It has been said that bread is the staff of life.
When we first came to these velleys, and in-
deed since then, we have suffered for the want
of it. We don't want to go through so severe a
trial again, at all times we should have wheat
on hand. The Lord has been mercifnl to us;
He has blessed us with much grain, and much
of it has been wasted. But in the future I
hope we will be more careful of what the Lord
has so abundantly blessed us with. Our Relief
Societies are doing much good; they have
saved much suffering, and have been a great
he[-]p to the B[-]shops.  They have the priesthood
—a portion of priesthood rests upon the sisters.
They are doing a good work, and particularly
the storing of grain is commendable. May
you continue and succeed in your work."
	Our readers will see by these extracts, re-
published from the EXPONENT of Dec. 1877,
that the sisters not only have the advice of
Pres. Young in this connection, but the sanc-
tion of living oracles in this peculiar mission.
It is strange that any Latter-day Saint
should believe the rumors in regard to the 
wheat stored by women having been exported.
It would seem too absurd to talk about, only
when sensible men and women give credence
to such vague reports, it becomes a duty, in
some instances, to contradict them. Is it not
ridiculous to suppose that women who have
plenty to do in their own homes, and have no
occasion whatever (except the desire to do
good) to labor outside, should appropriate the
proceeds of a few bushels of grain, which they
themselves had perhaps gone into the fields and 
helped to gleam?
	"It must be so" is the cry, as some one as-
serted to us to day in reference to a matter that
we knew all about, and they only heard from
"Dame Rumor;" as a humorous poet once
wrote:
		"It must be so, for Thomas Brown Esquire,
		Heard Blab's wife tell the son of Mr. Smith
		Him that was christen'd John after his sire—
		Men often to transmit their names desire—

[Column 3]
		That Higgons sa[-]d, while he was walking with
		That charming lady aged forty,
		'Yclept Miss Catchum, (Higgons was her beau)
		She told him (confidentially) that naughty
		And prattling gossip, Mrs. Wilkins, thought she
		Heard Polly's cousin's sister's aunt say so."
	This is no doubt similar to the origin of the
story of the wheat being mysteriously disposed
of.
	The various Relief Societies and Young La-
dies' Associations will please be prompt in send-
ing in reports of the wheat they have stored.
If granaries have been built in their locality,
or are in the course of erection, let us have
particulars, that all may bo recorded concerning
 this remarkable and interesting enterprise.
The meeting will be held in the Council House
on Saturday, Nov. 15, at two o'clock P. M.
We hope to receive reports from all parts of the
Territory, and that all officers and members of 
Relief Societies adjacent to this city will at-
tend who can make it convenient to do so.
Brethren, especially Bishops, are cordially in-
vited to be present. 
			E.B.Wells


