CHARACTER FOURTH.

	A calm and placid exterior, collected,
self-possessed, sedate and concentrated;
manners delicate and retiring, with a mix.
ture of bashfulness and hauteur, half-awk-
ward, half graceful, gentle almost to supine-
ness, unseeking, unbending; and around
hung a mystery, a melancholy, a resigna-
tion, a gentleness, bespeaking gentle blood;
language half humble, half sarcastic, al-
ways good; nothing dogmatical, yet firm in

[Column 2]
maintaining opinions; withal was shadowed
forth an affectionate nature, that would
identify itself with the joys and sorrows of
friends, and a constancy, without which all
kind offices are but casual and inefficient.
Firmness and prudence also give weight to
this character. An intelligent, soul-breath-
ing countenance, a deeply-impressing, quiet
eye, from whence a lofty, spirit-thrilling
soul looked out, and that spoke volumes at
a glance, or, rather, they never glanced,
their look was a signet that stamped on the
beholder an impression not easily forgotten;
a mouth denoting firmness, purity, austerity
and cynicism; and the laugh! Is there not
character developed in the laugh of some
people? Then this bespoke a soul born
with mirth and cheerfulness, but crippled,
crushed, by—ah! there's the mystery!
perhaps sorrow and disappointment, per-
haps adversity, perhaps a change of circum-
stances, or a combination of all these, and
so produced a smothered, inward, hysteri-
cal laugh, that awoke sorrowful sympathy
instead of mirth and joy. The voice!
There's magic in some voices; ahd this be-
spoke superior association, and struck on
the ear as "music o'er the waters roll."
Temperament self-sacrificing, enduring and
romantic; temper warm and combustible,
but like every other feature of this rare
character under good control; an air and
carriage that might have befitted a six-
foot nobleman, reminding one forcibly of
Byron's eulogy on his friend Moore.
	It is at intervals "few and far between"
that we meet with a character altogether
resembling the one I have attempted to
develop. 'Twas certainly a specimen of a
select class, one whom we must esteem, and
who called forth our warmest sympathies;
in fine, one of those "who defy you to for-
get them," but who arise on the horizon of
the heart as "The morning star of memo-
ry."

