BY HANNAH T. KING.

	A calm, almost cold, some would say a
forbidding exterior;—can that icy reserve,
that repelling manner, be caused by a sul-
len disposition? Hush! certainly not; that
nature is decidedly not sullen; take care
how you judge too hastily. Then why
those chilling manners? Let's see: Man-
ners reserved, distant, chilling and pride-
ful—may we not add pride to the catalogue?
Perhaps we may, no doubt that is mixed
up in the character. But look! one ap-
proaches and addresses this repellent being
—one who knows and is known. A grand
touchstone this! Where is now the reserve,
the pride, the chilliness? All gone, dis-
pelled by the magical influence of a friend.
Happiness, mirth, cheerfulness, yea, "fun,"
beam on that countenance, and the eyes,
those "windows of the soul,' have a laugh-
ing, playfulness, though they lose not their
shy, apprehensive expression, now darting
full upon the speaker, and anon glancing
off like shooting stars. And listen to the
laugh—hear you not the heart's laugh in
that contagious and agreeable convulsion?
Where is the cloud that sat on that inno-
cent face? Gone, and the soul is looking
out at every crevice, and need not be
ashamed of being seen; for it evidently
bears the impress of purity, and emits rays
of honor and honesty, warmth and modes-
ty, sincerity of heart, and an excellent
judgment, not easily hoodwinked, and
tact, and tend[-]rness, are all set forth in
that rather enigmatical character; and we
trace a nature pensive and peaceful, happy
and contented; but circumstances and com-
munion have engrafted an irritable, because
over-excited, temperament, the conse-
quence of a soul that awoke from its dream
of infancy too soon, and rendered it queru-
lous. A magician touched its heart, and
the soul looked down into its own depths,
and startled the youthful gazer and shook
the surroundings with a force at times un-
controlable, because self-control and self-
discipline had not yet been fully established.
But give time for the heart's fountain to
calm down, and its spray to dissolve, and
all will again be calm as the infancy of this
youthful character. Destroy not too soon
the dream of youth! No earth-born pas-
sions were mixed up there, 'twas soul com-
muning with soul, lovely and altogether
ideal; 'twas an episode in that young life,
the bright sunshine of which age itself
will love to bask in, and which the
mists of death need not shut out.
	Beloved character, what else shall we tell
of thee? That thou art obedient, humble,
peaceful, quiet and uncomplaining? -Yes.
Let a few more suns ripen thy 'budding
charms, and I feel sure thou wilt come
forth sterling, the mannerism so complained
of will then be only a settled seriousness,
which will be ready at any time to be dis-
pelled by mirth and cheerfulness, called
forth by innocent hilarity.
	This is a miniature.

