AFTER LONG YEARS.
LETTER X.
We wreathe a chaplet fair, yea, half-divine,
Of life's best flowers bedew'd with tender tears;
And round sweet memory's hallowed shrine,
We twine the garland, woven through long years.

 In looking back over our lives after many
years of toil, study and patient labor, and
making a sort of summary of it all, how
imperfect and incomplete it seems. And
yet, perhaps we should not do much better,
or glean much more happiness, or even
wisdom, could we have the opportunity to
live the years over again, with the great
programme before us.  No indeed; it is
evidently much better as it is; for who
would not shrink from the heavy trials that
occur even in the serenest lives, or hesitate
ere they embarked in enterprises which 
they knew could only end in disappoint-
ment to them, even though they benefitted
makind at large.  How could we ever for-
tify ourselves sufficiently to endure the
sorrows which fall so heavily that they al-
most crush us, and where would be the 
sweet visions of hope that gladden the 
heart, and give brilliancy to the mind, and
elasticity to the soul, if we knew that just
beyond the brightest moments, the most
delightful pleasures, there was a dark cloud
ready to burst upon us, dimming for a time
all the lustre reflected by the brightness of 
the past, crushing out the remembrances
that gladden, and enshrouding us in dark-
ness and gloom.  We should be denied
nearly all the sweetness that friendship
lends, and in youth particularly these ties
are woven, as it were, like a spell around
us; who cannot recall some very dear
friends of the days gone by, who shared
almost our every thought, who sympathized
with us in our sorrows, and whom we ex-
pected would remain faithful to the end of
our lives, yet by and by, coldness, indiffer-
ence, or mistrust crept in, and we became
estranged and felt all the bitterness of the
regret which follows, trust betrayed, or af-
fection outraged.  There are other and
stronger ties than those of friendship even,
that are sometimes broken asunder in a 
moment, or worn completely out by a con-
stant strain of heavy burdens long borne,
that tell upon us even more than all others,
that touch more acutely our sensitiveness,
inflicting wounds that never heal, that throb
painfully through the long weary days and 
sleepless nights, although, perhaps no mor-
tal shares the secret.  It is useless to at-
tempt to enumerate the various phases of
earth life, that were it opened in a pano-
rama before us would make us shrink with
alarm from taking a part in its contests.
The memory of the dead loved ones is
like mountains of weight upon our souls;
go where we will, there is no true compen-
sation for the loss; others may love us just
as well, but the place sacred to the departed
is never filled again.  There is ever after a
void that we are conscious of within our-
selves, e'en though we scarce dare trust the
acknowledgement of the secret to our own
heart.  Every being tills its own niche, not
only in the material world, but in the heart
and the affections.
There is in some lives a peculiar tendency
to happiness, and this it is well to cultivate.
Youth is generally hopeful and eagerly ex-
pectant of success, and this feeling should
be encouraged, for whatever we do, or feel,
the heart partakes of it more or less deeply,
and the more healthful and regular its
beats, the better for its possessor; for there
is no cessation of its active work, it is beat-
ing when work is done, when amusements
or pleasures are over, when sleep comes
like a soothing angel to our couches, no
matter, the heart never rests.  Ought we
not then to be careful and not unnecessarily
wound our own hearts, or the hearts of 
others.  Let us be wise in our mutual inter-
change of words, not to wound, for although
we may fancy the hearts of our associates
are callous, they may have bleeding wounds
that open afresh when pierced with the


cruel thorns, petty jealousies  and  sharp
thrusts of stinging sarcasms.  Who does
not know that every pulsation of life, every
thought which generates in the mind, has
an effect upon the heart.  In proof of this
is the fact that joy or sorrow has been known
to kill instantly.
	How gladly we recall the pleasant places
that stand out separate and apart from
everything else connected with our lives,
to which we turn with inward satisfaction,
passing by and ignoring more common-
place joys.  It is the same with sorrows,
they perfect and ennoble the soul.  Happy
are they who can bear all things, endure all,
hope all and remain firm and steadfast unto
the end.
	There are many sharp rocks that bruise
us, while we search for precious gems and
treasures, and we often grow faint and
weary with the difficulties that ever attend
those who are striving to overcome in spite
of all obstacles, but armed with a lofty pur-
pose and strengthened from within by deep
and pure aspirations, and clothed upon with
the sweet mantle of charity, we should
humbly pursue our onward course, and
whether we are surrounded by those who
love us, or left to bear life's burdens alone,
prove to ourselves, our God and His cause
that we are earnestly searching for truth
and light, and let us not, even after long
years of unrewarded toil, cease our endeav-
ors to promote good works.
