'Guide Lessons for March. LESSON I Theology and Testimony. First WEEK IN Marcu SALVATION FOR THE LIVING AND THE DEAD AUTHORITY The foundation of religion here, and hereafter, is divine authority; that is, the legitimate authority to teach, to preach and to administer in the ordinances of the gospel. And what is true on this earth, in regard to authority, is just as true of life in any other sphere, world, or universe. A church may possess many of the forms and ceremonies, the principles and sacraments of the gospel, but if that church, either here or hereafter, lacks the authority which comes only from our Father, then it is a house founded on the sand, as the Savior himself said. This lesson does not deal with the necessity of a church organization; that comes later. We speak only of the vital need of God's authority to establish and carry on a church. The vitality of any church rests upon its authority to act in the name of the Lord. The priesthood of God is the power and authority given to man to administer in the ordinances of his gospel, either for the "quick or for the dead," or for both.. One of the great revelations received by the Prophet in his first vision was that the sects of the day had all lost their authority. A wealth of information on the apostasy is found in Elder B. H. Roberts' book, New Witnesses for God, especially in the first seven chapters; and in his Gospel; as also in Elder Orson F. Whitney's Gospel Themes; and in Talmage's Articles o7 Faith; Orson Pratt's articles on Revelation, and The Bible an Insufficient Guide, are filled with great truths on this point. The Restoration, by O. J. P. Widtsoe contains valuable data also. From the point of view of a non-"Mormon"' student, the Roman Catholic Church would seem to be the only Christian church on earth with any shadow of claim to real succession of divine authority, from the time of Christ. All other Christian sects, and there are literally hundreds of them, claim that the Catholic church apostatized from the true Christian faith. The reformed churches are undoubtedly right in this view. But, the ~ 
 "protesting" sects, or Protestant churches, in their gropings for a trtte church have no recourse but to base their claims for authority simply and wholly on the Bible. We quote from the Presbyterian Confession of Faith, published in Philadelphia, in 1906, which is the substance of faith of many of the Protestant Churches: "Although the light of nature, and the works of creation 'and providence, do so far manifest the goodness, wisdom, and power of God, as to leave men inexcusable; yet they are not sufficient to give that knowledge of God and of his will, which is necessary unto salvation; therefore it pleased the Lord, at sundry times, and in divers manners, to reveal himself, and to declare his will unto his church; and afterwards, for the better preserving and propagating of the truth, and for the more sure establishment and comfort of the Church against the corruption of the flesh, and the malice. Of Satan and of the world, to commit the same wholly unto writing; which maketh the Holy Scripture to be most necessary; those former ways of God's revealing his will unto his people being now ceased." President John Taylor says, (Vol. I, Journal of Discourses): "Abraham was a man who contended for the true and legitimate authority. He was a man who dared fear God, and do honor to his authority, which was legitimate. He obtained his dominion by legitimate authority; his Priesthood was obtained from God; his authority was that which is associated with the everlasting gospel, which was, and is, and is to come, that liveth and abideth forever." Tt would seem that none of the founders of various sects except the Catholics ever claimed divine authority. The Roman Catholic church declares, in A Catechism of Christian Doctrine, published under the authority of Archbishop Gibbons: "The means instituted by our Lord to enable men at all times to share in the fruits of his redemption are the Church and the Sacraments. The Church is the congregation of all those who profess the faith of Christ, partake of the same Sacraments, and are governed by their lawful pastors under one visible head. Jesus Christ is the invisible Head of - the Church. Our Holy Father, the Pope, the Bishop of Rame, is the Vicar of Christ on earth and the visible Head of the Church. The Pope, the Bishop of Rome, is the visible Head of the Church because he - is the successor. Of St. Peter, whom Christ made the chief of the Apostles and the visible Head of the Church. The successors of the other Apostles are the bishops of the Holy Catholic church. Christ founded the Church to teach, govern, sanctify, and save all men. The attributes of the Church are three: authority, infallibility, and indefectibility." The facts concerning the apostasy of the Catholic chureh is treated by Mosheim in his Ecclesiastical History very exhaustively. See article on apostasy, in the Ready Reference and Compendium. Divine authority in the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints rests squarely upon God who conferred the authority necessary to organize the Church, and to officiate in the ordinances of the gospel, upon Joseph Smith through revelation and through the restoration of the Aaronic and Melchizedek Priesthoods. The Aaronic Priesthood was conferred upon the Prophet by John the Baptist and the Melchizedek Priesthood was conferred upon Joseph Smith by the Apostles Peter, James and John. (See Doc. And Cov., and page 47 of the Ready Reference.) Without divine authority there will arise strife and confusion in religious affairs. And men who usurp that authority, even where they do so ignorantly, will find themselves, here and on the other side, subject to all kinds of darkness, error and delusion. Men must be converted to the need of divine authority, and they must receive that authority from one who has received it in direct line from God himself, if that man or woman grow and progress, receive light, truth and joy. 1. What do you mean when you speak of authority? 2.. What is a church? 3. 'Name some of the Protestant churches? 4, What can you say of the Roman Catholic church and the Greek Catholic church, with regard to their authority? 5.: Give an account of the great apostasy of the Christian church? 6. Why do men need divine authority in the world of spirits? 7. Why is the Bible an insufficient guide for any church? 8. Who gave the Prophet authority to organize the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints? 9. Who holds the authority in this Church? LESSON II.