WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
BURIAL CUSTOMS IN ENGLAND.
	Every Country has its peculiarities, and
England is no exception. One thing notice-
able is the church building at the cemetery,
with its wide covered arch, which separates
the church from the chapel. Services are
not held at the home, but at the church or
chapel mentioned, according to the faith of
the departed. As a rule the funeral cortege
drives under the arch, the coffin is borne
into church on the shoulders of four or six
pall bearers. The coffins are plain, of heavy
wood and have no shell, everything is black
about the ceremonies.
	Only rarely friends accompany the mourn-
ers who are composed of members of the
family only. The pall bearers are paid for
services; and on one occasion we saw the
money handed to them, while the closing
portion of the burial service was being read.
	Lonesome indeed the little group look, as
they occupy the few seats in the church.
The coffin is somewhat elevated; everything
is cold, dreary and cheerless. The priest
reads the burial service of the Church of
England, portions of which is taken from
the fifteenth chapter of Corinthians, in that
monotonous, chanting tone, but always the
words "I am the resurrection and the life"
are quoted. Service being over the pall
bearers carry the coffin as before; the priest
in his white robe, with wide bishop sleeves,
and black surplice over his black dress, and
prayer book pressed to his breast, solemnly
leads the procession to the grave, where he
again reads, "Man that is born of woman,
has not long to stay,—we brought nothing
into the world, and assuredly we can take
nothing out. Dust to dust (when the sex-
ton throws in a little hand full of earth)
ashes to ashes. O, Lord have mercy on our
souls. Amen."
	Looking down into the grave about nine
feet deep (four or five are buried on each
other) the bereaved ones dropping a few
quiet tears turn away, leaving the form so
dear to them, to be covered up at the time
and convenience of the sexton.
	And well it is in one way; they cannot see
how the coffin is jerked around to free it of
the ropes. In one instance they were caught;
a lad about fourteen, was dropped down on
the coffin, and lighting on the plate with his
hobnailed shoes, crushed it in; the sexton
joking meanwhile and laughing, was pulling
up the ropes, when a handle torn from its
a stenings was pulled up, falling on the cof-

[Column 2]
fin. With feelings indescribable one turns
away.
	A warm day in the early autumn, again in-
vites a walk through the cemetery; and with
book in hand it is a pleasure, to sit on one of
the rustic seats, charmingly situated in a leafy
alcove, commanding a view of the grounds,
and there study concerning the mystery of
life and death, and God's word eoncerning
us, and our state hereafter.
	Meditating in deep thought, a little fun-
eral procession catche[-] the eye. Slowly it
wends its way, to only a short distance from
the spot, where we are sitting, where plainly
to be seen is an open grave, not before no-
ticed. A pall bearer with white gloves, is
carrying a little white coffin, whose occupant
could not have been many weeks in this
"vale of tears" the young father and mother
following. The first baby was plainly writ-
ten, as the group surrounded the grave.
	The service is read, the minister returns to
the church; the bereaved parents look down,
(the mother's heart in her eyes,) for the last
glimpse of the tiny coffin, when her strength
failing, she is supported by her husband.
Then walk they wearily back to the desolate
home. A few tears of sympathy fall for the
unknown mourners. The scene brings back
other days, when we were the chief mourn-
ers in a like drama, in a land beyond the
sea.
	The present fades, and the hill far away,
where sleep thousands of God's children
rises to view, and pangs of sorrow again fill
the heart that was bereaved in the days long
ago. Still watching the young couple de-
scending to the gate, the glory of a Utah
sunset comes vividly to mind; and standing
by the graves of a household, we look to the
West; again the crimson and gold dazzle the
eye, as the sun's last rays, scintillate over
the broad bosom of the Great Salt Lake.
	The well known surroundings are there;
and stepping lightly on the green grass that
covers them over, each mound is visited.
But it is only a day dream, the present
comes forcibly to mind, as the thud of a
heavy iron falls on the ear, and suddenly we
become aware that the little grave is being
filled up.
	Is it possible that they are pounding on
that frail, little coffin in that way? Yes, it
is too true. One man throws in a few shovels
full of earth, while another stands in the
grave and pounds it down. It makes one
shudder; every thud seems to strike the
heart, for surely that little one must be
crushed to pieces. This is the custom, so
that the earth taken out, is forced back
again; then the sod that has been rolled on
the side, is again replaced, and on the mor-
row, none would ever knew an interment
had taken place.
	Sick at heart we leave for the town, won-
dering if every one who has been laid there
to rest, had been beaten out of all semblance
of the human, as soon as left by their loved
ones. How dear is home and the customs
of the Saints!
	A Winter Burial. The day has been bleak
and cold, the sun giving no light, to dispel
the gloom. Walking rapidly on the broad,
hard road of the cemetery, we see a funeral

[Column 3]
procession, just emerging from the chapel
side, of the edifice before mentioned. Num-
bers of mourners follow the pall bearers, and
a clergyman (Wesleyan) precedes them to
the grave. The prayer book is opened, a
rather lengthy service read; when near its
close, in a solemn voice he says, "Oh, Lord
may this sister come forth in the General
Resurrection, at the Great and Last Day."
	The mourners seem much affected, little
groups of them taking their last farewell, of
this aged mother and friend; then they slow-
ly turn away, going back to the duties of
the living, one Martha remarking, "that she
must be going, so as to be back to get tea."
	The children (all grown) with their friends,
take out the immense handkerchiefs used
here, which as they flutter, look like white
flags, wipe their falling tears, then follow
the rest down the green slope, and soon all
are gone.
	The casket is not known here, the old
fashioned coffin still holds its own, and the
grave is dug to that shape. Looking down
we read the name, and "aged 60 years."
But the closing words of the service ring in
our ears, "to come forth in the General Re-
surrection at the Great and Last Day." O,
how long that will be! Yet that is all they
ask. She had been a good mother, no doubt,
through heat of summer and cold of winter
had struggled on in life; had borne the sons
and daughters who had just laid her away;
had fulfilled her life mission to the best of
[-]er understanding and ability; she had grown
weary of the many and heavy burdens of
life, its crosses and losses and had now fal-
len asleep on the way, and was laid here
until "The General Resurrection at the
Great and Last Day."
	O, the darkness of the human mind, when
it is not illuminated by the light of truth!
	Other scenes of like nature, come to mind,
where the spot is reverently dedicated, for
the repose of the precious dust; that it may
be protected from the elements, from all
that would disturb; and there rest under the
charge of angels, "until the trump shall
sound, and the dead in the Lord shall come
forth, in the Morning of the First Resurrec-
tion, clothed with principalities and powers;
to dwell on the earth with the Redeemer a
thousand years." Then softly the hymn
floats on the air,
"Rest for the weary soul,
Rest for the aching head;
Rest on the hillside rest,
With the uncounted dead."
	But the sexton with aids come up to cover
up the sleeper, and the spell is broken. It
is a dull November day in England, and the
fog is settling down. With a warm feeling
in our hearts, of gratitude to God for the
Gospel, for a prophet's voice, and for an as-
surance, that if faithful, we will not have to
sleep, until "the General Resurrection, at
the Great and Last Day, we leave the City
of the Dead. LYDIA D. ALDER.


Dr. Cora Smith Eaton is chairman of the
Committee on Local Arrangements for the
National Suffrage Convention, to be held in
Seattle July next.


