SOCIAL HALL PARTIES.
	Thursday, February 9, 1909, the Social
Hall built at an early date, 1853, as a place
of amusement and recreation by President
Young and his coadjutors, was reopened
and rededicated for similar purposes as had
been designed in the distant past.
	The Genealogical Society of ladies had in-
terceded persistently with brethren in author-
ity in the Church, and finally succeeded in
getting the hall renovated and made suit-
able for a gathering place for said society
and others. The Presiding Bishop and his
Counselors rendered valuable assistance to
the sisters whose untiring energy and efforts
ultimately culminated in a series of enjoy-
able parties.
	The first one given was by the First Presi-
dency of the Church and the invited guests
were mostly those who were familiar with
the events, and incidents connected with
this notable structure in its palmy days.
After the banquet, which was a sumptuous
one, served in the commodious dining room,
downstairs; where many noble men and
women had been feasted royally in days
gone by, and many equal in merit surround-
ed the hospitable tables on the present occa-
sion. The floral table decorations were very
beautiful and fragrant, and a genial
spirit of good fellowship prevailed.
	Leaving the tables the goodly company
repaired to the upper room and platform
where a sort of program was given, Presi-
dent Joseph F. Smith, master of ceremonies,
who called upon Presiding Bishop C. W.
Nibley to offer the dedicatory prayer, which
was sublimely eloquent. Clive’s band was
in attendance and rendered beautiful music.
After singing a hymn, President Joseph F.
Smith made some explanations in regard to
the auspicious occasion and the energy of
the sisters who had been instrumental in
bringing about this change in the hall; com-
mended their efforts to restore the house so
full of memories of a bygone period; his re-
marks were poetical and he spoke with
great feeling and tenderness of those who
had been the founders of early efforts in cul-
ture and enjoyment for the people, who had
to struggle in building and making habitable
and beautiful the waste places. Referred
wtth great deference and tenderness to Brig-
ham Young and his associates in helping
the Saints to have suitable recreation and
enjoyment as well as labor.
	President Smith called upon a few of the
brethren to give brief reminiscenses; those
who had been familiarly conversant with the
theatres, balls and a variety of entertain-
ments that had been given in this unpreten-
tious edifice, sacred, too, because of those


[Column 1]
who had made their names illustrious in the
history of the Rocky mountain region, Elder
A. M. Musser, Hon. John T. Caine, Bishop
George Romney, Hon. W. W. Riter, Bishop
H. B. Clawson and his wife Margaret; Sister
Clawson had taken part in the first theat-
rical performance in the hall and in the old
bowery responded. Her repetition of the
scenes of the primitive attempts at ‘‘making
up” were intensely entertaining and she was
applauded to the echo.
	After the simple exercises that were in
excellent taste, dancing was announced,
commencing however, with a grand March.
The figures were old-fashioned plain quad-
rilles, French Four, Money Musk, Sir Roger
de Coverley, and Scotch Reels.
	Some of us who had attended parties in
this famous old hall could see imaginary
pictures and called up vivid recollections of
the people who had tripped fantastically
in the mazy dances of the “Long Ago.”
	Toward the close of the evening some ap-
propriate closing remarks were made by
President Smith in which he informed the
company that it was the one hundredth and
ninth anniversary of the birth of his father,
Hyrum Smith, (the patriarch and martyr.)


	The second party of the series was given
by the Genealogical Society and was a
splendid success in every particular, a delic-
ious hot supper was served, three long tables
filled as before, and lovely decorations, and
conversation among the guests of “ye olden
time” the social festivities and old-time
games and dances, and who played the fid-
dles and where were they now? All gone
save one, “Josh Midgley.’” Only a few
women of that very early day in the fifties
when such men as Presidents Brigham
Young, Heber C. Kimball, Daniel H. Wells,
George A. Smith and others mingled in the
dance and festivities of those memorable
years of Utah’s early history of events.
	After the delicious repast the guests re-
paired to the upper hall and platform and
the exercises began with singing, an appro-
priate hymn, and prayer was offered by Elder
Hyrum M. Smith, after another hymn being
rendered, President Anthon H. Lund gave a
short synopsis of the Genealogical work, ex-
plaining how diligent and faithful the sis-
ters had been who had undertaken it, and
spoke very highly of them, and portrayed
somewhat briefly the future of this mag-
nanimous work for the dead. Elder Heber
J. Grant sang during the evening, “The
Flag Without a Stain.” Clive’s band were
in place on the platform, and dancing be-
gan and continued for some time, all seem-
ing to enjoy the exercise, judging by appear-
ances; finally there was a sort of interval
and singing and conversation was indulged
in meanwhile. Dr. Seymour B. Young took
the lead in singing, “There is Sunshine in
my Soul,” in which many joined, President
John R. Winder singing as clearly and with
as much enthusiasm as any young man.
President Joseph F. Smith’s presence was
missed, but the fact that he was away for a
rest and a change compensated in some
measure for his absence. However both his
Counselors and several members of the
quorum of the Apostles were present and
the party was really very enjoyable and ex-
hilarating, especially for those who took part
in the dancing, although, meeting one’s
friends’and exchanging courtesies is quite
good for us all, calling up old memories and
inquiring after friends of former days.

[Column 2]
	The third party of the series was given
Thursday March 18, and by the bye, was the
birthday anniversary of Susa Young Gates.
who was the first child born in the Lion
House, and really the fact should have been
announced there, even at the risk of vexing
the lady herself.
	The gathering was called the Kirtland
party, and as many Kirtland people and
their descendants as could be found were in-
vited. The secretary, Miss Annie Lynch,
sent out a large number of letters, in fact,
we are told, six hundred invitations were
issued to those whose names could be ascer-
tained.
	Elder George D. Pyper was master of
ceremonies and the exercises of the eve-
ning began with prayer by Elder Milando
Pratt and the hymns that were sung were
those that had been favorites of the Saints
in the Kirtland Temple. The dancing was,
perhaps, a little more old-fashioned than at
the other parties, beginning with a grand
march, in which nearly all present partici-
pated. There were some unique features of
the evening; the committee were anxious to
know how many were present who had lived
in Kirtland and they were asked to stand;
five rose up on the platform in view of the
assembly; they were Sisters Martha D. Si-
mons, Mary Ann Winters, and Sally Knight
Palmer, and patriarch John Smith and
W. C. Whitman. Sister Simons, who
who will soon be eighty-three, was asked to
speak, and among her reminiscences she
stated that she had seen the papyrus from
which the Pearl of Great Price was trans-
lated, and also the coins shown in the book;
she gave this as a testimony to the young
people. Sister Simons dances well, and very
much enjoyed it.
	Patriarch John Smith had with him a cane
owned by his father,Patriarch Hyrum Smith.
Brother W. C. Whitman presented a rare
relic, which the historic division of the Gen-
ealogical Society prize very much, a beauti-
fully carved cane, made by his nephew from
a newel post of the Kirtland Temple; this-
with other relics, made an interesting collec,
tion. Much enthusiasm is felt over these
historic parties. About fifty letters were re-
ceived from Kirtland pioneers and their
descendants who could not be present.
	A very interesting feature of the enter-
tainment was a recitation in costume called
Money Musk, by Mrs. Winniefred Brown,
given very dramatically, Professor C. D.
Schettler accompanying on the guitar. This
exercise was so applauded that the obliging
little lady gave an encore.
	A summary of the work of the So-
ciety had been prepared by Miss Lynch, the
secretary, who is indefatigable in her labors,
and was read by Elder George D. Pyper.
Sister Susa Young Gates made a short
speech in her original style, and Miss Ina
Smith had collected a few items of Church
history, notable events that had transpired
in the month of March, beginning with
1831, there were quite a few facts presented
that would be entirely new to most of those
present, therefore added to the pleasure
of music, dancing, etc., there was valuable
information given of past incidents and
events.
	The sisters who had been instrumental in
bringing so much real enjoyment to their
friends deserve our gratitude as well as sin-
cere congratulations, Sister Edna L. Smith,
Susa Y. Gates and Ann D. Groesbeck, and
their very efficient secretary, Annie Lynch.


