REMINISCENSES OF NAUVOO.

Written by Louisa Decker for the Exponent.

	My parents David and Louisa Norris were
born in the state of New York; when they
married moved to the state of New Jersey,
where their four children were born.
	About 1837 a traveling Elder, Ball by name
held a meeting at their house the subject be-
ing of faith, repentance and baptism. My
mother lay sick in the back room listening,
and was so convinced of the truth that shs
asked to be administered to and was bap-
tized in a river where the ice was cut away
to perform the ceremony, that restored her
to perfect health. She was wrapt in a quilt
oyer her wet clothes and rode a mile home,
changed her clothing, and cooked dinner for
the Elder and her family.
	This testimony I have heard her repeat
several times. My father did not join the
Church at this time, but a short time after
my eldest brother Nathaniel had taken a
severe cold and was becoming very deaf;
mother being of great faith sent for Brother
Ball and asked him to administer to my
brother; when he arrived he said Sister Nor-
ris do you have faith that he will be healed?
she answered certainly we have those pro-
mises. Then he repaired to the woods back
of the house evidently to seek the Lord in
prayer. Returning in about an hour he ad-
ministered to my brother, who was immedi-
ately healed and was never afflicted after-
wards. Then my father joined the Church,
sold his possessions and started to join the
Saints; got as far as Kirtland when the baby
sickened and died; which detained them so
late that he thought best to stay over one
year and work at his trade blacksmithing.
There he loaned out his money and failing
to get it, we were kept back two more years
which was a great worry to my parents, as
they had started for Missouri and a great
part of those left in Kirtland were weak in
the faith, or had left the Church altogether.
The last year we were there 1841 and 42 we
lived in the house of our Prophet Joseph
Smith near the Temple. My brother Nath-
aniel and sister Mary had been baptized. Just
before we left there I now being eight years
old I was baptized. The Saints had now
settled in Nauvoo at which place we arrived
in 1842; father built a house and blacksmith
shop on corner of Parley and Granger Street
near, the homes of many of the leading mem-
bers of the Church, and three blocks from
the Prophet’s home thus he was blest at last
to associate with the tried and true; he join-
ed the Quorum of the Seventies, also the
Nauvoo Legion and became one of Brother
Joseph’s body guard. Mother joined the
Relief Society, Emma Smith being presi-
dent; we now had an opportunity to get well
acquainted with the Prophet and his family.
My sister and I went to school with his chil-
dren in the new seventy’s hall a block west
of our house (the teacher named Kelsey
boarding at our house).
	The Temple was being built and each one
seemed to desire to help, and many sold
things that they could scarcely spare to put
the means towards the building. I can re-
member of my mother selling her China

[Column 2]
dishes and fine bed quilt, to donate her part.
	About this time there began a spirit of
apostaoy among a few that had been the
Prophet’s trusted friends, and with the ill
feeling of the out side influence caused him
much sorrow and this bitter feeling grew,
urged on by our Missouri enemies. There
was a paper started to keep the bitter feel-
ing s tirred up something after the style of
the “Tribune” here. It became necessary
to keep night watchmen out to prevent a
surprise or an assassination, there were false
charges gotten up to get possession of the
Prophet and take him away from his friends
which was finally accomplished as is well
known by all.
	The Nauvoo Legion wished to go with
him but in his last talk with them; he said
brethren stay at home and also said “I go
as a Lamb to the slaughter.” Brothers Hy-
rum Smith, John Taylor, and Willard Rich-
ards and some others accompanying him on
the way going with him; the Church history
records the dreadful tragedy; my father was
on guard that night, he came in early in the
morning with the sad news, that caused the
greatest sorrow and mourning ever felt
throughout the city.
	There was no breakfast eaten in our home
that morning before the burial of Brother
Joseph and his brother Hyrum; the Saints
had the privilege of passing through the
Mansion house and taking a last sad look at
them.And when I saw where the bullet
had pierced the face of Brother Hyrum that
had caused his death it made a lasting im-
pression on me that I never can forget; the
burial soon followed using great caution as
there were spies on the watch to betray. I
go sometimes and listen to the trusted old
man that dug the graves at night, he is still
living among us and his face lights up with
joy when he says “and I never told a living,
soul” until asked by one having authority,
“Where was my father buried?” he also told
me he was drummer in the Nauvoo Legion
and cut stone on the Nauvoo Temple.
	Not satisfied yet those opposed to us be-
gan a series of persecutions; also a great
apostacy took place and jealousy arose as to
who should lead the Church. Sidney Rig-
don, Lyman Wight and Strang had their
followers but when a meeting was called
and Brigham Young arose and spoke with
power, it was as if the Prophet Joseph’s very
voice spoke through him. I heard my father
and mother when they returned from meet-
ing testify to this, and many others since
then. I believe it was the largest attended
meeting ever held in Nauvoo. So many
among us now drawing away from the
Church and the opposition from outside made
very trying times for us and a night guard
had to be kept. My father and many of the
Nauvoo Legion were called to this duty.
Father working at his trade through the day
and standing guard at night. Now com-
menced a system of getting up false charges
against our leading members to have them
arrested, to take them away as they had done
our Prophet and often they were seen by the
guard prowling around the homes of the
Apostles until it was not safe to stay in their
own homes.


There were an old couple named Simons
living across the street from us that made
them welcome in their up stairs rooms.
 *	*	*	*	*	*	*	*
	Now the necessary preparations were
being made for the journey west. The
Twelve and others that were in the greatest
danger from outside influence going first.
Those staying aiding in helping them. This
was father’s busy time the blacksmithing
being in great demand. He worked on a
good part of the 42 wagons that carried the
first company out; working early and
as late as ten o’clock at night. Mother stay-
ing up to get father an extra supper and then
going on guard in his turn. The Temple
being partly finished in the winter of 1846
the work there was being hurried through.
My father, mother, brother and sister re-
ceived the ordinances. My sister was mar-
ried to John Murdock and journeyed with
his people westward.
	All this time the persecutions never abat-
ed. Men that had work outside of city
limits were caught and unmerciful whipt.
One night Uncle Phineas Young and his son
B. H. Young came late at night to our
house, said they were riding with a brother
that was coming in with his team. They
saw some of these desperadoes hurrying
after them. They run and hid in the grass
but were near enough to see the man with
the team caught stript tied to his wagon
wheel and whipt until his groans ceased
when he fainted. They then crawled through
the grass until a safe distance to run. This
is only one of the cruel things that was hap-
pening right along on the out skirts of town.
Women and helpless children were carried
from a sick bed and laid on the ground
while their house and goods were burned.
Wheat, haystacks and barns were burned
and the cattle driven off. Many families
that had depended on their land for a living
had to come into the city for protection. I
have watched the smoke arise and knew
more homes were being burned. Companies
and single families were crossing the river
all summer camping on the other side or
pursuing their journey west. Some getting
work to feed their families, a few were stay-
ing hoping to sell for a little. There were
some strangers coming into secure cheap
homes. I think my father sold his five
roomed house for a yoke of oxen but do not
know as his records and the account of the
work he did in helping the brethren off (for
they were in no condition to pay at that
time) the papers were lost at winter quarters,
but all those debts were later forgiven.
	Later on about the first of August, 1846,
father was ready to start on his journey. By
this time the mobbing and driving every Mor-
mon out of the city was the plan of our ene-
mies. Father felt it his duty to stay, saying
he could not desert his brethren in their great
need. And when hundreds of the mob came
with their guns and cannons and camped near
the city, our people gathered there men and
boys and camped out making ready to resist
the enemy that so greatly out numbered them,
that it looked like almost a hopeless task,
when camped out about a week, there were
some musket shots fired and cannon shot
off at our people. Saturday they moved up
to close range, then there was a hard fought
battle so near that we could see clouds of
smoke arise and hear the roar of cannon
while listening I counted 72 cannon shots
fired, not realizing that one of these shots
had deprived us of a kind father’s care but
the news was already on the way and my

[Column 2]
mother’s cry of anguish was bo distressing
that the messenger, a strong man, wept.
We never knew how many of the enemy
were taken off. Our people lost three, Brother
Anderson and son. My father David Norris
was instantly killed by a cannon ball. The
late Henry Grow stood by his side and when
the order came to them to march to the
front of a field where the enemy had
started to come in back of our people and
surround them cutting off a chance of retreat.
Henry Grow was walking in father’s foot-
steps. In telling me this he said one step
more and it would have been him. Providence
calls one and leaves another. Later in the
day a flag of truce was carried over and a
treaty made that all that did not renounce
their religion should cross the river in three
days. Should stack their guns and ammuni-
tion in the Temple. And they came Mon-
day and took possession of the city and
searched the houses to see there were no weap-
ons hidden. Father’s body was brought home
at dusk. My brother was released from duty,
we had not seen him for a week, he lay down
in mother’s room up stairs. Mother had been
in poor health most of the summer and was
now prostrated with grief. My little brother
Benjamin, five years old, had cried himself
to sleep. This left me alone down stairs
with the dead. A tallow candle for light,
the blood dripping, dripping from the body all
night and lay on the bare floor in a puddle.
My brother before he lay down to rest said
he expected two men to come for the night,
but they were called away on duty. The
city was guarded to keep from being sur-
prised. We knew by sad experience the
enemy could not be trusted. My brother
said if I heard the horn blow or bells ring-
ing to call him that would be the signal that
the mob were coming. Once the horn blew
but it was a false alarm, I did not call him,
I thought he had done his part. He was in
his 17th year and I was 12 years old and a
very timid child, and the night was lonely.
I, only going to the foot of the stairs to
speak to mother a time or two, a man came
in the morning with team and a hasty made
coffin, in which he was laid, wrapt in a
sheet. There was no time to make a robe
nor any one to make it. My mother still
bed fast was left with her little boy. While
the funeral procession, consisting of Brother
Nathaniel, myself and a Brother Coulay fol-
lowed the wagon to the grave just west of
the Temple, a short prayer was said and his
body was laid to rest.	
		(To be continued.)


