THE NEW PRESIDENT.

	Out of the multitudinous events that have
recently transpired and occur from day to
day it is difficult to select the most impor-
tant, and one feels as if one line about each
would fill volumes of space. But in the
United States during the present month of
March 1909—there has taken place one event
of paramount significance to the people of
this great Republic. The inauguration of
the new President Wm. H. Taft whom all
Republicans and doubtless many Democrats
seem to recognize as the best representative
for that position of all the people of this
country, except may be a few who still seem
to regret Theodore Roosevelt would not run
for a third term.
	The writer is not familiar enough with the
public affairs of this great work of adminis-
tration of the President and Cabinet to give
an opinion, but judging from those who do
know a great deal of the business of this
mighty nation—we may look for wisdom
justice and prudence in the management of
all the grave questions that confront the
American people in these days of momen-
tous problems and magnificent triumphs the
world oyer: in advancement along the lines
of higher achievement with infinitely greater
advantages and power for controlling the
forces of nature and the elements that are
to be made the important factors in revolu-
tionizing the world of thought and activ-


ity. It will be for the well-being of America
to have confidence in the man who stands
at the head of the greatest interests of this
land of the free of which with great pride
Americans boast. Confidence and faith in
the integrity and magnanimity of the great
leader helps tho nation, as it helps in any
cause of great magnitude.
	It was a significant omen of good when
Mrs. Taft rode to the White House with her
husband after the inauguration and the Pre-
sident stepped into the Executive Mansion
with a woman on his arm; it was the first
occasion of such an incident, and it is a sign
of the times, and yet why should it seem
strange when the centuries passed have wit-
nessed the coronation of many women sover-
eigns in their own right.


[Column 1]
			IN MEMORIAM.
		ANNIE TAYLOR HYDE.
	We speak of the dear ones who have gone
from among the living as having passed to
the “beyond.” We know not just how to
express these things, and seemingly we try,
more or less in vain, to understand the mys-
tery of what we all term death.
	It is hard for those sorely tried to be com-
forted with the assurances of faith and hope
and after all only time can soften the in-
tense grief of an aching heart, bereft of
the nearest and dearest, and yet one
must believe all is well.

		“Beyond life’s trials and cares,
	Its hopes and joys, its miseries and sorrows,
	Its sleepless nights, its days of smiles and tears,
	Will be a long, sweet life unmarked by years,
		One bright, unending morrow.
	
		Beyond time’s troubled stream,
	Beyond the chilling waves of death’s dark river,
	Beyond life’s lowering clouds and fitful gleams,
	Its dark realities and brighter dreams—
		A beautiful forever.

		No aching hearts are there
	No forms by sickness wasted,
	No cheek grown pale by penury or care;
	No spirits crushed beneath the woes they bear,
		No sighs for bliss untasted.

		No sad farewell is heard,
	No lonely wail for loving ones departed,
	No dark remorse is there o’er memories stirred,
	No smile of scorn, no harsh or cruel word
		To grieve the broken-hearted.
	
		No long, dark night is there,
	No light from sun or silvery moon is given;
	But Christ, the Lamb of God all bright and
		fair,
	Illumes the city with effulgence rare,
		The glorious light of heaven!

		No mortal eye hath seen
	The glories of that land beyond the river
	Its crystal lakes, its fields of living green,
	Its fadeless flowers and the unchanging sheen
		Around the throne forever.

		Ear hath not heard the song
	Of rapturous praise within the eternal portal,
	No heart of man hath dreamed what joys be-
		long,
	To that redeemed and blood-washed happy
		throng,
		All glorious and immortal.”

	This poem seems to be particularly suited
to those who mourn the society of the most
beloved—a mother. There is no recompense
in this life except the thought of the greater
happiness of the higher life for the departed.
	What words are there however tender that
can soothe the pain that comes to those be-
reft of the dearest being on the earth, for
there is no one like a mother and no love
like Mother-Love.

[Column 2]
	Friends come with love and tenderness in
their souls and offer the balm of consolation,
bringing the best gifts they have to bestow,
but what does it avail? Such deep wounds
take time to heal, sometimes one thinks
’twere better not to speak, and yet that, too,
is cruel, and so we do our best to show our
love by kindly deeds, and sympathetic dem-
onstrations, to wipe away the tears of those
who mourn; the way is dark to them, as
they are blinded by tears, yet there is a
strong arm near to lean upon, a Guide who
never forsakes His own, his chosen ones, He
hears the cry of all who call on Him and
he will keep watch and ward.
	There is a great comfort in being near our
dear ones in the last trying hours, some-
times even that is not possible, to feel that
we have done all in our power to alleviate
pain, ministering with sweet words and
tenderness such as only loving hearts can
render, these blessings were given to Sister
Hyde in the long, tedious days and nights of
her lingering illness. Only those whose
love was surpassingly pure and uplifting
were near her; what a boon of comfort it
must have been, and she knew that hund-
dreds of her friends were praying for her re-
covery; praying she might live to accom-
plish all she desired. But death came and
set his seal upon her brow, and human
efforts were in vain to stay his hand. And
so finally she passed peacefully away.

	“O sweet is the slumber wherewith the King
		Hath caused the weary to rest!
	For sleeping they hear the angels sing,
		They lean on the Master’s breast.

	Sister Annie Taylor Hyde was an excep-
tionally bright and gifted and progressive
woman, she had in her girlhood all the ad-
vantages of a liberal education that the
schools and the Deseret University could
give at that period of time, and her home
life gave her rare opportunities. Her father,
President John Taylor, was a man of cul-
ture and scholarly attainments and took
great pains with his childrens’ education,
her mother, Sister Jane Ballantyne Taylor
was a genuine Scotch gentlewoman in its
true and best sense, and therefore Annie had
the excellent training in girlhood to prepare
her for the position of wife and mother, and
to step forward into the world of affairs, and
do an excellent public work. She had also
every advantage of religious training possi-
ble in the early days. One might say she
was thoroughly equipped for the mission
given her later in public life, by early asso-
ciation and discipline. She commenced as
a teacher in Sunday School at thirteen, and
afterwards taught for some time a private
school in connection with her sister, Sophia
Taylor Nuttall, and she had the best social
advantages the city of Salt Lake afforded
in those days. Occasionally she accompan-
ied her father on his preaching tours through
different parts of the state and this gave her
a wide experience among the people in var-
ious localities.
	Annie Taylor was born in Salt Lake City
October 21, 1849—and was married to
Alonzo E. Hyde on the 15th of December.
1870. The marriage ceremony was performed
by her father Apostle John Taylor.
	Her home was a pattern of exquisite
neatness and skilled housewifery, and she de-
veloped the best and truest characteristics of
motherhood in its fullest sense. Sister
Hyde had excellent taste in dress and in the
furnishing and adornment of her home, she
loved beautiful things in nature and in art,
and was especiaally fond of flowers, partic-
ularly delicate roses.


[Column 1]
	Sister Hyde was fond of travel and after
her marriage had opportunities to visit
many of the large cities East and West,
even before she had commenced a public
career; these trips of course, gave her
broader views and enlightenment upon his-
tory of cities and countries and the topics of
the times, and also widened her horizon.
	She went abroad with her husband in
1895, and traveled in England, her father’s
native land, and in Scotland (her mother’s
native home) also visited France, she was a
good observer and was able to converse in-
telligently of the most interesting, attract-
ive and historical scenes and places, and of
the beautiful in nature, as well as art. The
most celebrated cities, London, Paris and
Edinburgh, she thoroughly enjoyed and
could describe entertainingly, and those who
heard her speak in the “Reapers” after her
return home, were delighted with the graph-
ic description that she gave of the wonders of
the old world.
	Her first call to public duty after her
marriage, was when she was selected as
counselor to sister Hannah T. King Presi-
dent of the Y. L. M. I. A. of the Seventeenth
ward; she was at that time a young mother,
and in 1896 she was chosen by President
M. Isabella Horne to be first counselor in
the Relief Society in the Salt Lake Stake,
then including all Salt Lake County.
	In November 1901—when the General
Relief Society was reorganized after the de-
mise of its President, Zina D. H. Young,
she was elected First Counselor to the new
President, Sister Bathsbeba W. Smith, and
retained this position at the time she passed
away.
	April 11, 1901, she called together a few
of the daughters of the pioneers and effected
an organization on that day, the anniversary
of her mother’s birthday; she was elected
President and afterwards given the title of
Founder-General of the Daughters of the
Pioneers, a prosperous society which has its
headquarters in the historic Lion House.
During the period of time Sister Hyde has
held office in the General Relief Society as
First Counselor, she has visited Conferences
in nearly all of the Stakes of Zion, and
many of the missions, where there are
branches of the Relief Society, and has be-
come well known to the members, who will
mourn her loss to the society at large, and
to the sisters personally, who have very
gratefully appreciated her teachings and in-
structions, as also her smiling face, and
cheerful countenance, wherever she met with
them, or wherever she journeyed, whether
the ways were rough or smooth.
	Sister Annie T. Hyde has also represented
the Relief Society in the Triennial of the
National Council of Women of the United
States in Washington, and expected to be in
attendance as a speaker in the Quinquennial
of the International Council of the Women
of the world to be held in Toronto, Canada,
in June, 1909.
	She has been appointed on important
committees in the National Council, and
has held other positions of honor and trust.
	She has been one of the Salt Lake Tem-
ple workers for a number of years and gave
valuable service in the Bureau of Informa-
tion. She possessed in a marked degree
the qualities of leadership.
	In her own household she was recognized
as the sweetest, tenderest and most devoted
of mothers, yet requiring obedience from her
children, who were efficiently trained in the
principles of the Gospel and all needful
home instructions, as well as the graces and

[Column 2]
accomplishments to prepare them for the
exigencies of life.
	Brother and Sister Hyde had eight chil-
dren born to them, all still living, four boys,
and four girls, Alonzo E. Hyde, Jr., Orson
John Hyde, Harold and Gordon Hyde, the
two last are away filling missions, one in
Great Britain, the other in the Sandwich
Islands; the others are Laura, now (Mrs.
Joseph F. Merrill;) Edna, (Mrs. A. J.
Ridges) Beatrice, (Mrs. Rollin W. Dole) and
Miss Jean Hyde. Sister Hyde also leaves
thirteen grandchildren.
	During her illness of several months she
has displayed faith, courage and endurance
almost beyond belief; only surrendering to
the inevitable; in this she manifested her
great strength of character and power to do
battle with the enemy of all flesh.
	She has finished her work and her suffer-
ings are over, and she has gone to a haven
of rest and peace. It may well be said of her
“Her children rise up and call her blessed,
her husband also and he praiseth her.”
	Sister Annie Taylor Hyde passed peace-
fully away at her beautiful home opposite
the Temple in this city, on Friday, March
12, at 2:10 p. m.; her husband and children
were at her bedside, bowed in deepest grief,
sorrow and mourning.
	The funeral of Sister Hyde was held in the
Salt Lake Assembly Hall, Tuesday March, 12,
at 12 M. The services were conducted by Bish-
op F. S. Tingey of the Seventeenth Ward, and
present on the stand were Presidents John
R. Winder and Anthon H. Lund, Elders F.
M. Lyman, H. J. Grant, Hyrum M. and
George A. Smith, of the Apostles. The
stand and organ were draped in white, and
a life-sized picture of the deceased hung in
front of the organ. The floral offerings
were very lovely; and many of them deli-
cate and fragrant gifts from dear ones,
they quite covered the elegant white casket
and also the lower part of the stand.
	The opening hpmn rendered by the Tem-
ple choir was “O, my Father,” and President
Nephi L. Morris of the Salt Lake Stake
offered the prayer. Sister Lizzie Thomas
Edward sang exquisitely “Who are these
arrayed in white.”
	The speakers were Elder J. Golden Kim-
ball who referred to her many virtues and
brave endurance of trial, etc.
	Sister Alice Merrill Horne, who paid a
glowing tribute to her memory also her
noble character as a woman and a Saint,
and to her untiring devotion and profound
knowledge of Relief Society work.
	President Bathsheba W. Smith rejoiced
in the belief that she had gone in peace and re-
ferred to her integrity and faithfulness, said
she knew she would miss her in the Relief
Society.
	Charles R. Pike sang, “I know that my
Redeemer Liveth,” a favorite hymn of Sister
Heyde’s.
	Elder F. M. Lyman read from the Book
of Doctrine and Covenants, referring to the
condition of those who die, even where there
has been great exercise of faith manifest.
He said her time had come, She had done
her work and done it well. Said it was
proper that all should go when their work
was done. Spoke of the joys of the meeting
on the other side, and invoked God’s bless-
ing on the family.
	President John R. Winder said he could
imagine her father standing on the other
side waiting with outstretched arms to wel-
come his daughter, wbo had been a good
mother and faithful Latter-day Saint. He
remembered Annie and her sister Sophia

[Column 3]
Taylor when they were children, and said
many more good things.
	The choir sang the glorious hymn, “Abide
With Me,” and Elder Seymour B. Young
read a few lines from a poem and pro-
nounced the benediction.
	In the long line of carriages that followed
the remains of the deceased to the cemetery,
besides those containing the family and rela-
tives, there were four carriages filled with
the officers and board of the General Relief
Society, and the big Utah in which were
some of the Daughters of the Pioneers,
about thirty.
	At the grave the choir sang “Rest on the
hillside, rest,” and sister Hyde’s brother,
John W. Taylor, dedicated her last resting
place.


