		A TRIBUTE.

	“She was dead, no sleep so beautiful and
calm, so free from toil and pain, so fair to
look upon.”
	Without a struggle, without a throb, with-
out a sigh, the beautiful spirit of Mamie
Cannon passed into eternal life; so silently,
so softly, so sweetly, that even those who
waited breathlessly around could scarcely
tell when the heart stopped beating; and
when alas to their numbed senses the real-
ization came, grief was glorified with the
heavenly influence of so sweet a death.
	A lovelier, truer woman never lived than
Mary Alice Cannon, and her place in the
hearts of those who knew her, can never be
filled. Even as a little child she possessed
most womanly traits; and though strong in
character she was always yielding, obedient
and thoughtful as occasion demanded. She
was of a most lovable disposition, yet pos-
sessed the quality of a leader among her as-
sociates. It was to her, her friends would go
for sympathy when sorrow came to them,
and it was to her they would go to tell their
triumphs, for there was always in her heart
a responding and sympathetic chord for each
and every condition. She was a woman of
many talents, not the least among them her
exquisite wit and power of imitation—such
qualities as render conversation so delight-
ful; and her natural refinement and gentle-
ness were marked characteristics.
	On the morning of March the first she was
called home to her heavenly Father after an

[Column 2]
illness of less than three weeks—an illness
which only a few days before had not ap-
peared serious. We have to submit to the
inevitable, and with such a sublime faith as
she possessed, we must realize with her that
God knoweth best and doeth all things well;
and yet it is sometimes hard to understand
why one so needed here and so beloved
should be taken away.
	Mary Alice Cannon was the wife of Bishop
Lewis M. Cannon and the eldest daughter
of President George Q. Cannon and Elizabeth
Hoagland. She was born on the sixteenth
of October 1867. As a little girl she showed
the qualities of leadership, and her many
brothers were always proud to follow her ex-
ample and champion her cause in childish
warfare. She spent two seasons in Washing-
ton with her parents when President Cannon
was Utah’s delegate in Congress. She also
made many trips with her father, whom she
idolized, east and west, as well as accompany-
ing him in frequent trips throughout the
state. Her mother died when Mamie, as we
love to call her, was only fourteen years old
and the circumstances were most pathetic,
for her father was absent in Washington
contending for the rights of the people, and
her two older brothers, Jno Q., and Abram
were on missions in Europe. There were
three younger children left in her care, David,
Emily and Sylvester, and to them she has
always performed the part of mother and
sister too. Even after her marriage and the
making of another home, she still showed
the same thoughtfulness and tenderness to-
wards her brothers and sisters, and when her
brother David died while on his mission in
Germany, her grief was as great as a moth-
er’s could have been. She passed also the
trial of losing her first born, a beautiful boy,
named Lewmar; but through all her life she
showed noble and faithful resignation, and
lived the life of a consistent and true Latter-
day Saint.
	She has left, besides her sorrowing hus-
band and six beautiful children, who will al-
ways mourn her loss, many brothers and
sisters and loved ones and a host of friends
who will always cherish the memories of her
beautiful life. She was not inclined to public
life in any way but performed some loving
duties in the ward where her husband pre-
sides as bishop, having been a teacher in the
parents class in Sunday School, also coun-
selor to the president of the Ward Primary
Association. She acted with much ability
as the representative of the Stake Relief So-
ciety on a commitee for the betterment of the
young people, and she was a loyal member
of the society known as The Daughters of
the Revolution. Her natural tastes and sym-
pathies, however, were more in the home
circle, where she displayed all the virtues
and acquirements of a perfect wife and
mother.
