WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
			ALPINE STAKE.
	The quarterly conference of the Relief So-
ciety of Alpine Stake was held at Lehi, Fri-
day, October 30th, 1908. President Rebecca
Standring presiding. Meeting opened at 10
o’clock by the choir singing, “Praise to the
man who communed with Jehovah.” Prayer
was offered by Stake Counselor A. J. Evans.
Singing, “Come ye who love the Lord.”
Minutes read, etc. All wards represented.
	President Standring welcomed the sisters.
Was thankful for the good reports she re-
ceived from the stake officers, as she was
not always able to visit the wards as much
as she would like. Prayed that faith might
increase with the sisters. Urged the teachers
to do their duty and inquire into the feelings
and condition of the sisters. Spoke of the
General Relief Society Conference at Salt
Lake and felt that the blessing she received
had fully paid her for attending. The sisters
were there urged to teach the young women
the importance of Temple ordinances and
marriage for eternity. Also that the sisters
could take the holy oil and administer to the
sisters and their children. “We know there
is no blessing that will be withheld from the
sisters if they are faithful.”
	The four wards of Lehi were reported by
their respective presidents. All united, of-
ficers and members. All in good working
condition. Attend to the mothers lessons
and enjoy the teachings they get. Are mak-
ing clothing and quilts for the poor, and have
put their granaries in good condition for
keeping the wheat.
	Song, “Only waiting,” Sisters Clarke and
Whitman.
	Brother Jos. H. Clarke of the Stake Presi-
dency made an excellent address full of in-
spiration and wisdom. He touched briefly
upon many subjects pertaining to life here
and hereafter, care of children, eternity of
marriage, etc.
	A brief sketch of the life and and labors
of President Rebecca Standring was read by
Sister Sina Chipman.
	Sister Standring responded in a few fitting
words, giving the glory and praise to God
for all the gifts bestowed upon her, and for
all her blessings.
	Singing, “Glory to God on high.” Bene-
diction by Counselor Harriet Jacobs.
	Conference adjourned until 2 o’clock.
	Afternoon Session at 2 o’clock. President
Standring presiding. Counselor Jacobs in
charge. Opening devotional exercises, mi-
nutes, etc.
	Counselor Harriet Jacobs in her opening
address spoke of the care given to the sick,
this is preparing us for our future life.
Thanked the officers and committee who had
prepared such a nice entertainment for all
the sisters present during the noon recess.
	Three wards of American Fork were re-
ported by the presidents, all doing nicely
with an increase in attendance. Keep in
close touch with the wards. Help those who
are crowded with sewing for the children.
Gain a benefit from “mothers lessons.” Have
sent two young sisters to the Nurse class.
Teachers doing well and trying to have Gos-
pel talks with the sisters in their homes.
	Instrumental music by Sister J. Allred
Webb.
	Stake President Stephen L. Chipman was
delighted with the exercises, and the spirit
of peace and good will that exists, also with
the testimonies borne. Rejoiced in the word
of wisdom being kept, it is an old subject
and we each of us know how well we have
lived up to its requirements; he then read

[Column 2]
the revelation on the word of wisdom which
was given to the Prophet Joseph Smith, and
which we have now been required to observe
as a commandment. The people should be
constrained to observe it as a duty. Some
have one excuse and some another. Hoped
that before many years that we will have no
saloons in our midst and they who run them
will find better occupation, then there will
be more happiness and comfort in our fami-
lies. Let us stand shoulder to shoulder and
see if we cannot make an improvement in
this line. May the Lord bless you in your
labors.
	Duett, “Sometime, somewhere,” Sisters
Korten and Stice.
	Sister Annie C. Hindley gave a very inter-
esting sketch of the life of Sister Emma Hale
Smith, wife of the Prophet Joseph Smith,
showing her humility of heart, her devotion
to her husband and her ability to preside.
	Brother A. J. Evans, of the Stake Presi-
dency, felt happy to see so many young
mothers present, and heartily endorsed the
revelation read by President Chipman and
also his remarks on the same. Sisters, plead
with your husbands to refrain from the habit
of smoking, for their sakes, for your sake,
and for the childrens sake. Referred to the
sermon on the Mount and advised the sisters
to read all three chapters. Our mission is to
keep our light burning; speak words of kind-
ness to those who are in trouble.
	President Standring rejoiced in this day’s
conference. Thanked all who had taken
part in any way and blessed the sisters.
Asked the Lord to strengthen us that we
may be able to put in practise the good in-
structions we have received today, desired
the blessing of the Lord on all present.
	After singing and prayer conference ad-
journed for three months.
			EMMA FEATHERSTONE,
							Secretary.
			DAVIS STAKE.
	Minutes of one hundred and twenty-
fourth conference of the Davis Stake Relief
Society held January 29, 1909 at Bountiful,
Utah, President M. E. Knowlton presiding.
	Opened with usual exercises of singing
and prayer.
	Counselor Elizabeth Ford was pleased to
meet the brothers and sisters in conference
this morning. Said we are all united in
our labors as a board, and made explana-
tions about the Stake work.
	Counselor Emma J. Strong felt well in
attending conference. Spoke on the sub-
ject of Temple work and thought a great
deal of good will result from the efforts of
the sisters in working in the Temple. If
we observe the Word of Wisdom and live
near to the Lord, we will not have so much
illness in our families.
	A vocal solo, “Face to Face,” was rend-
ered by Miss Cora Barlow.
	Reports were then heard from the follow-
ing branches: South Bountiful, West
Bountiful, East Bountiful, Centerville and
Farmington.
	Elder Wallace W. Willey felt pleased with
the reports. The Relief Society should be
second to no other organization in the
Church. It is a great benefit to women and
all married women should be members. The
Relief Society is a great benefit to the bish-
ops of each ward.
	Sister Mary Woolley, Stake missionary,
said she was interested in Relief Society
work and loved it. It is truly a privilege to
visit the different organizations in the stake.

[Column 3]
We find the spirit of the Lord wherever we
go.
	President M. E. Knowlton was delighted
and was pleased the elements were favor-
able to our conference. After indefatigable
labor and effort the outlines of study for the 
Relief Society for 1909, and 1910 were
completed at last. We have a lew copies
for distribution this morning. They have
been approved of by the General Board and
the stake Presidency.
	President Nancy Willey of East Bounti-
ful said we have prepared lunch and desire
all to remain and partake of it.
	Singing “Glorious things of thee are
spoken.”
	Prayer by President Emma J. Strong.
	Officers meeting held at 1 p. m. Prayer
by President M. E. Knowlton. A calendar
of visits for the coming year was prepared
each president giving the time and date of
holding their meeting.
	Sister Myra Winegar was released as
Stake missionary. Sisters Edith Eldredge
of West Bountiful, Ellen Smith of Clearfield
and Esther Haddock of Clinton were sus-
tained and set apart as Stake missionaries.
	Sister Mary S. Leonard was honorably
released as assistant Stake secretary and
Sister Rozelpha J. Knowlton was unanimous-
ly sustained as assistant Stake secretary.
	The balance of the time was devoted to
the reading and discussion of the Outlines.
	Dismissed by Counselor Emma J. Strong.
	Afternoon session opened at 2 p. m.
with usual exercises.
	Counselor Elizabeth Ford was very well
pleased to see the large number present.
Of all women we are the most blessed in
our opportunities for doing good. I pray
that we may all live up to our privileges as
Latter-day Saints.
	The following society organizations were
then reported: Kaysville Layton, Clinton
and Clearfield.
	Sister Jane J. Eldredge spoke on the sub-
ject of obedience. None of us are our own
masters, as we are governed by the laws of
God, and we must bring ourselves under
subjection to his will. If we break these
laws we will suffer the penalty. It is one of
the greatesr laws of the kingdom of God, for
by being obedient we will progress and live
to better the world and better makind.
	Counselor Emma J. Strong said, I love
the society of the Relief Society sisters. I
have been asked to report our Temple work.
A day was selected the 22nd of January to
devote a day to work in the Temple for the
poor, or for those who cannot do their own
work. One hundred and seventy-nine re-
sponded, which exceeded our expectations.
In three months we will go again, as I think
it will do a lot of good. Spoke on the nec-
essity of observing the Word of Wisdom so
we can ask our Bishops for a recommend to
the House of the Lord.
	A quartette, “Come where the Lilies
Bloom,” was very nicely rendered by young
ladies.
	Counselor James A. Eldredge explained
the absence of President Grant and his
mother Sister Grant, as they were attending
services over the funeral remains of Sister
Rachel Grant today. Also spoke of the ill-
ness of Counselor Jesse M. Smith, which
prevented his attending the conference. There
is a great responsibility resting upon us as
Latter-day Saints, we receive so many in-
structions, we ought to be the best people on
earth. Gave a brief account of the first
organization of the Relief Society and the
first officers. From this small beginning


this society has increased to over 35,000
members.
	President M. E. Knowlton felt to endorse
all that had been said. If we have perfect
faith we can be healed instantly, but we
must be obedient to the will of our Father
in heaven. Life is not the dearest gift, a
great many things are of more importance.
Be reconciled to the will of the Father what-
ever it is.
	Sister Mary S. Clark, a very reverend
woman, for many years first counselor in the
Stake was well pleased to see so large a con-
gregation who were willing to lay aside their
work for one day and attend conference.
Let us attend to our prayers. Set a good
example before our children. I pray we
may be blessed as a people and live to receive
the reward prepared for the faithful.
	Conference aejourned for three months.
	Singing, "The Spirit of God like a fire is
burning."
	Benediction, Sister Catherine Knowlton.
