[WomansExponent | Vol20 | 1891 | April | Issue: 19 | Title: PRESIDENT JOSEPH F. SMITH. | Author: Unknown]

		PRESIDENT JOSEPH F. SMITH.
	O God, our Heavenly Father, we desire to draw
near unto Thee at this moment and offer unto
Thee the gratitude of our hearts for this pleasant
and blessed opportunity that we enjoy of assemb-
ling ourselves together on this the sixty-second
anniversary of the organization of Thy Church
in the earth in the dispensation of the fulness of
times. We thank Thee that on this occasion we
are permitted and privileged to lay the capstone
of this building which we have been permitted to
erect thus far unto the name of God, our Father


[Column 1]

in Heaven. And we pray thee, O Father in the
name of Jesus Christ, Thy Son, that Thou wilt
behold us in mercy on this occasion, and accept
of our dedication of ourselves, of our labors, of
all that we have and are upon the earth, unto
Thee, the Lord our God; for we desire to be
Thine, and we desire that Thou wilt accept of us
and acknowledge us as Thy children and that we
may feel in our hearts that our lives and our
course of action are acceptable unto Thee. We
feel Heavenly Father, to dedicate unto Thee at
this time the capstone of this Temple. That we
are permitted to lay it this day, we are grateful to
Thee, and thus finish the laying of the stones of
this building, which has been for thirty-nine years
in the course of its erection. We thank Thee for
the privilege. We pray Thee to sanctify this
service to our good. May it go down in the
memories of those that are assembled here, and
may it be retained in the memories of the young
—the children that are here in our midst—that
they may carry it to their latest day. We thank
Thee that there are a few of us here that were privi-
leged to behold the laying of the corner stones of
of this building, and that Thou hast preserved us
through years that have passed and brought us to
this present time under so favorable circum-
stances as those which surround us. Bless this
vast congregation of people; pour out Thy Holy
Spirit upon them; may they have the Spirit of
God to dwell in their hearts, and may the love of
truth actuate them in all that they do from this
time forth and for ever. Bless the workmen that
have labored upon this Temple; bless those that
shall be immediately engaged in laying the cap-
stone; bless Thine aged servant President Wood-
ruff, and sanctify to him the honor which is due
unto him, O God, of laying the capstone by the in-
strumentality of electricity, that great agency, the
discovery of which has been granted unto the
people of this generation.
	We ask Thee Heavenly Father, now to accept
of us, and to accept of our services, for all that
we do we desire to do in Thy name, and to Thy
name’s honor and glory and to our salvation. We
dedicate ourselves unto Thee. Accept of us we
pray Thee and sanctify unto us every dispensa-
tion of Thy providence, and help us to see and
acknowledge Thy hand cheerfully in all things.
	All of which we ask in the name of Jesus Christ
our Redeemer. Amen.
	The choir sang:
		Grant us peace.
	Architect Joseph Don Carlos Young shouted
from the top of the Temple:
	"The cap-stone is now ready to be laid."
		PRESIDENT WOODRUFF
stepped to the front of the platform and said:
	"Attention, all ye house of Israel and all ye
nations of the earth. We will now lay the top
stone of the Temple of our God, the foundation
of which was laid and dedicated by the Prophet,
Seer and Revelator Brigham Young."
	President Woodruff then pressed the button,
thus opening an electric current to machinery
connected with the capstone, the latter being thus
released and placed in position.
		THE HOSANNA.
	The immense concourse of people, led by
President Lorenzo Snow, shouted the hosanna in
concert:
	"Hosanna, hosanna, hosanna, to God and the
Lamb, Amen, Amen, and Amen."
	This was done three times, each shout being
accompanied by a waving of handkerchiefs, ex-
cept when the names of God and the Lamb were
uttered.
	The multitude of people, which must have
numbered from 40 to 44,000, who had gathered to
witness the ceremony of laying the top stone of
the Salt Lake Temple joining in the Hosanna
and waving their handkerchiefs like a great white\

[Column 2]

cloud, in appearance, was indeed beyond descrip-
tion, it was such as one seldom witnesses in a life-
time, emotional, inspirational to a degree the in-
tensity of which can only be realized by those
who participated in the sublime effort to praise
God.
	The choir and congregation then joined in sing-
ing that grand old hymn that has thrilled the
hearts of many thousands,

	"The Spirit of God like a fire is burning."

	This sacred and inspiring hymn sung by the
vast congregation assembled was of itself soul-
stirring and must have awakened many reminis-
cences in the minds of those who had witnessed
the great outpouring of the Holy Spirit on a cer-
tain occasion in the Kirtland Temple when the
same hymn was sung there more than fifty years
ago.
	Then the Union Glee Club sang,

