LESSON II
Work and Business
TEACHERS' TOPIC FOR DECEMBER. HOME TALKS?WHAT JESUS SAID
If ye love me, keep my commandments. John 14:15.
He that hath my commandments, and keepeth them, he it is that loveth me: and he that loveth me shall be loved of my Father, and I will love him, and will manifest myself to him. John 14:21.
I am the bread of life: he that cometh to me shall never hunger; and he that believeth on me shall never thirst. John 6:35.
Foxes have holes, and birds of the air have nests; but the Son of man hath not where to lay his head. Luke 9:58.
Blessed are the pure in heart: for they shall see God. Matthew 5:8.
No man can serve two masters: for either he will hate the one, and love the other; or else he will hold to the one, and despise the other. Ye cannot serve God and mammon. Matthew 6:24.
Blessed are the merciful: for they shall obtain mercy. Matthew 5:7.
Forgive and ye shall be forgiven. Luke 6:37.
For if ye forgive men their trespasses, your heavenly Father will also forgive you. Matthew 6:14.
Moreover if thy brother shall trespass against thee, go and tell him his fault between thee and him alone: if he shall hear thee, thou hast gained thy brother. Matthew 18:15.
It is more blessed to give than to receive. Acts 20:35.
Give, and it shall be given unto you; good measure, pressed down, and shaken together, and running over, shall men give into your bosom. For with the same measure that ye mete withal it shall be measured to you again. Luke 6:38.
A new commandment I give unto you, That ye love one another; as I have loved you, that ye also love one another. John 13:34.
By this shall all men know that ye are my disciples if ye have love one to another. John 13:35.
But I say unto you which hear, Love your enemies, do good to them which hate you. Luke 6:27.
And as ye would that men should do to you, do ye also to them likewise. Luke 6:31.
Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, and with all thy soul, and with all thy mind. This is the first and great commandment. And the second is like unto it, Thou shalt love thy neighbor as thyself. On these two commandments hang all the law and the prophets. Matthew 22:37, 40.
Have faith in God. Mark 11:22.
According to your faith be it unto you. Matthew 9:29.
I am the resurrection, and the life: he that believeth in me, though he were dead, yet shall he live: John 11:25.
I am come that they might have life, and that they might have it more abundantly. John 10:10.
Come unto me, all ye that labor and are heavy laden, and I will give you rest. Matthew 11:28.
Heaven and earth shall pass away: but my words shall not pass away. Luke 21:33.