LESSON VI. Social Service (Fourth Week in December ) INTELLECTUAL PROBLEMS Mavis The story of Mavis is not such a very unusual one. She is a fifteen-year-old girl, with a mental capacity of a ten-year-old child. It has been estimated that from five to ten per cent of the population fall in the same mental classification as Mavis. About ten children in every hundred in school are attempting to perform lessons which are too difficult for them. About ten men in every hundred are struggling to carry the responsibilities of adulthood, with the mental equipment of ten or twelve-year-old children. As many women in every hundred, with the same limited intelligence, are expected to assume the care of a household and the responsibility of rearing and training a family.; Persons who measure, intellectually, as Mavis does, are termed "morans." Her Intelligence Quotient is 70, which places her high in the group. The table of classification (page 76 Challenge of Childhood) of values ascribed to Intelligence Quotient, places individuals with I. Q's between 50 and 70 in the "moran" group. These persons have definite deficiency in mental powers and cannot be expected to compete successfully with normal or superior in-? dividuals. The persons in this group are part of the larger classification known as "feeble-minded." The other two classifications, the "idiot" (I. Q. Below 25) and the imbecile (I. Q. 25 to 50) have a far greater mental handicap. They are much more helpless, often not having the ability to learn to walk or talk. Usually the most humane treatment for these unfortunates is permanent institutional care, where under expert guidance they can be taught simple useful tasks. But Mavis and the great number of other "children who never grow up" present a more difficult social problem than the lower deficients who need and appreciate permanent custodial care. "Morans" or adults with eight or ten-year-old minds, cannot all be placed in institutions. In the. First place, the burden on the State would be too severe because of the number. Besides, these individuals frequently have certain powers and abilities that make social adjustment outside an institution possible. The individuals in this mental group vary as much as individuals in the normal group. There are all stages of skill or lack of skill in mental functioning just as there are all stages between physical health and fatal illness. The mental deficient lacks the power to perform all the things that a normal person does, but he thay be able to do one or two things very well. Perhaps the most current idea that is not based on fact is that mentally deficient persons are delinquent and vicious. The deficient person is not inherently more delinquent than the normal person. He is more gullible than a normal person, and is easily led into debt and financial trouble. When the heavy load of adult worries becomes too heavy for him, he may seek some childish escape?such as deserting his family and his debts, or embezzling small funds, or permitting his children to ask for pennies on the Streets. Such conduct naturally brings him to the attention of the courts, but only because he is the victim of his own limitations. It is not viciousness nor criminal tendencies that motivates his behavior.. The person with limited intelligence has the same desire as the normal person to live peaceably and agreeably with his family and neighbors, but the strain of competing in our modern industrial world is too much for his ten-year-old mind, and he acts with the' lack of judgment and forethought that a ten-year-old child would display under the same circumstances. The mentally deficient should not be considered as chronic and hopeless delinquents, when brought to court on charges of desertion, neglecting children, or even on charges of stealing, forgery, etc. A term in prison is as ineffective and unjust as the same prison sentence would be to a ten-year-old boy if he took his brother's or neighbor's bicycle. To punish persons for acts that seem reasonable to their intelligence is obviously futile and unfair. The "moran" at court or in financial difficulties is in need of protection?not punishment. He needs help in finding a mode of living not too complex for his limited powers. He needs help in developing such powers as he has to their highest level. Early: discovery of the person with limited intelligence is important. It is possible then to provide special training in trade or vocational schools, saving him the long, unhappy experience of repeated failure in formal school work, which robs him of his confidence and self-respect. He should be saved the demoralizing experience of school failure, and be given an opportunity to find 
 satisfaction in the accomplishment of something he has the ability to do. He will be much happier, and later economically useful, by learning to be a good artisan than by sitting and suffering through long years of academic work which always will be meaningless to him. Early training can save the "moran" from later social failure. He can be trained to usefulness as well as the normal person. He can be trained to be self-supporting, law-abiding, and self-respecting. Custodial care for the majority of this group is not necessary if intelligent training and guidance and supervision is given them outside an institution. Mavis has every opportunity to make a fair adjustment in her own home. Her parents have been told that it is not advisable for her to marry, as the probability is that her children, too, would be mentally handicapped. Because of the family's financial position, she will not need to enter the industrial world. It is possible, though, for her to be useful and find happiness in some activity, gardening, needlecraft or cooking. Had Mavis been the daughter of poor parents and had to face the responsibility of making her own living, the need of training for some useful occupation would have been more urgent. Just as Mavis must turn to some simple craft for expression, so must a person in less comfortable circumstances turn to a simple craft or trade, and by becoming proficient in it, find economic independence. While the majority of "morans" can be assisted to a fair social adjustment in community life, there will be a number who are additionally handicapped by anti-social tendencies who will need. Institutional care. Most states have recognized the responsibility of caring for the mentally deficient, who are exploited or are a menace to society, by providing institutions for them. Our own state has no facilities for their care, except a small building in connection with the State. Mental Hospital. The capacity there for the care of the feeble-minded is about one hundred, which is entirely inadequate. Reference?Challenge of Childhood, Dr. Ira S. Wile, pages 133-138. Questions and Problems 1. What are the three classifications of the '"feeble-minded?" 2. Why should the two lower groups have custodial care? 3. Why is it not advisable to place all ?morans" in institutions? 4. What special training should be given in the schools for persons like Mavis? 5. Are there any special classes or trade schools in your community? 6. What custodial care does the state provide? Is this adequate? What are the Food Habits of Utah Farm Families? P. V. Cardon Department of Farm Economy, Utah Agricultural Experiment Station With the origin of the food which three times daily graces your family dining table, you may or may not be deeply concerned. If you live in town, the chances are that you never give so much as a fleeting thought to the farms on which your food was produced, or to the persons concerned with its regular production and distribution. Town dwellers are concerned merely with the problem of getting the food from the market and paying for it. But if you live on a farm, this problem presents itself in a different shape, with many more angles to it, and with a more direct bearing on the welfare of your family. Whereas the town dweller may go into the markets and select foods from all parts of the country, being limited in choice only by her ability to pay the price asked for produce assembled from widely separated districts, the woman on the farm is limited to a much narrower range of choice. She may have to choose entirely from her own kitchen garden which, because of soil, climate or lack of ample irrigation water, may be limited as to variety, quality and quantity, despite the fact that she may have been able to get seeds and have the garden tract properly prepared. Under more favorable: circumstances, of course, she may have a wider choice of garden produce for family feeding. To her garden produce also, she may be able to add eggs, milk and some meat products, all of which may have been produced on the farm. Still the fact remains that, unless the farm does produce ample supplies of fresh eggs, clean milk and wholesome meat products, her choice, compared with that of her urban sister, is limited. Again, because of poor roads or inadequate means of transportation she may be unfavorably located as regards markets at which to purchase those foods which cannot be grown on the farm. And to this must be added the complicating factor of attitude on the part of the farm family toward the whole question of food: their information concerning foods essential to an adequate diet and their willingness to make the necessary effort to produce these essentials. Farmers in general are willing to expend a maximum effort 
 to grow a commercial crop, in the production of which most of the work can be accomplished by means of machinery and horses or tractors; but the vegetable garden, along with the family orchard, the family cow, the pigs and the chickens, must be attended usually by some other member of the family, perhaps the mother herself. If the father is not convinced that the kitchen garden, the fruit trees, the cow, the pig and the hen are essential to his family's welfare, the chances are good that these faithful contributors to the family income?these health insurance agency?will receive personal attention only if mother and the smaller children are inclined and can find time to care for them. As to what Utah farms do supply in the way of food for the families living on them, there is an abundant lack of dependable information, The U. S. Department of Agriculture, on the basis of a survey made in 1922, advises that the average Utah farm produces 64.6 per cent of the food consumed by the farm family, and that an additional 13.8 per cent is produced locally. But apparently there is no available information as to just what comprises this home-produced 64.6 per cent of the family diet, whether it contains sufficient variety, or whether the different varieties of food are produced in amounts to insure proper nutrition of the farm family, even when added to the 35.4 per cent of the diet not produced at home. To determine what foods and in what quantities the farms of Utah are contributing toward the health and general welfare of the families who operate these farms, is the object of a study now being make by the Utah Agricultural Experiment Station, under provisions of the Purnell Bill, recently enacted by Congress. No attempt is to be made to determine in this study what the farms might or could do in the way of supplying food for farm families; it will be confined to an effort to, ascertain exactly what Utah farms, under existing conditions, do contribute to farm family tables. The study will be made state-wide by selecting communities throughout the state that are representative of the various major conditions defined by differences in soil, water supplies, location as regards markets, and other factors affecting living conditions. In each such community, a group of representative families will be persuaded to keep yearly records of the foods used each day, which have been produced on their own farms. Already the matter of record keeping is well advanced in certain communities that have been selected, and groups of farm women in other communities are displaying an. Interest that probably will lead to early cooperation in the furtherance of this study, which is being directed by Mrs. Almeda Perry Brown. Any other groups who may be interested should communicate with Mrs. Brown at the Experiment Station, Logan, Utah.