Lessons for December]

Lessons for December
LESSON I
Theology and Testimony
(First Week in December)
THE TWELVE APOSTLES
1. Their Call and Ordination. In the selection of the Twelve, Jesus consulted his Father the entire night preceding the day on which the Twelve were chosen. "And it came to pass in those days, that he went out into a mountain to pray, and continued all night in prayer to God." Luke 6:12. There can be no doubt that this night of communion was spent, in part at least, in considering the choice of the Twelve. We have the Savior's declaration that the Twelve were of his own choosing. "And when it was day, he called unto him his disciples; and of them he chose twelve, whom also he named apostles." Luke 6:13. The Son presents a reverential acknowledgment of the Twelve as a gift from his Father. "And now I am no more in the world, but these are in the world, and I come to thee. Holy Father, keep through thine own name those whom thou hast given me that they may be one, as we are." John 17:11. The Twelve were chosen with a three-fold, immediate object; to be with the Savior as special witnesses of what he did; and to testify, by the power of the Holy Ghost, as to whom he was; to officially preach his gospel; and to rebuke evil. "And he ordained twelve, that they should be with him, and that he might send them forth to preach, And to have power to heal sickness, and to cast out devils." Mark 3:14, 15. "But when the Comforter is come, whom I will send unto you from the Father, even the Spirit of truth, which proceedeth from the Father, he shall testify of me: And ye also shall bear witness, because ye have been with me from the beginning." John 15:26-27.
2. The Twelve Were Objects of His Prayers. The Twelve were special objects of the prayers of Jesus; he prayed for them as individuals and as a group. At the last supper, the Master said: "Simon, Simon, behold, Satan hath desired to have you, that he may sift you as wheat: But I have prayed for thee, that thy faith fail not: and when thou art converted, strengthen thy brethren." Luke 22:31-32. "I pray for them: I pray not for the world, but for them which thou hast given me; for they are thine." John 17:9. "Father, I will that they also, whom thou hast given me, be with me where I am; that they may behold my glory, which thou hast
given me: for thou lovedst me before the foundation of the world." John 17:24. The Twelve were objects of his special care as well as of his prayers. "For I have given unto them the words which thou gavest me: and they have received them, and have known surely that I came out from thee, and they have believed that thou didst send me." John 17:8.
3. Members Protected against Personal Ambition. The members of the Twelve were protected against the possibility of preference based on personal ambition. "And James and John, the sons of Zebedee, come unto him, saying, Master, we would that thou shouldest do for us whatsoever we shall desire. "And he said unto them, What would ye that I should do for you? "They said unto him, Grant unto us that we may sit, one on thy right hand, and the other on thy left hand, in thy glory. "But Jesus said unto them, Ye know not what ye ask: can ye drink of the cup that I drink of? And be baptized with the baptism that I am baptized with? "And they said unto him, We can. And Jesus said unto them, Ye shall indeed drink of the cup that I drink of: and with the baptism that I am baptized withal shall ye be baptized: "But to sit on my right hand and on my left hand is not mine to give, but it shall be given to them for whom it is prepared. "And when the ten heard it, they began to be much displeased with James and John. "But Jesus called them to him and saith unto them, Ye know that they which are accounted to rule over the Gentiles exercise lordship over them; and their great ones exercise authority upon them. "But so shall it not be among you: but whosoever will be great among you, shall be your minister: "And whosoever of you will be the chiefest, shall be servant of all. "For even the Son of man came not to be ministered unto, but to minister, and to give his life a ransom for many." Mark 10:35-45.
4. The Twelve were Shown their Limitation as Men. In fulfilment of the Master's words, the weakness of Peter and the inability of the others were revealed. Not one of them could watch in that darkest of all hours when Christ was under the weight of the sins of the world, and enemies on his trail, not one of them could watch while he prayed. And during his trial he was thrice denied by the one who had most confidence in himself. "And when they had sung an hymn, they went out into the Mount of Olives. "And Jesus saith unto them, All ye shall be offended because

of me this night: for it is written, I will smite the Shepherd, and the sheep shall be scattered. "But after that I am risen, I will go before you into Galilee. "But Peter said unto him, Although all shall be offended, yet will not I. "And Jesus saith unto him, Verily I say unto thee, That this day, even in this night, before the cock crow twice, thou shalt deny me thrice. "But he spake the more vehemently, If I should die with thee, I will not deny thee in any wise. Likewise also said they all. "And they came to a place which was named Gethsemane; and he saith to his disciples, Sit ye here, while I shall pray. "And he taketh with him Peter and James and John, and began to be sore amazed, and to be very heavy; "And saith unto them, My soul is exceeding sorrowful unto death: tarry ye here, and watch. "And he went forward a little, and fell on the ground, and prayed that, if it were possible, the hour might pass from him. "And he said, Abba, Father, all things are possible unto thee; take away this cup from me; nevertheless not what I will, but what thou wilt. "And he cometh, and findeth them sleeping, and saith unto Peter, Simon, sleepest thou? Couldst not thou watch one hour? "Watch ye and pray, lest ye enter into temptation. The spirit truly is ready, but the flesh is weak. "And again he went away, and prayed, and spake the same words. "And when he returned, he found them asleep again, (for their eyes were heavy,) neither wist they what to answer him. "And he cometh the third time, and saith unto them, Sleep on now, and take your rest: it is enough, the hour is come; behold, the Son of man is betrayed into the hands of sinners. "Rise up, let us go; lo, he that betrayeth me is at hand."?Mark 14:26-42. "And they all forsook him, and fled. * * * * "And they led Jesus away to the high priest: and with him were assembled all the chief priests and the elders and the scribes. "And Peter followed him afar off, even into the palace of the high priest: and he sat with the servants, and warmed himself at the fire." Mark 14:50, 53-54. "And as Peter was beneath in the palace, there cometh one of the maids of the high priest: "And when she saw Peter warming himself, she looked upon him, and said, And thou also wast with Jesus of Nazareth. "But he denied, saying, I know not, neither understand I what thou sayest. And he went out into the porch; and the cock crew. "And a maid saw him again, and began to say to them that stood by, This is one of them.
"And he denied it again. And a little after, they that stood by said again to Peter, Surely thou art one of them: for thou art a Galilean, and thy speech agreeth thereto. "But he began to curse and to swear, saying, I know not this man of whom ye speak. "And the second time the cock crew. And Peter called to mind the word that Jesus said unto him, Before the cock crow twice, thou shalt deny me thrice. And when he thought thereon, he wept." Mark 14:66-72.
5. The Twelve Scattered by Vocational Interests. The Twelve were scattered by their vocational interests and were called back to the ministry by the resurrected Redeemer. "After these things Jesus shewed himself again to the disciples at the sea of Tiberias; and on this wise shewed he himself. "There were together Simon Peter, and Thomas called Didymus, and Nathanael of Cana in Galilee, and the sons of Zebedee, and two other of his disciples. "Simon Peter saith unto them, I go a fishing. They said unto him, We also go with thee. They went forth, and entered into a ship immediately; and that night they caught nothing. "But when the morning was now come, Jesus stood on the shore: but the disciples knew not that it was Jesus. "Then Jesus saith unto them, Children, have ye any meat? They answered him, No. "And he said unto them, Cast the net on the right side of the ship, and ye shall find. They cast therefore, and now they were not able to draw it for the multitude of fishes." John 21:1-6. "So when they had dined, Jesus saith to Simon Peter, Simon, son of Jonas, lovest thou me more than these? He saith unto him, Yea, Lord: thou knowest that I love thee. He saith unto him, Feed my lambs. * * * * "He saith to him the third time, Simon, son of Jonas, lovest thou me? Peter was grieved because he said unto him the third time, Lovest thou me? And he said unto him, Lord, thou knowest all things; thou knowest that I love thee. Jesus saith unto him, Feed my sheep." John 21:15, 17.
6. Council of Twelve Made Complete. The Council of the Twelve was completed by the ordination of Matthias and the work was carried on in the name of Jesus Christ, by these witnesses of the resurrection. Peter, the chief apostle, says: "Wherefore of these men which have companioned with us all the time that the Lord Jesus went in and out among us, "Beginning from the baptism of John, unto that same day that he was taken up from us, must one be ordained to be a witness with us of his resurrection." Acts 1:21-22.
7. The Personnel of the Twelve. In the personnel of the Twelve there was a striking variety:

There was the stern impetuous Peter; the vehement, aspiring James and John; the highly spiritual Andrew; the practical Phillip; the guileless Bartholomew (Nathanael); the liberal-minded Matthew; the skeptical Thomas; the dependable James; the slow-thinking Judas; the zealous Simon Zelotes; and the untrustworthy Judas Iscariot. At least seven of them were fishermen. The eleven who were saved were Galileans. The last one was a Judean. All were from the ranks of the common people. For an interesting and illuminating treatment of the Twelve, as individuals, the student is referred to Jesus the Christ, by Talmage, pages 218-226.
Questions and Problems
1. What are the evidences that the Twelve were the joint choice of the Father and the Son?
2. Give scriptural proof that the Twelve were chosen, ordained, and named apostles by Jesus. (Mark 3:14, Luke 6:13.)
3. When and where were the Twelve ordained? (Mark 3:13, 14; Luke 6:13.)
4. What lesson in family life and in Church leadership may be drawn from the fact that Jesus prayed for the Twelve individually and collectively?
5. Name the three major purposes of choosing the Twelve.
6. What great obligation of parenthood and Church leadership is pointed to by the words of Jesus recorded in John 17:8 and 12?
7. How was Peter three times reminded that he was loving something more than his mission? (John 21:2, 3, 15, 16, 17.)
8. Give scriptural evidence that the Twelve are to be with the Savior in heaven. (John 14:2, 3.)
9. What is the most valuable thought suggested by this lesson?