[Vol52 | February 1965 | Page 106 | Fiction | Valentine's Day Helen | H. Trutton]
[Valentine's Day Helen H. Trutton]
[ILLUSTRATION: Woman at desk writing]
[ILLUSTRATION: Heart symbol with torch]
[ILLUSTRATION: Drawing of a young girl in a checkered dress holding what appears to be a valentine or cookie]

Notes to the Field

[ILLUSTRATION: Woman at desk writing]

Copies of the 1964 index for The Relief Society Magazine are available and may be ordered from the General Board of Relief Society, 76 North Main Street, Salt Lake City, Utah 84111. The price is twenty cents, including postage. Relief Society officers and members who wish to have their 1964 issues of The Relief Society Magazine bound may do so through The Deseret News Press, 33 Richards Street, Salt Lake City, Utah 84101. (See advertisement on page 156.) The Deseret News Press includes a copy of the index at no extra charge for each set of Magazines bound.

HEART FUND DOLLARS
— A HOPE FOR BETTER LIFE
The American Heart Association

[ILLUSTRATION: Heart symbol with torch]

World-wide efforts are being made to conquer the Number One Cause of Death, Heart and Circulatory Diseases. In many countries, associations and scientific groups operate on a voluntary basis to carry out programs of research, professional and public education, and community service for the millions of people afflicted by heart disease.

Thanks to the generosity of people in all walks of life, educational materials for free distribution to the public are prepared by the American Heart Association and its affiliates in every state of the United States.

There is great hope for prevention and treatment of heart diseases through research and education. Wives and mothers are made aware of the problems created by rheumatic fever and inborn heart defects among children; how heart attacks and strokes may afflict the breadwinners of their families; and how the other cardiovascular diseases also create critical health and economic problems in countless homes.

"For Advice About Your Heart, Ask Your Doctor; For Information, Ask Your Heart Association." This is the theme wherever there is a Heart Association.

Literature available on request covers almost all heart and circulatory diseases: heart attack, stroke, rheumatic fever, high blood pressure, diet and heart disease, smoking and heart disease, congenital heart defects, heart murmurs, varicose veins, and many others.

Millions of people support the heart fund by giving both time and money for its life-saving programs.

Heart Fund dollars give hope for life.

105

Valentine's Day

Helen H. Trutton

[ILLUSTRATION: Drawing of a young girl in a checkered dress holding what appears to be a valentine or cookie]

"OH, Mommy, Mommy, Mommy," Lavina called excitedly at the sight of the first valentine cookie she carefully cut from the rolled-out dough. "Look at it. Isn't it real pretty?"

"What's so great about that?" Joe ambled nonchalantly into the kitchen and peered over Lavina's shoulder. "You'd think she had created some great invention or something — maybe an earthshaking event."

Lydia took the cutter from Lavina's hand. "It's a lovely valentine, darling," she said, before turning to Joe. "I can remember when you were Lavina's age, you had fun making cookies. You got just as excited, too."

"So there," Lavina said hovering over the cookie board. "Could I — I mean would you write on it, 'I love Daddy,' and one 'I love Mommy'?"

"That would be sweet, but I don't know if there is enough room."

"If you write small, maybe. . . ."

Lydia took the knife from the rack and carved out the words "I love Daddy," while Lavina cut another valentine. "Let's see," she said, leaning into the board. "I think these little red bead decorations poked in the message will keep the dough from cooking together where I wrote, and Daddy could read it."

"Oh!" Lavina's eyes danced with joy. "It makes my valentine even nicer." She handed another cut-out cookie to her. "Put 'I love Mommy' on this one, please," she said.

Lydia smiled down at her youngest child. "Thank you, dear. And I love you, too."

"My valentine is in the backyard," ten-year-old Susan said, coming into the room. "Look Mother. I made mine in the snow."

Lydia walked to the window, pulled back the freshly starched

106

VALENTINE'S DAY

curtains, and read aloud. "Be my valentine. I love you all."

"Now that's a novel valentine, and very very lovely," she said, slipping her arm around Susan. "Thank you, darling."

"Don't any of you dare ruin it," Susan said, "until Daddy sees it. He was too busy when he came home at noon; I didn't get a chance to show it to him."

LYDIA frowned. John had been so preoccupied with business lately; he was about to close a big real estate deal — she could understand his deep concern to a degree, but today was more than Valentine's Day, it was their seventeenth wedding anniversary, as well. And he'd never forgotten before. She moved to the living room, and stood a moment before the mirror. She certainly didn't look much like anyone's valentine with her hair up in curlers. Those slowly creeping pounds she had been adding didn't exactly enhance her appearance either. Seventeen years could make a lot of changes in a person. John had been so proud of her when they were first married — he was so pleased that she wore a size twelve dress, and now....

"Mommy, Mommy," Lavina's excited voice reached her. "I'm waiting for you to write 'I love Mommy.'"

"Coming," she called back. She took one last look in the mirror, then hurried to the kitchen, picked up the knife again, and wrote "I love Mommy," at Lavina's direction.

"And here's one to write — 'I love Joe,' " the child said, shoving another cut-out toward her.

"Oh, never mind," Joe answered shyly. "Why so much fuss? Valentine's is just another day."

Lydia glanced at him. He was at the age to be embarrassed with sentiment, but from the pleased look on his face, she knew he was flattered in his young sister's thoughtfulness, too.

"And one for Susan and Mary, too," Lavina said eagerly. "Then that's all our family. Course there's Fluff, our cat, and Mopsy the dog."

"Well I don't think we have to include them in your valentines," Lydia laughed. "I'm quite sure they won't mind." She put the last cookie on the sheet and popped the pan into the oven just as she heard her next door neighbor call out from the front door, "Anybody home?"

LYDIA turned quickly toward the door. "Come in, Freda," she said. "On your way to work, I suppose?"

"Yes. Anything new around here?"

"No," Lydia answered, "except we're making cookies. Sit down, Freda. I expect you're busy at the shop today — everyone buying new dresses for the ball tonight."

"Busy enough," Freda replied. "I can't stay. I just stopped by to see if there was anything new."

"Not a thing," Lydia said. "You and John are coming to the Sweetheart Ball tonight aren't you?"

"I hope so, though John has been so busy lately. I doubt if he even remembers what day this is."

107

FEBRUARY 1965

"It's your anniversary for one thing, isn't it?"

Lydia walked over to the window before speaking. "Yes, it is. But as I said, John's very busy."

"Surely he won't be that busy — this being your anniversary and all," Freda commented. "I'll see you later. I really must run along."

Lydia followed her to the door and watched her hurry down the street. Even Freda remembered it was their wedding anniversary. If John would only take a second to say, "Happy Anniversary," that would be enough. Then she would know that he hadn't forgotten.

"Mommy, I peeked in the oven and the valentines must be cooked," Lavina called out.

"Oh, dear, I almost forgot them," she said, hurrying to the kitchen and opening the oven. "Lucky you remembered them, Lavina."

"I'll take them off the sheet, Mother, if you'll finish my valentine dress for the party," Susan said. "It's almost time for me to go."

"A good idea," Lydia agreed. "It's only a small job finishing it."

She went into the bedroom, picked up Susan's dress, and sat down at the sewing machine. It wasn't like John not to mention their anniversary. And he always wrote his own charming little valentine message. He was a poet—oh, not like Longfellow, Burns, or certainly not a Browning, but the thought was genuine and especially precious to her. She switched on the machine and quickly stitched in the hem, then

pulled out the basting threads, and returned to the kitchen with the dress. "I'll press it," she said, "and then you may try it on."

"Thank you, Mother." Susan gave her a big hug. "It's absolutely dreamy."

Lydia took the ironing board from the closet and laid the dress over it. "The color is just right for you. You'll look mighty sweet in it," she said. "Mighty sweet."

"I love it," Susan said, dancing around the room. "I'd better hurry or I'll be late for the party."

"I am hurrying, dear," she said. "Now remember, you are to be home by five. We don't want to keep Daddy waiting. I'm sure he has had a big day."

She took the dress from the board and watched Susan as she skipped happily down the hall, holding the dress in her hands. Everyone was excited about the day except John. Maybe she was being petty — John was a wonderful husband. Supposing he had forgotten.... She was placing too much importance on the matter.

SHE was still standing near the ironing board when Susan dashed out of her room, dressed in her new dress, struggling with her coat. "I'll be home early, Mother. Goodbye. Oh, Lavina is taking a nap in our room. I covered her up well."

"Thanks, dear. Have fun."

With Susan gone, she was alone except for Lavina. Joe had gone down the street to help a friend make a snowman, and

108
