Why are the little birds so glad today, Filling the air with music sweet and clear? Can they be telling us that it is May, And Mother's Day, dear heart?and you not here?
Why do the roses bloom so rich and bright, Wafting their fragrant incense far and near? Why does the sunshine fall so warm and light, Upon this day of days?and you not here?
Why is the sky so blue, the earth so fair, As to your grave I come, with flowers and tears? Dear heart, is it because you're happier there, Where May Eternal glorifies the years?
Mother-Heart
By Nelle Allen Talmage
There was once a child who lived in a castle-like house with tall narrow windows. Here he lived very much by himself. He had food, shelter and raiment, yet he always felt hungry and thirsty and cold. The days were long and dreary, although in a child's life they should flit by like pretty butterflies in a field of clover. It was because She had gone! The yard below was inviting; but when the child reached it, he was lonelier than before. You see She had gone away!
And so, day after day, he mourned; but when the cool darkness drifted into his room and the friendly moon came to keep him company, he dreamed the dream that brought her back to him. Often in early summer he had walked with her in the garden;?the garden, bordered with fragrant alyssum, bedded with tulips and hyacinths,?filled with the homey, little, shrinking violets and sweet-faced pansies. Upon latticed fences, honeysuckle climbed, making the air fragrant with its perfume. The flowers were dear familiar, modest ones, but the loveliest of all was the clump of Madonna lilies, their tall, green stalks crowned with dazzling white blossoms?as tall and pure and fair as She had been. Often the child touched them, and worshipped the beauty and sweetness of the blossoms. He seemed to nestle on her breast!
There were trees in the garden, large, spreading elm trees, and a grove of tall, young aspens. The birds in the trees twittered and sang, and seemed to be telling him of the happy days he had spent with her. All this came back to him in his dream at nightfall.
Then there was He?big, strong, busy man. He left so early in the morning for some mysterious place in the city. The child had been there once on the cars, and had been frightened by the clacking of automobile sirens, shrill whistles, and the noise of the trains overhead. He did not like it, and his dreams of the garden and Her were much more lovely than his thought of the great man in the big city. Yet he loved this man, his father. He came home early in the evening before She had gone and romped with him. Sometimes he came with her to tuck him in; She was always there. But now he stayed later in the big city, and seldom did the child see him.
But one evening, just after the child had gone to bed, he came into the room just as he used to do. He had lost the sad look in his eyes and the child knew that some great news was to be told him. Expectantly he held out his arms to his daddy.
"My little son!" he said as he folded the boy to him. "My
MOTHER HEART 257
little son! Your eyes are the same heavenly blue,?your hair?Her glint of sunlight." The child nestled closer.
"Do you miss her, child?"
"More every day, Daddy. I see Her smile on the pansy face; I see Her eyes in the violets; I hear Her voice in the song of the birds; I smell Her fragrance among the mignonettes. I see Her in the Madonna lilies. I love the garden because it tells of Her."
The man crushed the boy to him; then letting him loose said, "She was an angel, son,?and God needed her to help Him. We'll always know that and remember Her that way. But the great and all-wise Father does not want us to mourn and be unhappy. He has sent another angel to care for us and love us. Some day soon I'm going to bring her here to be a mother to you. There are mothers who bear and mothers who rear, and blessed is the woman who takes some one else's child to her heart. Great is her love and exalted shall she be!" And the father bowed his head. The child could not remember hearing his father talk this way before.
"Is it all right, son?"
"It is all right, father."
That was all?but, in the darkness, strange fears came on him. He had heard stories of cruel stepmothers?and a stepmother was what she would be. Would she walk in the garden under the spreading elms?among the strong, young aspens? And the violets, the pansies, and the honeysuckle?would they greet her? The Madonna lilies?no! She might enjoy all the rest of the garden, but the little heaven among the lilies was for Her who had gone away!
And he fell asleep.
The next morning he wakened early and wondered, "Today, will she come?" But the day passed and the next and the next. Weeks passed, and then one day the house was in a bustle. Flowers in all the vases; curtains, shining white, hanging stiffly from the poles; sounds of baking and smells of cooking. Today was the day for He had come into the child's room and kissed him to wakefulness, and whispered, "Today she comes, son," and then had gone out.
The child was dressed in his little linen suit and told to keep clean and not to play rough. They need not have said that, for the child had ponderous thinking to do, and he climbed into the big chair. There he remained.
Then it seemed as if She who had gone, stood by him and smiled. How like a lovely Madonna lily she looked! Yes, this other she who was coming might have anything in the garden but the lily. That was sacred to Mother!
The horn of the car! The housekeeper and the maid and even the cook came strangely quiet into the hall.
 
The child uncurled himself from the chair and stood in the doorway. He should see her before she saw him and then he could tell.
His father's happy laugh! A low sweet voice as she greeted the servants! The child stood motionless looking up into her face. She was coming toward him?a flush on the cheek?a smile in her eyes. She stopped and opened her arms!