"On the day I was married I met a missionary who was also going to be married. We became life-long friends, and instead of returning myself to see my mother, I saw this couple going on a pleasure trip to Germany. I had sent a letter telling mama when they would start and on which steamer they would go; I also told her that they were tall, thin, dark people like the majority of Americans. My mother has a little flower store; there she sells the most beautiful roses, which she gets from Italy the whole year round. When this couple opened her door, she knew them for she named them by their names! And with tears in her eyes my dear mother welcomed them as she would have done her own daughter. I never shall forget the day when this couple came back. It was in the evening and I had just put my little children to bed. While the travelers were telling me of their wonderful trip, it seemed as if I was living my childhood days all over again; and now I am going to tell you something, my brethren and sisters. I sat there listening; and the tears?no, they were not tears, it was water that was streaming down my face, for the longing to see my mother was so great.
"All hopes have been given up of ever returning to see her, but the Lord works in a mysterious way his wonders to perform, for the visit which I should have made years ago, I am in hopes
ORDINARY MOTHERS 267
will be made by my son when he is called on his mission to my homeland, and our daily prayers are that the dear mother, who tearfully waved goodbye to her only daughter, may be kept well and strong to shower her mother-love upon her grandson."
The two remaining mothers related incidents in the experience of rearing their children, in which they had been led and assisted by faith in an overruling Providence, in directing them in the path, which, so hard to climb at the time, had later proved to be the successful one.
At the close of the meeting, young people and old felt that they had been banqueted at a spiritual feast.
Mary Ann Davies
HEMSLEY AND SEVEN DAUGHTERS
When less than sixteen years of age, Mary Ann Davies heard the "Mormon" elders in South Wales. She was later baptized and confirmed a member of the Church. Soon after her baptism she worked in ice water up to her elbows to earn money to come to Zion. While working in the home of Orson Pratt's son to earn money to help her parents, her brothers and sisters, to come to Utah, she met Richard Hemsley. Later they were married in the Logan Temple. She is the mother of fourteen children, ten girls and four boys. She knows what some of the hardships are in clearing sagebrush land and developing a new country. Besides helping to educate and rear her family in the path of righteousness, she has helped to support her husband and four sons in the mission field. The picture shows Mrs. Hemsley and her seven daughters now living.