Notes From The Field
Norwegian Mission. The following interesting message comes from sisters in the northern land: "Of course the work here is difficult at times, because everything must be translated; nevertheless we are doing our best to follow the outlines and instructions sent to us from the General Board. These helps have been greatly appreciated by the organizations and the northern sisters are most willing at all times to adopt the suggestions made in the ?a fact that has encouraged very much the missionaries." Last Spring
OFFICERS OF NORWEGIAN RELIEF SOCIETY
one of the branches put on the little play, "Past Echoes and Present Pep." While there were many difficulties, the production as a whole was greatly enjoyed, and was followed by the request that it be put on again.
Norway missionaries are so few that it is seldom any pictures from Norway are printed in Church magazines. The following is an exception: There are now thirteen missionaries for the whole of Norway, three of whom have been there over two years. In order to maintain the work, unusual efforts have to be made; and more missionaries who have had experience in the organizations at home are needed. These sisters urge that those who are going to Norway to take charge should have as thorough an understanding as possible of Relief Society and Genealogical work. In this field there are wonderful opportunities for advancement. The
NOTES FROM THE FIELD 281
people are interested in the Gospel, and attend the meetings regularly. In the Oslo branch there are between fifty and sixty strangers who attend the Sunday meetings, and about forty who come frequently to the Relief Society meetings. Certainly Norway is a promising field for activity.
Danish Mission. "On our Annual Day, March 17, 1929, we had the first Relief Society conference ever held in the Danish mission. During the past three years we have held socials in the evening, with appropriate programs and refreshments in honor of the anniversary event; but this year a conference, with afternoon and evening sessions, was held in all the organized branches. A uniform program was carried out, many strangers present expressing surprise at what they had seen and heard. Members furnished all numbers on the program, developing their subjects far beyond the expectations of the missionaries.
The mission motto for the year is 'Peace in Our Homes, Relief Society, and Branches.' This motto was adopted at our mission presidents' conference in Paris last September, and makes peace in all its phases our main subject. The first organization at home and here in the mission, the purposes and aims of the association, social problems and how the sisters can best help deliver the gospel message to the world?these were among the subjects treated.
"The Danish sisters were elated with the success of the organizations, not only in Denmark but throughout the Scandinavian mission. The reports given show clearly that the Relief Society is performing a notable work. Owing to local conditions, methods here are different from those in Zion. Relief Society meetings are held each Friday evening. The sisters conduct the meetings, but many strangers, especially men, are usually present. In conformity with the spirit of the country and with its well developed program of education, Gospel subjects are taught and reading is conducted before large classes, the great majority of the group taking part. The program gives little opportunity for social and literary work; but is balanced with musical numbers and readings. Twice monthly, sewing meetings are held, where subjects pertaining to health and morality, the observance of the Ten Commandments, the Word of Wisdom, and matters pertaining especially to Relief Society work are discussed. On the second Monday of each month a report meeting is held. To conduct the meetings more nearly in accordance with the plan outlined for those at home would be difficult because new members are continually coming in, requiring instruction from the beginning."
German-Austrian Mission. From this mission field comes a most inspiring program of activity. During the past year the records of all Relief Society
 
organizations have been put on a uniform basis. The aim of each organization is to have a history of the Relief Society from the beginning, and copied in the new roll and minute book. Interest is wide awake and enthusiasm manifest.
This year's course of study consists of: first week, Book of Mormon, readings and testimonies; second week, work and business; third week, nutrition; fourth week, literature.
"In searching for the best and latest material for the lessons on nutrition," writes Sister Valentine, "I have met a number of prominent doctors who are writing on this subject. Among them is Dr. M. Vogel, Director of Nutrition in the Hygiene Museum at Dresden. In conversation with him I told him about the Word of Wisdom, which was given to our Church in 1833. He became interested and asked for an article about it. An article was prepared and sent to him. In December we received a copy of Hygienischer Wegweiser, quite a select monthly magazine published by three noted doctors as literature for the museum. This number contains our article. We made leaflets of the article, one of which I am enclosing. Dr. Vogel has asked for the information concerning the fruits of teaching the Word of Wisdom; we are glad, of course, to prepare it for him. In connection with our nutrition lessons, we are using a booklet written by him.
The work of the visiting teachers will be emphasized here in the coming year, keeping in mind the message that Sister Widtsoe gave each Relief Society, that of maintaining peace in the home, the Relief Society, and the branch. To assist the visiting teachers a teachers' visiting book was printed during December."
BROKEN TOYS
By Mary C. Martineau
They lay before me, on the floor, Their precious broken little toys, And consternation looks at me From saddened eyes?my little boys.
We gather up and try to think That maybe they can mended be, Though some, I know, e'en at a glance, Have done their last to furnish glee.
And as my little fellows sleep, My mind counts up my joys of yore That mended are; but some too late Were loved, and never come the more.
Relief Society Annual Report 1928
Julia A. F. Lund, General Secretary
FINANCIAL ACCOUNT 1928
CASH RECEIPTS
Total Balance on Hand and Receipts..................$474,611.89
CASH DISBURSEMENTS
Paid for Charitable Purposes...$100,836.76 Paid for General Purposes..... 136,206.72 Wheat Trust Fund Remitted to Presiding Bishop's Office... 3,194.63 Annual Dues Paid to General Board and to Stake Boards. 25,835.85 Paid for Other Purposes...... 32,328.48
Total Disbursements......$298,402.44
COMPARATIVE FIGURES FROM RELIEF SOCIETY REPORTS
DISTRIBUTION OF MEMBERSHIP OF RELIEF SOCIETY
Total Membership in Stakes........................ 51,025 Total Membership in Missions.. 11,525
Total Membership in Stakes and Missions.................... 62,550
(NOTE: In the foregoing report all funds are held and disbursed in the various wards, with the exception of the annual membership dues.)
Mausoleums
AN OLD IDEA MADE NEW
Man is a tomb-building creature, because in him alone is the soul which has in it the insistent conviction of immortality. And this conviction expresses itself not only in his religion, but artistically and objectively in the construction of tombs. The earliest records we have of the various peoples and civilizations that have disappeared in ages gone by are found in the tombs of their great. The idea is as old as civilization. The pyramids of Egypt, the Mausoleum of Halicarnassus built by Queen Artemesia in 353 B. C., the Taj Mahal at Agra?the most beautiful building in the world?are all expressions of this same idea. In our modern time the Pantheon at Paris, and Westminster Abbey, are notable examples. The story of the lives of the Pharaohs was brought vividly home to us by the discovery of their marvelously preserved bodies in their royal tombs.
In olden times and in Europe, this beautiful type of burial has been reserved for the rich and the great. It remained for American engineering enterprise to bring it within the reach of the masses. Now Salt Lake is to have a Memorial Mausoleum?a beautiful home for those we love?a community tomb wherein the body of a loved one is laid away in its own private vault, or crypt?in its entirety, as in life?to come forth in the first resurrection, after perhaps centuries of perfect preservation?even as kings of Egypt are being found, just as they were buried four thousand years ago. How beautiful! Could any one do more for the one he loves? Hardly!
Combined in this mausoleum will be a majestic dignity, an original beauty, a permanence and a temple-like structure, which will be unsurpassed?a fitting home for those who have lived well here?impressive?a cathedral of pure beauty, of noble solemnity, of restful dignity?yet, with no air of offensive pride. It is rich, even in its suggestion, yet involving no extravagant expense. It is in keeping with the desires and needs of this community and with the wishes of those who sooner or later will rest there. For those in life who have been accustomed to the best, only the best is appropriate at life's close?the Memorial Mausoleum.