Ma's New Year's Resolutions. By Elsie C. Carroll. It was New Year's Eve, as the front door closed after the "young folks" were off to the dance, Ma turned wearily to her own unattractive room. Pa had gone to a Board meeting and the younger boys, Jimmy and Fred, were at a barn party, while ten-year-old Maudie, the baby, had gone to sleep with Nellie Burke across the street. Ma suddenly realized that she was alone in the house, and its stillness seemed strange to her. She could scarcely remember ever having been alone since Mary Louise was born, twenty-four years ago. It struck her queerly, all at once, that she would really enjoy being alone once in a while,only tonight she was too tired to enjoy anything. The week of holidays just ending had been unusually hard for her. Perhaps it was because the children were all getting older and demanded more in the way of amusement. Before Christmas there had been the hurry and worry of getting the girls new dresses all done in time for the first party. There had been four to make this year, Maudie having insisted that she needed her 's just as much as the older girls did. Then there had been the Christmas dinner. Pa had invited a couple of men from the experiment farm over at G., and Frank had brought a college chum home from P., and Nettie's gentleman friend came down from Salt Lake, and, of course, there were Mary Louise and Ben and their babies. After that there had been house parties and skating parties and sleigh-riding picnic parties, until Ma felt like she had been baking cake and spreading sandwiches and stuffing chickens for an age. Today had been the most crowded day of all. There had been the Relief Society Charity Bazaar, in the morning to help arrange, the New Year's dinner to plan and partially prepare, and it had been her turn to see after sick old Granny Walker. Then, the new little Mrs. Gurdy, who had just moved to town and lived down the block, had sent for her to come and see if she thought her baby was going to cut a tooth. The girls had been extra "fussy" about their dresses. Nettie's sash had to be pressed the last minute before the party, and Mabel's hair wouldn't go right, and Lizzie discovered an ugly snag in her petticoat that had to be mended. Frank couldn't find his collar buttons, and Pa had lost a report he had to take to the Board meeting. But they were all gone now and she could go to bed and rest, if she couldn't sleep until they were all safely tucked in.
Ma switched on the light and turned to the old-fashioned bureau to undo her hair. Perhaps it was the unusualness of being alone, or it may have been Ma's utter weariness, or again it may have been the hovering spirit of the New Year pulsing with the breath of woman's rights, that turned Ma's thoughts into such an unfrequented channel. At any rate, no matter what the cause, Ma, for the first time in a quarter of a century, began thinking of herself. Curiously she studied the image looking back at her from the mirror. Why, it was an old care-worn woman, with weary eyes and lined features, dull, grey hair and drooping shoulders. It was her image and she — why, she was not yet forty-five years old. Ma stared and stared, and that peculiar kink, which had somehow got into her brain and directed her attention selfward, sent a million new thoughts speeding through her mind. In panoramic procession she saw the days and months and years she had toiled and sacrificed for others. It had been always for others her husband, her children, her neighbors. ; It had always been their health and comfort and pleasure she had considered, never her own. Why, she was a slave in deepest bondage! A great wave of self-pity surged over Ma and crimsoned her sallow cheeks. She had given her all, and what had she received in return? Her daughters' rooms were cosy and inviting hers was furnished with discarded pieces from the rest of the house. Her daughters wore dainty gowns, and their finger nails were pink and shiny, and their skin was soft and smooth and smelled of delicate cream, and their hair was thick and glossy. They had time to read magazines and to entertain their friends. A fierce envy of her own daughters took possession of Ma. She longed almost savagely for the things they possessed and she did not have. Why should she be a drudge, a slave for the rest of the family? At that moment the spirit of the New Order of Things hovered a little nearer and breathed rebellion into Ma's soul. At ten o'clock Jimmy and Fred returned from the barn party and were surprised at not finding Ma up waiting for them. Thinking she must have gone to Mary Louise's to see how the baby's ear-ache was, they went up stairs to bed. At eleven o'clock Pa returned from the Board meeting. He was a little put out at not finding Ma and his bowl of steaming milk waiting for him. "Must have been called in by some of the neighbors," Pa muttered a bit ill-humoredly, as he prepared for bed. At twelve o'clock the girls and Frank stole in and lunched cautiously in the pantry, congratulating themselves on their unusual success in not waking Ma. The next morning Pa awoke with a start. Why, it was broad daylight and he had not heard Ma get up. Then he remembered that he had not heard her come to bed either. Some of the neighbors must be pretty sick to keep her all night. Or maybe she was in the kitchen now getting breakfast. He usually heard her when she was starting the fire, if he didn't wake when she got up. He would go in and find out who was sick. But the kitchen was still and cold. Pa crossed to the range a little out of sorts to think that Ma would neglect her own family for the neighbors. He stopped still and stared. There on the teakettle was a letter — addressed to him in Ma's handwriting. Pa had scarcely seen that handwriting in twenty-five years, and a dull premonition crept over him. He tore open the envelope and took out a closely written sheet which he carried to the window the better to make it out. What could it mean? Where in the world could Ma be? Why had she written him a letter? Pa's features twitched with varying emotions as he read: "Dear John and Children: I've gone to the city to spend New Year's. I had a trip since I can remember; I ain't been to Salt ain't Lake City since I was married. Cousin Jane's invited me nearly every year, too, so I decided to go. I didn't have any money of my own, so I took fifteen dollars out of your safety box, John. I figured that I'd help to earn it if anybody had. I didn't have any decent clothes I ain't had, for years and years — so I took your grey silk, Nettie, and your brown suit and hat, Lizzie, and some gloves and a veil of yours, Mabel. I took your new suit case, Frank, and Jimmie's thermo bottle and Fred's last magazine. Maudie, I borrowed your mesh bag and a couple of handkerchiefs. "Maybe you'll all think I've lost my senses, but I ain't; I've just found them, and I made a New Year's resolution that I'd use them, after this. "Lots of love, and a happy New Year to you all, from Ma." Pa read the letter over for the third time before he was able to sense in the least what it all meant. Ma — gone to the city? why, what in the world! — did she want to —and taken money from the safety box —Why — he'd! ! have to miss the farmer's convention next week, may be— Why, Ma — do a thing to that like What — what — could mean! He it? read the letter again, and his own heart began to tell him what it meant. With trembling fingers, at last, he laid the sheet on the kitchen table and stood staring vacantly out of the window through a sort of mist. Before him flashed a panorama similar to the one Ma had seen the night before, and for the first time in his life, Pa, who had always considered himself a model husband, father and citizen, told himself he was a blind brute. The cords in his throat tightened and the mist before his eyes grew more dense. No wonder she had revolted! The only wonder was that she had stood it so long. At last he turned from the window and mechanically kindled the fire. How cold and empty the house seemed! And Ma what if something should happen to her and she should never come home He whisked out his handkerchief and blew his nose! (a man's method of trying to conceal emotion), as he resolved to catch the first train to the city to find her. He went to the foot of the stairs and called, "Nettie, Lizzie, — — — — Mabel, Frank, all of you come down, quick!" It was always Ma's voice that roused the sleepers in the morning, so that this unusual summons from Pa, together with a peculiar huskiness in his voice, brought a chorus of "What is it, Pa? What's the matter? Where's Ma?" and soon the whole family were gathered in the kitchen reading Ma's New Year's resolution with varying expressions of surprise and dismay. Be it said to their credit that not one member of that selfish family showed the least resentment. They had been blind, and now their eyes were suddenly opened, and they beheld Ma as a sacrificing angel and themselves as unworthy ingrates. They were all united in one thought How to make amends? : As they sat over a hurried breakfast of scorched toast, unsalted cereal, and leathery omelet, —the effort of untrained hands, —they discussed the situation freely. "I don't blame her a bit," declared Nettie. "The only wonder is that she hasn't done it long ago." — — "But but will she e-v-e-r come back?" — whimpered Maudie. "Of course, she'll come back. Pa's going after 'er," consoled Jim. "The question is, can we make it up to her for all our selfishness when she does come back, so she'll want to stay," put in Frank. "Well, we'll all be found —trying," assured Lizzie, with a catch in her voice. "It just makes me sick to think what we've been doing and didn't have sense enough to know it," added Mabel. "Well, she's going to have the best in this house from now on, have my way," Nettie resolved. "I've just been in her if I room. No wonder she ran away. There isn't one pretty thing in it —just old cast-offs. If we girls don't transform it before night, I'm mistaken." "And we're going to take turns getting up in the mornings and getting breakfast and take all the responsibility and worry of the house work off from her shoulders," put in Lizzie. "And we're going to chop all the wood and do all our chores without her nagging a bit, ain't we, Jim?" promised Fred. "And I'm not going to have all the kids in town come here every day and tease to have little dinners and dress up and things," agreed Maudie. "And I'm going to take her to all the good lectures and concerts and — baseball games," vowed Frank. "And I'm going to see that she has a bank account of her own and dresses and hats and things so she won't have to borrow next time she goes to the city," said Pa, who had sat an interested listener to all the New Year's resolutions being resolved. "And I'm going to see that the next time isn't twenty-five years from now either." He pushed back his chair and arose from the table. It was almost time for the train. "I hope, children, we'll all remember these New Year's resolutions we've just made," he added, as he put on his coat and hat. And what of Ma? She had boarded the evening train bravely enough, but within an hour her feelings were changed considerably. Slowly the realization came to her that all she had suffered had been through no one's fault but her own. Her family's blind selfishness had been fostered through her own training. She had assumed all the hardships and drudgery, when it had been her duty, for her own good, and the good of the other members of the family, to see that each member shared a part. They were simply as her training or lack of training had made them, and now she was inflicting upon them a punishment she herself deserved. What — would they think of her anyhow John and her children? Her lips began to quiver as she turned to the window and realized how fast she was being borne. away from them. She longed to fly back to tear that foolish letter into shreds; before anyone found it. She wanted to go up the old stairs and pass with noiseless step from room to room, tucking the covers about each dear sleeping form, and breathing a soft prayer above each head, as she had done through all the years then she; wanted to go back down and creep into her own warm bed beside John. Her John, who had given her such a good home, and who had always been such a kind father to their children, and who was such an indispensable member of the community. What would he think? Oh, what had possessed her to do so wild a thing? If only there were a way to get back, but she was miles away, and there was no returning train until the next morning. At last the engine puffed into Salt Lake City. Ma got off with the crowd. She felt dazed, and more wretched than ever. This was not the place she had visited so often in her girlhood? She had no idea which way to go to find Cousin Jane's. Besides, now she wouldn't have Cousin Jane know what she had done, for worlds. She stood for a few moments in the pushing crowd, sensing the keenest pangs of homesickness. Presently she noticed a hotel across the street. She would go there and get a room and take the early train back home. Most of the night Ma lay miserably awake, making New Year's resolutions, vastly different to the one which had brought her to the city. The next morning she hurried across to the station to wait for her train. She sat watching the hands of the station clock, counting the minutes until she would be home again, when someone paused beside her. She looked up. "John!" she cried unsteadily, as she rose to her feet. "Mary Louise!" he answered, taking both her hands and looking long into her face, then he went on "I've come to spend New Year's with you. Shall we go to Cousin Jane's for dinner, or would you rather go to some nice hotel, and to a good matinee afterwards?" She looked at him searchingly, for a moment, then she answered with a quavering voice: "I'd — — — rather go home, John, to the children!"
GIVE GOD THE GLORY. When the Twelve, or any other witnesses, stand before the congregations of the earth, and they preach in the power and demonstration of the Spirit of God and the people are astonished and say: — "That man has preached a powerful sermon" then let the man take care that he does not ascribe the glory to himself but be careful that he is humble and ascribe the praise and glory to God and the Lamb for it is by the power of the Holy Priesthood and the Holy Ghost that he has power thus to speak. "What art thou, O man, but dust? And from whence camest thou?" — Sayings of the Prophet from Vol. III, Church History.