Lord and Lady Aberdeen in Utah. The people of this State have had the pleasure of a call from Lord and Lady Aberdeen who are making a tour of the United States in the interest of their Irish philanthropies. Lord Aberdeen has been Vice-regent in Ireland for ten years or more, and Lady Aberdeen has organized several charitable and philanthropic societies for the betterment of the poorer classes in that unhappy country. She has erected a hospital for the consumptive children, which still lacks several thousand dollars to pay for the expense incurred. The war has interfered with their own sources of income, and with the usual charitable sources which they have drawn upon, for the building up of these philanthropic institutions. It is for this purpose, that they have undertaken this trip. Lady Aberdeen is President of the International Council of
THE MARQUIS OF ABERDEEN AND TEMAIR.
Women, and the General Board of the Relief Society felt it wise to co-operate with a committee of prominent women in looking after the lecture and entertainment of these distinguished visitors. They spoke in Provo on December 9th, and returned to Salt Lake on the 10th, where a reception was tendered them by the ladies of Salt Lake City, in the Hotel Utah. The Governor of the State, with his Staff, entertained the Aberdeens at dinner in the Alta Club, the evening of the 10th, and then adjourned to the Theatre, the whole party occupying the stalls for that occasion, witnessing the performance of Walter Whitesides' "In the Melting Pot." On Saturday, December 11th, an elegant luncheon was given for the titled visitors in the Hotel Utah, 250 ladies sitting down to the tables, which were decorated with shamrock and flowers. This was acknowledged to be the most brilliant affair ever given in the State by women. The menu cards were unique and beautiful, and contained a picture of Her Ladyship, with pictures of the Temple
THE MARCHIONESS ISHBEL ABERDEEN AND TEMAIR.
and the Hotel itself. They also contained the menu and the program of toasts and speeches, which were as follows Mrs. Heber M. Wells. Chairman, Mrs. Susa Young Gates, Toastmistress. Address of Welcome Mrs. Emmeline B. Wells Response Lady Aberdeen Peace:Mrs. F. M. McHugh Women in Philanthropy Miss Kate Williams Club Women in Civic Affairs Mrs. W. F. Adams Future Possibilities Mrs. C. H. McMahon Executive Committee. Dr. Emmeline B. Wells, Honorary Chairman, Mrs. Susa Young Gates, Chairman. Mrs. Heber M. Wells Mrs. Clarissa S. Williams Mrs. Sol. Siegel Mrs. Amy B. Lyman Mrs. C. H. McMahon Mrs. C. W. Nibley Mrs. A. J. Gorham Mrs. Janette A. Hyde Mrs. Thomas Kearns Mrs. F. S. Richards Mrs.W. F. Adams Mrs. Richard W. Young Miss Lucile Francke Mrs. George F. Stiehl Mrs. Alice Merrill Home. All who were present at the luncheon had their programs signed by the Countess herself, as a little souvenir of the occasion. The Countess was indisposed most of the time she was in the State. Elaborate preparations had been made in Logan and Ogden for receptions and banquets, which were attended by the Earl, but which the Countess herself was unable to reach. She suffered with the grippe, which has been so prevalent in this section, during the last three weeks. But she was delighted with the hospitality shown here, and remarked to the Chairman of the Committee, as she was leaving for Ogden, that Utah had really surpassed any other state in the quality of its hospitality, and in the splendid arrangements which had been made everywhere for their comfort and entertainment. She said she would never forget the women of this State, nor of this Church. She was particularly delighted with our honored president — Emmeline B. Wells — and paid her the charming compliment of initiating her into the Clan Gordon, by wrapping about her shoulders the tartan plaid of the clan. A word must be said concerning the labors of many of the ladies who are non-"Mormons," but who are prominent in club life in this City and State. Mrs. Heber M. Wells, Mrs. C. H. McMahon, Mrs. Sol. Siegel, Mrs. Gorham, Mrs. W. F. Adams, Mrs. Stiehl, Mrs. Simon Bamberger and Mrs. Root — all of these with other public-spirited women did yeoman service in their various activities. They were courtesy itself, and each piece of work which anyone of them undertook, was accomplished with dispatch and success. The ladies in Ogden, headed by Mrs. Georgina G. Marriott, had a most brilliant and successful arrangement there, which was somewhat marred by the illness and absence of the Countess herself, from the noon luncheon. The following introduction was made in Ogden by Mrs. Marriott, She said: "One might scan the pages of history in vain to find something exactly appropriate for this occasion. "In early centuries history fails to record acts of self-sacrifice, of benevolence, of charity, of sympathy. Deeds of prowess, of might and cruelty were the things deemed worthy of remembrance. As time glided by there was born to woman a humble little Babe who was destined to change and revolutionize the thoughts and ideas of the human race. "To feed the hungry, to clothe the naked, to minister to the distressed, to sympathize with the suffering and to love mankind became the keynote of the true followers of that Great Master. "Tonight we have with us a woman, who in every act of her life has exemplified the great pattern given to mankind; who has spent her best efforts in ministering to the sick and needy, in protecting the weak and the oppressed. Her crusades for pure milk supplies, playgrounds, child welfare fare centers and open markets are masterpieces of social work. One who has successfully entered the literary field, one who has been twice honored with the presidency of the International Council of Women and at present holds that position one of royal blood, royal, not alone; because of birth, but because she chose to become honored and loved by following the admonition of our Savior. 'He that is greatest among you shall be your servant.' "It is my pleasure to introduce the Marchioness of Aberdeen."
At Logan, Dr. Jensen and Dr. Widtsoe assisted by Mrs. Ball, and the ladies of the A. C. Club and public-spirited citizens gave a splendid account of themselves in both social and lecture functions. Only the Earl attended the Logan affair, but he was profuse in his expressions of pleasure at the reception he received, and the good people of Logan feel satisfied with the result of his visit. At Provo, Dr. George H. Brimhall, Mrs. Ida Smoot Dusenberry, Mrs. Jos. B. Keeler, Mrs. E. E. Corfman, and Miss Alice Reynolds provided a brilliant and beautiful entertainment and reception at the home of Hon. Jesse Knight, followed by a dinner, with toasts and speeches, which really won extravagant admiration from the visiting guests. We give here the charming introduction by Mrs. Dusenberry: A few evenings ago, had you passed a college a few squares north, you might have seen a very anxious-looking woman sitting in a library facing numerous tiers of shelves crowded with books. And had you looked closer, you might have detected a grave look of concern, when the contents of Shakespeare were examined and rejected when the volumes of Emerson and Tennyson were re-; moved, examined and cast aside when the philosophy and poetry; of Goethe and Dante gave no satisfaction. And then came a whispered exclamation: "I wonder if there was anything ever written perfectly proper and appropriate for one to say at so important a time." Stooping she picks up a little worn volume, which unnoticed had fallen to the floor, and you hear her read: "Inasmuch as ye do it unto the least of one of these, ye do it unto me." And then comes the simple, beautiful story of healing the sick; helping the poor; teaching the multitude to pray, and above all to love one another and then with a far away look on; her face, in memory she crosses the ocean, finds herself among thousands of noted women, seated in a great auditorium in the city of Berlin. Standing before her she sees a tall, stately, beautiful woman, beautiful because every line in her face says to you, "Universal human service." Sitting near, someone whispers. "Look the Countess. The President of the International Council! of Women." After following a presidential address, charming in its simplicity, with a kindly admonition here, a note of intense sympathy there, a little warning, some advice, all animated with the soul of love, you hear her say in conclusion:"I leave this thought. Happy is the mother whose daughter is her best friend. Blessed is the wife who can say to her son, I hope you will be as good as your father. And after all, the greatest thing in the world is love." Tonight it is my pleasure to introduce one of royal blood, not royal alone because of birth, but because she heals the sick, she helps the poor, she teaches the multitude to pray, and above all she teaches humanity to love one another. The Marchioness of Aberdeen.
All in all, we have fulfilled, in part, the expectations that the nobles of the earth should come up to Zion to learn of her ways, and we feel that great credit is due to all who in any way contributed to this splendid affair.
Cobwebs. "Good morning, Kate, I've just been calling On Lucile Hart, across the way She's the kindest little woman, Bright and cheery as the May; But oh, what poor housekeeping! Would you believe it, dear, I counted nine big cobwebs!" As sure as I am here 'Twas a neighbor stopped to gossip, And I feared the awful nine Would be few and quite forgotten After Bessie counted mine. But the cobwebs set me thinking Of the little wife Lucile, Of the work that daily calls her, Of the burdens she must feel There are seven little children. Each with a baby's right To her care, her love, her training And she gives it day and night To her husband she is offering A companionship that's true, With smile and help and comfort Such as come but to the few To her neighbors, her example Is a source of pure delight When, instead of hunting cobwebs. They are seeking truth and right To the world Lucile gives blessing. That the world will never know. In the hope and faith that follow Where her words of comfort go. "Bessie, don't be counting cobwebs Why, when you are laid to rest. Gossips will be searching corners For the things that please them best. If it's cobwebs, they will find them. If it's virtues sweet and rare, That a dearest friend would mention, They will find such virtues there, You're a thrifty little housewife. But you labor quite in vain. If, with all your anxious sweeping.