The Prince of Ur By Homespun. The Princess Sarai was once more safe in the confines of her own apartments. But even her huge eunuch feared for her, for he, standing in the shadows of the audience hall, had seen the look given to his mistress by the greedy eyes of the wicked Nimrod. There was no time now to dwell upon the death, which was very surely closing in upon the three Cushite damsels the eunuch's own mistress was threatened by far worse dangers. Her loving Milcah met her at the latticed door and tried to calm her trembling excitement. "Asaph, Milcah, Zul, come quickly!" cried Sarai, her voice harsh with the vibration of her fears, "Come, bind my hair, put it away from sight, wrap the dark kerchief about my brows, so — down to my very eyes robe me in my black tunic, cover up; my face with the corner of my robe, thus and thus. Oh, why have I been cursed with this fatal beauty With it I thought to! win the favor of the king, that I might save my poor black maidens, and it has only brought to me the hated favor of a — wicked man. Take these jewels, hide them deep put away my — — — — whimples all these veils of white get thee ready I am no — — longer safe the king has looked upon me ah woe is me! The distracted girls about her calmed her as best they could. But they—better even than their mistress — knew the gravity of her peril. "Where is my old nurse? Bring her, Milcah, bring her. Milcah, come, give me comfort. — Pray for succor— oh, why did mine own mother die, and I so young and lonely? Why did she leave me thus desolate?" The damsel was in a very panic of fear. All this time the girl was hastily making her preparations for sudden flight. She was too unnerved to make any plans of escape, but escape she felt was her only safety. Perhaps the villages of Terah or some distant sheepfold of the plains or hills might offer safe asylum. But where was father Terah and — — where was her kinsman Abram for it was to his wisdom, his courage, that she looked for deliverance at this time. She was soon shorn of her lovely trappings, and soon robed in the coarse and dark wrappings which she wore when out in the villages and fields on her frequent errands of mercy to the servants and shepherds and thus she stood with wildly beating heart, waiting for some message from Abram — her dear and wise kinsman — the protector of her childhood, the secret ideal of her maturer years, the hope of her deeply spiritual nature in her time of trial and despair. What hindered his coming? Oh, where could he be? She stood at her lattice work, and her delicate fingers clinched their fine tracery with nervous twinings. "Where dost thou linger?" she whispered, half aloud. "Where art thou, Abram? I have not troubled thee with my affection I have been very cold and prudent — even as thou hast been with me. I have not sent thee loving messages in thy long absences, but thou hast never left me in my time of peril, even when my own lips or eyes have brought me into trouble thou — hast ever been my friend — my kind protector Abram." — The mumblings and mutterings of her well-founded fears almost reached the ears of her crouching attendants. The very air of the great palace was surcharged with quivering excitement. A man was crossing the inner courtyard of the women's apartments. " 'Tis Lot, my brother Lot. Here, Dazan, bring him quickly to me. He at least will speak the truth." With swift bounds, the eunuch fled after the retreating form of the warrior, and in a few moments Lot stood within the audience chamber of the Princess Sarai. The formal oriental greeting between sister and brother over, Sarai turned to Lot anxiously "What of Abram?" she cried, with palpitating breath. "Abram? He is in council with the chiefs and shepherd kings. His own life has been forfeited, by his double attack upon the person of the king. Even father Terah sees the gravity of our situation. Nimrod seeks his life tonight, and he may perchance be offered on the same altar which will be dedicated with the blood of thy three maidens." —— "Ah!" her cry ran shuddering along the walls of the inner court "Abram!" "He dies unless some miracle of deliverance takes place. Nimrod has invited him to assist in dedicating the sacred altar to Elkanah at midnight. Abram's refusal will be his own legal death sentence. Nimrod will wear Father Adam's sacred robe of the priesthood, at this ceremony, and Abram as a priest cannot be disobedient. The little child of Azzi-jaami, which Abram has covered in his bosom ever since his return is also doomed to die," added Lot. "The little child. Oh! horror upon horror! What are we coming to? Where is our father Terah? What says he to all this reeking carnage?" "He is a soldier first: his country comes first to him: his religion and his family come after these. Yet methinks both father Terah and myself see things tonight with new eyes." "But my maids? My little dark-brown maids? They were so good, so obedient, so pure. And the little child? Who could wish him harm?" "None but Nimrod. He hath decreed that everything that Abram loves shall die with him. He himself will put Abram to the fire, if he refuses to use the knife of sacrifice upon the child and your three maid-servants. And should Abram pass through the fire, then he must be offered on the same holy and bloody altar that is to be consecrated with the body of the little child. Such is Nimrod's bold decree." "And Terah? What says he?" "Our father sits and glowers in awful woe. His very vitals are gnawing him to tear him loose from his life-long allegiance to this vile and wicked king. Oh, that he would flee, and thus protect his life and those of us who may be left after this slaughter of the innocents." "And what of Sarai?" The soldier looked at her. Her shining beauty was veiled in swathed clothes of blackened hue, and only the smoldering glory of her uplifted eyes shone full upon him. He sighed, as he realized how perfect was his sister's beauty and how few could forget that radiant gaze. "And you, my princess? Yes, and what of Irit, the little jade, and what of Ischa and Milcah? Irit loves a bauble better than she loves her food. And Milcah? And all your maids?" "Were you in the hall?" asked the distracted princess, too covered with modest shame to speak of her own peril, and now too concerned over Abram to remember her own danger. "Yes, I was there, my sister. When Nimrod's fiery gaze caught the dusky rays of thy bright eyes and gleaming hair, I knew that thou wouldst be in deadly peril this night under this roof, although it is our father's roof. Nimrod knows no law but his own desires." "I know, oh, I know. But Abram, what of him? shut — up in the council halls, and in danger for his own life." "My sister, listen to a gruff soldier. I cannot phrase my words with Mardan's graceful skill." Sarai cried out bitterly "Speak not of that traitor to me." "Even so. I am a poor handler of tongue and speech. Yet I am sure that thou art in far greater danger than our cousin Abram. His life may pay the forfeit of his courage and prowess — even in his own palace walls. But you have more than life to lose." He spoke with stern brevity and plainness. The princess covered up her face with the edge of her dark mantle and murmured: "The cross is heavy on me. I bear it day by day." "Nay, princess, I chided not, but warned. And in that warning, I would fain find some way to free thee from thy potent danger. But I lack in Abram's wisdom and resourcefulness." — "Then fly. Seek out Abram betray to him his own danger. No matter about me — 'tis Abram that is in most danger. Nimrod hates him and would destroy him this very night. Fly!" "Why not speak of thine own danger? Fear not, my sister, I may not think quickly, nor find ways to spring aside from coming danger, but let me tell you this that every man in all: this household of Terah stands upon his guard this night before thy latticed window. Abram knows far better than I can tell or see, the danger that your highness rests in at this very moment. But fear not. We would give life like water to shield you or any of our precious helpless women from harm or danger." "Has Abram spoken of flight?" "Ah, that he has." And Lot gathered his slow wits together to rehearse to Sarai all that Abram devised while fleeing from her door and sending out alarms to all the neighboring chiefs. "I thought that Abram would not forget the grave necessity of such a scheme." Even as they spoke, a swift messenger approached, saluted Lot, and told him he was wanted in his father's private council chamber. At the same moment, he handed to the princess a tablet, still damp and fresh from the hand that had graven upon it the message. Sarai took the small missive, and quickly slid the enclosing envelope away from the inner tablet, and as she read the message engraven thereon, she said "Go, Lot! Abram hath need of thee. He charges me to call my maidens, and all the women of the palace together" — she was reading as she spoke "and give them full warning of our expected journey before the morning breaks upon the valley of the Euphrates — mothers, wives, daughters, maidens, servants and slaves — all are to have a choice. But Irit —" and — here the eyes of the princess opened wide "What of Irit?" asked Lot, anxiously. "Abram says that Irit must be cherished very tenderly by me, and kept by my own person each moment of this night. Not for worlds am I to let her leave me, nor shall I fail to win her constant regard and trust. Do you hear? Abram is more anxious over Irit than over Sarai?" "Nay, princess," Lot said, slowly. "thou dost mis-read the message. I see some trace of anxious doubt in Abram's words of Irit. I think he has no occasion." But Sarai took the words of Abram to mean a very different thing. Sarai took her rapid way to the inner apartments of women of the household. Activity marked the usual quiet and placid afternoon hours. No one within had as yet heard of the happenings in the audience hall, but all were gaily discussing the midnight ceremonies which were to dedicate and consecrate the majestic temple of Ur, so recently completed, and now rearing itself aloft in the far end of the city. The walls of delicate pale blue and yellow enameled bricks gave forth a soft glow under the light of the numberless oil-vessels or lamps, as they stood upon every projection and in dim recesses, while the cabarets scattered about, held great silver vases full of perfumed oils that burned with clear radiance. The walls were here and there hidden by exquisite draperies of embroidered rugs and hangings, many of them rich with the cunningly wrought stories of the wars and loves of generations of princes and queenly maidens. Silver vases stood about, filled with the tropic blooms of the river gardens, while low divans banked themselves about the walls on which reclined the ladies of the household. Here were mothers, daughters, and distant or near female relatives of this great household, all now busy with the gossip of the coming midnight festivals. One of the ladies twanged a small harp, while others played games of dominoes, or other games of chance. Confections, delicate rich wines, dates, fruits, and dainty sweet-meats crowded the low tables. Sarai stood in amazement at the threshold of this long hall. For gathered in a group on the upper platform of the room stood Terah's twelve small idols, borrowed from the gardens, each in all its hideousness wreathed in flowers and with burning incense filling every crevice of the low-ceiled room. "What means this idolatry?" asked the princess, with quivering lips. One of the older women of the household looked up serenely and replied. "It means, my princess, that we are propitiating the gods of Nimrod lest his displeasure should fall upon some member of our household." "How can you do such things? You all know how wicked such things are." "Tush daughter of this house. I was living and worshiping! god before thy breath smote against the walls of thy mother's bedchamber. And I have learned long ago that all men are not bad who worship differently from ourselves nor are the sons; and daughters of Eber and Noah worse than ourselves. Leave us, Sarai." And the unhappy princess returned to her own chambers hopeless and helpless. Nimrod sat heavily brooding in his private apartments. His host had provided him with every luxury, viands of the richest and most elaborate wines and dates with rich confections, crowned the golden tables which were set in the outer salon. His chamber looked out upon the lovely courtyard of palms below. Slaves from the markets of Ur, priestesses from the Ziggurat moved about the perfumed interior with slow and velvety footsteps. But Nimrod saw none of them. His eyes were fixed upon the huge toes of his leathern sandals, and his thoughts were whirling round — and round in two squirrel-like ideas "Abram, the man is alive, when I killed thousands of children to slay Abram the infant." And to it was added, "Sarai, the Daughter of the Sun, is under this roof." These two deep impressions would revolve around and around in the crafty mind till suddenly some explosion of the will would clear a path for his vengeful feet to follow that would be as plain as the raised street which led from the palace of Terah to the ziggurat temple. "Abram — Sarai." Just outside his low windows the court musicians were humming and striking their weird and soft melodies, for like most colossal men, he liked all his luxury to be of the finest and most delicate elements possible. — "Your highness, my lord " began his chamberlain warily. — "What now " roared his master angrily. The man jumped as if a javelin had been thrust through his back, but speech was necessary at this moment, so he continued with cringing tones and attitude "Lord of the Universe, king of kings, greatest of all created men, be not displeased with thy slave. But the high priest of the Ziggurat attends upon your majesty to enquire if thou wouldst condescend to lend the light of thy countenance to the evening ceremonies at the temple of Mylitta. It is told him that numerous of the fair young daughters of Ur go there this night to sit — upon the Sacred Pavement for the first time and they have — — waited may it please your most gracious majesty these many moons, for this blessed day and time when the great god Nimrod Bilu-Nipru, would be here in his own glorious person to glorify and illumine the auspicious ceremony." "Waited for me, have they? Well, most of them will wait in vain. Am I a god? Yea, in majesty and prowess; but the clods of nature still hang heavily upon me as the years creep along." He still sat gloomily. Suddenly his features lighted up with joy. "Call to me the prince of Ur — Terah — and my son Mardan. Call them at once, I say. Quick, give thy feet wings. The Sacred Pavement tonight ha, my Princess of the Sun-god, you may not escape me now. Ha, ha, rest easy, my own soul have — I not said that I am a wonder and a marvel? Who can compare with me in all the earth? None, none! For was it not said by my grandfather Ham that I should be the mightiest hunter in all the earth? And that nations so far in the womb of time that their features could not be determined for millenniums should know me and should proclaim my name and my prowess when this earth is old and just ready for dissolution? Ha, ha, what shall I fear? — — Naught but death and death here, slaves, call me my augurers. Is not this the night before the Sabbath? And even I the king can not cast mine augurs tomorrow. Most miserable fool that I was to perpetuate so gross a superstition upon my people. But even I must obey mine own laws. So come ah, here thou art — Elgi, come — cast thine augurs, and see to it that they are bright, or I will have thy head." At that moment, the heralds cried aloud the names of the Prince Terah, and Mardan. "Room, I say, room for my host," cried the king lustily "and my own mouthy weakling of a courtier son Mardan. Come hither." "Shall we not await a better time," asked Terah, who saw the crowd of hastily summoned court priests arranging their augurs in their tripods and vessels. "Nay, nay, these sooth-sayers can continue their devotions in the outer halls. I have but a short message to deliver into thy privileged ears. Stand thou close my dear and favored kinsman — — — Terah. Have I not say now have I not been thy friend? Have I not made thee great in the earth? Second only to mine own place and glory dost thou not shine forth? Have I not kept my word pledged to thee when we were in thy first campaign old it was to me — — even then that swift onrush of arrowed men — — but new and very terrible to thee? Say have I not kept thine and my pledge? Have I interfered with thee?" !" "Nay, my lord the king, thou hast been true to thy word — "Ha, ha thou sayest truly. For if all the sins and wrongs; of Nimrod were laid up against his door, that of treachery to his own plighted word would not be found therein." "Speak not of sins, O gracious and holy one," said Mardan softly, as he sat caressing the king's feet. "Thou art without sin. Thy character hast been purged and purified by thy long service to God and man till thou hast come out of the furnace of affliction bright as gold seven times from the furnace pots. Thou art immortal as the gods!" Thus spoke Mardan, and his light brown eyes melted with the swift hypocritical tears and overflowed into his gorgeous abaya. His white hands clasped themselves before his breast in an attitude of eloquence. Nimrod looked piercingly at the effeminate youth. "What art thou? Spawn of a mighty father and a mother conceived in sin? I know thy kind. And although I pay great sums to have such things as thou sayest carved on my statues and painted on my walls, when I am under the roof of Terah's house I look for the bitter and wholesome truth even from my own son." Mardan colored to the roots of his hair. He had spent many weary hours in the schools of Ur and had been down to Nippur to further qualify himself in the luxurious art of oratory and courtiership. And now that so excellent a chance to use that pliant tool had presented itself, he was so clumsy and awkward — that even the old and flattery-hardened king his father — could see how raw and crude were his methods. Faugh he hated him-! self, the king, and above all, he hated his shamed kinsman Terah who had witnessed his second humiliation that day. "Let us to business," cried the king, turning his back rudely on Mardan. "Prince, I have but this moment accepted the gracious call from my priesthood at the temple to go down to the Pavilion of Mylitta, for this night's gorgeous offerings, and shall remain there resting over the Sabbath day. I am told that there are many choice and high-born damsels of this city who have waited impatiently for this night and the honor of my presence and favor. Say, hast thou not daughters in this house of thine?'" Terah would have willingly had his tongue torn from its roots, rather than answer that question to the king. But the piercing gaze of his old kinsman and ruler was upon him, and he knew the fire and flame which would leap forth at the least hesitation or suppression from him. And if he himself would hide portions of the truth, there was Mardan. What of Mardan? Traitor, ingrate, apostate? Ah, Terah's load was very heavy on his heart. But speak he must. But how? What should he say? Tell the names of those choice and beautiful daughters of his — household? Sarai she was already in mortal danger from this — same besotted king. Milcah, Iscah, Irit his blossoms of pure and perfect womanhood. What should he say? His mind worked quickly with the suddenness of his predicament and its need. He was the arbiter of his children's destinies, so long as they remained ever so loosely under the patriarchal order of the priesthood. — Terah spoke not from a thought taken, but from one given from some source he knew not where. "Sarai is, as you know, my lord, a princess royal of the house of Noah. She is beyond my jurisdiction, except as she may ask and receive my counsel. She stands, by virtue of the death of my wives and their mothers, as the supreme priestess in this household. Her hand has been sought by a dozen kings and potentates but she would be a sorry mate to one whom she hated or; despised. — She is her own mistress. Milcah the little grey dove of the courts of Terah —she, I have betrothed to her kinsman Nahor, and their nuptials are about to be celebrated this very night. So also with Irit, who is likewise to be given to my son, Lot, this very night. They have all but been awaiting my return. The marriages will be solemnized with due ceremony. Therefore, your majesty sees how impossible it will be to comply with your implied invitation." "Thy tongue runs away with thy wisdom. I said nothing about thy daughters going to Mylitta's Pavilion. But I shall not forget thy apparent wish to put an insult upon thy king — remember that Where is thy son Abram? I would have speech! with him?'" "He is at this moment engaged in his priestly duties in our own Holy of Holies. It would be impossible for him to leave the altar at this time, your majesty. You know as well as I the sacred nature of those ceremonies." "Again dost thou offer a refusal for thy guest and thy king? So thou sayest that Abram officiates at an altar? Hast thou ordained him to the priesthood? Does he wear the sacred robes?" "He is, your majesty, a most worthy and faithful bearer of the sacred priesthoods, which privilege he sought for with prayers and fastings, for some years of his youth before I learned of his devotion to the ancient forms of our common religion. So that, when he sought me for the conferring of the rights and offices of that sacred order, I could not gainsay him the privilege, but sent him to Salem to be ordained by Shem. And there he hath remained for thirty years. Since that day, I have been away with thee so much of the time that I have left the sacrifices and the ordinances entirely undone. On proper occasions Abram returns, and then he also wears the sacred robes of the royal priesthood as is his right." "Hum —hum—" mused the king slowly. His mind worked slowly, but his decisions were always reached with lightning speed. The men before him waited with bated breath. "It is well! Mardan, go you into the ante-chamber and — bring to me the latest news of my augurs for tomorrow is to be one of the greatest days of my whole life. And thou, Terah, carry to thy" priestly son Abram this message: Tomorrow night at the rise of the midnight sun, I shall expect him to be present at the altar of Elkanah. there to offer up the human and glorious sacrifice which shall drench the newly prepared altar, for which thou didst thyself— or thy workmen didst for thee— cast the patterns. There we shall ourselves await in full robes the coming of thy son Abram. and there he shall prove to all Chaldea his loyalty to God, his priesthood and his country. Nay, let me put them again in their order to thee: To the god of Chaldea-Bilu-Nipru, then to his priesthood, and finally to his country. Go, my worthy servant and host. Thine audience is over." Chuckling and chortling with unholy glee, Nimrod saw his erstwhile companion in arms depart with bowed head and crushed mien. "I'll teach thee Abram — — and thee Terah and thee Sarai. Sarai, ah, ah —Mardan, come hither, come hither quickly." Mardan flew from the outer halls to throw himself at the huge feet of his royal father, and with fawning kisses, he covered the sandals of his master with assumed devotion. "Thou young asp, tell me What power hast thou in this: household? Canst thou procure me a favor, the value of which is so great to me that thou shalt become my supreme heir, and shalt wear my own signet for all time." Mardan arose, and with his arms extended, he said proudly. —"Speak, O thou most glorious one, and thy words shall be obeyed, though in process thereof, it raze this palace to the ground." "Thou art too mouthy, my young brattling. But hist Come! hither. Canst thou devise some scheme whereby the young and beautiful princess Sarai can be brought to the Pavilion of Mylitta this night, after the shades of evening have fallen? I shall pass all the hours of the morrow's Sabbath in the Temple precincts. But this night is mine own, and I shall have much joy if I can with my royal person receive and initiate the beauteous Sarai into the mysteries of Mylitta's worship." Mardan colored and bit his lip. But after a moment's thought, he said, with more decision and less pomposity: "My lord is the lord of this whole earth. And if his wishes are expressed, it is the duty of his loyal subjects to see that they are obeyed. I know not just how this may be done, but I crave thee to lend me thine own signet, that whatever I shall ask of thine officers and soldiers shall be obeyed implicitly. For mine own retinue, I shall not require it." The youth looked fixedly at the king, and then with three swift and subtle motions he touched his head, his breast and his knee. With as quick response, his father lifted his left hand upward and then swung his right till they were above his head. Mardan turned without a word and swiftly glided out of the royal presence. "Apostate to the core. In league with witchcrafts and black arts, practiced by the sons of mine own father Cush. What black shadows may not hang over mine own heavens with such a reptile crawling beneath its horizon." Thus mused the king, as Mardan glided away. Nimrod now gave the signal for his magicians and priests to enter, and together they bent in anxious scrutiny over the various auguries and portents that had been cast while the king was busy otherwise. "Shadows, shadows, I see them, my wizards, thou canst not hide them from my gaze. The vampire has wings for a thousand tombs before the morning light may ring its crimson belts on the summit of the Ziggurat." "Nay, your majesty. These are but the portents of the great and last human sacrifice which thou hast deigned to permit to dedicate this thy latest Ziggurat. It is meet that the gods should thus signify their great acceptance of thy offering." "True, true, thou mayest be right. I will not wish it otherwise. But was it not said by father Ham that Nimrod would be the greatest son he ever sired? Then who can dim that glory? Send my steward of the robes. I shall be clothed this night in my royal garments and robes of the priesthood, given to me by father Cush, and from him obtained from father Ham through my grandfather Noah, just after they had left the ark. Men may have other robes, but it is Nimrod who owns and wears the very robe given to father Adam when he was driven out from the gardens of Paradise. Here, quickly, robe me in these invincible garments. For no power of heaven or earth shall resist their awful symbolism. The birds of the air, the beasts of the field, the — men of this puny earth and why not the beauteous Sarai pay — homage without stint to him who wears this most holy and mystic robe!" The Pavement of Mylitta— the Ziggurat, the Sabbath These! were the thoughts that flung themselves round and round in the monarch's slow brain, and in and out, like tiny mice, blinked and fluttered two names — — — — Abram Sarai Abram and Sarai heaven — — hell — — — — death life and beauty Abram Sarai what engines of power center in the brains of men! Power for good or power for evil! — But that power how vast, how incomprehensible, only God Himself may tell. (to be continued.)