Mental Hygiene for Women Past Fifty. The twenty-five years, or more, which reach out beyond the fifty-year mark for the woman of usual habits of health, should be years of reasonable occupation for the hands, of pleasant reflections to the mind, and of long hours of sleep and rest in the quiet chamber, which should be her own. Modern methods do not permit grandmother, always, to have this old-fashioned passing on of her active life. Instead of being allowed to work only according to her strength, she is the most over-worked woman in the community. Her strength has waned, but her ambition has not yet passed, and she thinks she can do a great deal more than she can. Consequently, she is generally over-burdened, and is always attempting to do things which her strength will not permit. The grandmothers who read this article should take themselves in — hand, and decide that they and not others —shall direct the last twenty-five years of their lives. What is the usual fear of the woman of fifty and past? Apoplexy, paralysis, and nervous collapse. These three are grim goblins and they wonder which of the three goblins will get them. Let such women remember that in the first place, if they will control their appetite, and eat reasonably — eating only needed quantities and those things that agree — apoplexy and paralysis are not likely to occur to them. Nervous collapse is for people who spend a great deal of time thinking about themselves. The most dangerous enemies to our peace of mind are self-pity, self-righteousness, and self-indulgence. Whenever you are inclined to have a crying spell, because you are not properly appreciated, forget yourself, and go out and find others who are not so well situated as you are. Minister to them, and give to them of your tenderest sympathy, and see if your own troubles do not fly away so quickly, you will forget you ever had them. Fear is a very deadly companion, and yet it haunts so many sensitive women, that it becomes almost necessary to treat it as a disease. Then, we would say, forget your fear put it far from you by filling your mind with other and happier thoughts. Loneliness is another form of suffering for those who have reached the age of fifty and past, and yet, in this Church, there is very little necessity for any woman — no matter what her age or condition, to be lonely. Relief Society and Temple work provides women with so much to hear, so much to contribute to the happiness of others, that no Latter-day Saint woman has opportunity or time for loneliness. No one should be idle. Idleness begets many sins and much suffering of body and mind, and, in fact, it makes its inroad into the very spirit itself. Occupation, both pleasant and unpleasant — occupation for we never reach a point when discipline of the spirit is not wholesome and good for us — should be provided for every woman. See that you prepare for yourselves, a line of daily labor which shall be possible for you, or at least that shall be profitable for those about you. Do not overwork yourselves. Watch for the danger signal and when you find that you are overtaxing; your physical or mental strength, stop, look, listen. And yet, in this stopping, looking, and listening, do not always be watching for signs of break-down, nor signs of disease in yourselves. Physicians tell us that when we watch for a certain disease, it is pretty apt to show itself in our body. A healthy denial of worry, or of any evil, is about the best way to get rid of it. It is almost useless to say to women "Don't worry," and "Don't be anxious." But, at least, worry as little as possible, and be as little anxious as you may. If you do not put helpful, beautiful, and building-up thoughts in your mind, the other power will see that your mind is well-filled with his own particular brand of reflection. "An idle brain is the devil's workshop." Blessed is the woman who has acquired the habit of reading in early life. When she reaches the age of fifty, and goes beyond, she is then equipped with the best and pleasantest mode of spending her spare time. Cultivate the habit of reading read light literature, if you cannot read the more serious, but spend some time each day in reading the scriptures. Association with the — great and good of this world both in the Scriptures, and in good — books will give you a broad outlook upon life, sympathy and understanding of all ages, and peoples of the world, and will prepare and qualify you for up-to-date companionship with those you love. Grandmother should have quiet sleeping quarters. It is neither wise nor healthy to have little children sleep with grandmother. She should have a chance in the morning to lie and rest, if she chooses;and yet, on the other hand, if she likes to get up early, let her do so, and give her some little work in the garden, or some little chore about the house, that will be equal to her strength, and which will employ and occupy her to her own delight and profit. Grandmothers should not interfere with the raising of their children's children. The methods of their children, in raising their families, may not be so good as grandmothers but at least, ; children should be allowed to carry out their own ideas. Learn to shut your eyes, and your ears, to everything but that which concerns yourself. Above all things, avoid self-pity. Never feel that you are neglected and abused. Avoid interference with anybody's affairs but your own and; learn to occupy your own mind with healthy, pure, upright thoughts. Try all the time to build up righteousness and not to tear down people. Relief Society and Temple work provides the — — women of this Church past the age of fifty with the very best activity that can possibly be conceived of. No woman need be idle,nor unhappy no woman need be lonely, who lives anywhere; near a Temple district, or who is within the radius of the Relief Society. You lose your troubles in finding others' you lose your; self in finding others." Let us close with the inspired hygiene instructions found in Section 88, of the Doctrine and Covenants "See that ye love one another cease to be covetous learn to; ; impart one to another, as the gospel requires cease to be idle; cease to be unclean cease to find fault one with another cease to; ; sleep longer than is needful. Retire to thy bed early, that you may not be weary arise early that your bodies and your minds; may be invigorated. And above all things, clothe yourselves with the bonds of charity as with a mantle, which is the bond of perfectness and peace." This paragraph contains the germs of every truth taught by physicians, Christian Scientists and philosophers. Engrave it on your memories and be healed. The superintendent of police in Philadelphia has issued orders that there must be no more bare legs in theatrical entertainments. Here are the orders in full, and the Salt Lake authorities would do well to "make note on:" "The act of April 13, 1911, makes it unlawful for any person to give or participate in, or for the owners of any building to permit any sacrilegious, obscene or indecent performances. The following are immoral and indecent "1 —The appearance on the stage of any theater of a female performer in nude or semi-nude condition, with the body or lower limbs naked. — "2 The exhibition of any picture of a female performer showing the performer in a suggestive pose. — "3 The portrayal of a dope fiend. — "4 Using on the stage of any indecent, profane, or immoral language, joke or story. "5 The portrayal of any degenerate,"