Current Topics. By James H. Anderson. The Mexican revolution seems to be growing smaller in extent, though not less bloody in its methods. The mining industry of Utah produced upwards of fifty millions of dollars in the precious metals in 1915. That is $125 per capita for Utah's population. Japan announces a readiness to send an army into Europe to assist its allies there. Yet, with German-Hungarian-officers training China's soldiery, the shrewd Jap is likely to keep his "weather-eye" open preferably in that direction. A sugar factory at Delta, Utah, seems to be a near probability, a company having been organized with that in view. There also is a movement for such a factory at Brigham City. At the same time some of the other factories are closing down early, owing to a shortage in this season's beet crop. The interurban railway main station opposite the southwest corner of Temple Square in Salt Lake City is looked on in a very favorable light by passengers who come into the city over the interurban lines, and whose general convenience is greatly enhanced by the new location. Morocco has become a civilized country, safe to travel in, and producing abundant crops instead of being nine-tenths waste, and all this since the French occupied it ten years ago. French liberality in governing the country also has resulted in great benefit to the natives. Greece has yielded to the demand of Great Britain and France not to interfere with their troops should the latter be driven from Bulgaria or Servia into Greece. It was the only way by which Constantine could remain on the Greek throne in existing circumstances, and even yet his position is of uncertain tenure. Increase of internal taxation is proposed by the American national administration, whereby smaller incomes than the present legal limit will be taxed, and the "war-tax" measure extended to other articles of common use than now provided. The prospective revenue for the national government under the present law is estimated to be $115,000,000 less than will be required for the ordinary expenses of 1915. Stripping of all supplies the portion of Russia and Belgium occupied by the invaders is reported to be the active policy of the latter, to the extent that the death rate among children remaining in those localities is greatly increased, by reason of insufficient sustenance. Thus dominant militarism knows no distinction of sympathy between the helpless infant and the soldier on the firing line, in its disregard of human life. Death by reckless driving of automobiles of several persons seems at last to have awakened some public officers in Salt Lake City to the enforcement of the law forbidding vehicles to run past standing street cars from which passengers are alighting. If officials chosen to enforce the law had done this earlier, there would have been less mourning among families whose bereavement came because of the neglect. Twenty children were burned to death at St. John's parochial school at Peabody, Mass., when a little crippled child fell and blocked the way of children trying to escape from the burning building. No school building should be limited to a single exit, however sufficient it may prove at a "fire-drill" when there is no visible cause of excitement. Hamburg-American steamship company officials in New York are shown in a trial in the federal court there to have violated the laws of the United States by sending a dozen or more ships from American ports to deliver supplies to German warships at sea. Berlin, advices say the British Mesopotamian army marched over from Egypt this is denied by British authorities. The fact; is that the Mesopotamian army came up the valley of the Euphrates from the Persian Gulf, while the large British army which left Egypt and the Suez Canal is in Southern Palestine, but the censorship permits little information regarding its movements to leak through. Enough comes, however, to show that Britain has an eye on the possession of the whole of Syria as an outcome of the present war. Dr. Haiselden, a Chicago physician, permitted a babe to die for lack of an operation which he said would save its life, his reason being that if the child lived it would be mentally defective. It is a dangerous thing, however, to permit any individual doctor to pass finally on such matters, since perfect judgment thereon, morally, is not vouchsafed in any training for the medical profession. Equal suffrage for women was defeated in five eastern states in recent elections but the fact that more than a million male; voters recorded their ballots in its favor is such a wonderful stride beyond what was possible even five years ago that the equal suffragists have abundant cause for feeling gratified, and for continuing on the highway to ultimate success, which is due within a comparatively brief period. The Hillstrom case in Utah came to a close by the execution of the double-murderer. When President Wilson interposed for the second time — this last occasion being at the request of the American Federation of Labor, which was not fully informed on the case — and intimated in his telegram to Mr. Gompers, the Federation head, that Hillstrom had not obtained justice at his trial, the action of the President was regarded in this locality as very unfair to Utah, being an encouragement to the campaign of lawless threats instituted on behalf of the condemned murderer. The Ancona, an Italian ocean-line steamship, was sunk by an Austrian submarine, which fired on the passengers as they were being lowered into the small boats. Among the more than 200 passengers lost were twenty-seven American citizens. The Austrian government holds that it is not amenable under the rule in the case of the Lusitania, since notice from the United States was sent only to Germany. American sentiment, however, regards Austria as much more culpable than Germany, since the dual monarchy knew all the diplomacy of that situation, and had no excuse of ignorance for killing unarmed neutrals, or even firing on the helpless men, women and children of belligerent nations. Nineteen millions of people, it is estimated, have passed through the gates of the San Francisco Exposition during the year, 1915. The European writers are discussing, very earnestly, the problem of the so-called war-babies. Over 180,000 of these babies, it is said, were born in Germany alone. Societies are studying the problem of removing the stigma from the generally helpless mothers and the innocent babies.
Home Science Department. Janette A. Hyde.