10 76 Hazel Davids 16 12 75 Beatrice Leavitt Recipes By Extension Division of the University of Idaho Paradise Pudding 1 lb. Marshmallows 1 medium can pineapple 1 c. English walnut meats 1 pt. Cream Chop marshmallows in small cubes. Drain juice from pineapple and chop fine; add the chopped nut meats. Chill. Whip cream stiff and mix all together just before serving. Delicious. Marshmallow Raspberry Fluff Whip a pint of thick cream very stiff. Fold in the beaten white of an egg and sweeten to taste. Have ready a cupful of finely chopped soft marshmallows; sprinkle these through the cream, mix and serve very cold. Parfait This delicious dessert is made in various flavors but the foundation is always a boiled syrup, such as is used for icings, with the white of eggs added. Boil 1 cup sugar and 1/2 cup water into syrup and pour over the well-beaten whites of four eggs. Beat until cool and then add 1 qt. Of whipped cream. Into this may be stirred any flavoring or crushed fruit desired. This is not beaten while freezing like ice cream and sherbets, but is packed in ice and salt until congealed. Jam Pudding l c. Jam 1/2 c. Butter 1 c. Sugar 4 eggs Bake in stone dish for fifteen minutes. Serve hot with whipped cream. Glorified Rice Pudding 1 c cooked rice (1/3c. Raw rice) 1/4 c. Brown sugar 1tbsp. Butter 1 tbsp. Gelatine 3/4 c. Milk 1/2 c. Cold water lc. (1/2 pkg.) sliced dates 1 ts. Vanilla 1/2 c. Cream whipped, or two egg whites beaten stiffly Soak the gelatine in cold water for at least five minutes. Scald the milk in the top part of a double boiler, add the butter, sugar, and rice. Add the gelatine and stir until the gelatine has dissolved. Remove from the fire, add the vanilla and dates. Cool until the mixture begins to stiffen. Fold in the whipped cream or beaten egg whites. Pour into a mold which has been rinsed in cold water and set aside in a cold place until firm. Serve plain or with additional whipped cream. This recipe serves 6. Apricot Cream Sherbet Measure 2 c. Of canned apricots which have been mashed through a potato ricer. Cover with 3/4 c. Sugar and let stand 3 hours. Fold in 1 c. Of cream whipped stiff, and freeze. Peach Dessert Place 6 peach halves in 6 ice cream glasses, cup side up. To chopped meat of 6 prunes add 1/4 c. Finely chopped pecans and enough peach syrup to make a soft paste. Fill depressions in peaches with this mixture and place another peach half on top, cup side down. Add spoonful of peach syrup and top with whipped cream. "