Control of Cancer UNDER the direction of Grace Morrison Poole, Past-President of the General Federation of Women's Clubs, now Dean of Stoneleigh College, Marjorie B. Illig, Chairman of the National Health Division of the General Federation of Women's Clubs, Dr. C. C. Little, Managing Director of the American Society for the Control of Cancer and Director of the Roscoe B. Jackson Memorial Research Laboratory, the women of the United States are being called upon to wage war against one of the greatest menaces to life?cancer. Cancer kills 140, 000 persons each year, and it is estimated that one-half of these could be saved if they sought medical treatment when the cancer danger signals appear. It is fitting that women should form an army to battle against this disease since they suffer more from it than do men, and the types of cancer that strike them, cancer of the uterus and breast, may be cured in seventy per cent of the cases if taken in time. Women have already played an important part in combattir~ tuberculosis and in charity and public health drives. Now they are asked to replace fear and inert ignorance with courageous alertness plus positive action. The slogan of this movement is "Early cancer is curable. Fight it with knowledge." The first enlistment week is March 21 to March 27, 1937. The enlistment fee is $1.00. We feel the cause is worthy of whole-hearted support. "Through a series of mass meetings, lectures, radio broadcasts, newspaper and magazine articles, exhibits and distribution of literature, an intensive educational campaign is to be carried on. Nationally known speakers have already enlisted their services to get the MESSAGE OF HOPE to the American people." "A continuous program of education is necessary to rout ignorance and mystery and bring about control of this disease." Those who enlist would like to know how their money is to be spent; 70% will go to the states for activities within the states, 20% to the Central Office in New York City, for expenses involved in the field, 10% to a contingent fund.