Lesson Department (For First Week in April) Theology and Testimony Lesson 7 Tue CuRIsT AS ORGANIZER OF A CHURCH Helpful References In the New Testament: Matthew 10; 16:18; 17:1-9; Mark 3:13- 19; Luke 6:12-16; Acts 1:12-26; 13:1; 14:23; John 1:35-50; Luke 10:1-24; Romans 12:4-5; I Corinthians 12:12-31; Ephesians 4: 11-12; Hebrews 5:1-5; I Timothy 3:1, 12; Revelation 1:6. In the Book of Mormon: 3 Nephi 11:18-27; 18:5; 19:4-7; 27:1-11; 4 Nephi 1-5; Moroni 2-6. In the Doctrine and Covenants: Secs. 7:1, 7-8; 10:69 (compare Matthew 16:18); 22:3; 84:107- 108. Talmage: The Articles of Faith, Chapter 11. Talmage: Jesus the Christ, pp. 361- 363, 368, 700-702, 736-738, 741- 42. Rall: The Teachings of Jesus, pp. 95-97, 1. Some Believe that Christ Did Not Organize a Church. To some Latter-day Saints the title of this lesson may seem rather trite and commonplace. They may say, "Have we not been taught all our lives that the Christ organized the Church during His ministry and placed officers in it?' What they say would be true. But we hasten to point out that to many people outside our faith such a title would provoke great interest and surprise. It is, as a matter of fact, quite common to find in current publications statements by scholarly men to the effect that the Savior did not concern himself with organizing a church. One writer says, Ideally... The church is today, a fellowship or community of all who are trying to live as God's children after the spirit of Christ. If we ask for Jesus' teaching concerning this fellowship, we find we have scarcely anything bearing directly upon it. The Gospels give us nowhere any precept from Jesus as to the duty of organizing a church, or directions as to how this shall be done. Nor do the beginnings of the church at Jerusalem imply this. The disciples apparently still consider themselves a part of the Jewish Church, though they assemble themselves together, as would be expected, and look to the twelve for guidance and leadership." At the conclusion of his book, Jesus of Nazareth, Dr. Joseph Kiausner tries to answer the question, What is Jesus to the Jews? He says, "It is somewhat strange to ask, What is Jesus to the Jews? 'Jesus,' says Wellhausen, 'was not a Christian: he was a Jew,' and, as a Jew, his life-story is that of one of the prominent men of the Jews of his time, while his teaching is Jewish teaching of a kind remarkable in its truth and its imaginativeness. 'Jesus was not a Christian,' but he became a Christian. His teaching and his history have been severed from Israel. To this day the Jews have never accepted him.... But Jesus is, for the Jewish nation, a great teacher of morality and an artist in 116 parable. He is the moralist for whom, in the religious life, morality counts as?everything." Dr. Klausner, a Jew, is one of the most influential and celebrated Hebrew scholars of our day. No one can miss some of the implications in the statement quoted above. The Savior "became a Christian' not because he organized a Church, but because his teaching and his history were severed from its Jewish environment. Such teaching about the Christ is important for Latter-day Saints to know. If we are to make the message of the Church very effective it becomes necessary for us to present the principles of the Gospel in a way that takes cognizance of the beliefs of others. 2. Our Church Organization gives Insight to the Organization in the Prinutive Church. If the Christ, during His lifetime, set up a Church, we should reasonably expect it to be of a pattern that would be in fundamentals, at least, the same for all time. Local conditions might change, it is true, but a relatively perfect Church organization ought to provide for that. In other words, we should expect the Church on earth to be patterned in fundamentals after that in heaven. Such we believe the Church organization in this dispensation to be. The pattern we have ought, then, to give us an insight into any similar organization set-up in the Savior's lifetime. Let us, therefore, look at some of the New Testament references that concern our problem. 3. Christ Aided by Distinct Bodies of Men. It will be noted that when the Christ's ministry actually began he saw the need of calling others to His side to help him. The tenth chapter of Matthew records their names and the charge He gave them. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE In the first verse it is recorded that "he called unto him his twelve disciples, he gave them power against unclean spirits, to cast them out, and to heal all manner of sickness and all manner of disease." The word here translated as "power" is best rendered by "authority." That better expresses the matter. One ought to read this chapter carefully. The charges given by the Christ to his apostles are not such as would be given by an ordinary leader to his followers. They were given by one speaking with authority and not as the scribes. Why would such unusual charges be given if the Christ had only a fellowship with his apostles in mind and not a Church organization? The tenth chapter of Luke is also of peculiar significance. In the first verse of this chapter we read, "after these things the' Lord appointed other seventy also, and sent them two and two before his face." The seventy are also mentioned in the seventeenth verse where, after their return, they rejoiced over their successful mission, and especially because of the authority which was theirs. This group of seventy would seem to be a quorum of men distinct from the twelve apostles. In this dispensation the Lord has made it plain that there are in the Church among others, two distinct bodies of officers in the higher priesthood, the Quorum of the Twelve Apostles, and the Quorum of Seventy. We should note, too, the special place Peter, James, and John held in the organization with which the Savior surrounded himself. In the seventeenth chapter of Matthew is the record of how they were in the presence of the Christ when he was transfigured, The Prophet Joseph Smith tells us that on this occasion these three men received certain keys of authority. In LESSON DEPARTMENT the Epistle to the Galatians 2:9 two of them are spoken of as "pillars." The prominent role played by Peter, James, and John shortly after the Savior's resurrection would seemingly correspond with that displayed by the First Presidency in the Church today. It is necessary, however, to turn to literature in the New Testament other than the Gospels to see the Primitive Church organization in greater completeness. Doubtless the pattern was given by the Christ during his ministry. Some would object to this statement by saying that the Church organization portrayed in the Epistles reflects nothing more or less than the Apostle Paul's genius. Indeed, many conclude that Christianity is essentially "Pauline Christianitv." From this conclusion we respectfully dissent; Paul and the other apostles of his time simply built up the Church as they had previously been directed by their Redeemer. "And he gave some apostles; and some, prophets; and some, evangelists; and some, pastors and teachers; for the perfecting of the saints, for the work of the ministry, for the edifying of the body of Christ." (Ephesians 4:11, 12.) Questions 1. Which Article of Faith of the Church expresses our belief with 117 respect to the organization of the Primitive Church? Repeat it.; 2. How many different offices of the Priesthood can you find mentioned in the New Testament? The Book of Mormon? Cite references for each. 3. What is meant by an "evangelist?" (Iephesians 4:11) Problems for Further Study (Treat only those that time and circumstances permit.) 1. Give as many plausible reasons as you can why the writers of the Gospels did not more clearly portray the Church organization set up by the Savior. 2. Some people hold that churches are unnecessary, that men can live as good lives without them as with them. Justify, if you can, the existence of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. 3. By reference to the New Testament answer as well as you can the assertion that the organization of the early Christian Church was due more to the genius of Paul than to that of Christ. Hint?See Ephesians 4:11, etc. C 4. Read carefully 3 Nephi 27:1 11. What reasonable conclusions can be reached from this scripture respecting the establishment of a church in Palestine during the Savior's ministry? Teachers' Topic (For April) THE PHARISEE AND THE PUBLICAN Luke 18:9-14 ND he spake this parable unto certain which trusted in themselves that they were righteous, and despised others: "Two men went up into the temple to pray; the one a Pharisee, and the other a publican. "The Pharisee stood and prayed thus with himself, God, I thank thee, that I am not as other men are, extortioners 118 unjust, adulterers, or even as this publican. "I fast twice in the week, I give tithes of all that I possess. "And the publican, standing afar off, would not lift up so much as his eyes unto heaven, but smote upon his breast, saying, God be merciful to me a sinner. "I say unto you, this man went down to his house justified rather than the other: for every one that exalteth himself shall be abased; and he that humbleth himself shall be exalted." This was spoken to or about certain persons who trusted in themselves, that they were righteous. The two worshipers were taken from the most distinguished and the most despised classes of the Jews, a Pharisee and a publican. The Pharisees were a prominent religious sect among the Jews. They felt themselves to be separated from other men and from the unclean in their own nation. They were respected as citizens of high standing. They were pious observers of the law and this strict adherence to small points often led to hypocrisy and self-glorification. Christ found on many occasions much to condemn in their actions and their attitudes toward others. The publicans were collectors of taxes for the government. They leased certain districts and had to raise a certain amount of money from them. It was necessary to impose extra taxes in order to get pay for their own services. As a result they were very unpopular.
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
The time was a special hour of prayer for the Israelites and all had the privilege of the temple. The Pharisee drew himself apart from the crowd and began "I thank thee." He numbered his virtues and good deeds. The publican was the picture of humility. He stood "afar off," his prayer was one of confession and entreaty. The Lord drew from the parable the suitable lesson that the proud shall be humbled and the humble exalted.
This lesson of humility of heart is the chief end of the parable. It brings peace and love to ourselves and justification in the sight of God. The "I say unto you" makes it clear that humility is an indispensable virtue.
The immediate purpose of the parable of the Pharisee and the Publican was to denounce the false profession of the Pharisee and to approve the sincerity and toleration of the publican. Papini in his "Life of Christ" says, "Sinners when they recognize the evil which is in their hearts and abjure it with true humility, are nearer to the kingdom than pious men who daub themselves with praise of their own piety."
Humility is not self depreciation or lack of enthusiasm. One may be dignified and courageous and still humble.
"He that is down needs fear no fall, He that is low, no pride; He that is humble ever shall Have God to be his guide."
LESSON DEPARTMENT 119
Work and Business (For April)
SEEDS AND PLANTS
IN this short lesson in amateur gardening we will not go into detail about the preparation of the soil as we presume it has been well dug, fertilized, and pulverized, as these simple preparations are very essential. We shall discuss the beauty and satisfaction of having borders of some of the best known and least expensive of all flowers.
Spring: To have an effective Spring border it is necessary to plant in the late summer or early fall. The prettiest one I have ever seen was made of a broad band of forget-me-nots in the close background, with double lemon tulips, "Murillo," in center and a broad strip of Arabis in front touching the lawn. The tulips and arabis will be good for years and the forget-me-nots will seed themselves year after year. Pansies are beautiful in place of the tulips and should be set out in September. Pansy seedlings may be purchased at your seedsman's before they have been transplanted into his cold frame at 1? cents each.
Summer: Summer borders are easily grown with a minimum of expense and labor. A great favorite is one made of French marigolds in the foreground, then a close bank of scarlet sage with the tall snow-on-the-mountain in the rear. The green foliage of all of these plants is as attractive as the flowers which are born in almost unbelievable profusion. No garden is complete without a row of golden gleam nasturtium. These flowers are double, fragrant, with long stems and are unsurpassed for picking. They bloom from July first to the time of killing frost. If you have a sunny walk in the back yard be sure to have a gorgeous bank of four-o'clocks on each side of it.
Early Fall: Zinnias and African marigolds make a bold, showy tall border and are at their best when planted alone with plenty of space.
All of these seeds are easy to germinate, easy to grow, and remain fresh and in bloom from late spring until late fall.
Perennial borders are a lasting joy, but it takes years to establish one that is really beautiful unless a great amount of money is invested.
Literature (For Third Week in April)
Lesson VII JULIA WARD HOWE
THERE is the sharpest possible contrast between the life of Lincoln and that of Julia Ward Howe, and very much of a contrast between her life and that of Alice Freeman Palmer. Julia Ward Howe had behind her wealth and station as well as gifts of both body and mind. Lincoln and Alice Freeman Palmer were richly endowed both mentally and spiritually. Julia Ward had as ancestors on
 
both sides the best blood that America had to offer. Her father, Samuel Ward, was a New York banker. Her mother, Julia Rush Cutler, who was married at sixteen, died at twenty-seven, having had seven children. Mr. Ward felt he could not longer live in the house where he and his wife had been so happy; so he moved to No. 16, Bond Street, which was out of the beaten path of the city. Mrs. Ward had asked that her sister should have the care of her children, so Aunt Eliza, who seems to have been a very cheerful person, came to the Ward home. Julia, who bore her mother's name, and was born May 27, 1819, was then a child.
"The amusements of the little Wards were few" we are told. As a child of seven Julia was taken twice to the opera, where she heard Malibran, then Signorina Garcia, a pleasure the memory of which remained with her through life. About this time Mr. Ward's views of religious duty deepened in stringency and in gloom. There was no more opera, nor did Julia ever attend a theatre until she was a grown woman."
When she was sixteen the family moved from No. 16 Bond Street, into a "statelier dwelling," on Bond Street and Broadway. This was the house Julia loved, the memory of which was dear to her throughout her life. She often recalled the spacious rooms hung with red, blue, and yellow silk. Behind the main house stretching along Broadway, was the picture gallery, the first private one in New York, which was said to be the father's "especial pride." "The children might not mingle in frivolous gayety abroad, but they should have all that love, taste, and money could give them at home."
Julia studied both vocal and instrumental music. With her music was a passion. Her music master, Signor Cardini, "trained and developed her inborn taste for all that was best in music." He also discovered that she had a good voice. It was a mezzo-soprano, "of uncommon range and exquisite quality."
She was always a student. She possessed a veritable gift for language. She is said to have known English, French, German and Italian. "She spoke and wrote them throughout her life correctly as well as fluently, with singularly pure accent and inflection. She was also proficient in history. She had no gift for mathematics, and used to say that her knowledge of the subject "was limited to the fact that four quarts make a gallon."
Julia's girlhood evenings were spent mostly at home, with books, needlework, and music, varied by an occasional lecture or concert, or a visit to some one of the uncles who lived nearby. But much as she loved her home, her books, and her music, she longed for some of the social life her three handsome brothers were enjoying. She wrote she seemed to herself "like a young damsel of olden times shut up within an enchanted castle," and for all her father's kindness, "noble generosity and overwhelming affection," as she puts it, he "sometimes appeared to me as my jailer."
She was now nineteen, a woman grown and feeling it. She had never had a party of her own, nor had she ever selected the people who were to come to the home for an evening. She grew rebellious and told her brothers that she was going to have a party. She asked them to help her make out lists, but said the responsibility was solely her own. She asked her father if she might invite a few friends on a certain evening, and he gave his consent.
LESSON DEPARTMENT 121
She engaged the best caterer in New York, the most fashionable musicians, and even hired a splendid cut-glass chandelier to supplement the sober lighting of the yellow drawing-room.
The evening of the party Mr. Ward stepped into the group and discovered "as brilliant a gathering as could have been found in any other of the great houses of New York." If he was amazed or annoyed he concealed it and met the guests with "charming courtesy."
When the party was over Julia's brothers gathered about her asking that they be allowed to go to her father on her behalf, but she insisted that it was her place to see him. She sought and found him alone. She could not speak, nor was it necessary that she should. He told her "gravely" that her idea of a few friends and his was very different, that "he was sorry that she had not consulted him more freely, and begged that in the future she would do so. Then he kissed her good-night with his usual tenderness and it was over."
Then followed days when there were many admirers. An intimate friend speaking of this time said: "Louisa had her admirers, and Annie had hers; but when the men saw your mother they just flopped!" She was "compassionate" with her suitors but she at least could not marry them all, "so she sang duets with one, read German with another, and Anglo-Saxon with a third."
The United States was struggling with a financial panic in 1836-1837. It called for all the strength that men had. Mr. Ward labored incessantly to save the honor of the banks of New York; but disaster came and the banks were obliged "to suspend specie payments." Still Samuel Ward was not a man to waste time in vain regrets. He began at once to arrange things so that the banks could resume without unnecessary delay. This was accomplished in a year's time, through the Bank of England granting a loan of nearly five million dollars in gold. Mrs. Howe never forgot the afternoon when her brother Sam came into her study from Wall Street and cried: "Julia, men have been going up and down the office stairs all day long, carrying little wooden kegs of gold on their backs marked 'Prime Ward and King' and filled with English gold!" The honor of New York State was preserved through the English gold. The fact that Mr. Ward procured the loan "was the greatest asset in her inheritance from the old firm," Mrs. Howe said.
In October, 1839, the beloved father passed away?that father who had fought so hard for financial honor, who had nurtured his children with great devotion if somewhat strictly through his long widowerhood. "Julia was with him when he died, his hand in hers." Her love for her father was most constant and ceased only with her life. Yearly she recorded his birthday in her diary never failing to add words "of tender remembrance."
In the summer of 1842 the Ward sisters were in a cottage near Boston. With them was a friend, Mary Ward, who was no relation but had been betrothed to their brother Henry. Here they often received visits from Charles Sumner and Henry Wadsworth Longfellow. Julia had heard of Mr. Howe's wonderful feat in educating Laura Bridgman. The young women were invited by their friends from Boston to visit the Perkins Institution for the blind, over which Mr. Howe had been director for nine years. As they walked about the institution, says Julia,
 
Mr. Sumner looked out of the window and said: "Oh! Here comes Howe on his black horse." She looked out, she says, and saw "A noble rider on a noble steed."
Their acquaintance ripened into good will and during the winter of 1843 they became engaged. Mr. Howe is described as having a "slender military figure, jet-black hair, keen blue eyes" and a "brilliant complexion." To this we add a picture of their courting days, from a private journal of the time. "I walked down Broadway with all the fashion and met the pretty blue-stocking, Miss Julia Ward, with her admirer, Dr. Howe, just home from Europe. She had on a blue satin cloak and a white muslin dress... They say she dreams in Italian and quotes French verse."
Of special interest is Mr. Sumner's letter to her, written after he had learned of her engagement. Mr. Sumner wrote:
"Howe has told me, with eyes flashing with joy, that you have received his love. May God make you happy in his heart, as I know he will be happy in yours! A truer heart was never offered to woman. I know him well. I know the depth, strength, and constancy of his affections, as the whole world knows the beauty of his life and character. And oh! How I rejoice that these are all to mingle in loving harmony with your great gifts of heart and mind. God bless you! God bless you both! You will strengthen each other for the duties of life; and the most beautiful happiness of life shall be yours?that derived from inextinguishable mutual love, and from the consciousness of duty done."
"You have accepted my dear Howe as your lover; pray let me ever be your most affectionate friend, Charles Sumner."
To her brother Sam who had married into the Astor family she wrote: "The Chevalier says truly?I am the captive of his bow and spear. His true devotion has won me from the world, and from myself. The past is already fading from my sight; already, I begin to live with him in the future, which shall be as calmly bright as true love can make it. I am perfectly satisfied to sacrifice to one so noble and earnest the day dreams of my youth. He will make life more beautiful to me than a dream."
The wedding took place at her brother Samuel Ward's home on April 23, 1843. Ten days later the bride and groom sailed for Europe. Horace Mann and his bride, Mary Peabody, sister of Mrs. Nathaniel Hawthorne, were on the same boat. Mrs. Howe wrote: She never should forget the stay in London. "Dr. Howe's reputation preceded him and every reader of 'Dickens' American Notes' was eager to meet the man who had brought a soul out of prison." Charles Dickens had taken them out sightseeing, and Sidney Smith had been very kind. Sydney Smith "calls Howe 'Prometheus,' and says that he gave a soul to an inanimate body."
Questions
1. To what forces do you attribute Mr. Ward's aversion to the theatre? Why was his daughter not given an opportunity for more social contacts at home and away from home?
2. Do you think Julia solely at fault for the elaborate party given in her father's home? Do you think her father should share part of the blame? Discuss the situation as a problem in rearing children.
LESSON DEPARTMENT 123
3. Do you feel in the lesson something of the pulse of New York when it was growing into a city of wealth? What are the details that point toward it?
4. What do you think of Sumner's letter to Miss Ward? Is there in it some promise of the man Sumner afterwards turned out to be? Would you like to see this letter in a collection of literary letters? If so, why? If not, why? What do you learn concerning Mr. Howe from the letter?
5. Who was Laura Bridgman? What did Dr. Howe do for her that caused people far and near to discuss the matter?
6. Who was Prometheus?
Note: Additional material may be found in "Julia Ward Howe," by Richards and Elliott.
Social Service (For Fourth Week in April)
Lesson VI SOCIAL PROGRESS
Text: Civic Sociology, Edward A. Ross, Chapter XVI.
ONE of the goals of a socially minded people is to improve the general conditions under which humanity lives. But at times it is extremely difficult to determine how existing methods of control over human behavior should be modified with the hope of bettering conditions for those who are influenced by them. However, new situations and problems are constantly being projected for consideration and adjustment along such lines. Civilization is so complex it is difficult to get a standard for the measure of progress. As each succeeding year passes it is hard to evaluate the immediate effect of what has transpired upon human happiness. We speak freely about social progress. But what is the yardstick by which change may be measured in the adjustment of humanity to racial problems and institutions in its forward achievements and in its retrogressions, or backward movements?
A comparison of life today to that which existed in an average community with comparable situations five hundred years ago, would leave no doubt as to the superiority of modern conditions. The basis for judgment which leads to this conclusion will be discussed in this lesson by developing the following points:
1. Acquiring some understanding of the meaning of social progress.
2. The application of the principles of social progress to our own lives and community problems with the hope of promoting desirable interest in social welfare.
The factors which help to determine social progress may be divided into two general classifications: first, those which condition human behavior; and second, those which develop control over the forces, or gifts, of nature for man's purpose.
"Conditioning" human behavior means influencing the emotions, or feelings, towards a sense of gratification and happiness, or towards one of unrest, discontent, and the reverse of happiness, as well as the intermediary stages between these two extremes. Therefore, all the
 
institutions which man has set up for the control of human behavior might be included in those which condition social control. The machinery for government, for education, and for the supervision of health and of crime, and of all aesthetic developments are among the conditioning factors. Any change which tends to raise the general level of these institutions for the ultimate benefit of mankind leans towards social progress. If time proves that the change actually produces an improved state it may be classified as social progress.
There is undoubtedly room for progress along all the lines mentioned above and in all conditioning factors. But only by understanding the necessity for such changes and by supporting the movements which are planned for progress, can it be achieved. For example: In spite of all the work that is being done towards its eradication, the existence of such things as crime, juvenile delinquency, and the exploitation of one level of humanity for the benefit of another are still prevalent. Unequal industrial opportunity is the source of much unhappiness. Political opportunism leads to unfair advantages for some at the expense of others. As long as any of these conditions exist there is room for progress.
There is still much to be accomplished in the improvement of the physical and mental condition of the race. Although much has been done to protect man from disease and to conserve human life, as the lower death rate proves, physical efficiency can still be increased tremendously through an increased application of scientific knowledge. Vital statistics are often quoted to show a favorable increase in births and a low death rate. Such conditions are indeed important, but some nations with exceptionally high birth rates are in an extremely unprogressive state. But though good health records may be indicative of favorable conditions, some of the essential elements of life may be lacking. However, any nation that can produce a high statistical curve in health records can be said to have made great social progress.
The laws under which we live; the services of federal, state, and city governments; the basic institutions which affect daily life, such as educational and cultural institutions; the inventions which alter modes of living, and even the kinds of clothes we wear and the food we eat, undergo continuous modification. Some of these changes may have marked a backward step and some may have produced a stationary condition, but most of them have given rise to forward movements in the patterns of human life. But since it is so difficult to judge what is of real benefit to the continuous development of the race, it might again be said that the test lies in the state of general welfare and happiness that is eventually attained. But since life is so complex and such multiple factors condition happiness, often false standards of progress are set up with the mistaken idea that they will lead to joy and betterment. Calling attention to some of these mistaken ideas should help to prevent their recurrence, and to develop more balanced judgment in determining what changes should take place.
A frequent error is the assumption that an increase in wealth and economic goods is a measure of progress. Although wealth is important, it can be a source of misery as well as happiness. If progress is to be
LESSON DEPARTMENT 125
measured by the increased service of wealth in behalf of humanity, it must be understood that the term "wealth" refers to those commodities which satisfy human wants and not to the amount of money a single individual has. Progress depends upon the use to which wealth is put, both nationally and individually. In and of itself it may be worthless as a means of happiness. To support social progress its use has to be directed according to the best understanding that economic and social leaders can bring to bear upon its dispensing and use. Such an understanding cannot be better defined than national ideals permit. This is an example of what is meant by the necessity for the general public to have an understanding of the meaning of social progress, because a nation depends upon its citizens for its level of achievement in all directions.
In regard to the use of wealth for social progress, it can hardly be devoted to a higher means than the provision of better houses, better clothing, a more adequate food supply, and greater conveniences and pleasures for the advancement of humanity at large. Such a wide distribution of the benefits of wealth cannot be brought about without an extension of ideals and education in that direction. How it is to be managed is as yet unsolved. But as long as some people accumulate more money than they need for even a luxurious standard of life, and others have much less than they need for the necessities of life the problem of the use and distribution of wealth will remain a challenge to those interested in social progress. However, it is desirable to present this ideal, because when even a small number of people become aware of the fact that such an ideal is worth striving for as a means of supporting democratic governments, religious organizations, and other prevailing institutions in the countries that these lessons serve, education towards social progress has undoubtedly been stimulated.
Mention should be made of the great influence that education, science, and the arts have as conditioning factors in influencing human behavior. They come to people almost as gifts because they are available to every one who cares to take advantage of the opportunities offered at his very door; but they should not be taken too much for granted. None of them are either all good or all bad in their influence as "conditioners." Any one of these factors may be used either towards progress or retrogression. In addition to the great benefit that education is to mankind, it may teach false standards. Art and all supposedly cultural subjects may be evil in their influence. Science may tear down spiritual and religious values. But none of them need to. And it is the responsibility of those who are interested in social progress to obtain an understanding of what will lead to progress along these lines according to the highest meaning that he is capable of understanding. But the layman cannot do this alone. All these conditioning factors can be bettered only through proficient and specialized leadership in the fields mentioned, and with the intelligent cooperation on the part of the layman. We should seek spiritual guidance for the benefit of social progress through prayer and through contact with our religious teachers and officers. It is of vital importance, and its fulfillment depends upon those who are privileged to obtain an understanding of its meaning.
 
In the second classification, progress is measured by man's control over physical nature. His comforts and scientific progress in life are measured according to his increasing ability to bend nature to his ends instead of adapting himself to its rigors and unmodified necessities. But, the extent to which he has adapted his great utilization of nature's gifts to the welfare of all mankind reveals how far he has moved towards social progress. For scientific progress is not identical with social progress and does not necessarily imply social progress. In fact, the two are quite separate. Only so far as the marvelous results which have been accomplished in adapting nature to man's needs have been devoted to the benefit of all mankind can a nation be said to have advanced towards social progress. Such progress presupposes a certain amount of idealism; therefore a combination of such idealism with scientific knowledge is necessary to the general progress of humanity.
Natural energy, such as water power and electricity have been captured and reduced to man's needs. Great irrigation projects have been devised. The discovery of radium has transformed medical treatment. Other scientific discoveries have done much for the preservation of health and the prolongation of life. Research in chemistry has contributed greatly to industrial efficiency, and has thus added to the comfort of life. Each instance tells the story of increased control over natural phenomena. Any nation is civilized only to the extent that man has mastered nature and turned it to his use. And again, it has achieved social progress only to the extent that these benefits are devoted to all its members.
All the above factors are units on the measuring stick of human progress. Their test is proved by time in terms of human welfare and greater happiness.
The second purpose of this lesson directs attention to the advancement of social progress through the improvement of those conditions over which each individual has control.
The development of a sound progressive system of education is one of the first essentials. Each generation must be brought into touch with the social inheritance of the race. But the transmission of the cumulative knowledge of the past is but one part of the responsibility of education. It has been pointed out that the improvement of life demands the growth of knowledge and its proper utilization. A continual readjustment of education to fit social needs is essential. It must always aim toward moralizing life. The mind must be liberated from ignorance, intolerance, and social prejudice.
The Lord has said: "For behold, this is my work and my glory?to bring to pass the immortality and eternal life of man." (P. of G. P.: Moses 1:39) Such a goal is the ultimate end of all progress. As members of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints our responsibility is doubly great. Not only are we obligated to maintain the social achievements contributed by civilization, but in addition our goal is set for the "eternal life and immortality" of all mankind. Such ideology carries increased obligations and duties to church members.
Each member of the Church should strive to promote and harmonize the finest intellectual, cultural, and economic achievements of the race. He should advance the spiritual salvation of all through a more meaningful participation in the ordinances and prin-
LESSON DEPARTMENT 127
ciples of the gospel. To this end the effectiveness of one's actions must be tested by altruistic motives. He should cooperate with the social achievements of the race and be active in promoting the progress of the church in its march toward its goal.
There is probably not a ward in the church but what needs more help in promoting social ideals. Intelligent leadership toward goals which do not get lost in the multitude of daily tasks is called for. More religious toleration, more altruism, more spirituality is needed at home and at the church gathering, as well as in the world at large.
Activities
Outline a plan by which you would try to overcome some of the obstacles to social progress in your own ward or community. In most communities many people are apathetic toward community enterprises and reform movements. Devise a scheme for getting people in your community interested in some needed project.
Compare the present characteristics and achievements of your community with conditions of from ten to fifteen years ago. On the basis of the comparison decide if the community has been as progressive as it should have been.
Child Guidance
Lesson 7 HOW TO ADMINISTER REWARDS AND PUNISHMENTS
FEW policies in child guidance are more difficult to settle on than what to do about punishment. Some parents lay great store by the doctrine, "Spare the rod and spoil the child." Others base all their hope on love and forgiveness, and on allowing the child complete freedom. In recent years, our attitude has swung toward the latter point of view, which William James called "soft pedagogy." Probably the answer is not yet, and the proper place of punishment may be more clearly recognized in the future. Certainly too little discipline and too much coddling frequently defeats the mother's fine intentions of rearing her child into a happy adult. On the other hand, there can be no doubt that the use of corporal punishment is to be discouraged in general. This is not because it is never of value, but because it is so difficult for parents to properly determine when and how it should be used. Felix Adler claims corporal punishment makes criminals, and we often do find in the histories of delinquents that flogging is the principal resort of the parents in disciplining the child. Yet in other cases we find that the most striking factor contributing to incorrigibility is the utter lack of any effort on the part of the parents to correct the behavior of their children. Under the latter kind of treatment, misbehavior often sprouts like weeds in an uncultivated garden.
In psychological literature on learning, we always have with us some attempt to describe or explain why we retain successful acts and eliminate unsuccessful ones. Thorndike, in his famous work on educational psychology in 1914, taught the doctrine that successful acts are
 
retained because they are more satisfying or more pleasurable and that unsuccessful ones are eliminated because they are annoying or unpleasant. Somehow the satisfyingness or unsatisfyingness were thought to "stamp in" the right act and "stamp out" the wrong one respectively. This was called the "law of effect." It meant that whether the effect of the act is pleasant or unpleasant determines whether it will be retained or not. This "law" has been under much fire in recent years, because of certain issues we shall not take space to discuss here. A later version of the doctrine, based on much experimentation, holds that the effect of an act, or its consequences, may consist simply in knowing what the result is, regardless of whether it is pleasant or not. It is now fairly well agreed that learning does not take place without this knowledge of the effect of the separate acts involved. Much of the learning of children in social relations, and moral as well, is extremely slow because the effects of the acts are not clearly seen. Manipulating the social environment does not yield such clear effects of acts as does manipulating a toy automobile.
Thorndike has recently given evidence that seems to indicate that rewards lead to learning and that punishments have very little to do with it. We build habits out of the acts that seem to lead us most directly to our goals. Punished acts, according to Thorndike, are not eliminated by the punishment itself but are selected out by substitution of right acts with their rewards. Animals, such as white rats, will not learn to tread a maze properly if they are not motivated by some strong urge such as hunger. If food is not found at the end of the hungry rat's quest, it doesn't learn the maze even though it is permitted to explore the maze all it pleases. When the reward is found without exception, the rat learns a complicated maze in the course of thirty or forty trials, so well that it makes no error. The goal seeking of the small child is much the same. If the result obtained is not agreeable to him he is not likely to persist in that act. Moreover, the reward must follow immediately after or it may lose its connection with the right act.
Here the immature child is caught in a dilemma: much of the routine he is expected to follow doesn't seem to make sense. The parent then becomes tempted to hold out candy, stories, toys, and other rewards to bribe the child into doing what should be done for its own sake. Recently a mother reported that her child would not attend to his toilet unless she gave him candy at the same time. Perhaps younger children do need more than older ones such extrinsic rewards. As the child grows, he can be motivated more and more by remote incentives such as social approval, self-respect, and other less apparent values that accrue from a well regulated life.
Parents make two general uses of rewards: first and most commonly, to get things done; second, to teach the child proper habits. The first method teaches the child to do what is required for the sake of rewards which have no relation to the act. The unhappy result is that unless an artificial goal is set up thereafter, the act is not done. The second use of rewards requires deep insight into what is going on in the child's mind. The reward is then carefully calculated to grow out of the act as a natural consequence. The child who has done a good job of washing his face
LESSON DEPARTMENT 129
is told modestly that he looks nice because that is one of the main reasons we should keep clean (social approval). When the child has behaved bravely at the dentist's he might be given some special favor; but he should not be promised it before as a bribe. If you promise rewards, the heroic act, the good impulse that might have originated in the child is defeated because the act then becomes directed toward the bribe rather than toward the value of the act itself.
Parents must also guard against setting up for the child an artificial social world in the home. Overgenerous praise by parents may become a handicap for the child when he attempts to find his way in the wider, and less generous, social world out of the home. An overinflated opinion of one's self may be a serious impediment throughout life. The considerate parent will choose to be sympathetic and encouraging to the growing child by giving a measure of praise not too incompatible with what life is to be like out of the home.
While a safe rule with regard to praise is to be somewhat conservative, it is still more important to consider carefully the meaning to the child of punishments administered. "Let the outcomes of acts do the punishing," like every rule, is valuable only when seasoned with a good measure of discretion. True, the child must learn that fire burns by sooner or later suffering a burn, that interference with the play of other children brings slaps, and that not attending to the toilet brings a disagreeable situation; but no one would contend that it is necessary to let the natural consequences of pulling down boiling pans of water, crossing crowded highways, and putting hands into wringers administer their own punishments. A certain amount of warning and careful watching on the part of parents would prevent some of the terrific toll from accidents of this kind to the preschool child. Prompt and uncamouflaged rebuke is sometimes the natural consequence of an act and should be so taught.
One famous psychologist a number of years ago believed in permitting his children to do as they pleased always. On one occasion a new grand piano was purchased for the home. The parents were away at the time it was delivered. When they returned the boys were casually carving up the legs and walls with their pocket knives. They were still permitted to do as they pleased. This is obviously freedom carried to an absurd extreme.
One great danger in the use of punishment is that it is too likely to be administered in anger. Punishment in anger is not given for the education of the child, but to vent the mother's or father's anger. It accomplishes just that, and in addition is likely to make the child resentful. For punishment to be effective, as already pointed out, it must follow promptly upon the misdeed and the child must be made to see immediately the connection between his act and the punishment. Sometimes we hear "Just wait 'till your father comes home, Young Man." Father is given the disagreeable task of laying on the stripes. Is there any wonder that the boy who is a victim of this treatment intensely dislikes and fears his father? The lesson drilled into such a boy is "Be sure not to get caught next time." It cannot be emphasized too strongly that punishment of this kind does not correct the faults at which it is directed. Few faults are so serious that we should 130 wittingly exchange them for deceitfulness and loss of cooperation with the child. More will be said in a subsequent lesson, under the title, "Parent-Child Relations," as to how seriously punishment affects cooperation.' One of our fine mission presidents once called in a missionary because of misconduct and said in the course of his rebuke, "Brother, I love you with all my heart; but I hate your damnable sin." This incident illustrates a fine point which is applicable to children: Learn to distinguish between the act and the child. If a child tells a falsehood, he should not be called a "liar." He has simply told a falsehood, but we should not generalize him into a lost soul. Many slight acts cause serious consequences, i. e., a child bouncing a ball into a precious vase. The act should be evaluated psychologically?in terms of what the child's intentions were, and what his reaction is to his mistake?rather than economically or materially, before determining what the treatment should be. This is hard doctrine to follow; since the more serious the material or social consequences of misbehavior, the more violent is the anger of the parent and the more lively the punishment is likely to be. Whenever punishment must be administered, the child should be made to feel that the love of the parent has not been irreparably lost. Joseph Smith taught the proper procedure when he spoke through revelation: "No power or influence can or ought to be maintained by virtue of the Priesthood, only by persuasion, by long-suffering, by gentleness and meekness, and by love unfeigned; by kindness, and pure knowledge, which shall greatly enlarge the soul without hypocrisy, and without guile?reproving betimes with RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE sharpness, when moved upon by the Holy Ghost; and then showing forth afterwards an increase of love toward him whom thou hast reproved, lest he esteem thee to be his enemy." (D. & C. 121:41-43.) In conclusion the following principles are suggested for consideration by the class: 1. Let rewards and punishments be natural consequences of acts so far as is consistent with common sense. The more intrinsic the incentives, the less need for extrinsic rewards or punishments. 2. Don't lecture until your words wear out. Emerson said, "How do you expect me to believe what you say when what you are thunders so loudly in my ears I can't hear you." Make few threats, and make only those that can be carried out to the letter. 3. Plan a program for the child that allows for a proper balance between freedom and regulation, Minimize the need for punishments by providing normal outlets for the child's activity. 4. Be consistent in your program. Make an agreement with others cooperating in the care of the child on some definite procedure, and then hold to it. Don't laugh at a child for pranks today and thrash him for the same acts tomorrow. Try to agree among yourselves on methods of discipline so that the child cannot find a retreat in the other: parent or relative in the home. No discipline can be effective when the parents are at cross purposes on the procedure. 5. Make punishment consistent with the psychological nature of the act. Watch for tendencies in the child that indicate he wants punishment in order to be the center of the stage. Isolation is the best cure for this behavior. LESSON DEPARTMENT 6. Don't punish in anger, because a competition is set up between the ' parent and the child that obscures in the minds of both just what is the meaning of the punishment. See that the child comes to dislike what he has done, not to dislike you or himself. 7. Don't praise so lavishly that a faulty evaluation of self is developed. Problems for Discussion 1. What are the objections to the doctrine "Spare the rod and spoil the child?" 131 2. Distinguish between extrinsic and intrinsic rewards. 3. Why does most corporal punishment fail to accomplish its purpose? 4. Why do artificial rewards, bribes, fail in their purpose? 5. Point out some exceptions to the rule, "Let the consequences of the acts themselves do the punishing." 6. What is the danger of overpraising the child in the home? What is the danger of never giving encouragement?