(To be continued)
Sarah Carmichael—Patriot Poet
By Mary Maurine Root
SEVENTY-FIVE years ago there lived in Salt Lake City a young woman who had a heart and mind snapping with life. Activity, we all know, can be of a mental as well as an external nature. Twinkling feet, flying hands and dancing tongues accompany the vivacity of physical responsiveness, but one can be perhaps more truly living whose body is quiescent, but whose spirit is throbbing with ideas and feelings, and who is experiencing vicariously the interests and events of a multitude of physical identities. Sarah Elizabeth Carmichael (later Williamson) lived exuberantly this latter type of existence. Alert to the significance and beauty of the universe, she expressed her reactions in poetry which we recognize today as evincing many of the qualities of genius.
We could analyze her work from a number of standpoints. One of the most striking impressions we can get of her, however, is that of a pure and ardent patriotism. She fostered this patriotism until it became a virile, living part of her. It was a broad, a humanistic patriotism that she had. Sarah Carmichael was no chauvinist. Her attitude was not "right or wrong—my country!" She loved her native land as a mother who loves a child intelligently enough to chastise it for its faults. She identifies herself with its welfare so intimately that its pathological condition keenly perturbed her.
PRECIOUS things must be considered earnestly, Miss Carmichael felt. The profound sincerity of her nature would not tolerate without violent protest the "hollow laugh" and "putrid mirth" that essays to cover up a tragic reality. Evasion of the truth is far from noble, far from intelligent. Her sense of compatible values stimulated a chafing that would not easily subside as she saw the incongruity of the "tremble of ivory keys" side by side with the "passionate throb of drums." "Soulless pageantry" and "mimic strife" are appropriate accompaniments in the duel for a "jewelled glove," perhaps, but they are egregiously out of place in a struggle for a nation's life.
Several of Miss Carmichael's nature poems are tinctured, not only with a local patriotism—born of appreciation for the beauties which she saw and felt around her—but with her concern for the entire nation in its crisis. Her poem, "The Mines," which gives expression to her love for, and pride in, the West, implores that men "bring the nation's wealth to the nation's need"; but in "California" we see this localized patriotism  combined with her heartfelt national loyalty. The third verse is most characteristic: "Cheer for the coast where the billows sing! The proudest plume of an eagle wing, The brightest ray of a starry ring— California! Pouring the wealth of her yellow veins, And her ruby gems, on the battle plains— True to the core of her deep, warm breast:- All hail! Thou glorious queen of the West— California!" Isolated as she was Sarah Carmichael eagerly kept in touch with happenings in the eastern and southern states. In "The Flag at Sumpter" we see her typical reaction to one of the initial events of the war. Here is the first verse: "Yes, they have raised the Flag again— Who dares to strike it low? Its light burns into every vein That hath one pulse to glow. It is the same bright Flag that rose Above expression's frown, Our Land's first challenge to its foes— Who dares to strike it down?" The second and third verses of "Our Country" are especially indicative of her enthusiasm: "Our country, ours! The tiniest flower That lays a spangle on thy dust And gleams amid thy turf, is ours! And ours to guard, a sacred trust; But tho' the latest blossom dies, When madness tramples_ thro' bowers, Still shine the stars in thy blue skies; Our country still!—forever ours." thy "Our country! Ours!—thy glory shines Upon the lowliest one whose claim Is but a portion of thy sod— A heart-thrill woven with thy name. But were the shaft of ruin thrown, That flashes where the storm-cloud lowers Thy hour of sorrow is our own! Our country still!—forever ours!" The poems in this article are taken from Poems by Sarah Carmichael, published by Towne and Bacon, San Francisco. Poetry, the sincerest human emotions are woven into one integrated universal appeal. From several points of view, "Abraham Lincoln's Funeral" ranks, I think, as Sarah Carmichael's masterpiece. To be appreciated adequately it must be read in full: Toll! Toll! Toll! Toll! All rivers sea-ward wend. Toll! Toll! Toll! Toll! Weep for the nation's friend. Every home and hall was shrouded. Every thoroughfare was still, Every brow was darkly clouded, Every heart was faint and chill. Oh! The inky drop of poison In our bitter draught of grief! Oh! The sorrow of a nation Mourning for its murdered chief! Toll! Toll! Toll! Toll! Bound is the reaper's sheaf! Toll! Toll! Toll! Toll! All mortal life is brief. Toll! Toll! Toll! Toll! Weep for the nation's chief! Bands of mourning draped the homestead, And the sacred house of prayer; Mourning folds lay black and heavy On true bosoms everywhere. - Yet there were no tear-drops streaming From the deep and solemn eye Of the hour that mutely waited Till the funeral train went by. Oh! There is a woe that crushes All expression with its weight! There is pain that numbs and hushes Feeling's sense, it is so great. Strongest arms were closely folded, Most impassioned lips at rest; Scarcely seemed a heaving motion In the nation's wounded breast; Tears were frozen in their sources, Blushes burned themselves away; Language bled through broken heartthreads; Lips had nothing left to say. Her most sublime patriotic poem, however, emanates much more than patriotism. In it, as in all great SARAH CARMICHAEL—PATRIOT POET 79 Yet there was a marble sorrow In each still face, chiseled deep— Something more than words could utter, Something more than tears could weep. Selfishly the nation mourned him, Mourned its chieftain and its friend; lye no traitor mist could darken, Arm no traitor power could bend; Ifeart that gathered the true pulses Of the Jand's indignant veins, And, with their tempestuous spurnings, Broke the slave's tear-rusted chains. Heart that tied its iron fibres Round the Union's starry band, Martyr's heart, that upward beating, Broke on hate's assassin hand! Toll! Toll! Toll! Toll! Never again—no more— Comes back to earth the life that goes Hence to the Eden shore! ~ Let him rest!—it is not often That his soul hath known repose; Let him rest!—they rest but seldom Whose successes challenge foes. Tle was weary, worn with watching; His life-crown of power hath pressed Oft on temples sadly aching— He was weary, let him rest.... Toll, bells at the Capitol! Bells of the land, toll! Sob out your grief with brazen lungs— Toll! Toll! Toll! SARAH CARMICHAEL'S life had an ironically sad ending. She who had been mentally so alert, so aware of the essence of living, was doomed to exist for over a quarter of a century a victim of mental vacuity. Of all things she had dreaded death most—not death of the body, but spiritual, emotional death brought on by a soul shrivelled up by cowardly and ignoble attitudes. She loved life—noble, pulsating, spiritual life, of which her patriotism was a sample. A stream of consciousness vibrating with gentle, sympathetic, sensitivity: this was her recipe for ideal living. This philosophy she voiced in her poem "The Dead," the last verse of which reads: Weep for the dead; not those who claim Immortal life on the scroll of Fame; Not for the soul that feared but shame; Not for the life that reached its aim; Not for the step that marked in flame Print of a hero's tread. Weep for the dead that breathe and speak; Dead, with a life bloom on the cheek; Dead, for they have no aim to seek; Dead to the core—dead! Dead as the use of a wasted hour; Dead as the dew on a poison flower; Dead as a soul's crime-palsied power— Dead! LIKE all nobly intelligent characters, Miss Carmichael had learned that real living consists of forgetting self in the process of feeling for life pulses outside of one encased identity. She sensed that "He who loseth his life shall find it.' The only poem in which she deigned to deal with such an unimportant subject as herself was in her last one, which she wrote just before her mental collapse. This poem seems to have been a premonition. Beautiful in its weird, yet sweet, solemnity, it reveals so poignantly the bewildered, conflict-stricken Sarah Carmichael Williamson that we find ourselves enmeshed within the grips of a tragic qualm, sublimely conscious of "'tear-drops" that "inward bleed." LAST POEM Down by the river, The dark, flowing river That flows to eternity's sca, Pray to the Giver, To God, the Good Giver, And pray for my venture and me. Cold it is, dark it is, Hushed as my heart it is, Beautiful river sublime; Many ships fail on it, Still as they sail on it— Strange, crooked river of time! Down by the riverside, Wreck-covered riverside, Pray for my venture and me. Pray for us, pray for us, Solemnly say for us, "God guide thee safe to the sea." Strong is the river-tide, Rough is the riverside— Pray for my venture and me!