Notes from the Field
Julia A. F. Lund—General Secretary
HANDWORK FROM TAHITI
Tahitian Mission
THE above picture is a collection of beautiful handwork which was sent to the office from far away Tahiti. When the sisters of this Mission were told by the Relief Society President that the different member groups were having a display of handwork at the general office, they too were anxious to send a sample of their work. The collection which is photographed above came from the different branches, and was brought to the office by an Elder who returned from the Mission. According to Sister Muriel R. Mallory, the Relief Societies of this Mission are in a very excellent con-
 
dition. The sisters are striving to the best of their ability to cooperate in the work, and as far as possible follow the regular courses and activities of the organization. It becomes necessary at times to substitute material more suitable for the local conditions, but the Magazine is of great help, and the different materials sent from the office are used as far as possible. It is felt in the Mission that the sisters enjoy a great blessing in their work, and they join in sending their love and best wishes to the other Relief Society women throughout the world.
Brazilian Mission
FROM the Mission President, Sister Mary P. Howells, comes the pleasant news that the Relief Society work is getting actively started in this Mission. While there has been an organization for a few years in some of the large branches, very little has been done in any of the localities until recently. Now active organizations will be found in all of the branches. The material sent to this Mission will, as in other cases, have to be translated, but the sisters are most appreciative of the work and eager for instructions and for service in the Relief Society. Sister Howells writes: "We are very pleased in having a number of friends becoming interested in the Gospel through their activities in Relief Society, and we are expecting much in the future."
Netherlands Mission
A VERY interesting report of the work in the Netherlands Mission comes from the Mission President, Sister Hermana F. Lyon, and the account of the Relief Society conferences held shows a very distinct growth during the past year. The native sisters are very anxious to learn of the manner in which
NOTES FROM THE FIELD 107
Relief Society work is conducted, and of the Church-wide program. Some of the subjects discussed are "How we can make our Relief Society bigger and better," and "How Relief Society Teaching should be done." In addition to this the sisters have been shown samples of the handwork, and are extremely interested in this phase of the Relief Society program. A comparative report shows that during the year 1936 there was a very decided increase in attendance at the meetings, and in the general program of activities.
Danish Mission
VERY fine reports come from the Danish Mission where the Relief Society work has been most successfully conducted throughout the past year. In this Mission the effort was made to follow through very carefully the programs of study as suggested in the regular Relief Society courses, and some fine biographies which were especially interesting to the sisters of this land, were prepared by the native sisters. The District Conferences also were a very great success during the year, and did much to interest the sisters in the work. The Home Reading Project, "Back to the Scriptures," has met with particular favor in this Mission where it is enthusiastically conducted. The Mission President, Eliza S. Petersen, writes that they are well and enjoying their labors and thoroughly appreciate the cooperation of the fine people with whom they are working.
Hawaiian Mission
FROM the Hawaiian Mission very fine reports have come to the office of the splendid work which is done in the Relief Society. This land has long been known for its devotion to the work, and a letter from Sister Cassandra D. Bailey, Relief Society Mission President, is an expression of this fact. The sisters are enthusiastic in carrying out, as far as possible in all the branches of the Islands, the program of Relief Society work. The older mothers like to hear the lessons given in their native tongue, while the young mothers prefer English, so when the membership justifies it, two classes are held. In this Mission, as in some of the European, the literary lessons were chosen from some of the native personages, such as King Kamehameha I, King Kalakaua, and Queen Liliuokalani. In some of the branches there is a splendid cooperating course with the University Extension Division of Hawaii, and the sisters receive valuable instructions on the preparation of foods, balanced diets and home-making in various ways. Through the Relief Society the standards of home life are being raised to a higher level. There has been a great increase in the enrollment and in the attendance during the past year, and it is felt that this is largely due to the influence of the Relief Society Magazine, which now has a very fine circulation through the Islands.
SISTERS OF FRANKFURT DISTRICT OF SWISS-GERMAN MISSION
Swiss-German Mission
THE Mission President, Sister Susan G. Kelly, reports that they have just come to the close of the very successful series of Fall conferences in the Relief Society. The women throughout the Mission have thoroughly enjoyed the lessons in every department. They are very anxious to consider some of the practical phases of the work, and are particularly interested in subjects dealing with health, care of the teeth and kindred subjects. The work which is done for women is gaining each year in popularity, and the lessons have been much more enthusiastically received, and the sisters give more attention to them. Another interesting activity in this Mission is the Singing Mothers, who are doing very excellent work. The above picture is of the Frankfurt District. There are some very wonderful singers and musicians in this Mission, and the music is of an extremely high order.
Notes to the Field
THE Presidency and General Board of Relief Society are more grateful than is easily expressed, for the inspirational messages and beautiful greeting cards sent to them by the member organizations at the holiday season. They wish to thank each one individually for these. The tender expressions were but another exquisite reminder of the devoted service, the dependability, the unequalled cooperation of the Relief Society women in all Stakes, Wards and Missions. President Louise Y. Robison voices the sentiments of her co-workers when she sends her love and best wishes to every sister in the organization. Her constant prayer is that 1937 will be the happiest and most prosperous of years!
A LARGE majority of the Stakes have expressed a desire for the course of nine lessons. In some cases, however, it suits conditions better to begin the regular courses of study in September instead of October, and to close in May rather than carry through to June. There is no objection to this, provided the plan is uniform throughout the Stake. In order to meet the needs of those who desire to begin early, the publication of the lessons will begin in the July, 1937, issue of the Magazine, instead of in August, as previously announced.
Theology Department
The study of our Theological lessons, the Teachers' Topic, and the Scripture Reading all have a fine correlation one with the other. There are different methods of approach, but one single objective—the living, unfaltering conviction of the divinity of Jesus Christ. The following extract which is reputed to have been written by Napoleon, forcibly expresses this:
"Alexander, Caesar, Charlemagne, and I, have founded great empires; and upon what did these creations of our genius depend? Upon force. Jesus alone founded His empire upon love; and to this very day millions would die for Him. I think that I understand something of human nature, and I tell you all these were men, and I am a man. No other is like Him. Jesus Christ was more than a man. I have inspired multitudes with such an enthusiastic devotion, that they would have died for me; but to do this it was necessary that I should be visibly present with the electric influence of my looks, of my words, of my voice. When I saw men and spoke with them, I lighted up the flame of self-devotion in their hearts. Christ alone has succeeded in so raising the mind of man toward the unseen that it becomes insensible to the barriers of time and space. * * * All who sincerely believe in Him experience that remarkable supernatural love toward Him. This phenomenon is unaccountable; it is altogether beyond the scope of man's creative powers. Time, the great destroyer, is powerless to extinguish this sacred flame; time can neither exhaust its strength, nor put a limit on its range. This is what strikes me most; I have often thought of it. This it is which proves to me quite convincingly the Divinity of Jesus Christ."
NOTES TO THE FIELD 109
Literary Department
Consider Julia Ward Howe as:
1. Writer. Poems, "Battle Hymn of the Republic." Essays, Select examples you enjoy—why? Diary and letters.
2. Homemaker. Homes. Green Peace. "Revere the religion of home." Wife. Helpmate. Mother. Daughters. Little Sammy Hostess. Entertained graciously, often.
3. Friend. Emerson. Quote from journal. Whittier. Expression of appreciation.
4. Crusader. Peace movement, international. Woman's suffrage, sacred mission.
5. Worker. Lectures. Numerous. Subjects. Reading. Type. For enjoyment. Clubs, opportunities for public service. Traveler. Purpose, extent.
6. Philosopher. "The good God does not send affliction without comfort, but the weeping eyes and breaking heart must struggle through much anguish before they can reach it...."
7. Woman of Faith. "I desire to set my house in order, and be ready for my departure, thankful to live or willing to cease from my mortal life when God so wills."
Point out the changes in Julia Ward Howe as she developed from the shielded daughter of a rich man to the time when she entered into her husband's social work for the afflicted.
Interesting it is, and very enlightening to discuss Mrs. Howe's philosophy of life. Her biography contains many of her comments and views which would make profitable discussion pro and con, and this would be a most excellent way to socialize a lesson. For instance she has said, "I think perfect and fearless frankness one of our highest duties to man as well as to God."... "The manna fell from heaven early in the morning, and those who neglected to gather it were left without nourishment; it is early in life's morning that we must gather the heavenly food, which can alone support us through the burden and heat of the day."
Her daughter, Maud, asked her once, "Tell me what is the ideal aim of life?" She replied, "To learn, to teach, to serve, to enjoy!"
LEGISLATIVE. The State Legislature is now in session. Many matters of vital interest to the women of the state are being discussed. It is advisable to keep informed on these matters and so far as possible have an intelligent understanding of them. The laws that govern us mean much in the conduct of the home and our daily lives, and it is the privilege of every citizen to influence legislation that will better conditions and thwart if possible the passage of any measure deemed harmful to the welfare of the progress and prosperity of the state. The delegations from the different counties generally hearken to the appeals of their respective constituency. So let us be watchful and awake for the passage only of such measures as will in the best judgment promote the health, peace and prosperity of the people as a whole.
(Concluded on page 131)
 
THE GENERAL BOARD
Emma A. Empey Amy Whipple Evans Annie Wells Cannon Rosannah C. Irvine Jennie B. Knight Nettie D. Bradford Lalene H. Hart B. Y. Alder Elise Lotta Paul Inez K. Allen Baxter Cora L. Bennion Marcia Howells Ida P. Beal Emeline S. Nebeker Mary Connelly Kimball Janet M. Thompson Belle S. Spafford Donna Durrant Sorensen