The Greatest Art By Clara Perman NO career is greater than that of home-making; the greatest art is that of raising a wholesome child. Mothers who know that the success and happiness of their children depend upon their social and emotional adjustment have eagerly sought help on this matter commonly known as behavior and discipline. They have joined clubs where authorities on child psychology lecture on progressive methods in child training, have read books and magazines on this subject, and have gone to open forums for the purpose of discussing it. However, so many criticisms of the modern psychological procedures in child training have come to my attention recently that I am led to think that many mothers have become discouraged, bewildered, and have failed in their attempts to master this greatest of arts. An article entitled "We Scapegoat Mothers," which appeared in the May issue of the Household Magazine, "Unspanked Boy Shows How Dad's Fine Idea Works," a news story recently published in the Denver Post, and a paper read in club not long ago entitled, "Junior Among The Quacks," all tended to show that the modern ideas concerning the rearing of children were held in contempt and announced a determination on the part of mothers to do away with these fanatic psychological theories and return to the old tried and true methods. But it is well for them to be reminded that although we may have some 'trouble with our new automobiles, not one of us has traded in for a horse and buggy. POSSIBLY a great deal of this criticism arising from failure on the part of mothers is because of (1) lack of understanding due to a limited psychological background— danger in a little knowledge, (2) an abrupt change from old methods to the new before its deeper significance is sufficiently assimilated, (3) realizing their inability to use the newer methods they are fearful to use any, (4) the modern idea is found too difficult, requires more patience—thinking. One example of a misunderstanding due to limited knowledge of the psychologist's meaning is that of a mother who was told that the personality pattern of the child was absolutely set at the age of five. When later a minister tried to impress upon her the importance of having her children form habits of church attendance she replied, "Oh, what's the use? What they are going to be is all decided when they are five years old." Another mother having heard that parent-domination will kill the initiative and spontaneity of a child mistook the freedom advocated for indulgence, told me for that reason she was doing nothing at all with her youngest one. It was most evident. These are only two proofs that some parents are jumping at hasty conclusions before weighing them in the balance. If they were taking up the art of painting or of playing the piano what would they do about it? The fearful mother is to be pitied. She realizes that she is not well grounded in the later thought. Having listened to talks about repressions THE GREATEST ART 81, fixations, inhibitions, and complexes, she actually cringes before a disciplinary problem in her home. The parents who hold the new methods in contempt after a few trials because it is so much easier and quicker to take the strap down from the wall can certainly not expect to attain any skill whatsoever in the art of raising children, for skill requires thinking, practice, thoroughness. IT is easy to be seen then that psychologists are being denounced because they are trying to make childhood happier, are attempting to emancipate it from the slavery of domination, are working to develop wholesome integrated personalities. Never do they advocate the theory of letting children grow like weeds. Mothers must ever stand ready to advise, suggest, reason with children by showing them the difference between right and wrong. Domination is far less injurious than absolute indulgence. And if a child's personality pattern has a few flaws there is all the more reason why he should have training in the formation of good habits. Naturally we wish to decrease the number of repressions and inhibitions which will undermine his chances for success, but there are many other factors that enter into a child's life pattern before he is twenty-one so there is no child-training expert who would advise turning him out at the age of five—a finished product. PSYCHOLOGY wants to be helpful, not hopeless. Many adults take up the study of mental hygiene late in life and can do much with themselves by way of self-gov- érnment. A parent's panicky fear will harm a child, so while gaining skill in the more progressive methods it is wise to keen in mind that, after all, we adults were raised by the old methods and although we are determined that our children live in a more progressive generation,. We ourselves are not absolute failures. Old methods are assuredly more successful than no method at all. What will be the reaction of a mere baby who constantly hears a tearful, "I am just simply powerless. I can't do a thing with my child!" I AM reminded of my first horseback ride. When my fiery steed (a livery stable nag about twenty years old) tossed his head and looked back at me with a wild eye I almost fell out of the saddle. Then when he passed an alley which led to a barn where he had once been kept he insisted upon going in; at my attempt to turn him he merely circled round and round knowing full well that I was afraid to pull the reins hard enough to make him go the way I wanted him to go. My ride got neither of us any place. It merely amounted to the satisfaction the horse got out of having his own way. Now children know the exact minute the mother is afraid to pull the reins and they lose no time in making use of this new-found pleasure of being able to pull her around by the nose. I have yet to find the psychologist who does not assert that the child must always be made to feel the steadying hand of authority. Some parents seem to have the idea that the only difference between the older and newer methods lies in the procedure—to spank or not to spank. The news item heretofore mentioned, “Unspanked Boy Shows How Father's Fine Idea Works," was nothing more than a caricature. The reporter quotes the father, a noted psychologist, as saying, "Spanking reflects the loss of control by parents. Diplomacy works 82 much better," then while the reporter proceeded to get father's theories concerning child government young son was snatching trinkets from the Christmas tree and smashing them, throwing blocks around the room, and hurling books at the photographer. Now the news story related only that the parents did not spank. Whether they were using other methods of controlling him such as attempting to divert his interests, substitute another activity as an outlet for his emotions, isolating him, or depriving him of other pleasures was not stated. The readers were undoubtedly left with the impression that all psychologists allow their children to rule the home, wreck the furniture, and be a continual menace to the nerves of any one who perchance might visit them. Because they did not immediately snatch the child up and spank him, because they were willing to sacrifice a few Christmas ornaments in order to substitute a more reasonable approach, the reporter was contemptuous. His method would have been. The easier way, no doubt. Although many spankings have been administered by perfectly controlled parents there is really nothing constrictive about that form of punishment. Tt usually builds up only resentment toward the parent and fails to impress any principle toward right conduct. And spanking is not the most cruel punishment as is commonly assumed. I have seen mothers too tender-hearted to spank who resorted to much more barbaric forms of torture. Making a child sit perfectly still for any length of time or tying him to assure the lack of movement is decidedly more injurious to the nervous system. Humiliation in any form is the least constructive. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE THE positive rather than the negative attitude will aid parents greatly in perfecting this art of raising wholesome children. If all the don'ts were substituted with do's there would be little cause for disciplinary measures. Children must be taught that there are certain laws which if obeyed will bring pleasure and if disobeyed will bring grief. It is wrong to think that we should keep a child in a blissful state of happiness regardless of what he does. He must know that it depends upon his conduct. As soon as he has absorbed and makes use of the knowledge that the most absolute freedom is a matter of the most perfect control his adjustment is assured. That is the freedom which is advocated by the psychologist. He can offer no prescription as a panacea for the social and emotional adjustment of every child. He can give only the underlying principles and mothers must fit them to the individual needs of each child just as she regulates the medicine which a physician prescribes. BEHAVIOR is responding to stimuli. Parents must provide higher motives to prompt conduct. They must have well-formed opinions, definite goals. No child can have respect for parents who are foolish, flighty, not dependable, or who have other interests of more paramount value than caring for his needs. A child must feel support and conifort in the home; this means that parents must be stable, consistent, not stern one day and indulgent the next which will wreck the stability of any child. In a happy home where parents love and respect each other, where children are wanted, and where spiritual values are not slighted we seldom find the mal-adjusted child. The emotionally unstable mother who recently hacked THE GREATEST ART 83 her daughter to death because she begged for pretty clothes is a fitting example of a home where higher values have never been considered. A girl who has been well grounded in principles of right conduct will not beg for pretty clothes from a mother who is living on ten dollars a month from a relief fund. O art can be perfected unless the apprentice is willing to devote much of his time to it. Parents should take time to explain directions which are often puzzling, their reasons which are not always clear, their criticisms of the child's actions which are not always understood. This time taken now will repay them a thousand fold in interest on the principle being deposited, for good habits are much more easily formed in babyhood than later if bad habits must first be broken. (CHILDREN learn self-control through the self-control of their parents. A maxim often given teachers will apply as well to parents— "Until one has learned to control himself he cannot expect to control others." Temper tantrums can, as a rule, be ignored. Let the child see that he accomplishes nothing when he resorts to them which will prove to him eventually that it is a silly indulgence. Avoid emotional tension, attempts to make him angry or jealous so that you may laugh at his outbursts. I have seen children teased by their parents even to the point of telling them untruths so that the children never quite knew when to expect truth and when to expect horseplay. This will never teach them how to face situations frankly which should be one of the first steps in the child's development. A child often becomes defiant, destructive, discourteous, or irritable because he is unhappy. Prolonged unhappiness is dangerous. It is well to ferret out the cause and build up in him a means of averting it. Most of our unhappiness is brought on by ourselves. If a child is laughed at when he voices a serious opinion he will withdraw, not attempt to become independent in solving his problems. Encourage his opinions, respect them as you guide them. In this way you will build up selfreliance. IF the child is taught co-operation in the home he will not find cooperation difficult when his circle in society widens. Freedom? Yes —but always with respect to the rights of others. Noise? Of course. Mothers and teachers are two classes of women who can't have nerves that revolt against noise—and by that I mean a happy healthy noise. Never-the-less in the home there should be no noise when guests come, when some one is asleep or ill. Very small children are amenable to reason and willingly try to do their part. Very few children are not eager for responsibility unless it is killed by over-indulgent parents. All of us must "pay our way" through life. It is well to learn this early. Saving a child from all responsibility, making him despise healthy labor in order that he may have memories of a pleasant childhood may be the means of leaving him with nothing but pleasant memories when he becomes an adult. PERSISTENCE is one of the chief traits to be developed. It has been the means of bringing success to the person who would not rank high on the mental scale. A combining form of intellect and persistence makes up the world's greatest leaders. Although we cannot  change the inherited nerve system of any child, parents can do much in the way of encouraging persistent effort. Concentrated interest is often a matter of early habit formation. Sincere and independent effort should always be praised; avoid demanding a too difficult task, either in work or in play, or presenting too many interests at one time as crayolas for drawing, blocks for building, games, and books. He will flit from one to the other and may not complete any one task that he undertakes. Concentration may be helped by having him think out answers to questions. So often a slipshod "I dunno" suffices. And I don't mean tiring children to death with endless questions or making concentration a trial of endurance— it can all be done in a spirit of fun. Let them enter into the conversations and discussions, praise good ideas, it will help them to get the listening habit as well as the thinking habit. They will be gathering a store of information which they can give out, and will also develop a keener interest in what is going on about them. An interesting personality is in the making. Sportsmanship should be taught from the beginning. It is so easy for mother, father, big brother and sister to let baby win in all the games and races, to let him have first turn or a turn any time he pleases. We do this at first, of course, to build up his confidence—then gradually he should learn to take his turn as well as defeat with a smile as we do. Let baby share with parents and big brothers, and sisters just as they share with him. If a child learns to share nobly, to be considerate and courteous in the home there need be no fear that his adjustment to society will be a failure. All the effort and time spent in teaching the child higher values will result in a poise and confidence that mark well a mother's skill in the greatest art.