All: We will do it, mother. How Mother Does It By Bergeta Williams (A peep into the Dean home at the close of the day.) The scene is the dining room of the Dean home. A pleasant, cheerful room, with buffet and easy chairs, As the curtain rises, Mrs. Dean is busy setting the table for the evening meal. She hums softly as she works, twice she goes to the window and looks out into the fast gathering dusk. Mrs. D.: (agitatedly) It's almost dark and the children not home from primary yet. I do wish they would hurry; (glances up at clock) only five thirty, it gets dark so early these winter evenings. (She turns on the light and resumes her work at the table, that finished she turns toward the kitchen, when an outer door opens and Madge, a girl of about seventeen, enters. She is dressed in a pretty wool dress and jacket and carries an armful of books, which she drops onto a nearby table.) Madge: Bus was late again, I wish we could get home early once in a while. Did you get my dress finished? Mrs. D.: Yes, all pressed and everything. Madge: Gee, ma, you're a peach, (Kisses her on both cheeks. ) Mrs. D.: Where's Ted? Madge: Talking football with El. Mer, he'll be here in a minute. Is dad home yet? Mrs. D.: No, but he'll be here any minute now. Madge: Have I got time for a bath before supper? I'm simply fagged. (starts for stairs without waiting for an answer) Mom, guess who dated me for the dance tonight? Mrs. D.: Oh, Bob, I guess. Madge: Harold Eastman, and am I thrilled! (she dashes up the stairs) Mrs. D.: (softly) My little girl, almost a woman. (hurries into kitchen) The door opens to admit Ted, a good looking youth of about fifteen. He drops his books onto the table beside Madge's, and starts toward the kitchen, calling. Ted: Oh, ma, what have we got for supper? I'm starved. Mrs. D.: (enters with a plate of cake) Hello, son, how's everything tonight? Ted: Swell. Can I have a piece of cake? (tries to take a piece, but she pushes him playfully away) Mrs, D,; Now, son, you wait for  supper; you know cake isn't good for you on an empty stomach. Ted: Anything would be good for a stomach as empty as mine. Just a bite, you don't realize how hungry I get. (tries again to take a piece, but she eludes him and places cake on table) Mrs. D.: You can taste the tester, I tried out a new recipe that I saw in the "Relief Society Magazine." Ted: Well, if it's as good as it looks, T'll eat my share. Oh, by the way, those were sure swell sandwiches you sent for lunch today. Mrs. D.: Were they good? I know how tiresome the same old lunches are every day, so I like to surprise you once in a while with something different. I knew I had seen some snappy suggestions for school lunches in the Relief Society Magazine, so I tried them this morning, and this cake recipe sounded so good I just had to try it, too. Ted: Boy, I hope my wife can cook, if I ever get one. (they go out laughing but return immediately with food which they place on table) There, this supper looks almost good enough to eat. Mrs. D.: Now, if father and the children would only come. (a noise is heard outside) Maybe that's them now. (Ted goes out into kitchen, Mrs. D. Starts toward outer door but before she reaches it, Harry Dean, a kindly man of about forty, and two children, Tom, ten, and Isabelle, eight, enter.) Harry: (kissing Mrs. Dean) How's my girl? Mrs. D.: All right. I'm glad you remembered to call for the children. (to children) Did you have a good primary? Isabelle: Lovely! We have a new teacher, I like her. Mrs. D.: (to Harry) How did things go at the office? (takes his hat) Supper's all ready. You children run and wash quickly. Harry: Everything was A-1 today, Mary, but I'm always glad to get home to a warm supper, an easy chair and—you. Mrs. D.: No blarney, now. (they go out together. Ted comes in and arranges chairs at table. Isabelle and Tom dash in and sit at table almost upsetting each other.) Isabelle: Look, Tom, chocolate cake for supper. (Tom attempts to take a piece) Ted: Say, won't you kids ever learn anything? Get up from there and wait until the rest get here—and let that cake alone. (tries to crack Tom's fingers with fork but Tom jumps back) Tom: Well, good gosh, I'm hungry. Mrs. D.: (In doorway) Now, boys, please be quiet, your father is tired. Isn't Madge down yet? Isabelle: Vl get her. (runs to foot of stairs and calls) Madge, oh, Madge, we're ready to eat. Madge: Coming. Mr. D. Enters and they take their places at the table. Madge: (comes down the stairs dressed for the dance, she goes to Mr. D. And kisses him on the forehead, then stands back for inspection) How do I look, daddy? Harry: Stunning, my dear, but when did we start diessing up for supper. Madge: (takes her place) What night is this? Harry: Friday the seventh. Oh, a dance, well, that's a very pretty dress you have. Madge: Mother made it, I just love it. Harry: Isabelle, you return thanks. HOW MOTHER DOES IT 93 (they bow their heads and are silent a moment) Tom: (raising his head first) Please pass the beans. Madge: What did you get on that English test, Ted? Ted: Oh, why bring that up? Madge: My, but I have a lot of work 'this week-end. I have to write a theme and a book report and a dozen other things all for Monday. That geometry is worse than a Chinese puzzle. Ted: Pooh! That's easy, write me a theme and I'll help you with geometry. Madge: That's a go. Now, answer this one—name the ten most important women of the last one hundred years. Ted: I'll take the last ten years— Ethel Barrymore, Greta Garbo, May West, Norma Madge: I didn't say movie actresses —silly. Isabelle: Mamma, please spread my bread, this butter is hard. Mrs. D.: (buttering bread) I believe I can help you with that one, Madge. Madge: Can you, mom, that's swell, where did you find 'em? Mrs. D.: Well, I always squeeze out a little time to read the Relief Society Magazine, if I don't read anything else, and just this afternoon I noticed a little item that gave the names of the twelve most important women in the last century. Madge: Does that take a load off my mind! Harry: Tom, don't make so much noise with that soup. Isabelle: I am glad I was here yesterday when you had the Relief Society teachers; cur Primary lesson was on the beatitudes, and I knew a lot about it after listening to the lesson they gave you. Ted: Gee, ma, I wish that favorite magazine of yours would print some hot stuff on American Literature, so you could help me once in a while. Mrs. D.: Well, our literary lessons are so excellent that maybe I will be able to help you some. (There is a knock, Madge goes to the door and opens it.) Madge: How do you do, Mrs. Leads, come in. Mrs. L.: Good evening, everybody. All: Good evening, Mrs. Leads. (Mr. And Mrs. D. Rise) Mrs. D.: Won't you have some supper with us? Mrs. L.: Oh, no, thank you, keep your chairs, (Mr. D. Indicates a chair and she sits) I am sending my orders for the Magazine in the morning and I wondered if you wanted to renew your subscription? Ted: Oh, you don't have to ask mother that, Mrs. Leads, she just couldn't live without that magazine. Mrs. D.: Well, it does seem almost indispensable. Isabelle: Shall I get your bank? (Mrs. D. Nods, Isabelle runs into bedroom and returns with paper bank) I wonder how much money you have? Mrs. L.: Why, how unique! Mrs. D.: Well, it's so hard to get that much money all at once that I made this little bank. It is always in plain sight on my dresser so if Harry has an extra quarter he drops it in, and even the children surprise me by adding a penny once in a while. (she opens the bank and counts the money, the family are interested spectators) Three dollars. (she holds up a one dollar bill) Harry, you must have put this in. Harry: Maybe I did.  Mrs. D.: Here is the dollar for the magazine, and I will pay my fifty cent membership now, too. Mrs. L.: Oh, thank you, Mrs. Dean, I am going to tell all of the sisters about your bank, it is surely a splendid idea. I must be going now as I have several others I would like to see before I send that order off. (at the door) Good-bye. All: Good-bye. Mrs. D.: Call again, Mrs. Leads. (exit Mrs, Leads) Madge: Alice is going to fix my hair, may I run over there now? I won't be long. Mrs. D.: Why, yes. It's Tom's and Isabelle's turn to wash dishes. (Madge goes) Tom: Ah, heck, I was in hopes you'd forget. Isabelle: Me, wash. (they begin clearing the table) Ted: Are my pants pressed, ma? Mrs, D.: Yes, I Jaid them out on your bed. Ted: (goes to Mrs. D. And puts his arm around her) Say, Dad, we just couldn't get along without this efficient, little old lady, could we? Harry: Well, hardly. She's just about as indispensable to us, as that much mentioned magazine is to her.