Emcee Little Moments of Eternity WHAT SHALL WE DO WITH THEM? By Lella Marler Hoggan VALENTINES Take Time for Love "Oh, the world is full of beauty When the heart is full of love.” –Mrs. M.W. Hackleton OLD MAN WINTER goes grumbling through the town, rattling the windows, whistling through the keyhole and tossing chilly wreaths of snow at all the passers-by. But who cares for Old Man Winter when Dan Cupid is here, his quiver full of love-tipped shafts, as he sets out to win the heart of the world. A flutter of lace-trimmed, heart - bound valentines, and a flourish of his magic bow and darts bring lovers young and cld, to a happy surrender. This achieved, the little god of love curls up on a soft cushion before the fire and falls asleep. In some homes the warmth of his gentle presence permeates the whole year, bringing messages of love and kindly deeds to cheer and bless the members of the household; valentines of action, of wholehearted loveliness, that lift a burden of woe from the heart of humanity and sweeten and ennoble life. Cupid's dimpled feet have long since made a path of love that leads straight to happiness. It is easy to find for it is the beaten highway of the heart. There are guide posts, too, to hold one to the course: Understanding Hearts, Trusting Confidences, Abiding Faith, Rose-Colored  Romances and Family Traditions. The stop signs at irregular intervals, are for little silent prayers and expressions of appreciation. At the wayside inn one may loiter awhile and refresh oneself with stories and rhymes, songs and pictures and bits of laughter. All along the way there are trusting blue skies, broad meadows of contentment, laughing brooks and sweet scented blossoms. The passport to this delightful trip is Loving Service, and at the close of the journey one registers in the substantial book of Achievement. The blazed trail of the little god of love leads to gladness today and tender memories tomorrow, and happy are they who have found it and who keep straight to its course. There are other paths that one may follow, aye, that some do follow; paths crooked and broken, that lead to disappointment and regret, and sometimes to despair. From the crossroads one may look back and see the lost joys and vanished dreams, that a little time and patience could have saved. WHICH road have we chosen to travel through the coming year? Is the little god of love guarding our hearth stone? Will his gentle presence direct us to the highway of happiness? The lovely graces that sweeten life cost so little, and yet bring such rich returns. "To be polite is to do and say The kindest things in the kindest way." Babies thrive on love, half-grown boys hunger for a word of approval, and sweet young girls just have to have a confidant. Loving words lighten father's heavy burden, and little tokens of affection brighten the weary hours of Mother's service. Grandfather and Grandmother rejoice in knowing that they are not outgrown. "And all the world loves a lover." Dr. Frank Crane said, "In love lies our common divinity." THE long ago child shared with his parents in what Tolstoy called "bread labor." He helped to produce the food as well as to prepare it for the table. Busy parents of today spend less time with their children. Are we forgetting that what brings gladness today may be outgrown tomorrow? Shall we awaken some morning to the realization that Betty has outgrown her dolls and doesn't need the blue silk doll dress and the little cradle quilt she has longed for these many years; and that Dick's Indian war bonnet that lies unfinished in the old chest has lost its thrill for a young fellow who is beginning to think about dates with his best girl friend? Are we so busy that we can not find time for the lovely confidences with our children that would bring our lives closely together? Are we going to let some other person take our place in their hearts? Some person whose influence may be less wholesome than ours would have been, had we only claimed our beautiful privilege. What is sadder to recall than the tears of disappointed youth, unless it is the lament of a broken-hearted mother who weeps, when it is too late, that she "Did not kiss more oft and tenderly The little child that brought her only good." "THE happiest mothers never permit themselves to grow old. Helen was sure she was too busy to fix a play dinner for Mollie, besides, there was nothing to fix. But when Grandmother’s LITTLE MOMENTS OF ETERNITY 87 twinkling eyes looked into Mollie's little crestfallen face, she grasped the situation at a glance, for Grandmother, as she often remarked, "had not raised eight children for nothing." "Why, Helen dear," she laughed, "you're too grown up. Now persons like Mollie and me, who are in their perpetual childhood, know very well that one apple, two soda crackers and a glass of milk make a perfectly. Sumptuous banquet, especially when one has a pink candle and a green napkin left from the birthday party." WHOLESOME stories, gay little songs and hapnv jokes are as oil on troubled waters. The repetition of rhymes and jingles, each child quoting in turn, is a delightful pastime, and can be carried on right along with one's work. The game of Traveling gives quiet fun and laughter. One person goes on an imaginary journey, and the others guess where he is and what he is doing. "You are at the North Pole in Santa Claus' toy shop, "guesses Nellie."' "You are riding down the Nile on a crocodile's back," suggests Jack. "You are sailing around the world," ventures Ruth. While all the time the traveler is quietly resting under the lid of the Queen's sugar bow]. And so the fun goes on and tired children forget to be fretful. There are many little traditions that promote the happiness of children. What child is not delighted to hang his stocking by the tree on Christmas eve, and to set a bowl for the shakings of Santa Claus' bag on New Year's eve? When a child has done a kind deed or performed a difficult task, one wise teacher suggests that the Good Fairy reward him by leaving a gift in his shoe or under his pillow. In some homes the Jolly Goblins leave gifts on the table on Hallowe'en night; valentines are tucked under the door and candy hearts under the dishes, on the morning of Valentine's Day. And on April the first, gingerbread boys are found hiding under the overturned plates. Children who bravely submit to having a tooth extracted, may put the tooth in an envelope under their pillow, and they are rewarded the next morning by finding a coin in the envelope. Lovely letters telling children that they are appreciated, that they have accomplished creditable tasks and that their life is really very much worth while, give them courage and determination to succeed. Let us "Build a little fence of trust around today Fill the space with loving work and therein stay." No child wants to confess that he is afraid or that he has failed or done wrong. It is not easy for any person, young or old, to admit that he has weaknesses. But if such condition exists, it is to the eternal betterment of the child if he can talk the matter over freely and confidentially with one of his parents, whose loving sympathy will help him to make matters right and to reestablish his self-respect and self-confidence. It is of greater value to a young person to inspire him with a supreme faith in the ultimate purpose of life, and confidence in his superior worth. Than to present him with a gift of gold. While little Dan Cupid guards the heart of the home, the firelight playing across his sunny curls, let us rest in the security of his gentle presence. And let us make a solemn promise  to ourselves that no day shall pass by in which we do not perform some loving service for the uplift. Every road is a bright road When love is by your side. And poverty seems riches The whole world might divide And heaven to earth draws nearer When love is by your side.”—Frank L.