Stockton THE PRICELESS GIFT By Viola Stone Card Dear Lord, if in thy gracious hand Thou hast a gift for me, Grant me not wealth of treasures, rare, Nor ease, nor luxury, Nor fame, that fragile, tinsel toy That only brings synthetic joy; All these are vain; they pass away— Mere shadows of the real; And so, my gracious Lord, I pray— Before thy throne I kneel— And humbly plead for Wisdom's Light, A lamp to make my pathway bright; — If only just a tiny spark Of thy eternal Flame, To guide me safely through the dark And glorify my name Among the blessed Sanctified— Redeemed Ones for whom Christ died. Loving service for the uplift and the happiness of others. "Every storm bends rain-bows Over the world so wide, And poverty seems riches The whole world might divide, When love is by your side." —Frank L. Stockton. Relief Society Playlet on the New Testament By Alberta Stake Board Characters: Father, Mother, Rex, aged 12 years; Grace, aged 14 years; John, aged 8 years; May, aged 6 years. Mother, father and children seated as a family group. Father and mother appear to have been discussing the Relief Society project. Father: But I don't see where an outline like this is going to be much help in studying the New Testament. If I had anything to do with outlining a study course I would have them read the whole book. Mother: But, father, you don't seem to know just what is wanted. The General Board of Relief Society asked us to get a general outline of the New Testament discussed in every home now and the reading of the books may come later. Word has been brought back home from the mission field that our boys and girls know very little about the Bible when they enter their field of labor. Sometimes the missionaries use weeks of their valuable time learning some of the fundamental things that they should have known before leaving home. Not long ago one returned missionary told me that before entering the mission field he knew nothing of the Ten Commandments, Christ's Sermon on the Mount or even a passage of scripture. He could not repeat the names of the books of the Bible and many of us here at home are in the same predicament. John: How many books are there in the New Testament? Grace: About thirty, aren't there, y mother? I know the Old Testament has thirty-nine books. Rex: I don't think that's right, Grace. I know of a good way to remember the number of books in the New Testament. John: Tell us, Rex, so we'll all know. Rex: There are three letters in "New," (spells n-e-w) and nine letters in Testament (spells t-e-st-a-m-e-n-t). Three times nine are twenty-seven. Father: Fine idea. Learn that? Rex: Mother and I have been figuring it out. Mother: We not only want to know how many books there are in the New Testament but should also know just a little of what each book contains. John; My teacher wants us to read the story of the Life of Christ and I don't know where to find it in the Bible. Mother: Daddy will show you if you would like him to. Father: You see, the Life of Christ is told in the first four books of the New Testament. Rex: Father, I know what those books are. Father: Fine. Let's hear you repeat the first four books. Rex: (repeats) Matthew, Mark, Luke and John. Father: Very well. There are more of the things that Jesus taught in the Book of Matthew than any other book of the New Testament. What are a few of the teachings of Matthew, Grace? (Grace then repeats the Beatitudes.) Where did you  Father: Now, there is another difference between the writings of Matthew and the writings of Mark which helps us distinguish between them. Matthew contains Christ's teachings and Mark tells of the miracles he performed. Rex, you may tell us of the miracle of the feeding of the five thousand recorded in Mark, 6th Chapter, commencing with the 30th verse. (Rex then repeats the story of the miracle.) John: (who has the Bible, looking at it) Mother, I never knew until now where the story of the Pradigal Son was. It makes me feel like I can forgive everyone when I read that beautiful story. Mother: There always was a moral in all of the parables of the Savior, John. But we are forgetting one of the most important things in our discussion. We are asked by our Relief Society president to have the story of the birth of Christ told in every home and we would appreciate having you tell us the story of His birth, John. (John tells the story contained in Matthew, 2nd chapter, Ist to 20th verses.) Father: You may learn the names of the books and have your stories but give me a good sermon. Now take Paul, for instance, he tells us Mother: Yes, I know it is all told in Acts, Romans, Ist and 2nd Corinthians, Galatians, Ephesians, Philippians, Colossians, lst and 2nd Thessalonians, lst and 2nd Timothy, Titus, Philemon. Father, you know I dare not let you get started on Paul's teachings for you don't know where to quit. (laughs) Father: I only wanted to speak of the wonderful personality of Christ when he had reached his manhood and for us not to forget what he did for the world as well as the example he set us. Rex: (standing and throwing back his shoulders) When I grow to be a man I am going to be a Bishop. Mother: (surprised) Why, Rex, whatever do you mean? Rex: When our bishop was talking to us boys one day he turned over in his Bible like this (takes Bible and hunts around) and told us what a Bishop has to do and be. Father: Son, did you say your bishop found that in the Bible? Rex: Yes, father, it is there. Father: Well, son, I guess you will have to find it. I can't. Rex: (takes Bible and turns quickly to lst Timothy, 3rd Chapter, lst Verse. Places book before father and reads) "If a man desireth the office of a bishop he desireth the good work," and in Titus, lst Chapter and 7th Verse it says, "For a bishop must be blameless as the steward of God, not selfwilled, not soon angered, not given to wind, no striker, not given to filthy lucre." Father: Good. Now grow up fast my boy. (pats him on the shoulder) Nothing would please me better than to some day see you made a bishop. May: (who has been holding a doll, rises up) Don't they say anything in the Bible about our prayers, Daddy? Father: What do you know about that? I thought my little girl was only thinking about her doll. It is one of the greatest teachings of Christ. I wonder if my little girl could say the Lord's Prayer as contained in the New Testament. (The little girl repeats the Lord's Prayer as found in Matthew, 6th chapter, 9-13 verse.) RELIEF SOCIETY PLAYET ON THE NEW TESTAMENT 91 Father: We cannot get very far without faith and prayer in this life. Grace: I read a most remarkable story from the Bible on faith and prayers the other day, mother. Would you like me to relate it? (Grace then relates story, Queen Esther.) Father: A great understanding has come to me, mother, and I am in hearty accord with you on this project. I did not realize what it would mean to a family to learn the books of the Bible and what they contain and where to turn to things when needed. I find I will have to brush up myself. Grace: Let's see who can be first to learn the project. Mother: I would like our family to be first to report 100%.