National Council of Women
By President Louise Y. Robison
THE officers of the National Council of Women are to be congratulated upon the choice of topics programmed for the Forum, which was held under their auspices in New York City, December 2-3, 1936. The theme: "A 1937 Forecast for Better Living—based upon The Contribution of Women in American Life." Our gracious President, Mrs. Ruth Haller Ottaway, presided, and in her keynote address, made the following prophetic statement: "The concerted action of the women of the United States and the world is both possible and probable. The National Council, without regimentation, by only presenting for consideration to national organizations the same project at the same time, can develop a climate of opinion, a crystallization of conviction, which will change the entire national and international life."
Every subject discussed was vital and of deep interest to women. It placed home-making among the professions, and emphasized the need for better preparation for parenthood. Dr. Valeria H. Parker, discussing this subject said, "The greatest adventure in life is for a man and a woman to live together happily and helpfully, and rear a wholesome family."
Mr. Ralph Barsodi advanced the theory that women in the home contribute the sum of $36,000,000,000.00 annually through the service they render and the articles they produce. Women who successfully make homes, rear and teach children, have the most important profession.
There was launched a three year educational program for more intelligent spending of our 1937 dollar, using the slogan, "Know what you want, Buy what you ask for." We shall hear more of this helpful Consumer's program.
An appeal was made for women to promote an educational campaign against cancer, which, it was claimed, was the cause of one hundred fifty thousand deaths annually.
The effect of radio and moving pictures on children and young people, was stressed. Eighty-five million people attend motion pictures weekly, twenty-one million of this number are under eighteen years of age. Women were urged to cooperate in having only helpful programs. It is estimated that ninety million people listened to high grade music during six months. Producers of radio and motion picture programs were in attendance and pledged support of their companies in any endeavor to elevate their production.
The delightful talks on music, books and art will long be remembered. Leon Dabo said, "Art is not a picture. Art is something one feels—that love of the beautiful—that love of life—expressing the something in one's heart."
Miss Lena Madesin Phillips, chairman of the Committee on the Economic Status of Women, urged the women in the home to assume some of the responsibility for seeing that women who work for a living get decent wages.
DR. WILLIAM J. COX made an urgent appeal for woman's influence in curtailing automobile acci-
 
dents. After giving appalling statistics he said, "When you see a group of six or seven children, try to realize that one out of this number will be killed or maimed for life unless something is done to check the terrible slaughter. Education of public is needed, not in better driving, but popularizing the enforcement of laws. In Rhode Island there was a 20% decrease of deaths, although travel increased 100%."
Speaking on the Public Health program, Dr. Haven Emerson summed up the sentiment of the Forum when he said: "We cannot achieve any progress by authority or law. People cannot be forced. We must patiently and constantly stress education."
The closing session was a World Peace dinner, at which a number of notable people spoke. We were charmed with Gladys Swarthout, Metropolitan Opera and motion picture star. There were delightful folk songs, and a stirring address on Peace by Estelle M. Sternberger. It was the end of two perfect days. From the time Mr. Augustus Zanzig opened the first session with the audience singing folk songs, until good-byes were said to new and old friends, every moment was inspirational and educational.