Vol. XXIV FEBRUARY, 1937 No. 2
Editorials
Abraham Lincoln
THE people of the United States show increased appreciation and love with each passing year for Abraham Lincoln, the Great Emancipator. His integrity, his loving kindness, his unswerving devotion to the right, his charity toward all, his happiness in bringing hope to the discouraged and succor to the condemned are never-failing sources of uplift to those who read the life of this man who faced criticism unflinchingly, who knew the weight of tremendous responsibilities and who never wavered in his allegiance to right. Although he was a "man of sorrows and acquainted with grief," his sense of humor carried him through many a dark valley and through many a trying situation. His stories never lose their savor. At one time he said, "They say I tell a great many stories. I reckon I do, but I have found in the course of a long experience that common people, take them as they run, are more easily influenced and informed through the medium of a broad illustration than in any other way, and as to what the hypercritical few may think, I don't care."
HE could read people very accurately. He was ever ready to grant the petition of the humble and sincere, but turned aside from the haughty and arrogant. At one time a woman in an imperious mood said, "Mr. President, you must give me a colonel's commission for my son. Sir, I demand it, not as a favor but as a right. Sir, my grandfather fought at Lexington. Sir, my uncle was the only man who did not run away at Bladensburg. Sir, my father fought at New Orleans and my husband was killed at Monterey." "I guess, madam," Lincoln replied dryly, "your family has done enough for the country. It is time to give somebody else a chance."
EDITORIALS 111
His heart was full of tenderness for the soldiers whether they fought for or against the Union. Only one week before his assassination President Lincoln visited the army of the Potomac at City Point, Virginia. Dr. Jerome Walker relates that he was an agent of the United States Sanitary Commission attached to the 9th corps hospital at that time. Although he was only 19, he was assigned the duty of conducting the President through his department of the hospital system. He says, "As we went from tent to tent I could not but note his gentleness, his friendly greetings to the sick and wounded, his quiet humor as he drew comparisons between himself and the very tall and very short men with whom he came in contact. Finally we came to the wards occupied by sick and wounded Southern prisoners. With feeling of patriotic duty I said, 'Mr. President, you won't want to go in there; they are only rebels.' He gently put his hand on my shoulder, 'You mean Confederates.' I noticed that he was just as kind in his handshake, just as hearty in his interest for the welfare of these men as when he was among our own soldiers. As we went to headquarters, the President urged upon me the importance of caring for them as faithfully as I should for our own sick and wounded."
AGAIN and again did he incur the wrath of military leaders by pardoning those condemned to death. At one time an old man came to the White House to say that his son, who was in General Butler's command, would be shot on a certain day unless the President in his mercy would forgive the offense. Lincoln was sorry but felt he could do nothing, for just yesterday he had received this telegram from Butler: "I pray you not to interfere with the courts-martial of the army. You will destroy all discipline among our soldiers." After Lincoln saw his visitor's grief, he exclaimed, "By jings, Butler or no Butler, here goes," and wrote his order: "Job Smith is not to be shot until further orders from me. A Lincoln." The old man as he read this was disappointed. He had come for a pardon. The President kindly said to him, "My old friend, you are not very well acquainted with me. If your son never looks on death till further orders come from me to shoot him, he will live to be a great deal older than Methuselah."
At one time he said to Speaker Colfax, "It makes me feel rested after a hard day's work if I can find some good excuse for saving a man's life, and I go to bed happy as I think how joyous the signing of my name will make him and his family and his friends."
HE was unusually fond of children. He liked to have them near him. He understood them as few men could and could sympathize with their restless activity. The Reverend Mr. Alcott relates that at one time he saw Lincoln coming away from church very early. Tad was slung across his left arm like a pair of saddle bags. Mr. Lincoln strode along with long and deliberate steps toward home. On one of the street corners he encountered a group of his fellow townsmen. He anticipated the question which the group was about to ask and taking his figure of speech from practices with which the group was familiar he said, "Gentlemen, I entered this colt, but he kicked around so I had to withdraw him."
WHILE criticism must have hurt him, because he was very sensitive, yet he never let it interfere
 
with his work, neither did he hold hard feelings against the ones who criticised him. He felt that if he did the very best he could, it did not much matter whether people understood or not. At one time President Lincoln was talking to an officer about an attack made on him for a certain alleged blunder. The matter involved had come directly under the observation of the one to whom he was talking and this man who had official evidence completely refuting the conclusions of the one who attacked the President, said, "Might it not be well for me to set RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE this matter right in a letter to some paper stating the facts as they actually transpired?" "Oh no," replied the President, "At least not now. If I were to try to read, much less to answer, all the attacks made on me, this shop might as well be closed for any other business. I do the very best I know how?the very best I can; and I mean to keep doing so until the end. If the end brings me out all right, what is said against me won't amount to anything. If the end brings me out wrong, ten angels swearing I was right would make no difference."