BY L. M. HEWLINGS.

Dear loved one, I am sitting in the warm half-open door,
Sunshine falls in golden showers around me on the floor,
Gay-birds sweet songs are singing and the warm breeze
	floating by,

Whispers winter is departing, glad spring is drawing nigh.
Oh! I do not grieve that winter is fleeing fast away,
No, spring is ever welcome, with her soft and tuneful lay,
The streamlets gushing music, the cool, green lawn and
	bower,
Bring to my soul a feeling of deeply thrilling power.
Bright beauteous tinted fairy! in smiles and softness
	dressed,
Haste thou and do not tarry, come earth's stricken ones to
	bless;
There's magic in thy sunshine, healing in each soft-breathed
	air,
Surely thou hast power to soothe all sorrow but despair!
My thoughts they will go roaming, they are turning unto
	thee.
And my heart is sadly yearning thy smile again to see,
For a message from thy hand I have looked the winter
	long,
But no spell has silence broken, in sunshine or in storm.
Thro' the whole long flight of days, have no odds or ends
	of time,
Been found to pen a letter in plain prose or mystic rhyme'
Breathing of joy or sadness, as thy days might prove to be,
Yet with sweet assurance blended of love and truth to me?
Now the sunlight soft and golden, is fading from the floor,
And twilight shadows gather around the open door,
Thro' the dim and shadowy past I'm roaming fancy free,
And voices seem to whisper softly loving words to me.
Blest hope and trust, are mine again, guardians of the way,
My sky is bright with love and joy, I see no evil day,
No shadows of a coming gloom around my spirit fall,
Life’s sweetest flowers gaily bloom—their light is over all.
I dream not now of broken ties, of loved ones scatter'd
	wide,
A group of loving ones are near—we're roamingside by
	side,	
Radiant smiles and tender words breathe music in my heart,
No cold farewells, no sad adieus, no sighing "we must
	part."
Oh! 'tis sweet to travel back e'en in thought to days of
	youth,
Gather up the sunny ways, of pure unsullied truth,
Fresh garlands of that hopeful time, when gladness would
	hold sway,
In our life's bright dewy morning; the green and budding
	May!
Now the shadows of the twilight have deepen'd into night,
The last bright golden glimpse of day has faded far from
	sight.
And the silver moon is smiling after o'er land and waves,
With holy luster gilding many quiet lonely graves.
And some there are of our loved ones, on whom her light
	is shed.
The dust of which our wand'ring feet on earth may never
	tread.
But this truth do not forget, tho' our homes apart be wide,
No earthly barriers yet could true loving hearts divide.
Fond souls together may commune tho' water broad and
	deep,
Vast rolling prairies stretch between and mountains high
	and steep.


