AFTER SIXTY YEARS.

	The General Conference of the Church which
convened on the 6th of April 1890, was the
sixtieth Annual Conference and marks an event-
ful period in the age of the Church, three score,
six decades.  There are probably only a very few
people now living who were baptized into this
Church or who even knew of its origin in the year
1830.  The writer does not even know of one now
living though in all probability there may be some.
It is a long time to look back upon and "a mar-
velous work and a wonder" has been performed 
during this period of the history of the world.
The Latter-day Saints perfectly understand that
the most stupendous part of the work remains yet
to be performed.  The foundation stones have
been laid by those great men who have passed
away; only a few of those associated with Joseph
the Prophet yet live.  One very remarkable man
who was connected with this work at a very early
period, Wilford Woodruff for several years Presi-
dent of the Quorum of the Twelve Apostles, and
now the President of the Church, whose ac-
quaintance with Joseph Smith probably dates
farther back than that of any other man now liv-
ing.
	This wonderful work is progressing notwith-
standing all the opposition, and persecution
brought to bear against it, the Church has in-
creased in numbers and in prosperity, flourished
and grown strong.
	During the Conference held this month which
lasted three days many thousands of people were
in regular attendance, morning and afternoon, and
thrilling discourses were delivered by the vener-
able President Wilford Woodruff and Pres. Geo.
Q. Cannon, of the First Presidency and by
Apostle Lorenzo Snow President of the Quorum
of the Twelve, also Apostle F. D. Richards
Church Historian, and nearly every member of
the entire Quorum.  Other Elders were also 
called upon to speak from time to time and the
Conference throughout was one of great import.
It certainly cannot be said after such an assem-
bling of the people from all quarters, that "Mor-
monism" is dying out, or the faith of the people
waxing cold.  On the contrary there was positive
proof furnished that Zion is growing, and all the
efforts of its enemies are fruitless.  Nothing can
stay its progress for it is not man's work, neither
can man overthrow it.  It is the little stone cut
out of the mountain without hands, and it will
roll forth and fill the whole earth and no power
can hinder it. So after sixty years we find this
magnificent structure healthy, strong and vigorous
in all the parts and branches thereof, spreading
itself afar among the nations, on the continents 
and the islands of the sea, and the Elders clothed
with the holy priesthood going out and proclaiming
gald tidings to those who sit in darkness, and


are afar off, warning them of dangers and calami-
ties and exhorting them to be upon the watch
tower and to prepare for the day of the coming of
the Lord.


