R. S. GENERAL CONFERENCE.

	The first Annual Conference of the Relief
Society of all the Stakes of Zion, was held in
the Salt Lake Assembly Hall in this City on
Monday, April 7, 1890 commencing at 10 a. m.
Mrs. Zina D. H. Young presiding. On the


[Column 1]

stand with her were her Counselors Mrs. J. S.
Richards and Mrs. B. W. Smith, the Secretary
Mrs. S. M. Kimball, Treasurer Mrs. M. I.
Horne also the Cor Sec'y. Mrs. E. B. Wells and
Assistant Sec'y., Dr. R. B. Pratt. Presidents
of R. S. of the several Stakes of Zion were
seated in one of the stands.
	There was a large congregation of women with
a few men scattered here and there, Confer-
ence opened by singing,

	"Praise to the man who communed with Jehovah."

	Prayer was offered by Mrs. M. I. Horne,
continued by singing,

	"Now let us rejoice in the day of salvation."

	Minutes of the forenoon of last semi annual
Conference were read and approved. Pres.
Zina Young welcomed the congregation in her
most happy manner, said we were living in a
peculiar time, yet never felt better, realized the
beginning of the end was near at hand; felt so
anxious concerning the daughters of Zion, that
she would give her life, if it would save them
from the many snares and temptations sur-
rounding them at the present time. Asked
the sisters in the most earnest manner if any
of them had hard feelings towards another;
she would wait a few moments to give them
time for reflection;—sisters if you have hard
feelings waive them, put them away. It is our
duty to train the children that they may be
prepared for the work they will have to do
"We sorrow because of persecution, but God
reigns and all things will work together for
good for those that serve Him. He also rules
the elements, and the calamities that are now
coming have been predicted by His servants,
and we cannot avert them, any more than
Joseph of old could when he foresaw the
scourges that were coming upon his brethren;
he knew it but could not hinder it neither can
we. We mourn the conditions that have
brought about these things, and we desire to
assist in elevating humanity and bless the
world; we must learn to be charitable and to
love each other. Sisters remember sixty years
ago yesterday this Church was organized with
six members, in that first little meeting."
	Dr. Pratt then read a part of the statistical
and financial report from the several Stakes,
after which Mrs. S. M. Kimball made some
suitable remarks, sympathized with the au-
dience in having to listen to the report, but ex-
plained that it was a part of the labors of the
Relief Society. The Prophet Joseph said a
part of our labor was to learn to do business
in a parliamentary manner, it is not interesting
to all but it is an important matter.
	Pres. M. John R. S. Utah Stake gave a brief
report of the organizations and remarked that
she felt proud of the labors of the sisters, and
also spoke of the work they had done in silk
culture and felt to bless all.
	Pres. M. Pitchforth, R. S. Juab Stake, "we
have the gifts of the Gospel with us and if we
have not these we have "the still small voice,"
and we are striving to live the religion we
profess. We have been brought to this land
by the power of God;" said she was the first to
receive the Gospel in the town where she lived
when only fifteen years old, and she prayed
then for the faith that the Elders had who
preached to them, and her faith  had grown
with the years; "though we came to these
valleys a little handful we have become
a wealthy people, and our wealth increases,
may our faith also increase; I know God is at
the helm and He will guide the ship of Zion
safely," she felt with Sister Zina that these were
trying times but never felt better.
	Dr. Pratt finished reading the report which
was accepted.
	 Hon. A. Maitland Stenhouse Ex. Member of
Parliament from Canada, then addressed the
meeting by the invitation of the President. He
esteemed it a privilege to stand in the presence

