[Column 2]

	I am aware that you are deprived of the
pleasure of friendly correspondence to a large
degree, that your burden, in many respects, is not
a light one. The recent deaths in your family,
your bad state of health, the continued annoyance
and cruel treatment of your people by the pious
advocates of what I conceive to be a false system
of religion—all these are well calculated to rob
you of many of the chief pleasures of life, and
take away much of the glorious sunlight of ex-
istence.
	My son, who is now in college, is a close friend
and associate of the son of ex-Gov. Robinson, of
the Utah Commission—a man who evidently is no
favorite of the "Mormon" people. And Mr.
Robinson recently made the statement, that your
Church was a bitter enemy of the Government—
that all your pretense of loyalty was the most in-
fernal hypocrisy, and that certain of your
Church officials were bound by the most sacred
oaths to fight—in a certain way—for the total
annihilation of the sacred liberties of the Ameri-
can people. Now, Clarence, my son asked me
very particularly as to the truth of these state-
ments, and I referred him to a certain little article
I had in my possession written on the subject in
question, by your venerable President Mr. Wood-
ruff. I cannot, I will not accept such egregious
statements, for I see nothing in your past history
to indicate that you are antagonistic to Rupuli-
can institutions. One does not necessarily have
to be wedded to your faith to see the great in-
justice that is being done to your people. But it
has been the tendency of the Christian, as well
as other religions, to persecute for opinion sake;
and the present methods of persecution towards
"Mormonism" are no exception to the rule.
	When I was in the South, during the late war,
I frequently heard Christian ministers invoke
Deity to send death, destruction and unutterable
ruin to the usurpers of the North. I have also
heard them recommend the members of their
Church to take the bells from the towers, cast
them into cannons with which to blow to h—ll
the souls of all Yankee tyrants.
	When I came West to Indiana I listened to the
same thing from the ministers here.—And last
comes the great Talmage and recommends the
destruction of your people.
	I can't be a Christian—I can't tolerate the un-
warranted persecution of any sect, or creed,—I
believe in  universal, religious liberty, and the
same sacred rights for all people, and I have no
fears of the future, when the toils of a well-spent
life are ended. My religious philosophy may be
considered defective, but my aims and purposes
in this world are to do all the good I can for my
fellow men, and as little harm. If you could learn
my business life here from the poorer classes, you
would accept what I say as true. I control a
cash capital of $40,000 and not a cent is in the
hands of wealthy people, or speculators. It is al
used to assist those who are honest and needy. I
fear I have already worn out your patience, and
I must bring my letter to a close.—We have had
one of the most pleasant winters ever experienced
in this latitude. To day the fields are green as
early spring time, and it is warm and inspiring.
Would be pleased to hear from you soon—I occa-
sionally get copies of News and EXPONENT.
Please tell me of yourself and family, remember
me to Mrs. Wells, and believe me ever your
friend.
		W. H. B.


