HEPHZIBAH.
				XIX.

	When love comes in the balmy summer hours, 
		While all the earth with conscious pleasure teems,
	We linger in fair Eden’s charmed bowers,
		And ponder o’er, and o’er, love’s happy dreams.

	The “Pearce Farm,” was just the place for
love-making, secluded, quiet and peaceful.
The great, square front-yard was full of old-
fashioned flowers in bloom, and the house was
fragrant all day long with the perfume of
honey suckle and sweetbrier, that clustered
about the doorways; hay-making is said to be
love-making time, and now the new-mown hay,
lay sweet and fresh in the meadows; and this
young stranger from abroad was in search of a
wife; (though Hepsie knew it not;) he deter-
mined to make love while the opportunity was
favorable; his heart was touched with “Cupid’s
arrow," the girl was simplicity itself to him,
and suited his mood, after his experience in [---]
world. Only twice afterwards did they meet,	
ere almost without an engagement they were


[Column 1]

wed. The question that decided Hephzibah's
fate was asked one lovely afternoon when they
were sauntering through the meadows, just as
the sun was gaily lighting up the Western
sky. Harold had been in a very poetic mood,
and very tender withal after the fashion of an
ardent admirer, of which Hepsie had not the
slightest practical idea, and when he asked her
if she loved him well enough to be his wife,
she looked down and sighed, she knew not
what answer to make and in place of any re-
ply he caught her in his arms and kissed her
passionately, and declared he could not live, if
she refused to marry him. Hepsie struggled
to free herself from his embrace, she knew not
what to say; it was true that she was fascinated
by his charming presence; but she felt more
like weeping than rejoicing, she begged him
to give her time to think it all over, it had
been so sudden, such a surprise, she had not
dreamed of any declaration. She could
scarcely believe it was true. "I must see my
mother," she said, "she will understand better
than I do, I cannot answer now, school has not
closed yet, there are many things to be con-
sidered, O, no I cannot marry a stranger, you
must not come again my heart tells me so."
	Harold replied with the firmness of one who
knew his influence, "Hepsie you are mine now,
if love can make us one, but I will not come
again, since you will have it so, good night,
I'll not go in," by this time they had reached
the door, "good night," he clasped her to his
bounding heart and was gone in a moment,
she had not spoken again, she listened to the
sound of the horse's hoofs as as he rode away
in the still, calm twilight, and she felt as though
all was over; stealing quietly into her room
she threw herself down upon the bed and
wept bitterly, the great round moon shone in
upon the bare floor and the shadows of the
tall elm trees were like ghosts to her weird
imagination. Bye and bye sleep came to her
relief and the morning found her calm and
self-possessed, At breakfast Farmer Pearce,
who was a man of very few words said, "Miss
Hathaway you were late coming in from your
evening walk, I heard the horse's hoofs down
the rocky hill, and by the bye young Harvey
is a Mormon, and though his father is an old
friend of mine, yet on your account I can't
encourage his visits here Mr. Beamen charged
me to keep Mormons away from you, I'm sorry
for Harold, he's desperately smitten;" Hepsie
felt so embarassed she could not speak, but
Mrs. Pearce came to the rescue in her cool
way "let Miss Hathaway alone 'Lihu she
knows how to take care of herself, and as for
Mr. Beamen he put her in our care, and I'll
answer for't she'll not fall in love with neither
young Harvey with his polishes, nor Bancroft
neither; I know somethin about girls, she's
no fool." After this defense Hepsie felt ex-
cused from any reply, she went to her room to
dress for school and Farmer Pearce went out
to his haying; but the dear old lady followed
Hepsie and said, "don't mind my old man, he's
very fond of you Miss Hathaway, and he thinks
you're too good for Mr. Bancroft—he likes
young Harvey, only you know his folks are
'Mormons,' rich as they are, and they mean to
go to Nauvoo soon, and I guess they'd like
Harold to get him a wife and go along with
um." Hepsie had hard work to keep still,
but she could not talk about it. "I must go
now Mrs. Pearce don't worry about me, I
never was like other people; and I can't please
everybody either."
	Hepsie was very much dissatisfied with
herself, and she thought over and over what
had transpired. She felt she was in no wise
responsible for the coming of this young man,
nor had she tried to win his love; she had
[---]nted companionship to be sure and every-
thing [---] seemed to turn the tide of affairs in
his favor. She felt a little lonely when she

