			CASSIA STAKE.
EDITOR EXPONENT: 
	The Quarterly Conference of the Relief
Society of Cassia Stake convened at Oakley
on the 21 st. of March a morning and after-
noon session being held; Pres. Louisa Haight
presiding with her counselors. 
	There were present the Stake Presidency
and several other brethren, also a very good
attendance of sisters. 
	The verbal reports, by the representatives
of the various wards, showed the members
striving to do their best; the unusually severe
weather of the winter had hindered the sisters
much in their labors and gatherings, but in all 
the wards they had managed their monthly


testimony meetings, though in some had been
obliged to discontinue their sewing sessions.
	During the conference many of the sisters
and brethren bore testimony to the truth and
spoke in an instructive manner, the burden
of their remarks being: the teaching of children
the principles of truth and the Gospel in their
early youth: the doing each day what is at our
hands that our duty may be performed: the
great privilege of meeting together to speak of
the goodness of God: that His hand overrules
all things: that the saints have never been
forsaken by Him, trials no cause for discourage-
ment, present time best to serve the Lord, 
brethren should co-operate with the sisters in 
their endeavors as a society, work for the dead; 
Church of God will prevail though unpopular:
duty of members of society to seek out the
sick and lonely, duty of brethren to preach to 
the nations of the earth, duty of sisters to 
teach at home and set a religious example there, 
hearts are needed as well as dollars in the
building up of the kingdom of God, if we 
expect our prayers to be answered we must
put forth our own energies in that direction. 
	Pres. Lousia Haight proposed that a Fair
be held during the coming Fall, to which
various branches of the Relief Society of the
stake should join in contributing some thing
of interest and usefulness, wished to see home-
work of all kinds encouraged. 
	Conference adjourned for three months.
					LOUSIA HAIGHT Pres.
