COQUETTISH APRIL.

Coquettish April with her smiling face
	Bespangled with the dewdrops and the rain;
One moment laughing with a winsome grace,
	With all her mocking, and deceptive train,—
Promising sunshine, seedtime, bud and bloom—
	And then anon tossing her haughty head,
While breath of violets waft a sweet perfume,
	And o'er the land their welcome fragrance shed,—
As if in recompense of mischief done;
	Of promises unkept, vows unfulfilled;   
From early morn until the set of sun,
	Capricious as a naughty child self-willed.


The hues of many flowers adorn her way,
	And rippling music of the brooks and rills,
Keep time, while elves and fairies dance and play,
	In the sly nooks of verdure-covered hills.

She blows the dandelions in our very eyes,
	And curls the stems as playthings in her hands,
And laughs coquettishly at the surprise,
	Of those who wot not of her witching bands.
She fans us with a South wind as a child,
	Then like a tempest in a mad'ning gale
She frowns, and moans, and shrieks in fury wild.
	As tho' the fate of all the world to wail.

She has not grandeur but forsooth she knows
	How to allure the wisest and the best;
And when at evening hour we seek repose
	She oft disturbs our slumber and our rest,
By flashing lightning's and the thunder's roar,
	And the commotion of "the powers that be."
While cloud-bursts in their fierceness downward pour
	Until the roseate light of morn we see.

So doth fair April herald in the Spring,
	And seemingly delight to tease and vex;
Her wonderful allurements she doth bring.
	Sometimes to charm but oftener to perplex.

The daffodils spring up beneath her feet,
	And with their hues, the skies are mirrored oft
The daisies, tulips, pansies, join to greet
	This maid of April with her smiles so soft,
When covering herself with mantle green,
	She treadeth lightly over hill and plain,
But wheresoe'er her footprints have been seen,
	We know her coming hath not been in vain.
She beareth lilies in her virgin breast,
	And holds within her hands the sacred palm,
And on a Sabbath morn supremely blest
	When nature spreads a sacred calm,—
Lo, she rehearses o'er the Savior's birth,
	How in a lowly manger He was born;
His life, His mission, and His goings forth,
	His advent on the Resurrection morn.
So blest is April with this Jubiiee
	No wonder that her moods are gay and sad,
For life o'er death then gained the victory,
	On that fair morning all the earth was glad.

Stay yet a moment more and we shall see,
	How full of passion is this timid maid,
She fills all nature with her songs of glee,
	Then blushes, as a virgin half-afraid
Of her own beauty, and her loveliness;
	Conscious of what she can but ill conceal,
Responding to each burst of tenderness
	She doth awake and all her charms reveal.
The bounding pulse of nature fuller thrills,
	When April comes, and melts the icy streams,
The gladness of "the everlasting hills,"
	O'er, all the vales, with bright resplendence beams.
We call thee, the coquette, for thou dost dare
	More icy hearts to break, than all the rest,
And leave them for the other maids to wear,
	When thou hast put their mettle to the test.
Fair Cupid points at thee his winged dart,
	But so enchanted is he with thy power,
He does not even wound thy maiden heart
	But whiles away with thee, the potent hour.
		E. B. W.
April 1890.


