[Column 2]

thought that he would not come to Beechwoods
again; and a trifle piqued too.
	Mr. Bancroft renewed his attention follow-
ing her about so that she decided not to take
any more walks much as she needed the
change. He gave her to understand that he
knew Mr. H. had been unceremoniously dis-
missed and that Farmer Pearce would not
allow him to come there, and he intimated
that his love was not very deep, for he had also
paid his addresses to another young
lady, "one of your friends and of
your faith too." Evidently he expected this
would rouse Hepsie's indignation, or jealousy
if she really had an affection for Harold; but
he failed; the girl was non-committal. Not
even the old farmer or his wife could find
out, whether she was in love or not. Mean-
while Mr. B. pressed his attentions upon her,
though he must have known she disliked him,
he expected to win in the end by persistency
as many lovers had done.
	Before school closed Miss H. had recieved
two or three letters from Miss Reynolds in
reference to Harold and one anonymous one
warning her to beware of young Harvey. She
knew the handwriting however though the
author had sought to disguise it. She only
answered one letter but that was shown to
Harold and confirmed him in his determination
to marry her. We have not space to tell all
the tumult of emotions that pervaded the heart
of Hepsie during the last three weeks of the
school. It was a curious experience for so
young a girl. Her sister Mrs. S. and others
had heard of the young stranger's visits and
had visited her to warn her against marrying
a "Mormon." She had made up her mind
that she would not be over-persuaded either
way, and each conversation she had with friend
or relative always resulted in a flood of tears.
	School closed at last and Hepsie returned
home the following day and gradually she was
let into the secret, her own secret, that she was
to be married. It was quite understood, every
one knew except herself—all the arrangements
had been made before her return. The
Harveys were going to Nauvoo and many
other families from adjoining villages. There
seemed to be a special Providence in this
affair and everything tended in the direction
of the union of Harold and Hepsie. Had
the girl become more acquainted with him, the
marriage might never have been solemnized
but it was all managed as it were without
"common consent:" Hepsie had argued with
her mother thus "it will mar all my plans for
future action, everything will have to be
changed henceforth, all the golden vision of
my rose-hued future, my ambition to become
an author, must be buried in oblivion."
And she reasoned with herself, "Will his love
be sufficient to compensate me for all that I
have looked forward to,—the dreams of my
child-life, the ambition of my girlhood." She
was not quite satisfied; it was like a sacrifice
after all.
	A quiet wedding in a country village, the
one where Hephzibah was born and where
three generations of the family had taken an
active part. The morning was very beautiful;
many and fervent were the congratulations of
the villagers and friends, and yet there was
a degree of disappointment apparent. It was
not what had been expected, for many friends
had foretold for her a brilliant future. It really
seemed inconsistent that she should marry
young and settle down like other people to
common-place pursuits.
	It was strange that after the ceremony was
over, and the people had dispersed, for there
was neither wine nor wedding cake, or "a mar-
riage feast." of any kind: it was very strange
that the bride should have chosen of all places
in the world to take Harold for a ramble to
"the paternal mansion," it was not exactly in

[Column 3]

keeping with bridal garments, but it proved to
be a premonition of the future.
	Harold was enthusiastic in expressing his
new-found happiness, but Hepsie could not re-
joice. She could only see the old house as it
had been, her grand-pa sitting by the fire or
under the shade of the elms, and feel his hands
upon her head caressing her in the most endear-
ing terms. Soon after the marriage the young
couple took up their abode with Mr. and Mrs.
Harvey, who were busy making preparations
for gathering with the Saints to Nauvoo.
Hepsie soon found that a great deal was ex-
pected of her, more than she was equal to pre-
form. It was a frequent remark of Mrs.
Harvey's "I'm surprised you have such shift-
less ways, with all our money I would not
have brought up a girl in such an idle lacka-
daisical manner as you have been.


