[Column 2]

victory, she decended the river in a bark canoe
to the English settlements. Her daring deed
has filled all the world with wonder and ad-
miration. Let me only ask "What man has
ever performed a more heroic act the that of
Hannah Duston?
	We must not forget the mother of our
great president George Washington. 'Twas
she who trained her son in noble simplicity
and was best pleased when she saw him good
rather than great. A famous European,
after gazing on her for a few moments said;
"If such are the women of America it is no
wonder the sons are so illustrious." Her
handsome monument bears only the simple
words, "Mary the mother of Washington."
	Now let us briefly present the women of the
Revolution. Elizabeth Martin, who with the
spirit of a Spartan said to her seven brave sons
who were about to depart for the battle-field.
"Go my brave sons. Fight for your country.
Fight till death if you must, but never let
your country be dishonored. Were I a man
I would go with you."
	Anna Warner, Grace Martin and Major
Molly who, when her husband was killed took
his place at the cannon and remained until the
loud hurrahs of freedom burst on the air. The
poet has truly said.

	"Proud were they by such to stand,
	In hammock, fort, and glen; 
	To load the sure old rifle,  
	To run the leaden ball,
	To watch a battling husbands's place,
	And fill it, should he fall"

Hundreds of names of illustrious women could
be mentioned who fought for our freedom
and whose bravery and valor entitle them to
honorable remembrance. Their names should
stand side by side with those who signed the
Declaration of Independence, and pledged to
the cause of liberty, "their lives their fortunes
and their sacred honor."
	Who can deny that the wives of the presi-
dents have done more for intellectual and
moral advancment than the presidents them-
selves. The wives of our greatest senators and
presidents have made their husbands what
they are. Women have ever been the leaders
of society and on them depends what our social
position is.
	The women in the Civil War were a noble
band. Many heroic deeds were done and many
lives sacrificed for the government of liberty
and law.

"Whispered low the dying soldier pressed her hand and
	faintly smiled;
Was that pitying face his mother’s? did she watch beside
	her child?
All his stranger words with meaning her woman’s heart
	supplied,
With her kiss upon his forhead "Mother" murmured he
	and died,"

	Women as "philanthropists have surpassed
men. An instance is related of Dorothea L.
Dix who was called "the prisoner's friend." On
one occasion this lady was cautioned not to ap-
proach a raving maniac. He yelled fright-
fully day and night and was so violent that it
was supposed he would murder any one who
ventured within his reach. She approached
with the Bible and read in a low, sweet tone to
him,—he paused, his shouts gradually subsided
and when she ceased he uttered, "Read me
some more, it does me good, Lady, God sent
you." Some one making a slight noise attracted
his attention, and he exclaimed "Hush! hush!
there are angels with us." What mind of man
has ever had more power over the insane than
the one posessed by this gentle woman.
	The literary women have been equal and
many have surpassed men. Her works have
been written with a more attractive inspired
pen. No poems can surpass those of our own
great Eliza R. Snow Smith. We might

[Column 3]

mention scores of them if time would
permit.
	As lecturers, reformers, preachers, educators,
physicians, readers, actors and singers, as
printers, lawyers, inventors, journalists, in fact
in every vocation of life woman's mind has
equalled man's.

"Read the fresh annals of our land the gathering dust of
	time
Nor yet has fallen on the scroll to dim the tale sublime;
There woman's glory proudly shines, for willingly she gave
Her costliest jewels to uphold the generous and the brave,
Who fought her country's battle well and oft she periled
	life
To save a brother, father, friend, in thise dark years of
	strife,
Whatever strong-armed man hath wrought; whatever he
	hath won,
That goal hath woman also reached, that action she hath
	done."
