DAUGHTERS OF ISRAEL.

	Every living soul should have constantly before
it some aim, some object in view that is attain-
able, and that is calculated to stimulate the en-
ergies and arouse the ambition and aspirations
that man is capable of exercising.
	Latent powers are but dead or hidden energies.
They must be started into life by the presentation
of considerations that shall seem both pleasure-
able and desirable,—something that has an
affinity with the soul and worthy of its most
zealous determinations. Something that shall be
a sure guide, a permanent landmark, or like the
buoy made fast in the channel of the deep; how-
ever rough may be the waves of the tempestuous
waters, is a sure guide to the port or haven de-
sired.
	The haven of rest to man is beyond; it is only
reached after riding the waves and billows of a
tempestuous life—a life of trials, often of extreme
sorrow. He needs a beacon light to his path that
shall be an anchor to his hopes, a dispeller of his
fears. Hopes may bud and bloom while here,
but the fruit will only ripen in the hereafter.
This is a preparatory state, a day of probation
in which to make ready for our appearance in the
next or future state. This fact is so universally
accepted by the almost entire race of man that it
needs no argument in proof. The very savages
of our race look forward with delight to the bliss
of the happy hunting grounds to be their portion
in the hereafter.
	For a familiar illustration let us say it is like a
dressing room where we are to go through all the
formula of preparing for a suitable appearance
in society—whether it be for the gaiety of the ball
room, or the more retired enjoyment of the society
of familiar friends. The preparation of the dress-
ing room includes all of personal cleanliness, fit
and elegance of attire,indeed every thing that shall
make more attractive the person who desires to
be recognized as one of taste and culture, with
that refinement which makes the presence of one
desirable and pleasing to another of like ex-
cellence and culture.
	Adornments of various kinds, both costly and
unique are sought after for such occasions, and if
we do not possess them we will oft-times forego
the desired pleasure, rather than appear in an un-
becoming manner. All this is considered essential
to the gaiety of the circle, and the brilliancy of
the apartments where the guests are invited to
participate in the favors of Royalty.
	We recognize the greatest propriety in all this,
as being entirely suited to our personal conduct
now as social beings, and we are led to ask:
when will it be less so?
	This being the day of our probation in which to
prepare for a glorious future,—for admission into
the presence of Celestial beings who are basking
in all the splendor of a Celestial Kingdom, and
the purity of a Divine Presence; we may well in-
quire if we are putting on those garments of
Praise that will make our society there as agree-
able as we strive to make it here.
	There must be no stain upon our garments
there. Purity demands that they be white and
spotless. There the spiritual is revealed and
comprehended. The spirit there must be clean
from sin, free from guilt, free from all that cor-
rupts:—from all immoral taint or impurity; re-
deemed from all that would be a reproach to the
immortal throng into whose presence we hope to
be ushered when bidden to the marriage supper
of the Lamb; when none will be permitted to re-
main who have not on a suitable wedding gar-
ment.
	To enter into and enjoy the Celestial presence
we must exchange this mortal for the immortal;
this human for the divine; this temporal for the
spiritual; that which is of man for that which is
of God.


The question now is are we getting suitably
clad, how fast are we putting on those adorn-
ments that will make us attractive there in that
gay throng of glorified ones? All must be done
here that will secure to us favor, love and glory
there.
	As the woman is not without the man in the
enjoyment of all these conditions that are to fill
the soul with that fulness of joy that is now un-
speakable, a very important feature of her pre-
paratory work will consist in forming no alliance
with any man who will not make it his first, his
highest and holiest consideration to so live as to
be worthy of admittance there with her as partner
to all that the soul may be capacitated to enjoy;
dwelling in the midst of purity—in the fulness of
a divine love, and in all the glory that comes from
a knowledge of God with His eternal favor.
	Let the daughters of Israel be so instructed,
that they will see to it, that there is no barrier,
no obstacle in their way by reason of their own
choice, that shall prevent their free entrance
through the pearly gates into the Holy City and
mansion of God's eternal presence.
	Woman's nature is averse to the vulgarity of
the vile. Her delicate and refined nature justifiies
her in declining the attentions of any man when
offered in duplicity and on degrading terms.
	The fair daughters of Israel may well decline—
indeed should refuse to listen to one whose mouth
is the cesspool of filthy weeds, of poisonous in-
toxicants, of lies and profanity; whose heart is
full of deceit and evil passions, devoid of love
or charity, and whose tongue is full of hypocrisy.
	When they will give no countenance to these
prevailing and ruling passions of the man, he will
forsake his vices and wickedness to gain the favor
of the fair and pure, and he will follow her back
to the paradise of heavenly joys; and she may
have the honor and glory of adding another gem
to the bright crown of their mutual and eternal
inheritance in love's dominion.
	Thus women may become "savior's upon
mount Zion" as well as men, and justly share in
the glory of his redemption, as well as with him
the burdens and trials of life socially, politically,
and religiously; all tending and resulting to the
glory of God, by and through the exaltations and
eternal life of man.
