[Vol8 | October 1921 | Sequence: 01 | Category: Frontispiece | Title: Relief Society Nurse Class Frontispiece]

Relief Society Nurse School has always been that a certain specified number of days be given the society by the members of the class, in charity nursing, and she said that the members of this class have signed contracts to give in their home wards RELIEF SOCIETY NURSE CLASS oD) thirty days' service, or one hundred twenty-four hour service, whichever will be the most convenient and needed. In her address, Mrs. Drake spoke of her class as pioneers, for indeed this is the first class in the Relief Society in the state of Utah, or anywhere else, so far as we know, which has been permitted to enter an accredited hospital for a one-year course in nurses' aids work. There were many misgivings in the beginning as to how the Relief Society class would fit into the institution, and there have been some misunderstandings and griefs; but the experiment has been a success and the class has made good in both class work and nursing service. The class began with seventeen. During the year two of these married and three were compelled to give up the work on account of poor health, so that the class now numbers only twelve. The class has had some handicaps through illness. Nine operations have been performed upon its members in the L. D. S. Hospital, and in addition, five members have been treated in the hospital clinic. Because of loss of time through illness, some of the members have yet some time to make up. One member finished her service on August 1, two on August 2, and the remainder of the class will be through within the next two months. One member of the class has decided to enter the regular hospital training school for a three-year course. She will transfer her credits, for which she will be allowed six months' time. Superintendent B. F. Grant expressed his great pleasure in attending the exercises, and in having the opportunity to express his appreciation for the splendid work done by the