[Vol8 | October 1921 | Sequence: 16 | Category: Guide | Title: Guide Lessons for December]

Guide Lessons for December

LESSON 1
Theology and Testimony
( First Week in December )

Life after Death

The gospel of Jesus Christ is full of hope for all who leave this sphere of existence and, with one exception, go into other spheres. The revelations of the Prophet Joseph Smith supplement and classify the revelations in the Bible concerning life after death, in a marvelous manner. The Christian world have only a vague conception of the other world, gleaned from the sayings of the Savior and his disciples, and the symbolic pictures of John the Revelator, on the Isle of Patmos.

To begin with, the Christian world does not believe in pre-existence as we do. They believe that we did not have a conscious existence before we came here. To them vast reservoirs of spirit material exist somewhere, but is unorganized, undeveloped. Our elders preach pre-existence as a fundamental truth.

Pre-existence is clearly shown in the Bible, if we only have the key of revelation. Moses spoke of "The God of the spirits of all flesh," in Numbers 16:22; 27:16. The Lord asked Job, "Where wast thou when I laid the foundations of the earth?" 38:3-7. The Lord tells Jeremiah, 1:5. "Before I formed thee in the belly I knew thee." The Savior says (John 16:27) that "T came out from God." Again (16:28, 30) he says, I came forth from the Father.' Paul argues, (Hebrews 12:9) "Shall we not much rather be in subjection unto the Father of spirits and live?" The Preacher tells us (Eccles. 12:7) that "the spirit shall return unto God who gave it."

But the Christian world spiritualizes these sayings. They do not believe in the personality of God himself, and refer to Christ as God made incarnate. It is true that the revelations of the Prophet Joseph Smith have percolated all through the Christian faiths, and they have been greatly changed and modified from their original statements and beliefs.

The Conference of Christian Workers, recently held in Salt Lake City, quotes Dr. H. H. Powell, of San Francisco, as saying: "The mind of man, within the last century, has made the sharpest turn in the history of civilization, which many orthodox church people fail to recognize." He said further, "If one accepts the actual physical resurrection of the body there can be no vital objection to any of the absurdities of 'Mormon' theology concerning life after leaving this earth."

Sir Oliver Lodge, England's great scientist, has become converted to spiritualism, and has published a book containing many articles purporting to be communications received by him through a medium from his son who was killed during the great war. Many other men and women have become spiritualists, in one form or another. They are tired of the vague heavens of the Christian world, they want something definite and clear.

But Latter-day Saints do not need to drink from the muddy water of spiritualistic communications, in order to learn of the conditions and status of spirits on the other side of the veil. It is always unwise to dabble with spiritualistic doctrines and practices.

We are told by Paul that things earthly are a type of things heavenly. We know that there is organization over there, and a Church of Christ to which Saints belong, there as they did and do here. There are many spirits outside the Church there as there are people here, outside of this Church. Our social and religious association, however, should be and will be confined to those who belong to the Church over there, as it is, practically, here. We may and shall try to teach all men and women the truth, but we should remember one thing: the Priesthood rules there as it does here, and only under the authority and protection of the Priesthood will we be saved and happy there and here.

The Prophet describes these conditions in the "Gems" found in the Compendium. Read the statements there under the following headings:

The Punishment of the Devil?May 21, 1843.
The World of Spirits.
Spirits of the Just?October 9, 1843.
A Visitor? January 21, 1836.
Translation?October 5, 1840.
The Millennium?December 30, 1842.
Salvation?May 17, 1843.
All Revelations are Spiritual.
The Contention in Heaven.
A Key.
Observation on the Sectarian God.

Teachings of President Brigham Young:

"Spirits are just as familiar with spirits as bodies are with bodies, though spirits are composed of matter so refined as not to be tangible to this coarser organization. They walk, converse, and have their meetings; and the spirits of good men like Joseph and the elders who have left this Church on earth for a season to operate in another sphere are rallying all their powers, and going from place to place preaching the gospel, and Joseph is directing them, saying, 'Go ahead, my brethren, and if they hedge up your way, walk up and command them to disperse. You have the Priesthood, and can disperse them, but if any of them wish to hear the gospel, preach it to them.' Can they baptize them? No. What can they do? They can preach the gospel, and when we have the
GUIDE LESSONS ? 605 Some of the more common physical defects which cause delinquency are undernourishment, defects of the eyes, ears, nose or speech, dull physical pains, phimosis, or the need of circumcision, ulcerated teeth, or diseased tonsils. Any irritation or poison in the system tends like the poison from tobacco or liquor to break down the will power and stimulate anti social cravings. Dr. Healey found abnormal physical conditions present as a factor in causing delinquency in 273 out of 823 cases examined, Every child should be carefully examined once a year at least by a competent physician. An Automobile needs going over in the Garage once a year. Certainly the delicate mechanism of the body of a developing child is entitled to as much attention. MENTAL DEFECTS AS FACTORS IN CAUSING DELINQUENCY. Since all conduct is a direct expression of mental life it follows that the conduct cannot be normal unless the mental life is normal. Morality depends first, on the ability to foresee and weigh the possible consequences to oneself and others of behavior, and secondly, on the willingness and capacity to exercise self restraint. There is an unfortunate and constantly increasing class of individuals in every community who are inherently weak in both these requirements for moral living. The feeble-minded, as they are commonly called, are to be pitied not blamed for their delinquencies. Owing to defect existing from birth they are unable to handle their affairs with ordinary prudence and cannot compete in the affairs of life on equal terms with their fellows. In mental development they correspond to the child of twelve years or younger. They form a large percentage of the class which fill our divorce courts, reformatories and jails. It is variously estimated that from 2 to 5% of the general population are feeble-minded. Of delinquents it is perhaps safe to say that at least 30% are of this class. Statistics show that 50% of the prison population of the United States is feeble-minded. Dr. Healey found mental abnormalities present in 590 out of 823 cases of delinquency examined, or 71% of the total. The feeble-minded increase rapidly, and their condition is hereditary. They are capable of self-support if conditions are made favorable for them and are often expert in mechanical lines. They can be made industrious and happy if the condition is recognized and provided for. If they are left to competition in a social environment created by normals for normals they are almost certain to develop delinquent tendencies. The delinquent feeble-minded should be segregated in colonies for the protection of the state and to prevent their reproduction. [ Feeble-mindedness is a defect of the intellect or frontal part 
 of the brain. There are other mental defects of the basal part of the brain which has to do with the emotions. These defects give rise to hysteria, melancholy, dementia praecox or weakness of the will power, and other aberrational troubles. Such abnormalities as well as some forms of epilepsy and insanity are frequent causes of delinquency. They are hospital cases, however, and require the attention of specialists. There is, however, at least one type of mental trouble often causing delinquency, which can be guarded against in the development of the child. It sometimes happens that a conflict arises between two elements in the mental life of the child in association with a powerful emotional disturbance or experience. For example, the child whose instruction in sex matters has been neglected may have an experience which first arouses a strong sex feeling and desire. Owing to the social conventions which the child-knows and feels, it represses or attempts to inhibit the desire aroused. A mental struggle results which may be repeated every time the child's thoughts return to the experience which gave rise to the desire. The child finally secures relief by giving way to conduct, perhaps stealing, perhaps lying, at any rate conduct which the child considers less bad than the conduct toward which it is stimulated by the emotional disturbance. These mental conflicts unless discovered often last many years and cause delinquencies apparently in no way associated with them and often quite inexplicable to parents, The trouble can usually be stopped if the conflict involved can be discovered and explained to the child. QUESTIONS = How may physical trouble influence conduct? What is the value of health inspections by school nurses? Do you keep a weight chart of your growing children? How may the failure to use a tooth brush cause stealing? What is feeble-mindedness?. How far would you expect the feeble-minded child to-go in school without trouble. An WN SERVICE PRESS Better Printers of Better Printing Phone Was. 4044. 228 West Broadway, Salt Lake City Are You a Subscriber to the Relief Society Magazine? If not you are missing an opportunity to keep in touch with Relief Society work; and also the opportunity to help solve your Relief Society and home problems. Send your subscription to Relief Society Magazine 29 Bishop's Building. Salt Lake City, Utah Individual Sacrament Sets Now in Stock Best in the Market WILL LAST A LIFE TIME?
 REFERENCES FURNISHED Made especially for L. D. S. Churches, and successfully used in Utah and Inter-mountain region, also in all Missions in the United States, Europe, and Pacific Islands. Basic metal, Nickel Silver, heavily plated with Solid Silver.; | SIMPLE, SANITARY, DURABLE Satisfaction guaranteed. Inquiries cheerfully answered THE LATEST ACKNOWLEDGMENT.; Bishop's Office, Bern, Idaho, May 2, 1921. "I am in receipt of the Individual Sacrament Set, consisting of four trays - and the proper number of glasses. "Everything arrived in good condition. We are very pleased with it. I take this occasion to thank you for your kindness." Bureau of Information Temple Block Salt Lake City Going to Entertain at Dinner? - Let us enter your order and deliver it in a manner that will cause you to also give us your future orders?daily. "DICKINSON'S" The Quality Service Store. CHOICE MEATS AND FANCY GROCERIES. We are in step with the declining Market. W. R. McDONALD, Pres.; D, H. CANNON, Mgr. CAPITOL COAL COMPANY Successors to Fischer-Kittle Coal Company Phones Was. 2328-2329 305 SOUTH MAIN STREET Announcing a new name with the same old QUALITY and SERVICE. Dealers in Utah's Best Coals, Coke and Kindling Ask Your Dealer for Z. C. M. I. Western Scout SHOES A PHOTOGRAPH Is a suitable gift for almost any occasion. It speaks a universal language?a language understood by everybody. Whether it conveys a message of love or friendship, it tells it more effectively than a written letter. Of course, to do this it has to be a "Speaking Likeness"?the kind they make at Phone Was. 2861:. 6 Main St., Salt Lake Lumiere Studio 680 East 2nd South Street. Hyland 60. Over 1,000 New Readers Every Month for the Past Ten Months One of the reasons is our Wonderful New Pictorial Supplement. Have you seen it? Dependable The Deseret News Progressive National Bank The officers u1e always glad to meet customers and discuss business plans with them. Officers Heser J. Grant, President. Charles W. Nibley, Vice-President. Chas. S. Burton, Vice-President. Henry T. McEwan, V.-Pres. & Cashier. Alvin C. Strong, Assistant Cashier. John W. James, Asst. Cashier. The Relief Society Magazine office has on hand the following BOUND VOLUMES OF THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE of which they will be glad to dispose at the prices quoted below: 12 Vols. Of 1915, Cloth Bound $1.75 1 Vol. Of 1918, Leather Bound 2.00 2 Vols of 1919, Cloth Bound 2.75 1 Vol. Of 1919, Leather Bound 3.00 6 Vols. Of 1920, Cloth Bound 2.75 10 Vols. Of 1920, Leather B'd 3.00 lic Extra for Postage All orders should be addressed to the Relief Society Magazine, Room 29, Bishops Bldg., Salt Lake City, Utah. Bound volumes 'of the Magazine make appropriate gifts Keeley?s Ice Ceram For the ?Good old Summer time? DELIVERED EVERYWHERE P.O. Box 1713 Salt Lake City Phone Was. 
 O. Box 1713 Salt Lake City Training for Women Unexcelled opportunities for training young women in the professions of Home Economics, Music, Education, Business, Journalism, Commercial Art as well as in scores of general cultural courses are offered by the University of Utah Autumn Begins September 22 Rarely before mountain, educational institute and the faculty enlarged and activities have been so strengthened. ~~ Competent authorities unanimously claim that in the great business revival which is just now commencing women will function more prominently than ever before. Now is the time, therefore, for young women to consider the advantages of adequate training for these pending responsibilities, Plan to enroll September 22. Write now for catalogue and other announcement literature. Note: The recent state legislature authorized courses in Home Eco. Nomics at the University of Utah. An extensive list of subjects in this department is offered the student. UNIVERSITY OF UTAH SALT LAKE ORGAN OF THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE THE CHURCH OF JESUS CHRIST OF LATTER-DAY SAINTS Room 29 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah $1.00 a Year?Single Copy, 10c. Canada and Foreign, $1.25 a Year?15c Single Copy.