GUIDE LESSONS FOR FEBRUARY 649 know of the custom of supplying wearing costumes suited to the occasion. On this occasion it would seem that provision had been made for every one to be supplied with the necessary festive attire. This fact may account for the speechlessness of the intruder, he could make no excuse for he knew that the king knew that wedding garments had been given to all who came in at the door. Therefore, he merited the treatment of a "thief and a robber." Then arises the question as to what was meant by the wedding garment without which no one could legally enter, or be permitted to remain in the kingdom. Was it not the robe spoken of in Gal. 3:27? One biblical authority says: "The wedding garment is righteousness, in its largest sense: the whole adornment of the new and spiritual man, including faith, without which it is impossible to please God, and the holiness, without which no man shall see him?or like this guest, shall only see him to perish at his presence." The outer darkness is a state of weeping through disappointment, and gnashing of teeth through hatred. Of the lessons taught by this the last parable, spoken by Jesus to a mixed assembly, the following seem most prominent: 1. The Lord desires the happiness of all. 2. The Lord is not dependent on any special class of per-. Sons for the carrying out of his purposes. 3. The Lord has a way of scrutinizing every individual no matter how great the group. 4. Blessings can be obtained only through obedience to law. Parable of the Entrusted Talents?Matt. 25:14-30. "For the kingdom of heaven is as a man traveling into a far country, who called his own servants, and delivered unto them his goods. "And unto one he gave five talents, to astettien. Two, and to another one; to every man according to his several ability; and straightway took his journey. "Then he that had received the five talents went and traded with the same, and made them other five talents. "And likewise he that had received two, he also gained other two. "But he that had received one, went and digged in the earth, and hid his Lord's money. "After a long time the Lord of those servants cometh, and reckoneth with them. "And so he that had received five talents came and brought other five talents, saying, Lord, thou deliveredst unto me five talents: behold, I have gained beside them five talents more. 
 "His lord said unto him, Well done, thou good and faithful servant: thou hast been faithful over a few things, I will make thee ruler over many things: enter thou into the joy of thy lord. "He also that had received two talents came and said, Lord, thou deliveredst unto me two talents: behold, I have gained two other talents beside them. "His lord said unto him, Well done, good and faithful servant; thou has been faithful over a few things, I will make thee ruler over many things: enter thou into the joy of thy lord. "Then he which had received the one talent came and said, Lord, I knew thee that thou art an hard man, reaping where thou hast not sown, and gathering where thou hast not strawed: "And I was afraid, and went and hid thy talent in the earth: lo, there thou hast that is thine. "His lord answered and said unto him, Thou wicked and slothful servant, thou knewest that I reap where I sowed not, and gather where I have not strawed: "Thou oughtest therefore to have put my money to the exchangers, and then at my coming I should have received mine own with usury. "Take therefore the talent from him, and give it unto him which hath ten talents. "For unto every one that hath shall be given, and he shall have abundance: but from him that hath not shall be taken away even that which he hath." Comment?This parable has something in common with the parable of the Pounds recorded in Luke 19:11-27. They both aim at the encouragement of faithfulness in the use of ability and opportunity. Each teaches the necessity of implicit confidence in the Lord as paymaster. In both instances the proprietors were going on journeys. In both parables loyalty and effort were rewarded, while disloyalty and negligence were met with merited punishment ?the outer darkness which always follows iniquity. Both parables are illustrative of the truth couched in the statement, Care for and keep; neglect and lose. These parables differ in that in one, the amounts entrusted were equal; in the other the distribution of capital was according to the capacity of the servant?"every man according to his several ability." The parables of the Pounds was spoken on the way from Jericho to Jerusalem to a mixed multitude. The parable of the Entrusted Talents, the last of his parables, was spoken to His disciples after his final visit to the temple. Among the lessons of life to be learned from the parable of the Entrusted Talents stands out in bold relief the importance of doing our best with what is entrusted to our care. Had the 
 12. To whom was the last parable spoken, and what great Latter- 13. Discuss the problem: Our good works follow us as lifting evers. LESSON II (Second Week in February) | Work and Business Teachers' Topic for February Curfew Law A siren or bell should not be necessary to establish the observance of this law. A sentiment in favor of its value ought to be encouraged - in every home. The Lord has told us the value of retiring early, in the Doctrine and Covenants, Section 88. Sleep is as conducive to health as food. LESSON III (Third Week in February) Literature SIDNEY LANIER 59 Sidney Lanier was a notable example of a man of versatile talent. He seemed for many years of his life as much the musician as the poet. Only as he matured did it become apparent that he had more creative ability as a poet than he had as a musician. Yet the fact that he was a musician made of him one of those rare singers, the music of whose verse thrills with a satisfaction unknown, where the feeling for music is lacking. Such a poet was John Milton among the English, and such a poet was Sidney Lanier among Americans. We have already noted the music of Edgar Allen Poe's verse, who, like Lanier, was of Southern birth. Critics are pretty generally agreed that no one but a man day Saint lesson is taught by it? A GUIDE LESSONS FOR FEBRUARY | 653 of Southern birth could have written what Sidney Lanier wrote; consequently he becomes an intepreter of the section that gave him birth. His life was a severe struggle with untoward circumstances. War, poverty, and serious ill health, growing out of the hardships of both poverty and war, were his portion. One cannot resist wondering what his contribution might have been had he been nurtured in an environment such as Longfellow and Lowell knew. He was born in Macon, Georgia, February 3, 1842. He attended school until the age of fourteen, when he entered Oglethrope college.: His musical gift was inherited, for as a boy he could play any instrument he tried. His favorite instrument was the violin, which proved to be so wearing on his sensitive nature that, yielding to his fathers request, he gave it up and devoted himself to the flute. He mastered the flute without instruction, and later "attained great distinction as first flutist in the Peabody Orchestra, of Baltimore," say his biographers. After being graduated he served as a tutor for nearly a year, resigning to enlist in the Confederate army, in April, 1861. He went through the war as a private, declining several offers of promotion, because he was. Unwilling to be separated from his brother Clifford to whom he was devoted, in an extraordinary degree. However, close to a year before the war was over the two were separated by being detailed as signal officers on board a blockade runner. While in this service, Sidney was captured, and imprisoned for five months. During the war he began to develop symptoms of tuberculosis. Imprisonment in the wretched prison at Point Lookout, North Carolina, provided just the development of the disease; consequently Sidney Lanier may be regarded as one of the victims of the Civil War, as his death was undoubtedly the result of living the life of a soldier. On his release from prison on February, 1865, he walked home to Georgia, where he went through a severe illness of six weeks. Just as he recovered his mother died. - Poverty had engulfed the Lanier family as it had thousands of other southern families, so that this gifted son of the South took the first occupation that presented itself, which chanced to be a clerkship in an Alabama hotel, at Montgomery. In May, 1867, Lanier went to New York to arrange for the publication of his war novel Tiger Lilies. In September of the same year he became principal of a school in Prattsville, Alabama. Three months after, he married Miss Mary Day of his own home town, Macon, Georgia. The union proved to be ideally happy, and might almost be classed with such a marriage as Elizabeth Barrett and Robert Browning. From his devotion to his wife GUIDE LESSONS FOR FEBRUARY ~? 635 And loves for all that God and man In art and nature make or plan, And lady-loves for spidery lace And broideries and supple grace And diamonds and the whole sweet round Of littles that large life compound, And loves for God and God's bare truth, And loves for Magdalen and Ruth. Dear eyes, dear eyes and rare complete? Being heavenly-sweet and earthly-sweet, I marvel that God made you mine, For when He frowns 'tis then ye shine! A month after marriage Lanier went back to Macon, Georgia, in poor health. For some reason, not plain, he went into the study of law with his father, a venture that covered four years. His health became the urgent necessity of his life, so that he first took a trip to New York for treatment, and later to Texas for climate. In December, 1873, he began work with the Baltimore orchestra, publishing fourteen months later the poem that marked him as a man of genius. This poem called forth by a Georgia Jandscape in summer he called Corn. It begins: Today the woods are trembling through and through With shimmering forms, that flash before my view, Then melt in green as dawn-stars melt in blue. From the date of the publication of Corn, Bayard Taylor, the distinguished writer, and Sidney Lanier became fast friends. He procured the appointment for Lanier to write a cantata for the Philadelphia Centennial of 1876. Lanier has paid Taylor more than one tribute in verse. The years remaining to Lanier were spent in a vain attempt to find a climate in which he might live without suffering so severely. He tried the mountains near North Carolina "and Tampa, Florida. Lanier's musical talent contributed much to his musical success. To the type of poetry where sound and movement combine to produce both meaning and music, he made a most valuable contribution. Much as he loved music, and greatly as it added to his poetry, for he sometimes set his poetry to music, he desired more to be an expert in the field of literature. This desire was granted all too late, we are tempted to say, for the embers of life were burning low with him when he accepted a chair in Johns Hopkins University. We are told that his students often wondered if his breath would last through the recitation. After two years' service, from 1879-1881, at Johns Hopkins University, he wrote the Commemoration Ode, delivered on the 
 University's fourth anniversary which contains the beautiful lines: "Bring faith that sees with understanding eyes, The world has bloomed again, at Baltimore." He passed to his reward at Asherville, North Carolina, where he died in September. Mrs. Lanier's description of the event is a classic, so we include it: "We are left alone with one another. On the last night of the summer comes the change. His love and immortal will hold off the destroyer of our summer one more week, until the forenoon of September 7th, and then falls the frost, and that unfaltering will renders its supreme submission to the adored will of God." A character poem of Lanier's is The Symphony. In the poem he personifies each instrument in the orchestra and makes them discuss various deep social questions of the time. Like most artists, Lanier makes a plea for more heart in business, more time for the consideration of heart-throbs, more heart for the mad rush of trade. Lanier's life presents three absorbing topics: They are Lanier the man, Lanier the musician, and Lanier the poet. Questions and Problems 1. What was the occasion of the centennial celebration in Philadelphia, 1876? 2. What contribution did Sidney Lanier make to that celebration? 3. "My Springs" is one of the noblest and most beautiful tributes ever written by a man to a woman: read it carefully, and try to list the things that Lanier says his wife inspires and stimulates in his life. 4, What does Lanier mean, when he speaks of the "littles that large life compound?". Do you think the world still needs singers who ask for more heart in the world of commerce and trade, if so, why? 6. Show that the untimely death of Sidney Lanier, is a protest against war. 7. What are the chances that the Great War took from the world many persons who would have made notable. Contributions? LESSON IV (Fourth Week in February) Social Service 2 Housing and Housekeeping ' The physical aspects of-a home influence very definitely the development of the family. Good sanitary and dietary standards in a family are likely to make for a high standard of health. Also, a well-regulated home contributes to the members more than GUIDE LESSONS FOR FEBRUARY 657 physical well-being; it develops certain desirable traits in all the members of the family. In a'successfully managed home the members feel a responsibility to maintain the family standard, they take a pride in order and in cleanliness, they learn the lesson of thrift and industry, and they learn to have mutual respect for each other's wishes, belongings and rights. It is quite comprehensible that a well-organized family life develops agreeable, normal, successful individuals. It is also, then, conceivable that reverse conditions develop opposite traits and characteristics. Not only can the health of a child be undermined by the undesirable living conditions, but an unattractive, unsanitary home can effect his progress in school, his conduct, and his outlook on life. Juvenile Court authorities can often understand why children stay out late at night, and interpret their resulting waywardness and delinquencies, when the homes of the children in difficulty are visited. In trying to understand the economic success and the educational and normal tone of a family it is important to keep in mind the significance of the physical aspects of the home. In cities, and particularly the larger ones, the actual housing conditions become such a problem that legislation is usually required to control sanitation, ventilation, and to prevent the exploitation of the tenants. Such legislation limits the increase that landlords are permitted to make in the rentals and also requires that certain repairs be made, and that each room be equipped with windows or with air shafts. Such minimum requirements, however, express only in a meager way the sentiment of the community regarding living conditions. The standard set for the whole community by physicians, social workers and household experts, who aim to avoid the dangers of overcrowding, to foster health, and to develop wholesome home life, realize that the facilities must be adequate to promote the best possible family life. A family of six can hardly manage with less than five rooms? three for sleeping, a kitchen, and a living room where social life in the family can be encouraged. Young people are reluctant to bring their friends into the home if there is not one room where they can read, talk, play games, or enjoy music of some sort. What furnishings a house has depend largely on taste, on individual preferences, and on the income. Certainly there should be adequate sleeping room and sufficient bedding. There should also be cupboard space for clothing, so as to encourage a sense of order and responsibility, even among the children, for the care of their belongings. The kitchen or living room should have enough furniture so that the entire family can be seated for their meals. 
 Elementary as these requirements may seem, an appreciation of their significance has led many persons, who are meeting the difficulties of bad housekeeping and undernourished children. To a better understanding of these problems. If a mother does not have the kitchen equipment to prepare food, and if the family is living in such crowded quarters that it is difficult for the family to be seated for their meals, the children will often be subjected to the unwholesome practices of eating standing-up snatches of hastily prepared meals. To improve standards of housekeeping is a difficult but by no means a hopeless task. The successful housekeeper, lil: e a successful person in any occupation, must be trained, must have necessary equipment to do the work, and must have an incentive to succeed. Until the process of housework has become a habit, it may be necessary for the housewife to work by a schedule? setting aside definite hours each day to perform certain household tasks, Without equipment?washtubs, kitchen utensils, sufficient linen, etc.,?the work is more difficult and complicated. It is a simple matter to advise cleanliness to all housewives, but the one who has no hot water and no laundry conveniences will have some difficulty in attaining the same standard that is easily achieved in better equipped homes. To instruct a mother to take her children out for a daily airing may be very sound hygienic advice, but it may not be very practical to follow if she does not have a baby carriage. In attempting to give instructions in housekeeping it is important to create an incentive or motive for improvement. If a mother is made to realize, through clinical or school exaniunations, for instance, that her children are not as well-developed as other children of the same age, she may be helped to see the connection between her own indifferent housekeeping and the poor health of the family. In another instance, the motive for creating a pleasant family environment may not come until the mother realizes that her children would rather spend their time elsewhere?with the neighbors, at the movies, or in the streets? than to spend their leisure in their own home. Questions and Problems What housing problem does your community. Have? What is the relation between housekeeping and health? How do you account for the undernourishment of chilWhy would the housekeeping influence the school work of children? Their conduct? 5. Discuss the social values of a pleasant home atmosphere. Dren in cities? In rural communities? The season of Lamps and Gifts is now here and there may be some who would think the day dark without a gift from you. The sun will surely shine if they get the gift from Callaway's 66 So. Main St. The Gift Store GIFT BOOKS for Your Children Have our juvenile expert suggest gift book titles for your boys' and girls' Christmas. Only the literary and the wholesome has place in our Books for Children. Call and look them over or write for free list of titles and prices.. Choose Your Christmas Greeting Cards Here Deseret Book Company Glazier and Taylor HOSIERY COMPANY 33 EAST BROADWAY A Store Dealing in Quality Hosiery and Underwear Exclusively Heavy Silk Full-Fashioned, all colors A wonderful hose for wear Per Pair $2.00 Box of Three Pairs. $5.75 Silk Semi-Fashioned, all colors, beautiful and durable Per Pair $1.50 Box of Three Pairs..