[WomansExponent | Vol36 | 1907 | May | Issue: 9 | Title: A BOOK OF VERSE. | Author: Unknown]

		A BOOK OF VERSE.
	Alfred Lambourne, poet and artist has
another new book surpassing in style and
value, in all respects, perhaps, any of the
smaller volumes of his, previously given to
the public; the book must be classed as
artistically beautiful, and it is in keeping,
so far as its general appearance is concerned
with his story of “Plet” and “Poems of
Holly and Easter Lilies.” The new book
has the simple title “A Book of Verse,” but
the contents are in every respect superb.
	The frontispiece is an exquisite portrait
from life of the author, and is in every de-
tail perfect, and in every touch and expres-
sion. It is the work of M. M. Young, art-
ist and sculptor, a native son of Utah, and
a genius in his line of art. The title page
and inscription are by Lee Greene Richards,
whose name and fame are becoming well-
known in Utah and abroad; they are very
unique, and give the impression of some-
thing classical. Illustrative designs here
and there in the book are by the two artists
who are doing much in helping to make
Utah famous, J. L. Harwood and Lee
Greene Richards. These designs are dainty
in fineness and add much to the artistic
taste of the book itself, and to the delight
of the readers of the poetic effusions so ex-
quisitely wrought into verse pictures.
	The Contents given by the author are:
I “Three Season’s Flowers,” [dedicated to
Lillian]. II “Cicidas In Home Sweet Home”
[To Minnie.]
	We regret that we are not competent to
give the author’s own ideas of the illustra-
tions, but as we gaze upon them we find
they speak to us in a language we are incap-
able of putting into words, it is the lan-
guage of the soul.
	The first poem in “Three Season’s Flow-
ers” is the lilac, and one must read it to
get an idea of its soulful significance, it
speaks volumes to a lover of this garden
shrub, when in flower. The writer can only
quote a verse or two of what appeals most
tenderly to her:
“With moisture strange the lilacs fill mine eyes,
	A gladsome dew'that glistens into tears;
Entranced I stand, lost in a sweet surprise,
	While joys divine come back from out the
		years.”
	Another verse we unust quote which
struck the writer as quite an original idea
and very fanciful.
“O, what the secret that these blossoms hold—
	Which they unto the primal purpose owe?
O, what the occult life these leaves unfold.
	From golden age that antedated woe?”
	It appears that the author has selected
three flowers to express beautiful and pure
thoughts, and every line contains thought-
food for the student of literature.
	The second season, “The Rose,” midsum-
mer blossom, the favorite flower of many peo-
ple and indeed of nations, one might say; its
richness, its splendor, its ravishing beauty,

[Column 2]
its peerlessness, in short it might be called
a symbol of triumph and of victory; and is
styled classically “queen of flowers.” To
choose which verse t’were best to quote, or
which conveys most exquisiteness of senti-
ment, one cannot tell as one reads the poem
over and over, but we will venture to give
one or two verses in this random writing.
“In this full time, this hey-day of the year,
	My soul en rapport with the fairness wrought
Here with the queenly rose doth own the sphere—
	All earth possess, in luxury of thought.”
	The writer closes this delicious poem with
the verse which is probably the climax of the
poet’s idea.
“With honeyed wealth of life the moments teem,
	And heart to heart melts in delicious swoon.
Can aught of fear or strife disturb love’s dream,
	Made perfect by the roses, gift of June?”
	Mr. Lambourne speaks gracefully of the
Chrysanthemums’ lives beginning when the
others die:
“Strange lives that come to make a round com-
		plete;
	Blossom and flower surviving numberless;
’Tis but a world all pallid now they greet,
	Companionship to keep with weariness.”
In harmony they come with this drear morn,
	When wrapt in chilly mist all nature grieves,
Delivers to the year her latest born,
	Nipt by the hoar frost, hid by the drifting
		leaves.”
	Mr. Lambourne requested the writer to
read the poem “Cicidas in Home Sweet
Home,” when alone at night; we informed
him we had already read the poem when
alone very late at night, when the full moon
was bright, since then it has been read more
than once, and we think that the author has
drunk deep draughts at the Pierian spring.
“What dearer moment can the future give,
	Than this wherein a thousand transports
		crowd?
The loves of dead ancestors once more live.
	Within my heart, they cry to me aloud.”
“The Fields Lethean are this moment mine,
	As though my soul emerged from out the wave,
By that bright shore, where starry clusters shine,
	The Isles of Peace, that Lethe’s waters lave.”
“A sweet forgetfulness from self I find.
	Lost ’mid the cadences of verse and song;
The overflow from one glad heart combined.
	With gleeful clamor of night’s winged throng.”
	Mr. Lambourne may feel justly proud of
the book the production of one of Utah’s
geniuses, and believe that the coming gener-
ation of the sons and daughters of the vales
of the West, born amid the grandest scenery
on the American continent, with a goodly
legacy of knowledge bequeathed to them
through the efforts of the founders of this
commonwealth in establishing educational
institutions, may be able to fully appreciate
the classical works of such poets as O. F.
Whitney, Alfred Lambourne, and Henry W.
Naisbitt, after they are gone, as they do
not seem to while they live. One wonders
why dead poets are more widely honored
and recognized years after they have passed
away, than while they sojourned among
their contemporaries.
