[Vol2 | April 1915 | Sequence: 10 | Category: Home | Title: Guide Lessons - Home Ethics Truth]

Home Ethics and Art. ETHICS. Lesson IV ? Truth. Truth is the perception of things just as they are. Between truth and falsehood, there is no middle ground. "We owe truth to all normal people, and under all normal circumstances." In sickness, or other abnormal conditions, there may be justification, and even wisdom in withholding the truth. Fortunately, these conditions or occasions do not often arise. tion. Truth is honesty and accuracy, expressed in word or action. Honesty of purpose should be the fundamental principle in word, thought, and deed. Habits of truthfulness establish feelings of confidence and security. Without confidence in one another, we could not maintain social and civilized conditions. Compare the respect for the truthful person with the contempt we feel for the one who deceives. It is sometimes a fine test of courage to be able to speak the truth. But to cover a fault with falsehood is mean and contemptible. Careless thinking and undisciplined observation are responsible for many apparent falsehoods. Also, there are persons who let their vivid imaginations "color" their statements, and in that way they depart from the truth. The habit of exaggeration is at least a mild departure from truth. But worse than all these mistakes of carelessness, parents sometimes willfully make misstatements to their children. Mothers have been known to tell their children they were not going away, and immediately after, "sneak off." Could a more emphatic lesson in fasehood and deception be given? And, too, at such an impressionable age. It is never too late to correct evil habits of any kind, but good habits formed early in life bring large returns in happiness. Children should be taught very early to see things just as they are, or, in other words, to get a true perception, and then to relate with accuracy what they have seen. In childhood, the imagination is very active, and often on this account, children tell very wonderful stories. They should not be punished for this, because that very imagination may be a sign of superior mentality. But with gentleness, patience, and perseverance, the child may be taught the difference between stories of imagination and the accurate statement of facts. Also, he may be taught the value of truth and the respect which it commands. Children sometimes knowingly and wilfully tell what is not true, because they realize they have done wrong or have met with accident, and wish to shield themselves from punishment. In brief, they falsify, because they are afraid. It is very important to teach such a child the value of courage as well as truthfulness. Very few children intentionally do wrong; and when they make mistakes, or do what in our eyes seems reprehensible, we should seek the cause which is behind the action. Above all things, we should never doubt a child's word until we are really obliged to. Many children are highly sensitive as to the opinion of their elders, and are deeply and unforgettably wounded when their word is doubted. Besides, belief in people often helps them to be better. Truthfulness is a most important factor in family, social, and business life: and what a valuable assest to any community is the man whose "word is as good as his bond." He who speaks truthfully will strive to live honestly, and rejoice that there are no false actions to conceal. We all desire to know the truth; therefore, it is discourteous and unethical to use deception towards others. QUESTIONS, What is truth? Give another definition, please. Name some of the advantages arising from habits of truthfulness. Some disadvantages of the opposite course. Name some of the fine qualities of character developed by truthfulness. What qualities in children may lead into false speaking? How should they be corrected? Do parents sometimes unconsciously or thoughtlessly teach deception? Should we not always give children and friends the benefit of the doubt? What effect may believing the best of people have upon them? Is there such a thing as a "white lie"? Are there any occasions on which departure from the truth is justifiable? If you know of such instances, relate some. Commit some memory gems on the subject, and read frequently John Jaques' hymn, in the L. D. S. Hymn Book, "Oh, Say What is Truth," etc. 
 QUOTATIONS. "Oh, what a tangled web we weave, When first we practice to deceive." ? Scott. ? for truth is truth to the end of reckoning. Shakespeare. "He is the freeman whom the truth makes free. And all are slaves beside." ? Cowper. Hymn in the L. D. S. Hymn Book, "Oh Say What is Truth," etc. ? John Jaques.