RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE January 1928 VOL XV NO. 1 “Jewelers of Distinction”  Since 1862 Boyd Park, Makers of Jewelry, have unfailingly served their patrons with gems and bits of craftsmanship of the highest order. Today, as always, they are "Jewelers of Distinction.". The treasures from their The treasures from their shop are within the reach of everyone,: JEWELERS through convenient 366 MAIN STREET SALT LAKE CITY charge accounts, For Three Generations —— Winter Excursion Fares VIA SOUTHERN PACIFIC LINES To LOS ANGELES AND RETURN BOTH WAYS $50. 50 via SAN FRANCISCO To LOS ANGELES via SAN FRANCISCO returning $58. 00 direct or route reversed....... Proportionately low fares from all other points in UTAH, IDAHO and MONTANA. STOPOVERS ALLOWED AT ALL POINTS. TICKETS ON SALE DAILY FINAL RETURN LIMIT 8 MONTHS For further information CALL, WRITE or PHONE PRESS BANCROFT, GENERAL AGENT PHONES WAS.  = The more you have—the more you have need for INSURANCE Protect what you have by insuring it. Buy sound insurance. Let us explain the value of a policy in the Utah Home Fire Insurance Company. UTAH HOME-FIRE INSURANCE CO. HEBER J. GRANT & CO., General Agents, Salt Lake City, Utah  —_, When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine  41 SO. MAIN ST. A SALT LAKE CITY Ask Your Dealer for Z. C. M. I. Factory-Made Children's Allovers Khaki and White Backed Denim for Boys Khaki and Peggy Clothes Dutch Kut For Girls The Famous Mountaineer Overalls Give Splendid Satisfaction. Select Your GULBRANSON | Piano NOW! We have just received carload shipments for immediate GULBRANSEN ‘Registering’ PIANOS Straight pianos $295, $350 Registering player pianos $450, $580, $615, $700 Easy Terms Freight Paid Glen Bros.-Roberts Piano Co. Store Pocatello When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine Ogden | Salt Lake City L.D.S. GARMENTS DIRECT FROM FACTORY You are guaranteed unusual wear and satisfaction from Cutler Garments. Return them for full refund if they do not give this required service. Cutler Underwear has maintained the highest standard of quality for over twenty years. —————No. 68 Lt. Wt. Ladies' new style $.75 No 74 Lt. weight combined $1.15 No 64 Medium weight 1.45 No 76 Lt. weight lisle 1.45 No. 62 Medium heavy.............. 1.70. No 61 Med hvy. Unbleached with double back ... 1.70 no 56 Heavy weight 2.15 No 27 Med. Heavy ½ wool 3.35 No 39 Extra heavy ½ wool 3.85 Please state whether for me or women new or old style Postage prepaid Pay Cash—Cash Pays | Cutler's. One Good Resolution for 1928 Cook Electrically! Jack Frost Woolens Set the Standard A standard of excellent quality. low price and up-to-the-minute style is set by the Jack Frost line of woolen goods, made in Utah by the Original Utah Woolen Mills. Come into our retail store on Richards Street, or watch for our agents. We have approved L. D. S. garments, hose, sox, ties, scarfs, knit dresses, blankets, sweaters, overcoats, children's clothes* all at factory prices. The Original Utah Woolen Mills Briant Stringham, Manager 28 Richards Street Salt Lake City. Serve Keeley’s Ice Ceram Candy Cake Punches. Special Sunday Bricks and Neopolitan Bricks 25c pt 50c M. Call Your Keeley 's Dealer. Extra packed in ice. The perfect Desserts. TEMPLE AND BURIAL CLOTHES COMPLETE SUITS FOR MEN AND WOMEN Variety of Grades and Prices. Prompt and Careful Attention To Mail—Telephone—Telegraph Orders Open Daily, 9 a. m.—5 p. m. GENERAL. BOARD RELIEF SOCIETY Phone Wasatch 3286, 29 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah There is no better way to start the New Year than to bring into your home the modern method of eliminating kitchen drudgery by Electric Cooking. Cleanest—Most Economical—Most Efficient. $5.00 DOWN Balance in small monthly payments. Ask for one of our folders describing the different services we offer. Troy Laundry. Hyland 190 Distinctive Work Office 319 S. Main St. Will bring to you an Electric Range of highest quality. Come in and look over our splendid stock of Electric Ranges. You'll find one that will just suit you. Utah Power & Light Co. Efficient Public Service When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine Ask for Sego Milk L. D. S. GARMENTS When ordering, state Size, New or Old Style, and if for man or lady. Samples on request. 622 Mercerized Lisle, Lt. Wt...$2.15 902 Unbleached Ex. Hvy........... 2.50 1072 Super Wool Mixed Shrunk 4.00 244 Swiss Rib. Lisle and Silk Postage prepaid in U. S. 142 Light Weight, Flat..........$.95 204 Double Carded Cotton, Rib 1.35 32 Combed Cotton, Lt. Wt..... 1.50 222 Cotton, Rayon Striped...... 1.65 252 Cotton Bleached, Med. Wt. 1. 75 744 Unbleached, Med. Hvy. 758 Bleached, Med. Hyy... BARTON & CO. Established in Utah 45 Years 142 WEST SOUTH TEMPLE ST. Rayon, New Style............ 925 Ladies' Poca" new shades 1.00 3 pair 2.75 Salt Lake City, Utah HERE IS HIGHPOWERED CLEANING HELP FREE World's largest selling vacuum cleaner sent to your home for free use. $8.50 set of attachments FREE with each cleaner purchased.  Eureka Vacuum Cleaner Co. 161 So. State Fack Frost Woolens Set the Standard A standard of excellent quality, low price and up-to-the-minute style is set by the Jack Frost line of woolen goods, made in Utah by the Original Utah Woolen Mills. Come into our retail store on Richards Street, or watch for our agents. We have approved L. D. S. Garments, hose, sox, ties, scarfs, knit dresses, blankets, sweaters, overcoats, children's clothes, all at factory prices. The Original Utah Woolen Mills Briant Stringham, Manager Sold by J 28 Richards Street Wasatch 500 y ICE CREAM CANDY: CAKE PUNCHES av? Special Sunday Bricks and Neapolitan Bricks 25¢ pt., 50c qt. Call Your Keeley's Dealer. - Extra packed in ice. TEMPLE AND BURIAL CLOTHES COMPLETE SUITS FOR MEN AND WOMEN Prompt and Careful Attention To Mail—Telephone—Telegraph Orders Open Daily, 9 a. M.—5 p. M. GENERAL BOARD RELIEF SOCIETY Phone Wasatch 3286, 29 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah Variety of Grades and Prices. When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine Utah Power & Light Co. Salt Lake City Ask for one of our folders describing the different services we offer. Ome LAUNDRY \ Hyland 190 Distinctive Work Office 319 S. Main St. We shoulda drunk more milk when we wuz, kids For The New Year A lamp will be more appreciated than See almost anything  Look over of Gon big assortment at lowest prices. Ost will make gifts highly appreciated for. 9 F See us for suggestions.  CLOVER LEAF DAIRY Electrical Dealers and Contractors 159 W. 1st So. Was. 2177 L Agents for National Mazda Lamps INDIVIDUAL  86 Glasses SACRAMENT SETS recommended BY PATRONS. REFERENCES FURNISHED. So Made especially for L D. S. ' Churches, and successfully used in Utah and intermountain region, also in all Missions in the United States, Europe, and Pacific Islands. Basic metal, Nickle Silver, heavily plated with Solid Silver. SIMPLE, SANITARY, DURABLE Satisfaction guaranteed. Inquiries cheerfully answered. Bureau of Information Temple Block Salt Lake City When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine beautiful in design. We also carry a full line of Electrical appliances, which the continued service they give. Our Guarantee back of every article we sell. YOUNG SAMSON knows what he's aiming at—a bottle of our rich, creamy milk. It's a ringer every time, and the prize is health. CONTENTS 1928 Frontispiece Prayer Carrie Tanner 3 Portrait of Mrs. Ivy Houtz Woolley....... 4 Waste Land............ Ivy Houtz Woolley 5 Portrait of Grace Ingles Frost........... 6 Compensation.......... Grace Ingles Frost 7 Moral Guidance of Youth...............Dean Milton Bennion 8 Editorial—New Year's Greeting........... 15 Celebrates Golden Wedding............. 16 Centenary of the Birth of Karl G. Maeser 18 Eliza R. Snow Poem Contest........... 19  Conference Addresses— Inez Knight Allen..................Ida Peterson Beal................ Louise Y. Robison................ 25 Jennie B. Knight................. 27 Amy Brown Lyman............. Clarissa S. Williams................... 32 Book Review.........35 Notes from the Field... Amy Brown Lyman 38 Guide Lessons for March.............. 46 A Beautiful Custom......... Organ of the Relief Society of the Church Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints Room 20 Bishop's Bldg. Salt Lake City, Utah $1.00 a Year—Single Copy, 10c _ Foreign, $1.25 a Year—15e Single Copy Entered as second-class matter at the. Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah Phone Wasatch 3123  VOL. XV JANUARY, 1928 NO. 1 Prayer By Carrie Tanner A prayer is soul-sent wish, whispered still, By mystic power borne through vaulted blue To that bright realm where only prayers most true E'er reach the Majesty of sacred will. He grants—or stays with purpose kind, until In justice great, or mercy sweet, He heeds Our humble wish and heavy mortal needs With gracious love, and earthly measures fill To overflow. How meager the estate Of those who ne'er this sweetest joy doth know, Whose hearts clutch fast grim avarice and hate, Disdaining Him from whom all blessings flow. O prayer that gives the soul a peace divine! O prayer, dear privilege great, the gift is Thine!
MRS. IVY HOUTZ WOOLLEY
The sand, the sun, The waves of heat, The constant beat Of blazing noon Upon each dune, The gray, the dun.
GRACE INGLES FROST
Compensation Grace Ingles Frost
Poem awarded second prize in the Eliza Roxey Snow Poetry contest.
I have walked with Sorrow, And I have dwelt with pain, But I have known a splendor That follows after rain.
I have looked with longing, At the majesty of death, And, with rapture, gazed upon A child's first quivering breath.
I have watched the tempest At night brood o'er the sea, And heard the waves at dawning Voice tones of Deity.
I have seen the fury Of storm-lashed mountain-crest; I have viewed the glory Of hills when sun-caressed.
I have felt the heart'ning thrill That heralds birth of day, And harkened unto matins In birds blithe roundelay.
'Tis wondrous compensation To know such ecstasy,— I have walked with Sorrow, But Love has guided me!
THE Relief Society Magazine VOL. XV JANUARY, 1928 No. 1
Moral Guidance of Youth (Conference Address) By Dean Milton Bennion
The chief business of each generation is the rearing and educating of the next, and the social purpose of the family is primarily the perpetuation of the race and the proper training and development of the new generation. It is often said that education is the chief business of the state. That is as old as Plato; it was set forth clearly in Plato's time, and has come to be realized in our own time and country. There has, in our own state, been a good deal of talk about the large amount of money spent for education. It has been found that usually somewhat more than 50% of the revenues of the state, from taxation, are spent for education. This, it seems to me, is as it should be, and there should be no complaint that it costs the state more to educate the children than it does to take care of criminals and pay for administration in other respects.
Education is itself a very complex thing. We speak often of physical education, intellectual education and of moral and spiritual education, each one of which, of course, can be analyzed into very many details. I call attention to the fact that physical education, physical strength and health are of no value in themselves. It depends on what use we make of them. It is possible for a person to have very great strength, and health in perfection, but to make no better use of these qualities than to engage in prize-fighting, which is forbidden by law in most of the states of the union. Even intellectual education of itself is without value, and again it depends on what use we make of it. A person may have very keen intelligence, be possessed of vast stores of knowledge, and yet use this knowledge and intelligence to defraud his fellow men—he may be one of the greatest rogues in the country. Dr. John R. Park said that if he found a man was immoral, he would refuse to educate him, because it would give him more power for evil.
While we may say that education is the chief business of civilized men, whether we consider them as a community, as a state, as a church,
MORAL GUIDANCE OF YOUTH 9
or as a family, we may say that whatever the field of education, moral and religious guidance is the chief problem of education, and whether or not other phases of education have value, depends on whether or not we succeed in this moral and spiritual development. With proper habits and attitudes and ideals developed in the youth, health and physical strength, knowledge and intellectual power, then become things of great value because they give greater power and efficiency to the person who is possessed of right ideals and attitudes and habits, and who can therefore be of increased service to his fellowman.
In this process of education there are a good many agencies that are jointly responsible. Even the question of moral education is not the business of one agency alone. I have known prominent educators who have objected to the idea that we should divide this responsibility, and say that the family must have a certain responsibility, and the school, and the church, and so on. They have wanted to lay the whole thing on one agency, so that it could not be shirked. It seems that a matter of such importance cannot be carried by one agency alone, and that each one should make its proper contribution. We should name among these agencies, first the family, then the school, the church, the state, and the community life in its industrial and social aspect. The Relief Society as a family service organization, and as an auxiliary of the Church, is concerned primarily with moral guidance as it relates to the family, the Church, and the general community life.
Moral guidance is founded upon moral training, and moral training begins in infancy. The family responsibility must therefore come first and must continue as most fundamental. The Relief Society, as I conceive it, is concerned with moral and spiritual needs of family life and of the community, no less than with their physical needs. We have been accustomed to think of the Relief Society as an organization that looks out primarily for people's physical needs, and it has served very worthily in that respect, and continues to do so. I do not wish to infer that that is to be neglected or under-rated in value, but it does seem to me that there is also another mission for the society and in some respects a more far-reaching and significant one, and that is the moral and spiritual welfare of family and community life.
Young parents need counsel on family problems, and especially on moral training of children and moral guidance in general. These may be summarized under two general headings, as the development of self-restraint as the primary and foundation principle in moral training, and then on the basis of this power of self-restraint the development of the power of self-direction.
A child or a man who wants what he wants when he wants it, and can always get it, becomes a tyrant wherever he may be found. He is a moral danger to himself and to the community,
10 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
not having learned the first lesson of self-restraint. This lesson should begin with the infant in arms. I often think that the infant in arms begins, then and there, to acquire the power to get whatever he wants at the particular moment when he wants it, by crying for it. The lesson of self-restraint should be learned in infancy in some measure, under a mother's wise care and regulation of infant life. The mother, with expert help if necessary, should determine the child's needs, and so train him that he will not form the habit of crying for things he should not have. Mother love should be tempered with knowledge and wisdom. This kind of moral training is essential as a basis for moral guidance in later life.
Child activity begins with play. Work in minor forms, such as various kinds of family service, may begin early and be gradually increased, but not to the point of causing mental or physical injury. Training in reasonable service is as essential in moral development as in other forms of educational activity. Our child labor laws are not meant to prevent children from doing any kind of work; they are to prevent children from being put into work that is monotonous and long continued and that tends to strain their physical and mental powers. They are to keep children out of factories and such employment. But we have in our own country and our own state other problems not regulated by law which are just as important. In modern city life it is a problem to find some sort of suitable employment for children. If they do nothing but play and go to school, there is likely to be a very important element of character neglected. It is especially important that they should have employment suited to their age and condition, and the fact that many of them do not and cannot find employment raises a serious problem in the community. Running wild on the streets with nothing to do is a calamity. There is no condition more favorable for developing bad habits, and acquiring attitudes that are bad, than to have youths running the streets because there is no suitable employment available for them.
It is also a fact that at this age, they need some variety of vocational experience. A young person cannot choose wisely a vocation without having some experience in the practice of some vocation. A boy will frequently think he wants to qualify for a certain line of work when he has no idea of what that means, and perhaps cannot have a very good idea until he has some vocational experience in, or closely related to that work, which may change his idea altogether. He must find out by trial or experiment what abilities and powers he has, and that means that he must get in and have opportunity to use them.
Closely allied with this is the problem of choosing a vocation. A very important part of the moral guidance of youth is to furnish him with a great deal of information about vocations
MORAL GUIDANCE OF YOUTH 11
and wise counsel with respect to the choice of a vocation. There should be proper stimulation and guidance in the preparation for a vocation. Our modern industrial business and professional world has become very complex and as our civilization becomes complex, vocations multiply. There is more and more specialization required and if the people are going to succeed well in life and do their part of the world's work, each person must choose wisely a vocation and qualify for it, and then he must find a place where he can fit in, for the particular vocation for which qualification has been made. It is one of the most important problems of youth of the present time. I meet young people who have gotten far enough along to be in college who are uncertain as to what vocation to follow and they cannot figure it out, many of them. It is a serious problem.
A young person has to know something of his own abilities and powers. He should choose a vocation in which he has enough ability to excel and it must be a kind really in demand by society, and that renders real service to the community. If he happens to choose a vocation in which he cannot succeed, it means failure, and failure means discouragement in starting all over again. There are grown men in this community, well on in years, whose lives have been marred seriously and whose usefulness has been diminished by the fact that they did not get into the right vocation in the first place. Then again, a young person may be qualified in a vocation and may not be able to succeed in it, because so many others in the community have qualified in the same vocation, and so he cannot get sufficient employment. I mention this to show some of the complexities of the problem, and if those who are older cannot lend some aid to help young people in solving these difficulties, I do not know what can be done about it. The school may furnish vocational information, but this matter of guidance is something that is a very personal matter. In the schools we have to handle the students in large groups, and we have little opportunity for personal counsel and close acquaintanceship such as we have in the home, where the young people should be intimate with their parents, and those who deal with the family life, as the Relief Society does through the ward meetings and lessons and the system of teachers and visitation, and to some extent through professional service in the home. It would seem to me that there is great opportunity for the Relief Society.
Vocational guidance applies not only to boys but also to girls. It seems to me that there is the same necessity to guide girls. Every girl, in my opinion, should choose and qualify for a vocation in which she can be independent financially, and in which she can be of greater service to society. I say usually that a girl should qualify for two vocations, so that she may be prepared for any emergency, for certainly it is true that there is a considerable percentage of the women of the community who do not marry. I think statistics
12 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
which have been given out not long since are to the effect that about 70% of women in this country marry, leaving 30% unmarried; and, of course, nobody knows who is to be in the 70% and who is in the 30%. But apart from that, suppose we know that a young woman is going to marry at the age of 25 or younger, I still think there is necessity for that young woman to choose a vocation and qualify for it. Nobody knows when a woman who is married may be thrown upon her own resources, as many women are, and if a woman is qualified in a vocation in which she can render expert service, she has something to fall back upon and can make her way in the world and support children, if she has them, to the extent that her strength and facilities make it possible.
Closely allied is the question of developing the right attitude toward property and service. Many young people look about to see how they can earn the most money in the easiest way. This is a very unethical attitude. It is immoral for a person to take that attitude toward a vocation. The first consideration in choosing a vocation is, "How can I render the greatest service?" Service should come first and that attitude should be fixed well in the minds of young people. Any vocation that is not a real service to society should be entirely eliminated. Some people we have in our community now, who are following a vocation forbidden by law, and when these people are convicted of following that vocation, they are sent to jail! We should consider the various forms of service that society really needs to keep up the standards of civilization and to carry on the work of the world. Such forms of service are legitimate vocations, and the young person who looks at it from that angle will consider as a second question the problem of remuneration. People ordinarily have to make a living by their vocations, although there are a few fortunate individuals who follow vocations without any compensation because they have other means of living.
Our attitude toward property, like our attitude to physical health and strength, should also be that property is a means to an end and should never be pursued as an end in itself. A very large part of trouble in the world is due to love of money; it is "the root of all evil" as Paul said, and money should not be set up as a goal in itself. Property is a means to an end, and those with considerable property should regard themselves as stewards of this property and see that it is used in a beneficial way. All property, whether publicly or privately owned, should be used for the good of the community.
In addition to developing this purpose of vocational aim and vocational service, there are other forms of service, and it is an important thing in the moral guidance of youth to develop also other life purposes—purposes in which an individual may give gratuitous service in addition to following a vocation. We have in the Church a very great many examples of that. We see many
MORAL GUIDANCE OF YOUTH 13
young men and women who serve the Church in the missionary field with no thought of compensation whatever. One who is sincere and has such a purpose, has something that is a powerful factor in molding his character. We do not develop character by sitting down and telling the young person not to do this and not to do that. That youthful energy will break out at some other spot. The young have an outlet for energy, an outlet that will lead them to strive for worthy ends, to realize high ideals. Then the overflow generally will take care of itself. There are occasions, of course, where they may have to be admonished against doing this, or that, or the other, but there should always be provided a legitimate outlet for energy and they should be stimulated to set up high and worthy purposes to realize. Moral guidance should be largely positive rather than negative. Self-restraint is a factor, but even that is developed largely through the positive pursuit of high purposes; and in the positive pursuit of high purposes, there is developed power of self-direction in agreement with these high purposes and moral and spiritual ideals.
Young people should be encouraged; they should realize their own powers and how valuable those powers are, and also how valuable their time is. I ask my students to budget their time, to make out a budget of their time for the whole quarter, and to determine what they are going to do with every hour in the day and with every day in the week. Then, when they find that they can improve their budget, they modify and improve it, and in an emergency they can modify it. Time is more valuable than money; see that you have a systematic way of taking care of it.
There is a question of the cooperation and coordination of agencies about which I should say a word: cooperation and coordination of home, school, church, and community life, always with the idea of strengthening home life. I think sometimes that with the many organizations we have in the Church, and that with these organizations sometimes working rather independently of one another and competing with one another for the time and attention of young people, and each anxious to furnish recreation for its members, that the young people are drawn away from home, and home becomes a most insignificant place. I fear young people are overdone with recreation and amusement. A few days ago I was at a convention, and one of the members of the Council of Twelve remarked, "I cannot see the idea of dragging people out and making them take recreation." That is the point we reach sometimes—we have so much of it. The Church itself is the coordinating agency in which every organization should have a part, and the matter should not be overdone. We should strengthen the home by home entertainment, by cultivating simple and wholesome tastes, such as reading, music, companionship and worthwhile conversation. We need more of all of these in the home,
14 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
for one of the great safeguards of moral life is the cultivation of simple, intellectual tastes that minister to the development of intellectual and moral life. Such activities are much more preferable than having young people chasing all over the country, running automobiles costing more money than young people should spend, or having them tempted to dishonesty to secure such pleasures. Many a man has gone to the penitentiary for embezzlement because he attempted to gratify tastes too expensive for his financial situation and tried to keep up with so-called higher standards of society life. Young people should learn to entertain themselves and to enjoy life through their own activity much more than they do. It would be not only a matter of wholesome life to them here and now, but would mean much for them later in life. In old age, for instance, a person who has cultivated these tastes may be very happy and able to entertain himself. The same thing is true in invalidism. The other day I was told of a woman who had been active all her life with society affairs and had never cultivated such tastes, and when she became an invalid for two years before her death, she did not know what to do with herself. She had no resources within herself, and was miserable all the time.
There has been very rapid progress recently in our material civilization and in the social and recreational activities in which people engage, old and young, On the other hand, the moral and spiritual progress has been slow. I make an appeal to reverse the process. I do not mean by that that we shall undervalue material comforts and gains, but that we shall lay more stress upon the moral and spiritual development of people.
Shall the following conditions be turned to good or evil account? Increase in luxury: (Our luxuries are used to a large extent to our detriment. The possession of wealth may be turned to good account if expended on things to secure simple and inexpensive taste, and not misspent on things injurious to us. If we can provide our homes with better books, and with musical instruments, we are contributing to moral development and moral welfare. If we spend our means on candy and gum and worse things, as many people are acquiring the habit of doing, then they become a detriment.)
Shortening of the working hours: (It has been observed that the shortening of the working hours tends to contribute to delinquency, because the leisure hours are wrongly spent.)
Lengthening of the "period of infancy:" (When people are engaged in education rather than in work; but if that is properly correlated with learning to work, we have an asset instead of a detriment.)
Increase in amusements.
One of the leading activity organizations in this country, devoted solely to the problem of moral education, "The Pathfinders of America," with headquarters in Detroit, have this for their motto: "Make Virtue More Attractive Than Vice." That is our problem in dealing with young people. May God help us to do so.
THE RELIEF SOCIETY OF THE CHURCH OF JESUS CHRIST OF LATTER-DAY SAINTS
Motto—Charity Never Faileth
THE GENERAL BOARD
MRS. CLARISSA SMITH WILLIAMS President MRS. JENNIE BRIMHALL KNIGHT First Counselor MRS. LOUISE YATES ROBINSON Second Counselor MRS. AMY BROWN LYMAN General Secretary and Treasurer
Mrs. Emma A. Empey Mrs. Julia A. F. Lund Mrs. Julia A. Child Mrs. Nettie D. Bradford Mrs. Rosannah C. Irvine Mrs. Annie Wells Cannon Mrs. Jeanette A. Hyde Mrs. Amy Whipple Evans Mrs. Cora L. Bennion Mrs. Elsie R. Alder Miss Alice Louise Reynolds Mrs. Lalene H. Hart Miss Sarah M. McLelland Mrs. Ethel Reynolds Smith Mrs. Inez K. Allen Mrs. Lotta Paul Baxter Mrs. Barbara Howell Richards Mrs. Ida P. Beal
Mrs. Lizzie Thomas Edward, Music Director Miss Edna Coray, Organist
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
Editor CLARISSA SMITH WILLIAMS Associate Editor ALICE LOUISE REYNOLDS Assistant Manager AMY BROWN LYMAN
Room 28, Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah
Magazine entered as second-class matter at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah
VOL. XV JANUARY, 1928 No. 1
EDITORIAL
New Year's Greetings
With New Year's greetings from President Williams and the General Board we review the work of the past year in the Relief Society with intense interest and intense satisfaction. We congratulate the officers and members on the spirit of progress that has animated their work. All signs point to the fact that Relief Society workers are satisfied with nothing but the best as they appear very generally to be seeking out the best.
In Canada we find them connecting up with the colleges of the Dominion and making good use of the traveling libraries of that region. In California they are in touch with the latest information available for their social service work from the members of the faculty of the University of California, at Berkeley, while in Southern California they are no doubt making good use of the Los Angeles University and the University of Southern California. We have as one of stake presidents a woman who has been on the Extension Division of the University of Wyoming, so that we know that our Relief Society workers in Wyoming are reaching out to centers of learning. The same thing is doubtless true in Arizona, for everywhere the women are turning to educational centers for bulletins on subjects pertaining to the work of the organization.
In Utah, the University of Utah, the Brigham Young
16 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
University and the Agricultural College all serve the organization to an extent that is sometimes astonishing. One stake organization in a rural community has the reputation of utilizing practically everything the Agricultural College sends out. Very recently the literary leaders of the Salt Lake City stakes procured the services of Professor B. Roland Lewis, who gave them an address on Vachel Lindsay, the literature lesson of the month. The Brigham Young University is made use of in communities throughout the West. As many as six members of the faculty, in one week, have been known to appear before Relief Society audiences, and its Leadership week carries a course which is of special interest to Relief Society workers.
While all of these things tell of the forward march of the work we are increasingly grateful year by year for the restoration of the gospel, for as years pass on it becomes more and more our most precious possession. We are living in a transitional period when leaders, newspapers and magazines declare that the world needs religious leadership and when one leader, Dr. Cadman, calls for a truce on all arguments and asks that people live up to the things of which they have knowledge. To this suggestion a number of leading papers and magazines reply that few religious leaders of our time have any well defined notions on theological subjects. In the midst of such confusion it is gratifying to know that many thousands of Relief Society workers are entirely clear on the most vital matters of our religion. Such matters as the existence of God, the divinity of Christ, the divinity of the Bible and the Book of Mormon, and the restoration of the gospel and the priesthood. There are many people in the world who would give much if they had the certainty of knowledge, on such matters, possessed by hundreds of thousands in the religious group known as the Latter-day Saints, for many people find themselves in much the same position as the great Belgian playwright, Maeterlinck, when he exclaimed, "If we knew but one thing to be true would we not give our all." Consequently, as Latter-day Saints, as members of the Relief Society, we hail the New Year in a spirit of progress, on the one hand, and in a spirit of faith and devout trust in our Father in Heaven on the other. In the midst of a world of increasing material interest and apparently increasing religious difficulties, ours is certainly a joyous state.
President of International Council of Women Celebrates Golden Wedding
During the time that our General Board representatives are attending the biennial conference of the National Council of
EDITORIAL 17
Women held in New York City, it is particularly gratifying to extend to the President of the International Council of Women, Lady Aberdeen, and her husband, Lord Aberdeen, felicitations on their golden wedding anniversary, which occurred November 7, 1927.
Lord and Lady Aberdeen have spent a harmonious wedded life together. Each has been called to prominent official positions and each has given the other splendid support. Two outstanding events marked the year 1927 for Lady Aberdeen, for, on March 14 of that year she celebrated her 70th birthday and on November 7 her golden wedding. Lady Aberdeen has served the International Council of Women long and well. The first period of her presidency covered the time from 1893 to 1899. At the Congress in London Mrs. May Wright Sewell, of the United States, was elected president and served in that capacity until the close of the Berlin Congress, in 1904. At that Congress Lady Aberdeen was again elected president and with the exception of the two years, from 1920 to 1922, when Madame Chaponniere-Chaix, of Geneva, filled the office, has held the position ever since. Such devoted service entitles her to the most thoughtful consideration.
We copy from the notes of the March Bulletin of the International Council of Women a note from Lady Aberdeen, referring to her illness in the early part of the year, that tends to reveal a good deal of her character:
"My first words this month must be words of deep and affectionate gratitude to the host of I. C. W. Friends who have sent to Lord Aberdeen and myself such touching messages of sympathy, concern, and good wishes during my recent illness.
"It is indeed an inspiration to receive such letters as those which have come to the House of Cromar during the last month, from many different parts of the world.
"It is a wonderful privilege to be permitted to work for great causes in company with comrades who show at such times as the present how strong are the links of personal attachment between women of so many races and countries who are bound together to carry on all our work for the I. C. W. In the spirit of the Golden Rule.
"By God's mercy I am allowed to remain with you all for a while longer, and since Lord Aberdeen, as I need not tell you, is a firm believer in the potentiality of the I. C. W. To accomplish its mission, as I am myself, I still hope to do all in my power to further that mission, although for a time that work must be done from my own home.
"Again, dear friends of the I. C. W., and of all the National Councils, accept heartfelt thanks from Lord Aberdeen and myself for all your goodness to me."
"Isabel Aberdeen and Temair."
18 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
On the occasion of the Golden Wedding, which occurred November 7, 1927, the International Council presented Lord and Lady Aberdeen with a beautiful motor car. In the editorial notes we find a paragraph which says:
"We have often wished to publish photographs in the Bulletin, but we have had to resist the temptation as our funds do not run to such extravagances. The Golden Wedding of the President, has, however, seemed to us a good occasion to make exception to this rule, and we therefore reproduce on our front page a photograph showing Lord and Lady Aberdeen at the door of the motor car that was given to them as a Golden Wedding present by many members of their large international family."
It is surely fitting after the long years of service, which always means great personal sacrifice, that Lady Aberdeen should receive this mark of recognition. The committee selecting the present should also be congratulated, for what could be more typical of the work of one who presides over an International Council than a vehicle that suggests travel to many parts of the world. We trust that Lord and Lady Aberdeen may live long to enjoy the present which has been extended with such hearty goodwill by all who are acquainted with her division of the International Council of Women.
Centenary of the Birth of Karl G. Maeser
On the 16th day of January, of this year, it will be 100 years since Karl G. Maeser saw the light of day in the far off city of Meissen, Germany. Much has been spoken and much has been written concerning positions of trust and importance occupied by men in the Church and Nation, who came under the inspiring and benign influence of Karl G. Maeser, as a teacher. But the credit is not all on the side of the men, for a goodly number of women, whose high privilege it was to claim him for principal and teacher, have been called to outstanding responsibilities in Church, State and national organizations of women.
The General Board of the Relief Society is no exception to the rule. In the years of its existence three of Karl G. Maeser's students, Mrs. Ida Smoot Dusenberry, Mrs. Jennie B. Knight and Mrs. Louise Y. Robison, have been called to fill the position of counselor to the president. Mrs. Amy Brown Lyman, who has served so long as general secretary of the organization was a student of Karl G. Maeser, also Mrs. Jeanette A. Hyde. Mrs. Susa Young Gates and Miss Alice Louise Reynolds, who have each in turn served as editors of the Relief Society Magazine, were his
EDITORIAL 19
students, and also Mrs. Julia A. Child, Mrs. Julia A. F. Lund and Mrs. Inez Knight Allen.
On the General Board of the Y. L. M. I. A. We find Mrs. Augusta W. Grant, Mrs. May Booth Talmage, Mrs. Emma Goddard, Mrs. Susa Young Gates, who edited the Young Woman's Journal for a number of years, and the late Mrs. Helen W. Woodruff. All these women came under Brother Maeser's precious tutelage, and all have carried forth in their lives the inspiration received from the great master teacher.
Karl G. Maeser's students have also been found on the General Board of the Primary. Notable among these is Mrs. Zina Y. Card.
At the present time Mrs. Jeanette A. Hyde is collector of customs at the port of Hawaii, having the distinction of being the first woman to receive such an appointment in the United States. Mrs. Lyman has served a term in the Utah state legislature where she championed the cause of the Shephard-Towner bill with unusual success. At present she is the recording secretary of the National Council of Women of the United States. She has been complimented several times by being asked to act on behalf of the president of the council, Dr. Valeria H. Parker. This was notably the case last summer when she was invited to go to Geneva.
Many of Dr. Maeser's students have served as delegates to national and international conventions, both in the United States and in Europe.
At the time of the demise of Karl G. Maeser, President Heber J. Grant, who was a speaker at the funeral services held in the Salt Lake tabernacle, said that if Karl G. Maeser had been the sole convert to the Church from the German nation his service to the Church had been worth all the effort and all the money spent by missionaries in that field. We feel sure that Dr. Maeser's students are in hearty accord with this sentiment of appreciation expressed by President Grant at the time of Karl G. Maeser's departure from this life. Many monuments have been erected to his memory, but the greatest of all monuments is the unbounded love and deep reverence that his hundreds of students have for him, which they cherish as a sacred heritage.
Eliza Roxey Snow Poem Contest
It is our pleasure once again to announce the winners in the Eliza Roxey Snow Poem Contest. This is the fifth year of the contest and in some respects at least, it is the outstanding year. In 1923 there were 47 entries, in 1924, 46, in 1925, 50, in 1926, 54 and in 1927 there are 65 entries. This shows an increase of 18 entries over the first year and 11 over last year's contest. Yet what is even more gratifying than the interest indicated by an
20 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
increased number of contestants is the fact that no fewer than 15 of our recognized writers entered the 1927 contest.
The winner of the first prize is Ivy Houtz Woolley of Ogden, Utah, who received the award for a poem entitled "Waste Land." The second prize of this year goes to Grace Ingles Frost of Provo, Utah, for a poem entitled "Compensation." The first poem to receive honorable mention is that of Phyllis Hodgson of Ogden, entitled "My Son;" the second is a poem by Amy M. Rice of San Jose, California, entitled "Mother's Evening Song," and the third is a poem by Alvaretta S. Engar of Salt Lake City, entitled "Ere the Roses Bloom."
The committee having charge of the 1927 contests consisted of Mrs. Julia A. Child, Mrs. Cora L. Bennion and Mrs. Barbara Howell Richards. The judges of the contest were: Professor B. Roland Lewis, of the University of Utah, Miss E. E. Hollis, of the Salt Lake Tribune and Mrs. Rosannah C. Irvine of the General Board. The judges felt that their task was particularly difficult, not so much as regards the first poem as a number of very competent persons agreed, but great difficulty was expressed in selecting the poem for second prize and the three for honorable mention. One of the judges remarked that any one of five poems might easily be given second place. We mention this to encourage those who entered and to assure our contestants that when judges are forced to select one from a number of excellent poems they often find the task extremely difficult.
The Magazine extends congratulations to the winners and to all contestants whose entries have made this year's contest truly notable. We also take this opportunity of thanking the judges for their important share in the work.
The New Cover
The General Board takes pleasure in presenting the Magazine in a new cover. The design is the work of C. Nelson White, an artist whose work is well known in a number of magazines throughout the United States. Readers of the Saturday Evening Post and the Ladies' Home Journal may now and again have noticed sketches from Mr. White in those periodicals. He is familiar to people throughout the Church because of the excellent work he has been doing for years on the Children's Friend.
Editors' Notes
The name of the writer of the article entitled "Dixie's Santa Clause," published in the December issue of the magazine, was
EDITORIAL 21
omitted for lack of room. The story was written by Mrs. Annie Atkin Tanner.
We are adding A. E. Housman to the Literature Lesson for March as it will make us acquainted with two well-known poets of England at the present time, rather than one.
Appreciation
President Clarissa S. Williams and members of the General Board wish to express appreciation for all the messages of cheer and good will that have come to the office from Relief Societies and Church workers everywhere during the holiday season that has just passed.
Mrs. Elsie T. Brandley Wins Prize Christmas Story
We are happy to congratulate Mrs. Elsie Talmage Brandley of the Editorial Staff of the Young Woman's Journal on winning the $25.00 prize offered by the Deseret News, for the Christmas poem of 1927. Mrs. Brandley has written a number of stories for the Relief Society Magazine. We appreciate the quality of her work and wish her success in the future.
Mrs. Lyman National Council Auditor
The Magazine extends heartiest congratulations to Mrs. Amy Brown Lyman, General Secretary of the Relief Society Board, who has recently been elected Auditor of the National Council of Women.
An Error Corrected
In the report of the General Conference of the Relief Society in the December issue of our Magazine the sketch entitled "How the Exponent was Started," by Lula Green Richards, contains a mistake which requires correction. Instead of Levi Edgar, as published, the name of Mrs. Richards' husband was Levi Willard Richards. The error is very much regretted and we can only hope that all who read or have read the brief but interesting sketch will also notice this correction.
Conference Addresses
Inez Knight Allen Newly Appointed Member of General Board
I am sure most of you, who are officers in the Church, can sympathize with me at this moment. When I was quite a young girl, I received a patriarchal blessing in which I was promised that, if I lived for it, I might associate with the choice people of the earth. I feel now that in the opportunity I have of associating with these wonderful women of the General Board, and with you as officers in the Relief Society, that the promise which was made to me so long ago is being abundantly fulfilled.
I was promised also in that blessing that I would be called to positions of responsibility in the Church, but that did not mean much to me then. I remember when I was still a young girl meeting my bishop one day, and he said, "Sister Inez, I have been thinking lately that I would call on you to join the Relief Society in the ward and see if you can help the sisters out in their work." Of course, he was thinking about the benefit it would be to me, but I did not appreciate that from my bishop, and when I left him, I thought, "I wonder how old he thinks I am, anyway; I wonder if he thinks I am going to join the Relief Society!' I did not go near the Relief Society, and soon forgot he had ever mentioned it or that there was a Relief Society. Two or three years after that, I found myself a missionary away over in England, and when I received a letter from the president of the mission saying he desired me to go on a journey of about fifty miles into another conference to help organize a Relief Society, I thought about it then and wished I had paid more attention to the advice of my bishop. I consulted with my conference president, who fortunately was the husband of a Relief Society woman and knew something about the work, and he helped me out the best he could. Some of us have to learn by hard experience the lesson of obedience. I remember another lesson I had while I was a missionary. I had labored for six months in Bristol conference. After leaving it, and going to labor in the London conference, I felt lonely and rather homesick, and I was always wishing I could go back to Bristol where I knew the Saints and loved them and felt that they loved me. So when they had conference in Bristol I went 'to the conference president and told him I would like to attend the Bristol conference. He told me how busy they were in my new field of labor, and he did not think I should go over to Bristol to conference. But I wanted to go and take my new missionary companion and have her meet all the nice people in Bristol that CONFERENCE ADDRESSES 23 I knew, and so I insisted, and he finally said that he would let us off for a day or two to go. The day before the conference, we were invited to eat luncheon at the mission house, and when we went there, we noticed little groups of people in the streets and around in the yard, and other groups gathering in the street, and finally there was a big mob of people in the street, and they began throwing stones through the windows. They broke out all the windows, and finally -President Lyman said, "This is no place for you sisters; you'd better go back to your own apartments." My brother started to take us, and when we went out of the house into the mob, they said, '"'There is one of them and his two wives,' and we were the targets and they began throwing stones and filth out of the gutter at us. My brother finally got us to the police station, and they succeeded in dispersing the mob, and took us through an underground tunnel back to our lodgings. Later, the president sent a note, telling us to take the train at 6:30 next morning and go back to London, which we did. Besides these lessons, I have had blessings at the hands of my heavenly Father when I have tried to be obedient to him. One of these blessings came when I was first called as a missionary. We attended a conference, and with fear and trembling we spoke at the. Meeting, but felt that we had not said anything worthwhile. Twenty years later a letter came from a man in Idaho who said that if he had not heard our testimonies at that meeting, he might not have been led to think more about the gospel. He sent this letter of appreciation on a Thanksgiving day, after twenty years. If we trust the Lord and do as the Prophet Nephi did, and know as he knew that the Lord calls upon us to do nothing but that he will help to prepare us to do, we are sure of his blessings. Paul tells us in Galatians that the "fruits of the spirit are love, joy, peace, longsuffering, gentleness, goodness, faith, meekness, temperance." I am sure we observe the fruits of that spirit when we mingle with President Williams whom we all love, with the good sisters of the General Board, with the sisters away out in the far districts, wherever we find them engaged in this Relief Society work. Where do we gather the fruits and flowers from the tree in the garden? Isn't it out on the twigs and branches of the trees? Where do we find the light coming from the big power plants? It is in the little globes, if they are in order to receive the light and are properly connected. So it is with us. If we are prepared to receive the Spirit of our heavenly Father, then the light of the gospel shines in us and our heavenly Father is glorified. -_ Surely the women in all this Relief Society are struggling in a big, progressive way to do that which is best for them, and for the cause, and I doubt not that in a day to come, our heavenly Father will say to these good women, "For I was an hungered, 24 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE and ye gave me meat: I was thirsty, and ye gave me drink: I was a stranger, and ye took me in: naked, and ye clothed me: I was sick, and ye visited me: I was in prison, and ye came unto me. Inasmuch as ye have done it unto one of the least of these my brethren, ye have done it unto me." I pray that the Spirit of the Lord will help us in our work, that we may work unitedly together for the good of this hi gospel which has been revealed to us. Ida Peterson Beal NEWLY APPOINTED MEMBER OF GENERAL BOARD More than I can tell you this afternoon, I appreciate being here, not so much in addressing you, but in partaking of the wonderful spirit that has been so manifest in our meetings today. I am so grateful to my heavenly Father for all the blessings that he has showered upon me, and upon mine, and I pray that I may always walk in humility and in obedience before him, that I may be always willing to give my time and my talents to his service. Today we listened to a most wonderful address by a sister who took part in the pioneering of the Relief Society in the early days. As she gave us this splendid address, I thought of the marvelous things that those women had done and what a firm and splendid and broad foundation they had made for us to build upon so that we could erect upon this foundation a beautiful edifice and embellish it with our moral, our physical, our spiritual and our intellectual accomplishments. I hope we are going to make the Relief Society what it was intended to be. When I think of what our parents sacrificed to come here for the gospel's sake, the thought has often gone through my mind, are we, as their children, making their dreams, their sacrifices come true? Are we living as they desired that we should live? I hope we are, and that we shall accomplish all they hoped we would. Their idea was not that we should erect to their honor monuments of stone and wood, but monuments of noble manhood and glorious and virtuous womanhood. We cannot let their dreams be unfulfilled. Let us take from the simple things at hand and build our happiness. Within us are treasures which, if rightly cultivated, will lead to great peace, joy and satisfaction. We cannot build our lives or reach our goal with other's talents. We must use the talents with which God has blessed us—our time, our gifts and our talents. Let us lay aside discontent with the things that we have. Let us take hold of the things that we have and build a structure that will reach up and up and onward, and through this we shall be richly blessed and greatly gratified. I feel weak in assuming this position, but when the call came CONFERENCE ADDRESSES _ 25 to me, I felt I had no reason to say other than, "I shall do the best I can." There is always a great joy in being willing to be led. "Do not spurn to be a lesser light because you are not a star, But brighten some bit of darkness by shining just where you are." If we will all realize that we have work to do and that we should do it to the very best of our ability, we shall not fail, and the special work to which we have been assigned will not be a failure. If we fail in what has been given us to do, then just that little part has gone awry. I pray our heavenly Father to strengthen us in all we attempt to do that is right and proper, and that we may glorify his name by living lives worthy of emulation; and I pray for his continued blessings upon us all. Louise Y. Robison I would like to preface my talk this afternoon with a little verse from the Doctrine and Covenants, 82nd section, verse 14. "For Zion must increase in beauty, and in holiness; her borders must be enlarged; her stakes must be strengthened, yea, verily I say unto you, Zion must arise and put on her beautiful garments." I testify to you this afternoon that the Relief Society has helped Zion put on her beautiful garments during this Summer. While the General Board always knows that the women in the stakes are faithful in doing anything that is asked of them, they were entirely unprepared for the excellent results that have been realized from our teachers' topics on Civic Pride. In every stake we have visited, we have had glowing reports of what the women have accomplished, of the beauty that has been brought to the communities through the efforts of you dear Relief Society women. The reports are so wonderful; I wish we had room in the Magazine for them and for the beautiful flower displays. We have had flower shows in many of the stakes that have been an inspiration and a surprise to all the members of the stake. I should like to read a few of the activities of the civic pride work that has been accomplished. We have reports of how many trees have been planted, of how boys have cleared up weeds from door yards, and of the flowers planted there. Of wards which are furnishing flowers for every sacrament meeting. In one of the wards (and this is typical of others,) the ward officers cooperated with the city officials, and the mayor said, "All of the people in my city belong to you women; have your clean-up campaign, and our trucks and tractors and cars are at your disposal." And in one little town where there were two wards, 316 men worked on the street all day long, and the two ward Relief Societies furnished them dinner. The officers of the Chamber 26 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE of Commerce were so pleased about this that they gave complimentary tickets to the picture show to all of the workers. In the flower show in one stake, they found they did not quite understand the grouping of the flowers which they brought in tubs and jars, but in the awarding of the prizes, the judges taught them better how to group the flowers and that it was not the quantity as much as the quality of the display, that counted. This stake president said, "This year has just taught us how we can have beauty in the next flower show. Next year I shall ask the judges to visit all the booths and make constructive criticism and tell why some displays are not the best." In one stake every teacher in one of the wards was responsible for planting a tree upon the meeting house grounds. Can you think how that is beautifying the stakes of Zion? I think some of these statistics are almost unbelievable, but in three stakes 20,486 loads of manure were carried away, and think of how many flies that helped to prevent. In one stake the fight against the fly was through-preventive measures almost entirely. They cooperated with a large industry there, and through the efforts of the Relief Society, this industry donated a large quantity of lime. City or county trucks were obtained to carry this lime to different parts of the stake, where signs were put up, inviting people to help themselves, and through that preventive measure many breeding places were eliminated. Some stakes have reported the number of flies killed. Some of you who live in localities where you haven't many flies will hardly believe it, but some of the rest of you will believe it when I tell you that one stake gave prizes for flies captured, and that 685 quarts of flies were brought to the Relief Society. One ward took the prize, supplying more than 400 quarts. Early in the year when there were not so many flies, the stake bought them at the rate of 20c a quart; later, at 15c, and later still at lc a quart. This seems like a very ordinary thing to talk about, but I believe that if the mothers all knew and realized what diseases and destruction may be carried by flies they would work wholeheartedly for their entire destruction. One stake reported that 75% of the women planted flowers this year; 91% of the people owned their own vegetable gardens; 56% of the people of the whole stake planted trees and shrubs, and this refers not alone to the Latter-day Saints, but other groups which joined them. In one of the wards the mayor, not a member of the Church, was invited to the flower show, and he asked what prizes were to be given, and when told, he said, "I should like to supply the money for these prizes, and every year in the future the Relief Society can depend upon me to pay for any prizes offered for raising flowers in this community." In this stake 86 houses were painted, and 91 loads of gravel were hauled CONFERENCE ADDRESSES 27 for paths around the houses, and 175 days were spent on cleaning the streets. In one stake work was done on the cemetery. There was no water near it, so the Relief Society women went to the priesthood meeting and offered to buy the pipe to carry water to the cemetery, if the men would dig the trench; and it was done. There were two good slogans in the reports from the stakes. One was, "I will keep noxious weeds from seeding," and the other was, "There is beauty all around when it's clean at home." Those of you who have not had the satisfying experience of accomplishing these things in your stake during the year, we hope will have the opportunity another year. You splendid stake presidents and workers who have done such marvelous work, who have made the desert blossom as the rose, we pray God's blessings upon you, that you will take joy in your labors, that you will turn to the Doctrine and Covenants and read that section, for it is from our Father in heaven. "For Zion must increase in beauty, and in holiness; her borders must be enlarged; her stakes must be strengthened, yea, verily I say unto you, Zion must arise and put on her beautiful garments." (D. And C. 82:14.) Jennie B. Knight We have had a concrete demonstration, I think, this afternoon, of the varied activities of the Relief Society. In visiting the stakes, one of the deep impressions that has come to me has been the masterly way in which our Relief Society women have handled 'the subject of the Book of Mormon, and I want to say that my testimony has been strengthened in the divinity of this great book. I am thankful that we have taken this method of commemorating the one hundredth anniversary of the publication of this Book and I hope that each and every one of us will feel that we have a clearer knowledge of it. In the September issue of the Magazine, 1927, we find Mr. Charles H. Hull, Professor of American History at Cornell University quoted as saying, "I am perfectly willing to say to anyone that I suppose the Book of Mormon to be one of the most famous and widely discussed books ever published in America. I think an arguable case can be made for the assertion that it is the most famous and widely discussed book ever first published in America." And added to that, I can say it is the first American Scripture. To me it is a testimony that our heavenly Father recognized this American continent by giving to it a record of his works and his doctrines through the Book of Mormon, thus bestowing upon us the same favor and blessing that he bestowed upon the eastern hemisphere when he gave to them the Bible. I have been deeply impressed with the testimony of those who have 28 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE taken part in the discussion of this topic in the Relief Society conventions. The manner in which they have presented the fulfilment of the prophecies that were uttered by the Lamanite Prophet Samuel has been most gratifying. They have related how this prophet told them that on the night of the birth of the Savior there should be a continual day lasting thirty-six hours, and there was. In addition to this a star appeared in the heavens that never before had been seen. Samuel also prophesied of the great earthquakes and thunderings and lightnings and of the cities that should be burned and sunk and of the great desolation and sorrow that should come upon the people because they would not accept the doctrines taught by the Savior. Those who witnessed the star and other special manifestations obeyed the instructions given by the Savior and his disciples for a few years, but it was not long before they dwindled in unbelief. As I take the Book of Mormon and read it, I find in it a prophecy to the Gentiles of blessings that will come to them if they will believe it; it also reveals to the Lamanites their birth and ancestry. No other volume of Scripture pronounces so many wonderful blessings upon the Jews as does this Book of Mormon. I beseech you to read and study it because it will give you courage and faith in this great gospel of ours. I love to read in III Nephi of the visitation of the Savior to the people upon this continent, note how his voice came to the people, out of the midst of thunderings and lightnings and the moaning of the people, declaring, "I am Jesus Christ, the Son of God," and how it was heard by "all the inhabitants of the earth upon all the face of this land.' Before the great invention of the radio, only those who were not skeptical could believe this thing, that his voice could be heard upon all the face of the land. But the Prophet Nephi testified that "all the people did hear and did witness of it." And he told of the cities that had been sunk and of the mountains that had been raised up, and after they had heard this voice they repented of their sins. A little later on we read of his visiting the people of Nephi; gathered in the land Bountiful, around the temple, and I am going to read a little account of this part of his visit. He taught the people concerning the truths he had taught the people in Jerusalem, and I will read this one chapter, in the hope that when you go to your homes that you will re-read it. It says: "Behold, now it came to pass that when Jesus had spoken these words (which are similar to the Sermon on the Mount in the Bible) he looked round about again on the multitude, and he said unto them: Behold my time is at hand., "T perceive that ye are weak, that ye cannot understand all my words which I am commanded of the Father to speak unto you at this time. "Therefore, go ye unto your homes, and ponder upon the things which I have said, and ask of the Father, in my name, that ye may understand, and prepare your minds for the morrow, and I come unto you again, CONFERENCE ADDRESSES 29 "But now I go unto the Father, and also to show myself unto the lost tribes of Israel, for they are not lost unto the Father, for he knoweth whither he hath taken them.; "And it came to pass that when Jesus had thus spoken, he cast his eyes round about again on the multitude, and beheld they were in tears, and did look steadfastly upon him as if they would ask him to tarry a little longer with them. "And he said unto them: Behold, my bowels are filled with compassion towards you. "Have ye any that are sick among you? Bring them hither. Have ye any that are lame, or blind, or halt, or maimed, or leprous, or that are withered, or that are deaf, or that are afflicted in any manner? Bring them hither and I will heal them, for I have compassion upon you; my bowels are filled with mercy. "For I perceive that ye desire that I should show unto you what I have done unto your brethren at Jerusalem, for I see that your faith is sufficient that I should heal you. "And it came to pass that when he had thus spoken, all the multitude, with one accord, did go forth with their sick and their afflicted, and their lame, and with their blind, and with their dumb, and with all them that were afflicted in any manner; and he did heal them every one as they were brought forth unto him. "And they did all, both they who had been healed and they who were whole, bow down at his feet, and did worship him; and as many as could come for the multitude did kiss his feet, insomuch that they did bathe his feet with their tears. "And it came to pass that he commanded that their little children should be brought. "And so they brought their little children and sat them down upon the ground round about him, and Jesus stood in the midst; and the multitude gave way till they had all been brought unto him. "And it came to pass that when they had all been brought, and Jesus stood in the midst, he commanded the multitude that they should kneel down upon the ground. - "And it came to pass that when they had knelt upon the ground, Jesus groaned within himself, and saith: Father, I am troubled because of the wickedness of the people of the house of Israel. "And when he had said these words, he himself also knelt upon the earth; and behold he prayed unto the Father, and the things which he prayed cannot be written, and the multitude did bear record who heard him. "And after this manner do they bear record: The eye hath never seen, neither hath the ear heard, before, so great and marvelous things as we saw and heard Jesus speak unto the Father; "And no tongue can speak, neither can there be written by any man, neither can the hearts of men conceive so great and marvelous things as we both saw and heard Jesus speak; and no one can conceive of the joy which filled our souls at the time we heard him pray for us unto the Father. "And it came to pass that when Jesus had made an end of praying unto the Father, he arose; but so great was the joy of the multitude that they were overcome. "And it came to pass that Jesus spake unto them, and bade them arise. "And they arose from the earth, and he said unto them: Blessed are ye because of your faith. And now behold, my joy is full. "And when he had said these words, he wept, and the multitude bear record of it, and he took their little children, one by one, and blessed them, and prayed unto the Father for them. "And when he had done this he wept again; 30 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE "And he spake unto the multitude, and saith unto them: Behold your little ones. "And as they looked to behold, they cast their eyes toward heaven, and they saw the heavens open, and they saw angels descending out of heaven as it were in the midst of fire; and they came down and encircled those little ones about, and they were encircled about with fire; and the angels did minister unto them." (3 Nephi, 17.) Then he turned to the multitude of people and gave them a few instructions which are applicable to us today, and he said: "Verily, verily, I say unto you, ye must watch and pray always, lest ye be tempted by the devil, and ye are led away captive by him. And as I have prayed among you even so shall ye pray in my church, among my people who do repent and are baptized in my name. Behold I am the light; I have set an example for you. "And it came to pass that when Jesus had spoken these words unto his disciples, he turned again unto the multitude and said unto them: "Behold, verily, verily, I say unto you, ye must watch and pray always lest ye enter into temptation; for Satan desireth to have you, that he may sift you as wheat. "Therefore ye must always pray unto the Father in my name; "And whatsoever ye shall ask the Father in my name, which is right, believing that ye shall receive, behold it shall be given unto you. "Pray in your families unto the Father, always in my name, that your wives and your children may be blessed." (3 Nephi, 18:15-21.) May we apply this admonition given to the people of this continent years ago and carried over to us by our beloved prophet Joseph Smith, I ask in the name of Jesus. Amen. Amy Brown Lyman During the last few months my mind has dwelt upon some of the achievements of the last century, and I find that this last hundred years has contributed much to the progress of the world. It is no wonder that it has been called, and is known, as the wonderful century. My interest in this subject at this time is due to the fact that it is just one hundred years since the delivery of the plates containing the Book of Mormon to Joseph Smith, by the angel Moroni. In order to estimate the full importance of the last century, we must compare it, not with any preceding century, but with the whole period of the past, for it has contributed more to the progress of the world than all preceding time. It is true, of course, that there have been many failures; for example, the failure to eliminate war and establish permanent peace; the failure to eliminate poverty, crime and disease; but in spite of the failures there have been many outstanding accomplishments. Among the great achievements are: railways, steamships, automobiles and airships; electric telegraph, wireless telegraph, telephone, radio and phonograph; photography and moving pictures; friction CONFERENCE ADDRESSES 31 matches, gas illumination and electric lights; typewriting machines and sewing machines; anaesthetics, the use of which has made surgical operations painless; antiseptic surgery, which has made surgery safe; the germ theory of disease, which has made it possible to eliminate and control some of the most dreaded diseases; x-rays, which renders many opaque objects transparent; preventive health work, which has saved and prolonged life; prohibition. In the matter of human welfare work, also, there has been as much progress in the last hundred years as in all previous time. One hundred years ago, and less than one hundred years ago, dependents with any degree of working ability were hired out to the highest bidder; and the infirm and helpless and orphans were turned over for care to the lowest bidder. The county infirmaries, or poor houses as they were known, housed and cared for all classes of dependents and defectives. These were all huddled together: tramps, vagrants, drunkards, insane, feeble-minded, epileptics, blind, deaf, orphans, confinement cases and contagious diseases. In the jails were housed professional criminals, innocent people awaiting trial, boys and girls arrested for trivial offenses, and prostitutes. Great progress has been made in the last hundred years. The insane have been placed in institutions which have really become hospitals, where they receive special treatment for their special illness. The feeble-minded are receiving intellectual attention, and are being given opportunity to develop as far as it is possible. The deaf and blind have been placed in institutions which have really come to be schools. The treatment of crime is improving, especially where children are involved. Juvenile courts have been established, where children are treated as neglected children and not criminals. Dependents are being given intelligent care, and causes of their condition considered. The aged are given better care, both in their own homes, and institutions. Orphans are being given a square deal, in fact children have come unto their own. They are being given health opportunities in pre-school clinics, and health examinations in the school; they are having enough to eat, school opportunity and suitable recreation. To the Latter-day Saints the coming forth of the Book of Mormon, and the establishment of the Church, with all its blessings and opportunities, is the rarest gift of all, and it is most appropriate that it occurred in this most progressive period of the world's history. When we take into account all of the progress which has been made in the fields of invention, discovery, social justice, and in other fields, together with the greatest event, the restoration of the gospel by the Prophet Joseph Smith, we can be grateful, as we surely are grateful, that we have lived during this wonderful period of time. 32 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Clarissa S. Williams We have listened with interest to the various ideas of those who have addressed us, and it was borne in upon me how typical has this afternoon meeting been of the activities of the Relief Society—spiritual and temporal combined. You know when the Prophet Joseph Smith organized the Relief Society, he gave us a certain field of labor, and it was a temporal labor, but in addition to that he told us that we should be saviors of souls. Now, during the six months which have passed, you may well understand that the Relief Society has been very busy. Mrs. Robison has given you a little idea of what has been going on throughout the Church in the Civic Pride movement, and I believe that all of you will bear out the statement that more good has come to the communities in the Church through this little activity than we can ever be able to measure, and that is only the beginning. There is one thing Mrs. Robison failed to mention: in a certain stake in the eastern part of Utah, there is a little ward which has no water supply, and it is necessary to carry all the water for culinary and other purposes. So the sisters there, knowing that it would be very difficult to get water for any plants or shrubs or anything of that sort, decided that they would plant bachelor buttons, since these flowers are very thrifty and hardy. They planted bachelor buttons and carried water, some of them at least a half mile, and kept their bachelor buttons watered. When the time came for the flower exhibit they had a most wonderful exhibit of varieties of bachelor buttons. This is certainly a testimony to us of the desire of the women to carry out the instructions of the General Board. I would like to mention one other thing. I attended a flower show in this county, and on one table were 104 or 105 varieties of flowers—everything you could imagine. I did not even dream that there were so many kinds of flowers in the county, and they were the product of a middle aged woman who was an invalid and whose physician had told her she must spend her time in the sunshine and in the open air, and she had taken that opportunity, which was a real pleasure. Since we met in April the following organization and reorganizations of Relief Societies have been made: San Francisco stake, organized July 10, 1927, Mrs. Eva Merrill appointed president; Jordan stake, divided into East Jordan and West Jordan stakes, May, 1927, Mrs. Elfleda L. Jensen retained as president of East Jordan, and Mrs. Mary J. Pixton appointed president of West Jordan; Los Angeles stake, divided into Hollywood and Los Angeles stakes, Mrs. Katherine R. Stewart retained as president of Hollywood stake, and Mrs. Laura P. Hotalling appointed president of Los Angeles stake: Big Horn stake, reorganized July 31, 1927, Mrs. Helen B. Croft released, Mrs. Hazel N. Boyack ap- CONFERENCE ADDRESSES 33 pointed president; Blaine stake, reorganized May 8, 1927, Mrs. Laura J. Adamson released, Mrs. Mirtis Cooper appointed president; Boise stake, reorganized September 18, 1927, Mrs. Bessie G. Hale released, Mrs. Florence E. Lewis appointed president; Fremont stake, reorganized August 14, 1927, Mrs. Lavina Walker released, Mrs. Marie M. Merrill appointed president; Pioneer stake, reorganized August 28, 1927, Mrs. Mary A. Cutler released, Mrs. Lettie T. Cannon appointed president; Salt Lake stake, reorganized September 25, 1927, Mrs. Vilate N. Bennion released, Mrs. Elizabeth C. Williams appointed president. I desire to say that the General Board expresses love and appreciation for the work of the women who have been released as stake presidents and officers of the Relief Society, and extends the heartiest congratulations and good wishes to the women who have been appointed to preside over the stakes. From reports which have been made to our visitors to your conventions, we learn that the spirit of the Lord is with the Relief Society, and love and unity prevail. Extensive work is being done along many lines. Some very notable work has been done in the clinics and along health lines generally. We are especially interested in child welfare work, and I would like to say to you sisters that there will never come a time when child welfare work will not be carried on and featured by the Relief Society, when we will not be urging that traveling nurses be obtained to go among your communities, when we will cease to labor with all our might for the betterment of mothers and of little children. Whatever we can learn from books or from the experience of other people, we are endeavoring to pass on to you, that you may help in the great humanitarian work of bettering community life. I believe we are all proud of the part which we are playing in the building up of the communities and in the thought that we are building for the future; and whatever we may do for the betterment of the children, or for the mothers, or for the aged people, is for the bettering of community life. I believe that as we grow older and as our children and grandchildren take our places in this great work, that we will have a pride in saying to them that we were among the pioneers in this humanitarian labor, just as we have a pride in saying that we are carrying on the work of those noble women who were first appointed to establish this work. As year after year has gone by until more than eighty years have passed, I believe that we feel that our mothers and grandmothers are satisfied with the work we are endeavoring to do. My belief is that they know what we are doing and that they are pleased and satisfied when we endeavor to do right and to carry on the work properly. I believe that they rejoice that we have been able to conceive of what was in their hearts when they were organized 34 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE and told to go forth and be saviors of men and to help build up communities. I want to say to you my dear sisters that I appreciate the love and confidence of the members of the Relief Society. I appreciate the support and confidence which I have from my counselors and secretary, and from the members of the General Board, and it gives me great joy and satisfaction to believe that you are pleased and satisfied with what we are trying to do. We are trying to progress. We do not desire to stand still. There is danger in standing still, and failing to meet the new problems. I just want to say to you that the General Board members are united in the desire to assist you to carry on the work in your stakes and wards in a satisfactory manner to you, that love and harmony and peace and goodwill may be with you, and that you may have the confidence of the Priesthood authorities in your districts, that you may feel that you are sustained and upheld by them in your work. And as reports come to us, week by week and month by month, we are gratified and pleased with the advancement which you are making. I pray that we may ever have the spirit of our heavenly Father to be with us in our work. I want to say to you that I desire the blessings of our heavenly Father to support and help me. I want to bear my testimony to you of the truth of the gospel, and I want to express the joy that I have in the privilege of living in this day and generation when the gospel has been restored, and if I can only have the Spirit of my heavenly Father to be with me, to help me and support me, I shall be a blessed woman. I pray that you may all realize the righteous desires of your hearts, that our heavenly Father will bless you, that the year which is coming may be the most successful and prosperous that you have ever had, and that you may be instruments in the hands of our heavenly Father in helping to build up his work and that you may have his Spirit to be with you. I ask this, my dear sisters, in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ. Amen. Book Review AN INTRODUCTION TO THE STUDY OF THE BOOK OF MORMON It would be a great disappointment and perhaps something of a reflection on the talent of the Church if the present year had not brought forth a book that would be illuminating and of vital assistance in the study of the Book of Mormon. However, the situation has been met in a most satisfactory manner by the publication of An Introduction to the Study of the Book of Mormon by J. M. Sjodahl, one of the best known writers of the Church. First of all An Introduction to the Study of the Book of Mormon makes convenient a good deal of material which heretofore has been scattered through a wide range of publications. As an example let us take the rather well known story of Oliver Cowdery meeting an opposing attorney in Michigan whom he answered by saying, "I know that I saw, and belief has nothing to do with it, for knowledge has swallowed up the belief I had in the work since I know it is true." Many people in the Church have that incident partly in mind but have no knowledge of where it occurred or the exact language used by Mr. Cowdery. Elder Sjodahl has done them a real service by locating this matter. This incident merely suggests much other material of perhaps greater importance and greater interest. On the other hand the author presents a large mass of new material. In confirmation of this statement we cite the chapters on Book of Mormon Names in American Geography, American Words from Old-World Languages, and the Name America an American Word. Perhaps of equal interest are the chapters, A Leaf From the History of Peru, The Shell Mounds and the Jaredites, etc., and a suggested key to Book of Mormon Geography. There is a type of mind that is intensely interested in traditions, myths and legends. To such people the chapter on Religious Concepts, Traditions, Myths and Legends will make special appeal. We wish to make special mention of the chapter on Book of Mormon Names in American Geography as Elder Sjodahl, who is a student of dead languages and particularly Hebrew and Greek, is especially well qualified to speak on this matter. Much has been said about ruins of cities and buildings testifying to the authenticity of the Book of Mormon, but such ruins are perhaps not as important as the survival of names. People may argue that ruins are the result of the activity of other peoples, but it is a pretty difficult thing to dispute the authenticity of the survival of groups of names. We feel sure that our readers will be interested in this subject and suggest as an example that they look up the material Elder Sjodahl has brought together on the name Moroni. We welcome the coming forth of this book at a time so opportune, when readers and students all over the church are reach- 36 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE ing out in eagerness for more knowledge concerning this sacred volume. CARE FOR EXPECTANT MOTHERS We have on the desk a book entitled Modern and Practical Prenatal and Maternal Care for Expectant Mothers, written by Dr. W. E. Hunter, Dept. Of Obstetrics and Gynecology, InterMountain Clinic, and Obstetrician to Groves L. D. S. Hospital. The book has been written for the expectant mother, and assumes to give her practical information in relation to her care from the beginning of life to the moment of actual birth. It states that "the trend of modern obstetrics is to make child bearing more comfortable and less hazardous, to preserve life rather than restore it." Dr. R. Knight Smith says in his introduction, "the reduction of the mortality attendant upon child bearing has been notoriously slow compared to that attained in many other fields, and any means by which this may be hastened must have the endorsement of all thinking people." In a later chapter we are told "that about 20,000 women die annually from childbirth, or, as a consequence of child-bearing, in the United States, and that this constitutes but a small proportion of the true seriousness of child-bearing, as most women suffer more or less from small injuries of which they never complain, and other women are operated on daily for old injuries." "In the United States 200,000 babies die annually at birth or during the first months following, and even this is not the total death rate." Under such circumstances it must be apparent to all thinking persons that one of the most important things for a mother to know, from the beginning, is that she is having proper care both for herself and for the child. Two lives are in the balance and no chance should be taken in the matter either of preserving life or preserving health, for both are of paramount importance. Some of the chapters contained in this book are: Parental Care, The Effect of Pregnancy on the Mother, Duration of Pregnancy, and Date of Confinement, Hygiene of Pregnancy, Preparation for Delivery, and Place of Confinement, the Relief of Suffering, Care of Mother and Baby, New Mother and Baby, Characteristics of a Healthy Baby. It will be seen from the chapters listed that the material concerned is of prime importance to mothers and infants. MY PHILOSOPHY OF LIFE My Philosophy of Life, a new book by Professor Alfred Osmond, deals with life material of a type that confronts each one of us every day that we live. The book contains eleven chapters as well as twenty-one of the best poems that Professor Osmond has written. Magazine readers will find the chapters on "The THE BOOK REVIEWS 37 Spiritual Life," "How to be Happy," "Tragedy and Life," and "Redemption" of particular interest. This season we had as one of the special topics in the conventions and conferences the Art of Living. Professor Osmond has a good deal to say about this subject which he calls "the fine art of living." In the chapter on "How to be Happy" he gives a hypothetical example of one who has made a fortune and has lost his job. He has attained what he was seeking and there is no more to do. To such a person he offers this advice: "If, however, the fortune-seeker fell in love with his work, he can now turn the affections of his heart and the skill of his pen to an unfolding aim. If he loves writing for its own sake, he can devote the rest of his life to the finest of all, the fine arts—except the art of living—the art of writing." Later on in the chapter entitled "Tragedy and Life" the author tells us that "there are many pessimistic philosophers who hold that life is a positive evil. But I contend that they are all mistaken. Life is a positive good, because it contains the possibilities of the wealth of the universe. Life is a positive good for many other reasons. To support this contention I call as my witnesses the healthful and gratuitous activity of all forms of animal life. The gladsome songs of birds; the merry laugh of children; the sweet, fond smile of motherhood; the proud and generous soul of fatherhood—all these proclaim with an eloquence divine that life is beautiful; life is sweet, life is upward and onward toward a higher goal and a brighter light. Men may come and may go, but the stream of life flows on forever. Death is temporary. Life is eternal. This, then, is the first great contribution that tragedy makes to life—it makes life possible." Again Professor Osmond tells us that "the natural penalty for intemperate devotion to sordid interests is narrow-mindedness and deadened sensibilities." In the chapter on "Redemption" the reader is reminded again as the author has chosen to remind him frequently that no matter who you are, where you may live, what you may do or what you may possess, the universe has decreed that you are not to have uninterrupted happiness. In the chapter on "Redemption" we are told, "You not only have to descend to the valley of the shadow but you have to wear a yoke and bear a burden. * * * The Master has said that his yoke is easy and his burden is light, and has admonished you to take it upon you. When he says his yoke is easy and his burden is light, he seems to mean that the spirit he gives you will make the yoke seem easy and the burden light." The spirit of the author, which is a spirit of high mindedness, genuine refinement and deep spirituality, permeates the volume. In this day of many questionable books it is refreshing to discover a book so sound at the core and so wholesome in all of its pronouncements. Notes From the Field Amy Brown Lyman, General Secretary Annual Membership Dues. Have you paid your annual membership dues for 1928? Annual membership dues should be paid in advance in January of each year. For example, the dues for 1928 should be paid in January, 1928. The dues should be sent to the stake secretary not later than February 28, and the portion due to the General Board should be sent to the General Secretary by March 31. Members, why not help your officers to make a record for your stake by being prompt in this matter? Liberty Stake. RELIEF SOCIETY VISITING TEACHER MY CREED I will be dependable. I will make prayerful preparation for my visits. I will make this duty a pleasure. I will leave my troubles at home. I will bring sunshine into the homes I visit. I will speak well of everyone. I will not gossip. I will not betray a confidence. I will seek to know the needs of the people I visit. I will be a mother in my district. I will attend my meetings. I will live worthy of this calling. Cache Stake—Children's Vacation. On invitation of Mrs. Lizzie B. Owen, president of the Cache stake Relief Society, a group of twenty-two children from families in whom the family welfare department of the Relief Society are actively interested, went to Logan, August 17, for a ten-day summer vacation. They were placed in the North Logan, Benson and Hyde Park wards, with families who had previously arranged with Mrs. Owen to receive these children and give them a delightful time in the country, with plenty of chance to romp and play in the open and an abundance of nourishing food. A number of these children were malnourished and considerably underweight, and all of them came from homes in which sickness or death of one parent, or some other unfortunate situation deprived them of many of the advantages children naturally enjoy in their NOTES FROM THE FIELD 39 own homes. The visit of these children in the homes of our Relief Society women is, therefore, an opportunity from the standpoint of health and education. The children all came back looking refreshed and some were noticeably "filled out." The girls displayed dolls and the boys proudly showed pocket knives which had been given them. The children were also given fruit and delicacies to take home and many of them were given clothing and stockings by the families whom they visited. The relatives of these children, as well as the family welfare department, appreciate very much the cooperation of Mrs. Owen, together with her Relief Society women, and the General Board, in making this summer vacation possible for these children. California Mission (San Jose Branch.) The San Jose Relief Society, though small, having a membership of only 15, is active and energetic. As a sample of SAN JOSE BRANCH, CALIFORNIA MISSION their work we find that during the year the average attendance has been 76%, and the number of visits by visiting teachers, 208. Emery Stake. On July 10, 1927, the Relief Societies of the Emery Stake held a successful and interesting conference at Ferron. The attendance was good, and a peaceful spirit prevailed throughout the day. A program of musical selections and readings, together 40 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE with the following subjects, were given: enlistment committee, charity and general funds and membership dues; the course of study: theology, social service, child welfare, and civic pride. The presidents of all of the ward Relief Societies in the stake, except one, reported their organizations as being fully organized and doing a good work. The members of the Society brought their lunch with them and had a very pleasant visit during the noon hour. The Emery stake Relief Society board lost one of its valuable workers in the death recently of Mrs. Jane Litster of Cleveland, who has been a most active worker on the board for a number of years, acting as stake class leader of literature since 1920. Mrs. Litster was loved wherever she was known, and admired as a woman of great faith and deep spirituality. Her implicit faith in God, and her strong testimony of the gospel characterized her whole life, and her influence for good was felt by all who knew her. Alpine Stake. Upon invitation of the presidency and stake board of Alpine stake, workers from every ward gathered in the stake tabernacle on a recent Tuesday afternoon where a fine program was rendered, including readings, grave and gay; vocal numbers, solos and part songs; and addresses by members of the board. Then followed a merry interval when prizes were given as follows: first a prize to the oldest sister present, won by a woman who had reached the venerable age of 82 years. Next a prize to the sister who had been a member of the Relief Society for the longest period, which was won by the same woman; not wishing to take two prizes she waived her right in favor of another sister who had been a member for very nearly as long a time as herself. Then a prize to the sister who had the largest family. This was given to a woman who had borne 18 children. The next prize offered was to the ward showing 100% of teacher's visits for five consecutive years. It was thought that this prize would not be claimed, but to everybody's surprise five wards responded, some of them having this exceptional record for more than five years. With every prize a little verse, composed by a member of the board, was given, and added much to the happy spirit of the occasion. After the exercises refreshments were served to all, and an opportunity given to shake hands and enjoy a social chat. Garfield Stake (Kingston Ward.) On a warm day in late August the Kingston ward held Mothers' and Daughters' Day. The event took place in the cool shade of Chesney Snow's grassy orchard. Games were played, including a carpenters' relay, in which the married women proved NOTES FROM THE FIELD 41 to be more adept at hammering and won the first five points; a running relay, in which the daughters won the next five points. Then there was a race in tire changing, which was won by the KINGSTON WARD RELIEF SOCIETY daughters. There was a program next, followed by a delicious luncheon served cafeteria style. Liberty Stake (Eighth Ward.) The members of the Relief Society of the Eighth ward of Liberty stake keep up their fellowship during the Summer in various ways. In June, at the close of the business meeting, 59 women, under the able leadership of President Margaret Fetzer, visited the State Capitol. Most of them had never been in the building before. They were shown around by a guide, partook of a delicious luncheon and thoroughly enjoyed it all. At 4 o'clock on the morning of July 14, 51 members gathered at the chapel, where they took busses for Logan, arriving there at 8 o'clock. They were received at the Logan temple by President Joseph R. Shepherd. They all went through the temple, doing work from the charity list of that temple. Later they enjoyed luncheon at a down-town cafe, and visited the Utah Agricultural College and other points of interest before returning home. They are already making plans for an excursion to the St. George temple next Summer. The women of this ward have made it a custom for a number of years to give each expectant mother who has been a member of the Society for one year, a dainty pink baby quilt. 42 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Deseret Stake (Class Leaders' Convention featured). All the wards in the Deseret stake have been holding Relief Society meetings regularly during the summer months, following suggestive plans made by the stake board. Contest work among the visiting teachers in the clean-up work and genealogical work have been featured to stimulate interest and keep members active. On August 3, a class leaders' convention of all the Relief Society class leaders, executive and special officers of all the wards in the stake was held in Delta under the direction of the stake board with an attendance of 83%. The morning meeting included talks on better teachers and better methods of teaching, with a half-hour of demonstration and general discussion clinching the important points. At noon the stake board served lunch to all the ward officers. At 2 p. m. Departmental work of the following groups was conducted: presidents, secretaries, organists and choristers, theology class leaders, literary class leaders, social service class leaders, and work committees. Here, under the direction of the stake leader, problems of the various departments were discussed. This convention was a source of encouragement and inspiration to stake as well as local officers; and as a result of it the stake will no doubt have more efficient teachers and more effective teaching than ever before, and the Relief Society as a whole will be put on a higher standing. Idaho Falls Stake. On July 30, 1927, the Idaho Falls stake Relief Society held a teachers' convention. All stake board members and 149 officers and teachers of local Relief Societies were present. At 10:30 a. m., the first meeting convened. After the usual opening exercises the following program was rendered: Address of Welcome.......... Relief Society Stake President, Clara Brunt Lincoln Ward Response to the Address of Welcome............. Mrs. Sarah E. Wright of the Lincoln Ward Vocal Solo, "I Know That My Redeemer Lives".... Mr. Maurice Morley "Why Teacher-Training in Relief Society?"............. Bishop Aubrey O. Andelin of the Idaho Falls Second Ward Violin Solo, "The Holy City"..................... Miss Virginia Lindsay Discussion of Teachers' Problems, "Appreciation of Calling"........ Mrs. Mayme Laird of the Idaho Falls First Ward "Needs of Ward Teaching"....... Mrs. Annie A. Fox of the Second Ward "Necessity of Music in Relief Society"............. Mrs. Astrid Morley of the Relief Society Stake Board "L. D. S. Worship"........... Mrs. Alice Hudman of the Coltman Ward At the close of this meeting a two-course luncheon was served, cafeteria style, and a get-acquainted social was enjoyed. Community singing was followed by a vocal duet, "The Twilight Hour," Mrs. Edna H. Brinton and Mary L. Hatch. Miss Norma Parnes, Home Demonstration Agent of the Extension Division of the University of Idaho, gave a talk and demonstration on the most becoming colors for different types. NOTES FROM THE FIELD 43 Sevier Stake. In August a very helpful teachers' convention was held. The subject of "Ward Teaching" was discussed under two headings: (a) What benefit is the teachers' visit to the family? (b) What benefit does the teacher receive from her visit? Six speakers, one for each ward, discussed the subject. There were also musical numbers and readings. In connection with the convention there was an elaborate flower display. Each ward was given a reward of merit for work in the flower display in the form of a yearly subscription to the magazine, Better Homes and Gardens. At the close of the convention the stake board served light refreshments. Shelley Stake. All of the wards of Shelley stake have been most active in the civic pride campaign this summer. The result of this activity is that the homes of the different wards have never before looked so clean and well-kept. Flowers have been planted much more extensively this year than ever before. In many homes flowers have taken the place of the weeds of previous years. A stake flower show was held in Shelley on August 23, each ward having a separate display of flowers. Prizes were given for first and second place in the display, Shelley First ward received the first place for the best display and Fifth ward, the second prize. First and second prizes were also given for best flower gardens in the stake. These were awarded to Mrs. L. P. Petersen of Woodville ward, first prize; and Mrs. Alzeda Lawrence of Shelley First ward the second prize. After the flower show was over the flowers were given to the stake "Old Folks Committee" who used them the next day in the annual old folks party. In connection with the flower festival a very splendid free evening's entertainment was given, consisting of two short plays which featured Relief Society work; with musical numbers and special dancing. Morgan Stake. The Morgan stake Relief Society board entertained all officers and members of the various wards of the stake at their annual social and luncheon at Como Springs, September 1, 1927. A flower exhibit was held in connection with the social. About 35 different varieties of home-grown flowers of every shade were on display, the bouquets being artistically arranged. Mrs. Matilda Peterson received first prize, and Mary Ann Smith second prize for most varieties, and Mrs. James Flaherty first prize, and Emma London second prize for gladioli. The prizes consisted of different varieties of bulbs. Since the civic pride campaign has been carried on by the Relief Society, the women of this county have been taking more interest in raising flowers. 44 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE REORGANIZATIONS Big Horn Stake. On July 31, 1927, the Big Horn stake Relief Society was reorganized. Mrs. Helen B. Croft, who has served faithfully as president for a number of years was honorably released with deep appreciation for her past labors. Mrs. Hazel N. Boyack was appointed president to succeed Mrs. Croft. Fremont Stake. The Fremont stake Relief Society was reorganized on August 14, 1927. On account of illness in her family Mrs. Lavina Walker found it necessary to withdraw from her position as president of the stake Relief Society, and she was honorably released. Mrs. Walker has worked untiringly in the Relief Society cause, and leaves her stake in excellent condition. Mrs. Marie M. Merrill was selected as the new president to fill the vacancy, with the following officers to assist: counselors, Mrs. Artemesia Romney and Mrs. Floretta Webster; secretary-treasurer, Mrs. M. May Grover; board members, Mrs. Hattie Rigby, Mrs. Elizabeth Stowell, Mrs. Nora Davis, Mrs. Ruby Stoker. Pioneer Stake. The Pioneer stake Relief Society was reorganized on August 28, 1927. Mrs. Mary A. Cutler, who has served as stake president for a number of years, found it necessary to retire and she was given an honorable release. Mrs. Lettie T. Cannon was appointed to succeed Mrs. Cutler, with Mrs. Edna Matson and Mrs. Florence M. Burton as counselors, and Mrs. Nora Hyde as secretary. For her excellent and efficient work, and in recognition of her radiant personality, Mrs. Cutler is loved and appreciated by all of the members of the stake. A delightful social affair in her honor was given Tuesday, September 13, at the home of Mrs. William T. Cannon by members of the stake board. The rooms of the Cannon home had been beautifully decorated for the occasion, and in addition to the members of the board there were present of the General Board, President Clarissa S. Williams, counselors Jennie B. Knight and Louise Y. Robison, the general secretary Amy Brown Lyman, Mrs. Annie Wells Cannon, Mrs. Nettie D. Bradford and Mrs. Elise B. Alder. Others present included Mrs. Lettie T. Cannon, the incoming stake president, and her counselors. Covers were laid for 26. During the afternoon a delightful program was rendered, and Mrs. Cutler was presented with a token by the retiring board. Canadian Mission. President Charles H. Hart of the Canadian mission reports the appointment of Mrs. Lalene H. Hart as president of the Re- NOTES FROM THE FIELD 45 lief Societies of the Canadian mission. The Relief Societies of this mission are fortunate in having, as presiding officer, a woman who has had experience on the General Board. Mrs. Hart follows Mrs. Ida T. Quinney, who was released with her husband, President Joseph Quinney, Jr. Eastern States Mission. Miss Lola R. Bradford has recently been appointed president of the Relief Societies of the Eastern states mission, to succeed Miss Dicie W. Brimhall, the latter having been released as a missionary to return home. The work in this mission is of excellent character throughout. Salt Lake Stake The Salt Lake stake was reorganized September 25, 1927, Mrs. Vilate N. Bennion, who has successfully and efficiently served as stake president for a number of years found it necessary to resign on account of illness in her family, and was honorably released. Mrs. Elizabeth C. Williams, counselor to Mrs. Bennion, and social worker at the Relief Society welfare department, was appointed to fill the vacancy caused by Mrs. Bennion's resignation. Salt Lake stake is very fortunate in securing the services of Mrs. Williams because of her experience as a missionary for the Church, as a stake worker for the Relief Society, and because of her training as a social service worker. For the last six years Mrs. Williams has been one of the valued workers in the family welfare department at Relief Society headquarters, where she has given efficient and faithful service, and where she is loved by her coworkers and by those whom she has assisted with their problems and burdens. Mrs. Williams' counselors are: Mrs. Marcia K. Howells and Mrs. Irene T. Seare, and her secretary-treasurer, Mrs. Sarah Twitchell. Boise Stake On September 18, the Boise stake Relief Society was reorganized. Mrs. Bessie G. Hale found it necessary to give up the work of the presidency and was honorably released. Mrs. Florence E. Lewis, a faithful and capable Relief Society worker was appointed president to succeed Mrs. Hale, with the following assistants: counselors, Mrs. Carmen B. Smith and Iva B. Ward; secretary-treasurer, Mrs. Mary H. Bean. Mrs. Hale has served as president of the Relief Societies of Boise stake for eight years. She brought to her position training, personality and leadership, and these, with the faithful service she has given, have helped her to place her stake in the front ranks of the stakes of the Church. Guide Lessons for March LESSON I Theology and Testimony (First Week in March) THE DISPENSATION OF THE FULNESS OF TIMES (CONTINUED) THE NEW SCRIPTURE 1. Some prophecies concerning it: 1. "Truth shall spring out of the earth'—so wrote the inspire psalmist more than twenty-five centuries ago. (Psalms 85:11.) 2. The ancient Prophet Ezekiel was commanded to foreshadow the preparation of a companion volume for the bible. (Ezekiel 37:15-21.) Back, far back before the Christian era, or even in the Mosaic dispensation the Lord declared to the Seer sold into Egypt that Judah and Joseph should have separate records, each of which should verify the truth of the other, "unto the confounding of false doctrines, and to laying down of contentions, and establishing peace." (II Nephi 3:12.) 3. God showed the book to Nephi before it was written. (I Nephi 13:38-40.) II. The Book of Gold: "The Golden Bible'—this nick-name given to the Book of Mormon has in it more than the scoffers ever dreamed of. The volume is doubly golden: (1) 'it was carved on metal plates, having the appearance of gold. ("Testimony of Eight Witnesses—Book of Mormon.) It is an abridgment from plates of brass, and of ore, and of gold. (See Brief Analysis of Book of Mormon, 1920 edition.) "The Plates were not pure gold, the plates of Nephi were made of ore, and Mormon also mentions ore as the material of which his plates were made. (I Nephi, 19:1, Mormon 8:5, Mosiah 28-11.) ('The ore,—possibly a copper alloy'. (From An Introduction to the Study of the Book of Mormon, p. 43, Sjodahl.) (2) The contents are golden truths, everlasting truths, truths most precious. (Jacob 1:2.) The new scripture was verily a bible—a book of fifteen books. (See names and order of books in Book of Mormon, 1920 edition.) The record contained the doctrines and doings of three minor gospel dispensations, the Jaredite, the Nephite, and the Messianic dispensations on this continent, and the story of two civilizations, GUIDE LESSONS FOR MARCH 47 the Nephites and the Jaredites on the land choice above all other lands—America. This scripture which had silently, slumbered in the ground for more than twenty centuries is to "speak out of the ground;" through its coming forth, a long, long silence is to be broken; it is to speak for men long since dead, and for the living God; it is to come forth by a miracle, and go forth as a new witness for God, for the regeneration of a dwindled race and the enlightenment of a world. (See D. And C. 3:16-20.) III. The Guardian Messenger:;, Who he was: He was the last custodian of the record, and in the 421st year, A. D., he wrote the final chapter which, because of the promise it makes to the reader, is really a preface to the volume, a guide to the student. He was, after death, a spirit held in high esteem by the Savior, 'spoken of as an angel of authority by the Lord. (See D. And C. 27:5.) And although he lived on the earth long after the resurrection of Jesus, yet Moroni was evidently a resurrected being when he came to Joseph the Seer. (D. And C. 129.) "Question 4: How, and where did you obtain the Book of Mormon? "Answer: Moroni, the person who deposited the plates from which the Book of Mormon was translated, in a hill in Manchester, Ontario county, New York, being dead and raised again therefrom, appeared unto me, and told me where they were; and gave me directions how to obtain them. I obtained them and the Urim and Thummim with them, by the means of which I translated the plates; and thus came the Book of Mormon." (From the Elders' Journal, Joseph Smith, Jr., editor, Far West, Mo., July, 1838.) 2. His Special Mission: Wis was the special mission to prepare Joseph for the possession of the plates and deliver them to the seer with the Urim and Thummim and the breast plate, and assist in protecting them, receive them back into his own custody after the translation was finished, and evidently show the plates to three witnesses and testify to the divinity of the translation, and then become again the custodian of them. Some day, when knowledge covers the earth, they may be shown as material evidence of the blindness of those whose spiritual sight was blinded by bias, prejudice, and skepticism. See Testimony of the Witnesses, Book of Mormon. ) 3. His Masterly Management: 'Moroni, a messenger from God. What he did was more than marvelous, more than wonderful. It was work known as miracles. By his extended quotations to Joseph, Moroni gave evidence of being a student. His method of teaching and training marked him as an educator. He instructed when interest was intense, He reviewed; four times he 48 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE went over the first lesson. He encouraged; he warned; he trained for responsibility by a series of tests; he rewarded by aiding in' achievement of success; he punished by withdrawal of privileges. His requirements were of a character-developing nature; they called for both discipline in resistance and development in achievement. Joseph was not even to think of making money out of the book or the plates. He was not to show them except by permission, but he was to protect them, translate them and publish their contents. The mission of this mighty messenger is celebrated in song and statue. Few hymns are more often sung by the Latter-day Saints than the one beginning: "An angel from on high, the long, long silence broke." And the tower of the great granite temple which was forty years in building is surmounted by a gold-plated figure in the attitude of blowing a trumpet, and, when the stranger asks, "Whom does the statue represent?' to his question the answer is: "The Angel Moroni." Special References for Supplemental Study: 1. Book of Mormon II Nephi:29. 2. An Introduction to the Study of the Book of Mormon, chapter 1, Sjodahl. Questions and Problems 1. Quote or read the prophecy which to your mind most unmistakably refers to the coming forth of the Book of Mormon. 2, Why is the Book of Mormon a miracle? 3. Wherein is the Book of Mormon really a bible? 4. Why may III Nephi, chapters 11-30 inclusive, be fittingly called the "Fifth Gospel?" 5. What is there in the last chapter of the Book of Mormon that suggests the propriety of reading the chapter before reading the book? 6. What is there in the life and special mission of Moroni that justifies the belief in either special or continuous resurrections? 7. What are the evidences that the Angel Moroni was a student? 8. Wherein was Moroni a great teacher and character trainer? 9. What long, long silence was broken by the mission of Moroni? 10. What does the trumpet being blown by the Angel Moroni represent? 11. For the awakening of whom are the trumpet sounds especially directed? 12. Wherein were the works of the Angel Moroni miracles, that is, more than wonderful, more than marvelous? GUIDE LESSONS FOR MARCH 49 LESSON II Work and Business (Second Week in March) Teachers' Topic for March—Health in the Home Can one live a happy normal life when in ill health? 1. Preventive measures. A. Health opportunities for everybody. American standard includes yearly medical examination for all adults and school children. B. Practices that tend to destroy health. Fads, viz.: dieting, over-exercising, patronizing health advertisements, taking of medicines, especially patent, unless on advice of reputable physician. 2. Proper Home Sanitation. A. Observance of quarantine requirements. 3. Important Points in Personal Hygiene. A. Bathing. B. Care of teeth. C. Clean clothing. D. Sane hours for sleeping. E. Early detection of disease. 4. Proper Food. A. Temperance in eating. B. Insufficient nourishing food. (Milk essential for child.) C. Thoughtful selection and combination of foods. D. Regularity of meals. 5. Word of Wisdom. 50 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Literature LESSON III (Third Week in March) JOHN MASEFIELD AND ALFRED EDWARD HOUSMAN When we think of authors who have written of the sea, James Fennimore Cooper and Sir Walter Scott of the past generations come quickly to mind. In this more modern time to think of a writer of the sea is to think at once of Joseph Conrad. A writer who is spoken of "as one of the two or three outstanding figures among contemporary English speaking poets is John Masefield, who was born in 1874, in the West of England. When a lad he served before the mast, did the drudgery and suffered the privations and the dangers of a sailor's life." Notwithstanding this suffering he had a passion for ships and the sea, as his poems known as Salt Water Ballads show. After he had knocked about a good deal as sailor and farm hand he took to writing as a profession and settled in Berkshire. In one respect he reminds us of Carl Sandburg, for he is the second example of a man spending his early life here, there and everywhere else, at this job and that, finally developing into a recognized poet. In 1896, he was living in America, in Yonkers, New York. There he first began to read poetry as he says, "with passion and system." He began with the great father of English poetry, Chaucer, and from him went to a study of Keats, Shelley, Milton and Shakespeare. Not only does Masefield love the sea, but he seems equally infatuated with English country districts which are usually conceded to be the most beautiful in the world. One of his poems entitled, "Sea Fever" begins: "I must go down to the sea again, to the lonely sea and sky; And all I ask is a tall ship and a star to steer her by, And the wheel's kick, and the wind's song, and the white sails shaking, And a grey mist on the sea's face, and a grey dawn breaking." And in his poem called "Prayer" his request is: "When the last sea is sailed, and the last field is reaped, Be good to me, O Lord, And let me pass in a night of sea, a night of storm and thunder." Tewksbury Road is a splendid example of his love for the English country district: GUIDE LESSONS FOR MARCH 51 It is good to be out on the road, and going one knows not where, Going through meadow and village, one knows not whither nor why,— Through the grey, light drift of the dust, in the keen cool rush of the air, Under the flying white clouds, and the broad blue lift of the sky; And to halt at the chattering brook, in the tall green fern at the brink Where the harebell grows, and the gorse, and the foxgloves purple and white, Where the shy-eyed delicate deer troop down to the brook to drink When the stars are mellow and large at the coming on of the night. O, to feel the beat of the rain, and the homely smell of the earth, Is a tune for the blood to jig to, a joy past power of words; And the blessed green comely meadows are all a-ripple with mirth At the noise of the lambs at play and the dear wild cry of the birds. Of course it would be a surprising thing if Masefield's heart did not go out to the laboring man, the man who carries the heavy burdens of life. His sympathy for the common man makes us think of Wordsworth and Burns of the past and of A. E. Housman and W. W. Gibson of the present day. One cannot read the lines of Masefield without appreciating that he is a master of rhythm. There are people who are never satisfied with poetry unless the rhythm of the verse is pronounced and musical. To persons of this turn of mind John Masefield is an ever present joy. Another poet of England who is very much enjoyed by many readers is Alfred Edward Housman, born in 1859, whose reputation for many years rested on one slender volume called A Shropshire Lad, published in 1896. Most of these poems were written the year before their publication. Housman seems to belong to a group of poets who, like Pope, "wrote in numbers for the numbers came," for he says during the year that he wrote the poems of A Shropshire Lad "he was visited by a continuous poetic excitement." In 1922 he published a second slender volume of even shorter poems known as Last Poems. While most 52 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE of the poems of this volume were written in 1922, a few were written between 1895 and 1910. Mr. Housman is a graduate of Oxford University and was for ten years a higher division clerk in His Majesty's Patent office in London. Since 1892 he has been a professor of Latin, first in University College, London, and later in Cambridge University. He is a distinguished classical scholar. He likes to write of the exquisite beauty of nature in Shropshire, the devotion of friends, the pains of lovers and the homesickness that one may experience in London if his home chances to be in a country district. As an example of his love for nature we quote a poem that might be called "Poplars:" Far in a western brookland That bred me long ago, The poplars stand and tremble By pools I used to know. There, in the windless nighttime, The wanderer, marvelling why, Halts on the bridge to hearken How soft the poplars sigh. He hears: long since forgotten In fields where I was known, Here I lie down in London And turn to rest alone. There, by the starlit fences, The wanderer halts and hears My soul that lingers sighing About the glimmering weirs. Housman writes some very delicate lyrics. One-and-Twenty is an example of his love poems: When I was one-and-twenty I heard a wise man say, "Give crowns and pounds and guineas But not your heart away; Give pearls away and rubies But keep your fancy free." But I was one-and-twenty, No use to talk to me. When I was one-and-twenty I heard him say again, "The heart out of the bosom Was never given in vain; GUIDE LESSONS FOR MARCH 53 'Tis paid with sighs a plenty And sold for endless rue." And I am two-and-twenty, And oh, 'tis true, 'tis true. Any person who has ever lived in England has heard the chimes of bells on Sunday morning as they ring out Old Hundred and tunes of Christmas cheer, as well as many other familiar songs. Tennyson talks of hearing "four bells from four hamlets round" on Christmas morning. In "Bredon Hill" Housman gives a picture of life in an English country village where the ringing of Church bells is a familiar experience: In summertime on Bredon The bells they sound so clear; Round both the shires they ring them In steeples far and near, A happy noise to hear. Here of a Sunday morning My love and I would lie, And see the coloured counties, And hear the larks so high About us in the sky. The bells would ring to call her In valleys miles away: "Come all to Church, good people; Good people, come and pray." But here my love would stay. And I would turn and answer Among the springtime thyme, "Oh, peal upon our wedding, And we will hear the chime, And come to church in time." But when the snows at Christmas On Bredon top were strown, My love rose up so early And stole out unbeknown And went to Church alone. They tolled the one bell only, Groom there was none to see, The mourners followed after, And so to church went she, And would not wait for me. 54 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE The bells they sound on Bredon, And still the steeples hum, "Come all to church, good people,"— Oh, noisy bells, be dumb; I hear you, I will come. He has paid his tribute to his friends in the poem, "With Rue my Heart is Laden," and it is one of the most delicate tributes to friendship found anywhere in modern literature: With rue my heart is laden For golden friends I had, For many a rose-lipt maiden And many a lightfoot lad. By brooks too broad for leaping The lightfoot boys are laid; The rose-lipt girls are sleeping In fields where roses fade. Questions and Problems 1. Name some sea tale written by Cooper, or Scott or Conrad, or by all if you are able. 2. Read to the class Tennyson's "Crossing the Bar." Note the contrast between Tennyson's call for the sea at death and Masefield's call for the sea at death in his poem entitled, "Prayer." 3. Name the flowers mentioned by Masefield in "Tewksbury Road." 4. The English lark finds place once again in our literature lesson. Which of the American poets of our course referred to the English lark? 5. If you have in the class any English people familiar with English chimes have them tell the class something about them, naming some of the tunes they have heard played by the bells. 6. Point out the words Housman has used to describe his friends in the poem "With Rue my Heart is Laden." 7. Read some lines from both Masefield and Housman that give pleasure because of the beauty of the rhythm of the verse. GUIDE LESSONS FOR MARCH 55 LESSON IV Social Service (Fourth Week in March) THE CHILD—STUDY COURSE LESSON 3 The Active Nature and Needs of Childhood. Based on chapter 3 of The Child: His Nature and His Needs. It will be recalled that in Lesson 1, we learned about the ways in which science is "bridging the gap" between what we know about child training and what we actually put into practice. The main point of emphasis there was, that teachers and parents alike must keep abreast the far-reaching changes now taking place in education. In lesson 2, we considered certain of the more important instincts and impulses which appear in childhood. We learned there that the proper guidance of these original tendencies is the chief responsibility of parents. In lesson 3, we are going to consider the active nature and needs of childhood and the way in which play satisfies those needs. A—THE HUMAN BEING IS BUILT OF ACTION (Pages 52-55) Did you ever hear parents say to their children: "Be still," "Can't you be quiet?" etc. To be "still" is one of the most difficult things for most normal children. Moreover, it is one of the most unnatural things to expect of a child, except during sleep or when intensely interested. Man is an active animal. He is built for action, mental and physical. His life is fulfilled in activity properly directed; it is thwarted by inactivity. The most striking characteristic of sick people generally, is their inactivity. This is true of the mentally diseased as well as of the physically ill. Contrary to popular opinion, which thinks of the insane as raving maniacs and their asylum as a "bedlam," the mentally diseased, taken as a class, are dangerously inactive. Their inactivity, as a matter of fact, is a symptom of their disease. Thus it is that a major form of treatment for insanity is occupational therapy, the underlying principle of which is activity. The meaning of this for child care and mental hygiene is clear. Unless already overactive or possessing a tendency in that direction, all children should be encouraged to physical and mental activity. The child who, without adequate cause, is mentally or physically inert, is in danger and in need of special guidance. 56 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE In the first part of chapter 3 of the text, the author describes the general laws of growth in young children, and summarizes the main items which are important for parents to remember. (The reference to left-handedness on page 52 is somewhat misleading. The author says: "*** dull children are more likely to be left-handed than bright children." This conclusion, we understand, is not fully established by science. The statement should, therefore, be interpreted with caution. The inference that all left-handed children are "dull" is certainly not justified by the facts.) Questions 1. Discuss (without using names or revealing identities) the cases of children known to you who are either (a) dangerously overactive, or (b) dangerously underactive. 2. What kinds of motor skill can parents expect of normal children at the ages of two, four, eight, twelve, etc.? 3. What is significant for parents in the fact that "all parts of the body, bones, muscles, limbs, trunk, and the various organs follow a law of growth of their own?" B.—THE FIVE FUNDAMENTALS OF PLAY (Pages 55-59) Childhood has one ultimate purpose: adulthood. All of the desires, the activities, and the behavior of the child converge on this objective. The long period of childhood is a period of preparation for adulthood, and play is the process by and through which adult behavior is learned. The child, to be sure, is not aware of this value which attaches to his play. To him, play is an end in itself; an activity engaged in for its own sake. The author has selected five play-needs of childhood: a place to play, time to play, playmates, equipment (toys, apparatus, etc.,) and intelligent suggestion. There is not much danger, at least in communities in which Relief Society work is organized, that children will have too little time to play and too little space to play in. There is need, however, in "Mormon" communities as elsewhere, to provide all children with wholesome playmates, and to give their play activities the intelligent guidance necessary. The natural tendency of children to resent supervision in their play, as in most other matters, is the cue for the application of a form of control which is indirect and which shall leave room for a maximum amount of self-government on the part of children themselves. Questions 1. What is the part played by toys in the development of the child? What, according to the author, are the rules which should GUIDE LESSONS FOR MARCH 57 govern one in the purchase of toys for one's children? Examine the toy department or the toy-catalog of any typical store carrying such merchandise, in the light of the principles laid down in this chapter. How might parents become influential in raising the standards of toy-merchandizing in your community? 2. Consider your own children and the children in your community from the standpoint of the five fundamentals of play discussed in this chapter. For instance, do your own children have too little or too much time for play? Are the play activities of children in your community "intelligently directed," etc.? C.—AGE AND SEX DIFFERENCES IN PLAY (Pages 61-67) Parents are sometimes perplexed by the fact that John's play interests at six are quite different from those of Mary when she was the same age. A careful reading of the text will convince the reader that it is natural for children of the opposite sex to have play interests which are widely dissimilar, and that this dissimilarity increases with age. The reason for this is obvious: adulthood makes totally different demands upon the sexes. That is to say, the qualities needed in manhood are quite different from those needed in womanhood, and vice versa. Hence the play interests of the two sexes will tend to differ. The principle which should guide the parent here is: encourage your child to that type of play which is normal for his (or her) age and sex. In the case of the so-called "tom-boy" or "sissy boy" everything should be done, within reason, to counteract this tendency and to cultivate those play interests which are appropriate to the child's sex. (Care should be taken, of course, not to confuse the masculine tendency amongst all adolescent girls today with the more or less rare personality type loosely called "tom-boy.") Questions 1. What are the five differences noted by the author between boys' play and girls' play? 2. At what ages does it seem wise to cultivate (a) individualism, (b) rivalry, and (c) team work, in children's play? D.—CHARACTER AND PERSONALITY DEVELOPMENT THROUGH PLAY (Pages 68-71) Equally important with physical development through play is the moral development which it makes possible. Such moral qualities as courage, honesty, sense of fair play, generosity, etc., are character traits of the utmost importance, all of which can be developed in some degree at least, by means of play. The child is imitative. He copies, more or less unconsciously, 58 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE the character and personality models he comes in contact with. Henry Churchill King puts the matter tersely in his book, Rational Living, when he states that: "Character is caught, not taught." Does it seem wise, therefore, to leave wholly undirected, the child's play life, his choice of playmates, and his use of leisure time? Questions 1. What are the educational values which the author maintains can be achieved through play? 2. What has been your observation regarding the relative influence of (a) playmates, (b) school teachers, (c) famous athletes, (d) movie stars, etc., upon the ideals and the character of your own and other children? Does it suggest the need for and the possibilities of an intelligent social control of commercialized leisure-time activity, on the one hand, and of character education, on the other? The main point in lesson 3: The normal, healthy child is active, physically and mentally. Much of his activity is play, and is an invaluable preparation for adulthood. Wise, parental guidance of the child's play life is a key to wholesome personality and strong character. A Beautiful Custom Copied from one of the Logan Newspapers Today at 2 p. m. Twenty-two bright and happy children of Salt Lake left for their homes after ten days vacation spent in Hyde Park, Benson and North Logan. On boarding the train each child was handed a box of delicacies packed by loving hands, to be enjoyed by them on the return trip. Very few people know of the beautiful custom that is being fostered and carried out by the Relief Societies; that of seeing that the orphans and children less fortunate have a summer vacation, who would not otherwise enjoy such a treat. The Cache stake Relief Society was responsible for the twenty-two children who came to Logan ten days ago, and to whom a great deal of credit is due, together with the big, generous hearted mothers of Hyde Park, Benson and North Logan, who royally entertained them in the country where everything is so beautiful at this season of the year. To these children it will be a happy remembrance; and to those who made it possible will come the joy and satisfaction of being able to serve others along with the pleasure of associating and becoming acquainted with little spirits less fortunate than themselves. "Go take to the lowly my blessing and peace, As I cared for the poor so do ye, And if you do good to the least among these Ye verily do it to me." Attend the school with a national reputation that holds five world's records. Positions Guaranteed Enter any time. Cups won by our students It pays to get the best We can assist you to earn expenses while in school. Write for full information. HENAGER'S BUSINESS COLLEGE P. O. Box 1776—Salt Lake City, Utah Your Washday Problem Is Solved after you see how easily and quickly the Maytag washes everything you put into its satin-smooth heat-retaining, life-lasting cast aluminum tub. Use it on a week's washing. See if clean tubfuls in 3 to 7 minutes— 50 pounds of dry clothes washed in one hour doesn't shorten your washday and make it easier. Phone for this free trial in your own home. If it doesn't sell itself, don't keep it MAYTAG INTERMOUNTAIN CO. Distributors Aluminum Washer When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine 215 SOUTH STATE SALT LAKE CITY Special Sale of VANITY Full Fashioned Hosiery 42 GAUGE, OF FINEST SILK An all over silk chiffon stocking—a real $1.95 value at the special price of $1.59. Box of three pair $4.55. Extra heavy service weight, silk to welt. Mercerized heel and toe. A real value at $1.95, special price of $1.59. A box of three pair $4.55. A semi-chiffon stocking, silk to welt. Mercerized heel and toe. A real value at $1.85, special price $1.49, box of three pair $4.25. All new goods. All the new fall shades. Mail orders filled. On sale. Glazier & Taylor Hosiery Co. 33 East Broadway VANITY HOSIERY SHOPPE 22 East Broadway Reliable L. D. S. GARMENTS Buy our Pre-Shrunk Garments They Wear the Longest and Fit the Best No. L. N. S. O. S. 54 Bleached med. Cotton $1.75 $1.90 56 Unbleach. Med. Cotton..1.75 1.90 58 Unbleach. Hvy. Cotton.. 2.25 64 Fine Lisle................1.75 2.00 104 Fine Rayon Silk........5.00 Samples Sent on Request Merit Bread Best Quality and Full Weight Utah Products Used Exclusively In Our Bakery When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine IT PAYS TO BE PROTECTED! $18,391.36 Paid to Date $15,000.00 in Death Claims; $3,010.10 in Disability Claims $7,500.00 Accident Policy for $1.00 We offer to old and new subscribers this unusual protection. Accidents happen every day. For your own protection and the protection of your family Insure today. Now is the time to renew policy taken out one year ago. Certain benefits, if policy is renewed before lapsing, carry on 10 per cent increase. The Deseret News SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH Good Books Are Guides To Health and Happiness Come in and look over the books by your favorite authors and we are sure you will find something to interest you. "A Good Book Makes the Best Gift" Deseret Book Company 44 East South Temple When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine MRS KATHERINE WURSTEN 597 NO. 6th EAST LOGAN UTAH Blue Pine KITCHEN KIN FOOD PRODUCTS 22 Extracts! Walnuts! Spices! BOTTLED VINEGAR OLIVE OIL The season for pastry, cakes and candy is at hand—Blue Pine food products are guaranteed to please you or your money back Say BLUE PINE To Your Grocer When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine YOU MAY POSSESS FINE JEWELS Fine jewels, that delight your heart and brighten your life, are within your reach at Boyd Park. We can arrange a convenient account, and you will find prices much lower than you expect. JEWELERS, 56 MAIN STREET SALT LAKE CITY FOR THREE GENERATIONS To LOS ANGELES AND RETURN $50.40 via SAN FRANCISCO To LOS ANGELES via SAN FRANCISCO, return $50.00; going direct or route reversed Proportionately low fares from all other points in UTAH, IDAHO and MONTANA. STOPOVERS ALLOWED AT ALL POINTS. TICKETS ON SALE DAILY FINAL RETURN LIMIT 6 MONTHS For further information CALL, WRITE or PHONE PRESS BANCROFT, GENERAL AGENT 41 SO. MAIN ST., SALT LAKE CITY PHONES WAS. 3008—3078 INSURANCE Protect what you have by insuring it. Buy Sound insurance. Let us explain the value of a policy in the Utah Home Fire Insurance Company. UTAH HOME FIRE INSURANCE CO. The more you have—the more you have need for HEBER J. GRANT & CO., General Agents, Salt Lake City, Utah When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine Classy Appearance MOUNTAINEER EXPRESS STRIPE OVERALLS An Overall with a GUARANTEED FOR QUALITY, FIT, AND SERVICE A clean, neat appearing garment for the Store Clerk, the Flour Mill Operator, the Dairyman, the Garage Man, the Teamster. None Too Large None Too Small We are very careful in selecting our advertisers. They are thoroughly reliable and we recommend them to our readers when making purchases in the various lines of goods they carry. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Management. When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine L. D. S. GARMENTS DIRECT FROM FACTORY You are guaranteed unusual wear and satisfaction from Cutler Garments. Return them for full refund if they do not give this required service. Cutler Underwear has maintained the highest standard of quality for over twenty years. No. 75 Light weight $1.75 No. 4 Medium weight 1.15 No. 6 Medium weight 1.45 No. 76 Lt. Weight lisle 1.45 No. 27 Med. Heavy, 1/4 wool 3.35 No. 39 Extra heavy, 1/2 wool 3.85 Please state whether for men or women—new or old style Postage prepaid Pay Cash—Cash Pays The Utah Milk for People Leads For many uses it takes the place of cream at about one-third the cost. It is always safe, pure and convenient. Ask for Sego Milk and be sure you get what you ask for. A Wonderful Offer for February Only! A beautiful first quality Hotpoint Waffle Iron, with handsome set of finest china—an 8-piece waffle service you will be proud to own. See it at our store Take advantage of this opportunity NOW, and enjoy the deliciousness of HOT WAFFLES! 50c Down Puts this great combination in your home. Utah Power & Light Co. Efficient Public Service When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine No. 68 Lt. Wt. Ladies' new No. 61 Med. Hvy. Unbleached with double back 1.75 No. 56 Heavy weight 2.15 L. D. S. GARMENTS When ordering, state Size, New or Old Style, and if for man or lady. Postage prepaid in U. S. Sample on request. 222 Cotton, Rayon Striped 1.65 244 Swiss Rib, Lisle and Silk BARTON & CO. Established in Utah 45 Years LATTER-DAY SAINT GARMENTS At Factory-to-Customer Prices The following numbers are made in old or new style for either Men or Women 1 Ribbed light weight cotton, with Rayon silk stripe. An excellent ladies' number $1.25 2 Ribbed light weight cotton. Our standard summer number $1.25 3 Ribbed medium weight cotton bleached. Our all season number $1.65 4 Ribbed heavy weight, unbleached cotton. Our double back number $2.25 5 Part wool, ribbed, unbleached. Our best selling Wool number $3.00 6 High grade Rayon Tricot with extra silk. For particular people $2.75 7 Pure worsted wool with Silkine $5.75 8 Mercerized cotton. Our best medium winter number $4.75 9 Ribbed medium weight, wool and cotton, Our light weight, winter number $4.75 In ordering be sure and specify whether Old or New Style Garments, three-quarter, or ankle length legs, short or long sleeves are wanted. Also give bust measure and height and weight to insure a Perfect fit. THE ORIGINAL UTAH WOOLEN MILLS 20 Richards Street Briant Stringham, Manager 1/2 Block South of Temple Gate. Bricks and Neapolitan Bricks 25¢ pt., 50¢ qt. Call Your Best Ice dealer. Extra packed in ice. TEMPLE AND BURIAL CLOTHES COMPLETE SUITS FOR MEN AND WOMEN Variety of Grades and Prices. Prompt and Careful Attention To Mail—Telephone—Telegraph Orders Open Daily, 9 a. m.—5 p. m., GENERAL BOARD RELIEF SOCIETY Phone Wasatch 3286, 29 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine Light Weight, Flat $.95 404 Double Carded Cotton, Rib 1.35 32 Combed Cotton, Lt. Wt. 1.50 252 Cotton Bleached, Med. Wt. 1.75 744 Unbleached, Med. Hvy. 1.85 753 Bleached, Med. Hvy. 1.95 142 WEST SOUTH TEMPLE ST. 622 Mercerized Lisle, Lt. Wt. $2.15 902 Unbleached, Ex. Hvy. 2.50 1072 Super Wool Mixed Shrunk 4.00 Rayon, New Style 2.25 Ladies' hosiery, new shades 1.00 Salt Lake City, Utah Special Sunday Ask for one of our folders describing the different services we offer. Hyland Distinctive Work Office 319 S. Main St. We should'a drunk more milk when we wuz kids Waffles For Breakfast Hotpoint Waffle Irons Bake beautifully brown, delicious waffles—both sides at once without turning. They make them right at the table with no grease or smoke. Just pour on the batter, close the iron, and in a jiffy the waffles are done just right. Hotpoint Waffle Irons are finished in rich polished nickel that stays bright and new. DeLuxe Model $15.00. Another model at $10.50. "The Hotpoint Shop" every time, and the prize is health. Modern Electric Co. Was. 2307 128 South State Electrical Dealers and Contractors 159 W. 1st So. Was. 2177 YOUNG SAMSON knows what he's aiming at—a bottle of our rich, creamy milk. It's a ringer CLOVER LEAF DAIRY INDIVIDUAL SACRAMENT SETS RECOMMENDED BY PATRONS. REFERENCES FURNISHED NOW IN STOCK Made especially for L. D. S. Churches, and successfully used In Utah and intermountain region, also in all Missions in the United States, Europe, and Pacific Islands. Basic metal, Nickel Silver, heavily plated with Solid Silver. SIMPLE, SANITARY, DURABLE Satisfaction guaranteed Inquiries cheerfully answered Bureau of Information Temple Block Salt Lake City When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine CONTENTS A Samaritan High Priest Frontispiece My Son Phyllis Hodgson 60 References for Anniversary Programs 63 Program Nellie Talmage 64 A Lady of Chivalry Josephine Spencer 68 Past Echoes and Present Pep 69 The Fruits of Good and Evil Charles W. Penrose 72 Editorial—President Williams Parts with Life Companion 74 The Centenary of the Birth of Emmeline B. Wells 75 Open Letter to Teachers of Literature Lessons 76 Counselor Jennie B. Knight Honored 78 Does Your Food Burn Correctly? M. N. Butt 79 Laura Moench Jenkins 84 Night Nina Eckart Kerrick 92 Morning 92 High, High Up in the Hills Glen Perrins 93 Abraham Lincoln Christie Lund 94 Heartsease Mrs. Parley Nelson 95 Notes from the Field Amy Brown Lyman 100 Guide Lessons for April 104 Organ of the Relief Society Of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints Room 29 Bishop's Bldg. Salt Lake City, Utah $1.00 a Year—Single Copy, 10c Foreign, $1.25 a Year—15c Single Copy Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah Phone Wasatch 3123 VOL. XV FEBRUARY, 1928 NO. 2 A SAMARITAN HIGH PRIEST AND THE PENTATEUCH "Moreover, thou son of man, take thee one stick, and write upon it, For Judah, and for the children of Israel his companions: then take another stick, and write upon it, For Joseph, the stick of Ephraim, and for all the house of Israel his companions."—Ezekiel 37:16. The frontispiece shows a picture of a Samaritan high priest and an original roll of the pentateuch supposed to be written by Abishua, a descendant of Aaron. We are publishing it primarily that our readers may discover why the ancient scripture was referred to as a stick. My Son FIRST POEM TO RECEIVE HONORABLE MENTION IN THE ELIZA ROXEY SNOW POETRY CONTEST By Phyllis Hodgson The moon, with long bright shafts of light, Has pierced the silent, fragrant night, And pours its rays of pallid gold Upon the sleeping child I hold Against my breast, with fond embrace. It lights his hair, his rounded face, His soft, fringed eyelids, while they close In childhood's dreamless, sweet repose. A thoughtfulness the shadows bring, And, as some melody I sing, I ponder in my heart, and sigh, For something in me seems to cry: "Through all the years that come and go, Oh, will he always love me so, And will he pay, with chivalry, The debt that he has owed to me Since daybreak of that dark, gray morn, That anguished hour when he was born?" I wonder oftentimes, and yet— It matters not if he forget; For when I feel his soft embrace, His baby kisses on my face, And, when to still his childish fears, I kiss away his baby tears, And then at evening, when in rest, He lays upon my throbbing breast His precious curls of shining gold, The debt is paid—an hundred fold! THE Relief Society Magazine VOL. XV FEBRUARY, 1928 NO. 2 REFERENCES FOR ANNIVERSARY PROGRAMS "First Minutes of Relief Society," January Magazine, 1915, page 20; "Instructions of the Prophet Given at Nauvoo," March Magazine, 1915, page 91; "Object, Aims and Brief History of Relief Society," March Magazine, 1915, page 111; "Sketches of the First Five General Presidents," March Magazine, 1920, page 127; "Sketches of President Clarissa S. Williams," July Magazine, 1921, page 378; "Story of the Organization," March Magazine, 1919, page 127; "Our Anniversary," March Magazine, 1921, page 137; "Relief Society Teaching," December Magazine, 1916, page 668; "Relief Society Annual Day," February Magazine, 1923, page 62; "The Relief Society the First Woman's Organization," March Magazine, 1924, page 115; "National Woman's Relief Society—History and Accomplishments," March Magazine, 1925, page 115; "Historical Events in the Relief Society," August Magazine, 1927, page 389. Program Prepared by Nellie Talmage Theme for the evening: Three phases of loyalty as shown by the Relief Society. 1. Loyalty to Home 10 minutes Dramatization: Cornelia's Jewels (Relief Society Magazine, Nov., 1926.) Solo: (While last tableau is held, "Dear Little Mother of Mine.") 2. Loyalty to Church 15 minutes Talk: (What the Relief Society has done to show loyalty to Church and what it may yet do.) 3. Loyalty to Nation 40 minutes Sketch: The Gathering of the Stars. (Columbia sees as in a vision the building of this great nation.) CHARACTERS: Columbia—Dignified young woman dressed in white robe; band around head, gilt star in front. Sits on raised platform with large banner in stand beside her. She rises when she speaks. Thirteen Original Colonies—Twelve singers and a leader, making a chorus. No costuming. The East—Represented by a reader, no costuming. Colonial Days—Two dancers dressed in colonial costume, dance the Minuet. (Music, Mozart's Minuet in G.) The South—Represented by the chorus. The Middle West—Represented by two soloists, a man and a lady, or one soloist and a reader. The West—Represented by a reader, and a soloist. The audience also takes part on the program in giving the salute to the flag and singing the Star Spangled Banner. An accompanist who has the program, music and cues, in her hands before the beginning of the program. Stage—No scenery necessary. Stage reveals Columbia and Flag. Columbia—"Our Flag, Symbol of freedom and right! Broad stripes and stars in field of blue, Courage, purity and truth, Say your colors bright, We pledge allegiance to you!" Congregation—(Arise and repeat together): I pledge allegiance to my flag, And to the republic for which it stands, One nation indivisible, With liberty and justice to all! Columbia— At first there were but thirteen states, And all were very small, But loyal, firm, united, they Never let the Old Flag fall! Chorus—(Sing) "Never Let the Old Flag Fall," by M. F. Kelly, published by Chappell & Co., Ltd., New York. Columbia— Charming were their manners, Dainty was their grace, Kerchief, shawl and polonaise, All trimmed up with lace. Quiet, calm and dignified, In social groups they met; They courtsied, bowed and pointed In the dainty minuet. Colonial Days—(Dancers dance the Minuet. Directions and music found in Clark's "Physical Training Book.”) Columbia— From their early struggle and striving, Their efforts never ceased; Hear now the busy factories And the culture of the East! The East—Reader. (Any good story or poem that will give the spirit of the eastern part of the United States.) Columbia— As years came on there gathered More stars upon the blue; They pushed out to the westward And farther southward, too. Time came when a mighty struggle Between the South and North Brought tears, heartache and sorrow, As men to war went forth. The South was saved for the union; Now sweet voiced singers croon Lovely Southern melodies Under the silvery moon. The South—(Chorus sings "Southern Melodies" of Stephen C. Foster. Arranged by Frank E. Barry.) PROGRAM 65 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Columbia— "More Room! More Room!" the cry came, And on toward the setting sun, And across the mighty rivers, The pilgrimage was begun. They sang and wept and labored, And helped in the way that was best, And hand was clasped in friendship, ~ Out in the Middle West. The Middle West—Solo: ("Out Where the West Begins," by Pellmeo.) Columbia— Our native and adopted state, Illinois, We'll rise while is sung Our own dear song, Illinois. (This program was given originally in Chicago, Logan Square Branch.) Solo— Illinois State Song." (Congregation arose while the — first verse was sung. In any other state a reader should read in this place, Carl Sandburg's "Chicago.'') Columbia— "Westward, ho!" The great ox trains Plodding the whole day through, Over the lonesome prairies, Till the mountains came in view. Trudging onward and upward, On to the mountain heights, Through the heat of the day-time, Resting in the cool of the night. Some seeking farms and fortune, Some to the goldfields went, Some to the valleys of the mountains, Where their lives in worship were spent. Breathe deep and drink in the beauty Of the mountain's snowcapped crest, Of the clear-aired peaceful valleys, Of the sparkling streams of the West! The West—Reader: ("Out West Where Dreams Come True." ) Columbia— And one band journeying westward, Sang as the plains they trod. "For the strength of the hills we bless Thee, Our God, our father's God." PROGRAM 67 They were led by inspiration, The faithful Pioneer band, Through the wilds of the Rocky Mountains, To Utah, the promised land! Let us rise in salute to Utah, As her song is sung tonight, Her star shines in the banner, Shines with honor, splendor bright! Solo—("Utah, We Love Thee," by Evan Stephens. Congregation stands during the singing of the first verse.) Columbia— "T love every inch of her prairie land, Every stone on her mountain side, I love every drop of water clear That flows in her rivers wide. I love every tree, every blade of grass Within Columbia's gates, The queen of the earth Is the land of my birth, My own United States!" Congregation—("The Star Spangled Banner.) I Must Hold On Suggested by the modern tendency to dig up "brutal" truths about great heroes like George Washington and others. By Eugene L. Roberts I must hold on, for if I lose my grip, A hundred souls may follow after. No life is one, but all are inter-knit, And my misdeed may spread disaster. God give me power to see with steadfast eye This oft forgotten truth in life; And let each hour of tempting impulse die To leave me stronger for the strife. But if I fail in weakness or despair,. God keep the truth from those I guide, That they may all in blessed ignorance bear Illusions of my strength that died. Since every act is built upon a dream, And dreams are goals inspiring youth, Let none detract from virtues as they seem In needless search for brutal truth. A LAY OF CHIVALRY By Josephine Spencer Close where the Winter's bivouacked reserve Holds its last trenches, pitching stubborn tents In tangled forests where some shadowed curve Fosters the cause with rebel insolence,— A troop of buds—the Spring's young chivalry— Silently creep, where sluggish outposts lie— Frost sentinels asleep with sun-drugged sense— And at some dawn, before the swallow's view Has stumbled on the Spring's thin trail of blue, Over the crumbling bastions of the camp— So shortly since a regnant field of snow— With glow of daffodil and crocus lamp, Swiftly they clamber, whilst the routed foe Fly with mist-banners trailing worn and low. Past Echoes and Present Pep By Grace A. Woodbury Characters: Four ladies representing four generations (Great Grandma, Grandma, Mother and Daughter) girls of today and of yesterday. As scene opens a mother of today is sewing on a thin dimity dress of today's style. With her ls her grandmother and mother. G. G. Is knitting, G. M. Is darning stockings for her grandaughter.) G. M.: It seems to me that Louise is getting old enough to darn her own stockings. Not that I mind helping you out, Mary, but these silk stockings just don't have anything to darn to. I should think her legs would freeze. She's surely planning for a rheumaticky old age. I tell you, you never went out in any such stockings when you were her age. G. G.: Gracious goodness, I should say she didn't, neither did you. Good, home-knit stockings are the proper kind for everyone to wear. Now when Joseph was a baby I knit him a nice pair of white yarn, with red stripes around them and he never did wear them out, but these shoddy things you buy today are hardly worth carrying home. Now just look at this pair I am wearing, third year and never come to darning yet. Mother: I don't see how you can stand those wooly things, grandmother, in such warm weather. They give me the itch just to look at them. G. M.: Well, I must say, while home-knit wool stocking are all very well for winter, I find I can keep plenty warm enough in summer without them. Mother: (Holding up the dainty dress she has finished). Well, as far as I know, no one will deprive you, dear ladies, of the pleasure you get out of wearing your wool stockings all year round or only part of it, just as you like. But just tell me how Louise would look in this (shows the dress) with wool stockings. G. G.: Well, I must say, that even if they wouldn't look very well together, I would have the satisfaction of knowing that at least part of her would be properly clad. G. M.: (Examining dress.) It does seem a bit slimsy, doesn't it? And not much shape to it; she'll wear it out in one summer. Whey, when you were a girl, Mary, I made your dresses over and over—and—. Mother: (Interrupting.) Yes, I know you did, I don't think I ever did wear out any of my dresses, the material was so very 70 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE substantial. J have several, upstairs, now that Louise used to like to dress up in. G. M.: You must remember, Mary, when you were young that a dress was a dress, and I. Couldn't afford to buy a dress that would wear out in one season. G. G.: I am still wearing a brocaded silk that I have had for twenty-five years. Mother: Yes, but did you ever happen to think, mother, that a pair of leg-o-mutton sleeves would make a dress like this, that the material used in one hoop skirt, such as grandma used to wear, would make dresses for three or four girls of today. (Louise has come in during the latter part of the conversation.) Louise: Oh! Mother, what do you know about this, Jack Goodwin told Mary Clark today that he thought I was some classy little Jane. Said he liked girls with lots of pep and said he would step me to the dance tonight if he had the nerve and— — — G. G.: (To Grandma.) Dear me, what is the child talking about?: Pep and nerve! Who ever heard that pepper was good for nervous trouble. Lowise: Why, hello, old dears. I was so excited I never noticed you before, but you wouldn't blame me, if you knew Jack Goodwin. Why! He's a regular shiek! G. G.: A shiek! A shiek! Is the child talking about a foreigner? Louise: Let's see, how can I put it up to you, so you'll understand just what I mean by a fellow being a shiek. Now grandma, just suppose you were young and had a crush on some boy, who wanted to step with you awhile; and you were just crazy to have him. What would he say to you and how would you answer him? G. G.: (Primly.) He would first ask my father's permission to call on me, then if father gave his consent, he would then ask me for the pleasure of my company, and if I approved of him, I would say, "I shall be pleased to have you accompany me to the party," or "through life," just as the case might be. Louise: My! What a long round about process. No wonder they had to travel with ox team. Imagine trying to say all of that to a guy in a jitney.. G. M.: How I loathe those smelly, noisy cars. It doesn't seem respectful to hurry so; carriages are more to my liking. G. G.: It really seems disgusting to honk one's friend out, when calling to take them for a ride. Louise: Gee, what slow times you had. From what you say, I would imagine that a rag bee would seem wildly exciting. G. M.: I am certain that we enjoyed our quiet parties and modest dresses as well as you do your noisy dances and those sleeveless, collarless apologies, you call dresses. PAST ECHOES AND PRESENT PEP 7\ Louise: Please don't bawl me out any more, but tell me, What, oh! What can I tell my grandchildren? Mother: Don't worry dear, by the time you have grandchildren, dresses will be so short that you can say, ""My dear, when I was a girl my dresses reached clear down to my knees." (All laugh.) G. G.: I have a plan to suggest that will show you that the boys and girls of my day really were superior to the young folks of today in matters of dress, dancing, and general conduct. I am going to invite a number of my old friends and their partners and we'll wear our old fashioned clothes, dance our graceful old dances and sing our sweet, old songs. Mother: And just to show you that my friends were just as well behaved as you and your friends were, I'll invite some of them and we, too, will have a good time like we used to have when I was a girl. Louise: Now you are shouting; bring on your Rip Van Winkles and their wives. Grandma and mother will trot out some of their old stiffs and I bring in some of my peppy bunch and we'll see just how much better we are than you, and we'll leave it to the crowd to judge which of the three generations are the worst actors. (Goes to telephone and calls up Jack.) Hello, Jack? Come over tonight if you want to have the time of your young life, and bring Belle and Bill, and May and Jim with you. Sure, bring them, the more the merrier., G. M.: I must tell grandpa to call around and invite my friends. (Goes off stage as mother calls.) Mother: Just as well call them up on the phone, Mother. G. M.: (Primly.) No thanks. I don't like this modern way of inviting people to parties and that person you call central is rather inquisitive anyway. Mother: (Goes to telephone saying): Queer how these old people can't get used to modern conveniences. Yet Louise laughs at me because I won't drive the car. (Goes to telephone as curtain falls.) ACT—II. (As scene opens the four groups): G. G. In clothes of youthful days, light basques, full skirt, leg-o-mutton sleeves, etc. Grandmothers in skirts and waists; small waists, large bustles. Mothers in flounced or ruffled dress, bow of ribbon on hair, etc. Louise in modern, one piece short dresses, bobbed hair, etc. Group One sings: "Wait till the Clouds Roll by." Group Two sings: "Wake, Lady, Awake." Group three sings: "Two Little Girls in Blue," or "After the Ball." RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Group four sings: "Yes sir, she's my baby," or any other late, jazzy song. The songs are followed by a dance from each group: One: "Minuet" Two: "Quadrille" Three: "Waltz" (out) Four: "Fox Trot" (Other songs may be sung if desired; these are given as suggestions. As this playlet was put on entirely by Relief Society members, ladies dressed for men. Fat ladies dressed as men, with tall thin partners. This caused much fun.) The Fruits of Good and Evil An Unpublished Poem By Charles W. Penrose In all our lives how careful should we be To square our actions by the rule of right, To speak the language of sincerity, And shun the path that will not bear the light. Who can the hasty, bitter word unsay? Who can a single deed obliterate? A flood of tears will wash no act away, Nor grief, the spoken thought annihilate. Our works on earth are like the seeds we sow, They pass from sight and fade from memory: But from them good or evil fruit shall grow, To multiply throughout eternity. No skill of man can make two kinds of fruit Grow from one seed, however rich the ground: And ne'er on branches from an evil root, Shall buds of good and evil both be found. Fruits "in their kind" from seeds prolific spring, In their own likeness they come forth again: And so our actions, right or wrong, shall bring To us a crop of good or evil grain. And fertile germs in their production dwell, Each to perpetuate their species still. When shall they cease to spread? Ah, who can tell? Who stop their increase by his feeble will? THE FRUITS OF GOOD AND EVIL 73 Do good to others; though ingratitude May often chill the warm and gen'rous heart, And though thy motives may be misconstrued, Still act a Godlike, charitable part. Hold not thine hand from doing worthy things, Though praised by none and known to God alone; Virtue shall be the glory of the kings Who share the splendor of the Father's throne. Oh! Think not that the shades of darkest night Can hide the wickedness in secret done! With all its dire effects 'twill come to light, And blast with trembling shame the guilty one. Beware of doing wilful injury, Close not thine ear to mercy's pleading voice, For thine own measure shall come back to thee, To bring despair, or make thy soul rejoice. Note: February 4 will be the anniversary of President Penrose's ninety-sixth birthday. Design for Shakespeare Memorial Theatre Made by Women It will be a matter of interest to women in general to learn that the design of Miss Elizabeth Scott for the new Shakespeare Memorial Theatre to be built at Stratford-on-avon has been accepted. The memorial theatre at Stratford is of general interest and it is in line with the achievements of modern women that one should draw a plan that has proved acceptable. Another thing about it that is interesting is that the plan looks very much like an old medieval castle. The name Scott usually suggests the name of Sir Walter Scott, the great novelist who did so much to revive the middle ages in his long list of extraordinary novels. THE RELIEF SOCIETY OF THE CHURCH OF JESUS CHRIST OF LATTER-DAY SAINTS Motto—Charity Never Faileth THE GENERAL BOARD MRS. CLARISSA SMITH WILLIAMS =- - - - - President MRS, JENNIE BRIMHALL KNIGHT - - - - - - ~- | First Counselor MRS. LOUISE YATES ROBINSON - - - - - - - Second Counselor MRS, AMY BROWN LYMAN - - - - - General Secretary and Treasurer MRS. AMY BROWN LYMAN - - - - - General Secretary and Treasurer Mrs. Emma A. Empey Mrs. Lotta Paul Baxter Mrs. Ethel Reynolds Smith Mrs. Jeanette A. Hyde Mrs. Julia A. Child Mrs. Barbara Howell Richards Miss Sarah M. McLelland Mrs. Cora L. Bennion Mrs. Rosannah C. Irvine Mrs. Annie Wells Cannon Mrs. Julia A. F. Lund Miss Alice Louise Reynolds Mrs. Lalene H. Hart Mrs. Amy Whipple Evans Mrs. Nettie D. Bradford Mrs. Lizzie Thomas Edward, Music Director Miss Edna Coray, Organist RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Editor: = Clarissa SMITH WILLIAMS Associate Editor- Alice Louise Reynolds Assistant Manager - -: - - - - Amy Brown LYMAN Room 28, Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah Magazine entered as second-class matter at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah VoL. XV FEBRUARY, 1928 No. Editorial President Williams Parts with her Life's Companion The heart-felt sympathy of the members of the General Board, all stake and ward officers, and members of the Relief Society the world over, goes out to President Clarissa Smith Williams in the great loss she has sustained in the death of her much beloved and devoted companion. For many months Senator Williams has been confined to his bed of suffering. All that skill and patient, loving hands could do to lighten his pain and give comfort during the period of his illness has been done. Chief among those who have ministered to him has been his beloved wife, assisted by their devoted daughter, Miss Bae Williams. At the service Elder George Albert Smith expressed the idea that Brother Williams' work, which marks a life of achievement, has been given that support that only a devoted and intelligent wife could give; consequently, his success was in a measure her success. In this regard what was true of Sister Williams was also true of Brother Williams. Senator Williams has shown the keenest interest in all of his wife's public work. There was no detail too small for him to take note of. On the 15th day of December we had occasion to visit Sister Williams to EDITORIAL 79 present to her the sketch for the new Magazine cover. She examined it and then said, "Take it in and let Brother Williams see it, for he has been waiting eagerly ever since he knew you were coming." We carried it in to him. He made some comments in relation to it when suddenly he caught sight of the two Relief Society teachers at the door, then his eyes filled with tears, and in words scarcely audible he expressed his appreciation. Many members of the General Board will doubtless recall with what pride he took part in the unveiling of the oil painting of President Williams that now adorns the walls of the Board room. His tribute to his wife on that occasion glowed with admiration and sincere devotion. It must be a matter of the deepest satisfaction to her to realize that she and her husband have builded well, and that love and harmony, together with other Christian virtues, have united to make their union outstanding and beautiful. President Williams' co-workers in the great organization at whose head she stands, with marked graciousness and nobility, unite in extending to her and to her sons and daughters their love and sympathy in this hour of keen sorrow. They pray that the mellowing influence of our Father's Spirit may abide with them to give comfort and all needed support. In extending our love and sympathy to our esteemed and much beloved leader we shall make use of Alfred Tennyson's noted lines written to Queen Victoria on the occasion of the death of the Prince Consort: "May all love, His love, unseen but felt, o'ershadow thee, The love of all thy sons encompass thee, The love of all thy daughters cherish thee, The love of all thy people comfort thee, Till God's love set thee at his side again!" The Centenary of the Birth of Emmeline B. Wells It will be one hundred years on the 29th day of February, 1928, since Emmeline B. Wells was born, yet her name is still a household word, and the vision of the slight figure with the keen eyes has not yet begun to fade from the memory of the thousands who knew her. To many she was patriot, pioneer, poet and president, all in one. The Patriot: The first definite thought we have of her is connected with the birth of her country, for she loved to tell how her grandfather, dressed in the uniform of a soldier of the American Revolution, came to take dinner with her on her first birthday when she was four years old. She treasured at all times the provisions of the American Constitution and was most valiant in her efforts to bring 76 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE about an amendment to that constitution enfranchising the women of the nation. This deep-seated desire she saw realized before the day of her death, being permitted to vote, as she was many times, on the great national issues of her day. The Pioneer: It seldom falls to the lot of one to be a pioneer in so full and so complete a sense as was "Aunt Em Wells." She lived in a covered wagon on the very spot where the Hotel Utah now stands. Indeed, a daughter was born to her there. She was one of the very first teachers of Salt Lake City, and her school room was a log cabin. She was editor and business manager of the Woman's Exponent, a magazine which was the forerunner of the Relief Society Magazine, a periodical that will become increasingly valuable as the days go by, for the historical data contained in its pages. In pioneer days it was a real achievement to make successful any literary venture, but to be able in the face of all existing prejudice to carry on and publish a woman's magazine was extraordinary in the highest sense of the word. The Poet: The pages of the Woman's Exponent were often enlivened and given exquisite touches through the verses of its editor. The poems that filled the columns of her magazine were often resplendant with descriptions of New England pine and hemlock as well as the sunshine of this western desert and the gurgle and ripple of its canyon streams. Her words have been caught by little children whose sweet voices carry forth the melody to which her verses have been set, and thus the valleys have been made to ring with the music of her song. The President: Thousands of women in the Church will recall the years of her presidency of the Relief Society. 'They will bring to mind the fact that to her was given the mission of gathering and saving wheat for future times. They will recall, among other things, that she was visited by many, many noted persons, and that she had met practically all the presidents of the United States, from Lincoln to Wilson, and that her name was known far over land and sea. It isa fitting tribute to her life, that a committee of women from varied organizations are interested at the present time in a memorial bust to mark the centenary of her birth. Open Letter to Teachers of Literature Lessons So many letters have come into the office asking for reference books relating to the Literature course that we are including an open letter in the editorial department which we trust will satisfy our readers. EDITORIAL 77 The first two writers in this year's course belong to the American group. Last year the book recommended was American Poetry, by Louis Untermeyer, so that we felt that most libraries and organizations that wished to supply themselves with that book had already done so. The three British writers used are John Masefield, Alfred Edward Housman, and Robert Louis Stevenson. It would not be a bad idea to go to your libraries in your various communities and ask them to purchase Modern British Poetry, by Louis Untermeyer, published by Harcourt, Brace and Howe, New York. That book would give you the three British authors mentioned. We do not feel that it would be right to ask organizations to buy it for two lessons. The Canadian authors are William Henry Drummond and Charles G. D. Roberts. We do not feel justified in asking organizations to buy a manual of Canadian literature for two lessons, but we do feel justified in asking them to get the libraries in their communities to buy it. We recommend Highways of Canadian Literature by J. D. Logan and Donald G. French, published by McClelland & Stewart, Toronto, Canada. The western writers are all living and perhaps in no case have yet published a volume of their poetry. What we expect to do is to get these various people to write rather complete sketches of their lives and submit a number of poems from which we shall make a rather wide selection and publish in the Magazine. If any of these poets live in your vicinity it might be a good idea to invite them to appear before large groups and talk, and in that way you will be able to become more intimate with the people than you might otherwise become. Of course, this idea of having the poets come and talk to you must be left to their personal discretion, and none should feel in any way disturbed if for any reason they do not care to accept the invitations tendered. We have very greatly appreciated the initiative and ambition shown by our workers who have gone out and collected material not published in the Magazine to enrich the lessons, but we shall have to ask them not to feel disappointed when we come to our home writers if they are not able to find material not in the lessons. This condition cannot be remedied for if we study people who are now living, and who have not published books, we have to do the pioneering and publish the first material that may be accessible. Of course, the poems of all of these people have been published in Church magazines for years and many will have access to the back volumes of our Church magazines. They will furnish you with poems that could not possibly be ee in one lesson. We trust that this statement will meet the questions in your mind and that you will help us in this effort to make you acquainted 78 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE with some of our home writers. We earnestly ask your cooperation and good will in the task that lies before us. Counselor Jennie B. Knight Honored Again the members of the General Board and all associated with the Relief Society will feel a sense of pride and pleasure in the fact that Mrs. Jennie B. Knight was selected as a member of the nominating committee at the recent biennial of the National Council of Women. Not only was she a member of the nominating committee but from that group she, with Miss Tellberg of Vassar College, was selected to interview President Valeria H. Parker in regard to accepting another term as presiding officer of the Council. We are exceedingly happy that Mrs. Knight could make it convenient to attend the conference. Editor's Note The present issue of the Relief Society Magazine aims to be helpful to the organization during the month of March, which is the anniversary month. We are therefore publishing a list of references to articles in past issues of the Magazine that give data concerning the history of the organization and other matters of interest. We are including two plays that might be made use of for entertainment on the 17th of March. One is a program arranged by Mrs. Nelle Talmage and the other a play written by Mrs. Grace A. Woodbury. You are under no obligation to make use of the material because it is published in the Magazine. We are simply trying to meet some of the requests that come constantly to the office for historical data and material that might be used for entertainment. Does Your Food Burn Correctly By N. I. Butt The good cook makes her dinner tasty by a delicate balance of all the ingredients. We sometimes marvel at the skill of such a cook, but have you ever compared her with the agents which combine the various chemicals resulting from the digestion of our food. We speak of skill among cooks and chemists, but in terms of the exactitude which God gave to our bodies, the mechanical skill of man is clumsy and amateurish. No chemist is so careful that a mistake is not occasionally made in mixing his chemicals, and no cook is so painstaking that she never forgets to add salt to some dish. The most renowned chemist on earth could not take the food you eat and mix it so that, were it injected into your blood stream as your digestive system injects it, your body would not sicken and die. The body has a whole cupboard-full of delicate seasoning fluids stored away in handy portions of the system, and when some food contains too much salt, too much of certain acids, or some other excess or deficiency, these organs immediately commence to throw counteracting or supplementing substances into the blood, so that there is never more than a fraction of a per cent difference in the composition of the body. Should you be so neglectful of food values that you consistently fail to fully supply your body with some vital chemical such as calcium or iodine, the organ which controls this constituent sends chemical messengers to the storehouses of the deficient substances ordering the release of enough of the lacking material to prevent disastrous results within the body. Fortunately for the human race, during times of plenty, the body looks to the future, filling its cupboards with the supplies most needed when scarcity comes. During summer, for instance, we may eat more of the element calcium than we need, and part is stored. The following winter we may neglect foods high in calcium and a shortage results. The chemical messengers are then dispatched to borrow calcium from the bones, intending to repay them when the supply again becomes plentiful. If this deficiency continues for long periods, however, the calcium controlling organ may become overworked and diseased, whereupon the possessor of the body is taken down with some type of sickness. It would be too long and tedious a task to try to illustrate in detail the trials and struggles which we foolishly impose on 80 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE each of our body regulators, so we shall use only a single one, the thyroid gland. This gland is of special interest to the people of the intermountain region because it is very often overworked and diseased. From 25 to 85 per cent of the school children of Utah have been found to have at least mild defects of this gland. The thyroid gland is one of what might be called the automatic heat regulating devices of the body. The food which you eat burns in the body the same as it does if you throw it into the fire. The burning process in the body, however, must be controlled, else the fires would grow too hot and consume the tissues. Every cook knows that sugar in a pan burns more quickly than cabbage or a good tough beefsteak. This difference in rapidity of burning applies equally well within the body. If we are normal, our temperatures must remain almost stationary, but if some quick burning substance like candy be piled into the system it tends to cause a feverish temperature. When this begins the thyroid gland must commence to throw fire extinguishing liquids into the body to slow down the rate of burning. In the summertime, when the air is warmer than the body, there is a tendency for rapid burning within the tissues, resulting in overheating. The thyroid takes care of this tendency, or the opposite one which comes during winter, with such nicety that we seldom vary in temperature a single degree in a year. The year-by-year rate of burning varies considerably at different ages. It is low just after birth, then it increases rapidly until almost school age, after which there is a rapid lowering for ten or fifteen years. The period of life above about twenty years is marked by a slow rate. The periods of rapid heat production, it will be noted, come during times when there is rapid growth or sudden changes in life. Women are subject to greater variation than men, because they must burn enough food to supply their nursing babies, and they have other disturbances at puberty and thereafter which call for sudden changes in the rate of food burning. For these reasons, it is perhaps more important that the thyroid of women be kept in good working order, than it is for men. The thyroid gland in some individuals is extra active, while in others it is sluggish. Those with overactive glands burn food very rapidly, and this causes them to have voracious appetites, or eat what appears to be excessive quantities of food, yet they do not grow fat; in fact they are often very skinny. Those with sluggish thyroids, on the other hand, burn food slowly, and may grow fat when eating comparatively small quantities of food. Goiter, the visible indication that the thyroid gland is having difficulty with its work, occurs among girls and women about twice as often as it does among boys and men. The average rate among school girls in Utah in 1924 was 54 per cent, while that for DOES YOUR FOOD BURN PROPERLY? 81 boys was 31 per cent. Among the adults in Spanish Fork, Utah, 42 per cent of the women had goiter, but only 17 per cent of the men were thus affected. As is well known there are two types of goiter, the ordinary one, recognized by an enlargement just below and on either side of the Adam's apple, and the "pop-eyed" type. The former when well developed sometimes causes the victim to be depressed and constantly nervous; also to have pasty faces, dull eyes, and ashy complexions. These serious cases are often accompanied by enlargements, sometimes reaching the size of the clenched fist, and the swelling presses on the blood vessels, arteries and muscles causing various complications. If the trouble begins during infancy, it may result in an idiotic dwarf called a cretin. The second type of goiter, the "pop-eyed," is usually accompanied by hot and cold flushes, warm sweats, rapid pulse, and bulging eyes. Patients with this type have a high death rate and usually must undergo a surgical operation if they recover. Fortunately only about two per cent of the total goiter cases are of this more violent type. It is not entirely clear just how the thyroid gland proceeds to regulate the burning of food. But however it happens, the element iodine, known to everyone in its dissolved form as one of the best antiseptics for wounds, is essential. The quantity of iodine needed is very small, a 130-pound or 2,080-ounce individual containing only two-thirds of an ounce in his whole body. Most of the two-thirds of an ounce, however, is concentrated in the thyroid gland in the form of an extremely complicated chemical called thyroxin, which acts as an agent to manufacture the regulating fluid. When the cook begins to make a dessert, and finds that she has no sugar to satisfy her recipe, she may search around for some substitute such as syrup or honey. The thyroid tries to do exactly the same thing when our food contains no iodine to satisfy the recipe it is using; it tries to substitute another element for the iodine. But just as the cook's dessert may not taste exactly right, so the substitute used by the thyroid is flat. The thyroid in its endeavor to manufacture the thyroxin without the iodine, overworks itself, and puts more of this element into active use than is best for the gland. The over-activity causes the swelling which gives us the visible sign of goiter. Most people who have not studied the goiter problem think that it is a trouble confined to man, but like most diseases to which man is subject, we find many goiterous animals. In fact wholesale curing of goiter was performed on fish, colts, calves, and sheep before it was used on children. Dogs were the first animals used to prove that a lack of iodine will cause goiter, and that in about 95 per cent of the cases that have not progressed too far, iodine will restore the individual to normal. When this fact had 82 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE been established, we began to glance about to see how general goiter was and discovered the rather serious condition which we now know of. Practically all of the interior parts of the world thus far studied show a lack of iodine in foods and a high prevalence of goiter. The World War draft examinations, and the recent study of school children, show that a very serious condition exists in the intermountain states, including Utah. This does not apply to all sections of the country, as the iodine present varies from place to place. Alpine canyon water has been found to contain only 18 parts of iodine in each hundred billion parts of water, whereas only a few miles away, at Goshen, the water showed 250 parts per hundred billion. In the latter place the children were goiterous in only 17 per cent of the total; whereas, in Alpine, where the children were drinking the water with only a smaller quantity of iodine, goiter occurred among 58 per cent of the total. Some of the children in every locality in Utah were apparently suffering for want of iodine. Since we know that the majority of cases of ordinary goiter can be cured, or at least greatly benefited, by supplying the thyroid gland with iodine, a solution of the problem is at hand. The next question is, what is the best way to supply the deficiency? The schools are attempting to answer this question by the use of chocolate-coated iodine tablets. They seem to be having good success. But waiting until the children reach school age may be assuming too great a risk. Nutrition experts inform us that many cases of malnutrition began to develop before the children were born, and continued until maturity was reached. The same may be said of iodine deficiency. In regions like Utah where iodine is scarce, mothers who take iodine through the period of expectancy have less disturbance and discomfort, and their children are more likely to be vigorous and free from goiter, than do mothers who fail to observe this precaution. If the mother continues to take iodine during the nursing period, and the child is then kept supplied with iodine throughout its youth, there is not the danger of improper development that there is if no precautions are taken until school age is reached. Interior regions can sometimes correct the deficiency in iodine by a wise choice of foods, but this usually requires the purchase of foods which have been shipped in from near the oceans. Edible sea weeds, agar, and water cress are among the best plants for furnishing iodine, and next comes lemons and lettuce. None of these, however, rank anywhere near such sea-fish as oysters, codfish, lobsters, shrimp, and mackerel. Salmon is probably the cheapest of the sea-fish which are high in iodine, but ranks considerably below those mentioned above. Most inland people, however, cannot afford to buy enough DOES YOUR FOOD BURN PROPERLY? 83 of the sea-foods to fully supply their thyroid glands with iodine. Cheaper though less satisfactory means are available for these people, by the use of iodized salt and iodine tablets. Some cities have been experimenting with iodine placed in the city water systems. Iodized salt is about the cheapest source of iodine, but the iodine tablets have the advantage of containing the iodine in an organic compound, and therefore, more readily available to the body. Adults should always use caution in attempting to correct thyroid troubles by the use of either salt or the chocolate coated tablets. Some adults have disagreeable disturbances when they use more than small quantities of iodine, and foodstuffs high in this substance are the only hope for them. Rapidly growing children seldom experience such difficulties, so the cheaper sources of iodine are available for those who are most likely to be benefited by its use. It is usually advisable for adults to consult with a physician before attempting to cure goiter by the use of iodine, because adults are sometimes at a stage beyond hope of relief by such means. No one with the "pop-eyed" type of goiter should attempt to effect a cure by means of iodine without first consulting a physician, because only a small proportion of this variety of trouble yields to the iodine treatment, and some cases are actually made worse by the use of iodine. Fire-Flies of the Fog (The Woman Drives Her Car) By Linda S. Fletcher The globules of the mist For phantoms of the gloom Lurk in my way, Enshroud the dusky Night There, to and fro, disport, With silver pall; In solitude I purr along, Ahead, and all about me, throng Bright fire-flies in a darting glow of light, Weaving through gray. Busily gay; And yet a thrill of joy I know "Danger!" they call. As shadows fall; His Mother's Promise By Laura Moench Jenkins "Thy watchman shall lift up the voice; with the voice together shall they sing: for they shall see eye to eye, when the Lord shall bring again Zion." The reader, a boy of ten years, raised his eyes from the book on his knee and addressed the wan figure on the bed. "The Lord will bring again Zion," he repeated, "Mother, does that mean the Lord will bring Zion from heaven?" "I think not, my son," the sick woman answered, "it is a city that will be built upon the earth in the last days." The boy sat lost in thought. "Mother," he queried at last, "will we ever see Zion?" A moment of heavy breathing and the sick woman thoughtfully replied: "My son, I shall never live to see Zion, but I promise you that, when I am gone, if you will always live as I have taught you— you shall yet go to Zion." It was a plain little room and a plain little cottage in the village of Neuphen, Germany, almost a century ago. The mother was Frau Rochell and the boy her son Karl. The time had been when the father, Herr Rochell, had been considered a rich man; he was a tanner, and owned the tanyard at the outskirts of the village, and Frau Rochell was loved by all the villagers for her hospitality. But reverses came, war held the country in its grip, and after that war debts were to be paid and taxes were high and there were losses and failures in business, until finally Herr Rochell decided to leave all and seek his fortune in the much talked of land of America. In the spring of 1850 he bade his family adieu and set sail over the great Atlantic for the harbor of New York. Frau Rochell, with her eight children, remained in the old home to await the outcome of the father's expedition. She was a frugal woman, but her family was large and it took a big loaf of brown bread to feed eight hungry mouths and there was little else. She spent much of her time among the sick of the village and her son Johann, a sturdy lad of sixteen years, worked in the tanyard which had been owned by his father, but wages were low and there was little to earn. In the new world, however, Herr Rochell was quite successful, and before winter came again, he was able to send his family enough money to make them more comfortable. But America was a long way off and it took six weeks for HIS MOTHER'S PROMISE 85 a letter to cross the big blue ocean and often the family were without even the necessities, depending upon the scanty earnings of the mother and Johann. Two years passed in this way, and then, one day there came a letter from America containing passage money for Johann and Mary to join their father in New York. Herr Rochell now owned a tanyard in that state and felt, with Johann to assist him in his business and Mary, now a young woman of fifteen years, to keep up their home, he could soon save means to emigrate Frau Rochell and the little ones. There was a dull heavy ache in the mother's heart as she made preparations for the departure of her children, the question, "Would they ever meet again?" kept rising in her bosom. She concealed her forebodings, however, and one bright May morning Johann and Mary kissed her goodbye and started on their long journey. Bravely Frau Rochell struggled on through another summer and the ensuing autumn, but her health was slowly failing. Winter came again and there was little food in the home; vainly she watched for the letter from America to relieve the wants of her family. At length, there came a day when there was no food and six hungry mouths to be fed. For many days she had eaten little herself, that the scant supply might last till the letter from father would reach them, but it had not come and now they were without. It was a cold December day, the snow was falling and a chill wind blowing. Frau Rochell rose early in the morning and wrapping her thin faded shawl around her shoulders, started out to seek work that perchance she might earn a few pennies and bring home a loaf of brown bread to her hungry little ones. All day she wandered over the village and all day the children watched for her return. At last, weary and disheartened, she came again to her home. Thinking she had brought them food, the children rushed to meet her. It was too much for the weary woman. She dropped into a chair and buried her face in her hands. "Children," she sobbed, "I have nothing for you." Silence fell over the room and for some moments nothing was heard but the heart-broken sobs of the mother. At length she became calm and called her daughter Barbara to her side. "Go, my child, to the cellar," she directed, "and bring what sauerkraut there still remains. The little ones must be fed or they will starve." The girl obeyed and while she was gone Karl, her younger brother, gathered a few sticks and built a fire in the old fashioned fireplace and the cold, starving children gathered around the comforting blaze. The kraut was cooked and eaten, and that night the family 86 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE became violently ill. The kraut was too heavy for their empty stomachs and two days later the two younger children, Ludwig and Louise, died from the effects. Too late the villagers came to the assistance of Frau Rochell and her family, and though the next day brought the long looked for letter from America, want and hunger had done their cruel work. The heart-broken mother never recovered from her terrible experience, overworked and undernourished, she became an easy victim for the grim white plague which made rapid inroads on her depleted body, and she took to her bed to rise no more. During that last, long illness, her greatest comfort was to listen to her son Karl read for her from her Lutheran Bible; hour after hour, he sat at her bedside reading its pages and listening to her explanation. And here is where our story finds them. Karl Rochell pondered long on the promise made him by his mother. She had told him he should go to Zion, and he never doubted her words, but where would Zion be? Time passed on, and one cold February morning the spirit of Frau Rochell took its flight and four motherless children stood weeping at her bedside. "Fear not though I die," she had told them, "I will never leave you," and these prophetic words were the only comfort left to that stricken household. The death of his wife was a severe blow to Herr Rochell and as soon as possible he sent for the remaining children, reuniting his family at last in America. New York was truly a new world to Karl Rochell. Everything was different, the boys with whom he associated, their mode of dress, they played different games and they spoke a different language. But Karl was young and soon mastered the new tongue and all the rest of it. In fact, he preferred New York to Neuphen except for one thing, and that was his home life. Home life in New York without his mother could never be what home in Neuphen had been with her in it. She had taught him to pray, and morning and evening reminded him of his prayers. No one bothered about that now. Father was too busy, when he was at home he just smoked his pipe and read the German papers. His sister Barbara always seemed to him very much like his mother, however, and he loved to sit and talk to her when they were alone. "Barbara," he said to her as they sat alone together one evening, "New York is a big fine place and Taylor's Hollow where we now live is better than Neuphen, but sometime I'd like to go home again." "But Karl," she replied with a little choke in her voice, "mother would not be there." HIS MOTHER'S PROMISE 87 "I know it, Barbara," was the response, "home would never be the same without her. I guess it's better to stay here. We're never cold or hungry now, are we, sister?" "No, dear," was the reply, "how I wish mother could have lived to see us so comfortable." A silence followed, broken only by the half suppressed sobs of the two children. "Barbara," the boy whispered when they had become calm again, "this cannot be Zion even though it is a better place than Neuphen." "Oh, Karl, what a funny boy you are! What makes you think about Zion?" and Barbara gave a little laugh and drew him to her almost like his mother used to do. For a moment the boy sat lost in thought. "Barbara," he replied at last, "once, just a little while before mother died, I read in her Bible that God would again send Zion. Mother said it was a beautiful city, which God would have built in the last days in the tops of the mountains, and sister, she said if I would always be good and do as she had taught me, some day I should go there." "There's mountains here," replied Barbara. "Yes, but this cannot be Zion, because people are not good. The boys are not good, they steal poor old man Casey's apples." "But you do not, do you Karl?" and Barbara gave him a confidential little hug as she put the question. "I don't know," he stammered, "sometimes I forget about mother and Zion and take a few apples so the boys won't call me names. No, Barbara, this is not Zion. Mother said the people who go to Zion will be good. Sometimes I forget to pray, and last night I dreamed I saw mother. I guess she wants me to be a better boy." Barbara Rochell's heart gave a little thud. Was the Zion mother had spoken of heaven, and was this little brother going there with her? She caught him to her bosom and he put his arms around her neck. Suddenly the door opened and Herr Rochell entered. "Ach, meine kinder! Gehe zu deinem bette." Never accustomed to question or argue with their father, the two children, so unceremoniously dismissed, wished their father "goodnight" and quietly retired. Herr Rochell was an industrious man and believed in developing habits of industry in his children. In fact, this was the secret of his success in the new world. Faithfully Johann had labored by his father's side since his childhood and Karl was expected to do the same. During the winter months the boy attended the village school and advanced rapidly. The remainder of the year he labored with his father and brother in the tanyard. 88 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE But Karl was ambitious. He never liked the tanyard. There was within his bosom a longing for an education and he was often roused from his day dreams by a sharp reprimand from his father or one of the men. Johann, however, was very patient with his younger brother. Something in his big blue eyes reminded him of their mother. One evening as Karl was wending his way homeward from the tanyard he picked up a copy book by the roadside. No name appeared on its cover and as there was no one near to whom it might belong he carried it home. His artistic eye admired the penmanship, and hour after hour, when he should have been in bed he sat practicing on its copies. His main ambition in life now was to write like the copies in that copy book. When he was fourteen he became dissatisfied with his home life and ran away to Canada. That night he slept in a cheap boarding house just over the Canadian line. In his dreams he saw his mother and by the sad look on her face he knew she was not pleased with him. He awoke early in the morning and lay upon his bed in thought. "If you will be a good boy and always do as I have taught you, you shall yet go to Zion." The words kept ringing in his ears. Karl had not been very careful to cover up his tracks and his brother Johann easily followed him, so when a few hours later the landlady ushered Johann into his room, he dutifully accompanied him home. Ambitious still, for an education, Karl carefully saved his earnings and all his leisure time was spent in study. He attended night classes and studied with private teachers and practiced into the early morning hours with his pen. At last he was able to attend the Bryant Stratton College in Chicago, from which he graduated with honors, having the distinction of being the best penman ever graduated from that institution. * * * * * The day had been unusually warm for so late in September, but Apollo in his golden chariot had reached the western horizon and was fast disappearing in a sea of crimson and gold. Exhausted from the excessive heat of the day, people gathered on their porches or doorsteps to enjoy the refreshing evening breeze. Salt Lake City was a social little village in the early sixties, neighboring womenfolk found time to gossip over fences or gateposts at the close of the day. Near the southeastern boundary of the city Martha Jane Allen and Eliza Purrington were enjoying a tete-a-tete over a green willow fence that separated their homes. Mrs. Purrington suddenly looked up. "Lawsy me, Marthy Jane! Who can that be?" HIS MOTHER'S PROMISE 89 "Blest if I know!" was the reply, "some more of them Gentile gold diggers agoin to Californy, I reckon." "Lawsy me, I believe they're goin to turn in here," and Eliza Purrington's hands went up to her head to straighten her sun bonnet and the brooch at her neck, before the strangers should have time to dismount and enter. The eyes of both women were turned to the street, where two dusty, travel-stained men had reined their mules under a locust tree, which threw a friendly shade over the street and sidewalk. One dismounted, handed his bridle rein to his companion, strode over to the wicket gate, opened it and walked briskly up the little walk and over to where the women were standing. Gallantly doffing his dusty hat he bade the ladies "good-evening" and enquired if the town afforded a boarding house where he and his companion could find accommodations during the few days they might wish to spend in the intermountain city. His gallantry rather confused these rural ladies but they managed to direct him to the home of Mrs. Mary White, a widow lady, who made her living by taking boarders. As the travelers rode away in the direction given, the women eyed them suspiciously. "My! Them Gentiles do have slick manners," remarked Mrs. Allen, and Mrs. Purrington replied that she would certainly keep an eye on her Nora while they remained in town. The mules were tired so the travelers rode slowly until they stood in front of the two-story adobe cottage to which they had been directed. The same young man dismounted, opened the little gate, walked up the gravel walk and knocked at the door. Mrs. White, herself, answered the knock and the young fellow introduced himself by handing her a card on which she read the name, finely pen written, Prof. Karl L. Rochell; he then handed her another card, which he explained belonged to his friend with the mules in the street. This read: Prof. Oliver Trescott. He then informed Mrs. White that they were on their way to California to open a college there, but had met with a little misfortune and would be obliged to remain in Salt Lake City a few days. If she could afford them accommodations in her home during their stay they would greatly appreciate her kindness. They had no extra luggage, because the outfit with which they had been crossing the plains had taken fire and burned while they were hunting in the hills above the city. They had nothing but the clothes they wore. Something in the boyish face of the young man touched the motherly heart of Sister White and she invited them into her home. The stay of the young men in Salt Lake City was prolonged into days, weeks and months. Both found employment there and 90 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE learned to love and trust the "Mormon" people. In place of teaching in California, both young men spent the winter of 1864 and 1865 teaching in the University of Utah. Professor Rochell was prejudiced against the "Mormon" people. In fact, he had remarked many times during his journey across the plains that he did not wish to remain in Salt Lake City over night. Sister White was a firm Latter-day Saint and no one could live in her home without feeling the influence of the religion she professed. Having received the light herself, she was anxious to remove the veil of darkness from those with whom she came in contact, who had not yet received of its brightness. So she put forth every effort to interest her boarders in the principles of the gospel. At first they resented this, but as they became better acquainted with this noble woman, they learned to love and respect her as a mother. One Sunday afternoon she insisted on their accompanying her to the Sacramental meeting. President Young delivered a powerful discourse. To Karl Rochell it was wonderful, for it was different from anything to which he had ever before listened. Strange that President Young should quote the passage of scripture which had made so great an impression on his mind when a child, reading at his mother's bedside: "Thy watchman shall lift up the voice; with the voice together shall they sing: for they shall see eye to eye, when the Lord shall bring again Zion." "Let me say a few words with regard to Zion. We profess to be Zion. If we are the pure in heart we are so, for 'Zion is the pure in heart.'" Every word of that sermon sank into the heart of Karl Rochell. He had been promised by his mother he should go to Zion, and he placed implicit confidence in her words; he was learning to trust and respect the "Mormon" people through the exemplary life of the woman in whose house he had made his home. Had he really been led to Zion? Had an unseen hand controlled the forces which had compelled him to remain in Salt Lake City? Such were the thoughts in the young man's mind as he listened to the words of the "Mormon" prophet and leader. Again the speaker opened the Bible and read a passage of scripture which was also deeply imbedded in the memory of Karl Rochell, for it had also been discussed at the bedside of his dying mother: "And it shall come to pass in the last days, that the mountain of the Lord's house shall be established in the tops of the mountains, and shall be exalted above the hills; and all nations shall flow unto it." Surely this was a commonwealth built in the tops of the HIS MOTHER'S PROMISE 91 mountains. He had traveled far, but Utah met the prophet Isaiah's description the nearest of any place he had ever seen. After the meeting he excused himself and left Sister White and his friend to walk home together, and took a long walk beyond the outskirts of the city. He wanted to be alone and ponder over the things he had heard. It was late when he returned home, but Sister White had his supper waiting. As he was leaving the table she laid a detaining hand upon his arm. "Prof. Rochell," she said, "Here is my Book of Mormon. I would like you to read it." There was the "Mormon" Bible, he took it in his hands, the old prejudice seemed to surge through his whole being. "Joseph Smith and his golden Bible! Bah!" Suddenly the sermon of the afternoon rang in his ears. "We profess to be Zion. Zion is the pure in heart." Could a people making such professions have been organized under so vile a deception? He must investigate. He would read the book. So he thanked Sister White and retired to his room. Karl Rochell found himself confronted with the greatest problem he had ever tried to solve. Had he really found the "pearl of great price" for which he had sought all his life? He took the book in his hands and bowed his knees before his Father in heaven and besought him for wisdom and understanding that if he had found the truth he might be able to recognize it, but that he should not be deceived by fraud. He then sat down to read the Book of Mormon and became so interested that he read until far into the night. During the days that followed he spent all his leisure moments perusing its pages. Before he had finished reading the book, he was convinced that it was of God and that the religion professed by the "Mormon" people was of divine origin. Bishop Roundy was somewhat surprised the following Sunday morning when the young professor approached him and applied for baptism. After a few moments consideration he informed him that it was customary to perform baptisms on Fast day and confirm members of the Church at the Fast meeting. "Young man," said Bishop Roundy, placing his hand on his shoulder in a fatherly way, "I would advise you to continue your investigations and as next Thursday is the Fast day, if you are still in the same frame of mind, we will then perform the ordinance." "Suppose I should die in my sins?" queried the enthusiastic applicant. "You are a healthy-looking young man," smilingly replied the Bishop. "I think you will live until Thursday." So Karl Rochell waited and studied and prayed, until the following Thursday morning when he was baptized in the waters 92 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE of City Creek and at the Fast meeting confirmed a member of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. That night as he lay upon his bed thanking and praising the Lord for his blessings, a light seemed to enter his room, and beside his bed, stood his mother. She spoke no word, but the smile on her countenance convinced him she was pleased with what he had done. He felt that her promise had been fulfilled, and she, though in the spirit world, had been instrumental in leading him to the land of Zion. Night Nina Eckart Kerrick When the day is done, When the night has come, Oh! Father, I am weary, As I sink to rest In my little nest, With a heart that's far from cheery. Oh! I dread each day, For the troubled way Is rough, but thou wilt guide me, Thou wilt help me through, While I strive to do The work thou hast laid beside me. Morning Now I wake at morn, And the snow adorns The earth with its wondrous beauty; And its magic art Gives me strength of heart To go on and do my duty. I am thankful then For the snow, and when It bathes the earth in brightness, May it joy renew When the world is "blue," And impart to the heart its lightness. High, High Up in the Hills By Glen Perrins There's a tiny spot in the heart of the Wasatch range, which, if viewed from just the right angle, is one of the prettiest sights one can ever look upon. "Climbing high, high up in the hills—watching the clouds roll by"—and then to look down, down—way down into the valley below where the people and automobiles look like small specks, how glorious! The particular view in mind is in Ogden canyon, right above the mouth of this stream on the south side. When one reaches the top and then glances down what a sight: The water in the waterfall bouncing over the cliffs, the foam and currents of the river weaving like patterns in lace down the canyon; the massive iron bridge spanning the stream; the trees towering to rival the cliffs on the mountain sides. What a sight! The reward of the long, difficult climb is worth while—the view below. Try, sometime, to find the exact view shown above— you'll sit for hours, gazing fascinated. Abraham Lincoln By Christie Lund To me Abraham Lincoln stands out as the most representative American in history. He stands for what America has stood for always, with his great heart and beautiful soul, and his clean purpose that lifted him from the humblest of homes to the most honorable position in our new world. His very simplicity and homeliness are his greatest endearments. His was a soul filled with love; love for his fellowmen, love for his country, love for the truth, and because he loved so much he was misunderstood and hurt, as all great men have been hurt and misunderstood, and yet to the end he preserved his gentleness, his kindliness, his faith. One of his best known sayings was: "After I am dead I would like to have it said of me by those who knew me best, that I always plucked a thistle and planted a rose where I thought a rose would grow." How beautiful, and how much it expresses the soul of the man—so greatly misunderstood and persecuted before his short-lived triumph. Ah, what a pity he did not live to know how the world bowed its head in homage or how in a body it acknowledged that he had in very deed "plucked a thistle and planted a rose." Oh, noble soul so persecuted, you must have had a peace and conviction in your own soul that told you you were right or you could not have finished so grandly. Superb man of the ages, You cleanly rose alone From an humble old log cabin, You were proud to call your home. Out of its obscurity You came to play your part And heal with gentle wisdom Your country's breaking heart. Heartsease By Mrs. Parley Nelson It was a Sabbath day in early Maytime, when spring was at its best. The fragrance of apple blooms and wild hawthorn filled the air, while the voices of many feathered songsters rang out in mingled melody. Butterflies flew lazily from tree to tree, taking here a sip and there another, of the honeyed nectar from the fragrant blossoms. Busy bees hummed noisily as they hurried to and fro. Field and orchard lay flooded in radiant sunshine, and it seemed that all nature was joining in a hymn of praise and gladness. Yet there were no indications of joy or pleasure in the face of the woman who trudged wearily homeward along the dusty lane. Her usual sprightly step was slow and heavy, while her eyes gazed steadily downward, unmindful of the beauties which abounded on every side. Though bordering on middle age, Martha Shipley still retained many of the charms of her youth. A sprinkling of gray appeared among the locks of brown, but they were still thick and glossy; and though her once slender figure was beginning to incline. Toward plumpness, it was well formed, and full of symmetry and grace. Her voice was soft and musical, and her large, expressive eyes reflected the inward beauty of a kind and loving nature. Wiping the dust from her perspiring face, she raised her head with a sigh of weariness. "Dear me! It is so much warmer than I expected," she said to herself, half aloud. "I do wish I had let David come for me with the car as he offered to do; but it is such a glorious morning, and I felt sure I would enjoy the walk. Strange how a few ill-timed words can arouse a whole army of unpleasant thoughts and bitter longings, had cast a dark shadow over an otherwise perfect day." As she drew near the Shipley homestead with its comfortable farm-house, its well-kept lawns, and flowering trees, her countenance brightened visibly. Entering the gate, she sought the seclusion of a rustic bench beneath a spreading lilac bush, and while she rested, she let her gaze wander over the broad acres of fertile farm land, and back again to the cozy homestead which had sheltered herself and her husband ever since their wedding day. "No woman ever had a dearer home or a kinder husband than I have," she mused with a tender light in her eyes. "I suppose that I have more than a fair share of blessings; and yet, the boon my heart craves most I have been denied. No doubt the Lora knows what is best for me, and usually I try to feel resigned 96 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE to my lot, but there are times when my whole soul seems smothered in envy and resentment. However, I must try to hide my heartache, for I don't want David to know I am grieving again.' And having thus made confession to her own soul, she arose and went quietly into the house. She found her husband reclining comfortably in an easy chair, surrounded by sections of the Sunday paper. He looked up with a smile and spoke a cheery word of greeting as she entered. Then he saw something in his wife's dark eyes which brought him at once to her side. "Why, Martha, dear, what is the matter?" he questioned, putting his arms about her and leading her to his own easy chair. "I am afraid you are ill. I should have known better than to let you walk such a distance in the dust and heat. Rest here a moment while I bring you something cool to drink. Then you had better lie down." When David returned. He found his wife sobbing bitterly. His tender, kindly words had opened the flood-gates of her soul, and the tears would not be stayed. Taking her in his arms, he. Tried to soothe and comfort her. ''What is it, dearest?' he enquired anxiously. '"You must tell me what has happened to upset you so." Controlling herself with a strong effort, she smiled at David through her tears. 'Don't be alarmed, David," she said gently. “I assure you nothing serious has happened—in fact, nothing at all except my own stper-sensitive nature getting wounded again. I am ashamed of myself for making "much ado about nothing" Let us forget it, and I will get your dinner for you now. I expect my boy is nearly starved." But David insisted that she make a clean breast of her troubles. "Well, to-day as you know is mother's day—a day which somehow holds a peculiar fascination for me. As I knew that special excercises were to be held in the ward chapel, I resolved to go. The program was beautiful and inspiring. The tributes paid to Motherhood were glorious and sincere. I lived again in memory, the few brief years of companionship with my own dear mother; and my heart 'rejoiced that I had never willfully caused her disappointment or sorrow. At the close of the services, a number of little, white-clad fairies marched down the aisle of the chapel and presented a carnation to each woman in the group where I was sitting. A dainty little lady thrust a flower into my hand, for which I thanked her with a word and a smile. "Observing this, Alice Denby, who was sitting just behind me, leaned over and remarked in a distinctly audible whisper. 'That carnation wasn't meant for you, Martha. Only Mothers are given flowers today.' That was all, David, but these words and HEARTSEASE 97 the way she said them went to my heart like a keen-edged sword. You see, I had unintentionally seated myself among the mothers, who were the honored guests of the occasion." "Yes, I see," said David grimly, "Alice Denby saw a chance to give you a thrust in a tender spot, and couldn't resist the temptation to do so. And how did you answer her, Martha?" "I did a very foolish thing, I suppose, David. I arose quietly, thrust the carnation in Alice's hand and said, 'I don't want anything that isn't mine by right, Alice.' Then I hurriedly left the church. "No one knows but you, David, with what intensity my heart has yearned for children. To me, the dearest thing in all the world is a little child. IF have never envied other women their beauty, their talents, their worldly possessions—no, nor their life's companions either, David—" and she gave him a tender smile—"'but whenever I see a mother with a babe at her breast, my heart cries out for such a treasure, and I always wonder if that woman appreciates fully the blessedness of her lot. Take Alice Denby for instance. I happen to know that her children have not all been wanted, I happen to know that she is falling far short of what a real mother ought to be to growing boys and girls. And yet, the world bows down in homage to her and many like her. Well, let it. I do not object, but why sneer at women like me, whose hearts are aching with mother love and longing that can never be appeased. David, why is it that Life has with held from us its sweetest experience? Though I do manage as a rule to keep my discontent beneath the surface, there are times when I really cannot 'Grin and bear it.' Things like this today hurt me, David, and I cannot forget them." "I wouldn't let anything Alice Denby said hurt me, Martha. Why you are worth a whole pasture full of women like her. She has a house, but not a home. Her children spend most of their time on the streets, and her husband dreads to enter the door. I know it is a hard trial for you, honey, but we must try to remember that 'Every life must have its burden, Every heart, its load.” I don't suppose there is an individual in the whole world without some unfulfilled desire. You believe that, don't you dear?" "Yes, David, I suppose you are right as you always are. You are such a comfort, dearest, and at least in the matter of a husband, my heart is completely satisfied. That evening as David and. Martha sat in the shadow of their vine-covered porch enjoying the golden sunset, they were surprised to see two children approaching. One was a lanky lad of perhaps eleven summers, his companion a little girl of about nine years in whose chubby hand was clasped a bunch of purple 98 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE pansy blossoms. Midway between the gate and the house, they paused in seeming consultation. "Are you sure this is the right place Jennie?" inquired the lad anxiously. "I'm afraid to go in here." "O yes, this is the right place, for I watched her all the way, and I'm sure there is nothing to be afraid of. She has the kindest and most beautiful eyes, O brother, she looks so much like our own dear mother, that I just wanted to cry when I looked at her. You should have seen her face this morning when that other woman took her flower away. She did feel so bad. I'm going to give her these flowers even if I have to go in alone." "Well, come on then, but you needn't be surprised if you get turned down flat, for most women don't like strange kids as I happen to know." The Shipleys had been unobserved listeners to the foregoing dialogue. They exchanged wondering glances, and as the visitors drew nearer, Martha rose and went to meet them. Extending a hand to each she said cordially, "How do you do, my dears. Although I don't know your names, I am very glad to have you call. Come in and rest on the porch. Mr. Shipley and I have just been admiring the beautiful sunset." In a few moment's Martha's womanly tact and motherly sympathy had completely banished the children's shy embarrassment and they were soon quietly explaining their errand. Martha learned that their names were Jack and Jennie Moreland, that their parents were both dead, and that they lived with their aged grandparents in a cottage on an adjoining farm, also that there was a baby sister whose name was Hope. Jennie explained that it was she who had presented the carnations during the Mother's Day program, and had observed and resented the other woman's interference. Instinctively she had determined to follow at a distance and learn where the pretty lady lived to give her a flower of her own. Unable to procure a carnation, she had gathered a bunch of purple pansies which she timidly presented and asked the kind lady to please take them with her love. Never in her whole life had Martha Shipley been so deeply touched. Putting an arm around each child, she drew them to her and kissed them with a great overwhelming tenderness. "You blessed darlings!" she cried, "Why I never was so happy in all my life, and these lovely flowers! I shall keep them always as mementoes of your loving thoughtfulness. Heartsease is the oldfashioned name for them, and heaven only knows how much they deserve that name today. David, aren't they just wonderful? The flowers and the children too, I mean," and Martha raised her HEARTSEASE 99 eyes to her husband's face just in time to see him wipe away a tear. That night when they were about to retire, Martha said to her husband, "Do you know what I would like to do, David?" "Perhaps I can guess, my dear; but were you thinking of adopting the grandparents too?" "O David, you darling! Would you let me do that too? I should love it, of all things, if they are willing." "Well, inasmuch as their little home is mortgaged and about to be foreclosed, I shouldn't wonder if they would consent to be adopted by you. The old gentleman is an expert gardener. I will take him into partnership, and the grandmother will be a splendid companion and great help to you. I am sure we can make them comfortable and happy, but what in the world will you do with three children?" "Just you wait and see, my dear. And I have just been thinking, David, that perhaps God left us childless that our hearts might reach out to these forsaken little ones in their time of need. I feel sure that at last I am going to learn the meaning of true happiness." Leadership Week at the Brigham Young University Leadership Week at the Brigham Young University was well attended by Relief Society workers from many stakes. The addresses by Mrs. Electa Smoot Dixon, Mrs. Jennie B. Knight and Miss Genevieve Thornton were very much appreciated by all who came to listen. The auditors appreciated the fact that the suggestions made were of a practical nature, designed to help them solve the social problems that they are meeting day by day in their Relief Society work. Notes from the Field Amy Brown Lyman Northwestern States Mission. Excellent Relief Society conferences were held in the mission during October. In the Portland branch the four societies, namely, Arleta, North Portland, Portland Central, and St. Johns, combined and held their conference in the Portland chapel. The hall was beautifully decorated with many varieties of dahlias—evidences of the value of the work suggested through the visiting teachers' topic. The solo, lessons and talks were all given by members of the organization. A Relief Society chorus was trained by the branch chorister, and was very much enjoyed. Relief Society officers greeted the people as they entered the building and also acted as ushers. At the close of the services the flowers were sent to homes of the sick. Allendale, Montana, has a membership of 14 women, who planned recently to entertain the neighboring towns of Hall and Drummond. A very fine program was rendered which included a talk on the Book of Mormon by one of the members. There were 65 present, 10 of whom were Catholic women and about 40 Methodist women, and also a Methodist minister. Luncheon was served after the program. As a result of the meeting twelve Books of Mormon were sold. The visitors expressed themselves as being happy and were pleased to learn, through members of the Church, of the Book of Mormon and the beliefs of the Latterday Saints. North Sevier Stake. This stake gave to each of its wards a subscription to the Relief Society Magazine for 1928, as a reward of merit for the excellent work done by them in the Civic Pride Campaign. St. Johns Stake. Mrs. Ethel F. Whiting, lst counselor in the Relief Society stake presidency, was elected to the School Board of her district on October 29, 1927. Minidoka Stake, (Outline for Work and Business Meetings.) 1:50 p. M. Prayer meeting; 2:00 p. M. Announcements, singing, roll call (answer roll call by number of chapters of scripture read); 2:15 p.m. Work group under direction of work committee, all work previously planned; 2:15 p.m. Teachers march to an adjoining room where the teachers' topic is given by the supervisor, as they leave they place reports on the desk in charge of NOTES FROM THE FIELD 101 ward president and secretary; 2:30 p.m. Teachers join work group; 3:30 p.m. Refreshments, (optional), benediction. IN MEMORIAM Grant Stake. Mrs. May McAllister Silver, beloved president of the Grant stake Relief Society, departed this life very suddenly on October 6, 1927. The sudden passing of Mrs. Silver was indeed a shock to those who knew and loved her. She had endeared herself to many, but particularly to Grant stake, where her loss will be keenly felt. Born and reared in Utah's Dixie, Mrs. Silver early partook of the influence of spirituality and sweet simplicity so typical of that environment. She had the inherent dignity and executive ability of her splendid father, John D. T. McAllister, and the sweet, patient, enduring qualities of her mother, Matilda C. Nielson McAllister. When, in 1877, Brigham Young called John D. T. McAllister to assume the presidency of the St. George temple, President McAllister took with him his wife Matilda, and like other noble women of that time, she endured, without a murmur, the hardships incident to the settlement of that country. The little house still stands across the street from the temple, where they lived. Mrs. Silver, then May McAllister, was married to Hyrum A. Silver, when but a girl of 18, and became a devoted mother to his 5 motherless children. Eight children were born to her, and for many years the major portion of her time was devoted to these children. She always found time, however, to give service to her Church. Mrs. Silver was first a Relief Society stake aid, and afterwards stake treasurer. Her horse and buggy were always at the disposal of the board when she drove around from ward to ward in the old limits of Granite stake. Later her automobile replaced the horse and buggy. When Granite stake was re-organized in 1912, she continued in the capacity of stake treasurer until 1921, when she became second counselor in the stake. When the Grant stake was organized in 1924, Mrs. Silver was chosen president, and served in that capacity up to the time of her death. She was a progressive, forward-looking leader, and a diligent and faithful Relief Society worker, and a devoted Latter-day Saint. Mrs. Silver is mourned by her entire community. Her sweet congeniality and deep sympathy, particularly for those in distress, were an inspiration to all who knew her. She went about as an angel of mercy, giving freely of her time, her means, and her energy for those in need. As an executive and presiding officer Mrs. Silver was dignified and powerful, and conducted her work with ability and dispatch. The Grant stake stands out as a stake where spirituality is employed and where progress is the watchword. 102 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE The Grant stake was reorganized on November 12, 1927, with the following officers: president, Mrs. Winnifred B. Daynes; counselors, Mrs. Amy E. Neff and Mrs. Marie H. Tanner; secretary-treasurer, Mrs. Sarah T. South. Weber Stake. The Weber stake was called upon recently to part with its greatly beloved and honored president Mrs. Aggie H. Stevens, who passed to the great beyond, November 20, 1927. Mrs. Stevens was a woman of education, refinement, and personal charm. She possessed great capabilities and talents. She was an excellent and impressive public speaker, and an earnest, untiring worker. In 1920 when the General Board asked each stake to send a delegate to the Brigham Young University to take an extension course in social service to cover a period of 6 weeks, Mrs. Stevens herself entered the class and passed the final examinations with an "A" grade. She was a natural leader and a progressive leader, and her stake was always found to be forward-looking and in excellent condition. For her ability and power for good, for her fine example as a mother and true Latter-day Saint, and for her kindness, gentleness, sympathy and service, she was loved and is mourned by all who knew her. On December 18, 1927, the Weber stake was reorganized with the following officers: president, Mrs. Marianne Browning; counselors, Mrs. Ellen H. Tanner and Mrs. Charlotte Jacobs; secretary-treasurer, Mrs. Dora B. Peterson. REORGANIZATIONS Idaho Stake. The Idaho stake Relief Society was reorganized October 29, 1927, Mrs. Delia Lechtenberg and her co-workers were honorably released with appreciation for the service they have rendered the organization, and the following new officers were sustained: president, Mrs. Alta Childs; counselors, Mrs. Louise Horsley and Mrs. Ann Rigby; secretary-treasurer, Mrs. Jane Banks; assistant secretary-treasurer, Mrs. Sarah M. Banks, CONVENTIONS AND CONFERENCES General Board members visited Relief Society stake conventions and conferences, which were held in the stakes, during 1927, as follows: Alberta—Miss Alice L. Reynolds. Alpine—Mrs. Rosannah C. Irvine, Mrs. Elise B, Alder. Bannock—Mrs. Amy 'W. Evans. Beaver—Mrs. Julia A. F, Lund. Benson—Mrs. Rosannah C. Irvine. Big Horn—Miss Alice L. Reynolds. Blackfoot—Mrs. Elise B. Alder. Bear Lake—Mrs. Louise Y. Robison. Bear River—Mrs. Barbara H. Richards. Blaine—Mrs. Julia A. F. Lund. Boise—Mrs. Amy W. Evans. Box Elder—Mrs. Emma A, Empey, Mrs. Elise B. Alder. Burley—Mrs. Jennie B. Knight. NOTES FROM THE FIELD Cache—Mrs. Cora L. Bennion, Mrs. Nettie D. Bradford. Carbon—Mrs. Elise B. Alder. Cassia—Mrs. Annie Wells Cannon. Cottonwood—Mrs. Ethel R. Smith, Mrs. Ida P. Beal. Curlew—Mrs. Julia A. F. Lund. Deseret—Mrs. Amy W. Evans. Duchesne—Mrs. Nettie D. Bradford. East Jordan—-Mrs. Lotta P. Baxter, Mrs. Ethel R. Smith. Iemery—Mrs. Julia A, F, Lund. Ensign—Mrs. Emma A. Empey, Mrs. Nettie D. Bradford. Franklin—Mrs. Lotta P. Baxter. Fremont—Mrs. Louise Y. Robison. Garfield—Mrs. Elise B. Alder. Granite—Mrs. Lotta P. Baxter, Mrs. Ida P. Beal. Grant—Mrs. Lotta P. Baxter, Mrs. Rosannah C, Irvine. Gunnison—Mrs. Ida P. Beal. Hollywood—Mrs. Julia A. Child. Hyrum—Mrs. Jennie B. Knight. Idaho—Mrs. Nettie D. Bradford. Idaho Falls—Mrs. Annie Wells Cannon. Juab—Mrs. Ida P. Beal. Juarez—Mrs. Annie Wells Cannon. Kanab—Mrs. Inez K. Allen. Kolob—Miss Alice L. Reynolds, Mrs. Inez K. Allen. Lethbridge—Miss Alice L. Reynolds. Liberty—Mrs. Emma A. Empey, Mrs. Julia A. Child. Logan—Mrs. Lotta P. Baxter, Mrs. Amy W. Evans. Los Angeles—Mrs. Julia A. Child. Lost River—Mrs. Amy W. Evans. Lyman—Mrs. Nettie D. Bradford. Malad—Mrs. Jennie B. Knight. Maricopa—Mrs. Louise Y. Robison. Millard—Mrs. Cora L. Bennion. Minidoka—Mrs. Jennie B. Knight. Moapa—Miss Alice L. Reynolds. Montpelier—Miss Sarah M. McLelland. Morgan—Miss Sarah M. McLelland. Mt. Ogden—Miss Sarah M. McLelland, Mrs. Nettie D. Bradford. Nebo—Mrs. Jennie B. Knight, Mrs. Julia A. F. Lund. Nevada—Mrs. Jennie B. Knight. No. Davis—Mrs. Julia A. Child, Mrs. Ethel R. Smith. No. Sanpete—Miss Sarah M. McLelland. No. Sevier—Mrs. Nettie D, Brad- 103 ford. No. Weber—Mrs. Lotta P. Baxter, Mrs. Amy W. Evans. Ogden—Mrs. Annie Wells Cannon, Mrs. Cora L. Bennion. Oneida—Miss Sarah M. McLelland. Oquirrh—Mrs. Emma A. Empey, Mrs. Nettie D. Bradford. Palmyra—Miss Alice L. Reynolds, Mrs. Inez K. Allen. Panguitch—Mrs. Annie Wells Cannon. Parowan—Mrs. Cora L. Bennion. Pioneer—Mrs. Jennie B. Knight, Mrs. Lotta P. Baxter. Pocatello—Mrs. Rosannah C. Irvine Portneuf—Mrs. Elise B. Alder. Raft River—Mrs. Nettie D. Bradford. Rigby—Mrs. Nettie D. Bradford. Roosevelt—Mrs. Louise Y. Robison. St. George—Mrs. Annie Wells Cannon. St. Johns—Mrs. Amy B. Lyman. St. Joseph—Miss Sarah M. McLelland. Salt Lake—Mrs. Amy W. Evans, Mrs. Elise B. Alder. San Francisco— Mrs. Inez K. Allen. San Juan—Mrs. Inez K. Allen. San Luis—Mrs. Inez K. Allen. Sevier—Mrs. Ida P. Beal. Shelley—Mrs. Louise Y. Robison. Snowflake—Mrs. Annie Wells Cannon. So. Davis—Mrs. Emma A. Empey, Mrs. Elise B. Alder. So. Sanpete—Mrs. Jennie B. Knight. So. Sevier—Mrs. Ida P. Beal. Star Valley—Mrs. Elise B. Alder. Summ: t—Mrs. Ida P. Beal. Taylor—Miss Alice L. Reynolds. Teton—Mrs. Annie Wells Cannon. Tintic—Mrs. Elise B. Alder. Tooele—Mrs. Emma A. Empey, Mrs. Elise B. Alder. Twin Falls—Mrs. Jennie B; Knight. Uintah—Mrs. Ccra L. Bennion. Union—Mrs. Amy W. Evans. Utah—Mrs. Jennie B. Knight, Mrs. Ethel R. Smith. Wasatch-—Mrs. Inez K. Allen. Wayne— Mrs. Jennie B. Knight. - Weber—Mrs. Ethel R. Smith, Mrs. Rosannah C. Irvine. West Jordan—Mrs. Julia A. Child, Mrs. Amy W. Evans. Woodruff—Mrs. Ida P. Beal. Yellowstone—Mrs. Julia A. F. Lund. Young—Mrs. Inez K. Allen. Guide Lessons for April LESSON I Theology and Testimony (First Week in April) THE DISPENSATION OF THE FULNESS OF TIMES More Modern Miracles A miracle is an event which cannot be brought about by man or by mortal means. It is an occurrence in which the super-mortal takes part. The "'opening event," or first vision work, was a miracle in which two super-mortal and one mortal being took part. The discovery and securing possession of the plates from which the Book of Mormon was translated was a miracle in which one mortal and one super-mortal being operated. Neither of these events could have started without divine sanction, divine agency, and divine power, and any one of them would have been stopped short of completion by the withdrawal of divine support. Gifts from God through the forces of earth, nature, or through the laws of sociological evolution or mechanical inventions, are not miracles in a theological sense. "Mormonism" so called, as a religion, is a miracle, not an ecclesiastical evolution, but a revelation, a direct gift from God, the gospel restored by its author. The first great miracle was of short duration. The second was first an all-night event, with but momentary interests, then parts of a day, and then four periods with intervals of a year between. And now we come to the consideration of a miracle that extended into months of activity in which at least two supermortal and several mortal agents took part. The Translation of the Plates. The Translator: Joseph Smith, the Seer. 1. The fact that he was chosen for the work marked him as one of the "noble spirits'—his standing among men marked him as a leader—and though his philosophy was a revelation rather than the result of meditation, his acceptance of the great truths, and his ability to apply them, give proof of his high grade mentality. 2. He was honest. A religious imposter might receive a revelation of rebuke, but he would hardly publish it to the world. As Joseph Smith did. (See Doc. And Cov. Section 3.) GUIDE LESSONS FOR APRIL 105 3. He was inspired. When inspiration ceased the translation stopped. That Joseph was more than man during the work of the translation is evident. His power to translate was supplemental to the man, it was a gift from God, just as the instruments of translation were a loan from the angel who was the permanent custodian of them and the plates. (See Doc. And Cov 3:11-14; 10:1, 2, 3.) The Instrument of Translation The Urim and Thummm. "A curious instrument which the ancients called Urim and Thummim which consisted of two trans-, parent stones set in the rim of a bow, fastened to a breast plate." Joseph Smith in a letter (see History of the Church, vol. 1, p. 335.) The words "Urim and Thummim" are said to mean light and perfection. The home of God is a Urim and Thummim, the earth will become a Urim and Thummim, and one of the blessings of the celestial glory is an individual Urim and Thummim. (See Doc. And Cov. 130:7-11.) The Urim and Thummim was evidently in use before the Abrahamic dispensation, as the Brother of Jared had one given to him. (Ether 3:22.) This instrument of interpretation was used by the Nephites (see Ether 4:5.) But the instrument used by Joseph the Seer was the one used by the Brother of Jared in fulfilment of a prophecy recorded in Ether 3:24. The Urim and Thummim was an instrument by which the mind and the will of the Lord was sought in ancient Israel. (See I Samuel 28: 3-7.) The interpreter used by Joseph was returned to Moroni. (See History of the Church, vol. 1, p. 18.) The translation was begun by the Seer alone, then Martin Harris became scribe for the Prophet and wrote one hundred and sixteen pages of manuscript, which, in the opinion of Elder Sjodahl, would equal not more than fifty printed pages, or the untranslated contents of four of the plates. These one hundred and sixteen pages of manuscript fell into the hands of enemies, and because of this error the angel Moroni took the plates and the instrument of interpretation into his own custody for a brief period and then restored them to Joseph. (See History of the Church, vol. 1, pages 21-23.) This ended the first period of the work of translation. The second period begins with Joseph fully reinstated before the Lord and with a new scribe, Oliver Cowdery, and new instructions concerning what to translate. Instead of retranslating that part of the abridgment made by Mormon, contained in the lost manuscript, he made a translation direct from the plates of Nephi which Mormon had abridged. This direct translation covered the history of the Nephites from 106 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE the time they left Jerusalem up until the time of King Benjamin, and so we have in the Book of Mormon a more detailed history of that period than we should have had, if the manuscript had not been lost. Instead of the 45 or 50 pages of matter contained in the lost manuscript of 116 pages, we have 132 pages of printed matter. The translation with Oliver Cowdery as scribe began April 7, 1829, and was completed July 1, 1829—eighty-five days— a miracle of months, a work that could not have been done by human agency alone. (Church History, vol. 1, page 32; Introduction to the Study of the Book of Mormon, by J. M. Sjodahl, page 24.) There have been fifteen translations of the Book of Mormon that were not miracles and yet each contributed to the making of the Book fill its prophetic destiny as a message to all "nations, kindred, tongues and peoples." These translations or versions are the Danish, French, Italian, German, Welsh, Hawaiian, Swedish, Spanish, Maori, Dutch, Samoan, Tahitian, Turkish, Japanese, Hebrew. Questions and Problems What is the one outstanding characteristic of a miracle? Why is the radio not a miracle theologically? Wherein was the first vision a miracle?. Over how much time did the miracle of translation of the plates extend? 5. Discuss the proposition: The acceptance and application of revealed truth is a mark of high intelligence. 6. What instance in the translation gives proof of the honesty and courage of Joseph Smith? 7. What books in the Book of Mormon are not a translation of the Book of Mormon plates or the plates containing Mormon's abridgement? 8. How many pages longer is the Book of Mormon than it would have been if the Harris manuscript had not been lost? 9. How many days were occupied in the divinely directed translation?,; 10. Why cannot the translation of the Book of Mormon into other languages be called miracles? 11. Name the languages into which the Book of Mormon has been translated. 12. Where did Abraham get the Urim and Thummim, and what did he see through the instrument. (Pearl of Great Price, Book of Abraham, chapter 3.) il) ie GUIDE LESSONS FOR APRIL 107 LESSON II Word and Business (Second Week in April) TEACHERS' TOPIC FOR APRIL—HOME Cooperation in the Home in Work Habits "Successful cooperation bespeaks a high grade of social order, inasmuch as each of the cooperators must unfold specific activities within precise limits, and the results therefrom are enjoyed or shared according to some recognized principle."—Ross. I. Home should be a well regulated institution. A. Definite schedule (within reason) should be made and followed. IT. Children's part in household tasks. A. Each member in family should be given work responsibilities according to his capacity. 1. Growing children should not be overburdened. 2. Small children should not be given too great responsibilities such as: Leaving smaller ones in their care while parents are absent, endangering the children's lives by fire, accidents, etc. B. Over-indulgence on part of parent in withholding household tasks detrimental to growth and development. C. Efficiency in accomplishing tasks should be required. III. Parents should observe special traits and capabilities of children, with a view to training for a vocation or profession. 108 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE LESSON III Literature (Third Week in April) Robert Louts Stevenson In this age, which has been characterized time and again as the child's age, it would seem unpardonable to present a course in modern poetry without devoting at least one lesson to poetry for children. Today the reputation of some of our modern writers depends largely on their output of children's verse. Even Louis Untermeyer has turned into that field, while the verse for children written by Christina Rosetti is pretty generally known. In this lesson we shall present the child's poetry of Robert Louis Stevenson. When we think of the long struggle with ill health, which Robert Louis Stevenson had during his productive period, we are reminded of another great Scotch writer, Sir Walter Scott, the difference being that Robert Louis Stevenson's ill health covered a much longer period than that of Sir Walter Scott. When we think of his burial we call to mind the American writer, Joaquin Miller, whose ashes were also placed on a promontory overlooking the Pacific Ocean, the difference in this case being that Robert Louis Stevenson was buried on one side of the Pacific and Joaquin Miller on the other. Robert Louis Stevenson was born in the cultural center of Scotland, Edinburgh, at Number 8 Howard Place, on the 13th of November, 1850. It was our pleasure while visiting Edinburgh to mark the spot in a tour of the city. He was the son of Thomas Stevenson and Margaret Isabella Balfour. Even as an infant he was very fragile. In 1858, he barely escaped death by gastric fever. He went to school mainly from 1858 to 1867. His ill health prevented very steady application. His mother once said that "his teachers liked talking to him much better than teaching him." He often went on trips with his father, who was an engineer. It appears to have been the desire of the family that Robert Louis, too, should be an engineer, but fate seemed to have decreed otherwise, for at the age of six this boy showed a disposition to write. He did enjoy the outdoor business of the engineer's life but the strain on his physical endurance was altogether too much, so that in 1871 he reluctantly changed to law. He was called to the bar in 1875. Two years earlier he first met Mr. Sidney Colvin who proved to be a close friend throughout his life. He traveled in ~ Europe and then went back to Scotland where he was doing a good deal of writing in the year 1881. Among the books of this period was Treasure Island which Mr. Untermeyer has called ''that GUIDE LESSONS FOR APRIL 109 eternal classic of youth. In 1882 appeared Familiar Studies of Men and Books, and New Arabian Knights. In January, 1884, his ambitious plans for intense and continuous writing were interfered with by the most serious illness from which he had yet suffered. Again he neared death. As a result the attack was followed "by long prostration and incapacity for work and by continued relapses." In August, 1887, his home was at Bournemouth. In 1885 he published, after long indecision, The Body Snatchers and the romance, Prince Otto, and A Child's Garden of Verses. Early in 1886 he presented the English public with the somewhat freakish story of Dr. Jekyll and Mr. Hyde. This novel, in connection with Treasure Island, proved exceedingly popular. The same year he wrote Kidnapped, at Bournemouth, an English watering place. His poor health continued. The last four years of his life were spent at Samoa. He made his abode at Vailinia "where he. Took a small barrack of a wooden box 500 feet above the sea and began to build himself a large house close by. The natives gave him the name of Tusitala. His character developed unanticipated strength on the practical side. He became a vigorous employer of labor, an active planter, above all a powerful and benignant island chieftain. He gathered by degrees around him a kind of feudal clan of servants and retainers and he plunged with more generous ardor than coolness of judgment into the troubled politics of the country. "Through 1894, he was engaged in composing two romances, neither of which were finished at his death. He was dictating Weir Hermiston on the very day that he died, which was the 3rd of December, 1894. He was talking in a cheerful manner on the veranda of his house at Vailinia when he had a stroke of apoplexy from which he never recovered, death occurring that evening. Next day sixty Samoans of athletic build, who acknowledged Stevenson as their chief, carried him to the peak Vaea, where he had wished to be buried and where they consigned him to rest in hearing of the roar of the great Pacific Ocean." Many people in this country have listened to David Starr Jordan tell of the days when he knew Stevenson on the Samoan Islands. His report is the usual one that Stevenson was a mar of very exceptional charm. "That he was the most attractive figure of the men of letters of his generation is admitted, and the acknowledged fascination of his character was deepened and was extended over an extremely wide circle of readers by the publication, in 1899, of His Letters which has subdued even those who were rebellious of the entertainment of his books. It is, therefore, from the point of view of his 'charm' that the genius of Stevenson must be approached. In this respect there was between himself and his books, his manner and his style, his practice and his theory a very unusual harmony. Very few authors of so high a class have 110 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE been so sustained, or have made their conduct so close a reflection of their philosophy. This unity of the man and his work makes it difficult, for one who knew him, to be sure that one greatly gauges the purely literary significance of the latter. There are some living who still hear in every page of Stevenson's the voice of the man himself, and see in every turn of his language his flashing smile." We are interested particularly in this lesson in A Child's Garden of Verse. It is, says Louis Untermeyer, "Second only to Mother Goose's own collection in its lyrical simplicity and universal appeal." The poem "My Shadow" is characteristic. One can see how completely Stevenson has entered into the child-life thinking of things about him as a child might, and betraying that sympathy with all natural objects that the child often portrays: MY SHADOW I have a little shadow that goes in and out with me, And what can be the use of him is more than I can see. He is very, very like me from the heels up to the head; And I see him jump before me, when I jump into my bed. The funniest thing about him is the way he likes to grow— Not at all like proper children, which is always very slow; For he sometimes shoots up taller, like an India-rubber ball, And he sometimes gets so little that there's none of him at all. He hasn't got a notion of how children ought to play, And can only make a fool of me in every sort of way. He stands so close beside me, he's a coward you can see; I'd think shame to stick to nursie as that shadow sticks to me. One morning, very early, before the sun was up, I rose and found the shining dew on every buttercup; But my lazy little shadow, like an arrant sleepy-head, Had stayed at home behind me and was fast asleep in bed. Everybody knows that children love animals. As an example of Robert Louis Stevenson's recognition of this fact we include "The Cow": THE COW The friendly cow, all red and white, I love with all my heart: She gives me cream with all her might, To eat with apple-tart. GUIDE LESSONS FOR APRIL 111 She wanders lowing here and there, And yet she cannot stray, All in the pleasant open air, The pleasant light of day. And blown by all the winds that pass, And wet with all the showers, She walks among the meadow grass And eats the meadow flowers. "Good and Bad Children," has both the modern and the ancient ring. It is modern in that it touches good health habits and has something to say about diet. It is of the past because it emphasizes particularly the value of good morals and the sorrow that comes to those whose morals are bad: GOOD AND BAD CHILDREN Children, you are very little, And your bones are very brittle; If you would grow great and stately, You must try to walk sedately. You must still be bright and quiet, And content with simple diet; And remain, through all bewildering, Innocent and honest children. Happy hearts and happy faces, Happy play in grassy places— That was how, in ancient ages, Children grew to kings and sages. But the unkind and the unruly, And the sort who eat unduly, They must never hope for glory— Theirs is quite a different story. Cruel children, crying babies, All grow up as geese and gabies, Hated, as their age increases, By their nephews and their nieces. The poem called "Foreign Children" has a point of view that has been nursed very carefully by European and American children for many ages. It will be interesting, as time goes on, to find a poem that is a little broader and little more sympathetic in its outlook. However, this has an interesting point of view: 112 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE FOREIGN CHILDREN Little Indian, Sioux or Crow, Little frosty Eskimo, Little Turk or Japanese, O! Don't you wish that you were me! You have seen the scarlet trees And the lions over seas; You have eaten ostrich eggs, And turned the turtles off their legs. Such a life is very fine, But it's not so nice as mine: You must often, as you trod, Have wearied not to be abroad. You have curious things to eat, I am fed on proper meat; You must dwell beyond the foam, But I am safe and live at home. Little Indian, Sioux or Crow, Little frosty Eskimo, Little Turk or Japanese, O! Don't you wish that you were me? The little couplet called "Happy Thought" is worth including at this point: HAPPY THOUGHT The world is so full of a number of things, I'm sure we should all be as happy as kings. We are including as the last poem of Robert Louis Stevenson the noted Requiem that is found on his headstone. REQUIEM Under the wide and starry sky, Dig the grave and let me lie. Glad did I live and gladly die, And I laid me down with a will. This be the verse you grave for me: Here he lies where he longed to be; Home is the sailor, home from the sea, And the hunter home from the hill. GUIDE LESSONS FOR APRIL 113 Questions and Problems 1. Do you know of children who have been particularly interested in their shadows? Try to call to mind some things they have said about them. 2. What good health rules do you discover in "Good and Bad Children?" 3. Name some of the things that should make children happy as kings. 4. This is a time when personality is very generally discussed. What are your conclusions in relation to the personality of Robert Louis Stevenson. 5. How many members of the class have read Treasure Island? What is there about it that makes it so fascinating to your readers? 6. Name as many outstanding Scotch writers as you can call to mind. 7. Do you agree with Louis Untermeyer that Stevenson makes an approach to "Mother Goose," in his children's verses? 8. Call to mind other writers whose contribution is intended primarily for children. LESSON IV Social Service (Fourth Week in April) THE CHILD—STUDY COURSE LESSON 4 THE DEVELOPMENT OF THE INTELLECT IN CHILDHOOD AND YOUTH Based on chapter 4 of The Child: His Nature and His Needs. In Part One of our text we are considering the different phases of the child's growing personality—his instincts, his active nature, his intellect, his moral and social traits, and his mastery of the arts of expression. The last lesson, it will be recalled, had to do with the child's active nature and needs, the main point being that, since the normal child is active, the chief job of the parent is to wisely guide this activity. We shall now consider the growth of the child's intellect. To help us here we have Chapter IV written by Dr. Walter F. Dearborn, professor of Education at Harvard University; a very reliable authority. 114 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE A.—WHAT IS INTELLIGENCE? Intelligence is difficult to define because it can never be detached from a lot of other personality traits which are closely related and which overlap it. The following, however, are samples of the definitions of intelligence attempted by a number of leading psychologists: 1. "The ability to learn." (Pintner.) 2. "General intelligence is the ability of the organism to adjust itself adequately to new situations." (Stern.) 3. "Intellect in general is the power of good responses from the point of view of truth or fact." (Thorndike.) It is interesting in this connection to note the very remarkable reference to intelligence made by the Prophet Joseph Smith: 1. "The glory of God is intelligence ---- 2. "Intelligence, or the light of truth, was not created or made, neither indeed can be." Questions 1. Can intelligence be acquired, or is it part of the child's equipment at birth? 2. What has the brain to do with intelligence? 3. What is the difference between intelligence and knowledge? 4. Where and under what circumstances did the Prophet Joseph make the above statements with respect to intelligence? B.—HOW CAN WE TELL HOW INTELLIGENT A CHILD IS? (Pages 73-79) If one were asked to roughly estimate, without the aid of a test, the intelligence of a child, one would undoubtedly interview the child, cross-examine him, and observe his reactions generally. This common-sense method of appraising a child's intellect was used by the teachers in Paris when Alfred Binet started to experiment with intelligence tests. The intelligence test which Messrs. Binet and Simon devised is nothing more nor less than a refinement of this common-sense procedure. The chief difference being that the questions, instead of being asked at random, are standardized for the different ages. When these questions were made uniform it then became possible to compare the answers and responses of one child with those of other children. This is the genius of the intelligence test. The term "Mental Age" is used to indicate concretely the child's general level of intelligence. Thus, if Alice, 10 years of age, displays intelligence like that of the average eight-year-old GUIDE LESSONS FOR APRIL 115 child, we say that Alice has a mental age of 8 years. The I. Q. or "Intelligence Quotient" represents merely the relationship of the child's mental age (M. A.) to his chronological age (C. A.) Thus, in the examples cited, Alice would have an I. Q. of 80, which is arrived at as follows: 10.00 (C. A.) 8.00 (M. A.) 80 (I. Q.) Questions 1. What is distinctive about the intelligence test of Binet and Simon? 2. What has been the effect of their work? 3. What other ways of testing and measuring intelligence do you know about? C.—WHERE DO THE INTELLIGENCE TESTS FALL DOWN? (Pages 79-82) There has been a great deal of criticism of the various intelligence tests because it is said they do not accurately measure intelligence. In the first place, it is contended that native intelligence cannot be tested apart from learning. That is to say, the intelligence test of necessity measures knowledge, experience, and learning, as well as capacity. Secondly, the child's facility or lack of facility with language enters into the test to a great extent. Thirdly, that the personality of the tester, the conditions under which the test is given, and the physical and emotional state of the person being tested, affect the results very materially. Fourthly, that most intelligence tests fail to discover and measure the nature and extent of unusual intellectual powers. Granted these criticisms and others, the fact remains that intelligence testing has come to be a most helpful method of comparing and classifying persons for educational and vocational purposes. It is axiomatic in the field of mental testing that the results of intelligence tests should, in individual cases especially, be accepted tentatively and interpreted very cautiously. Questions 1. What other values and limitations can you see in intelligence testing, as it is now practiced? 2. What kind of training is necessary to administer and to interpret intelligence tests? 3. What dangers lurk in the careless and unprofessional use of intelligence tests and test results? 116 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE D.—MENTAL AND PHYSICAL GROWTH (Pages 83-88) One of the most important and at the same time difficult problems is the inter-relationship of mental and physical development. The author's discussion of this topic is an excellent bit of work; it should be read carefully and with the following questions in mind: 1. Does the intellect develop at the same rate and for as long a period as the body? How is this to be explained? 2. What is the difference between the intellectual development of the inferior and the superior child. (Examine the chart on page 82, noting carefully the differences in the 3 curves.) 3. What is the author's theory as to why prodigies often "peter out" in later years? 4. How do you harmonize the author's statement that "The intelligence quotient tends to remain constant during the greater part of the period of growth?" (page 83.) With the actual facts in the cases cited? (pages 86-87.) Life's Sunset By Ida R. Alldredge There are days all bright and sunny With never a cloud o'er head, When the birds so sweetly warble In the trees just over head; When the world is full of beauty, And the heart is full of joy; Those, the happy carefree hours Of every girl and boy. There are days when clouds and sunshine Make a checkered path to tread, Or shadows dark are lurking In the trail that's just ahead, Or it might be lined with flowers Of some rare exquisite hue; Those the days when duty waits us, And bring joy and sorrow too. Then the peaceful evening follows, When the sun sinks in the west; 'Tis the sunset's rosy glowing, And the time we love the best; When it glows in gorgeous splendor, Casts its light o'er hill and plain, Golden tinted clouds and silver Blend with mellow shades again. So the sunset on life's pathway Should shine too with radiant light, Making rich the lives of others Who are struggling to the heights, Giving out their rich experience To help others find the way; 'Tis the peaceful benediction To a long and well spent day. Free Seed Guide Book FOR 1928 NOW READY You will find nothing of greater help in your garden and Orchard planting than P-W's New Seed and Nursery Book. It contains 100 pages of concise well-illustrated information of vital interest to Every Home Owner. Its Free—Call, Phone or Write PORTER-WALTON CO. 42 West 1st South Street Salt Lake City Do This! Wash with the Then you'll know how clean clothes can be washed—how easily and quickly they can be done, and it costs you nothing to make the test—not even a promise to buy. See big tubfuls washed immaculately clean in 3 to 7 minutes. See a big pile of clothes—50 pounds (dry weight)—washed in one short hour. See collars and cuffs washed edge-dirt free, without hand-rubbing. If it doesn't sell itself, don't keep it. MAYTAG INTERMOUNTAIN CO. Distributors Aluminum Washer When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine 215 SOUTH STATE SALT LAKE CITY Special Sale of VANITY Full Fashioned Hosiery 42 GAUGE, OF FINEST SILK An all over silk chiffon stocking—a real $1.95 value at the special price of $1.59. Box of three pair $4.55. Extra heavy service weight, silk to welt. Mercerized heel and toe. A real value at $1.95, special price of $1.59, a box of three pair $4.55. A semi-chiffon stocking, silk to welt. Mercerized heel and toe. A real value at $1.85, special price $1.49, box of three pair $4.25. All new goods. All the new shades. Mail orders filled. On sale. Glazier & Taylor Hosiery Co. 33 East Broadway VANITY HOSIERY SHOPPE 22 East Broadway Reliable L. D. S. GARMENTS Buy our Pre-Shrunk Garments They Wear the Longest and Fit the Best No. L. N. S. O. S. 54 Bleached med. Cotton $1.75 $1.90 56 Unbleach. Med. Cotton..1.75 1.90 58 Unbleach. Hvy. Cotton... 2.25 64 Fine Lisle................1.75 2.00 104 Fine Rayon Silk.........5.00 Samples Sent on Request Merit Bread Best Quality and Full Weight Utah Products Used Exclusively In Our Bakery When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine IT PAYS TO BE PROTECTED! $18,391.36 Paid to Date $15,000.00 in Death Claims; $3,010.10 in Disability Claims $7,500.00 Accident Policy Per Year $1.00 We offer to old and new subscribers this unusual protection. Accidents happen every day. For your own protection and the protection of your family Insure today. Now is the time to renew policy taken out a year ago. Certain benefits, if policy is renewed before lapsing, carry a 10 per cent increase. The Deseret News SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH Good Books Are Guides To Health and Happiness Come in and look over the books by your favorite authors and we are sure you will find something to interest you. "A Good Book Makes the Best Gift" Deseret Book Company 44 East South Temple When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine MRS OLGA WHEATLY HONEYVILLE UTAH Blue Pine AND KITCHEN KING FOOD PRODUCTS Full of Flavor SOLD ON MONEY BACK GUARANTEE Extracts Walnuts Spices Olive Oil Bottled Vinegar The season for pastry, cakes and candy is at hand—Blue Pine food products are guaranteed to please you or your money back. Say BLUE PINE To Your Grocer When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine SILVER SERVICE! Every woman loves the charm and distinction of even a few pieces of silver for her table. BOYD PARK has long enjoyed the pleasure of supplying these valuable and useful treasures, and, today, with a convenient payment plan to assist you, you may make your selections here. BOYD PARK JEWELERS 56 MAIN STREET SALT LAKE CITY FOR THREE GENERATIONS VIA SOUTHERN PACIFIC LINES To LOS ANGELES AND RETURN BOTH WAYS $50.40 via SAN FRANCISCO To LOS ANGELES via SAN FRANCISCO return $50.00 ing direct or route reversed Proportionately low fares from all other points in UTAH, IDAHO and MONTANA. STOPOVERS ALLOWED AT ALL POINTS. TICKETS ON SALE DAILY FINAL RETURN LIMIT 6 MONTHS For further information CALL, WRITE or PHONE PRESS BANCROFT, GENERAL AGENT 41 SO. MAIN ST. SALT LAKE CITY PHONES WAS. 3008—3078 Nobody can stop loss. Everybody can avoid it through INSURANCE When you come here for insurance you get it, coupled with attentive experienced service. This is an agency of the Utah Home Fire Insurance Co. UTAH HOME FIRE INSURANCE CO. HEBER J. GRANT & CO., General Agents, Salt Lake City, Utah When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine Famous Z. C. M. I. Factory-Made Ask your dealer for the Mountaineer OVERALLS For men, youths, boys and children, 9-oz. Copper Riveted WAIST OVERALLS For men and boys. Wear 'em and let 'er buck. Guaranteed for Quality, Fit and Service ALLOVERS and PLAY SUITS For Children A Great Western Institution of Protection Inter-Mountain Life Insurance Company J. O. CARTER, President and Manager Life and Accident Insurance in Force $39,522,987.00 Our modern up-to-date policies afford complete protection including Double Indemnity, Total Disability, and Beneficiary Insurance. "No Substitute for Life Insurance Can Be Found Until You Find a Remedy for Death" Our Motto is:—SECURITY and SERVICE to ALL POLICYHOLDERS When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine Home Office—Continental Bank Building Salt Lake City, Utah L. D. S. GARMENTS DIRECT FROM FACTORY You are guaranteed unusual wear and satisfaction from Cutler Garments. Return them for full refund if they do not give this required service. Cutler Underwear has maintained the highest standard of quality for over twenty years. No. 75 Light weight $1.75 No. 74 Lt. Weight combed 1.45 No. 64 Medium weight 1.15 No. 76 Lt. Weight lisle 1.45 No. 62 Medium heavy 1.70 No. 56 Heavy weight 2.15 Please state whether for men or women—new or old style Postage prepaid Pay Cash—Cash Pays The Utah Milk for People Leads For many uses it takes the place of cream at about one-third the cost. It is always safe, pure and convenient. Ask for Sego Milk and be sure you get what you ask for. APEX PORTABLE FOLDING ELECTRIC IRONER Made by the Manufacturers of the Famous Apex Suction Cleaner With all the convenience features for which you have been waiting ALL ELECTRIC FULL OPEN END EASY KNEE CONTROL FOLD BACK FEED BOARD SWINGING CLOTHES RACK EXTENSION END TRAY EASY RUNNING CASTORS NICKEL PLATED SHOE LOW OPERATING COST A flip of the lever converts it from an ironing machine to a pressing machine. Irons The Entire Family Wash Phone or Write for Full Information Inter-Mountain Electric Co. 13-69 EAST 4th SO. PHONE WASATCH 354 When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine No. 61 Med. Hvy. Unbleached with double back 1.70 No. 27 Med. Heavy, 1/4 wool 3.35 No. 39 Extra heavy, 1/2 wool 3.85 L. D. S. GARMENTS When ordering, state Size, New or Old Style, and if for man or lady. Postage prepaid in U. S. Sample on request. 32 Combed Cotton, Lt. Wt. 1.50 1072 Super Wool Mixed Shrunk 4.00 222 Cotton, Rayon Striped 1.65 244 Swiss Rib, Lisle and Silk 744 Unbleached, Med. Hvy. 1.85 Ladies' hosiery, new shades 1.00 753 Bleached, Med. Hvy. 1.95 Salt Lake City, Utah BARTON & CO. Established in Utah 45 Years 142 WEST SOUTH TEMPLE ST. LATTER-DAY SAINT GARMENTS At Factory-to-Customer Prices The following numbers are made in old or new style for either Men or Women 1 Ribbed light weight cotton, with Rayon silk stripe. An excellent ladies' number $1.25 2 Ribbed light weight cotton. Our standard summer number $1.25 3 Ribbed medium weight cotton bleached. Our all season number $1.65 4 Ribbed heavy weight, unbleached cotton. Our double back number $2.25 5 Part wool, ribbed, unbleached. Our best selling wool number $3.00 6 High grade Rayon Tricot with sham silk. For particular people $4.00 (new style only) $2.75 7 Pure worsted wool with Silkine Mercerized cotton. Our best medium winter number $5.75 8 Ribbed heavy weight, unbleached cotton and wool. Our light weight wool number $5.75 9 Ribbed medium weight, wool and cotton. Our light weight, winter number $4.75 In ordering be sure and specify whether Old or New Style Garments, three-quarter, or ankle length legs, short or long sleeves are wanted. Also give bust measure and height and weight to insure a perfect fit. Mail Orders Filled Promptly THE ORIGINAL UTAH WOOLEN MILLS Briant Stringham, Manager 20 Richards Street 1/2 Block South of Temple Gate Special Sunday Bricks and Neapolitan Bricks 25¢ pt., 50¢ qt. Call Your Keeley's Dealer. Extra packed in ice. ICE CREAM CANDY CAKE PUNCHES Buy our Pre-Shrunk Garments They Wear the Longest and Fit the Best No. L. N. S. O. S. 54 Bleached med. Cotton $1.75 $1.90 56 Unbleach. Med. Cotton..1.75 1.90 58 Unbleach. Hvy. Cotton... 2.25 64 Fine Lisle................1.75 2.00 104 Fine Rayon Silk.........4.50 5.00 Samples Sent on Request When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine 142 Light Weight, Flat $.95 404 Double Carded Cotton, Rib 1.35 252 Cotton Bleached, Med. Wt. 1.75 622 Mercerized Lisle, Lt. Wt. $2.15 902 Unbleached, Ex. Hvy. 2.50 Rayon, New Style 2.25 Ask for one of our folders describing the different services we offer. Hyland LAUNDRY 190 Distinctive Work Office 319 S. Main St. Waffles For Breakfast We should'a drunk more milk when we wuz kids Hotpoint Waffle Irons Bake beautifully brown, delicious waffles—both sides at once without turning. They make them right at the table with no grease or smoke. Just pour on the batter, close the iron, and in a jiffy the waffles are done just right. Hotpoint Waffle Irons are finished in rich polished nickel that stays bright and new. DeLuxe Model $15.00. Another model at $10.50. "The Hotpoint Shop" every time. And the prize is health. Modern Electric Co. Was. 2307 128 South State Electrical Dealers and Contractors 159 W. 1st So. Was. 2177 YOUNG SAMSON knows what he's aiming at—a bottle of our rich, creamy milk. It's a ringer CLOVER LEAF DAIRY Since 1859 Intelligent Service—Mail Orders—Customer Satisfaction UTAH'S GREAT DEPARTMENT STORE When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine CONTENTS The Abduction of Pocahontas Frontispiece Mother's Evening Song 118 Letter to President Clarissa S. Williams 119 Book of Mormon Women and Their Work 121 Five Generations 127 Cyrus E. Dallin and the Indians 128 Editorials—The Passing of Edward H. Anderson 133 Now's the Time to Swat 134 The Centenary of the Birth of Henrick Ibsen 135 The Adventures of Mr. Fly 136 National Council of Women of the United States 138 "Unto the Least of These" 142 Tribute to Eliza R. Snow 151 The Flowers' Mission 153 Carry a Basketful of Happiness 155 Notes from the Field 156 This is the Day 160 Guide Lessons for May 160 Zion's Mountains 174 Organ of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints Room 29 Bishop's Bldg. Salt Lake City, Utah $1.00 a Year—Single Copy, 10c Foreign, $1.25 a Year—15c Single Copy Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah Phone Wasatch 3123 VOL. XV MARCH, 1928 NO. 3 Mother's Evening Song By Amy M. Rice (Second Poem to Receive Honorable Mention in the Eliza Roxey Snow Poetry Contest) Long ago when twilight gathered I would turn my wayward feet Toward my home, in fear and trembling At the shadows I would meet. Then I'd scurry through the meadow Falter neath low hanging trees Stalked by Gnomes of childish fancy Till upon the evening breeze Came the sounds of sweetest music That my soul has ever known. 'Twas the voice of mother singing Just to lead me safely home. "Guide us, Oh thou great Jehovah" Every word I'd understand. "We are weak, but thou art able, Hold us with thy powerful hand." Gone the fear that stalked my footsteps. Gone the phantoms of the night. As those words in happy cadence, Filled my soul with strange delight. Gentle breezes spread the chorus Over all the friendly land. "We are weak, but thou art able, Hold us with thy powerful hand." Many years since then have brought me Their full share of night and day. Oft I've stood in fear and trembling In the shadows by the way. From the past those words still linger Helping me to make my choice. "Guide us, Oh thou great Jehovah" In my mother's singing voice. And again the shadows vanish And my soul is strong and brave. For I know she still is singing In that home beyond the grave; Singing songs of praise and glory In that far off, happy land. "Guide us, Oh thou great Jehovah, Hold us with thy powerful hand." When the last great shadows gather And my day on earth is done— Then I know I'll hear her singing Just to guide me safely home. Letter to President Clarissa S. Williams January 31, 1928 President Clarissa S. Williams, 1401 Sigsbee Avenue, Salt Lake City, Utah. Dear Sister Williams: The sisters of the General Board of the Relief Society desire to express to you and yours at this sad hour, their fond affection and sincere sympathy. We know that words avail little in conveying the sentiments we truly feel for you and yours, as we contemplate the sunset of a career like that of Brother Williams; not terminated, but only transferred to a higher sphere of service. In the passing of Brother Williams, we too have lost a valued friend and wise advisor. All of his associates in the many activities of life, testify to the fact that "he was a friend to man." It has been said that "it is a great gift, a divine gift, to be a friend, and perhaps it is the greatest thing one mortal can be towards another." Brother Williams had a host of friends even at the time of life when men are prone to feel that many of their friends have already passed beyond. We know him as a true gentleman, who lent dignity to every path he trod. He honored the many positions he filled and was a credit to his state and people. Modest and unassuming, yet public spirited, he did his part to build up and maintain the morality and integrity of the community in which he lived. He has borne the burdens of life nobly, for no man achieves the place that Brother Williams occupied without bearing burdens. He has earned his rest, a rest that no one would deny him. The companion of his life, his sons and daughters no doubt feel that he has rounded out a beautiful life and is entitled to the reward of the faithful and the righteous. Be of good cheer. Sorrow not. Could Brother Williams speak, he would say with the poet: "Let more attest, I have lived and seen God's hand through a life time, and all was for the best." God's blessings be upon you always, Your sisters and your friends, GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY, Annie Wells Cannon, Alice L. Reynolds, Lotta Paul Baxter, Committee. Note: This letter will be recorded in the minutes of the General Board of the Relief Society. THE ABDUCTION OF POCAHONTAS From a painting by J. L. G. Ferris THE Relief Society Magazine VOL. XV MARCH, 1928 NO. 3 Book of Mormon Women and Their Work By John Henry Evans The Story of Obscure Man. There was to be an organ recital in the Tabernacle at Salt Lake City. You know without being told what a wonderful thing that is even today, when there are other great organs in the United States. It was more so in the days I am speaking of, because at that time it was the only instrument of its kind in the country, if not in the world. On this occasion some notable persons from different parts of our nation were present to hear the organ for the first time. The organist, who very naturally wanted to show himself at his best, proudly struck the keys for the opening notes. But no opening notes issued. He struck them again, with the same result. It was in the days before electricity had been harnessed to do the hundred-and-one things it now does for man. In considerable alarm he went behind the instrument to see if the man who operated the bellows that furnished the power had any explanation of the organ's embarrassing silence. "I was not turning the crank," he said simply. "Not turning the crank!" the organist fairly shouted. "And for what reason, pray?" "You see, sir, it's this way: You, bein' at the keyboard, gets all the praise and credit for the beautiful music, while I, bein' back here where nobody ever comes, gets none at all. And yet, sir, as you'll admit you can't do anything without me. I just wanted to teach you, sir—that's all." The Story of Obscure Woman. That is the way it has been with woman. Always, until recently, she has been at the back of the organ, while man has been at the keyboard, and often it has not mattered that she has, more times than we can count, furnished the inspiration and the power by which man has worked. It is as if you were to hold up a 122 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE rose to be admired and forget all about the wondrous forces inside it that had produced its surpassing beauty. Not in one nation alone has woman been in the background and man in the foreground, but in all nations, especially in the Hebrew nation, where lay the roots of the Nephite peoples. Jewish Ideals of Woman in Ancient Times. That hint about the Hebrews will bear looking into a little. It may give us a clew on which to work when we come to look for the ideals of womanhood that the ancient peoples of this continent started out with and developed here. And so I ask the question, What about woman among the descendants of Abraham? From the time of this patriarch to the close of the New Testament days, is about two thousand years. Yet in those twenty centuries there is surprisingly little in the Bible about woman and her work. Mostly we read of what man thought and did. That is partly because woman's position among the Jews was subordinate to man's and partly because man wrote all the histories. If the person at the keyboard I mentioned were to write a book about organs, we should perhaps have little or nothing about the worker at the bellows. The Hebrews had no woman ruler—at least, no woman that appeared openly as a ruler. None was ever on the throne, that is, although, for anything we know at present, she may have directed public affairs on more than one occasion from behind the scenes. Public affairs were for men. The home was for woman, but even there man was in theory the "head." Woman was at best "an help meet for him." Paul forbade a woman to speak in the church. A man might have more than one wife. Also, not to have children was a "reproach." For "children are an heritage of the Lord, and his reward." It was dishonorable, too, for a woman to be idle. The work she was expected to do lay in the home. She was supposed to grind corn between two millstones, to herd sheep, to prepare the food, to dispense hospitality, to make clothing for the whole family. She was expected, moreover, to cultivate the kindlier virtues in herself and in the children, if she had any. Sometimes, as in the case of Hannah, she dedicated her son to the Lord. A widow could always claim protection, and if she had a brother-in-law on her husband's side, she was supposed to marry him. These are the things that stand out in the culture of the Israelites, so far as concerns the station and the work of woman, and these are the things, too, that must have lain at the foundation of Nephite life in this respect, as we shall see when we come to consider the few women whose names are mentioned in the Book of Mormon. That is not to say, though, that the Jews did not regard the work of their women as important, for BOOK OF MORMON WOMEN 123 they did so look upon it. Nor is it saying that they did not love and cherish their women as highly as the men of other nations. The fact is, there have been no people of any time or country that thought better of womanhood than the children of Abraham. And in this respect, too, the Nephites, their kinsmen, must have resembled them. Sariah, Lehi's Wife. The first of the Book of Mormon women to be mentioned here is Sariah, Lehi's wife. She is given three little sentences in the Record. On the occasion when the four boys returned from Jerusalem with the brass plates, our Old Testament, essentially, her son Nephi writes: "My mother, Sariah, was exceeding glad, for she truly had mourned because of us. For she had supposed that we had perished in the wilderness. And she also had complained against my father, telling him that he was a visionary man and that he had led us forth from the land of our inheritance to perish in the wilderness, because her sons were no more. After this manner had my mother complained against my father. But when we returned, my mother was comforted." This has been taken to mean that Sariah was but poor spiritual consolation to her husband, however good a housewife she may have proved, for, after all, "man shall not live by bread alone." And that may easily be. But it may have been only a temporary mood, brought on by a terrible anxiety. There is a bare possibility, too, that this may have been an isolated case, just as in most homes today a batch of bad bread draws a fatherly comment because it is exceptional, whereas a hundred batches of good bread evoke no mention, because they are taken for granted. Not, of course, that I am defending Sariah in the situation. To complain is never really justifiable, however human it may be. I am only suggesting that her complaint should not be allowed to blind our eyes to her virtues. What stands out in the passage quoted is her motherly solicitude. She may not have the faith and trust in God that her husband has, but, if so, she probably has not so much knowledge, either. The simple words, "My mother was comforted," leaves room for the imagination. Abish, the Lamanite. Another woman mentioned in the Nephite record was named Abish. She was a Lamanite, and therefore what is said of her is the more remarkable since these people did not, on the whole, take any interest in religion. You will easily recall the circumstances in the case. Ammon, a Nephite missionary, has come among the Lamanites, under a special urge to convert them. He has preached the gospel to the king, who now lies prostrate on the ground, overcome by the Spirit. The queen also, presently, with Ammon and some herdsmen of the king's lies there from the same cause. And now Abish comes upon the scene. Gladness is in her eye and on her face and in her heart. And so, in order that as many others as possible may experience the same sensation as herself, she rushes out and goes from house to house, telling everyone to "come and see." But when they have come, their hearts respond differently from hers. They are angry. They seek for the cause, and, as usual with bad humor, light on the wrong thing. It is the Nephite stranger, they think, that is responsible for all the trouble. But the maid knows it is due to the power of the Lord working in the prostrate forms. When she fears that one of them will hack Ammon to pieces, she goes to the queen, takes her by the hand, and revives her. A woman is supposed not to be able to keep a secret. But Abish has one, and knows how to keep it, too. Here it is: Years before, perhaps when she was a little girl, her father— was he a Lamanite?—had a vision. What had become of him or how he come to have one, is left to the imagination, like so many other things in the Book of Mormon. But the vision was good seed put into fruitful soil with Abish. For his daughter, not daring to mention it to her ignorant and hardened associates, had secretly nursed and cherished it in her heart, waiting, no doubt, for the time when she might speak out. And now that time had come. It is only a glimpse that we get of Abish—but a glimpse of a face that reveals much, if we use our imagination. The Lamanite Queen. And this Lamanitish queen, too, is interesting. We do not know what her name is. She is called merely "the queen." Her husband is king only of a province, not of all the Lamanites, and a bloody-minded fellow he is, too, till he is converted. For, as you know, he does not think twice over a trifling matter like running his poor herdsmen through with the sword because they have let thieves steal his majesty's cows or sheep. Of course, we must not allow ourselves to think of crowns and thrones, of fine silks and perfumed baths, of palaces and liveried servants, when we say "queen" in this case. For the Lamanites of those days were—well, Lamanites. But the queen was still a queen, and, as the old saying has it, all women are the same "under the skin." When the king, her husband, had fallen, he was carried to her presence and laid on the bed. Believing him to be dead, although she declared he did not smell, she and her sons and daughters mourned over him after the fashion of her people. Two days he lay thus. Then she sent for Ammon, of whose prowess with the cattle thieves she had heard. 'The servants of my husband," she said to him, "have told me that thou art a BOOK OF MORMON WOMEN 125 prophet of a holy God and that thou hast power to do mighty things. Go in and see the king." Ammon did so. This, of all things, was what he had desired. "He is not dead," was his simple comment, "but sleepeth in God. On the morrow he shall rise again. Do you believe this?" "If you say it is so," she answered, "I believe." "Blessed art thou," Ammon went on. "Woman, there has not been such great faith among all the Nephites." This statement throws light, not only on the queen, but also on the Nephite women in general. She watched at the bedside of her husband from that time till he rose on the following day, believing that, as Ammon had predicted, he surely would rise. When this event happened, the king said, stretching out his hand to his wife, "Blessed be the name of God, and blessed art thou. For as surely as thou livest, I have seen my Redeemer, who shall come forth and be born of a woman, and redeem all those who will believe on His name."' It was on this occasion that the queen with the rest, sank down, overpowered by the Spirit. On being raised by Abish, she stood up on her feet and cried "with a loud voice," "O blessed Jesus, who has saved me from an awful hell! O blessed God, have mercy on this people!" Her hands folded and her heart overflowing with joy, she said things that those present were unable to understand. Then, taking the hand of her husband, just as Abish had taken hold of hers, she revived him. The Ammonite Mothers. {n a letter of Helaman to Moroni during the great war between the Nephites and the Lamanites, less than three quarters of a century before the coming of Christ in the flesh, we get a glimpse of a group of mothers in their influence over their sons. These, too, happen to be Lamanite women, but women who have become converted to the teachings of the Nephites. Here, as you will remember, is the setting: The king and queen and Abish, with their whole people and some thousands in other Lamanite provinces, have joined the church. In order to save them from being slaughtered by the unconverted Lamanites, Ammon and his fellow missionaries conduct them to the land of Zarahemla, where they were well received by the Nephites and are given the Land of Jershon as their home. And here they live in peace, guarded by an armed force of their white neighbors. You will recall, too, that, when the war broke out, these Ammonites, as they were called, were very much troubled in' spirit over their not being able to fight for their country, because they had made a covenant never again to shed human blood. As the war progressed, however, their boys grew up 126 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE into young men. Not having sworn, as their fathers had, not to shed human blood, these boys might enlist—which they did with the eagerness of youth looking for adventure and the heroic deed. There were two thousand of them, and they were led by no less a person than the high priest, Helaman. "They were all young men," says the record, "exceeding valiant for courage and also for strength and activity." Not only so. "They were men who were true at all times in whatsoever thing they were entrusted." Helaman calls them affectionately "my sons" and "my stripling Ammonites." I need not here recount the details of their adventure. That I have done in another chapter of this book. It is enough to know that in all the battles these young men fought—and they were in many and contested with absolute indifference to their own safety—not one of them lost his life, although everyone of them was wounded, more or less seriously. What is the secret of this fact? Their mothers' teachings, declares Helaman, when their captain asked them how it was that they obeyed his orders with such exactness, they told him their mothers had taught them. And when he inquired into the cause of their absolute faith that they would not fall in battle, he received the same answer, "Our mothers did teach us!" Those devout women had burned into their hearts the thought—"if you do not doubt, God will deliver you from death by the sword." It was a great tribute to the mothers of those two thousand boys— such a tribute as any mother, in whatever country or time, might well be proud of. Estimate in Which Women Were Held. Women, therefore, were held in high esteem among the Nephites, especially of the republic. Amulek, a companion of Alma on many of his preaching tours, speaks with reverence of women. The phrase "in defense of our wives and our children" formed a part of the Nephite battle cry, not only as an incentive for men to enlist, but also during an actual engagement. It was only in the last days of the nation that this estimate fell, that weapons of war were thrust into the hands of women and children. Some of the Things Women Did. As for the work women were required to do among this people, very little information is attainable by us now. In various places in the Book of Mormon we find statements to the effect that the women made "good homely cloth," that they spun, and that they made silk and "fine-twined linen." Doubtless, too, they 'prepared food for the household, looked after the education of the children, and in general did whatever was to be done about the home, meantime cultivating such feminine virtues as were deemed valuable in that age and under those conditions of life. The above is a picture of Mrs. Joseph A. McGuire (center back row) of Honolulu, Hawaiian Mission; her mother, Mrs. S. K. Kaeo; her daughter, Mrs. George Lin; granddaughter, Mrs. Frank Rodrigues; and great granddaughter, Miss Evelin Rodrigues. Sister McGuire is well known to Hawaiian Missionaries, having entertained many of them in her home. She is an ardent Church worker in the Waikiki Branch; a faithful 'Relief Society teacher; and belongs to the Hawaiian Choir. She also does considerable temple work. Cyrus E. Dallin and the Indians By Lula Greene Richards At the evening services in the Twentieth ward, Salt Lake City, August 15, 1926, a pleasing lecture was given by Cyrus E. Dallin, the oldest and best known of Utah sculptors. His theme, in the main, was his acquaintance with and admiration for the Aborigines of our country. In Springville, Utah, where Mr. Dallin was born, the Indians. Often came and pitched their wigwams so that they were neighbors to the white settlers, and as a child the boy found much pleasure and obtained much useful information by associating with the boys of the "red skins," as they were sometimes called. Several games were described, by the speaker, which he learned of the Indian children, The boys, as also the Indians generally, were found to be friendly and honest in their sports and in their dealings generally with the white people. One thing, the little white boy envied his dark skinned playfellows for was that they never received corporal punishment for the childish mistakes they made, which could not be said of the children of English parents generally, to whom the admonition "spare the rod," etc., meant a great deal. The free and easy manner of life which characterized the Indians, with their good natured, jovial talk carried a dignity, a charm for young Dallin which he failed to discover among many other people who were hard working and readily irritated. The inspiration which was the forerunner awakening the latent fire of genius in the soul of the boy, was first really sensed at a “Peace Compact" which he witnessed between United States officers and Indian chiefs. These ceremonies took place in a large tent belonging to the white officers. This tent was pitched in a beautiful meadow surrounding one of the cool, pleasant springs. The officers were seated in the tent ready for the peace talk when the Indians came riding down through a mountain pass to join them. How majestic and splendid those Indian braves, all painted up and bedecked with beads and feathers, appeared to the appreciative boy it would be difficult to describe or even to imagine. The head chief among the troop a Indians and two: or three others closely associated with him dismounted and were directed to enter the tent where the white officers were. The other Indians remained on their horses where they sat very orderly, manifesting remarkable patience during the council of the leaders inside the tent. The business was attended to with much dehydration and a considerable length of time was consumed with it. CYRUS E. DALLIN AND THE INDIANS 129 As soon as those authorized to take part in the council were all inside the tent, the front flap which was the door, was dropped so that those outside could not see what was being done inside. But boys were not to be kept from seeing "a circus" because the front entrance was closed. There were other ways. The back of the tent was but a short distance from a patch of green corn. It was a hot summer's day. The men in the tent would have to have air. The boys felt certain the back of the tent would be opened—and it was. And boys were there at the edge of the corn field to see and hear what was being done within the tent. To one boy at least the business of that Peace Compact was exceedingly interesting. The spontaneous, simple sincerity and native dignity of the Indian chief who led in the business to be transacted made so profound an impression upon the boy that it was never to be forgotten. The chief brought out a large, long stemmed pipe, which evidently was to be smoked as "The Pipe of Peace.'"' He courteously offered it to the leader among the white officers to be smoked first. Not to be outdone in politeness by an Indian the white man cordially waved the pipe back to the chief to be first smoked by himself. The chief graciously accepted the consideration thus shown and after lighting the pipe drew a long breath from it and facing the east expelled the smoke slowly. Another wreath was inhaled, the chief turned and the smoke was blown toward the west. The same was repeated toward the north and toward the south. Then the smoke was blown up toward the sky, and lastly down toward the earth. This was done as a token that the chief pledged peace on all sides and in every direction with the white people. When this performance was completed he carefully wiped the end of the stem with a corner of his blanket before passing the pipe again to the white man. The same routine was gone through by every man in the tent. Then they all shook hands heartily, which appeared to complete the proceedings. After a while as the boy grew older the creative fire kindled in his soul became irresistible and had to seek expression. It took Cyrus E. Dallin away from his home, his kindred, all the beloved associations of his early life up to that time, to seek out the line of his life work and the possibilities awaiting him. He started out a poor young man with almost nothing to spend as he went, and with no knowledge of what was considered necessary to carry in traveling. He had no food with him and was soon hungry. The railroad trains were new then in this part of the country. They had no sleepers or dining cars. You had to sleep where you sat if you slept on the train, and take with you what 130 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE you should eat or money to buy supplies at stopping places. Dallin had started for Chicago, taking nothing with him to eat and very little with which to buy supplies of any kind. He felt lonesome. He did not know anyone in the crowds around him. But he was not lonesome very long. Before the train pulled out a great joy came to him when he saw quite a delegation of Indians board the cars. They had been invited to go to the capitol of the United States and meet in council there with the president and other leaders of the government. Dallin was not long in making acquaintance with these dark travelers. They were Crow Indians, instead of Utes, with whom the boy had been so much associated formerly. But although their language was diifferent to the Utes, the Indians had a sign language which seemed to be similar in the different tribes and familiar to all. The boy had a fairly good understanding of their sign language and soon picked up a few words so he could converse easily with the Crows, which was interesting and agreeable on both sides. It was not long either before the white boy was invited to join in feasting upon jerked meat and other edibles with which the Indians, being more wise than the boy had sensibly supplied themselves. For four days the journeying with those people, in whom the boy found much that was good to study, was a pleasure trip for which he was very thankful. When the train passed through a dark tunnel there were no lights in the cars to be switched on, but all was total blackness. The Indians were greatly alarmed and grunted significantly. When they came out again into daylight every one of the Indians except two were standing erect and showed by their looks that they were badly frightened. The two exceptions had crawled under their seats as far as they could, where they lay huddled in great fear. They wanted Dallin to tell them what it meant. He had no language in which to explain it to them, except the sign language, in which they conversed. So, putting the tips of his fingers together and holding them up in a way to indicate the formation of a mountain, he pointed to the mountain outside the car window to show them what he meant. Then with his left hand, putting the tips of his thumb and fingers together he indicated the hole or tunnel which had been bored through a portion of the mountain, and with the index finger of his right hand described the train of cars rushing through the tunnel and coming out on the other side. The Indians understood and were satisfied. When they were rushed through another tunnel they were perfectly silent, there were no gruntings and no signs of fright when they saw daylight again. As they were reaching the point where the Indians were to take train for Washington and the-white boy for Chicago, the boy felt rather lonesome again. But he cheerfully shook hands CYRUS E. DALLIN AND THE INDIANS 131 with the Indians and made them know that he appreciated their kind treatment and sociability towards him and that he would not forget them. After having shaken hands with each one except the head chief who was a large and powerful man, Dallin wondered if he dared to approach him. He had not spoken with that great man and did not know whether the chief had seen him or known that he was there with some of the less important of his company. But the big chief took notice, now seeming to sense the embarrassment the white boy felt, and manifested his friendly sentiments towards him by shaking his hand warmly and looking as though he felt good to acknowledge his presence and wished him well. Dallin thought a white man could not have shown a boy more consideration under such circumstances. The boy was made to feel less alone in the big world by the evidence of such genial fellowship from one of the people he already thought so well of. Many years later on one of his trips home, Dallin, having business in Washington, D. C., found there another delegation of Indians just brought from the west. Pleased with the discovery the sculptor inquired of the Indians if any of them had been there before. To his delight he found one who had been in that other company and remembered the white boy with great satisfaction. The lecturer next took his audience to Paris, France, at the time he was first there. Good fortune still favored him in bringing near to where he was a company of his favorite people, the American Indians. They were engaged to travel and perform through England, France, etc., by the famous American "cowboy, Buffalo Bill," (William Cody) with his troop of cow boys. Dallin hastened to the place where the Indians were to perform, delighted and expectant. Others also hurried there. The introduction of American Indians and cowboys was a great novelty in Paris. One celebrity who took the young man's attention was the world renowned animal painter, Rosa Bonheur. She was dressed in a suit more like a man's than a woman's. Her head was covered with a small hat suited rather to a boy or man than a woman. Her dress and appearance throughout made it difficult to judge whether it was a man or a woman you saw. She, of course, was there to draw pictures of the horses to be ridden by the Indians and cowboys. Rosa hired a young man to hold a horse while she drew a picture of it. When she had finished her drawing she paid the man two francs for his help. Another fellow asked him, "How much did she pay you?" The one who had the honor of having been an assistant to the great artist replied, "Why do you say 'What did she pay your' That isa man!" The first questioner said he would bet as much as the money paid that the artist was 132 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE a woman. The honored one took the bet and of course lost the money he had earned. Rosa wanted to speak to the Indian chief and he was invited down from the stand where the Indians were seated to talk with the noted artist. Their talk had to be interpreted for them by some of the men who understood the different languages and could interpret. But they liked each other and expressed kindly feelings. Rosa presented the chief with a finger ring and said it was offered as a token of friendship. The Indian took the ring and placed it on his finger and said he accepted it as a token of friendliness. He held his hand up and looking at the ring declared, "Before that ring shall leave my finger the finger shall leave my hand." The artist was highly pleased with the gallantry displayed by the chief and had him told that she greatly appreciated the noble sentiment he had expressed, and that a 'Frenchman could not have said it better." The Indian name of the chief being interpretted meant "Soaring Eagle," or something of the kind, and Rosa had him told that in one respect there was a similarity in his name and hers, both were words with meanings—Bonheur meant "good feelings" or "happiness." Dallin's first finished piece of sculptor was an Indian on a horse—carrying out, in a measure at least, that first great inspiration revealing the line which was to determine his life work. His famous memorial statue of the noble Indian, Massasoit, at Plymouth, Massachusetts, is another demonstration of his faithfulness to early impressions in his chosen work. Loyal to his native state, a model of each of these productions stands in the State Capitol of Utah. Still clinging to his deep set fascination for the Indians, Dallin's imposing statue of the great pioneer leader, Brigham Young, standing in the center of the road at the crossing of South Temple and Main Street in Salt Lake City, Utah, has on the east side of its pedestal an Indian hunter in the act of shooting with bow and arrow. And in keeping with this idea the sculptor at the close of his lecture stressed the fact that President Brigham Young was an earnest friend of the Indians and always admonished his people to treat them with fairness and friendliess. A gigantic statue of "The Peace Indian" erected in some appropriate place in Utah and done by Cyrus E. Dallin, according to the ideal which was born in his soul as a boy, would be a splendid achievement which the native state of the sculptor would do well to foster. THE RELIEF SOCIETY OF THE CHURCH OF JESUS CHRIST OF LATTER-DAY SAINTS Motto—Charity Never Faileth THE GENERAL BOARD MRS. CLARISSA SMITH WILLIAMS - - -: - - - President MRS. JENNIE BRIMHALL KNIGHT - - - - - -.- First Counselor MRS. LOUISE YATES ROBISON - - - - - - = Second Counselor MRS. AMY BROWN LYMAN - - - - ~- _ General Secretary and Treasurer Mrs. Emma A, Empey Mrs. Lotta Paul Baxter Mrs. Ethel Reynolds Smith Mrs. Jeanette A. Hyde Mrs. Julia A. Child Mrs. Barbara Howell Richards Miss Sarah M. McLelland Mrs. Cora L. Bennion Mrs. Rosannah C. Irvine Mrs, Annie Wells Cannon Mrs. Julia A. F. Lund Miss Alice Louise Reynolds Mrs. Lalene H. Hart Mrs. Amy Whipple Evans Mrs. Nettie D. Bradford Mrs. Elise B. Alder Mrs. Lizzie Thomas Edward, Music Director Miss Edna Coray, Organist RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Editor - - - - - - - Clarissa A SMITH WILLIAMS Associate Editor - - -:: - Alice Louise Rreynolds Assistant Manager - - - - - -: Amy Brown Lyman Room 28, Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah Magazine entered as second-class matter at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah VoL. XV MARCH, 1928 No. 3 EDITORIAL The Passing of Edward H. Anderson The dean of the editors of Church magazines has gone to his reward. For thirty years he has attended to the multiplicity of details that must be taken care of if a magazine is to reach its readers in good shape and on time. Nothing comes by chance, and this is true in the severest sense when applied to magazine work, Every cut, every word, that enriches and adorns the pages must be attended to with the utmost scrupulosity. That Edward H. Anderson has done his work painstakingly and well the pages of the Era bear eloquent witness. At the service held Sunday, February 5th, in the Richards Ward Chapel, the speakers dwelt on the fact that Edward H. Anderson was a man of sound judgment, trustworthy in every sense of the word and a Latter-day Saint to the very core. All of these attributes have been reflected in the pages of the Improvement Era these many years. It has been our good fortune to mingle rather closely with Editor Anderson and to have recourse to his good advice, backed as, it was, by years of experience. Our feeling is the general feeling of those who have been close to him, that respect for him and admiration of him grew with the years. His was a gentle and refined spirit. 134 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE In this day when a veritable host of critics can be found who declare that spirituality has taken wing and that we are the victims of a mechanistic civilization, it is refreshing and reassuring to know men like Edward H. Anderson. It is a source of consolation to realize that his deep-seated spirituality has made itself felt on every editorial page and in the exercise of his function as critic over a period covering nearly half his earthly life. At the service Junius F. Wells, with whom Elder Anderson had connections early in his literary career, read a poem written by Editor Anderson entitled "My Star." On the 26th day of January it was our pleasure, at the Creative Artists dinner held in connection with the Leadership Week at the Brigham Young University, to listen to Editor Anderson respond to a toast. During his brief address he read this poem with much the same zest, we fancy, as in the days when he was a younger man and the poem was new. Those of us who heard the reading only seven days before his passing were peculiarly touched when we heard it read again by Elder Wells. His life was a hallowed life and the memory of it will always inspire those who knew him with fidelity, courage and faith. He was the servant of us all and above all else he was the servant of the Master, the greatest of all servants. Now's the Time to Swat We have had placed on our desk an editorial on the fly, published in the Minneapolis Journal. It is so timely that we are including it in our editorial columns. Now is the best time of the whole year to swat flies, as Dr. W. A. Evans remarked sometime since in his column on this page. Why swat flies in the winter, when they are so scarce? Because their very scarcity, plus the fact that those which dodge the swatter cannot seek refuge outdoors, makes a thorough job possible. In our dealings with the fly pest, most of us are like the Arkansas mountaineer who never patched his leaky roof, because the job could not be done in the rain, and did not need doing in fair weather. We go energetically about the business of swatting flies only when they are so plentiful as to arouse our ire, which is in the summer, when they are likewise so plentiful that there is little chance to effect even a visible reduction in their numbers. But now that it is winter and flies are so few that we could virtually exterminate the breed in Minneapolis, we do not swat as we should, for they are not noticeably bothering us. Save for those that travel into town on vehicles or railway trains, every one of the millions of flies that make nuisances of EDITORIAL 135 themselves in Minneapolis in summer, is a descendant of some fly that survived the preceding winter inside of some building right here in town. The average fly seldom travels more than a hundred yards from its birthplace under its own power. So the winter's flies in any locality are the ancestors of the subsequent summer's flies in that same region. One swat in December saves a thousand swats in August. The parent, who, in midsummer, pays his little boy a nickel a dozen bounty on swatted flies could save money by rasing the price to ten cents a head between November and March. If every househlder, and every user of business premises, were to hunt down vigilantly the few flies that now warm themselves under his roof, Minneapolis would come mighty close to being a flyless town next summer. The Centenary of the Birth of Henrik Ibsen It will be one hundred years on the 20th of March, 1928, since Henrik Ibsen, the great Norwegian dramatist, was born. He was a pathfinder, discovering new ways to do old things. He has very fittingly been called the Norwegian Shakespeare, and is generally allowed to be the greatest of all our modern dramatists. His greatest disciple is George Bernard Shaw, the man whose statements have such uncommon news value among contemporary men of letters. We are living in an age of realism. Ibsen was one of the first writers to give us a representation of what realism means in drama. A few days ago John Van Durten, the British critic and dramatist, who is the author of Young Woodley, stated that what Ibsen had done, to borrow an American phrase, was to "debunk" drama. In other words he has taken out of it the make-believe material and has attempted to show things as they actually exist. We are especially interested in Ibsen because his greatest play, The Doll's House, is a plea for a life for woman commensurate with the powers with which she is endowed. Nora had been educated to have superficial and incorrect notions of life. Consequently, when the disillusionment came she faced a terrible tragedy and precipitated a terrible tragedy for her family. Nevertheless, as she went forth from her home leaving husband and children she said, in so many words, I go forth to find out what the facts are concerning life. All of Ibsen's plays emphasize this idea. Shaw very whittily said that "Ibsen came to call the righteous (meaning the self-righteous) to repentance." It is notable that his country was among the first to grant suffrage to women, and that very early in the struggle Norwegian women were to be found in the Norwegian Parliament. It is 136 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE significant of the spirit of the nation, Ibsen taught, that the first woman to be made an ambassador to any country was to Norway. Russia had taken Ibsen and all his countrymen at their word and had appointed a woman to be its representative, and she was accepted. We feel it would be unpardonable neglect for a woman's magazine to pass by the centenary of Henrik Ibsen without drawing attention to the very notable work he did for the emancipation of women. The Adventures of Mr. Fly By Ann M. Bennion The first place I remember in my life, was a nice, dirty pig pen. I must have been very tiny because there were millions of us in one little space. Oh! Ho! It was a fine place. Just billions of big, fat germs, just what us flies like to live on. One day I decided to venture out into the world, so I left the rest of the family, and gathering a lot of germs on my legs, I started out. I soon came to a house where there were several children playing. Of course I wanted to be generous with them sc I unloaded my germ-laden legs on them and flew on into' the house. There, in the first room, lay a little girl tossing with fever. I heard someone say, it's typhoid. I could see several other flies playing around her so I went over, and there were all kinds of fine, fat typhoid germs, so I loaded my legs with them and flew into the next room where a baby was playing on the floor. I deposited some of my germs on him, then again I flew cutside but just as I flew out there was a strong breeze struck me and blew me a long distance. By the time I was able to land I was very hungry. I searched all around but was unable to find one thing to eat. I looked around and everything seemed so strange. There were very few flies. 1 just thought to myself, "This is a poor place for Mr. Fly to live." I decided I'd go in the house but as I hit what I thought was the doorway I almost broke my neck for there was a screen stretched. I crept around and around for almost two hours trying te find a place to get in. I thought, "Well, Mr. Fly, you are doomed to die from hunger." But all at once the screen opened and let me tell you I lost no time in flying through the door. Prospects seemed much worse inside for everything was so clean I could THE ADVENTURE OF MR. FLY 137 find nothing at all to drink or eat. Soon I heard a girl say, I am going to put out some formaldahyde for these flies. Of course I thought she was just feeling sorry for us. So I sat down on the table and waited. Soon she came with a saucer and placed it right by me. I went up and drank from the dish. Oh! It was good and even sugar init. But just at this stage, oh, dear me, my head, my stomach, oh, all over I was so sick. So I decided to lie down until I felt better. I saw my few comrades lying about me. Some were moaning, some were groaning, but oh, something was happening. Now we were all being gathered together into a dish pan. I turned over and could see we were going toward a big flame of fire. I knew this was my last chance, so I picked up all the strength I could muster up and flew across the room to the door. I stayed there until the fresh air had revived me. I felt I must have something to eat or I should surely perish. Just then someone brought out some nice roast beef. I thought I'd be very careful how I ate of it, but it was not necessary to prepare at all, for just as I went to light I heard someone say, "Swat that fly." Of course I didn't know what they meant, but I thought it was time for me to go, but just as I turned something came smash down on me breaking my wing and stunning me. I could not say how long I lay there on the floor, but when I came too, I looked up and saw the screen open. I thought right then, "This is no place for me," so I flew out of the door and out to the pig pen. It was also very clean but my attention aes soon drawn to a screen in some little slats inside of which was ies. I thought I should like to go in so I hunted around until I found a little funnel leading into it. But when I got in-there was no way of getting out. I have been and talked to some of the other flies and find out it is a fly trap and here I am doomed to stay until I die. But although this is a tragic death it is better than to live in that spotless, clean house where one's life is always in danger. National Council of Women of the United States Jennie B. Knight As we were leaving the convention hall on the 16th floor of Hotel Waldorf-Astoria, Dec. 5, 1927, we glanced through the window and found that night had crept upon us unawares. The grandeur of the scene before us held us spell bound. Far as one could catch the view were shadow-like buildings. On a level and higher than the hotel arose turrets, towers, domes and minarets, reaching into a star lighted sky. From this unusual silhouette, shown myriads of lights resembling the stars, some more brilliant than the rest, but each steadfast in its place giving light in needed places. And so the National Council of Women sends forth its light in its effort "to advance the best good of our homes and nation by the promotion of greater unity of thought, sympathy and purpose," and in its desire to "overthrow all forms of ignorance and injustice." The purpose of the National Council of Women, according to Article 11 of the By-Laws and Standing Rules, is to maintain connection with the International Council of Women of which it is the representative in this country, and to serve as a clearing-house for National Organizations of women in the United States assembling and exchanging methods of its constituent organizations. It will not undertake common programs, or pass joint resolutions effecting the policy of the constituent organizations. At present it has standing committees on citizenship, Child-Welfare Education, Equal Moral standards, Extension, Federal Legislation, Finance, Immigration, Industrial Relations, Motion Pictures, Music, Permanent Peace, Publicity, Public Health, and Special Committees on Art, Letters, Re-organization, Pan-AmericanStandard of Admission. Perhaps the subject which required the greatest amount of time and attention during this session was the matter of Reorganization. The lights from the National Council of Women which have shone brightly and effectively for forty years in their organized effort will not go out but continue "to advance the best good of our homes and nation." The council will continue "to maintain connection with the International Council of Women of which it is the representative in this country." There are at the present time, thirty-four member societies NATIONAL COUNCIL OF WOMEN 139 in the council with standing committees on Citizenship, ChildWelfare Education, Equal Moral Standards, Extension, Federal Legislation, Finance, Immigration, Industrial Relations, Motion Pictures, Music, Permanent Peace, Publicity, Public Health, and Special Committees on Art, Letters, "Re-organization, PanAmerican and Standard of Admission. All sessions of the conference were replete with information and inspiration. At the official opening of the convention Monday evening, the invocation was by Rev. Anna Garlin Spencer. Greetings and welcomes were extended by the chairman of the local committee and the mayor of New York City, Mrs. Moore and Mrs. Spencer, both honorary officers. The president's address followed in which she paid high tribute to those who in the service of the council "gave selflessly of their strength and vision, then passed into silence, leaving their memories and inspiration as a precious heritage." She gave a brief history of the accomplishments of the council from its organization in 1888, calling attention also to the International Council. Among the many achievements of the National Council she mentioned "the establishment by congress of the U. S. Children's Bureau in 1912, following the recommendations of Presidents Roosevelt and Taft, and urged by twelve of the most influential women's organizations." Any reference to the Children's Bureau naturally aroused a sense of pride in the Utah delegates, because of the cooperation of the Relief Society with the bureau. The President in her address reminded those present of the passage of the Eighteenth Amendment, the development of social agencies for the prevention of delinquency, including juvenile courts; the demand for trained policewomen; the participation of women on committees in the League of Nations; the work of a body of experts for the League in investigating Traffic in Women and Children, and many other important features of the work of the council. A resume of the character and purpose of each of the affiliated organizations was most interesting, of our organizations she said: "The Women's Relief Society and the Young Ladies' Mutual Improvement Society are important branches of the Church of the Latter-day Saints. The former has a membership of almost 60,000 engaged in welfare and cultural and educational development. The latter is composed of the young women from 14 to 20 years of age particularly, and has well developed programs of supervised recreational activities, character training is a fundamental part of the program." She said that "never in the history of the country has race and religious prejudices and corruption in public office been more evident." She called attention to the need of training for home-making, parenthood, law 140 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE observance and other problems that required intelligent consideration and action, and in which we should be vitally interested. The morning sessions of the conference in which delegates only were permitted to participate were opened by a salute to the flag. Matters of business were conducted with dispatch as outlined in the printed programs. Luncheon meetings, under the supervision of the various standing committees were held each day. The services of specialists in the various fields of endeavor were secured for these gatherings. Among others Mr. Bascom Johnson, who, having just returned from Geneva, gave an enlightening account of the work of a committee of experts, appointed by the League of Nations to study international traffic in women and children. "A notable and epoch making study which will undoubtedly influence many communities now sanctioning registration of prostitutes and segregation of vice, to abandon this unscientific practice and close the markets which stimulate the supply" said Mrs. Parker. The committee on immigration had given extensive study to that problem of separated families and the immigration law. The matter was considered at length in which many distressing cases were cited which would justify a modification of the law. Proposed methods of bringing relief to an unprecedented situation were placed before the convention. Space and time are insufficient to mention all of the valuable programs that were enjoyed, but the presence of such women as Mrs. Carrie Chapman Catt on Practical Problems in Patriotism, Dr. Josephine Baker and Miss Grace Abbott on Child Welfare, and Dr. Alice Hamilton and others is sufficient guarantee of a good program. The problem of re-organization absorbed the attention of the delegates throughout a number of sessions. Progress was the precedent set by the founders of the council. In keeping with this precedent, the present board of directors selected Mrs. Anna Garlin Spencer chairman of: a committee on re-organization. After a careful survey of the status of the member societies, which required two years time and much labor, Mrs. Spencer gave to the delegates assembled, five proposed plans for re-organization. After consideration of these plans by the body as a whole, a committee was chosen by the president, Mrs. Valeria H. Parker, to study the plans and report their recommendation to the assembly. Mrs. Martha H. Tingey, of the Young Ladies' Mutual Improvement Association, was a member of this committee. After careful deliberation the committee reported their recommendations which asked for a proposed modification of plan No. NATIONAL COUNCIL OF WOMEN 141 1, and No. 5, which were read and discussed by the convention, the final vote to be taken at an adjourned meeting of the council to be held in New York, February 7, 1928. A month's notice is required to change the constitution and by-laws. The evening sessions were open to the public. The presidents' night was especially interesting. National problems of interest to some of the representative women's organizations of the United States were presented by national presidents. Martha H. Tingey of the Y. L. M. I. A. Board was one of the speakers. The presidents of all affiliated organizations or their proxies had places on the platform and were introduced to the assembly. This meeting resulted in a better understanding of each other's problems. The peace program of the convention was reserved for the International Banquet which was held in the Astor Gallery of the hotel. The splendor of the scene was enhanced by the speakers table being on a raised platform, the background formed by an immense American flag in front of which were seated the officers of the council, including our own secretary Mrs. Amy Brown Lyman, the speakers, and special guests. Dr. Valeria Parker, toastmistress, was equally as charming in this capacity as president. The program is one long to be remembered. Dr. Alice Hamilton, member of the health committee, League of Nations, was the first speaker, followed by Dr. Nicholas Murray Butler, on "The Briand Treaty." Miss Jane Addams of Hull House, closed with an address "Women of the World." The Utah delegates to the convention were fortunate in having a table next to the platform; they were: Mrs. J. W. Knight, Mrs. Martha H. Tingey, Miss Clarissa Beesley, Miss May Anderson, Mrs. H. H. Rolapp, Mrs. Harvey Fletcher, Mrs. Howard Driggs, Mrs. W. H. Moyle, and Mrs. Howard Stoddard. Many social functions were arranged for the delegates, the concert under the auspices of the Federation of Music Clubs was a delightful affair. It was held in the elaborately decorated Empire Room. All numbers on the program were rendered by artists and much enjoyed. Mrs. Franklin D. Roosevelt, entertained at a buffet luncheon for Presidents of Member Societies of the Council at her home. Mrs. Tingey and I were among the guests, and enjoyed the hospitality of a most gracious and charming hostess, as well as a more intimate association with other presidents. It is a privilege of a high order to be able to attend one of the Conventions of the National Council of Women, ""Unto the Least of These"' By Frank C. Steele Martha Claydon stood in the door of the cottage watching the sun rise. For years she had snatched this cool, tranquil hour for herself. The Claydon family in the cottage, and the scores of other mill people in the cottages croweded along Montgomery street, still slept. The early morning stillness brooded over that long row of white and green, four-room houses, their east windows reflecting the rose-blazoned horizon. Far down the avenue intersecting Montgomery street, a street car rumbled, the first tram to make its appearance after the few fitful hours of traffic idleness between one and five o'clock. Back on the farm in Dodge county, long before the Claydons moved to Atlanta, Martha was always the first out of bed and first in the sweet-smelling pine woods. The sight of the sun, poised in its glory against the dew-cleansed sky, its light piercing the dense foliage and making the leaves and flowers sparkle like gems, was a constant inspiration to her. Unuttered dreams and longings it aroused, vague and fearful at first, later more sure and distinct. Martha reflected then and she reflected now: "This great sun brings to us each succeeding day a new birth with new opportunities and hopes. Henry, in there sleeping, doesn't know it. But it has come to me and I am thankful—this knowledge, this Voice whispering comfort and encouragement and an assurance of that Light which will some day come to me and mine, that Light and Peace which passeth all understanding." It was in the days of her young womanhood that Martha first heard that 'Peace of God which passeth all understanding." It was a precious hope dropped by a traveling preacher in Dodge county during a street meeting in the county seat. To Martha the simple message of this earnest, young man of God, was a revelation. She had clung to his promise like the shipwrecked mariner clings to a bit of driftwood. Peace! Martha had found little of it. Her wan face, old beyond its years, her hands, peeled and rough, her body worn by toil in the mill and the exacting duties of the family and home—these combined to tell the story of Martha Claydon. And yet there was a part of Martha that was not broken. This was her spirit and her spirit had never wavered. "T must cling to you, sun, for you keep the hope burning," mumbled Martha, standing in the doorway, her fingers clutching the door, her face encircled in a halo of sunlight. "UNTO THE LEAST OF THESE" 143 The waking world aroused her from her reverie. The sun was now a flaming ball far across the mass of roofs and chimneys and spires. A deep, hoarse whistle blew somewhere behind Montgomery street. Martha cast a last, longing look into the blue sky. Her hour was over. Like a mantle the spiritual dropped from her. She was now Martha Claydon, factory woman and wife and mother to those who loved her in their own way, but who did not, could not, understand. Martha, quietly and mechanically, lit the cordwood in the kitchen stove, made the coffee, mixed the biscuit and placed it in the oven, covered the bottom of a frying pan with slices of bacon and filled a glass pitcher with cane syrup. "Henry, get up, breakfast's nearly ready. Call Eva May, Sarah Jane and Wilbur. And Henry, please don't keep the food waiting. Get up now and wash." Minutes later the Claydons surrounded the white kitchen table bolting hot biscuit, black coffee and odorous shreds of pork. Their breakfast fare never changed. Martha had once tried to vary it in conformity to a schedule she read in the Sunday paper, but Henry had grumbled about "these new-fangled notions about eating" being expensive and not intended for mill folk. Martha never ventured to experiment again. The family ate in silence until Wilbur revived an old subject by saying: ''Ma's bin at it again, pa. She's bin lookin' at the sun—I kin tell by the look in her eyes." "Yes, I know, and you needn't be tellin' me, and Martha, you all need that extra hour's sleep and there you go wastin' it lookin' at the sun as though you were—well—a leetle bit— queer." "Go on, pa, I'm used to it." "Ma, be reasonable," rejoined the son, as he helped himself to another slice of bacon; "you're agettin' on in years and pa wants you to take life as easy as you kin. Instead, you git up to meet the sun. Gee, the sun to me means work, a heap o' work, six days in the week, fifty-two weeks in the year." '""My son, the sun to your mother means hope." There was a laugh. "Hope o' what, ma?" "Of deliverance." The rest of the Claydons dumbly surveyed the mother. Henry found words at last: "Ma, these notions are doin' yer no good. We're poor folk, ma, don't forgit that. God intended fer us to be poor. He loves the poor—" "Yes, pa, God loves the poor, perhaps, but he doesn't love poverty. He doesn't love to see His children live like beasts. He wants them to be free. Free, pa, not from honest work—I guess 144 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE I've done my share of that and I'm proud of it—but free from poverty, pa, poverty of body, of mind, of soul." Martha's face wore a suggestion of the warmth her heart felt as she tried to make them understand—understand just a little. "Ma, it sorta hurts to hear yer talk like that. Don't I want yer to go to the movies on Saturdays and to church—?" "Yes, Henry, you do the best you can for us. I'm not complaining. But I dislike the movies we get out here, pa, you know that, and the church—well, does the church give us poor folks very much to tie to?" "Rev. Chappell is a powerful preacher, Martha, and it's the old time preachin' we git, not the new stuff, they say they are handin' out in the Tabernacle every Sunday. I guess Bethel Baptist church is good enough fer me, Martha." "It won't be, pa, when the Light comes. And it's going to come, Henry, it's going to come." "Ma, hush; yer goin'—" "Shut up, Wilbur Claydon. Ma's all right and don't you get smart," cried Eva May, savagely, drowning the rasping tones of her brother. "Eva May's right, Wilbur. This isn't yer affair," said the father, turning to the youth, putting on his cap to leave. Then: "But, ma, folks are atalkin'." Martha made ne reply. Soon after Henry's parting suggestion the Claydon house was still. The blinds were drawn. The older members of the family, including the mother, were at their places in the mill. The younger ones soon would depart for the neighborhood school and Montgomery street would drowse through the long, sultry hours of the July day. Miles across the city on Fair street, later the same day, two young ladies were hastily removing hats and gloves in an effort to find relief from the pitiless heat. "Sister Fairley, this has been such a hard, wearisome day," one of the missionaries—for missionaries they were, an attractive girl just entering her twenties, cried languidly as she dropped into an easy chair and reached for a glass of water. "You know I have been wondering seriously today whether our work is worthwhile, whether or not we are doing any good." "Why, Sister Elliott, you must combat that spirit. Try hard not to be discouraged, I know many of the people we call on are indifferent, some are even rude, and the weather is hot." "Hot, hot—I should say it is hot! Really, Sister Fairley, I was on the verge of fainting several times while tracting Montgomery street. The sun beat down on those bare, little cottages in fiendish glee. Talk about misery! The houses I entered "UNTO THE LEAST OF THESE" 145 were like ovens, kiddies crying, mothers at the mill—O, it was awful." "You paint a vivid picture, Sister Elliott, and a true one. But remember, these poor folk have souls, they are our Father's children and entitled to the blessings of salvation through the gospel. There are thousands of honest, splendid souls among them," replied the senior missionary, earnestly. "They care nothing for our message. Poverty has killed every spark of interest in anything higher than their own simple, colorless life. It is useless to try to reason with them, they simply haven't the mental capacity or the desire to learn. I tell you, it is a waste of time going up one street and down another, giving away our tracts only to have them thrown away—wasted." "Thrown away, perhaps, but hardly wasted. In fact, I think very few of our tracts in this field are thrown away. Christ's message, you know, was rejected, yet who dare say that one precious act, one saving word of His, was in vain? Christ had a definite message to give to the world, so do we missionaries. - He was scorned, ridiculed, abused, cast out and slain—O, the tragedy, the pathos of it all!—yet he did not complain or murmur. No sacrifice was too great, no soul too lowly to be sent away without his ministration." "Sister Fairley, you are getting 'preachy' again, and I don't feel like I can endure it today. I guess it's wrong, but I simply can't tract in those mill areas and I won't. Why don't we try to interest people of education and culture, people who can grasp the principles of the gospel—I mean the better class?" "The better class! My dear, Christ knew no better class. They were all sheep who needed the Good Shepherd. Did he not say that inasmuch as ye 'did it unto the least of these, my children, ye did it unto me?' No, it is the experience of the church in all ages that it is the poor who receive the gospel, the rich rarely." "Please don't argue. I have my own views and am entitled to them and I maintain that we spend too much time working in the poor sections of the city. I can't do it. I never did like this field and this southern climate is killing." There was a silence. The younger girl had flung herself in a heap on the bed. There she broke into tears. In her hand was a letter from home. This she had forgotten in the surge of feelings aroused in the discussion of missionary work. Her companion, Julia Fairley, quietly went about the little apartment preparing for dinner. The practical Julia knew what a tasty meal with clean linen, sparkling china and silver, and a bouquet of freshly-cut roses from the backyard garden of "Grandma" Cobb, their landlady, could do in restoring the morale of this temperamental 146 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE girl, the president of the mission had entrusted to her two months ago. Lavaun aroused herself after her first flood of tears had dried on her troubled face. Adjusting her hair, she sat up and looked around the "chummy" little room.. "Don't forget your letter, Sister Elliott," reminded her companion, calling from the kitchenette, where she was slicing tomatoes. “You know the magic of a letter from home." Julia hoped it would be filled with encouragement. O, that the folks "back home" realized the importance of a newsy, cheerful letter to a missionary in the field! So thought Julia as she catitiously watched two nervous fingers break open the seal. As the younger girl began to read her face grew resentful and set. Without replacing the letter in the envelope, she thrust it in the pocket of her skirt and arose. Reaching for her hat she jerked it into place and before Julia could intercept her, she half ran from the room, down the long flight of stairs, through the front door and out into Fair street, now shadowy in the slowly gathering gloom. Martha was the first of the Claydon family to return home in the evening. She invariably left the mill in the vanguard of the army of hands which nightly poured from the huge, brick factory. It was a relief to Martha to get out where the air was pure and things were green and growing. Then the mother knew the supper problem faced her for while Betty Jane was a mighty clever girl for her age, there were still many culinary tasks she could not do. After making a few purchases of groceries at the chain store on the corner of Montgomery and Marietta streets, Martha picked her way along the sidewalk, dodging schools of playing children, home-bound workers, white and colored, and others milling up and down the now crowded street. The sun poured its stifling evening heat into Montgomery street and Martha wiped the moisture from her face as she neared her home to be welcomed by the younger Claydons. Reaching the porch Martha, prompted by habit, looked into the mail box, extracting a circular, a bill from a sewing machine company, a sample package of corn meal, a letter for Eva May, from a girl friend in Miami, and a little pamphlet which Martha at once recognized as a religious tract. THE SECOND COMING OF CHRIST AND EVENTS TO PRECEDE IT. By Elder B. H. Roberts Martha's eyes scanned the title page. It was only another of the many tracts flooding the country in an effort to stem the "UNTO THE LEAST OF THESE" 147 growing tide of doubt and open infidelity among thoughtful people weary of the vague, fantastic theories of life and death advanced by the sectarian ministry, she thought. Religion attracted Martha, but the churches repelled her. To the rational mind of this woman of the mill, the Church as she knew it was out of touch with life. Yearnings for knowledge on the vital things she had gone to numerous altars only to turn away in disappointment and disgust. She had begged for bread, they had given her a stone, a cold, unnatural, obsolete thing, as unsatisfying as the so-called rationalism she had heard preached in the uptown Forum. Yet hope had not died in the breast of Martha Claydon. That big, wonderful Something—that "Peace which passeth all understanding"'—would some day come to her. This thought was the peg on which she hung all her spiritual dreams. Martha read the opening paragraph of the tract. It had a different ring from any sitnilar literature that had come under her notice. "Of all events that will take place in the immediate future the. Most important to mankind is the glorious appearance of the Son of God," it read. MHastily turning the leaves, her eyes fell on the closing paragraph. The words were penetrating: "Despise not this testimony and warning, because he who bears it is a representative of a cause and people everywhere spoken against. Remember that Satan has ever opposed the work of God and those who labor to establish it. If he did so in former ages, will not this opposition be more fierce in the dispensation when the work of God is to become triumphant, resulting in the overthrow of the powers of darkness and binding them? Such, it would seem, are the plain dictates of reason— such are the facts. Be not deceived, then, reader, whoever you may be, by the infamous falsehoods in circulation about the Latter-day Saints, but examine these things with a prayerful heart that you may know of their truth and escape the calamity that shall befall those who 'reject the counsels of God against themselves, Following these impressive words were others announcing the meeting place of the church and an open air service Saturday night on the corner of Marietta street and Jackson avenue. The woman hesitated. Once she made a gesture of indifference as if anxious to cast aside the tract. But again she looked at it, then post it into the pocket of her checkered skirt and entered the ouse. That night when the little Claydons were enjoying their healthful, pre-midnight sleep and their older brothers and sisters were imbibing their usual week-end thrill at the movies, Martha read with care the "Mormon" tract from cover to cover. At her elbow was her Bible. She was still studying the booklet 148 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE when her husband sauntered in from his nightly ramble up Marietta street as far as the Star Pool Parlors. He gave his wife the customary greeting: "Come on, ma, let's get a few winks o' sleep 'fore mornin'." "Very well, pa." Ten minutes later the tiny white light in the Claydon cottage on Montgomery street was switched off. It was Saturday afternoon, the afternoon following the unceremonious exit of Lavaun Elliott from the missionary apartment. The previous night had been one of horrors for Julia Fairley, her companion. She had vainly searched the neighborhood. Then she notified the elders. They made inquiries and weighed the wisdom of advising mission headquarters and of enlisting the aid of the city police. Fatigued in body and apprehensive in mind, Julia had returned to the deserted apartment. It seemed hours, the lonely vigil for Lavaun, who had appeared, calm and uncommunicative, shortly before midnight. Few words had been said, the runaway missionary making an incidental though informative remark about the -play at the Atlanta. She had kissed her companion when she discovered a sympathetic arm encircling her and leading her into the tiny bedroom with its light softly shaded, and its air agreeably tinged with the odor of roses from a nearby garden. The afternoon wore on. There was no break in the heat wave, the evening papers telling of suffering in some parts of the city and unprecedented heat records in the downtown section. The missionary girls, their Saturday pressing and cleaning and writing done, were seated on the upstairs veranda, reading. Looking up from the current issue of the Liahona, Julia studied the ruminative face of her companion, absorbed in the Music and Drama page of the Journal. "There's a street meeting tonight, Sister Elliott, on the corner of Jackson and Marietta, and President Graves particularly desires that we be there to assist with the singing," she ventured. There was no answer. "We'll have an early supper, then take the car ahead of the elders in order to give us time to call at Sister Pearce's to see Lucy. She isn't at all well, you know, and they are really alarmed about her. "T'm not going to this street meeting," was the quick comeback. It was another challenge, for defiance was written in the eyes that met those of the senior missionary. "Such utter bondage—work, work every day with no relief, not even on a furiously hot Saturday. I can't endure this any longer, Sister Fairley, no recreation, a show once a month, a "UNTO THE LEAST OF THESE" 149 cottage meeting or something every time a great musician or actor comes to the city. What chance has one to improve? The folks at home expect a missionary to be so tremendously transformed on their return—they look for a superman or superwoman, almost. And one should take advantage of the opportunity to learn and to absorb a little culture. God expects us to. I've heard it preached. But here—what do we do? I needn't tell you, you know. Look at this announcement. Josef Hoffmann at the Auditorium tonight. O, how I've longed, even prayed, to hear him. Does President Graves know he is to play tonight? I'd say he doesn't. He is positively dead to art. And even if he did know he'd arrange a meeting or visit in the mill district among those simple, staring people. It's too much, Sister Fairley, they ask too much. Then, then I'm lonely and unhappy. Dad scolds me in his letters, you think I'm a lost sheep, or something else terrible, and the elders don't understand me." "T think I understand, Sister Elliott, your craving for art, music, the glamor of the world. These have their place—I love them, too—but more, O, so much more, I love this mission, this call to service among people who are starving for that Something we the Latter-day Saints alone possess—the gospel in its entirety, coupled with the holy priesthood to officiate in its ordinances. We have the Truth to give the world. That is why our work is the biggest, noblest, most vital in the world. I think you ought to go to the meeting tonight. I have been in the field a year and a half and these open-air meetings are wonderful faithpromoters, I have found." "A year and a-half! You lucky, lucky girl. No, it's final. I'm going to hear Hoffmann at the Auditorium, I may never get the chance again." "But, Sister Elliott, it would be breaking counsel to go to the concert. Please don't do it." The other girl smiled and behind that smile seemed to loom the challenge of the evil one. "Tt doesn't matter, Sister Fairley. See this letter? It is to the president asking either for a release to go home or a transfer to New York. I simply can't carry on here with everyone suspicious of me and talking about me, and as for my work—it hasn't counted for that." And she snapped her finger. Downstairs, the door bell rang. Down the hall shuffled the feet of "Grandma" Cobb. The door opened, a person entered, mounted the stairs, approached the door of the missionary apartment and rapped. The girls came in from the veranda and faced a woman in a plainly cut summer dress of muslin and a hat of last year's vintage. A spray of violets in her dress suggested a certain daintiness. She carried a sun shade. The hands that held it 150 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE were not hands that would have caught the eye of an artist, unless he sought a model for honesty and toil. Her eyes were clear and frank; her voice proved soft and warm and glowed with a richness that marked her as superior. "Good evening, ladies," the visitor said. "Good evening. Won't you please come in?" said Julia. "Thank you." She was shown a chair in the little living room. "Are you the 'Mormon' missionary girls?" "Why, yes, we are proud to say we are." "Then you are the girls I came miles in the heat to see." "It is an oppressive day. Won't you have a drink?" "Thank you—yes." The visitor drank the water during a somewhat awkward silence. "The water was refreshing. It was thoughtful of you, miss." Then: "I won't keep you waiting longer. Friday—that was yesterday—I came home from the mill and found in the mail box a little tract, 'The Second Coming of Christ.' I was about to throw it away when my eyes became riveted on the closing paragraph and something seemed to burn within me. So I kept it and read it and reread it that evening. I read it again this morning and resolved to find the 'Mormon' missionaries. I could hardly wait for the tract sounded like the sermon of a young preacher I heard thirty years ago in Dodge county, my old home. I found your Church, but it was locked. A boy directed me here." She stopped and wiped her eyes. Then continued: "T knew I was in the right place as soon as I saw this young lady"—and she pointed to Lavaun; "for, you see, I had a dream last night. In this dream I saw this young lady tracting our street, going from house to house, and becoming very disheartened and miserable. When she came to my little home she paused and was about to pass by, apparently thinking we were not home as our blinds were drawn. But she didn't. She put a tract in our mail box, then passed on down the street for home. Yes, Miss, you are the girl who came very close to withholding from us this wonderful gospel." "And you are from what street?' Lavaun faltered « fusedly. The girl's face was white and drawn and she clutched at the newspaper in her hands. "Montgomery street." "Montgomery street!" © "Yes, Miss, but don't feel so badly about what I said. You did call at our door and that is what interests us." "And your name?' asked Lavaun. | "Claydon—Martha el And you were sent by Go to my door." "UNTO THE LEAST OF THESE" 151 "Martha Claydon," Lavaun seemed to be wrapped in thought. Then her face cleared, and in an outburst of relief, and joy, she ran to the puzzled woman in the chair and taking her hands and kissing them, cried: "If you are Martha Claydon from Dodge county, my father preached the sermon that started you thinking about the gospel. For I have heard him speak of your father who once saved him from a mob. My dear Mrs. Claydon, you say God sent me to your door. Surely, He sent you to mine, sent you for reasons known fully to Him, known partially to my dear companion.' It was Julia's turn now to receive the young missionary's embrace. "T''ll be ready any time to catch the car for the street meeting, Sister Fairley," Lavaun said, smiling through her tears. "What a remarkable day it has been!" Julia exclaimed. "It has become a sacred day to me," said Lavaun reverently. Then: "Sister Claydon, we want you to help us with the singing at our street meeting tonight." And she did. Tribute to Eliza R. Snow By Phyllis Hodgson "Though the sun in pearly glory Lights the eastern skies of Heaven With a rose and golden brilliance, Shining through a violet vapor, Sending shafts of golden brightness On an earth empalled in shadow, Wrapped in solitary darkness; _ Still the world sleeps on unheeding In an irresponsive slumber: Or impelled by earthly toiling Finds no time to see its splendor, Not intent upon its wonder Nor exultant in its glory. For a million suns have risen And the world has seen their grandeur *Til it values not nor sees it. Lives have come and lives departed In such infinite succession That the world heeds not nor hearkens: So I sing a song of tribute; 152 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Of a life that dawned unheeded, Of a life of light and beauty; Sing of her who served her people With a tender, sweet compassion, With a loving, true devotion, Lived a life of inspiration. With the passing of the seasons In their swift successive silence Came the spring of life-alluring, Glowing in its youth and beauty Bright with joyousness, and singing, Crowned her with the charm of springtime, Gave her health and gave her courage High ideals, sublime ambition, That the toils of life might find her Strong, to bear their many burdens. Summer came and found her ready. Toiled she through the heated mid-day, Through the scorching heat of summer, By the gentle breeze untempered. Never did she pause nor falter, Never did her courage waiver, Bore she burdens uncomplaining; Brought she forth the fruits of autumn ~ Of a seed that lives forever, Bulwarks of an unseen kingdom, Reaching far beyond the ages, In a vast procession leading Far into eternal regions. Softly stole the winter round her, Crowned her brow with silver whiteness Like the sun on gleaming snowflakes; And the passing of the winter Was serene and sweet, untroubled, Like some melody resounding Sweet and clear, in ling'ring cadence, Grows more faint and dimly echoes, Leaves its memory e'er the hearers Are aware that it is going— Lost in silence of the ages, But to rise in strains celestial In some vast eternal kingdom. The Flowers' Mission A Parable (Dedicated to the General and Stake Relief Society Boards) By Lucy May Green Near the center of a beautiful valley, not far from the shores of a vast inland sea, the Master planted a harvest field, The soil was rich and fertile, there was plenty of water, and there was every promise of an abundant harvest. The servants of the Master called many laborers into the harvest field, some worked with vigor and zeal, others quickly became tired, and sought the shade of the many trees that grew by the wayside. Many did not work at all, some were sick and sad, others were easily discouraged, and some were very poor. The servants of the Master who were in direct charge of the harvest field took counsel together, for they realized the gravity of the situation. The harvest truly was great but the laborers were indeed few. Unto the soul of their leader the Master gave this message: "Truly the harvest is great and the workers faint by the wayside. Plant for them a garden of sweet smelling flowers wherein they can rest sometimes, enjoy the fragrance of the roses and lilies and receive inspiration and renewed strength for their work in the harvest field." The servants ot the Master accepted their leader's message, and the garden was prepared and flowers were planted: therein. First came the rose with her exquisite perfume, whose beauty of form and color and regal bearing proclaimed her Queen of the summer. Close to the rose was planted the tall white lily, with its heart of gold, and its chalice ever open to receive and hold the dew from heaven. Its sweetness and purity charmed all who saw it. From His garden above the Master transplanted the geranium, sturdy and strong, blooming incessantly, and bringing its message of cheer alike to rich and poor. Next was chosen the dainty four o'clock, of various color, its blossoms opening at precisely the same hour each afternoon and closing next morning with like precision. The peony was included for its decorative value, its richness of form and color, its sturdy strength and hardy endurance. In a corner grew the fragrant mignonette dressed in quiet, sombre colors, but dearly loved by the bees for its honey, and by all for its exquisite odor. A tall lilac bush stood in the corner, the wind rustling through its leaves, made sweet music and stirred up its elusive spicy perfume. 154 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE A bed of canterburv bells charmed the eyes and ears of all with their dainty grace and fairy-like music. The dahlia was chosen for its sturdy strength, its hardy growth and its multitude of many colored blossoms. In many shady corners grew the lily of the valley, its waxen flowers oft hidden by its leaves, its presence only betrayed by its delicious odor. On a trellis grew a vine of great beauty, whose flowers were a source of strength to the bees, birds and all who rested in the shade of the delicate honeysuckle. From the greenhouse the Master chose the carnation with its ethereal loveliness, its dainty symmetry of form and its Jasting qualities. In many a hardy clump grew the shasta daisy, with its fringed petals, its face turned to the heavens, and its heart of living gold. Modest, sweet, of exquisite shape and velvety texture, like unto the dainty face of a tiny child, the pansy stood, emblem of sweet and beautiful thoughts. Of heaven's own blue, flecked with yellow of the sun, small, dainty, but once known is always remembered the for-getme-not. Tall, stately, its golden head ever turned to the sun, and its wealth of flowers enjoyed by all, the hardy golden glow was planted. From the fields the Master chose a humble flower of many colored bloom, its rich, glossy foliage, wealth of blossom, and profusion of seed loved by everyone, the hollyhock. The petunia border was truly a delight with its hardy blossoms and its spicy oriental perfume. From the hillside nearby was transplanted a tall pine tree, the wind blowing through its branches made sweet music, and the hearts of the toilers were made glad as they rested in the shade of the evergreen. The chrysanthemum was brought from the Orient with its choice tints, its feathery foliage, and curving petals, its blooming season lasting far into the winter. Many other flowers bloomed in the garden. These blossoms flowered, filling the air with sweetness and beauty, then were transplanted elsewhere. The garden was fenced with Faith, Hope and Charity. Its fence posts were unselfishness, and united efforts and its open gates were Service unto all mankind. The Master came unto the garden and He saw that it was good, and unto the hearts of the flowers He whispered this message: "In the midst of my harvest field this garden has been planted to bring joy and comfort to all who labor therein. Go! Fill your mission, my flowers, teach them the joy of service. THE FLOWERS' MISSION 155 With your music tell them of the Father's love, bring unto their lives sweetness, strength and beauty." So the flowers are filling their mission of love and often the workers in the harvest field rest in the garden, and the flowers go to all corners of the harvest field, and wherever they go, the tired workers raise their heads refreshed and with renewed courage continue their labors. The Master looking down from above sheds His divine approval upon all. +e oe This parable is an appreciation of the faithful labors of the General and Stake Boards of the Relief Society. The harvest field is the Church, the servants of the Master represent the Priesthood, the laborers are the Relief Society workers, the garden is the Society itself, and the flowers are the General and Stake officers. Carry a Basketful of Happiness By A. C. A. Dean Hewer of Hobart, Tasmania Carry a sackful of happiness Wherever you have to go; Fill it up full to the very brim, So that it may overflow. And everyone you may chance to meet Just pass them a handful out, Be sure and do it with smiling face Whatever you are about. Your sack will be like the widow's cruse No emptier day by day, And all who meet you will love you well As you go along your way. ' You need not be rich in worldly goods To carry this well filled sack, For happiness comes to a mind at peace Whatever of wealth we lack. Then carry a sackful of happiness Up and down your daily road; And you will find that each handful helps To lighten many a load. A cheerful giver is loved of God, O this I am always told— So joyfully pass out happiness And reap a hundred fold! Notes from the Field Amy Brown Lyman Aleppo Branch, Syria: A most interesting letter has just been received from Mrs Mary R. Booth, president of the Aleppo Branch Relief Society. Accompanying the letter is an excellent report and a photograph RELIEF SOCIETY OFFICERS, ALEPPO BRANCH, SYRIA of the officers. Mrs. Booth states that this picture was taken in front of the stage curtain upon which is painted the Hill Cumorah, and which was used for the drama played by their local talent on September 22, 1927, in commemoration of the coming forth of the Book of Mormon President James E. Talmage, who has just returned from the European Mission, where he has served as president for the past three years, has, by request, furnished us with the following few paragraphs concerning the work of President and Mrs. Joseph W. Booth: "In far away Syria, on one of the hills of Aleppo, is a little community of Latter-day Saints who constitute the main branch of the Armenian Mission. They were brought to this place from Aintab, Turkey, to escape the frightfulness of Turkish misrule, tyranny, and outrageous persecution. These and a few who are isolated in other towns number about one hundred and eighty-five NOTES FROM THE FIELD 157 souls, all of whom are refugees or children of refugees. With few exceptions these people are housed in khans, or walled enclosures with living rooms along three sides of the quadrangular open court; and these quarters are rented for them by the Church. "Many of these good people are skilled in the making of rugs, carpets, toweling, cloth, embroidery and fine needlework, which constitute their principal products; but they have to meet keen competition and find but a limited market. Moreover, machinery is displacing the hand-looms and prices are low. "In the matter of Church training the community is a marvel and stands as a monument of praise to Mission President Joseph W. Booth, and his capable wife, Sister Mary R. Booth, whose home town is Alpine, Utah. In the work of the Church auxiliaries the people show ability such as would be creditable in the wards of Zion. A Book of Mormon drama, written and staged by the members, was presented in a very impressive and artistic way during a recent visit by the writer of these lines; and the appreciative audience comprised business and professional people of Aleppo in addition to the Church members. "President Joseph W. Booth has given seventeen years of his life to missionary service in Turkey and Syria. His wife has shared the labors and vicissitudes of two long missionary periods with him. He has endured the ordeal of black smallpox, as a result of which dread disease two of our missionaries have been buried, one at Aaintab, Turkey, the other at Haifa, Palestine. President Booth has been a true pastor to these people, who verily have come up through great tribulation. He has proved himself a tender and selfsacrificing shepherd to the harassed flock; and he loves his sheep. Brother and Sister Booth have the confidence and respect of bankers, professional men, consular officers, and of the influential people of the communities wherein they are known, not only in Aleppo, but in other Syrian towns as well. For years past these devoted servants have been the only missionaries laboring among the Armenians. They confidently hope that the work will be extended into southern Syria and Palestine, and that other missionaries will be sent to assist." French Mission: Mrs. Venus R. Rossiter, president of the Relief Societies of the French mission, with headquarters at Geneva, Switzerland, writes, among other things, that the Relief Society work is progressing nicely throughout the mission. Two new societies were organized during the past year, one at Besancon, France, and the other at Brussels, Belgium. All of the societies have held one or more bazaars during the year. Several of them have bought linen and silver sacramental sets, and are helping to pay for pianos in their respective branches. All cases of need coming to the attention 158 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE of the Relief Society have been amply taken care of during the year. Southern States Mission. Relief Society women of the Southern States have, during the past year, furnished food and clothing to many who were in need. Special efforts have been made by them to have the sick properly cared for either in the homes or in hospitals. The result has been that special visits to the sick and home-bound have increased 1,454 over last year. In the country districts, the women who live in isolated places are making quilts, towels and children's clothing for the needy. In Durham, North Carolina, the Relief Society members are active in helping to raise means to purchase a building site for a chapel. The Relief Society officers cooperated with the Sunday School officers in making the Christmas celebrations and Christmas trees attractive and enjoyable for the old as well as the young. They also took baskets to the needy on Christmas day. Officers in several of the Societies are doing home missionary work in the way of visiting the nearby branches for the purpose of instructing and aiding the members to make their own work more efficient, and therefore of more benefit. Blaine Stake. The Hagerman ward Relief Society, according to the Red Cross County Nurse, is leading the whole county in health work. Four clinics were held there last year, as a result of which 75 children received care. The clinic workers consisted of 2 doctors and 4 nurses, assisted by the Relief Society presidency. Clinic WORKERS, HAGERMAN RELIEF SOCIETY NOTES FROM THE FIELD 159 Cache and Logan Stakes. At Christmas time, one of the business establishments contributed $25 to the Cache and Logan stakes, to be used to entertain some of the under-privileged children of the two stakes during the holiday season. The manager of one of the motion picture show houses reduced the price of a regular 50c show to 10c, and a large bag of candy and nuts was given, in addition, to each of the 200 children from the two stakes as they left the theatre. These children were very happy as it was the first time some of them had had the privilege of going to this particular theatre. Another business firm contributed several boxes of new merchandise, consisting of shoes, coats, underwear, etc., to the extent of $155, actual cost to the merchant. The Professional and Business Women's Club also clothed 5 children as their Christmas contribution. The Logan stake reports that since the Priesthood meetings have been changed to Sunday morning, they have made an extra endeavor to have all the ward Relief Society meetings changed back to Tuesday from Monday evening, and they are glad to report that practically every ward was pleased to make the change. This stake, at the request of the local Priesthood, has, for several years, been holding Relief Society meetings in connection with the Priesthood on Monday night. It is gratifying to know that they are now meeting on the regular Relief Society day. Rigby Stake. President Clarissa S. Williams is in receipt of an attractive cook book sent with the compliments of the Rigby stake board. The book is bound with an oil-cloth cover, and contains the following sections: abbreviations of weights and measures, food values, menus, table etiquette, and a large variety of tested recipes. The board is expecting to use a part of the proceeds from the sale of the book to help bring a public health nurse into the country. The stake is to be congratulated upon this enterprise which will react in the interest of the health of the community. Minidoka Stake (Hazelton Ward). During last fall the Hazelton ward, Minidoka stake, held a contest to obtain subscriptions for the Relief Society Magazine. The Relief Society members were divided into two groups of 11 women each, under the chairmanship of Mrs. Maud Ellingford and Mrs. Christina Peterson, and every enrolled member became an active agent for the Magazine. In connection with solicitiny subscriptions each side made a quilt, and the side which finished its quilt first received, from the Relief Society, two subscriptions for the Magazine, to be sent complimentary to two non-subscribers. As a result of this contest 70 subscriptions were sent to the Magazine office from the Hazelton ward, which is comprised of about 40 Latter-day Saint families. The losing side entertained the winners at a hot chicken dinner, program and dance. 160 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Si. Joseph Stake. A successful teachers' convention was held in St. Joseph stake on November 29, 1927, under the direction of the president, Mrs, Ethel D. Payne. A feature of the program was a demonstration by Solomonville ward of teachers' visits, showing the difference in the results obtained by unprepared and prepared teachers. There were also excellent addresses on the work of the visiting teacher, and a special musical number was given by Layton ward. Gifts were presented to each of the 4 teachers who had served in St. Joseph stake for 44 years, and to a member who had belonged to the Society for 61 years. This is the Day By Mrs. Ellen L. Jakeman Daughter of Laman, come from the wilderness, Braid your black tresses, and crown your dark brow; This is the day that was promised your fathers;— List to his voice for, God speaks to you now! Come from the forest and come from the mountain,— The sin of revolt,—the dark vale of sadness;— Put on the beautiful garments of virtue, Drink at Faith's fountain with joy and great gladness. Comes His bright spirit, your sad soul alluring,— Lift up your heads ye oppressed and rejoice,— Burns the sweet fire your Red-dross consuming, Fair shall your face be! Oh, lift up your voice! Rich were the promises made to the prophets, When you have turned from sin fully away; All hearts shall join in a paean of gladness,— Return of the Child from the truth gone astray. Golden plates taken from sacred Cumorah, Furnished the key to your fate's tangled skein; Precious the writers,—thrice precious the message You shall wander in darkness,—ah, never again! Earth shall be pure,—gone they that oppressed thee; Anguish and sin passed forever away. Comes from God's presence, Holy Jerusalem! We know not the Hour, but this is the Day. Daughter of Laman, come from the wilderness, Braid your black tresses, and crown your dark brow; Singing hosanna,—an heir and a princess;— Thou art the blossom on Joseph's rich bough. Lehi and Nephi, Mormon,—the prophets, Your fathers, your brethren, exult in His power! Oh, with what joy we will welcome your coming! This the great Day is,—God hasten the Hour! Guide Lessons for May LESSON I Theology and Testimony (first Week in May) Yu DISPENSATION OF THE FULNESS OF TIMES (CONTINUED) OBJECTIVES OF THE DISPENSATION Introduction: An objective means the purpose or aim, and in this lesson it is to mean the purpose or aim which the Lord evidently had in view for the work of this dispensation. The statement of each objective is followed by some scriptural evidence which the student may profitably add to by reading. The comments are not to be taken as doctrine but as material to arouse interest and direct thought. Two Objectives: There are five evident objectives of the dispensation and there may be others. The objectives considered may not be just in the order of their importance or sequence. The arrangement is a study device and seems consistent.
The First Objective: This was the flooding of the world with light and truth. "Truth shall spring out of the earth and righteousness shall look down from heaven." (Psalms 85:11). Thus we have the light of truth coming from above and below, as it was in the days of the deluge when "all the fountains of the great deep" were "broken up and the windows of heaven were opened." (Genesis 7:11). "For the earth shall be filled with the knowledge of the glory of the Lord, as the waters cover the sea." (Habakkuk 2:14). "They shall not hurt nor destroy in all my holy mountains: for the earth shall be full of the knowledge of the Lord as the waters cover the sea." (Isaiah 11:9). The Lord himself, while speaking in Palestine, declared the flooding of the earth with the light of truth. "And this gospel of the kingdom shall be preached in all the world for a witness unto all nations and then shall the end come." (Matt. 24:14). No one will claim that these words of Jesus were fulfilled during the Dispensation of the Meridian of Times. Many nations and millions of people have never yet heard the Gospel and moreover the last clause of the above quotation indicates that the work was to be done in the Dispensation of the Fulness of Times.
For the extent and unescapableness of this flood of light and truth we look to modern revelation: "For verily the voice of the Lord is unto all men, and there is none to escape and there is no eye that shall not see, neither ear that shall not hear, neither heart that shall not be penetrated. (Doc. And Cov., Section 1:2). No man is the author of the above marvelous utterance; they are the words of the resurrected Redeemer after his reglorification with the Father in the celestial kingdom.
The Second Objective: This second objective was the organizing and the building up of an institution for the spreading and utilizing of the light of truth. It was to be a means for the elevation of man and for the acceleration of man's advancement towards his Maker. It was to be an instrument of education for the living and for the salvation of the dead. That the setting up of this kingdom was one of the objectives of this dispensation is made evident by the following: "But in the last days it shall come to pass that the mountain of the house of the Lord shall be established in the tops of the mountains and it shall be exalted above the hills, and people shall flow unto it." (Micah 4:1). This being the Dispensation of the Fulness of Times it would include "the last days." "In the days of these kings shall the God of heaven set up a kingdom which shall never be destroyed." (Daniel 2:44). The declaration of the Lord, through his prophet Daniel, proclaims a kingdom of durability, a promise not made concerning any kingdom in any of the preceding dispensations, and there would be no other place for it than in the Dispensation of the Fulness of Times. But the most indisputable evidence that the building of a church was one of the divine objectives of the dispensation is found in the word of the Lord himself: "And verily, verily, I say unto you, that this church have I established and called forth out of the wilderness." (Doc. And Cov., 33:5). And that the building up of a church was a part of this great objective we have evidence in the following: "Wherefore, if you shall build up my church, upon the foundation of my gospel and my rock, the gates of hell shall not prevail against you." (Doc. And Cov., 18:5).
The Third Objective: The third evident objective was the production of Christian character. Men and women, youths and maidens, boys and girls of Christian faith with Christian ideals and Christian conduct—making up a Zion community that will fulfil the words of the
GUIDE LESSONS FOR MAY 163
prophet: "And many nations shall come and say, Come, let us go up to the mountain of the Lord, and to the house of the God of Jacob; and he will teach us of his ways, and we will walk in his paths." (Micah 4:2).
There can be no propaganda for or advertisement of any institution like that of its products.
The Fourth Objective: The fourth evident objective was the reaching back with gospel privileges for those who have passed to the great beyond without these blessings—the "salvation for the dead." This objective was declared to the prophet Joseph early in the dispensation. "Behold I will reveal unto you the Priesthood by the hands of Elijah the prophet, before the coming of the great and dreadful day of the Lord, and he shall plant in the hearts of the children the promises made to the fathers and the hearts of the children shall turn to their fathers: If it were not so, the whole earth would be utterly wasted at its coming." (Doc. And Cov., 2: 1, 2, 3). This divine announcement carries with it the promise of authority or power. It was to come by the hand of Elijah a resurrected prophet. His visit should be before the coming of the Lord in judgment. He was to put into the hearts of the children an interest in their parents. They were to learn of the promises made to their ancestors and be inspired to an active interest in their welfare. This perfectly altruistic work for the dead was to be the one thing that would keep the world in a condition that would prevent the necessity for its utter destruction. Through this work the world would preserve a fitness to survive.
The Fifth Objective: The fifth objective of this dispensation was the making of a dispensation which would cover everything except the time, of each and all of the other dispensations, hence the name: The Dispensation of the Fulness of Times. (See Compendium, pages 144, 145, 146).
Questions
1. Name five of the evident objectives of The Dispensation of the Fulness of Times.
2. Tell of the unescapableness of the deluge of truth and light.
3. Give scriptural proof that the building of a church was a divine objective of this dispensation.
4. How is the third objective of this dispensation made evident by the following: "Zion will be built on this continent?" (Articles of Faith, "Zion Is the pure in heart.")
164 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
5. Which is the antecedent of the pronoun "its" in the last line of Doc. And Cov. 2:3?
6. When Jesus the Redeemer said: "I am the resurrection and the life," in which did he express the greater interest, the living or the dead?
7. Discuss the following: Without interest in ancestors a people grow unfit to survive.
8. State the fifth evident objective of this dispensation.
LESSON II Work and Business (Second Week in May)
Teachers' Topic for May—The Home
FINANCES OF THE HOME Cooperation in the earning and the spending of money.
1. Economic security is dependent upon two factors: a. The nature and the amount of the income. A family whose income is based upon seasonal occupations must necessarily plan more carefully than one whose income is fixed and regular. When children become earning factors they should be taught to willingly contribute to the family income. b. The manner in which the income is spent. The women of the world have to do with the spending of over 80% of the income of the world. What a great responsibility rests upon women in this respect. There should be careful management of the family income. A budget of income and expenditure should be kept. We should live within our income and avoid debt.
2. Moderation should be exercised in dress, foods, and recreation; false standards should be avoided.
3. The value of allowances as to wife and children; the right of children to spend for themselves part of their earned money; the meaning of the value of the dollar; the importance of proper spending; the benefits of saving; the virtue of thrift, etc., may be properly discussed.
GUIDE LESSONS FOR MAY 165
LESSON III Literature (Third Week in May)
CHARLES G. D. ROBERTS
Charles G. D. Roberts, Canada's outstanding poet, appears to have descended from a nest of song birds as "the Roberts family of Fredricton, New Brunswick, is Canada's most distinguished literary family." He was the eldest son. His birth occurred January 10, 1860, at Douglas, North County, New Brunswick, Canada. He was educated at the Fredricton Collegiate School and at the University of New Brunswick where he took his B. A. Degree in 1879 with honors. In 1881 he was made a Master of Arts and in 1906 received the honorary LL. D. He appears to have specialized in mental and moral science and political economy. He was twenty-one years old when he married Miss Mary I. Fenety, daughter of the Queen's Printer of New Brunswick. In 1883 and 1884 he was editor of the Week, Toronto, Ontario; in 1885 to 1888, Professor of English and French literature in Kings College, Windsor, Nova Scotia; in 1888 to 1895 Professor of Economics in the same college.
Canadians look back to the Confederation, the fiftieth anniversary of which they celebrated last year, as a very important epoch in their history, and the anniversary of that event is like our Fourth of July, a red letter day in their history. Roberts rose to prominence and became popular because he was everywhere hailed as the "Voice" of the Canadian Confederacy. To use the words of J. D. Logan, "he became the voice of one crying in the wilderness trying to make straight the paths of the Canadian poet." Prior to this time the people had delighted in the perfection of Mr. Roberts verse, for it had been with Canada as with all new countries, they had produced much verse which was of little moment because it lacked artistic structure and finish. Now they discovered that their finished versifier was prophet as well as poet. He called to his countrymen in the following language:
O Child of Nations, giant-limbed, Who stand'st among the nations now Unheeded, unadorned, unhymned, With unanointed brow—
How long the ignoble sloth, how long The trust in greatness not thine own? Surely the lion's brood is strong To front the world alone!
166 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
But Mr. Roberts did not remain in Canada to follow up his clarion call. An offer from New York took him there where he became Associate Editor of the Illustrated American. Since that time it has not been necessary for him to do either academic or editorial work. Consequently, he has devoted himself to writing and publishing many books which have added duly to his fame. When the last century closed he had written and published seven books of verse. In 1901 he selected what he regarded as his best poems and published them in one volume. This, of course, is his outstanding volume of poetry. He lived in London, England, a good many years and obtained the regard of both English and American critics to a larger extent than any other writer of Canadian verse. In September, 1914, he enlisted as a trooper in the Legion of Frontiersmen. Later he was promoted to a captaincy in the King's Liverpool Regiment, and still later he attained to the rank of major. We have a poem called "Cambrai and Marne" that grew out of this experience. A few stanzas will indicate the graphic power of his description:
Between the hedges and the town The cursing squadrons we rode down; To stay them we outpoured our blood Between the beetfields and the wood.
In that red hell of shrieking shell Unfaltering our gunners fell; They fell, or ere that day was done, Beside the last unshattered gun.
Our feet, astonished, learned retreat, Our souls rejected still defeat; Unbroken still, a lion at bay, We drew back grimly from Cambrai.
In blood and sweat, with slaughter spent, They thought us beaten as we went, Till suddenly we turned, and smote The shout of triumph in their throat.
By cumbered road and desperate ford How fled their shamed and harassed horde! Shout, Sons of Freemen, for the day When Marne so well avenged Cambrai!
GUIDE LESSONS FOR MAY 167
In 1925 Dr. Roberts returned to Canada where he was made President of the Toronto branch of the Canadian Authors' Association. Last summer he attended a convention of western poets held in the city of Seattle, Washington. He was, no doubt, the outstanding figure of that convention. With many years of achievement crowning his snowy locks, he stood amongst them, the dean of Canadian Letters, and the young authors recognized in him one who had had much experience in life; one who had inspired an entire group of Canadian writers; in fact, the one who was the leading spirit and inaugurator of the first renaissance in Canadian Literature.
With all due respects to the many subjects Dr. Roberts has made use of in the large number of poems he has written his critics are rather generally agreed that his most penetrating work is evident in his treatment of nature. Consequently the remainder of the lesson will be devoted to that theme. In such poems as "Hill-Top Songs," "The Good Earth," "On the Road," "The Unknown City," "The Place of His Rest," "When the Cloud Comes Down the Mountain," and "Under the Pillars of the Sky," we have excellent examples of the poet's penetration and appreciation of the great outdoor world.
From "Hill-Top Songs" we quote the following:
When the lights come out in the cottages Along the shores at eve, And across the darkening water The last pale shadows leave;
And up from the rock-ridged pasture slopes The sheep-bell tinklings steal, And the folds are shut, and the shepherds Turn to their quiet meal;
And even here, on the unfenced height, No journeying wind goes by, But the earth-sweet smells, and the home-sweet sounds, Mount, like prayer, to the sky;

From "The Good Earth" we quote:
The smell of burning weeds Upon the twilight air; The piping of the frogs From meadows wet and bare;

168 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
O spring wind, sweet with love And tender with desire, Pour into veins of mine Your pure, impassioned fire!
O waters running free With full, exultant song, Give me, for outworn dream, Life that is clean and strong!
O springing things of green, O waiting things of bloom, O winging things of air, Your lordship now resume!
From "On the Road" we quote:
Ever just over the top of the next brown rise I expect some wonderful thing to flatter my eyes.
"What's yonder?" I ask of the first wayfarer I meet. "Nothing!" he answers, and looks at my travel-worn feet.
"Only more hills and more hills, like the many you've passed, With rough country between, and a poor enough inn at the last."
But already I am a-move, for I see he is blind, And I hate that old grumble I've listened to time out of mind.
At the crest of the hill I shall hail the new summits to climb. The demand of my vision shall beggar the largess of time.
For I know that the higher I press, the wider I view, The more's to be ventured and vision, in worlds that are new.
From "The Unknown City" we quote:
Cool are its streets with waters musical And fountains' shadowy fall.
With orange and anemone and rose, And every flower that blows Of magic scent or unimagined dye, Its gardens shine and sigh.
Its chambers, memoried with old romance And faery circumstance,— From any window love may lean some time For love that dares to climb.
GUIDE LESSONS FOR MAY 169
This is that city babe and seer divined With pure, believing mind.
This is the home of unachieved emprise. Here, here the visioned eyes Of them that dream past any power to do, Wake to the dream come true.
Here the high failure, not the level fame, Attests the spirit's aim.
Here is fulfilled each hope that soared and sought Beyond the bournes of thought.

John W. Garvin, who has written extensively of Canadian poets has this to say about Mr. Roberts' writings: "No other writer known to me has more intimately associated his mind and spirit with every object and phase of nature. His poetic descriptions are vividly real, and exquisite in beauty of expression, whilst his animal stories in felicitous literary English, in accuracy of particulars, in intensity of dramatic interest, are beyond criticism."
Questions and Problems
1. In what particular does Charles G. D. Roberts resemble our New England poets?
2. What does he mean when he writes: "Surely the lion's brood is strong to front the world alone!"
3. Select some colorful words from the extracts printed.
4. Poets often make use of contrast: Select some contrast in color in the line: "With orange and anemone and rose."
5. Tell of some people you know who are always expecting to see "just over the top of the next brown rise some wonderful thing to flatter" their "eyes."
6. Do you know any people who see nothing except "more hills and more hills" * * * "with rough country between and a poor enough inn at the last?"
7. If you know these two sorts of people, which would you prefer being? Why?
LESSON IV Social Service (Fourth Week in May)
THE CHILD—STUDY COURSE LESSON 5
The Child's Moral Development
Based on Chapter V: "The Child: His Nature and His Needs"
We come now, in this review of the different phases of
170 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
the child's growing personality, to a consideration of his moral development. Dr. Henry Neumann, who wrote this splendid chapter, is an international authority on the subject. He is instructor in the Ethical Culture School, New York City, and author of Moral Values and Secondary Education; Teaching American Ideals Through Literature and Education for Moral Growth.
A. WHAT IS CHARACTER? (Pages 89-91)
Character is defined as: "The sum of qualities or features, by which a person or a thing is distinguished from others; the aggregate of distinctive mental and moral qualities belonging to an individual or a race as a whole; the stamp of individuality impressed by nature, education, or habit; that which a person or thing really is; essential peculiarity; kind, sort; nature."
The question then is: How is character formed? The first principle of character development is this: character is affected by a multitude of factors—heredity, general health, food, home life, street life, school life, newspapers, movies, parents, companions, habits of thought, occupations, etc. To ensure a desirable character in a child, therefore, parents and teachers must control all of the factors which affect his moral development directly or indirectly. "There is no such thing as a distinct training in character apart from the rest of the child's development."
Questions
1. What is the practical difference between character and physique, intelligence, temperament. Personality, individuality, etc.?
2. Show, by a few examples, how the child's moral development is influenced by: a. Ancestral stock (heredity). b. Children's diseases. c. Nutrition. d. Sleeping habits. e. Companions. f. School. g. Brothers and sisters, companions, etc. h. Books, newspapers, etc. i. Commercialized recreation (e. G., the movies).
GUIDE LESSONS FOR MAY 171
B. HARNESSING THE CHILD'S NORMAL DESIRES IN THE INTERESTS OF HIS MORAL DEVELOPMENT (Pages 91-96)
One of the best established principles of psychology is, to state it simply, a new habit can be established with considerable ease when it is "tacked on" to a strong desire. Let us say, for example, that Johnny has the habit of lying but, like other children, also loves recognition. The wise parent in such a case will capitalize Johnny's wish for recognition by creating an opportunity for him to be in the limelight when he tells the truth, and conversely denying him recognition when he persists in lying. The reader will readily convince herself of the truth of this general principle by taking each one of the following "normal desires" and working out an appropriate illustration, showing how the above principle can be widely used in the moral development of the child:
The desire for strength. The desire to earn a living. The desire to be like great people. The desire for fellowship. The desire for distinction and independence. The desire to lead. The will to power. The desire for justice. The tendency to kindness and mercy. The desire for sex. The desire for religion.
C. SOME GENERAL SUGGESTIONS (Pages 97-102)
There are two items in this part of the chapter which it seems appropriate to stress here. The first has to do with what might be called self-directed group activity. It can be stated as a general rule that children are much more sensitive to the opinions of other children in their own social group than they are to the opinions of their parents. It is this fact which has led to the wide-spread use of systems of self-government in schools and reformatories. The George Junior Republic, for instance, was built around this idea. Here, children governed themselves, as far as possible. Peculiarly enough, an interesting reform has grown out of this experiment. Thomas Mott Osborne became the most famous prison reformer in this country when he introduced
172 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
self-government into Sing Sing prison. The following incident illustrates the power of this principle. The Mutual Welfare League at Sing Sing was once asked to present one of its plays in a neighboring town. The prison management allowed the players to make the trip without guards. During the journey a storm arose which prevented the men from reaching their destination and which gave the men—most of whom were "lifers"—an excellent opportunity to escape. The following morning found every one of the prisoners back at the prison. Newspaper men inquired of the convicts why they didn't escape when they had the chance. Their reply is significant. "We were honor-bound to our fellow-prisoners, as well as to the warden, to return. Had we failed, they and their organization, would have been punished. We had no thought of escape."
The second item has to do with the influence of other personalities upon children. The best moral teacher, it is safe to say, is the one whose character is sound. Example is much more potent than precept. The psychological reason for this is that children are highly suggestible. They imitate, copy and emulate—sometimes very uncritically when young—the behavior patterns and models in their social world. This has led one writer (Dr. Henry C. King, former president of Oberlin College) to say, that "Character is caught, not taught." If this is true, then parents, teachers, and all who have responsibility for children, should themselves be superior characters and personalities.
Questions
1. What are the values and dangers in self-directing activities for children?
2. How much self-directing activity is possible for children in your community?
3. Give a few illustrations of the author's statement (page 99): "Untrained in the use of freedom, they (children) abuse it when it comes later."
4. Why is it poor psychology to say "don't" to a child?
5. Should as much care be exercised in the selection of religious teachers as of public school teachers? Explain.
D. THE PRINCIPLES OF CHARACTER EDUCATION (Pages 102-106)
Utah has made herself nationally famous for her work in character education. Credit for this is largely due to the leadership of Dean Milton Bennion, of the University of
GUIDE LESSONS FOR MAY 173
Utah, who for many years was chairman of the Committee of Character Education of the National Education Association. The work of this Committee has been preserved in a bulletin of the U. S. Bureau of Education (1920, No. 7, price 15c). It seems worth while to give our readers the gist of Dean Bennion's Committee report. In this pamphlet the objectives of character education are stated as:
"1. To develop socially valuable purposes, leading in youth or early maturity, to the development of life purposes.
"2. To develop enthusiasm for the realization of these purposes; and coupled with this enthusiasm, intelligent use of time and energy.
"3. To develop the moral judgment—the ability to know what is right in any given situation.
"4. To develop the moral imagination—the ability to picture vividly the good or evil consequences to self and to others of any type of behavior.
"5. To develop all socially valuable age capacities of the individual, and to direct the resultant abilities toward successfully fulfilling all one's moral obligations.
"Investigations thus far warrant the conclusion that the prime factor in the development of any personality is the influence of other personalities. This fact gives emphasis to the conviction that character education is a problem of community life, and that all social institutions and social agencies should share cooperatively this responsibility.
"The school can by no means assume all the responsibility. The natural responsibility of parenthood and the intimate personal relations of the home at once suggest that this institution should be the primary factor in character development. Character development is also held to be one of the chief functions of the church; but, because of its present limited range of influence as compared with the schools, they may well assume responsibility next in importance to that of the home for the character training of the young."
The Committee favored a system of what is called direct moral teaching. On this point the report says: "Direct moral instruction is, to be sure, but one phase of moral education in the schools; it may be a minor phase, yet of sufficient importance to make its omission a serious handicap. In order to realize all the objectives of character or moral education, it seems that all the available means and methods must be utilized—home, school, church, state, vocations and general social life of the community with such methods as may be employed in each case. Some of the methods available to the school are:
174 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
"a. The example and personal influence of teachers and other school officers.
"b. Indirect moral instruction through each and all of the school studies.
"c. Direct moral instruction by groups and on some occasions through personal conferences.
"d. Student participation in the management of the school community—sometimes called student participation in government.
"e. All other varieties of extracurricular activities of the school; e. g. Assembly periods, debating, musical and dramatical performances, athletic contests, parties, etc."
Questions
1. What is the method of character education in the schools of your community? What constructive suggestions can you offer for its improvement?
2. What can the schools do to individualize character education?
3. How does your community deal with juvenile delinquents and others whose character development is obviously faulty?
Zion's Mountains By Nina Kerrick
Oh! Mountains! Oh! Thou lofty peaks How dear thou art to me, Oh! Let me dwell among thee here As long as life shall be.
And then, Oh! Lay me at thy feet Beside some murmuring stream, Where I can sleep, and hear thy voice, In death's forgetful dream.
The rippling waves among the rocks, Would sing to me I know, Because methinks they all would know That I had loved them so.
And then the wind would speak to me While passing o'er my tomb, And in the spring the flowers dear Above my head would bloom.
Oh! No, I will not lonely be If thou wilt let me dwell with thee Oh, Mountains— Through eternity. SEEDS TREES Planting time is Here With Porter-Walton’s acclimated Tested Seeds and Reliable Shrubs and Trees, your success is assured. Our new Seed and Nursery Catalog tells what, when and how to plant. WALTON CO. Seven SEEDS— TREES. Planting Time Is Here With Porter-Walton's Times Champion of the World Sent to you on Free Trial Our new Seed and Nursery SEND FOR FREE COPY PORTER For Sale by a Utah Power & Light Co. 42 West First South - and Salt Lake City, Utah Eureka Vacuum Cleaner Co. —) o, L 111 E. 2nd So. St., Salt Lake City. A Sincere Appreciation "To the readers of the Relief Society Magazine: You are responsible for the splendid success and progress obtained by the manufacturers, packers and distributors of Blue Pine and Kitchen King Food Products. "There was a time not so long ago when the housewife thought that to be of the first class her canned foodstuffs had to be packed in some other state—for no particular reason, hut presumably because she felt that her neighbor could not do something as well as a person who lived a thousand miles away. Times and conditions have changed. You have learned that the finest fruits, the finest vegetables, the best spices, extracts, are packed in your own home state of Utah. Now the New Yorker cannot say that the best string beans, the best canned peas, are grown and packed in New York State; the Californian cannot say that the finest fruits and vegetables are grown and packed in California. Instead, it is a recognized fact that the finest tomatoes, peas and string beans are grown and packed in Utah, and they bring a premium in other states. When you purchase a food product under the Blue Pine or Kitchen King label, do not feel that it is a benefit to John Scowcroft & Sons Company alone, because this is not the truth. These fruits and vegetables that we pack are grown by Utah farmers and gardeners to whom we pay a profit for their work. The profit to us is only a fraction of a cent per can or package, but that small profit enables us to continue to have large payrolls which are again released to the merchants of Utah. We want to thank you again for your splendid support, and we know you will continue to buy Blue Pine Food Products because there are none better. JOHN SCOWCROFT & SONS CO. Pocatello, Idaho Ogden and Price, Utah Manufacturers, Packers and Distributors of BLUE PINE and KITCHEN KING Food Products Fall O' Flavor 4} (7 LL When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine ~ Special Sale of VANITY Full Fashioned Hosiery 42 GUAGE, OF FINEST SILK An all over silk chiffon stocking—a real $1.95 value at the special price of $1.59. Box of three pair $4.55. Extra heavy service weight, silk to welt. Mercerized heel and toe. A real value at $1.95, special price of $1.59, a box of three pair $4.55. A semi-chiffon stocking, silk to welt. Mercerized heel and toe. A real value at $1.85, special price $1.49, hox of three pair $4.25, All new goods. All the new shades. Mail orders filled. On sale. Glazier & Taylor Hosiery Co. 33 East Broadway VANITY HOSIERY SHOPPE 22 East Broadway PERFECT REFRIGERATION—CONSTANTLY Can only be had ElectrICE is not only guaranteed to operate—but to operate efficiently and for less money; to maintain perfect refrigerating temperatures every hour—-every day—for years. Only the self defrosting ElectrICE has these advantages. ELECTRICE SHOP  Best Quality and Full Weight Utah Products Used Exclusively In Our Bakery When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine PHONE WAS, 7083 135 EAST SECOND SOUTH a ——  IT PAYS TO BE PROTECTED! $18,391.36 Paid to Date $15,000.00 in Death Claims; $3,010.10 in Disability Claims Travel and Pedestrian One Year $7,500.00 Accident Policy for $1.00 We offer to old and new subscribers this unusual protection. Accidents happen every day. For your own protection and the protection of The Deserst News SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH Musings and Memories A Wonderful Collection of Original Poems by EMMELINE B. WELLS CoN SD ' se: During March we offer the few remaining copies at a "Memorial" price of $1.25 Postpaid. Order early—you surely want a copy of this book by your late remarkable leader Deseret Book Company P. O. Box 1793 44 Kast on South Temple Salt Lake City, Utah When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine your family Insure today. Now is the time to renew policy taken out a year ago. Certain benefits, if policy is renewed before lapsing, carry a 10 per cent increase. MRS ULGA WHEATLY HONEYVILLE UTAH =DO THIS! Wash With the Maytag Then you'll know how clean clothes can be washed—how easily and quickly they can be done, and it costs you nothing to make the test—not even a promise to buy. See big tubfuls washed immaculately clean in 3 to 7 minutes. See a big pile of clothes—50 pounds (dryweight)—washed in one short hour. See collars and cuffs washed edge-dirt free, without hand-rubbing. If it doesn't sell itself, don't keep it. MAYTAG INTERMOUNTAIN CO. Distributors — Aluminum Washer When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine 211 SOUTH STATE SALT LAKE CITY . Merit Bread Best Quality and Full Weight Utah Products Used Exclusively In Our Bakery To LOS ANGELES AND RETURN BOTH WAYS $50, Aj via SAN FRANCISCO............To LOS ANGELES via SAN FRANCISCO returning $58, 00 direct or route reversed... Ae Proportionately low fares from all other points in UTAH, IDAHO and MONTANA. STOPOVERS ALLOWED AT ALL POINTS. TICKETS ON SALE DAILY FINAL RETURN LIMIT 8 MONTHS For further information CALL, WRITE or PHONE PRESS BANCROFT, GENERAL AGENT PHONES WAS. 3008—3078 ey Nobody can stop loss. Everybody can avoid it through INSURANCE When you come here for insurance you get it, coupled with attentive experienced service. This is an agency of the Utah Home Fire Insurance Co. UTAH HOME-FIRE INSURANCE CO. HEBER J. GRANT & CO., General Agents, Salt Lake City, Utah When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine 41 SO. MAIN ST. SALT LAKE CITY Z. C. M. I. STRONG SEAMS MOUNTAINEER OVERALLS Are made from first quality Denim, guaranteed for quality, fit and service Something Different The Spring-0-All Suspender No Rubber to Rot, Nothing to Wear Out Mountaineer Overalls ———Reasons Why You Should Use UTAH SUGAR FIRST: It has no superior for any purpose even though the price is LOWER. SECOND: Cash so expended remains at home. THIRD: Farmers participate in savings effected which Benefit You. Encourage Home Consumption Encourage Growing of Sugar Beets Support of our State Means PROSPERITY FOR ALL GG —— J When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine Ma L. 0. 5, GARMENTS DIRECT FROM FACTORY You are guaranteed unusual wear and satisfaction from Cutler Garments. Return them for full refund if they do not give this required service. Cutler Underwear has maintained the highest standard of quality for over twenty years. No. 68 Lt. Wt. Ladies' new Style................$.75 No. 74 Lt. Weight combed........ 1.15 No. 64 Medium weight.... 1.45 No. 76 Lt. Weight lisle.... 1.45 No. 62 Medium heavy.............. 1.70 No. 61 Med. Hvy. Unbleached with double back.................. 1.70 No. 56 Heavy weight................ 2.15 No. 27 Med. Heavy, 4 wool...... 3.35 No. 39 Extra heavy, 4 wool.... 3.85 Please state whether for men or women—new or old style Postage prepaid Pay Cash—Cash Pays Cutler ) a, (7 Building Real Men and Women The young men and the young women of the State of Utah, are entitled to excellent general and professional training. This, they receive at the University of Utah. In addition, Utah's highest institution of learning is interested in developing character and leadership. This, they are also doing. SPECIAL SUMMER WORK The 1928 Summer School will find special emphasis on the character building side of educational work. For those who desire this type of work, Dr. Edith Swift Hale, Dr. Daisy A. Hetherington and Dr. Henry Neumann, all of New York, will present intensive courses in social and character education. These special courses are in addition to the usual rich selection of summer work, which this year will be crystallized into One Term: June 11th to July 20th. Fees (including student) $20.00. Complete Summer Catalog Will be Issued in April University of Utah SALT LAKE CITY  When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine one term of six weeks. ' L. D.. S. GARMENTS Good grade, and well made. When ordering, state Size, New or Old Style, and if for man or lady. Postage prepaid. Sample on request, 142 Flat Weave, Lt. Weight....8.95 264 Rayon Silk ou.$3.50 222 Cotton, Rayon Stripes...... 1.65 754 Bleached Cot., Hvy. Wt... 2.25  Seb 908 Unbleached Cot., Ex. Hvy. 2.75 BARTON & CO. Established in Utah 45 Years 142 WEST SOUTH TEMPLE ST. Salt Lake City, Utah LATTER-DAY SAINT GARMENTS At Factory-to-Customer Prices The following numbers are made in old or new style for either Men or Women 1 Ribbed light weight cotton, 6 High grade Rayon Tricowith Rayon silk stripe. An sham silk. For particular (new style only)..................$1.25 Pure worsted wool with 2 Ribbed light weight cotton. Cur standard summer Silkine Mercerized cotton. Weight (old style only)....$1.25 Our best medium winter number $5.75 ton bleached. Humber $1.75 8 Ribbed heavy weight, un bleached cotton and wool. Our 50% wool number........$5.75 4 Ribbed heavy weight, unbleached cotton. Our double back number.............$2.25 9 Ribbed medium weight, 5 Part wool, ribbed, unwool and cotton. Our light bleached. Our best sellweight, winter number......$4.75 wool number..................$3.06 In ordering be sure and specify whether Old or New Style Garments, three-quarter, or ankle length legs, short or long sleeves are wanted. Also give bust measure and height and weight to insure a perfect fit. Mail Orders Filled Promptly THE ORIGINAL UTAH WOOLEN MILLS 3 Block South of Temple Gate Special Sunday Bricks and Neopolitan Bricks 25¢ pt., 50c qt. Call Your Keeley's Dealer. Extra packed in ice.  4 TEMPLE AND BURIAL CLOTHES COMPLETE SUITS FOR MEN AND WOMEN Variety of Grades and Prices. Prompt and Careful attention To Mail—Telephone—Telegraph Orders Open Daily, 9 a. M.—5 p. M. GENERAL BOARD RELIEF SOCIETY ] Phone Wasatch 3286, 29 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine 208 Carded Cotton, Med, Wt....... 1.45 32 Combed Cotton, Light Wt.. 1.50 108 Unbleached Cot., Med. Wt... 1.85 excellent ladies' number Briant Stringham, Manager 217 Fine Lisle, Rayon Stripe.... 2.25 748 Unbleached Cot., Hvy. Wt... 2.00 1072 Mixed Wool and Cotton.......4.00 $4.00 28 Richards Street Ask for one of our folders describing the different services we offer. LAUNDRY Hyland 190 Distinctive Work Office 319 S. Main St.. S We should'a drunk more The Home Beautiful. When we wuz, kids Beautiful areal Nothing is of greater help to make a home attractive, cozy, and, really comfortable than Good Lighting Fixtures, properly placed. House-Cleaning time is the best time to improve on your Lighting Equipment. Good, up to date fixtures are lower priced than ever; 'and we have a big selection to choose from. Let us help you to YOUNG SAMSON Nows what. Rich, creamy milk. It's a ringer "The Hotpoint Shop"  GLOVER LEAF DAIRY; Blectrical Dealers and Contractors 159 W. 1st So. Was. 2177 April This is "Bedrooms" month | Bennett's "Property Life Insurance" Products Made by BENNETT GLASS & PAINT COMPANY When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine beautify your home. Modern Electric Co. P SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH he's aiming at—a bottle of our every time, and the prize is health in the "Year-round Painting Program" featuring POCATELLO, IDAHO 2 CONTENTS XV APRIL, 1928 Vol. No. 4 One of the Tombs of the Kings.. Frontispiece Ere the Roses Bloom... Alveretta S. Engar 177 The Christ of the Book of Mormon..... John Henry Evans Flowers.......Sarah Leggett Phelps A Visit to the Relief Societies of the French Mission.... May Booth Talmage Dr. Emmeline B. Wells...... Charity..............-Elva P. "Bushman Editorial—The First Editor's Birthday.. The Memorial Theatre at Stratford on Avon The Purchasing of the Hill "Cumorah:. Cooperation from the Northern States Mission...Mrs. Jeanette A. Hyde Visits Utah. President Williams Expresses Appreciation or The Abundant Harvest. Mary Hale Woolsey Soil for Potted Plants...............Dr, Thomas L. Martin Notes from the Field.. Amy Brown Lyman Guide Lessons for June 179 190 191 199 202 203. 204 205 206 206 207 208 216 218 221 Organ of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints Room 20 Bishop's Bldg. $1.00 a Year—Single Copy. 10c Foreign, $1.25 a Year—ti5e Single Copy Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office. Salt Lake City, Utah Phone Wasatch 3123 Salt Lake City. Utah APRIL, 1928 NO. 4 QUAKING ASPENS—-BY HAFEN Ere the Roses Bloom By Alveretta S. Engar (Third poem to receive honorable mention in the Eliza Roxey Snow Poetry Contest.) The time will come when we must part, When all the ties that bind my heart To every room, and flower, and tree Of this dear home must severed be, Ah, let it be before the roses bloom In June. Within these walls I've dreamed my dreams And know the joy that realizing brings, The comfort of the hearthside throng, The solace of the fireside song, Ah, let it echo till the roses bloom In June. I've known the pain of hopes deferred That one time all my being stirred, All these, and more, have touched my heart, And yet the time is all too short Till we must part, before the roses bloom In June. Ere fragrant roses pink and red Again adorn the garden bed In a riotous mass of bloom, Intoxicating with perfume, Ah, let me go before the roses bloom In June. THE STONE ROLLED AWAY ONE OF THE TOMBS OF THE KINGS WITH THE STONE ROLLED AWAY PALESTINE JERUSALEM THE Relief Society Magazine VOL. XV APRIL, 1928 No. 4 The Christ of the Book of Mormon By John Henry Evans Jesus Christ is the outstanding historical figure in our annals—greater than Confucius, or Buddha, or Aristotle, or Mohammed, or Moses, or Shakespeare, or Luther, or Washington or Lincoln. And these were the foremost men of their time. Yet, largely as they bulk against the horizon, each in his individual setting and work, these figures shrivel into insignificance when we mention their names in the same breath as that of the mighty Galilean. His influence is felt more or less in every good thought we think and every good deed we do today after nearly two thousand years, and that influence promises to be greater in the coming years. Any document, therefore, that can help us to visualize more clearly this greatest character among men, is valuable beyond estimation. Now, the Book of Mormon does this very thing. It gives us a closer and a fuller view of the Jehovah of the Old Testament, and during a longer period than does the Old Testament. It supplies us with fresh, first-hand, and some extremely picturesque details of his ministry on earth. And it brings into greater clearness what is merely hinted at or vaguely suggested in the Hebrew Scriptures respecting his relation to us and the world. I purpose, then, in this article to assemble the ideas and scenes, now scattered throughout the Nephite Record, which bear in any way on the subject of the Christ, whether before or during or after his appearance in the flesh, so as to show what light that volume throws upon the personality and work and position of Jesus in the history of this planet. Of course, such a presentation can hope to be nothing more pretentious than a sketching in of these newer-details. But it will serve to show that the Book of Mormon has something of real worth to contribute to our picture of the Master. 180 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE I His Pre-earth Life—The Bible And first let me speak of the light which the Nephite Record throws upon the pre-earth life of our Savior. Clear as is the idea in the mind of the informed Latter-day Saint that Christ had a spirit-existence before he tabernacled in the flesh, yet the clearness of this notion comes, not from the Hebrew writings, but mainly from the Book of Mormon. The Old Testament, as a matter of fact, is all but silent on the point. In the biblical account of the creation the word "Elohim" is used, which is plural. This fact implies—but it is only an implication—that there were more than one person taking part in that event. Who were they? For an answer to this question we must go to John's Gospel. One of them was Jesus, for he is there spoken of as having been with the Father "in the beginning." But we should never have come by this light from the account of the event in Genesis alone. That is about as clear a reference as we have in the Old Testament of the ante-mortal existence of Christ. It is true, also, that we have the name Jehovah employed constantly by the writers of the Old Testament as the title of the God of the Israelites. But here again it requires the application of other passages before we can conclude that this is Christ, not to speak of the difficulty of inferring how he could have existed before he was born! Hence we are justified in saying that the pre-mortal life of Jesus is only vaguely hinted at in the pages of the Old Testament.. That existence is clearer, but not much clearer, in the New Testament. The passage in John's record of Christ's life I have already called attention to. The exact wording of that passage will show just how clearly the idea is set forth. "In the beginning," John says, "was the Word, and the Word was with God, and the Word was God. * * * All things were made by him. In him was life, and the life was the light of men. * * * And the Word was made flesh, and dwelt among us, and we beheld his glory, the glory of the only begotten of the Father, full of grace and truth." This, as we shall see later, is not the clear, direct statement that we find in the Book of Mormon. Yet it is the clearest we have in the New Testament, if we except the one we have by the Son of God himself, in which he prays for the glory he had with the Father "before the world was." These two references are by far the most specific and positive, made quite incidentally of the pre-earth life of the Christ. His Pre-earth Life—Book of Mormon Contrast these with the record of incidents and the THE CHRIST OF THE BOOK OF MORMON | 181 positive declarations on the subject in the Nephite Record. The first reference comes from the account of Ether in that volume. Moriancumer, the brother of Jared, is in need of some means of lighting the eight barges he has made under divine direction for crossing the ocean. He ends by taking sixteen small stones, 'white and clear and transparent as glass, up to a mountain. These he prays for the Lord to "touch with his finger and prepare them that they might shine forth in darkness."' When the Lord does so, the "veil is taken from off the eyes of the brother of Jared, and he sees the finger of the Lord, that it is as the finger of a man, like unto flesh and blood. And he falls down before the Lord, for he is struck with fear." "Why hast thou fallen?" inquires the Lord. "Because," answered Moriancumer, "I saw the finger of the Lord, and I feared lest he should smite me. For I knew not that the Lord had flesh and blood." And the Lord said, "Because of thy faith thou hast seen that I shall take upon me flesh and blood. Never has man come before me with such exceeding faith as thou hast. For were it not so, thou couldst not have seen my finger. Sawest thou more than this?" "Nay, Lord. Show thyself unto me!" And "the Lord showed himself unto him," saying, "Because thou knowest these things, thou art redeemed from the fall. Therefore thou art brought back into my presence, and I show myself unto thee. Behold, I am he who was prepared from the foundation of the world to redeem my people. I am Jesus Christ. In me shall all mankind have light and that eternally, even they who shall believe on my name, and they shall become my sons and daughters. * * * Seest thou that thou art created after mine own image? This body, which thou now beholdest, is the body of my spirit. Man have I created after the body of my spirit. Even as I appear unto thee to be in the spirit, will I appear unto my people in the flesh." It is clear from this luminous incident, first, that Jesus Christ existed before his incarnation in the flesh and his appearance on the earth in a physical body; secondly, that the form in which he existed was the same as that which he took in the fleshly tabernacle, only it was spirit instead of flesh; and, thirdly, that he created man in spirit-form, the same form that his own spirit bore, and the form, moreover, of which man's physical body is the counterpart, leaving us to infer that man also, as to his spirit, had a pre-earth life. This incident, therefore, throws a spotlight upon what has hitherto been a very dark area. 182 - RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Another striking passage, almost as luminous and equally clear and definite, is from the account in the Book of Mormon of the predictions of the Lamanite prophet Samuel and their fulfilment. Those who are acquainted with the circumstances will recall that Samuel went to Zarahemla for the purpose of preaching to the Nephites there, who were fast dwindling in their religious faith, and that, failing to regain entrance into the place, he delivered his message in a picturesque fashion from the ramparts that surrounded the town. In five years, he told the people, "the Son of God cometh to redeem all those who shall believe on his name." And he gave them a sign by which they might know that Christ was born across the waters among the Jews. It was that. There should be "one day and a night and a day as if it were one day, without darkness between daylight, that is, for a period of about thirty-six hours. Also a new star should appear, one that had not been seen before, with "many signs and wonders in heaven." As the time approached for the sign to appear, and it did not appear, the unbelievers scoffed and threatened, and the believers, on their part, became alarmed for their very lives. At this time a prophet named Nephi, "cried mightily unto his God" in behalf of the faithful. He was answered by the voice of the Lord—'"Lift up your head and be of good cheer, for, behold, the time is at hand. On this night shall the sign be given, and on the morrow come I into the world, to show unto the world all that which I have caused to be spoken by the mouth of my holy prophets. Behold, I come unto my own, to fulfil all things which I have made known unto the children of men, from the foundation of the world, and to do the will, both of the Father and of the Son; of the Father because of me, and of the Son because of my flesh." No language could be clearer or more definite and specific as to the pre-earth existence of the Christ than this passage and the passage from the Jaredite record, previously given. The fact of that existence is stated beyond all possibility of quibble or misunderstanding—which is not the case, as we have seen, in the Hebrew Scriptures. To be sure, one may dispute the authenticity of the assertion itself for the divine inspiration claimed for it, but one may not deny its clearness, or its positiveness, or its definiteness of utterance. II The Book of Mormon also throws a flood of light on the deityship of Jesus Christ. And, as in the case of his antemortal existence, the value of this additional light is not that THE CHRIST OF THE BOOK OF MORMON _ 183 it gives anything altogether new but that it brings into relief and greater plainness what is rather suggested than asserted in the New Testament. Christ's Godhood—The Bible On this subject of the godhead of Christ there are only implications in the Old Testament—the use of the word "Elohim" in the account of the creation, for instance, and of the word "Jehovah" as the designation of the God of the Hebrew people. Nor is the New Testament altogether unambiguous on the point. Christ speaks of himself as greater than Abraham and Moses, but one need not infer from this that he was divine in the accepted sense. Also John, as we have seen, declares that "the word was God" and that "all things were made by him." And Jesus says after his resurrection, "All power is given unto me in heaven and in earth." These passages, and others not so clear, are interpreted to mean that Christ is God. Nevertheless, there have been devout believers all down the ages since our era began who understood these statements as not asserting Christ's Godhead. Beginning in the fourth century after his birth, Arianism in one form or another has been in existence—that is, the denial of Christ's divinity, without a denial of his greatness, his creative powers and work, and his teachings. And there have been sects established on this theory of his humanity. The Book of Mormon, however, is not susceptible to this double meaning when it speaks on the subject. On the contrary, its declarations on the point are clear, distinct, and emphatic.. Christ's Godhood—Book of Mormon. On the fly-leaf of that volume is the statement that -"Jesus is the Christ, the eternal God, manifesting himself unto all the nations." Indeed, to "convince" both Jew and Gentile of this fact, that Christ is very God, is specifically declared to be one of the purposes in revealing the Nephite Record to the world in this age. — Says Abinadi, one of the early prophets of the Nephites, "God himself shall come down among the children of men, and shall redeem his people. And: because he dwelleth in the flesh, he shall be called the Son of God, having subjected the flesh to the will of the Father." The first Nephi tells us that "the God of our fathers, the God of Abraham and of Isaac and of Jacob, yieldeth himself as a man into the hands of wicked men, to be lifted up and 184 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE crucified and buried in a sepulchre." Lehi speaks of the Jews as the only people who would crucify their God. Benjamin, who was both a king and a prophet, declares, "the time cometh, and is not far distant, that with power the Lord omnipotent, who reigneth, who was and is from all eternity to all eternity, shall come down from heaven among the children of men and shall dwell in a tabernacle of clay, and shall go forth among men, working mighty miracles—healing the sick, raising the dead, causing the lame to walk, the blind to receive their sight, and the deaf to hear, and curing all manner of diseases." These men—Abinadi, Nephi, Lehi, and Benjamin—all lived before the Christian era. But the passages to be found in the Book of Mormon after Christ are equally specific and positive on the point under consideration. Jesus himself, when he appeared among the Nephites after his resurrection, told them, "I am the God of Israel and the God of the whole earth, and have been slain for the sins of the whole world." And Moroni speaks of Christ as distinctively the God of the land of America, whom its inhabitants must serve if they would not be destroyed. Referring to the land we now call America, he says, "Behold, this is a choice land, and whatsoever nation shall possess it, shall be free from bondage and from captivity and from all other nations under heaven—if they will but serve the God of the land, who is Jesus Christ." Again, the truth of these statements may be called in question, but not their clearness or their positiveness. He who runs may read and understand the import of them. It is impossible to twist them into a double meaning or to involve them in a cloud of mist. They are either true or not true in the meaning they bear on their face. Attributes of God Ascribed to Christ Not only is Jesus Christ expressly called God in the Nephite Record, but the character and attributes ascribed to God in the Hebrew Scriptures are applied to our Savior in the Book of Mormon. He is declared to be omnipotent. Says King Benjamin, "I would that ye should be steadfast and immovable, always abounding in good works, that Christ, the Lord God omnipotent, may seal you his." Christ is specifically termed in the Book of Mormon a "God of miracles." Also he is called Creator. "There is a God," says Lehi, "and he hath created all things, both in the heavens and the earth, and all things that in them are, both things to act and things to be acted upon." That Lehi understood this creative act to have been THE CHRIST OF THE BOOK OF MORMON _ 185 performed by Jesus is evident from another passage a little later on, in which he says, "Thus saith the Lord, when the day cometh that they shall believe in me, that I am Christ," and so on. Jesus himself said to the Nephites after his resurrection, "I am Jesus Christ, the Son of God. I created the heavens and the earth, and all things that in them are. I was with the Father in the beginning." Several of the Nephite writers during the national existence of that people speak to the same effect. So, then, there can be no misunderstanding the Book of Mormon that Jesus Christ is omnipotent in the sense that it is usually applied to God in sacred literature. The Nephite Record also ascribes other attributes to our Savior, such as are applied in the Bible only to God—self-existence, justice, holiness, unchangeableness, goodness, grace and mercy, and love. King Benjamin declares that Christ "exists from all eternity to all eternity." Says Lehi, "O the wisdom of God! His mercy and grace! For, behold, if the flesh should rise no more, our spirits must become subject to that angel who fell from before the presence of the eternal God, to rise no more." Another writer, Jacob, the son of Lehi, importunes his readers to 'remember the greatness of the Holy One of Israel," whom he elsewhere calls "that. Holy God," and also to bear in mind that "his paths are righteous." The first Nephi represents Jehovah as saying, "Behold, I am God; I am a God of miracles; and I will show unto the world that I am the same yesterday, today, and forever." To quote again from Jacob, "O how great the goodness of our God, who prepareth a way for our escape from the grasp of this awful monster, death and hell!' In a word, every attribute that in sacred literature is ascribed to God, the Nephite writers apply to Jesus Christ, both before and after his incarnation in the flesh. III And so we come now to those incomparable scenes where Jesus Christ in person, after his resurrection, ministered to the people on the American continent. It is unnecessary here to do anything more than recall to mind the impressive spectacle which preceded that appearance of the Master—the furious storms, the thunderings and sharp lightning, the upheavals and sinkings of the earth's crust, the destruction of entire cities, the carrying away of men and women in the whirlwind, the agonized cries of the survivors, and finally the voice from the heavens that pierced into the hearts of those who had gathered to exchange horrified feelings and words over what had taken place, a "small 186 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE voice," indistinct at first as of an approaching sound, but becoming clearer, till the astonished multitude understood it. Said the voice: "Behold my beloved Son, in whom I am well pleased, in whom I have glorified my name. Hear him." Chist Appears to Nephites Casting up their eyes again toward heaven, whence came the words, they beheld a man descending out of the air, clothed in a white robe. This man came down and stood in the midst of the people; "the eyes of the whole multitude," says the historian with the evident air of a spectator, "were turned upon him, and they durst not open their mouths, even one to another," because "they wist not what it meant," believing, it to be "an angel that appeared unto them." The man "stretched forth his hand and spake unto the people: Behold, I am Jesus Christ, whom the prophets testified should come into the world. I am the light and the life of the world. I have drunk out of that bitter cup which the Father hath given me, and have glorified the Father in taking upon me the sins of the world, in which I have suffered the will of the Father from the beginning." The whole multitude "fell to the earth" in adoration, for they remembered the prophecies concerning the Christ. "Arise," said Jesus, "and come forth unto me, that ye may thrust your hands into my side, and also that ye may feel the prints of the nails in my. Hands and in my feet, that ye may know that I am the God of Israel arid the God of the whole earth." ' So "the multitude went forth," the narrative goes on, "and thrust their hands into his side, and did feel the prints of the nails in his hands and in his feet, going forth one by one. Until they had all gone forth, and did see with their eyes, and did feel with their hands, and did know of a surety, and did bear record, that it was he of whom it was written by the prophets that he should come."  This done, they cried out in one voice, ''Hosannah! Blessed be the name of the most high God!" And they fell down at his feet and worshiped him.: ~ Nephi, one of the prophets who had spoken of Christ's appearance and who had "departed out of the land" a little before this, was in the crowd. He "arose and went forth and bowed himself before the Lord and kissed his feet." Main Teachings Reiterated Jesus then taught the people the main doctrines he had already proclaimed among the Jews. For some reason—most THE CHRIST OF THE BOOK OF MORMON | 187 likely because he found the Nephites more believing and sympathetic than the Jews—he spoke with greater freedom and plainness than he appears to have done in Palestine. He taught them concerning baptism. "Ye shall go down and stand in the water," he said, 'and in my name shall ye baptize. And ye shall say, calling them by name, 'Having authority given me of Jesus Christ, | baptize you in the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost. Amen!' Then shall ye immerse 'them in the water, and come forth again out of the water." This was to be done only in the case of those who repented of their sins and who desired to be baptized in the name of Christ. And these explicit directions were given, Jesus told them, that there might be "no contentions" among the people. For whoever had the "spirit of contention," he explained, was not of Christ, but of the devil, "who is the father of contention," because he "stirreth up the hearts of men to contend in anger one with another." "It is not my doctrine," he further said, "to stir up the hearts of men in anger, one against another. But this is my doctrine, that such things should be done away." A luminous statement, when you come to get at the heart of it, and a distinct contribution to the utterances of the Christ. There are not many difficulties known to man that do not have their root in a "stirring up of the heart in anger" one way or another. This idea of peaceableness, coupled with the teachableness of a little child, after one has had faith, has repented of his sins, has been baptized for the remission of them, and received the gift of the Holy Ghost, Christ declared to be his doctrine. "Whoso buildeth upon this, buildeth upon my rock, and the gates of hell shall not prevail against him." Here is epitomized the puzzling variety of things we are required to do in life—a codification, so to speak, of the laws and statutes of religion. As members of the Church everything depends on our being uncontentious and teachable.
A Unique Scene
Also more plainly than too the Jews he spoke about the law of Moses. "I am he that gave the law, and I am he who covenanted with my people Israel. Therefore, the law in me is fulfilled, for I have come to fulfill the law—therefore it hath an end. Not all the covenant which I have made with my people is fulfilled, but the law which was given unto Moses hath an end in me."
After repeating the teachings which we have in what is
188 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
known as the Sermon on the Mount, Jesus told the multitude that his "time was at hand" to go to the Father and also to show himself "unto the lost tribes of Israel." And "the people were in tears" at the thought that he was going to leave them! They looked at him "steadfastly" as if they would ask him to stay a little longer. Perceiving their desires, he said, "My bowels are filled with compassion and mercy towards you." Then, "Have ye any that are sick among you? Bring them hither. Or any that are lame, or blind, or halt, or maimed, or leprous, or withered, or deaf, or afflicted in any manner?" Thereupon "all the multitude, with one accord, did go forth with their sick, and their afflicted, and their lame, and their blind, and their dumb, with all that were afflicted in any manner. And he did heal them every one as they were brought forth unto him. And they did all, both they who had been healed and they who were whole, bow down at his feet, and did worship him. And as many as could come for the multitude did kiss his feet, insomuch that they did bathe his feet with their tears."
Then he commanded that their little children be brought to him. And when they had been brought, he "sat them down upon the ground round about him, and he stood in the midst of them," the multitude giving way till all the children were together. He commanded all the people to kneel down upon the ground. When they had done so, "Jesus groaned within himself, and said, Father, I am troubled because of the wickedness of the House of Israel.
"And when he had said these words, he himself also knelt down upon the earth, and, behold, he prayed unto the Father, and the things which he prayed cannot be written, and the multitude did bear record who heard him." So powerfully were the people affected by what they had heard in that prayer, that they "were overcome." On rising from his knees, he bade them rise also, after which he said, "Blessed are ye because of your faith. And now, behold, my joy is full." And he wept. Then he took the children, one by one, and blessed them. And prayed to the Father in behalf of them. And he wept again. "Behold your little ones!" he said. As the people looked, they saw the heavens open, and angels descending in what appeared to be fire, and ministering to the children, who were themselves encircled by fire. After this unparalleled scene there "came a cloud and overshadowed the multitude, that they could not see Jesus.
THE CHRIST OF THE BOOK OF MORMON 189
And while they were overshadowed, he departed from them, and ascended into heaven."
IV
Just what is the value of this additional light thrown upon the Christ by the Book of Mormon? In what way and to what degree is Christian theology advanced by these new ideas and the greater clearness given to old ideas that were vague?
But first let us summarize this information. The main and subordinate points we have already considered are as follows:
Main Points Summarized
First, Jesus Christ had a conscious existence before his incarnation in the flesh—an existence, that is, in which he was able to think and to feel and to act.
Secondly, he existed in a form that, although spiritual in substance, is the same as the form we have come to know as the human, with all the organs and dimensions that the physical tabernacle of man has in mortality.
Thirdly, he was very God in that state of existence, having all the nature and characteristics which the race from the beginning has ascribed to the Power that created man and the world and that governs the universe.
Fourthly, he now has, since his incarnation and death and resurrection, a body of flesh and bone, the same in effect that was crucified and afterwards laid in the tomb in Palestine.
These, all, are main propositions, stated in a way which it is impossible to misunderstand. There are numerous and important corollaries, also, such as—that Jesus was the Jehovah of the Old Testament, watching over and directing the destinies of the Hebrew people, impelling them by means of bitter experiences and keeping them in line for a specific purpose; that he was with the Father in the beginning, creating the earth and man with everything pertaining thereto; that he hears with infinite patience and love, the same patience and love he manifested in the flesh, for the salvation of all mankind, irrespective of color or conditions in life; that man too had a pre-earth life, a life of the spirit, which, in form, is the exact counterpart of the physical body that we see in mortality; and finally, that life as we know it here is but a section, a very small section, of life as it is, and was, and will be. These ideas take us up, as it were, to the top of a high pinnacle, from which we may view mortality in its relation to the illimitable stretch of life both before and after this.
190 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
Value of This New Clearness
And we need this outlook very much indeed. Life proves to most of us a very perplexing thing. There is so much of it! And it is so intricate, so complex! It is a great ocean, on which we are afloat, not to say adrift, and we are unable by ourselves to swim into any of those powerful undercurrents that would sweep us onward to a Somewhere. It is a giant forest, in which we are, all of us, lost, with no halo to lead us out of its shadowy depths into the clearing. We hear, it is true, an occasional "Lo here!" and "Lo there!" But these are vocal mirages, which only add to our bewilderment. Not the greatest philosophers have been able to reduce the multitudinous and confusing events and facts of life to anything like a simple and orderly process working towards a goal. And so we must look outside our own thought for a plan that will show the general push of life, that will relate one thing to another, that can bring into full view the "one increasing purpose" running through the ages. Such a plan, such a view, we have in the revealments of the Book of Mormon, where it speaks of the Christ. In its white light a new meaning is given to such traditional phrases as "divine guidance," the "love of God," "obedience," and many others. And we are helped in our faith and trust in him.
Flowers By Sarah Leggett Phelps
The following tribute to flowers was written by Mrs. Sarah Leggett Phelps, a woman 82 years of age, who has been an invalid for fifteen years, from paralysis.
Place them by my bedside so that I may see their display of beautiful colors and their sweet faces. What great power they have! They soften and make the heart glad. They brighten those who are lonely and sad. They make one feel the influence of the giver, who arranged them so artistically in their beds that they might go on their joy-giving journey. Although far away, you feel near by the sweet message the flowers bring. They make me feel that I would like to see the kind face of the giver and gently take her by the hand. They make me happy to know that somewhere someone is thinking of me. Although flowers fade, they leave a sweet remembrance behind that lasts forever.
A Visit to the Relief Societies of the French Mission By May Booth Talmage
It was not until near the close of our third year in Europe that the opportunity came for me to visit the Relief Societies of the French Mission. Most tourists would feel a sense of keen disappointment if a trip to the Continent failed to include France, but the very spirit and genius of missionary service is found in going when and where one is sent and in coming when called; and thus it was that other missions, some far more distant, were visited during the earlier years.
It may not be definitely known to all magazine readers that the headquarters of the French Mission are not located in France at all, but in Geneva, Switzerland—the city now famous as the home of the League of Nations, situated on beautiful Lake Geneva. The Mission as a whole, takes in France, Belgium, and the French-speaking part of Switzerland; thus in visiting our Branches in that mission, one meets three distinct types of people even though their language is the same.
Urgent mission duties had taken President Talmage to Scandinavia in early August of 1927, and as it was found advisable to convene a Conference of Mission Presidents and their wives in Dresden during the first week in September, word was sent to Liverpool for me to join President and Sister Rossiter of the French Mission and visit the Relief Societies in Belgium while we were all enroute to Dresden.
Leaving London on the evening of August 19th, I found myself in a compartment with two English college girls who were to spend their vacations in Switzerland; two French women, one of whom was going home after some years of absence from her mother, the other returning from a vacation spent in England; and the sixth occupant was, like myself, an American. The group furnished a most interesting character study for me until we took boat at New Haven for Dieppe. Theretofore, when traveling by boat to Ireland or to Rotterdam, we had gone on board at bedtime and landed on the following morning. The sensation of going to bed under ordinary conditions and getting up at 2 a. M. in a strange country, listening to an unknown language and using unfamiliar coin was most unusual. The waiting train conveyed us to Paris before sunrise, but President Rossiter was already waiting at the station with a cordial welcome. We were soon with Sister Rossiter and several missionaries and other friends from Utah.
192 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
The sights and scenes of the great French Metropolis have been too often and too ably depicted by pen and screen to justify amateur effort. In all the world there is but one Louvre with its myriads of art treasures; and all the descriptions of all the experts fail to bring the thrill one gets in looking even for a few moments at the Winged Victory, Venus de Milo, or Mona Lisa. One of the most difficult things for me when traveling is to convince myself that I am really seeing the objects about which I have read with such keen interest, but which seemed so far removed. One gets such vivid mind pictures at times about people and places, that when the reality comes, even though it be more striking or pretentious, it is different, and one has to keep adjusting the mind to the new object instead of the old one. On the other hand, there are some places and things that seem like old friends because of their familiar aspect.
The few days of our stay in Paris were filled to the limit with worthwhile experiences, most of which exceeded my expectations; but I confess to a feeling of disappointment over the lack of smartly-dressed women. One's conception of Paris is likely to be that each woman will be wearing—not exactly an "imported" gown, but rather, a "creation" from the hands of Worth or Lucille or Jenney, direct, but our conclusions were that many American cities could furnish better examples of well-dressed women. However, we were informed that the ones we saw were tourists and that the real Parisienne takes a taxi and is seldom seen parading the streets—so much for casual impressions!
One entire day we spent in going over the Battle Fields; the Marne, Belleau Woods, Soissons, Chateau Thierry, etc. The ever-recurring cemeteries with their myriads of crosses seemed to give new meaning to the terms; and the great War became a thing of hideous reality, such as had never been experienced through reading printed page or listening to masterly addresses. One's very soul cried out for a civilization that would outlaw war.
But all of this has no relation whatever to our visit to the Relief Societies of the French Mission. From Paris the Rossiters and I proceeded to Liege, which is the headquarters of the Belgium District. All that has been written in our previous articles concerning the warm welcome and delightful hospitality extended by the people of the missions heretofore visited, could in turn be repeated concerning those in the French Mission in so far as their conditions would permit. Whether in Belgium, in Switzerland or in France, it mattered not. We were made to feel thoroughly at home; and however strange the spoken word, its meaning was made quite clear through tone and gesture. Nothing but love unfeigned, born of the true Gospel spirit, could have given us the assurance of sincerity and the genuine heartglow that was constantly rekindled as we journeyed from place to place, and met new groups of missionaries and new assemblages of Saints.
President Joel H. Bowen and all the traveling missionaries of the District were untiring in their courtesies to us personally, and in their efforts to make the meetings successful. The same thing was true of all the missionaries in all the Districts and we wish it were possible to mention each one in turn and tell of their many kindnesses, for which we have such deep appreciation.
Relief Society Conferences were held in Herstal, Seraing, and Liege, with additional officers' meetings, M. I. A. Gatherings, and Sunday Sacrament services. At all of these there was shown a spirit of keen interest and earnest devotion, that gave assurance of increased and progressive activity. Our sympathies were deeply enlisted in behalf of three missionaries who were in hospitals through illness, and therefore unable to be at our gatherings. Two of them were found cheerfully hopeful of soon being out again; but the stringent rules of the other hospital permitted only President Rossiter to visit the third one, who had typhoid fever. We were glad to learn later that the lives of all were spared.
The Relief Society in Brussels was disorganized; but Sister Rossiter and I visited an earnest little Bible class and spoke to the members concerning our work, and soon thereafter the Society was reorganized and working enthusiastically.
Enroute to Dresden we spent a few pleasant hours in Cologne with District President Leon B. Linford and some of his colaborers. We found them busy and happy in their labors and eager to show us such places of interest as our time would permit. The Cathedral at Cologne with its more than eight thousand carved figures, ranks among the finest of the cathedrals of the world.
Upon our arrival in Berlin we were delightfully surprised to learn from District President Christiansen, who met the train, that President Talmage had arrived from Scandinavia a few hours before. In ten minutes we were with him at the hotel, and soon were joined by officials from Norway, Sweden, and Denmark, who were going to attend the Conference in Dresden, and also by President Valentine of the German-Austrian Mission.
A meeting with the missionaries of the Berlin District on Saturday proved to be a spiritual feast for all of us. On Sunday morning we were assigned to visit three Branches in Berlin, where various auxiliary organizations held officers' meetings preceding the regular Sunday School sessions. I was thus fortunate in being able to meet with the Relief Society Sisters,
194 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
to join in their testimony meeting and enjoy the splendid spirit. At Sunday School and at the Fast Day service we found everything giving evidence of excellent work being accomplished in that vicinity. A joint gathering of the six branches in Berlin was held in the evening and the large hall filled with members and friends. Musical numbers of a high order delighted the visitors. We were again the recipients of the same type of generous hospitality and warm welcome that had been so liberally extended on our visit two years before.
On Monday, September 5th, it was my great privilege to go for the first time to Leipzig with my husband and President Valentine, where our little meeting hall was dedicated by the former at the gathering held for that purpose, in the evening. It was an occasion long to be remembered. There was just time before the meeting for us to visit the wonderful Denkmal or monument which is so justly famous. An entire article could scarcely do it justice, but a picture may give some faint idea of its colossal magnitude.
As an account of the Mission Presidents' Conference in Dresden, covering a period of four days, has been given elsewhere, we shall only emphasize here its importance as a source of mutual helpfulness, encouragement and blessing to all who participated. At its close the group separated to go their widely divergent ways. President and Sister Cannon had a convention scheduled in Hanover. Presidents Talmage and Valentine proceeded to visit the northern Districts of the German Mission and the one in Austria, after which the former continued on through Bulgaria and Constantinople to Syria, Palestine and Egypt—but that is another story.
Before going to Geneva, Sister Rossiter and I went to Besancon, France. I think there will always remain in my memory the picture of our arrival at this quaint fortified French city not far from war-famed Verdun. The dear little President of the Relief Society, Sister Artaud, awaited us with two huge bouquets of flowers and a look of genuine joy that went straight to my heart. Branch President Stewart Wright and his companion missionary were on hand to give all assistance and a hearty welcome. As the Relief Society had been organized with but five members only a few months before, it was as surprising as it was gratifying to find the hall crowded and extra chairs needed to provide accommodations for those who came. The people who came to all these meetings were not Relief Society members only, as the meetings were for the public generally, that men as well as women not of our faith might learn of the wonderful scope and achievements of this great organization. Among the distinguished people present at Besancon was a director of education and two high school teachers. After a statement of the facts concerning the history, purpose, and achievements of the organization, there were several new applications for membership. We were informed that through the enthusiastic zeal and unceasing efforts of the Relief Society President, she had been instrumental in bringing twenty-two members into the Church.
Many and quaint were the places visited during the all too few hours at our disposal, in this interesting city that is honored in being the birthplace of Victor Hugo.
To one who for more than half a century had thought of a foreign country as a place of magnificent distances to which one might some day be privileged to go, it was somewhat breathtaking and decidedly confusing to find oneself changing countries half a dozen times in as many days. Saturday we were in Germany, Sunday in Czechoslovakia, Monday again over the border in Germany, Tuesday in Switzerland, and Wednesday in France. Each time money must be changed into the kind in current use; but one must guard against getting too much, as the laws forbid taking silver out of one country into another; if the regulation is infringed, the money is subject to confiscation.
Within four hours after boarding the train in Besancon, France, which we were loath to leave so soon, we found ourselves in a little progressive town among the Swiss Mountains, La Chaux du Fonds by name. Here President Leonard D. Robbins and his associates vied with their co-workers in other cities in making our visit successful and pleasant. A good musical program lent interest to the meeting held here, displaying, as it did, the splendid talent of the members participating. The following morning President Robbins succeeded in obtaining permission for us to go through the world-famed Movado Swiss watch factory. Our guide was most courteous and explained all the intricacies of the most delicate mechanism with illuminating results. Some of the wheels are so tiny as to necessitate the hand-glass being used by the workers who separate them into proper receptacles. A highly specialized expert showed the
RELIEF SOCIETIES OF THE FRENCH MISSION 197
method used in detecting flaws in tiny cogs of these tiny wheels. The wheel is placed on a disk and magnified 100 times, the shadow being projected onto a brilliantly lighted screen, where the slightest irregularity is at once detected and corrected. Also we were shown the method of making the watches proof against extremes of temperature. What we saw will always give an added interest to watches in general and to Swiss watches in particular.
At Neuchatel we were favored by the presence of President Rossiter again, who, because of urgent mission business, had been obliged to go direct to Geneva. Here, Branch President George Young Jarvis directed the preparations for the very successful evening service. An excellent program given by the members, preceding the addresses by the visiting officers, was deeply appreciated and gave evidence of keen interest and willingness to serve.
This little town, made famous through the cheese that bears its name, has much else to make one wish to linger; but a meeting was scheduled in Lausanne the next night, so we were forced to be content with the few delightful hours we had before our train was due to leave.
There seems to be rather more indifference than prejudice toward the Latter-day Saints in the French Mission; and, as in most Continental countries, we found our members occupying respectable, comfortable halls. In Lausanne, the place of meeting, was a splendid structure and the assembly room was an inspiration with its beautifully polished woodwork and floors. A special feature of our meeting here was an elaborately constructed chart showing the vicissitudes of the Relief Society since its beginning. The increase in activity and achievement within the past two years seemed nothing short of phenomenal, and gave us much encouragement. We feel that great credit is due to Sister Rossiter, under whose able supervision the work throughout the entire mission has made such rapid strides. Elder Parker Pratt Warner was in charge of the spirited meeting of the Relief Societies held on Saturday night in Lausanne. We had time only for a tantalizing glimpse of this lovely town with but an hour or so between our arrival and time for meeting, but we made a choice between seeing and eating in favor of the former. At its close we proceeded to Geneva by late train.
We were made to feel the same delightful sense of freedom in this mission home that we had felt at other mission headquarters, and we are thoroughly convinced that this "homey" feeling is quite a characteristic of such places of abode among our people.
In Geneva, on Sunday afternoon, four members were added to the Church. A simple yet very impressive service was held preceding the baptisms, and at its close, the candidates stepped
198 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
bravely down into the waters of Lake Geneva and came forth with deeply grateful hearts, unto a veritable newness of life. The evening service was devoted largely to Mutual Improvement topics. All were delighted to have as one speaker the Editor of the Deseret News, Brother Harold Goff who, as a guest of the Carnegie Endowment Fund for International Peace, had enjoyed the splendid opportunities afforded to visit different countries.
Several weeks of preparation had been made for the Relief Society gathering held in Geneva on Monday night. The musical numbers, under the direction of Branch President Cope, were excellent; the dramatization of "The Ten Virgins" by members of the Society, was very commendable, as was indeed the superior work of the Society as a whole, as set forth in the carefully prepared report of its Relief Society Branch President.
On Tuesday, Sister Rossiter and I traveled to Lyons, France, where the final Conference was held in the evening at the attractive home of Sister Barthemeuf, with district and branch presidents Harold S. Cole, and S. Hensley Cortez, in charge. Though the membership is not as large as in most other places visited, there was a wonderful spirit and the meeting was one long to be remembered. Preceding the meeting we had a magnificent view of Lyons, from a high tower, which is in size and importance foremost among the cities of France. It is a great industrial center for silk manufacture, and its marvelous products are sent throughout the civilized world.
After the meeting, Sister Rossiter and the devoted corps of missionaries who labor in that District, accompanied me to the station to wave adieu as long as the train was in sight; and thus ended another delightful chapter in my book of rich experiences.
To President and Sister Rossiter, for their efficient and devoted efforts, to their daughter, Betty, and to all the missionaries and members who were so thoughtful and helpful, and so generous with flowers and other gifts, I shall always feel deeply grateful.
After a few days in Italy, I reached England in time to be at the Norwich Conference while enroute to Liverpool, and among the messages brought from headquarters was the cablegram telling of our release and the appointment of Brother and Sister Widtsoe. There was much joy in the thought of an honorable release, and of the home-going, but mingled with the joy there was a tinge of regret at facing the prospect of permanent separation from our numerous warm friends; but as was said in the beginning, missionaries who labor in the Master's service are subject to call, whether to go or to return—grateful always for the blessed privilege and opportunity of being among the ones who are "called."
Dr. Emmeline B. Wells Memorial
A most unique and truly significant occasion was the impressive ceremony of the unveiling of the statue of Mrs. Emmeline B. Wells, which occurred Wednesday afternoon, February twenty-ninth, at the State Capitol, marking the one hundredth anniversary of the birth of Mrs. Wells. The statue was the gift to the state from the women of the state, in loving remembrance of Mrs. Wells's outstanding service to humanity, especially to women. "Aunt Em," as she was affectionately called, was one of the great women of the century, known far and near as the unfailing advocate and the undaunted champion of every movement calculated for the advancement of her sex and the betterment of the human race. She loved all things that were good—youth, intelligence, beauty, virtue, art and nature, and was herself the epitome of all the charm and virtues of womanhood. She gave of her unusual gifts freely and unselfishly to mankind, and the beautiful tribute now erected in her honor not only perpetuates in human memory the charms and attainments of a distinguished woman, but expresses for the thousands who contributed to it the affection and admiration felt for one who to them typifies their highest ideals.
The movement for the tribute started in November, 1927, when Dr. Jane W. Skolfield, a dear friend and admirer of Mrs. Wells, remembering that the one hundredth anniversary of her birth was close at hand, invited a number of friends to meet and consider how best to celebrate the occasion. There was a gratifying response to the invitation, and after many of those present expressed their love and appreciation for Aunt Em, many giving personal reminiscences of her helpfulness, it was decided that the day should be commemorated not only by a gathering of friends with fragrant memories, but also that it should in some appropriate way mark an epoch for women in the state. It was then and there decided to have a marble bust of Aunt Em executed
200 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
by Cyrus E. Dallin, one of Utah's gifted sons, and to present it to the state as a gift from the women. At this meeting the Emmeline B. Wells Centennial Memorial Association was organized with Dr. Jane W. Skolfield as chairman; Mrs. F. S. Richards, first vice-chairman; Mrs. Sol Siegel, second vice-chairman; Mrs. E. O. Howard, third vice-chairman; Mrs. Richard R. Lyman, fourth vice-chairman; Mrs. Mary Kelly Pye, secretary; Mrs. Ernest Bamberger, treasurer; and Mrs. Alonzo B. Irvine, assistant treasurer; Mrs. Georgiana Marriott of Ogden, chairman of the advisory committee; and the names of many prominent women as patrons. Thus was the campaign launched, and under the able direction of the chairman, Dr. Skolfield, it was brought to a most delightful and satisfactory completion.
The plan was to reach all the women of the state regardless of position in life, religion or any other condition, and to give them all an opportunity to become identified with the project. To this end chairmen were appointed in all the counties of the state, and these chairmen reached the women through their various clubs and organizations. Weekly meetings were held by the central committee to hear reports and attend to the many details that claimed attention from time to time. The committee had the hearty assistance of the state officials, notably the Board of Examiners, consisting of Governor George H. Dern, Secretary of State H. E. Crockett, and Attorney General Harvey H. Cluff, with whose permission and under whose direction the proposed statue was to be given a place in the State Capitol. As finally located, the bust of Mrs. Wells occupies the northwest niche in the rotunda; the first statue to be placed in Utah's hall of fame.
On the occasion of the unveiling, an assemblage of several hundred people, including many in high positions in Church and state, filled the rotunda, the stairs, and galleries. The exercises were presided over by Mrs. C. E. Maw, president of the state federation of women's clubs, who in a brief address extolled the work and life of Mrs. Wells. The Ogden chorus of the Daughters of Utah Pioneers in pioneer costume sang "Our Utah Pioneers," after which President Heber J. Grant gave the invocation. "Our Mountain Home So Dear" was then sung by a quartet under the direction of Mrs. Emma Ramsey Morris. The words of this lovely little hymn were by Mrs. Wells, while the music was composed by Professor Evan Stephens, who was present and played the accompaniment. Following a beautiful selection by a string orchestra under the direction of Mrs. Margaret Lyman Schreiner, Dr. Jane W. Skolfield, in a tender and touching manner, presented the statue to the state. Addressing the Governor, she told of the
DR. EMMELINE B. WELLS 201
fine service of Mrs. Wells through the long years, her culture, her motherhood, her literary attainments, mentioning that she was the first person in the state to receive an honorary collegiate degree from a local educational institution when at the advanced age of eighty-four she was thus honored by the Brigham Young University—with the degree of doctor of literature. Dr. Skolfield spoke of Aunt Em's remarkable personality, drawing a picture of her as thousands present might remember—her frail, slight, almost ethereal figure in soft silks and pastel shades, threading her way among friends with all the grace and dignity of a queen.
Mrs. Emmeline C. Martineau, a granddaughter and namesake of Mrs. Wells, then unveiled the statue by drawing aside the gorgeous silk curtains which had concealed it, and there was an intense and breathless moment preceding the Governor's response, as all gazed on the beautiful likeness in its classic, marble setting.
Governor Dern, in accepting the gift for the state, said that he saw in these ceremonies an example of how the people still loved to honor a life and character so endowed and so well employed as Mrs. Wells had been; for she measured up well to the standards of greatness to which the people all yield their homage. It is significant, he remarked, that the first statue to be placed in Utah's pantheon should be that of a woman—this bespeaks the high estate which woman holds in this commonwealth and is notice to the world that nowhere is a good woman held in loftier esteem than here. The speaker declared that Mrs. Wells deserves the unique distinction accorded her; for she typifies the pioneer woman whose character always excites unstinted admiration, enduring hardships in transforming the wilderness from the rude state to a civilized community of homes; that she was a pioneer woman of the intellectual type also. Her interest extended beyond the state, and national leaders acknowledged the value of her help in forward looking movements for the welfare of womankind. Governor Dern then accepted the gift in behalf of the state and gave assurance that it would always have a place of honor in the Capitol, where it will serve as an inspiration to future generations. In conclusion he expressed gratitude to the committee and others who had aided in perpetuating the memory of so distinguished and lovable a woman.
After the reading of some of Mrs. Wells' verses by Mrs. Don C. Coray, and an expression of gratitude from the family, by Mr. Junius F. Wells, the exercises concluded with the singing of "America."
The rotunda of the Capitol was made attractive with potted palms and plants. A beautiful silk national flag was near the statue, while the state flag hung back of the speakers. Red and white roses in an antique vase were on the piano, over which was
202 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
draped "Aunt Em's" familiar Paisley shawl. The curtains used in the unveiling were the portieres made for the woman's building at the World's Fair in Chicago in 1893. They are of Utah silk embroidered in sego lilies, and are now one of the rare historic possessions of the state.
It is gratifying to contemplate and to commend the vision and devotion of the women who have made this memorial a glorious fact. Not only have they honored the memory of a great woman; they have in this act honored all women. They have enriched their own state with a beautiful work of art by a master hand; and they have marked out a luminous path that other states may well follow in perpetuating in pure, imperishable stone, the loftiest, holiest ideals of womanhood.
Charity By Elva P. Bushman
That bit of something Which clings like frost upon the board, That bit of love and friendship Which we hoard.
That love which binds one to his fellow-man, That beckons and leads on Through life's brief span;
Yea, in disgrace, and direst hell That hand of friendship beckons on To break the spell.
That love which binds through time and all eternity— That is the thing which man may call True charity.
THE RELIEF SOCIETY OF THE CHURCH OF JESUS CHRIST OF LATTER-DAY SAINTS
Motto—Charity Never Faileth
THE GENERAL BOARD
MRS. CLARISSA SMITH WILLIAMS - - - - President MRS. JENNIE BRIMHALL KNIGHT - - - - - First Counselor MRS. LOUISE YATES ROBISON - - - - - - Second Counselor MRS. AMY BROWN LYMAN - - - - - General Secretary and Treasurer
Mrs. Emma A. Empey Mrs. Julia A. F. Lund Mrs. Julia A. Child Mrs. Nettie D. Bradford Mrs. Rosannah C. Irvine Mrs. Annie Wells Cannon Mrs. Jeanette A. Hyde Mrs. Amy Whipple Evans Mrs. Cora L. Bennion Mrs. Elise B. Alder Miss Alice Louise Reynolds Mrs. Lalene H. Hart Miss Sarah M. McLelland Mrs. Ethel Reynolds Smith Mrs. Inez K. Allen Mrs. Lotta Paul Baxter Mrs. Barbara Howell Richards Mrs. Ida P. Beal Mrs. Lizzie Thomas Edward, Music Director Miss Edna Coray, Organist
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
Editor - - - - CLARISSA SMITH WILLIAMS Associate Editor - - - - ALICE LOUISE REYNOLDS Assistant Manager - - - - - Amy Brown Lyman
Room 28, Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah
Magazine entered as second-class matter at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah
Vol. XV APRIL, 1928 No. 4
EDITORIAL
The First Editor's Birthday
A prim little woman with keen eyes and a smile that lights up her countenance sometimes frequents our office. On the eighth day of April, 1928, she will be seventy-nine years of age. Should you meet her casually you would not suspect such a thing for there are still dark hairs among the gray and there is no sign of falter in her step. It is a long time since she did the editorial work on the Woman's Exponent in a room in the house of Lorenzo D. Young in the Eighteenth Ward, when Zina D. Young, Eliza R. Snow, Mary Isabelle Horne and Sarah M. Kimball gave her such staunch support. Lula Greene Richards was a mere girl then with dark curls and florid cheeks. Fate did not decree that she should long be the editor of the paper, for one day there happened into her office a young man by the name of Levi W. Richards who evidently fell in love with her. In any event, she was wedded to him on the sixteenth day of June, 1873, just one year and sixteen days after the first issue of the paper.
She tells us that among those who contributed in early days to the magazine were Lou Lee Dalton, a sister of Mrs. George Sutherland, and Mrs. Ellen Jakeman, Mary Cook, sister of Ida
204 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
Cook, Mary J. Tanner, mother of J. M. Tanner, Eliza R. Snow who wrote a history of the Relief Society which was published in some of the early numbers.
Since Sister Richards' marriage her home has been in the Twentieth Ward in Salt Lake City. Her family consisted of three daughters and four sons. Mrs. Richards' experience is a contradiction to the maxim that boys are harder to rear than girls, for her four sons have grown to manhood while her three daughters died at very tender ages. It was in the days when she was rearing her little family that we first knew her; in the days when her mother-in-law, who lived near her, gained the admiration of all the young people because of her white silk bonnets and capes of crimson velvet and other colorful materials. She used to come to my mother's home sometimes. There was always a benign smile and soft, tender words, for Lula Greene Richards has always been an example of self-control. Lee, the little boy with the curly hair, is now a man of fifty and an artist of outstanding reputation. As Mrs. Richards rocks back and forth in her comfortable living room she has before her, always, a life like portrait of her husband painted by her gifted son. Her son Willard has his mother's gift, that of writing verse. Evan is a dentist and Heber a member of the English faculty of the University of Utah.
It is a matter of more than passing interest that this issue of the Magazine that contains the story of the placing of the bust of Emmeline B. Wells, in the hall of fame, at the Utah State Capitol, should also contain the story of Mrs. Richards' seventy-ninth birthday. These two women first met at a dinner given by Mrs. Elizabeth Hyde. They were the only guests. When Mrs. Richards turned to the duties of her home life it was Emmeline B. Wells who assumed the responsibility of editor. Long life is a blessing extended by our Heavenly Father to both these gifted women whose names must ever appear in the spotlight whenever the periodicals of the Relief Society are discussed.
We congratulate our first editor on having reached her seventy-ninth birthday, enjoying the vigor of mind and body which is hers. We trust there are other joyous years ahead of her; and that she may each day partake of a full measure of our Father's blessings.
The Memorial Theatre at Stratford-on-Avon
For a number of years American students and lovers of drama have been reading a play by George Middleton called "Nowadays." The plot of the play is concerned with a young woman who has artistic ability and who enters a contest for a statue which is to be placed in the city hall in her home town. The heroine wins
EDITORIAL 205
first place because her sketch, all things considered, is the most desirable. In the selection of the plan for the new Shakespearean Memorial Theatre at Stratford-on-Avon, we have the realization of this story. Miss Elizabeth Scott, who is the "daughter of a Bournemouth doctor," is only twenty-nine years of age. In accepting her plan the committee seemed to feel that it incorporates more desirable features than does any other plan submitted. In fact, George Bernard Shaw, the dean of English playwrights, stated that Miss Scott's was the only plan that had "theatre sense." He meant that she had grasped the essentials of the interior of a theatre as well as those of the exterior.
Women everywhere will feel proud of Miss Scott's achievement. Women are lovers of the stage, and among outstanding dramatic stars there are many women. Shakespeare's women stand out conspicuously; the mere mention of them will bring to mind those who have successfully played Shakespearean roles. The names of Ellen Terry, Lady Tree, Laura Cowey, Julia Marlowe, Genevieve Hamper, and Jane Cowl will suggest others who, in England and the United States, have starred in Shakespearean roles. It may suffice to say Miss Scott's achievement is exceedingly pleasing to women, many of whom will look forward to visiting the new Memorial Theatre at Stratford on its completion.
On the Stratford stage at the present time one may see the best talent of London; since it is possible for the foremost English players to put on a performance in Stratford in the afternoon and return to London in the evening in time to fill an engagement in the city theatres.
The Purchase of the Hill Cumorah
We hear a great deal at the present time about doing things at the psychic moment. Certainly the Church is to be congratulated on having selected the psychic moment for the purchase of the Hill Cumorah. It is quite the custom to select the centenary of an event in which to do some outstanding thing in commemoration of the event; and to commemorate the centenary of the coming forth of the Book of Mormon the Church elected to do the one thing appropriate and satisfying above all others. Any other act in connection with the event might have fallen short of imparting the same satisfaction. As it is, a deep-seated desire of the Latter-day Saints has been fulfilled. Thousands of them have already visited the hill, and it is safe to say that the desire to visit this place will increase. As interest deepens in the Book of Mormon, so will the feeling for the sacredness of the place from which the plates were taken. To the Latter-day Saint this place can never be other than a hallowed spot.
206 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
Cooperation from the Northern States Mission
In the January issue we took occasion to express our appreciation to the stakes for the many ways in which they had added to and enriched the lesson work. Now we are under similar obligation to the Northern States Mission and Mrs. Rachel Grant Taylor for her thoughtfulness in furnishing us the meritorious program written by Mrs. Nelle Talmage.
The purpose behind the February issue was to present such material as could be made use of for the 17th of March. Into this scheme the contribution from the Northern States Mission fitted perfectly. That it is meeting the demand of the stakes is apparent from the fact that already numerous inquiries have reached the office, which carry the information that the stakes are making use of the material.
The Relief Society was created for service. In just such matters as we have here related the opportunity is afforded for the part to be thoroughly helpful to the whole. The Northern States Mission, through its president, recognized this opportunity. The result is that all the missions, as well as the stakes, are made partakers of an outstanding piece of work which had its birth in the Northern States Mission.
Mrs. Jeanette A. Hyde Visits Utah
Recently Mrs. Jeanette A. Hyde, member of the General Board and Collector of Customs at the Port of Hawaii, made a visit to Salt Lake City on her way and returning from Washington where she went on matters concerning the department. She seemed to feel that her visit had been highly satisfactory. As women in the state of Utah, we are proud of Mrs. Hyde's work. A few months ago we published an article from the Christian Science Monitor, a paper held in very high regard by thinking people. The Monitor had sent one of its representatives for an interview. The interview revealed the fact that Mrs. Hyde is efficiently administering the affairs of the Port. What she is achieving has never before been achieved in that port. We are interested in Mrs. Hyde's work and particularly gratified at the success with which she has handled the liquor and drug traffic. With her associates she has made a reputation for apprehending liquor; and whenever it is discovered she is courageous enough, as collector of Customs, to destroy it in the presence of the offender. This is encouraging news. The liquor interests at present are striving to destroy the effect of the eighteenth amendment and perchance to repeal it if that be in their power. If more officials had the courage that Mrs. Hyde manifests, we should not
EDITORIAL 207
be facing our present difficulties in relation to the enforcement of the prohibition law.
On the Hawaiian Islands, Mrs. Hyde has had an unusual opportunity to see the effects of the drug habit. The anxiety she expresses in relation to this habit has come as a result of seeing how destructive the habit is. She had heard so many tragic stories of victims striving without success to overcome their longing for drugs that she sometimes wondered whether or not the habit could be successfully overcome.
The members of the General Board celebrated Washington's Birthday at a luncheon in Mrs. Hyde's honor given in the President's Suite at the Hotel Utah. The table decorations consisted of a ship filled with flowers. The birthday of Washington was observed by paying honor to a woman who is in the employ of the United States Government.
President Williams Expresses Appreciation
Many letters of sympathy and condolence have reached the home of President Clarissa Smith Williams in the interval since the passing of her husband, Senator William N. Williams. For all of these expressions of sympathy and love she is deeply grateful. Letters have come to her from far and near. It would take many months to answer these communications even if it were possible under any circumstances. Consequently, Sister Williams is taking this opportunity of expressing her heart-felt thanks to all who have extended the hand of comfort and blessing to her in her hour of trial.
Spring By Lulu W. Nelson
Spring comes stealing, Don't you feel its subtle presence in the air? Note the feeling.— Love triumphant, resurrection, life abounding Everywhere.
Grasses growing; Flowerets showing dainty faces to the sun. Brooklets flowing Down the hillside, through the meadows, murmuring softly As they run.
The Abundant Harvest By Mary Hale Woolsey
Gray were the skies, and gray were the fields upon which gray rain descended. Not a beam of sunlight had that day found its way to brighten a single corner of Gaetha Langley's world. It was, she reflected, entirely fitting; and yet—yet, remembering cold drops falling upon a silent casket as it was lowered into the waiting grave,—remembering the dull thud of wet black sod falling into place upon it—remembering these, Gaetha would have given worlds if that casket might have been touched by one single farewell ray of the light that Nona had so passionately loved.
Nona had been so like a sunbeam herself! To think of her now——laid to rest out there beneath sodden earth and leaden skies, brought to Gaetha an agony that it seemed she could not bear. There was not, she mused, a single ray of brightness in all her world.
But a sudden sound from the room behind her, attracted her attention and she turned with a choking sob. From beneath a pink blanket on the couch, a chubby dimpled hand extended and waved to and fro experimentally. With a convulsive movement, Gaetha caught the child to her breast, pressed the tiny hand to her lips. The baby gurgled gleefully and then struggled against the too close embrace. Gaetha relaxed and bent her head so that the little fingers might entangle themselves in her hair.
No, there was this ray of sunshine. Nona's baby!
She sat down in a rocker and let the child play with her fingers while together they rocked slowly to and fro, and silent moments dragged by while the rain pitted itself endlessly against the cold window-panes and night-shadows crept gloomily over the landscape. At last the babe grew fretful, and Gaetha roused herself from her brooding and set about preparing her supper; but still the woman's gloomy thoughts were not dispelled. She felt a helpless bitterness against life; cheated, robbed, beaten—what was there left to live for?
The answer came in a ripple of gurgling laughter, in the gleam of tiny pearly teeth as little rosebud lips parted in innocent merriment. There was—Nona's baby. One more solitary bond holding her to a lonely existence.
Strange * * * There had always been—just one.
"And the baby, Mrs. Langley?" "Why, I shall keep her, of course. I should think there
THE ABUNDANT HARVEST 209
would be no question whatever as to my claim on her." Gaetha's tone implied a lack of understanding as to why the question ever had been asked.
Her caller sat for a moment in silence. Mrs. Paulsen was not over-enthusiastic regarding the object of her visit; but she felt duty-bound and she always tried to follow wherever duty led.
"Of course, Mrs. Langley, your 'claim,' as you put it, is a strong enough one. But we others of the Langley people feel that there is another consideration. Er—Well, religiously, you know how different your views are from those held by this baby's mother. Her religion meant the world—and more—to her! Do you think she would wish her little daughter to grow up with—with convictions like yours? Gaetha Langley, Nona's heart would have been broken—quite broken—at the mere thought of her child ever denying a belief in God and the Christ. Don't you think so?"
Gaetha's hands grew rigid in her lap; the color receded from her face. Her eyes, with a strained, burning look, were fastened on those of her visitor. Mrs. Paulsen stirred uneasily, but she persisted.
"Your right to claim the child is undisputed, Mrs. Langley. But surely you can see—Nona's love for her religion was all-absorbing; I am sure she would wish her daughter to be brought up in the same faith—"
Gaetha Langley leaned forward and it seemed that her words poured from her lips: "I intend that she shall be, Mrs. Paulsen. Oh, if you could only know—if I could only tell you, how I long to believe, as Nona did!"
"Listen, Mrs. Paulsen, I would give anything I have—all I have—if only I could believe that there is a Christ. But all my life—all my father's life, I mean—he taught me that there is none. That no loving, just, all-powerful God would permit the sorrows and griefs of life to descend upon his beloved children as griefs and sorrows do fall. He taught me that it was folly to believe in God, because an all-wise God would be compassionate, merciful—while facts show that there is only trouble, bereavement, loss. There were my father and mother, worshiping each other! Would a loving God have taken her away, leaving him to spend those long, lonely years without her? There were my young husband and I—Ralston was snatched away almost before we could realize that we had been wed—and we so rich in love for each other. He, too, was an ardent believer; I hoped that he might have helped me to see as he did. But he was taken away. Father's influence was renewed; there was no refuting his arguments, for he always had new examples to prove his views, and he seemed to know every discrepancy in 'God's Book' itself, or to make discrepancies seem
210 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
to be there—if you prefer to put it that way. I could not help believing that he must speak the truth. I cannot now—his teachings are the strongest influence in my life.
"But, Mrs. Paulsen, I envy those who do believe in God. They find so much joy in their faith—joy and comfort and serenity. Oh, if only I, too, could know that—if only I could believe!
"There is so much in what one is taught when young. And I would never, never pass on to anyone these teachings that destroy faith. They cause only unhappiness; my father was a wretched man, and I have always been unhappy most of my life. I don't know one of father's friends who shared his disbelief, who was not sad and bitter. Nona's baby shall be taught to believe—I wish she might never know that I do not. All that her Church can give her, she shall have; all that I can give her, all that friends can give—it shall be favorable to sincere belief in a Supreme Being of goodness and love. She shall live in the sunshine of faith, and never know, if I can help it, that there is such a thing as 'outer darkness.'"
As Gaetha's voice lowered and ceased, the only sound in the room was the ticking of the clock on the mantel, between the two silver-framed photographs of the men who had had parts in Gaetha's life: her father, whose face was deeply lined with bitterness and sadness, whose heavy gray hair seemed somehow to add to his general appearance of stern, sour, disillusioned old age; and Ralston Langley, who had been killed in a run-away a week following his marriage to Gaetha. Her eyes, always dark with tragedy, now sought his eyes in the picture and passed tenderly over the handsome boyish face that had been so alight with youthful hope and ambition.
Mrs. Paulsen was silent, feeling as if Gaetha had lifted aside a curtain and let her gaze for a few moments upon an anguished soul. Not so much in the words—for Gaetha was too much the repressed Puritan to express clearly or forcefully her emotion; but Mrs. Paulsen had sensed more than she had listened to, and she seemed to think of a helpless child thrust into a dark room and left alone and sobbing for its parents who could not come to it.
She laid her hand on Gaetha's, sympathetically; but at the touch Gaetha stiffened and the moment of revelation was over.
For long years afterward, Mrs. Paulsen seldom thought of Gaetha Langley without hearing in her memory that repressed cry, "Oh, if only I could believe!"
"It seems so simple!" the good lady would sigh to herself. "Why can't she believe if she wants to?" But puzzling over the question, day after day, she found a parallel in her own life, in her hesitancy to disregard certain old superstitions which her parents and grandparents had observed. "I know it's foolish—but these things that you're told when you're young and im-
THE ABUNDANT HARVEST 211
pressionable—how they do stay with you!" It was then, as if a light had suddenly flashed before her, that she understood Gaetha Langley's position. "It's a shame! He destroyed her powers of belief; his positive, know-it-all teachings can't quite be thrown off, and she's afraid of fooling herself. Oh, if one could only help her! But she's mostly so hard to talk to, so aloof. * * *"
And thus Mrs. Paulsen would meditate, and wish, and occasionally pray for Gaetha. But there was no further move toward removing Nona's baby from Gaetha's custody and care. Mrs. Paulsen was able, efficiently, to see to that.
And so Gaetha had, again, her single purpose that saved her life from being utterly useless. Through the years, the little Nona grew out of her babyhood, passed the days of childhood; climbed steadily the stairs of life toward maturity. She was fairly idolized by Aunt Gaetha, but never was little maid more sweet or unspoiled. She was her mother over again; the image in looks and ways of Ralston Langley's little orphaned sister whom Gaetha had cared for after the death of the elder Mrs. Langley, when Nona had been sixteen. There had been only a short absence after Nona's marriage for she was widowed before her baby was born, and it was to Gaetha that she turned for aid and comfort. And then there were a few months when Gaetha had "mothered" both Nona and her wee daughter * * * and then Nona had gone, too, and once more Gaetha bowed, but bitterly, to the will of fate. * * *
So now there was another Nona, her mother over again with an intensified beauty and love of beauty, which added sweetness and passion for good.
It was easy for Nona to be "Christian." From the time that her baby lips could utter the words, prayer was as natural to her as breathing. Aunt Gaetha, teaching her the first little, set, rhymed prayers, used to tremble lest the child sense the mechanical quality of her praying, the insincerity she felt; but "Belief" seemed to be so inherently a part of the child's being, that she never questioned any phase of it, and Gaetha rejoiced in the sunny, trustful faith that grew with the years.
Nona was fourteen when the inevitable revelation of the truth came about. She had innocently suggested Aunt Gaetha as a teacher for her Sunday school class. Surprised and puzzled at the reception of her suggestion, she demanded explanation—and got it, in an embarrassed, stammering, incomplete way that sent her scurrying home to Gaetha herself to seek admission or denial.
The first tears that Gaetha Langley had shed in years, mingled with Nona's as they clung together in those moments of Nona's consuming disappointment. Then they tried to get down to a quiet talk that would explain each one's position, and at last
212 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
Gaetha's terror that Nona's faith might be weakened, was entirely calmed. For the girl put her delicate little hands on each side of her aunt's face and held it so that their eyes looked directly into each other's.
"Auntie Gaetha, I think you're wonderful, anyway. Most people would have been hard and bitter—but you've done everything you could to help me know that there is a Father in Heaven who is loving me and caring for me always, and will some day take me again to my lovely mother and my father. I think it must be terrible to feel like everything is just chance in life, and not planned at all; but do you know, Auntie, I think that deep down in your heart there is a spark—a big spark—of your own faith. Wrong teachings have covered it with ashes of disbelief; but sometime, we'll find some word of explanation that will be like a strong wind blowing the ashes away, and the spark will grow into a flame, and as quickly as that"—she snapped her slender fingers—"you'll know. I'm going to help you find that word, Auntie—I'll never stop searching until I find it."
Gaetha sat helpless with amazement. Was this Nona, who had come to her so like a little child a few moments before? This upturned face, framed in bright curls, was the face of a woman, young, but with an expression of responsibility, of determination, of purposefulness, that made it seem, to Gaetha, almost maternal. She could not speak, but drew Nona into her lap and sat for a long time holding her close.
They talked often, after that, on the subject which meant so much to both of them. Nona was so full of youthful fervor, so sure and secure in her own faith, that Gaetha would be held spellbound while the girl was speaking. But then Gaetha's eyes, lifting her eyes to her father's picture, would see his stern features seem to grow sterner yet, and his voice, with all its old magnetism, its old power, would seem to resound in her ears: "Trash—all of it! Trash for superstitious fools! There is no God!" * * * And Gaetha would sigh, and Nona's voice would cease its sweet pleading; and they would wait until another day.
"Sometime, Aunt Gaetha," Nona said once, "We'll find just the right word—you know how it is: we can hear a thing over and over, but until it's said just right, we don't understand. I'll not stop searching until I find just the word that will make you understand!"
There was a ring of prophetic depth in her tone that thrilled Gaetha and set her to marveling at the girl's power over her.
The days passed. The miracle of spring, which Nona saw as a proof of immortality; the richness of a summer unsurpassed for beauty and bountiful growth. Rain came generously, pests and blights were singularly rare. And Autumn came, on blazing wings of gold and scarlet.
THE ABUNDANT HARVEST 213
The passing months had seen no abatement of Nona's enthusiasm for her self-appointed mission. Often Gaetha found herself on the point of professing conviction merely to see the light leap up in Nona's eyes—"But she'd know I was deceiving her; I must not try to fool us both," she decided, and wondered whether her father's teachings or Nona's youthful arguments would ever triumph over her own doubts and fears.
Then one day the tragedy that always seems to stalk near, entered Gaetha's life again. Nona, hurrying homeward with unusual eagerness, ran lightly into the street—directly ahead of an approaching streak of gray and blue polished nickel—there was the screech of brakes, too late—a horrified gasp from spectators—and a moment later Nona was being lifted from the dust, bruised, bleeding and unconscious.
Gaetha Langley admitted the silent procession wordlessly. Her lips were stiff; her heart seemed turned to ashes. Beside the white bed where Nona was laid, she waited the coming of the doctor. Someone was trying to tell her how the accident had occurred; the words beat meaninglessly against her eardrums. * * *
The doctor shook his head. "There is a chance * * * but that is all * * * I fear—"
The word was passed along. Outside, where a group of friends and neighbors had gathered, women and girls sobbed. Gaetha heard the sound with a sort of wonderment * * * she felt so weary, so old; her movements were purely mechanical, she could speak no word still.
Through an interminable night and day they watched by Nona's bedside. At last consciousness returned; weakly she spoke, recognizing those around her, and a ray of hope pierced the atmosphere of despair. Nona seemed suddenly eager.
"I want to talk to Aunt Gaetha." The doctor hesitated, then assented, with a warning, "Not too much effort, though, Mrs. Langley," to Gaetha as he motioned the nurse to leave the room with him.
"Auntie Gaetha," Nona began, with a pathetic excitement, "I know just how everything happened. I was hurrying so, I just couldn't stop—oh, auntie, I found something for you—I know it's just what we've been looking for! It's a poem—I copied it and put it in my 'lit' book—find it, please, Aunt Gaetha—if only it didn't get lost—"
She was half striving to rise from her pillow, but fearfully Gaetha restrained her and went to find the book, which someone had picked up and brought to her after the accident. Nona made a second effort to rise when Gaetha returned, and as Gaetha hurried to her with a warning, Nona understood and smiled tenderly.
214 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
"You aren't going to lose me, Aunt Gaetha," she murmured. "The Father—knows just how you need me!"
"The Father * * * *" Across the span of years, the voice of Gaetha's father echoed harshly: "A Father—who takes away those most needed here. Fools!" She felt a sense of dread creeping over her. * * * But Nona was speaking again.
"Find it, Auntie—I can't wait for you to read it!" Gaetha turned the pages of the text-book obediently. She wondered dully what Nona could have found—but presently she was holding the piece of folded paper on which Nona had copied a few short verses. Nona lay watching her; her eyes were bright and shining.
"There is no unbelief!" The words seemed to leap at Gaetha from the page; they might almost have been blazoned in letters of flame. She grasped the bedpost to steady herself, but read on:
"There is no unbelief; Whoever plants a seed beneath the sod, And waits to see it push away the clod, He trusts in God."
Tears came to Gaetha's eyes. This—this!—was what Nona was bringing to her, eagerly, exultantly sure that it held that enlightening word for which she had sought, when she had been—struck down. In that moment of exaltation, of supreme joy and faith—in that moment—the accident—had happened.
A blurred vision of her father's face appeared before her; his sarcastic voice—"Fools!" But Nona was waiting, breathlessly, her eyes like twin stars. Her eyes said, plainly, "Hurry and read! You can't fail to see now!"
With her lips compressed, Gaetha read the rest of the poem. Never had she felt less inclined to open her mind to receive light—but at the last verse she suddenly halted, re-read it and then read it again, with a swift intaking of breath that drew Nona's attention and heightened her excitement.
"* * * day by day, and night, unconsciously, The heart lives by that faith the lips deny— God knoweth why!"
The paper fell from Gaetha's hand. Nona's clutched it tightly.
"Isn't it, Aunt Gaetha? Isn't it just right?" she demanded. And then without waiting for an answer, she went on eagerly: "It's so lovely—so beautiful—and it fits you so exactly. You wanted to believe—that was your heart saying you do really believe. And all those other things you'd been told—they were only 'lips denying.' This explains everything—but let's not talk
THE ABUNDANT HARVEST 215
any more now, I can wait—I'm so sure, anyway, you wouldn't need to tell me at all, only that I want to hear you say it.—But I want to sleep now—I can sleep now; Aunt Gaetha, you've no idea how tired I am!"
With a sigh she closed her eyes; but her smile lingered as she fell asleep.
Gaetha experienced a final moment of overwhelming fear, which was calmed as she noticed Nona's easy, regular breathing. The doctor re-entered the room, looked closely at his patient, and his gravity relaxed somewhat. He gave a few brief instructions, which Gaetha hardly heard, and withdrew.
Gaetha looked again at the slip of paper which she had again picked up. And suddenly there was a rush of blinding tears. "She was hurrying to me—with this—oh, my darling!
"The heart lives by that faith the lips deny—God in Heaven, if you are there, let me know it somehow! Don't let this child's sweet efforts be in vain. If my heart 'lives by faith——'"
Gaetha stopped, in wonderment. She was praying—from the depths of her heart; not mechanically, not even consciously, but confidently, as one who asks a boon from a Giver who will, without doubt, generously bestow. She felt a warm glow enveloping her; was it the "flame" being fanned, as Nona had said?
Stifling a sob lest it awaken the beautiful sleeper before her, she fell to her knees beside the bed. "Oh, my Father—I have wanted Thee so—I have wanted Thee so!" she whispered, as a child might have done. "Never let me lose Thee again—" her hand crept out and closed over Nona's—did she stir? No—except that there was surely a faint answering pressure of the slim fingers!
Gaetha bent forward until her head rested beside Nona's on the pillow. She felt no discomfort in her position; it seemed that physical sense was lost in that wonderful spiritual peace which encompassed her. Still kneeling, and smiling still, she fell asleep.

The western sky was aflame with amethyst and rose, flecked with clouds that seemed like billows of silver and violet shot with darts of gold. Long shadows crept over the fields and lawns where fallen leaves were strewn, turning brown and withering in the path of oncoming winter.
Gaetha Langley watched it from her doorway, drinking in the beauty of it with a glorious sense of comprehension and reverence. She did not realize that a man had entered the gate and come up the walk, until his voice roused her from her reverie:
"Evening, Mrs. Langley. How's the Nona girl getting along?"
"Splendidly, Mr. Barlow, thank you," Gaetha answered. "The doctor says she'll be around again very soon now."
216 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
"Glad to hear it—glad to hear it. My, it was a close call, Mrs. Langley. Miracle she's come through, isn't it?"
"Yes, it is indeed. We are very thankful."
"Well, we'll all join with you in thankfulness, Mrs. Langley—Well, I'll be getting on. Just passing—thought I'd inquire. Fine crops this year, aren't they?"
"Yes, indeed. The harvest is abundant," the woman replied as if in a trance.
Mr. Barlow turned back towards the street, reflecting that Mrs. Langley talked a bit queer and bookish-like, but then she always had been sort of odd. At the gate he glanced back. He thought that the woman on the porch was watching him, and walked a bit straighter and swifter because of the thought. * * *
But Gaetha, though her face was turned that way, saw him not at all. For she was thinking how, from her sowing of seeds of "comforting faith" in the little Nona, had sprung this amazing, glorious harvest for herself. And though she was joyously aware of the beauty of the landscape and of the sky, she had no words to express her pleasure, because all her words were busy with her thoughts, and together they had traveled far away—far, far, even beyond the sunset.
Soil for Potted Plants By Dr. Thomas L. Martin
A pleasant occupation for the winter time and one that pays big dividends in artistic appreciation and home comfort is that of growing potted plants in the home. Some find no trouble in growing a good, healthy plant, while others find it quite a task. The flower pot is small when one considers the amount of top growth. The root system is rather elaborate and draws heavily upon the sustenance within the soil; it is important, therefore, that the soil be the right kind and well supplied with the fertility required.
There are certain ways in which soils for potted plants may be prepared. A few suggestions are as follows: Take one part of an ordinary garden-loam soil, one part of turfy material from the lower part of a pasture sod, and one part of well rotted manure and sand, half and half, and mix well together. This should constitute a good, rich, friable soil for the growth of house plants. The soil must be loose and friable, should drain easily and not crust when water is applied. The above mixture answers these requirements.
THE ABUNDANT HARVEST 217
In the midst of the firs and spruces in our canyons, one may find forest mold. If the surface two inches is scraped away and the balance for twelve inches collected, one may secure a fine quality of soil for potting purposes. The first two inches contain many spiny leaves, which, during the first stages of decomposition, give off a number of poisons detrimental to plants; this is the reason for the removal of the surface.
Soils may be prepared quite readily during spare periods. In the spring, after grass has begun to grow well, remove the sod of an old blue-grass pasture, where soil is rich and deep. Cut the sod into strips a foot wide and three inches thick and place in thin layers; then place on top two or three inches of well rotted manure. Repeat until the soil is three to five feet high. Keep it wet for two or three years, then cut a slice through and mix with a little sand. Do this whenever new soil is needed. This will furnish, on hand at any time, a most excellent flower-pot soil.
In the preparation of flower pot soil it is well to use manure. Cow-yard manure is really the best. Secure it when it is old and friable. Fresh manure should never be used, its physical effect for flower pot soils being detrimental. Hen manure is too strong, and horse manure heats too much.
A little ground bone mixed with the soil is good. Also, when the plants are growing and show signs of paleness, they may be revived by the addition of a little ammonium sulphate at the rate of about one-half ounce to a gallon of water, added at the time of watering the plant. Paleness may be due to root binding. If this is the case, the plant must be removed to a larger pot. However, removal may be postponed awhile by the addition of a little ammonium sulphate.
These are suggestions for keeping the plants in our homes in a healthy state. Many people are interested in this daily chore and these hints should prove helpful to them.
God's Garden By Merling D. Clyde
Little yellow violets On a grassy hill, Blue and white for-get-me-nots Growing with a will;
Dainty little blossoms Lowly on the sod, Spreading gracious beauty, Tended just by God.
Notes from the Field By Amy Brown Lyman
Union Stake.
Three prospective Relief Society members arrived in Baker City January 20, in the persons of Mary Ellen, Margaret Lorraine and Mildred Linett, who were triplets born to Mrs. Ada Knowles Gray, an active Relief Society worker. The mother and babies are getting on nicely, and Union stake is proud of Mrs. Gray's contribution to the future membership of the Relief Society.
California Mission. (Monterey Branch)
CAST OF "THE RED LAMP," MONTEREY RELIEF SOCIETY
Miss Eva Gunther, a local missionary, writes that the Monterey Relief Society, which is a new branch, has fewer than 15 members. These members are energetic, however, and are accomplish-
NOTES FROM THE FIELD 219
ing much for the organization as well as for the Church in that locality. Through their helpfulness to those in need, they have become a valuable asset to the community. During the Christmas holidays a bazaar was held, and a play, "The Red Lamp," was presented. The entertainment proved to be most successful both financially and as an aid in the spread of missionary work. Friends who attended were so well pleased with it that they expressed not only a desire to become better acquainted with this special phase of the work, but also with the Gospel itself. These people had heard the teaching of the missionaries, but the realization that the principles are practiced has been impressed upon their minds through the Relief Society.
Northern States Mission. (Cincinnati Branch)
CINCINNATI RELIEF SOCIETY
The Cincinnati Relief Society has been a success ever since its organization, January 11, 1920, when it was a branch of the Southern States mission. Two years ago Ohio was added to the Northern States mission.
In December last year the Society held a bazaar, which brought over $100 net profit. Many sick and needy were assisted during the year, yet the yearly report showed $106 still in the treasury. The lessons as outlined in the Relief Society Magazine are followed strictly, and have proved their worth. The Magazine is greatly valued for the excellence of its contents.
The Society meets every Tuesday evening. The attendance is good, the harmony excellent. Many of the members have a long way to go, Cincinnati, like ancient Rome, being built upon seven hills. As a consequence there are many tiresome ups and downs, and those who live across the Ohio River have to pay bridge toll each way; and yet, in all kinds of weather, they come.
The Society has been favored with two visits by Mrs. Rachel G. Taylor, president of the Relief Societies of the Northern States mission, and her timely instructions and counsels have resulted in much good. The officers of the organization are seated in the front row of the picture. Reading from left to right, they are: Rosa Bang, 1st counselor; Christine Anderson, president; Bessie Horton, 2nd counselor; Lula Carpenter, secretary-treasurer.
Uintah Stake.
With a view of increasing subscriptions to the Relief Society Magazine, the stake board offered as a prize to the ward having the largest percent of its members as subscribers, six Relief Society song books. Three of the wards were tied, each having two subscriptions more than actual members. The board joyfully awarded each of these three wards six song books.
Fremont Stake. (In Memoriam)
Mrs. Sarah Jane Wilson Tempest, better known as "Grandma" Tempest, ended her useful career on January 9, 1928, at the age of 86. A faithful worker in the ward Relief Society, she was for many years its presiding officer. She formerly worked with the Y. L. M. I. A., as counselor, and held other church offices. "She was a real friend, a true christian, a faithful Latter-day Saint."
Many of the white-haired grandmothers who attended the funeral remembered "Grandma" Tempest when they were children, and when their parents or other dear relatives were ill or were laid away and they needed sympathy and help. Some of these had been her neighbors for over 40 years.
Mrs. Tempest's life has been varied and interesting. She was born in Stockport, England, and was blessed when a babe by Apostle Parley P. Pratt. Her parents afterwards went to Cadiz, Spain, where her father supervised a cotton mill. Afterward, returning to Hull, England, she was baptized at Grimsby by Elder Seymour B. Young in 1857. The family moved to Halifax, where she married a John Smith, by whom she had one child, Walter Smith, now a prominent citizen and a member of the Baptist church in Halifax, England. This marriage proved unhappy, and a separation followed. She left her native land on the sailing vessel "John Bright" in 1866. On her way to Utah she stopped at Nebraska City, where she resided for some time and met and married Phineas Tempest. Eight children were the result of this union. Funeral services were held for Mrs. Tempest in the First Ward church, which was beautifully decorated; and 16 flower girls laden with beautiful flowers from Utah, California, and Idaho bore evidence of the love of relatives and friends.
Guide Lessons for June
LESSON I Theology and Testimony (First Week in June)
THE DISPENSATION OF THE FULNESS OF TIMES Project of the Dispensation
Introduction. In the last lesson we discussed briefly some of the evident objectives of the Dispensation of the Fulness of Times. If our Theology teaches any one thing more than another, that one thing is that there is purpose in everything. When Dr. Karl G. Maeser said, "The Lord does nothing arbitrarily," he put in new form the statement of the Prophet Joseph Smith, "All kingdoms have a law." Even the accidents are governed by law; and it is upon the knowledge of this fact that insurance companies draw their lines of safety.
We now come to the consideration of projects of the dispensation. These are means and ways of reaching ends or objectives. The Kingdom of God is no pastime institution; it is a kingdom of projects. Purpose and project are the legs of the giant progress; they are the wings of the eagle of onwardness. It is better to leave projects for one's posterity than to leave them plenty to live on. Individuals without projects drift downward; a people without projects perish. In each and all of the dispensations. The Lord has provided project work and has led his people to initiating projects.
Project One. The Production of the Book of Mormon. A major project of several put on foot to reach the great purpose of flooding the world with light, such as the missionary project, the publication project, and the radio project of speeding the Gospel. Comparatively few agents were instrumental in putting over this first project; but what a work they accomplished! They gave to the world what was once derisively called the "Golden Bible;" but now, after a century of the severest test of fitness to survive. The book is spoken of with pride as the "American Bible," and declared to be one of the most famous books of this enlightened age. This product of the first project of the dispensation is a miracle in print; its production is a puzzle to the world, and ours
222 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
is the duty to study it; teach it to our children, speed it on its way as a complement of the Bible in the correction of error and the spreading of truth. Thereby we become joint heirs in the blessings of its production, under the irrevocable law that—To appreciate is next to having produced.
Project Two. The Organizing and Building up of the Church. Preparatory to the launching of this project, the Lord sent angels to commission men to speak and act for Him; and then under His special instructions the organization of the church was effected. The project was begun on Tuesday, the sixth day of April, eighteen hundred and thirty, and on that day sufficiently completed to give the church institutional standing with God and man. The divine authority with which the work was done, gave it divine standing, and the compliance with the law gave it legal human standing; but it took many years to complete the organization of the priesthood; and now, as it nears the end of the first century of its existence, the church has not reached its end in auxiliary organization. The charter members of the organization that has become a marvel and a wonder and is to endure forever were: Joseph Smith, Oliver Cowdery, Hyrum Smith, Peter Whitmer, Jr., David Whitmer, and Samuel H. Smith. In the building up of the Church, man has not been left alone; messengers from on high have helped. We are in the project of building it up—building beautiful homes, holy temples, edifices for worship, education, and recreation.
Project Three. Building Latter-day Saint Christian Character. From the first the training of youth has been an outstanding feature of this dispensation. The training of the Prophet Joseph Smith was a good one. The Lord had promised to "save up a seer." He used parents, and the parents used the word of God. Putting the scriptures into the hands of the boy was putting his hands onto the iron rod that led to the tree of life. The Foundation of L. D. S. Christian character is belief in Christ; belief in him as the son of God and the Resurrected Redeemer; belief in him as an ideal; belief in him and his Father as reachable sources of help, through prayer, as Joseph Smith did. So, then, our project is to build a believing character; led to prayer by belief; guided to the temple by belief; drawn into missionary service by belief; led to tithe-paying by belief; inspired into Christian conduct through belief; and made a bundle of Christian habits through belief and its complement—Christian conduct. The indispensable agencies for the putting over of this project are: the Christian home, the Christian Church, the Christian, school. The L. D. S. Youth of the dispensation is entitled to the help of these three agencies in the building of his character. We are GUIDE LESSONS FOR JUNE 223 almost appalled at the importance of early religious character building, the foundation of which is belief in God; and to neglect it is to assume a fearful responsibility. Project Four. The Work for the Dead.. In this project men and women come close to the line of redemption chains and tying knots of love. If all the dead one works for should reject the work done for them, still would the worker be richly paid; because trying to save is as heroic as saving. A dollar sent to the temple is like one spent to keep a boy on a mission; it goes in the service of salvation. If our eyes were adjusted to spiritual waves, what signals for help might we see over there; and if our ears were spiritually attuned, what songs of gladsome gratitude might we hear for what we do for them who cannot help themselves. Questions and Problems 1. Distinguish between a purpose and a project. 2. Name the projects set forth in this lesson. 3. What is our duty concerning the book that was the product of the first great project of the dispensation? 4. Name the workers in the project (a) mortal; (b) immortal. 5. To what point was the organization of the Church completed on the sixth of April, 1830? 6. Name the six charter members of the Church. 7. Give evidence that the organization of the priesthood of the Church was years in being completed. (See Essentials in Church History, by Joseph Fielding Smith, p. 84.) 8. Make as complete a list as you can of the names of beings who have taken part in the projects of this dispensation and state the special mission of as many as you can. (See D. & C. 13, heading; 128:20-21. 110:3, 11-13.) 9. What evidence have we that many angels other than those of record have taken part in the project of this dispensation? (D. & C. 128:21.) 10. Who was Raphael? (See Commentary Doctrine and Covenants, pp. 998, 999.) We 11. What are the beliefs and the conduct that make up Latter-day Saint Christian Character? (Articles of Faith, 1 and 13.) 12. What fearful responsibility is assumed by neglecting to teach and train children? (See D.& C. 68:25, 28.) 13. What great Project of the dispensation points to the necessity of a skilled genealogist in every family? - 14. Discuss: Our salvation depends on our interest in the salvation of the dead. (See D. & C. 128:15.) 15. Discuss "What is Life Without a Project?" 224 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE LESSON II Work and Business (Second Week in June) TEACHERS' TOPIC FOR JUNE—THE HOME Music in the Home "To hear the highest music is to be made immediately conscious of our nobler self. The interest that music arouses is the interest that attaches itself to every human heart; and the love of which it speaks is the love which proclaims the kinship of humanity."—Colvin McAlpin. 1, The cultural value of good music. As a people we should: Concern ourselves with music of real worth. Provide the best musical instruments we can afford. Acquire gradually a good musical library. Cultivate the power to be appreciative and intelligent listeners. E. Create an abundant love for the best music, and a will to participate in it. Ae op Interest in singing and playing, and attendance at concerts, grow naturally from a progressive experience of music gained in childhood and continued into adult years. A. We should stimulate playing and singing in our homes and communities. B. Cultivate a love of hymns and good songs. C. Get the message the words convey. D. Emphasize the beauty of "part" singing. If we improve the quality of our music both vocal and instrumental, it will arouse in us a love for and an interest in music and lay the foundations of a cultivated musical taste. GUIDE LESSONS FOR JUNE 225 LESSON III Literature (Third Week in June) WILLIAM HENRY DRUMMOND When we considered Eugene Field's "Little Boy Blue," we told you that it is a well-nigh perfect poem of its class. As we study the writings of William Henry Drummond, the Canadian, compared to the pen-pictures of Robert Burns in Scotland, for they are pictures of the peasant life of Canada. They may also undying masterpieces, These paintings in verse by William Henry Drummond, are like Millet's paintings—masterpieces, His Canada. He was born in the village of Mohill County, Lartim, Ireland, on the 13th of April, 1854. When he was a lad his father lived in the little village of Tawley on the Bay Donegal. It was in this village that the poet's education began. While yet a lad the family moved to Canada, where the father survived only a few months, leaving but Spare means for the support of his wife and children. As a result, William Henry had to leave school at a very tender age, to help provide for the family. He had learned telegraphy and was employed at Borde a Plouffe, a small village on the prairies near Montreal. It was here that he first came in which occurred in 1907. He was the type of man who wins 226 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE hearts, so that those who knew him wept at his demise with those who loved him best. He had married in 1894, Miss Mae Harvey of Savannah la Mar, Jamaica. It is to his wife that we are indebted for the story of his first appearance as a poet. He had been invited by the Shakespeare Club of Montreal to read a poem. He was very timid, but he won his audience as men of his type are almost sure to do. This was the beginning of a long series of triumphs. It is not always true that dialect adds to the quality of poetry as in the case of the French-Canadian dialect, but certain it is that this dialect has a charm about it that eludes description. For instance, take one of the most papu lag of Mr. Drummond's poems, "Tittle Bateese." LITTLE BATEESE You bad leetle boy, not moche you care How busy you're kipin' your poor gran'pere Tryin' to stop you ev'ry day Chasin' de-hen aroun' de hay— W'y don't you geev' dem a chance to lay? Leetle Bateese! Off on de fiel' you foller de plough, Den w'en you're tire you scare de cow, Sickin' de dog till dey jomp de wall, So de milk ain't good for not'ing at all— An' you're only five an' a half dis fall, Leetle Bateese! Too sleepy for sayin' de prayer tonight? Never min', I s'pose it'll be all right, Say dem tomorrow—ah! Dere he go! Fas' asleep in a minute or so— And he'll stay lak dat till de rooster crow, Leetle Bateese! Den wake us up right away toute suite Lookin' for somet'ing more to eat, Makin' me t'ink of dem long leg crane, Soon as dey swaller, dey start again, I wonder your stomach don't get no pain, Leetle Bateese! But see heem now lyin' dere in bed, Look at de arm onderneat' hees head; If he grow lak dat till he's twenty year I bet he'll be stronger dan Louis Cyr An' beat all de voyageurs leevin' here, Leetle Bateese! GUIDE LESSONS FOR JUNE 227 Jus' feel de muscle along hees back, Won't geev' heem moche bodder for carry pack On de long portage, any size canoe, Dere's not many t'ing dat boy won't do, For he's got double-joint on hees body too, Leetle Bateese! But leetle Bateese! Please don't forget We rader you're stayin' de small boy yet, So chase de chicken an' mak' dem scare, An' do w'at you lak wit' your old gran'pere, For w'en you're beeg feller he won't be dere— Leetle Bateese! Another poem of similar charm to "Little Bateese" is "De Nice Leetle Canadienne.". De Nice LEETLE CANADIENNE You can pass on de worl' wever you lak, Tak' de steamboat for go Angleterre, Tak' car on de State, an' den you come back, An' go all de place, I don't care— Ma frien', dat's a fack, I know you will say, W'en you come on dis contree again, Dere's no girl can touch, w'at we see ev'ry day, De nice leetle Canadienne. Don't matter how poor dat girl she may be, Her dress is so neat an' so clean, Mos' ev'rywan t'ink it was mak' on Paree, An' she wear it, wall! Jus' lak de Queen. Den come for fin' out she is mak' it herself, For she ain't got moche monee for spen', But all de sam' tam, she was never get lef', Dat nice leetle Canadienne. W'en 'un vrai Canayen' is mak' it mariee, You t'ink he go leev on beeg flat An' bodder hese'f all de tam, night an' day, Wit' housemaid, an' cook, an all dat? Not mcche, ma dear frien', he tak' de maison, Cos' only nine dollar or ten, W'ere he leev lak blood rooster, an' save de l'argent, Wit' hees nice leetle Canadienne. 228 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE I marry ma famme w'en I'm jus' twenty year, An' now we got fine familee Dat skip roun' de place lak leetle small deer, No smarter crowd you never see— An' I t'ink as I watch dem all chasin' about, Four boy an' six girl, she mak' ten, Dat's help mebbe kip it, de stock from run out, Of de nice leetle Canadienne. O she's quick, an' she's smart, an' got plaintee heart, If you know correc' way go about, An' if you don't know, she soon tole you so, Den tak' de firs' chance an' get out; But if she love you, I spik it for true, She will mak' it more beautiful den, An' sun on de sky can't shine lak de eye Of dat nice leetle Canadienne. We are including in the lesson the following paragraphs from Logan and French, because we think them especially il-. Luminating: "William Henry Drummond, like the dramatis personae of his poems, the Voyageur and Habitant, was a 'child of nature.' No other kind of man, save this large-bodied, warm-hearted, openminded lover of human kin and of the creatures that live in the wild, who saw and felt the common things of life, as the habitant saw and felt them, could have been a truthful interpreter of the habitant. The merely scholarly poet, the poet of a hothouse refinement, the poet who went to work at the craftmanship of poetry as if he were carving arabesques in verse, could not have the imaginative insight into the mind and heart of the French-Canadian peasant and the sympathy with him that would make it possible for such a poet, with kindly, playful humor, to express the elemental feelings and thoughts—the real humanity— of the habitant. "Drummond was above all things a human poet. His sympathies were inclusive. By intuition he could feel just as the habitant felt about good and evil in the universe. Drummond's heart was warm and large and religious, which meant that he could call nothing that was made in the image of God common or outcast. Though he was well read in the modern poets and was a student of literature, he was not a bookish man. He distinguished between the literature which possessed only aesthetic and artistic beauties and that which was the embodiment of the finer goods of the spirit, the inalienable satisfactions of existence. He loved only the literature that was human and beautiful— simple, pure, and true. GUIDE LESSONS FOR JUNE 229 As, then a 'child of nature', with a large sympathetic heart and a Keltic vision of the 'divinity' which is in all men and also in the wild creatures that are near to Nature, and with a gift of ready expression in rhythmical verse, Drummond was uniquely fitted to be the interpreter of his simple, kindly, reticent, but genuinely human and sincere, fellow-being, the Canadian habitant. Thus singularly fitted to be, as he has been called, 'the Poet of the Habitant. Drummond, in his verse, actually performed a social and a literary service for his country. On the social side, to the English-speaking Canadian, who up to the last decade of the 19th century, considered the habitant as little better than a chattel, Drummond revealed the human, lovable, and admirable virtues of the humble French-speaking compatriot, and also engendered in the English-speaking Canadian a sincere respect and affection for his French-speaking fellow countryman. On the literary side, Drummond created a gallery of genre pictures and spiritual portraits which constitute a unique contribution, not only to Canadian poetic literature, but also to English literature." Other poems of William Henry Drummond are "The Wreck of the 'Julie Plante', A Legend of Lac St. Pierre," 'Johnnie Courteau" and "Madaliene Vercheres." They may be found in a book called Canadian Poets, edited by John W. Garvin. If you chance to have it in your local libraries you can make use of it. Questions and Problems 1, What was Drummond's nationality and what his profession? 2. Do you recall any other persons of his profession that are also writers? 3. Where did he find the people of whom he writes so charmingly? 4. Words from what two languages are mingled to produce the very pleasing effect that we have in Drummond's poetry? 5. These people are people of simple lives and rather narrow opportunities! Does Drummond make us care more or less for them through his presentation of their lives? 6. What mental picture, based on Drummond's description, did you get of the "Leetle Canadienne"? 7. What is your mental picture of Bateese's gran'pere? How does he resemble all good grandfathers that you have ever known? 230 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE LESSON IV Social Service (Fourth Week in June) THE CHILD-STUDY COURSE The Social Traits of Childhood and Youth (Based on Chapter 6, ""The Child: His Nature and His Needs"') In the last lesson we considered the child's moral equipment. There we noted the established principles of a new movement in education—character development. The subject matter of the present lesson—''The Social Traits of Childhood and Youth'—should be considered in the light of the preceding lesson, because the two topics are merely different aspects of the same thing. The author this time, Dr. Frederick E. Bolton, is professor of education at the University of Washington. He is another recognized authority on psychology and child study. A.—GREGARIOUSNESS AND IMITATION (Pages 107-114) Perhaps the most striking thing about human beings is their close dependence upon one another. It is more than the "herd instinct," 1. E., the desire to congregate in groups: it grows out of the fact that we are so completely dependent upon one another, not only as children, but as adults. This fact makes for suggestibility and imitativeness in children. Several facts are specifically responsible for the child's imitativeness, among which might be noted: (a) the long period of immaturity, with (b) its consequent suggestibility, and (c) the imperative need to grow up quickly. And become an adult. Language is the best illustration of how these factors concretely operate. The child acquires his fundamental language behavior by a process similar to contagion. That is, he "catches" the language behavior of those who make up his immediate social world—his parents, brothers and sisters, playmates, etc. It is this fact which determines whether or not he shall speak English or Chinese; use proper words or inappropriate ones; use "baby talk" and so on. So that by the time the average child enters the first grade, his language habits are set and his future language -behavior is practically determined. How important then, that the young child shall be exposed only to good models of English? It is just as easy for a child to imitate correct models of speech as it is to copy poor ones. Questions 1. Could a child of German parentage, for example, learn to GUIDE LESSONS FOR JUNE 231 speak English just as easily as he could learn to speak German, providing he heard nothing but English? Explain. 2. How far is it true that "baby talk" develops only by imitation? 3. If a child's language habits develop largely as the result of imitation, how far is it also true that he gets his moral and religious ideas in the same way? 4. Study the language habits of a number of young children accessible to you, noting (a) their choice of words, (b) the size of their vocabularies (c) their use of slang, "baby talk," etc. Note particularly the extent to which these traits have been developed by imitation. B.—Gangs (Pages 114-121) The wish for recognition is without doubt one of the strongest drives in human nature. Since man's struggle for existence has ceased to be a hand to hand encounter with enemies and destructive forces, and survival has become largely a social matter, recognition has become an indispensable element in human happiness. Since society and the groups which make it up, can give or withhold recognition, it is very clear why we all readily conform to group sentiment and group control. The meaning of this fact for education should be clear. Parents, teachers, and social leaders should be concerned to provide children with many and various opportunities for securing membership in groups with harmless and helpful social purposes, If the child is left to his own devices, it very often happens that he associates with an anti-social group. Questions 1. How do the children known to you satisfy their wish for recognition? Study the gangs, cliques, "crushes," etc., known to your community. 2. Consider Scouting, the M. I. A., and the Primary Association from this point of view. 3. How can society regulate, if it should, the group affiliations of children without supervising such groups and therefore destroying one of the desirable aspects from the standpoint of the child? C.—Sex Education (Pages 121-124) In view of the fact that one entire lesson next year is to be devoted to the Adolescent Period of Sex Education, we recommend SL RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE that class leaders omit the discussion of sex education which appears in the text at this point. E D.—ADOLESCENCE AND CITIZENSHIP (Pages 124-131) It is common knowledge that adolescence is a period of profound character change. At this time, children seem to reach the threshold of adulthood suddenly. The religious zeal which commonly appears at this time is one of the evidences of the extreme hopefulness of youth. Religious leaders will do well to capitalize the energies of the adolescent boy or girl in the interest of his or her character development. In an age of science and utilitarianism this is not easy to do. It is an art. An over-dose of religion at this time may deter the individual from what would otherwise be a wholesome religious life. The altruism of youth is another outstanding trait of adolescence. Youth is essentially idealistic and optimistic. Why not, then, give youth more opportunities than they customarily enjoy to participate in community projects and social-service enterprises? Elaborating the author's splendid suggestions at this point, why could we not engage the energies of our "Mormon" youth in an attack upon local problems of poverty, delinquency, political incompetence, and mental disorder? Some competent observers believe that modern youth is wasting its energies because parents too jealously guard their control in society. Since no generation has solved all of the human ills "the flesh is heir to," and since the present generation in the saddle has all, and probably more, than it can handle, might it not be an advantage all around if we gave youth an opportunity to create and extend our cultural traditions? Questions 1. To what extent do boys and girls in your community become profoundly religious upon reaching adolescence? Do these young men and women continue in this zeal? 2. To what extent do the adolescent boys and girls in your community participate in community activities and civic projects? What opportunities might be offered to them so to participate? 3. What happens (a) religiously, (b) morally, (c) vocationally, to the boys and girls who grow up in your community? 4. Make a list of boys and girls who were adolescent in your community ten' or fifteen years ago. What has happened to members of this group? Where are they located? What are they doing? Are they active Latter-day Saints? Are they useful citizens? Perennial Flowers Plant Now You will enjoy our splendid assortment of more than 100 choice varieties of hardy perennial plants for Spring planting. Just note the following offer. P.-W's selection of one each 12 best everblooming perennials. All for $2.50, postpaid. Everything else in Seeds, Plants, Shrubs and Trees. GET FREE CATALOG PORTER WALTON CO. 42 West First South Salt Lake City, Utah of  CONSERVATIVE INVESTMENTS 28 years experience specializing in high grade investments. Send for our list of recommendations. Edward L. Burton & Co 160 So. Main Wasatch 866 Salt Lake City, Utah  SCOWCROFT'S Blue Pine Preserves Are composed of only pure fruit and sugar cooked together in an open kettle just as you would make preserves in your own home. For something special ask your grocer for SCOWCROFT'S Blue Pine Raspberry Preserve. It has the flavor of fresh berries. Kitchen King Jam Is composed of pure fruit, sugar and pectin in proper proportions to make a delicious jam. Try Kitchen King Raspberry Jam for a delicious spread. When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine Special Sale of VANITY Full Fashioned Hosiery 42 GUAGE, OF FINEST SILK An all over silk chiffon stocking—a real $1.95 value at the special price of $1.59. Box of three pair $4.55. Extra heavy service weight, silk to welt. Mercerized heel and toe. A real value at $1.95, special price of $1.59, a box of three pair $4.55. A semi-chiffon stocking, silk to welt. Mercerized heel and toe. A real value at $1.85, special price $1.49, box of three pair $4.25. All new goods. All the new shades. Mail orders filled. On sale. Glazier & Taylor Hosiery Co. 33 East Broadway VANITY HOSIERY SHOPPE 22 East Broadway 7, What is FLAVOR ZONE Electric Cooking  See the WESTINGHOUSE Automatic Electric Ranges in our store—and let us tell you all about it. Utah Power & Light Co. Efficient Public Service —When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine THE NEW FAST ROTAREX Gyrator Washer SPEEDY AMAZING Smooth, Silent LOW PRICE Performance These Features STURDY in the NEW CONSTRUCTION ROTAREX HANDSOME Will Astonish You APPEARANCE EASY TERMS THE UNEXCELLED ROTAREX WASHING ACTION The "dome-like"' agitator ( in center post), with its washing paddle and clothes-pusher, semi-turns in a half-circle movement 62 times a minute, imparting a rotation of the clothes being washed, and giving proper attention to every garment or other piece. In from five to eight minutes a six-pound batch of laundry may be beautifully and cleanly washed. There is a minimum of wear in the Rotarex washing action and the daintiest things may be intrusted to it without fear of their being damaged. The absence of a center 2 post eliminates the wrapping of clothes and = strings. FOR FREE HOME TRIAL Inter-Mountain Electric Co. 43-69 East 4th South DISTRIBUTORS Phone Was. 354 Wedding Bells Always Ring in June Our advice to those who may be concerned: Right now is the time to decide who will make your Announcements or Invitations. You should entrust this work to a firm that assures you the newest in style and correctness in taste. See us now or send for samples and prices of Printed, New Process Embossed or Engraved Wedding Stationery. Our Line of Social Stationery is Complete and Prices Right The Deseret News Press 29 Richards Street SALT LAKE CITY When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine MRS HANNAH POU 475 N MAIN BRIGHAM CITY UTAH INVESTIGATE BEFORE INVESTING Below 50 Baby’s milk should be kept below 50 to stop growth of harmful bacteria Electrice SelfDe-frosting BEFORE INVESTING, INVESTIGATE ElectrICE can guarantee greater efficiency with far less power consumption. There are only two moving parts. ElectrICE was TESTED for wear and loss in efficiency, after operating continuously for over 26,000 hours, and came through 100%. This is equal to 12 years' actual service in your home. Can any other Refrigerator show such a record? ElectrICE is the product of the greatest manufacturing combination in the world; Belding-Hall and American Radiator Companies. Let us PROVE to you that there are certain features, which are absolutely necessary in maintaining perfect refrigeration, and also that these great advantages are only found in the— SELF DEFROSTING ELECTRICE GUARANTEED TO BE THE MOST EFFICIENT—THE MOST ECONOMICAL ELECTRICE SHOP REFRIGERATION SALES CORPORATION —Distributors— Salt Lake City, Utah When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine IN VESTIGATE BEFORE INVESTING Phone Wasatch 7083: 135 East Second South Merit Bread q Best Quality and Full W eight Utah Products Used Exclusively In Our Bakery LINES EY Sere — Special Round Trip Summer Fares VIA SOUTHERN PACIFIC LINES To LOS ANGELES AND RETURN BOTH WAYS § AQ, 00 To LOS ANGELES via SAN FRANCISCO returning $47, 50 direct or route reversed...Proportionately low fares from all other points in UTAH, IDAHO and MONTANA. STOPOVERS ALLOWED AT ALL POINTS. TICKETS ON SALE DAILY—MAY 15TH TO SEPT. 30TH FINAL RETURN LIMIT OCTOBER 31ST For further information CALL, WRITE or PHONE PRESS BANCROFT, GENERAL AGENT 41 SO. MAIN ST. _ SALT LAKE CITY \ PHONES WAS. 3008—3078 —— — _ Nobody can stop loss. Everybody can avoid it through ad INSURANCE | When you" come here for insurance you get it, coupled with attentive experienced service. This is an agency of the Utah Home Fire Insurance Co. UTAH -~HOME-FIRE INSURANCE CO., | HEBER J. GRANT , General Agents, Salt Lake city, Utah; C— When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine via SAN FRANCISCO An Overall with a Classy Appearance MOUNTAINEER EXPRESS STRIPE OVERALLS GUARANTEED FOR QUALITY, FIT, AND SERVICE A clean, neat appearing garment for the Store Clerk, the Flower Mill Operator, the '. Dairyman, the 5 Garage Man, the Teamster. None Too Large None Too Small, Are You Satisfied With Your Old Furnace? BUY A FURNACE THAT IS GAS AND SMOKE PROOF Install the FAMOUS ROUND OAK FURNACE and save cleaning and doctor bills. The health and comfort of your wife and children is determined by the kind of furnace you install in your home more than anything else. We have Furnaces for all size buildings. Let us figure the heating system for your Chapel or Amusement Hall. Free estimates as to cost of installations. Modern Furniture Company "Trade With Your Friends" J. B. Sharp, Vice President When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine Telephone Wasatch 7187 E. E. Jenkins, President Wasatch 6205 E.E. Davey, Manager LATTER-DAY SAINT GARMENTS At Factory-to-Customer Prices
The following numbers are made in old or new style for either Men or Women
1 Ribbed light weight cotton, with Rayon silk stripe. An excellent ladies' number (new style only)................$1.25 2 Ribbed light weight cotton. Our standard summer weight (old style only)....$1.25 3 Ribbed medium weight cotton bleached. Our all season number...............$1.75 4 Ribbed heavy weight, unbleached cotton. Our double back number...........$2.25 5 Part wool, ribbed, unbleached. Our best selling wool number...............$3.00 6 High grade Rayon Tricot silk. For particular people.....................$3.50 7 Pure worsted wool with Silkine Mercerized cotton. Our best medium winter number.....................$5.75 8 Ribbed heavy weight, unbleached cotton and wool. Our 50% wool number........$5.75 9 Ribbed medium weight, wool and cotton. Our light weight, winter number......$4.75
In ordering be sure and specify whether Old or New Style Garments, three-quarter, or ankle length legs, short or long sleeves are wanted. Also give bust measure and height and weight to insure a perfect fit.
Mail Orders Filled Promptly
THE ORIGINAL UTAH WOOLEN MILLS 28 Richards Street 1 Block South of Temple Gate
Briant Stringham, Manager
L. D. S. GARMENTS DIRECT FROM FACTORY
You are guaranteed unusual wear and satisfaction from Cutler Garments. Return them for full refund if they do not give this required service. Cutler Underwear has maintained the highest standard of quality for over twenty years.
No. 68 Lt. Wt. Ladies' new style.........$ .75 No. 74 Lt. Weight combed........ 1.15 No. 64 Medium weight............ 1.45 No. 76 Lt. Weight lisle........ 1.45 No. 62 Medium heavy............. 1.70 No. 61 Med. Hvy. Unbleached with double back................. 1.70 No. 56 Heavy weight............. 2.15 No. 27 Med. Heavy, ¼ wool...... 3.35 No. 39 Extra heavy, ¼ wool.... 3.85
Please state whether for men or women—new or old style Postage prepaid Pay Cash—Cash Pays
When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine
L. D. S. GARMENTS
Good grade, and well made. When ordering, state Size, New or Old Style, and if for man or lady. Postage prepaid. Sample on request.
142 Flat Weave, Lt. Weight....$.95 264 Rayon Silk.............. 3.50 222 Cotton, Rayon Stripes...... 1.65 258 Double Card. Cot., Med. Wt. 1.95 754 Bleached Cot., Hvy. Wt... 2.25
BARTON & CO. Established in Utah 45 Years 142 WEST SOUTH TEMPLE ST. Salt Lake City, Utah
208 Carded Cotton, Med. Lt....... 1.45 32 Combed Cotton, Light Wt.. 1.50 628 Merc. Lisle, Light Wt......... 2.50 108 Unbleached Cot., Med. Wt... 1.85 217 Fine Lisle, Rayon Stripe.... 2.25 748 Unbleached Cot., Hvy. Wt... 2.00 908 Unbleached Cot., Ex. Hvy. 2.75 1072 Mixed Wool and Cotton.......4.00
TEMPLE AND BURIAL CLOTHES COMPLETE SUITS FOR MEN AND WOMEN Variety of Grades and Prices. Prompt and Careful Attention To Mail—Telephone—Telegraph Orders Open Daily, 9 a. M.—5 p. M. GENERAL BOARD RELIEF SOCIETY Phone Wasatch 3286, 29 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah
When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine
CONTENTS
Vol. XV MAY, 1928 No. 5
Mrs. Evangeline Lindbergh...... Frontispiece My Mother's Ring.... Grace Ingles Frost 234 Pioneers—Giants in the Earth........... Lois Vernon Hales 235 Mother of an Ace....... Linda S. Fletcher 237 Little Mother.......... Josephine Spencer 238 Thoughts of Mother... Velma Brinkerhoff 251 Stake Presidents of Salt Lake County 252 Semi-Centennial Review of the Relief Societies of Salt Lake County......... Lettie T. Cannon 253 When a Man Needs a Mother............ Philena Fletcher Homer 258 Editorial—A Message to Mothers........ 260 Gifts for Social Uplift............ 261 Relief Societies of Salt Lake Stake.. 262 God's Helper........ Howard U. Crandall 263 Five Generations......... 264 Intellectual Responsibility of Mothers.... Heloise Day Merkley 266 Mothers......... Emily Borgeson Brown 272 The Key......... Lilith Shell 273 Notes from the Field.. Amy Brown Lyman 279 Work and Business............ 288
Organ of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints Room 20 Bishop's Bldg. Salt Lake City, Utah $1.00 a Year—Single Copy, 10c Foreign, $1.25 a Year—15c Single Copy Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah
VOL. XV MAY, 1928 NO. 5
My Mother's Ring By Grace Ingles Frost
My Mother's ring— A tiny, nuptial band, That, for so many seasons, Always graced her hand!
I wonder would it tell me, If it had words to say, That it is desolate as I, Since death called her away?
So regally she wore it Through all the years of life— Superb in her fidelity, E'en when no longer wife!
Though glad days fled and sad days came To wreck her happiness, The sanctity it symbolized, She would not render less;
For, when her tresses rivaled The raven's ebon wing, When her hands were white and dimpled, This—my Mother's ring
Was placed upon her finger, By him she loved, her man, And love kept it untarnished, As only true love can.
When the years accruing, Spelled their date of gold, And I, (for lack of fairer words), Must call my Mother old,
It was taken from her finger, For me, her child to keep— A token for remembrance, When she had gone to sleep.
Oh! Since she has awakened Within the Better Land, Can it be she has longed to feel This circlet on her hand?
Or does she wear another, The counterpart of this, Yet of a rarer beauty, There in her home of bliss?
This much, I know—my Mother's ring (Worn on my hand today), Seems to keep her near me, Though she has passed away;
And well I know 'twill keep my feet From treading devious ways; For Mother's ring is shining With a gleam from her life's rays.
Pioneers—Giants in the Earth By Lois Vernon Hales
Very dear to us is the pioneer, no matter where he be or what his nationality. Most of us are children or grandchildren of our own pioneers and the bond with all pioneers is strong within us. Our life is redolent with the fineness of pioneer life. But do we really appreciate it? How can we who know so little of mind-breaking solitude, frightful homesickness, and hardship fully realize pioneer life. Books about America's pioneers will help us if we read them with receptive minds as well as receptive hearts.
Giants in the Earth, by O. E. Rolvaag, is the story of the Norwegian-American immigration. It was written in America and about America, but it comes to us in translation from the Norwegian. Rolvaag's whole aim in writing it is to show the contribution of his people to American life. He sees, and wants us to see, the human cost of empire building as well as the glamour and romance of it. He feels, and wants us to feel the grim reality of pioneering. In its fatalism and psychological turn Giants in the Earth is truly European, but it is an American Saga of the Prairie, for it is wholly concerned with America.
O. E. Rolvaag was born April 22, 1876, in Norway, just a short distance south of where the Arctic Circle cuts the coast. All of his people were fishermen. In their lives hardship, poverty, sorrow, and danger played prominent parts. On them shone the midnight sun for its brief season. Then came long periods of utter darkness hiding the gloomy, barren landscape. From this life Rolvaag broke away. In 1893, a terrible storm had destroyed many of his friends and nearly taken his life. His love for fishing killed, he set sail for America and landed in New York in 1896. In 1899 he entered school in South Dakota. Today he occupies the chair of Norwegian literature in St. Olaf College.
Per Hansa and his wife, Beret, are the outstanding characters in Giants in the Earth. Immediately upon landing in America from Norway, they began their way toward the prairies of the Dakotas. To Per Hansa the future was rosy and full of promise. Anything was better than the gloomy life he had left behind. To Beret the future was doubtful and fraught with sadness. Her people and her humble home where their three children had been born were far across the sea. Here on the prairie with its unbroken rolling expanse one felt the presence of a force hostile to man. Here there was no need of fighting for all were conquered at last. One could not be victorious here. Here people were concerned with the Earth instead of God. Here one had no time to think of God until Death's fingers were upon one and then it was too late. Here the Earth took people instead of the living God. Here men became brutes.
Per Hansa struggled early and late through many hard years. He met plague, heavy storms, tormenting hot summers, with the true grace of the born pioneer. Things prospered until the time came when the future promised returns for his years of hard toil. But Beret—for her the struggle had been too much. Her delicate mind which had groped all these years for an understanding of life had lost its way. And then one day came a minister of God into the little village. He brought to the heart of Beret a message which she recognized. In her narrow way she began to speak of it to Per Hansa. But the Prairie which had watched these would-be conquerors now for many years had decided otherwise. Per Hansa late one winter day set out across the snow-swept prairie in search of the minister. He never returned.
Giants in the Earth is the story of Per Hansa, the born pioneer, and Beret, the failure as a pioneer. Beret could not adapt herself to the new country. In her agony and homesickness she wrecked what might have been the finest of pioneer homes. She sent Per Hansa to his death and made her children unhappy. And the Prairie which had been waiting and watching, drank the blood of Christian men and was satisfied.
Mother of an Ace By Linda S. Fletcher
Pain, the Inquisition Demon, Stretched her on a torturing rack, In a grim, gray place of horrors— Out surged consciousness, then back;
But she fought on, ne'er despairing, Claimed at Gates of Death, a toll— Back to Life returned, triumphant, With the boon she'd won—a soul!
In that mysterious, gray Unknown, Linked was her heart with a Son—her Own!
In the silver mists of heaven, Soul undaunted—courage high, Swooping hence and yon, an Eagle Went to conquer or to die.
Did she pause, afraid to follow To the Kingdom of the Air? No; asserting their high kinship, Soared she up to meet him there.
In the solitude of the pure, high Blue, Visions knit their souls anew!
Little Mother By Josephine Spencer
Little Mother came back to consciousness to find the Boy's tiny head pillowed on her arm, and his ridiculously small fingers clinging at her breast. It was big Man's voice which called her back from deeps into which she had sunk through swirls of mortal anguish.
"Thank God, it's over, Little Mother, and you are safe!" He kissed her—with a great reverence; but Little Mother sensed only the tiny head, and clinging hands.
"It's great, isn't it?" Big Man gloated. "Confess, Little Mother, now it's all over, you're really not sorry it's a boy?"
She puzzled for a moment, quite forgetting that past little picture—of choice. Then her eyes went to his, and they both laughed softly, joyously.
"It's wonderful luck," breathed Big Man, stroking the small, dark head on her arm. "There always will be something to do, planning for him. With a girl it's different—her future is more or less a certainty, if she's a real, true, girl. With a boy there are a thousand chances—careers galore, with rungs leading to the top of the ladder."
"I can't make it seem real," she said, faintly, solemnly. "It's like the time they put my first doll in my arms, and told me it was mine—to keep."
"That's how it looks to me," said Big Man wonderingly—"like a live doll."
Little Mother snuggled the little form closer and said the words over softly, hungrily, "Mine to keep."
College
"College, Boy!" she said. "Why that means going away from home for years."
"But I can come back between whiles, Little Mother," he pleaded. "The summer vacations and the holidays, you know."
"I'm afraid we couldn't manage all that—after your father's reverses. College alone would test his resources—to say nothing of the mortgage and other things."
"I'm going to pay it all back, Little Mother. When I finish I'll work like a Trojan—maybe pick up the mortgage if it's still hanging."
"I'd always thought of your finishing up right here at the home University, Boy."
"The University's all right—in its way," he conceded generously; but a man's nothing nowadays without his big college certificate. Besides, a fellow needs to be thrown on his own re-
LITTLE MOTHER 239
sources to develop his powers. I need the experience to help make me a man. I can't get any sort of training in self-reliance unless I go away from home."
That was the chief trouble. Little Mother knew it all the time she was urging the economies. What he had said, though, was true—about the college prestige. If she interposed her mother's selfishness against his welfare—how would she answer to him in time to come?
She never had thought seriously of facing the ordeal of the Boy's prolonged absence. Now that it suddenly confronted her she felt as if a chord were loosened, somehow, in her own being. The Boy's thought and interests had been heretofore wrapped up in home and home ties, and now the call of the world was itching his ears, challenging the old claims. She of all beings, however, must not stand in the way of the Boy's development—which, of course, was the paramount issue.
Little Mother took the Boy's eager face between her hands. "I'll talk with your father about it, tonight, Boy." she said. "If he can manage it, of course you must go. Nothing must stand between you and your progress."
The Boy gave her a resounding kiss. "I'd pick you from all the mothers in the universe," he declared.
The Girl
Purple morning-glories were thick outside the window, and the sunlight sifting through their trellised leaves and flowers was like shuttled gold. Little Mother looked at the handsome face across the table and drew another long breath. The two months since the Boy's home coming had not quite wiped out her sense of wonder. That strapping fellow with the dark line on his upper lip, ready, but for mug and razor to blossom into a mustache—her son! Bigger now than his father—if it came to actual measurement. No doubt of experience—and time—having done their work. She was glad now that she had not stood in his way, but she would not want to live over again the ordeal of those long years of separation!
She came and stood beside his chair and laid her arm possessingly around his big shoulders. "Going out again tonight, Boy?"
"Yes, Little Mother—to the theater; I've invited Elsie."
Little Mother smiled and pinched the Boy's ear. "Seems to me Elsie's getting big ladles of your company against everybody else's teaspoonfuls."
"It's just our being in the same set, together, Little Mother," he parried. "There are six of us and you see we sort of pair off. If one drops out it leaves a girl over, and breaks up the bunch."
240 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
"It's all right, dearie. I want you to be in things, and have a good time, just so it's clean. But I happened to think today (happened!) that there hasn't been a night or day since you came home without somebody being here—or your being out. I thought it would be fine for just the three of us to spend one evening at home—to make it seem like old times. Suppose we say tomorrow night."
"It's fierce, Little Mother, but there's the Park's party on tomorrow, and the college fraternity banquet next night. Now I think of it—I'm booked for every evening including Sunday. Next week there's the camping party in the mountains—and—"
"It's splendid, Boy—your being in all these nice things," said Little Mother. "I'm glad."
And she and Big Man spent the evening alone, talking over their joy in the Boy's joy, and their satisfaction in his seeming to get started with the right sort of associates.
Big Man had chanced to buy theatre tickets for the theater the same night; and though Little Mother tried to fix her mind on the play—and between acts on the orchestra—she found her attention wandering to the Boy, who sat in the stage-box with the bunch. Little Mother could not help preening a good deal over the Boy's good looks, his evident popularity and assured social standing. But she was silly and selfish enough to indulge a mite of a twinge when she happened to catch the shy glances exchanged between the Boy and Girl while the play was in progress. It was a society play—replete with situations and love scenes, and it was during the tender dialogue that the young couple-in-the-box stole glances at each other. Once, too, their hands met, covertly, on the back of the Girl's chair when her cloak slipped from her shoulders.
This made Little Mother smile absently. It reminded her of incidents that had happened with herself and Big Man in their courting days. She recalled the delicious little thrill in those past innocent diversions and yet now she was fretting because the Boy was having his turn—and actually begrudging the Girl her share in the Boy's pastimes.
That night after the play Little Mother confessed her foolish sin to Big Man, who laughed at it heartily.
"Don't begin to worry over those things, yet, Little Mother!" he warned. "She is only a sweetheart—probably the first. There will be plenty more before he settles down. I know—because I have been through the mill myself."
"You mean there were others before me?" gasped Little Mother. "Perhaps you forget telling me I was the only one."
"You were," said Big Man, stoutly. "The others did not count at all. I never really cared seriously for anybody till I met you!"
LITTLE MOTHER 241
The Main Chance
They were at breakfast, and Big Man looked up from his mail with a gurgle of mingled joy and triumph.
"You've landed it!" he cried, shaking an official document at the Boy. "It has come our way, after all the other fellows' scrapping and wire pulling. Secretly, I didn't think you had the ghost of a chance with all those heelers and lobbyists pulling at the game. I simply put in your application and had a quiet talk with the secretary. It's another big proof to me of the efficiency of clean methods, and that a man don't have to do dirty work to win out in a laudable ambition."
The Boy rose in excitement and went to look over Big Man's shoulder. "It's the real thing, Dad—gilt seals, red tape, everything. And I don't forget I owe it to you. Your influence and public record have landed me the spoil. It's great—all round; not only the salary and prestige, but the experience. Four years in Europe, and in the tip-top diplomatic circles will be a liberal education. A chance like that don't come to many fellows at my age."
The two gloated for a long time. Men-fashion, their talk larded with technical expressions, suppressed egotism and large outlook. It was the Boy who first noticed Little Mother's silence.
"Why, Little Mother, you haven't uttered a word. Aren't you going to join the family jubilation? Thought you'd be the first to fly rockets and fire cannon!"
"The position isn't much in the way of emoluments," said Big Man, his enthusiasm somewhat dampened at sight of her face. "But a diplomatic appointment at his age is big innings. When a young fellow cuts into that sort of running at the start, it means a sure chance at the big games later on, both in diplomacy and politics."
Big Man stood up and he and the Boy looked expectantly at Little Mother.
"He is just home from college," she faltered.
"Yes, but—"
"Four more, added to those four years will make eight."
"It means practically that—yes," said Big Man. "But it's his chance in life. That's what we've really planned and worked for, ever since he was born."
Why, of course, Little Mother sensed it all quite clearly. She herself had built wonderful air-castles all for the Boy's inhabitance and now that the corner stone lay ready—she wanted to back down. They called people pikers who did that! Well, they should see that she would not put a single clog in their elation!
Little Mother tried to manage a smile, but did nothing more than to straighten out the pitiful droop in the corners of her mouth.
242 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
"It's certainly fine—your getting the position," she said, "though I'm not at all surprised. In fact I have always felt that something out-of-the-ordinary would come to you."
The Boy crossed to her and gave her a bearish hug. "You've always been a brick, Little Mother," he spooned. "I knew for sure you wouldn't want me to sluff my main chance."
The Woman
Little Mother read the Boy's letters over feverishly, her breath coming sometimes pantingly, in quick gasps, and again in long, slow sighs. It was all there—the whole perilous story told in the Boy's impetuous, adulatory phrases, and studiously worded defence. Innocent, genuine and frank his own attitude so far—but—the woman!
Little Mother's fingers worked convulsively as she pictured the slim white throat, pink flesh and red hair painted in life-like lines by the Boy's infatuated pen. These and hints of home-coming tourists who had seen and heard—for themselves! Little Mother grew faint at thought of the broken sentences and considerate silences of these home spectators! If it were true, indeed, that the woman could lure Boy from his work at will to drag him at her heels about the European capitals and even to Monte Carlo—why, the very worst must come—dismissal, debauch, disgrace.
Little Mother carried her misery tremulously to Big Man, who listened in silence but with set teeth. It was some time before he spoke. Then he said soberly. "I suppose it had to come, sometime. A young fellow's bound to have his moral hazing in his tilt with the world. No one can help him—it's sort of a tide-rip that sucks from without and within. Neither skill nor strength count much in the struggle. If he gets out whole, it's always more just knack or luck."
"There's something else," said Little Mother, doggedly, and set her white lips.
Night after night she prayed. And day after day, when Big Man was at the office she framed letters to the Boy—cunningly worded, cautiously phrased. Few could have detected anything under their smooth surface, so seemingly guileless was their trend. When the Boy's answers came she took them away to her room and studied them deeply, cautiously probing this phrase, that expression for some glimpse of hope. Presently she fancied she began to see signs. Obscure enough those hints—which Big Man passed over unseen, unscented, even unhoped. New tones—like the first, faint green in sere willows, showing healthy sap to be creeping upward through dried bark—ran in the Boy's letters. Then, at last one came which she read, first breathlessly, then with tears blinding her eyes so that she could hardly see the
LITTLE MOTHER 243
words. When she was quite sure she locked the door softly, and fell on her knees. There Big Man found her when he came home from his political meeting.
She told him sitting on his knee with her arms around his neck, "It's over—the woman, I mean. Boy is clear of her—and with a clean conscience. I felt from the first God would not fail me. I have always trusted so in him—and the Boy."
Big Man
Big Man's face was nearly as white as the pillow on which it had lain for weeks past. Little Mother had seen it change slowly, steadily, till it told the truth the doctor had tried to hint from the very first. Little Mother had put aside the hint angrily, rebelliously, incredulously. Such a thing was impossible! Why—she had leaned on Big Man for years! He was her stay and support in every possible way. No one could expect her to live without him! There are some things which go by themselves; they belong to a separate autocratic kingdom—the realm of too hard to bear. She had put the hint away resolutely and definitely in that place—as being too absurd for consideration.
Today, she rose from the watch which she had kept tirelessly for weeks and went to the bedside. Big Man's lips were moving, and she leaned over him, hungrily, listening. He had not spoken before that day.
Big Man's eyes met hers wistfully, pityingly. "There are things—that must be said, Little Mother," he murmured, "if you will—if you can bear to let me say them—"
He stopped at the touch of wet drops on his face, then, presently went on.
"I've been hoping—praying—this trial might be spared you," he said, very faintly; "but I guess—it has to be."
Her cry—a shrill moan—burst forth piteously and Big Man put his hand forth and held her own tightly for a moment—while he had strength.
"I want you to promise for my sake not—to let it—hurt too hard. One of us had to go first—and the thought of its sorrow falling on you has been a perpetual torment."
Little Mother choked back her tears, and laid a tight hand on her wild heart. "You mustn't let that worry you," she faltered, "I am going to have strength to go through whatever comes. You know how I felt when Boy went away—but I've lived through it—and I suppose I'll just go on the same."
"It's about Boy I want to speak," Big Man murmured, aching at sight of her misery. "It's doubly hard to ask—when you will have so much to bear. I've thought it over and over—and always with the one answer—that it is cruel, inhuman, to ask you to meet it alone. But the Boy's prospects—the knowledge
244 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
that if he leaves the field now, when the slightest chance may lose him his career—I can't—decide."
Big Man's voice failed in a half sob.
Little Mother sat quite silent for a moment. For weeks, since the hint had begun to take root, she had longed to send for the Boy. Thought, alone, of the impending blow, had seemed too much to bear. To meet the thing itself—she sat frozen, trying to feel her way—as out of a deep, impenetrable darkness.
The gnawing sense of Big Man's miserable eyes, roused her. "Of course," she whispered, so faintly he could hardly hear, "Boy must not be called away from his work under any circumstances. It would surely imperil his interests, and I would rather meet whatever comes—alone."
Big Man reached out with feeble hands and drew her wet face close to his own. "Brave Little Mother," he faltered.
The Boy
It was a queer whim of Little Mother's that she could not stand for the Boy's beard. She said it made him seem strange and alien. Boy had smiled at her request.
"Shave? Why, of course, Little Mother, I'm not really set on the beard myself. The Berlin fellows all do it, you see, and we Americans fall in line. I wore it home because I thought you'd have to have a proof that I'm really grown up."
Little Mother clung to the Boy's big hand as if it were to save her from something. All through that dark time with Big Man, and since, she had not been able to picture the Boy save as the tiny thing she had snuggled once in her arms in dainty muslins and laces. This had comforted her in a way—just how, she could not tell.
"Oh, Boy," she said. "It's the changes I want to forget. I want you to put aside everything you can—for awhile—that can separate me from the old associations."
And the Boy, sensing clearly, put aside the beard—together with his own grief and sense of a missing presence and aired nothing in her sight but his old cheery smile and boyish confidences.
And how dear it all seemed. Life began to look to Little Mother as if it might hold something for her after all. Boy, with his loving face opposite her at table, and his stalwart presence an assured stay and protection every day. How she had missed that once familiar sense in those past, dark months! Little tasks whose dullness and routine had spelled distaste in her listless misery, under the Boy's show of interest began to seem important. Nothing was too minute for his appreciative notice. It made everything look different.
LITTLE MOTHER 245
The Career
Little Mother had almost lost her once poignant sense of loneliness when the career loomed in sight. It was only natural, as Big Man had foreseen that a young man haloed with the prestige of a diplomatic appointment, should, in his home town be an early mark for political preference. It took Boy out a great deal, especially when the campaign was in full tilt. Little Mother managed to get through the days fairly well, but the evenings which the Boy spent mostly with the Central Committee. Or at political meetings and state stumpings, seemed harder to bear. His step on the porch during that time became more or less a daily and nightly vigil. She rose almost at daylight to get the newspaper and read reports of his campaign speeches and it all brought back the old pride she had felt at his school and college and diplomatic honors. Thoughts of how Big Man would have rejoiced at this day came up often to choke her, but. She hastily put them away, remembering her solemn promise to Big Man, in that last dark hour.
When the election was over, and the Boy came home escorted by the brass band and the prominent party members, Little Mother experienced a guilty qualm at thought of being able to indulge such happiness. It brought a greater joy though when she realized the campaign work was ended and that she would now see more of the Boy.
They were talking it over at breakfast, and the Boy was beaming with her because of his good fortune.
"It means even more than just the winning out, Little Mother," he said. "My assured position makes possible an event for which I have been dearly longing this past year."
The Wife
Little Mother sat quite still while he told her. It had occurred to her often, of course, that inevitable something; but she had put it away quickly each time with a little shiver. The Boy was all she had now, surely no one had such a claim on him as she—at least for a time. She expected it to happen sometime, but not until her sore sense of that other separation had somewhat healed. The Boy was young, there was plenty of time and she really had had so little of his company for years. Surely—
"Don't think, Little Mother," the Boy was saying, "Don't think this will mean separation from you. She is as unselfish as she is beautiful, and so far from losing anything out of your life, you will gain—yes, more than you think. You will have a daughter, you see, as well as a son. I have pictured it often, Little Mother,. Your having someone to help bear your loneliness. It will take an actual load from my shoulders, to feel there will be another near and dear, one to care for you as I do."
Little Mother brightened at this picture—like the morning-glories on the porch-vine at the touch of the dew.
246 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
"I'm sure it will be all right, Boy, I knew it would come sometime, of course, and—and I am glad—you have chosen so well. She will make you a good wife, I think, and I will do all in my power to help make you both happy."
Little Mother thought it all over when the Boy had gone down town. It would be as he said: No separation—no estrangement—nothing but gain—another life added to theirs, they would bring to each a greater completeness. There might be children, too—her heart gave a joyous throb at that thought. How blind—and narrow and selfish her love had been! It was time something had happened to bring her to her senses.
June came—and the wedding was over with its buoying excitement, and warm-hued hopes. Summer and autumn, and winter again, with endless weeks and long, dark days. Something was wrong—something that lay in the repeated absences,. Growing steadily longer and longer. A few days, at first; then a week, two weeks, and now nearly a month. In the same city, too, with a street car passing both their doors, and not even the trouble of transfer.
She had not noticed at first; little things might have arisen; household duties for the wife, extra work at the office in the evenings, perhaps, and Sunday to keep Boy busy. They were the loneliest, those Sabbaths. She had fought against the feeling as something almost wicked. Deadly lonely, though, the home-coming from Church to the empty house, and lonely mealtimes. Her neighbor had come in often from next door, to be sure; but whoever framed that proverb about the comparative thickness of blood should have sensed the tie of motherhood to know all that it meant.
"What is it, Boy?" She asked the question again, with her hand on his drooping head, as he sat in the arm-chair. "Is it—am I the cause—have I done anything to trouble you?"
"Mother! You—"
"You have been away so long, dear, that is—compared to the first few months, you know—I was afraid some thoughtlessness of mine might have been the cause."
"It has nothing to do with you personally at all. It's just—well, Elsie isn't well, you know, mother, and—and she naturally wants me with her. She doesn't care to go out much, now, you see, and I—well, of course, I can't leave her. You'll make the best of it, won't you Mother, for awhile, if I don't see you? After a while, when Elsie feels better, it will be different. She will get out more."
"Get out more!" She wished her neighbor, had not told her of the weekly sewing club, of the matinee-parties where Elsie had been, according to the neighbor's glowing account, "the life of the crowd." Had it been really her fault, she asked herself; some little inattention, or thoughtlessness towards the girl-bride?
LITTLE MOTHER 247
She had so wished to be mindful; she had an undissembled affection, which she felt sure Elsie must have sensed. She was awake far into the night, wondering, and rose to her lonely breakfast with something like that dead weight at her heart she had known after Big Man died. It lay there many a day, after that, though Boy called her up twice a day, by wire, and Elsie came down with Boy one Sunday afternoon, and shared her light lunch with her. Even when Boy began to make weekly calls, running down evenings for a half hour's chat as he had not done for months—the weight did not lessen, but indeed grew—for the troubled look in Boy's face had deepened—was always there, and a constraint, too, in his manner that made him seem somewhat alien, like the German beard. She watched him anxiously, though without sign, fearful lest she might touch, unwittingly, some sore sense. The trouble, if trouble it were, made the first one he had not discussed with her, as a comrade, in bygone times. It was such a little thing, this one and only reserve; she was childish, yes, even selfish, to make it an anxiety. She would put the thought of it out of her mind, and try to help him back to the old boyish, carefreeness.
The coming of the grandson helped. In the joy and excitement of the wonderful advent, old but ever new, thrilled with its inexplicable marvel, all constraint vanished. There was a special dinner at Little Mother's home in honor of the first visit of the tiny potentate, then one at Boy's with the old good will and frankly kind and familiar intercourse renewed.
Six months passed with a new sense of happiness in Little Mother's life. The gain Boy had pictured when he told of his future marriage, seemed really to be coming true, with still another link added to her claim on the world. The baby's tiny face learned to brighten at Little Mother's sight, and the dimpled arms to go out to her in flattering welcome when she was present, and the lines of age and sorrow in Little Mother's face softened under the renewed influence of cheer.
Boy did not find time to make the weekly visits now, since the new claim on his home life; but there was no constraint, no spirit of brooding estrangement to worry her. With her plain garden in front, and the little plot at the back of the house which Boy had proudly planted in spring shoots, and her neighbor coming in now and then to while away the hours at home, and her own duties, the time passed with surprising swiftness and pleasure.
She blamed herself, when she began to notice things again. "My own idle, selfish imagination!" she told herself, indignantly. "I am beginning to demand that my life shall have no cloud, that's all. As if I, or Boy, or anyone else can expect perfect content and peace to last. Time to get rid of this morbid imagination, if I'm not to make myself, and Boy and everyone else miserable."
248 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
She held to her struggle resolutely, even when Boy began to come down every day, with his mouth set in hard, determined, but unhappy lines, and his manner distraught with the old constraint.
Little Mother watched Boy drop from the car platform one day with an unusual tightening of heart. His face, pale and strained, his manner almost hopeless—what could it all mean? She put the question involuntarily, as he entered the door and flung himself on the little settee.
He was still for a moment, then suddenly walked to the table. "It's that, mother," he said, laying something on the table.
She looked at the small gold band, dazedly. "I don't understand you, Boy," she said. "That ring—"
"It's Elsie's, mother—yes, the wedding ring. You know what it means when a wife gives that back, don't you?"
He sat down on the sofa again, and buried his face in his hands.
"Little Mother," he said, desperately, with a sob in his voice. "I can't say anything in self-justification without seeming cowardly—without making her bear the blame. But I have tried to make things go right in our lives. But it didn't seem just to me, and never will, to sacrifice you absolutely to our own selfish ease and happiness. As if I could be happy with you deliberately put out of my life. Yes, that's it substantially. It's not. Just a personal claim of wife against mother—I could see, and have yielded to that natural claim as far as it did not encroach on actual justice to me and you! But it is a claim of family against family, an imperative claim for our joint loyalty and devotion to her kindred, with an almost total disregard of my own rights. She cannot sense that I have my personal ties and home associations as dear as hers. She cannot sense that my claim is, in its way, more imperative because of your loneliness—a condition, which she has had no chance to sense.
"That is the foundation of it all, Little Mother—oh, of course there have been other things—things we have said to each other in trying to argue it out, each on our own side. She calls my stand stubbornness, you see, but I have made concessions that have kept me sleepless thinking of you and what you might think of my desertion. I couldn't explain—you can see that, can't you, Little Mother? I've held it—because I was afraid, almost to voice such a thing as a misunderstanding between me and my wife. It has hurt to the core, Mother! You can't guess how much! I love her—I couldn't love her more than I do now; but it's misery I can't stand, the daily jangling, and insistence upon personal rights, whose absolute counterpart she denies me."
The noonday sun streaming through the muslin curtain blinded Little Mother's eyes. Something dark at least came
LITTLE MOTHER 249
between her and Boy's wretched face. She put up both hands and shut it all out for a moment, then quickly—sensing that Boy's suffering would only grow with her own, put them down. "This is serious, Boy," she said, presently. "We must think well and dispassionately; so as not to make mistakes. This is the biggest problem of your life—you must step as carefully as if you were on thin glass, whose breaking will plunge you to destruction." Boy's own face was hidden and his short dry sobs were the first she had heard since he was a child. She drew her chair to the sofa. '"Let's talk it over, Boy," she said. "There must be some way out of this—this mistake. It's only that, you must remember; nothing must come between you, and your wife and child. A mother must not do it, above all things. You see that, don't you, dear? It would be like cutting you out of your birthright, or shutting a door to keep you from paradise." Boy sat up and threw out his arms. "But the alternative, there's only one, you know, now, after all that has passed between us." "And it isn't so difficult, Boy, if you look at it in the right way." "You mean—for me—to give you up?" "Figuratively, yes—for a time, at least. It is all new to her, you know—this relationship. With its new ideas, and ties. In time, I am sure, things will look differently. We must consider her side, even a little more than ours." Boy uttered a little despairing groan. "I have tried to do that, Mother." "Yes, but you have had the struggle alone. It is a hard one, even for an experienced person, and you two young people have been trying to straighten it all out yourselves. If you had only told me at first, I might have helped you both. I can do it now, though, thank heaven." Boy groaned again. "It's too late, now; it's gone too far. Besides, as I told you—a settlement can only come about on conditions I cannot as a man, a son, or a Christian, concede." Little Mother drew a long breath. The sense of that concession lay like a weight at her heart; but it must not balance on the wrong side. "You are taking it all too seriously, dear, time brings everything out right if we meet things as they come in the right way. Now let me handle this for awhile. I've just had a thought—an inspiration, we will call it—a way out. It's that little farm of ours out in the country. The people on it haven't been doing right by us—I have felt it for some time. Neighbors out there say the man is really shiftless, lets things go at haphazard. I've 250 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE felt for a long time one of us ought to be out there to look after things. It isn't much, of course, all told; but it's ours, and some time may mean a great deal to you—and your children. The thing for me to do right now is to stay there and watch things." "Little Mother! Heaven knows you are lonely enough now. Out there—" "There will be someone with me, of course. I shall keep our tenants on, there, to do the work. I'll just be the boss, you see—with a little corner of my own to keep as a sort of throne room. I won't have time to be lonesome, you know, with all the farm things on my mind." Boy came and knelt down by her low chair. Little Mother, I see what you mean—and I know what it will cost. But I believe it will save us—me and Elsie and our child—a sorrow worse than death. God bless you, Little Mother, and—and help to bring _it out all right in the end." She watched him swing on the car, his step lighter by far than when he had come. The hopeless look on his face, too, had lifted, though his mouth drooped and the eyes that gave her a parting glance were dim. When he was quite out of sight, Little Mother fell on her knees. The End Little Mother thought she had sounded the utmost deeps of Loneliness after the passing of Big Man, but then she had the Boy's homecoming to live for—and now there was nothing. The farm lay miles from the railroad and the nearest neighbor, and Little Mother's sole companions were the hired help, who were in a state of perpetual grouch because the presence of Little Mother interfered with their own designs. Little Mother sensed this, half-pitifully. She was in everybody's way. Even Boy would have a certain sense of relief in her absence. There were his wife and child and career— enough to keep any man's mind occupied. They would help him, if not to forget, at least not to miss her. Time and custom wipe out many things. New children would come—they would hear of her sometimes, of course: she could trust Boy's loyalty for that—but their childish love. Their sense of kinship would never unfold. Little Mother pictured herself growing, as years went on. Less and less to all of them—and finally so little, in a real sense. That when the word came, it would mean but a momentary wrench to be quickly assuaged. She might even die alone in that far off place. Little Mother's sorrowful brooding was interrupted by a sudden knock at the door. She went hastily and signed for the telegram mechanically but with trembling hands. She did not open or read the message, for her heart told her beforehand what LITTLE MOTHER 251 - was. The last blow had fallen that could wring little Mother's heart. There was no God after all. A Being supreme in knowledge and power and mercy would have spared her this anguish. He would have taken her life— so wretched and useless, and saved that other truthful one for its well started pilgrimage. Boy dead! It was a thing absolutely monstrous—unholy! For the first time in her life Little Mother's lips began to frame something almost blasphemous— *"Why, Little Mother! You must be having bad dreams. If you thrash about with your arms like that you'll hurt the Babe." It was Big Man's voice, a little curious and anxious. "She saw too much company yesterday," said the nurse from the corner, where she was putting a fresh cluster of roses into a vase. The Excitement has made her feverish, and I shall put a stop to visitors' calls for at least a week." "That dictum does not include her best beau, I hope," said Big Man, including Little Mother and the Boy in a general hug." "Let me take him," said Little Mother quite wildly, clasping the Boy hungrily to hear heart." He is mine—I tell you—I have gone down to the gate of death to gain him. He is mine—to keep." Thoughts of Mother By a Missionary, Velma Brinkerhoff Somehow the world's not quite the same With you so far away; T sometimes dream of you at night; I think of you each day. You are the dearest pal I've had— Can I forget your face? Though many friends are round me here, Which one can take your place? When evening comes, when lights are low My memory flies to you, To all your sweet and loving ways— The things you used to do. How oft you smoothed each childish grief And helped me when I fell; And the secrets deep I've told to you— Heart thoughts you'll never tell. When my field work here has ended And from duty's call I'm free, I shall go straight home to greet the pal, Who is all the world to me! STAKE PRESIDENTS OF SALT LAKE COUNTY 1. Hazel Greenwood, Liberty; 2. Luacine S. Clark, Ensign; 3. Lettie T. Cannon, Pioneer; 4. Mary J. B. Pixton, West Jordan; 5. Mary Isabelle Horne, 1st Stake President; 6. Elizabeth C. Williams, Salt Lake; 7. Vera P. Walquist, Cottonwood; 8. Emmaretta G. Brown, Granite; 9. Elfleda L. Jensen, East Jordan; 10. Wanitage B. Daynes, Grant; 11. Emma S. Jacobs, Semi-Centennial Review of the Relief Societies of Salt Lake County By Lettte T. Cannon One of the most inspiring and magnificent performances ever presented to the people of Salt Lake was the Semi-Centennial Review "Onward" given in the Tabernacle March 16, 1928. The combined Relief Societies of Salt Lake county and about six hundred Relief Society women took part. "Onward," an epic of progress,—a symbolic picturization in song and story—commemorates the organization of the first Salt Lake Stake Relief Society, its development and growth into the present ten stakes: Salt Lake, Granite, Ensign, Liberty, Pioneer, Cottonwood, Grant, Oquirrh, East Jordan and West Jordan. It is from the pen of Claire Stewart Boyer, a writer of promise, whose poems will be studied in the Literary department this year. "Onward" is divided into three parts: I, Our Heritage; II, Our Growth; III, Our Presidents. Part I, is a picturization of our past general presidents who were characterized by the following women: Emma Smith by Etta F. Toronto; Eliza R. Snow by Nettie M. McAllister; Zina D. H. Young by Zina Y. Card; Bathsheba Smith by Donnetta S. Kessler; Emmeline B. Wells by Ameda S. Young. A fitting tribute was paid to each of these presidents who worked so earnestly and unselfishly for the great Relief Society cause, and who left their work and example as our heritage. Part II, symbolizes the growth of the; Relief Society in Salt Lake county form the first stake organization in 1877 with Mary Isabelle Horne as president, up to the present ten stakes. The Mother Stake Nina O. Edwards represented the Mother Stake, Salt Lake, "For it was given to thee to be a Mother Stake, A Relief Society Mother Stake to the daughters of Zion, In 1877 thou stepp'st forth, thine arms extended; Thou gaz'st at the mountains in the East, and breathed in courage, 254 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Thou gaz'st at the lake in the West, and thy heart was wrapped in peace; Then, prayerfully, thou sett'st thyself to the tasks before thee, As became a Woman of Purpose. With thy growth in the valley of the mountains, Came a new radiance to thy countenance, Came a new joy to thy soul, Thou felt'st the throbbings of the hearts of the future, And with the guidance of thine instinct, Thou keep'st thy body strong and clean and refreshed, Thy mind advancing, and thy spirit Tuned to the great eternal rhythm." And in Fulfillment came the other stakes represented by Irene Thoresen as Grant; Inez R. Preece, Pioneer; Emily Podmore, Cottonwood; Ida Whipple, Oquirrh; Gertrude Pierson, East Jordan; Ethel J. McMullen, West Jordan; Elnora Ward, Liberty; Ruby E. Campbell, Ensign; and Esther C. Sandberg, Granite. 'And each in turn, upon the foundation thou hadst given them, Formed a glorious stake, Inspiring the daughters of Zion To greater works. And to each stake has come a marvelous strength, For faith and love have entered her organization, And upheld her in all things, And therefore, she was blessed." The Daughter Stakes In the Development Mable Fisher and Lillian Schwendiman represent Grant Stake; Margaret C. Clayton and Ruth E. Cutler, Pioneer; Beatrice Diamond and Victoria Anderson, Oquirrh; Elizabeth B. Poulton and Rachel M. Seare, Salt Lake; Emma Flowers and Annie Bowden, Cottonwood; Mary Creer and Lola Copenhaver, Liberty; Alma R. LaFont and Carol B. Richards, Granite; Diana Kolsolake and Cora G. Snow, Ensign; Fern Hendrickson and Mina Mickelson, East Jordan; Alice J. Cooper and Edith Dahl, West Jordan. "And the nine daughter stakes have seen the vision Their mother saw before them; That God had made all things, and made them well, ~ That God loved all things, and had placed that love In the hearts of his children; That God had a purpose noble and divine in this, His vineyard, And that to them He had given a knowledge of that purpose And a share of His work He had put into their hands for completion— ) REVIEW OF THE RELIEF SOCIETIES ZS That Christ's Kingdom might be built upon the earth." These women, gowned in gold costumes with white wigs, made a most impressive sight. Part III, presented our sixth and present General President, Clarissa S. Williams, dressed in white. "Most gracious leader of these latter days, Thine eyes have seen the glory of His plan, Thy heart has leapt with joy in its response Since in His vineyard, this thy trust began; Thou hast been blest with vision for our needs, Thou hast been crowned with wisdom in thy ways, With purpose thou hast filled our thousand hearts, With happiness hast filled our thousand days." Sister Williams was joined by the ten stake presidents, Emmaretta G. Brown, Granite; Elizabeth C. Williams, Salt Lake; Luacine S. Clark, Ensign; Lettie T. Cannon, Pioneer; Hazel Greenwood, Liberty; Winifred B. Daynes, Grant; Emma S. Jacobs, Oquirrh; Elfleda L. Jensen, East Jordan; Mary J. B. Pixton, West Jordan; and Vera P. Walquist, Cottonwood, all dressed in white with jeweled, gold-colored girdles. "Under the care of ten wise presidents, The stakes that nestle in the valleys old Have reached a fair and monumental strength, A joy to contemplate and to behold." A Hundred Wards Then from the back of the Tabernacle, down either aisle came the present ward presidents gowned in white. "A hundred wards are mothered and matured Within the stakes, by women diligent, Who give their time and strength and faith and love To serve them worthily as Presidents." And then came the "flagstones of the past," the past stake and ward presidents, the former gowned in lavender, the latter in white. "For faithful leaders ever light the way For truth's expansion, and the world will bless These women who have made the Gospel sure, These loyal devotees of righteousness." It was a stirring sight to see these women, many of them three-score years and ten, who have labored so faithfully and earnestly, and who have given of their time, their love and 256 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE their strength to the Relief Society cause. Many eyes were filled with tears, and all were touched by the wonderful spectacle before them. And as Mrs. Stewart read the Finale all hearts joined with her in saying, The Work Goes On "Thus in these latter days The work goes on. Thousands of minds directed every day, Thousands of hearts are purified anew, Thousands of minds are moulded by the plan The past in all its glory could not dream Of Zion fairer than she is today; Of Zion's women singing on a hill; Of Zion's women working with a will To bring Salvation to a hungry world. Then upward, upward and onward Their aim will ever be, With praises to the God of Earth And of Eternity." The poem was beautifully read by Mrs. Grace Nixon Stewart, whose voice carried to the farthermost part of the Tabernacle, inspiring all with the grandeur and beauty of Relief Society work as depicted. Much credit is due Mrs. Irma Felt Bitner for her splendid work in directing the Review; she was ably assisted by Annie C. Kimball, Inez Witbeck and Erma Roland. Mrs. Ida Horne White, known to Relief Society workers as the author of the music to "The Mothers' Plea," composed the music for the "Pledge," and with Mrs. Agnes M. Bolto, she had charge of the chorus of one hundred women whose inspiring singing of Mendelssohn's "Lift Thine Eyes" and Mrs. White's "With Heavenly Inspiration" and the "Pledge" song, added greatly to the enjoyment of the performance. Tracy Y. Cannon, Tabernacle organist, provided artistic accompaniments on the great organ. Mrs. Anna G. Ipson, accompanist for rehearsals, was also pianist for the Review. An instrumental trio composed of Aurelia Shimer, Ireta Roylance, and Mary Mortimer, did beautiful work in accompanying the Reader in Part I and in rendering a selection between Parts I and II. Mrs. Lillian G. Shurtliff had charge of the costumes. The invocation and the benediction were offered by Louise Y. Robison and Jennie B. Knight of the presidency of the General Board of the Relief Society. The Review Committee consisted of the Presidents and Board members of the ten stakes, with Emmaretta G. Brown, General Chairman.
Mother By Amy Kemp
Though each year makes you sweeter and makes me love you more, Yet each day takes you closer to that far-off blessed shore; Still I dare not think of parting—may distant be that day! While I turn time's booklet backwards and think of yesterday.
There I see our kitchen table with cover spread for eight, There I see my father smiling as he nears our garden gate, Then I see all of us children—for then we numbered six, And I hear our laughing voices as we played at kiddies' tricks.
Then I see our old time wash-stand, where you combed and curled our hair; And I hear that sweet, soft lullaby you sang to baby fair; In turn we knelt before you, and you taught us how to pray, Your simple, humble, heart-felt words we all were taught to say.
And then we'd run and jump and bounce upon our little bed, And we knew that God would bless us, for our evening-prayer we'd said. Yes, those were all quite happy days, with not a thought of care, So as I look on yesterday, those hours seem sweet and rare.
But one by one the children leave and make themselves a home, And as time's wheels roll on and on, with Dad you're left alone, And so I pray that God will grant you old-felt love anew, That you may both be happy in everything you do.
So when life's journey's over and you go beyond the veil, You may know God's greatest glory, since here you did not fail, And may we children live to be an answer to your prayer, That we may thus repay you for your loving tender care.
When a Man Needs a Mother A Record from the Spokane County Jail By Philena Fletcher Homer, Ph. D.
Years ago Dr. Pentecost, the celebrated revivalist, began a series of religious services in Saltcoats, Scotland. During these meetings he and his assistant, a Miss Ticer, organized a children's class, like the Primary of the L. D. S. Church, except that it was undenominational. When the time came for Dr. Pentecost and Miss Ticer to move on to other fields, they looked around for some one to carry on the work. As Mrs. Mary Lambie was one of the most enthusiastic of their co-workers, they engaged her to keep up the organization. At first she was undecided. "I knew if I began that I should have to hold on," she said; but at last she consented.
For seventeen years this sweet little Scotch woman gathered the children of the community together every Thursday afternoon for spiritual training. Children of all denominations and all creeds came there, and under her inspiring leadership learned the lesson of God's love.
In May, 1911, she followed her only daughter to America and came to live in Spokane, Washington. Mrs. Lambie had been there only a short time when some friends asked her to visit the Spokane jail with them. What she saw there that Sunday afternoon moved and touched her; she felt that here was her life work—the work for which she had been especially called. To use her own words: "So grieved was I to see so many prisoners behind the bars, young men needing their mothers, that I pledged myself to God that if he would give me my health, I would visit them for him. The tears ran down my cheeks and I could not speak a word."
So began her sixteen-year-long career as "The Mother of the Spokane County Jail." She is eighty now, a lovely, sweet-faced, little Scotch woman; yet every Sunday she takes the long ride from her home to the jail, a distance of nearly two miles, to carry her message of love and cheer to her boys, as she calls them. Sunday is her day; from twelve until two she has the run of the jail, standing for two hours in the bleak corridors that she may talk to each man individually. "I can't speak to them sitting down," she said, "I must come close to the door and speak to them from my very heart."
WHEN A MAN NEEDS A MOTHER 259
She not only gives them spiritual comfort, but helps them in many ways. Sometimes it is a sum of money sent by anxious loved one that she lays away for the lonely boys until they are free; sometimes she writes a letter; sometimes helps the homeless man or boy to find shelter and food, until he gets on his feet; sometimes finds a Bible in their own language for the foreign-born. But whatever her service, it is given with such a spirit of love that it is never forgotten.
Mother Lambie is one of the few people who are allowed the run of the jail. As Jim McCowan, veteran jailer, says: "She is the only person who is universally welcome at the jail." There is no cell to which she is not allowed to go, no criminal so desperate that she is not allowed to speak to him and give her message of love and sympathy. She is not like many who visit such institutions; she knows what they need and she gives it to them. In Mother Lambie there is nothing of the "I am holier than thou." Her only thought is to comfort, not to blame, criticize, or sermonize.
One day last spring she was unable to go to the jail. The following Sunday, as soon as she came in, a shout ran from cell to cell. "Mother's here, mother's here;" and then some mischievous boy shouted "Mother's here, but she's not coming up." Immediately from the second floor came a great uproar; but Mrs. Lambie called out, "I'm here and I'm coming up."
From the far corners of the earth messages come to her; sent by those she has helped. A short time ago a man came up to her and said, "You don't remember me, but I do you. You visited me in jail fifteen years ago."
Two things Mrs. Lambie counts among her greatest treasures. One is a poem written by a friend to celebrate her eightieth birthday, and published in the Saltcoats, Scotland, paper. The other is a letter from one of her boys, written about two years after he left jail. In it he says: "You brought so many happy hours into my life when I was so miserable, but these are better days. I was married last May. My girl waited almost two years for me to get readjusted. It is fine to have a home of your own, isn't it? Am going to the University in January. Have only two more years left."
Thousands of the pitiful inmates of the jail have received her loving ministrations; boys, frightened and heartsick, or in for some mad prank, drunks, confidence men, old offenders, hardened criminals, even murderers, but they all have one name for her—Mother Lambie, and as the jailer says: "A man needs a mother when he's down and out."
THE RELIEF SOCIETY OF THE CHURCH OF JESUS CHRIST OF LATTER-DAY SAINTS
Motto—Charity Never Faileth
THE GENERAL BOARD
MRS. CLARISSA SMITH WILLIAMS - - - - - - President MRS. JENNIE BRIMHALL KNIGHT - - - - - - First Counselor MRS. LOUISE YATES ROBISON - - - - - - Second Counselor MRS. AMY BROWN LYMAN - - - - - General Secretary and Treasurer
Mrs. Emma A. Empey Mrs. Julia A. Child Mrs. Rosannah C. Irvine Mrs. Jeanette A. Hyde Mrs. Cora L. Bennion Miss Alice Louise Reynolds Miss Sarah M. McLelland Mrs. Julia A. F. Lund Mrs. Nettie D. Bradford Mrs. Annie Wells Cannon Mrs. Amy Whipple Evans Mrs. Elise B. Alder Mrs. Lalene H. Hart Mrs. Ethel Reynolds Smith Mrs. Inez K. Allen Mrs. Lotta Paul Baxter Mrs. Barbara Howell Richards Mrs. Ida P. Beal Mrs. Lizzie Thomas Edward, Music Director Miss Edna Coray, Organist
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
Editor - - - - CLARISSA SMITH WILLIAMS Associate Editor - - - - ALICE LOUISE REYNOLDS Assistant Manager - - - - Amy Brown Lyman
Room 28, Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah Magazine entered as second-class matter at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah
Vol. XV MAY, 1928 No. 5
EDITORIAL
A Message to Mothers
One of the wholesome books of today, a book now in its fifth edition, is Mothers and Children, by Dorothy Canfield Fisher. We are pleased to recognize it in the Mothers' Day issue. We shall, perhaps, comment later on vital points in each chapter. Mrs. Fisher possesses a quality of mind that gives her the power to select important matters and to eliminate those not vital. In this crowded life children have a right to parents who can push aside the multiplicity of unimportant details and give them in their lives those things that are indispensable.
So she tells us in the beginning that it is pretty generally known that a babe, even "though the heavens fall," must have clean milk—absolutely clean milk—sterilized nursing bottles, and warm feet—conditions which can be supplied as well in a gypsy encampment as in the palace of a king."
With older children "the real essentials, which any of us can have by taking thought, are peace and harmony among the adults of the family; an atmosphere of purposeful, cheerful industry and clear-sightedness towards the children; and for them a life of intellectual freedom and physical activity. Now, these conditions can be secured in a little five-room house, in any moderate-sized American town or village, or in the country, as easily as in a millionaire's mansion. Self-indulgence and laziness certainly can be
EDITORIAL 261
discouraged more easily by the example of adults, who expect, as a matter of course, to do a reasonable amount of real work themselves, than by any amount of verbal exhortation or manual training in an atmosphere where the adults expect, as a matter of course, to do nothing but what pleases them."
Mrs. Fisher bears in mind the fact that mothers are not naturally selfish. They are willing to make great sacrifices for their children and do it gladly; consequently they "are not looking for the easy way to bring up their children, but are searching for the best way with whole-hearted fervor. They are not prevented by selfishness from giving their children what is best for them, but only by dire confusion of mind, like the tired young mother who sat on my porch the other day, making tucks by hand in her little girl's dress until she was so worn out with eye-strain and fatigue that she slapped the child for unintentionally overturning a vase of flowers! In these enlightened days, of course, few of us slap our children to relieve our own nervous tension, but do we not allow ourselves to become so tired and harried by life that we are almost constantly out of sympathy with, for instance, the natural instinct of children for incessant activity? Are we not always telling our children to 'keep still' or 'do be quiet' or not to 'litter up the house so' or 'don't do that' simply because their blessedly healthful busyness with its consequent noise is the last straw for our overstrained nerves? For all this there is no possible excuse. When we undertake the care of children we bind ourselves (no matter what other activities may suffer) not to allow our nerves to become overstrained. We must not be irritable or unjust or unintelligent—not even once."
Gifts for Social Uplift
Nothing new under the sun; but the number of large gifts contributed for welfare work by wealthy persons living in the United States begins to look as though this old axiom might be challenged. The year 1927 has been designated the greatest gift year in history. Some of the gifts have been made by women and some have been made for the special benefit of women and children. All gifts for charity and for the combating of disease will be particularly helpful to women and children, for social workers are constantly discovering, in their case-work, families of women and children who are ill, and who are not supplied with what is necessary for normal living.
One of the outstanding gifts by a woman is that of "Mrs. Mary E. Emery, wife of the inventor and manufacturer of the emery wheel, who left $20,000,000, in the form of a foundation, for charitable and educational purposes. The will of Henry Buhl,
262 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
Pittsburgh capitalist, created a fund of $15,000,000 for charity, this being the largest single fund set aside during the year. Aside from the Buhl foundation, the largest single gift to charity is from Mrs. C. Sellew of New York, who gave $2,000,000. John Whalen of Brooklyn left $1,400,000 to the Roman Catholic Church, Diocese of New York, for use in its charitable work; and S. Friedman of New York left for Hebrew charity $1,000,000."
Indirectly all money devoted to the elimination of disease is likewise for charity, because poor health is one of the outstanding causes of poverty. Consequently, such gifts as that of "R. F. Cutting of New York who gave $250,000 for cancer research, the gift of J. Pierpont Morgan of $200,000 for research to discover the cause of sleeping sickness, and $2,000,000 by the Fraternal Order of Elks for fighting tuberculosis and aiding crippled children"—all these will help to eliminate poverty.
Women in colleges have had to depend largely on the munificence of liberal hearted persons to supply them with proper housing conditions on college campuses. A gift looking towards just this thing is that of $1,650,000 for residential halls at Cornell University. Cornell has one thousand women in attendance and she aims to place them on her beautiful campus under conditions that should make for the best development of modern women. This gift, from one who has asked that his or her name be withheld, certainly marks progress in the building of dormitories on the American college campus.
Semi-Centennial Celebration of the Organization of the Relief Society of Salt Lake Stake
Color, music, poetry, and the charm of a well trained voice in the reading of the author's lines, all blended to make worthy the semi-centennial celebration of the Relief Societies now comprising Salt Lake county. An age that demands complexity in its amusement as well as its everyday life, requires all the senses to be engaged at once; the eye by picture, the ear by music of the voice, and the mind by noble thoughts set nobly to words and music. All of these demands were met by the entertainment; part pageant, part reading, and part musical, presented in the Salt Lake Tabernacle on Friday evening, March 16, 1928 by the ten stakes of Salt Lake county.
Particularly effective were the symbolic characters. The orange and gold dresses and white wigs, lent greatly to the dignity of the figures. The accumulated effect at the close when stake presidents and past stake presidents and all past and present presidents of wards formed the ensemble, with
EDITORIAL 263
President Clarissa Smith Williams as the central figure, made a most impressive picture.
We wish to speak with special favor of the lines of Mrs Claire Stewart Boyer and the equally excellent reading by Mrs. Grace Nixon Stewart, whose personal charm and sweetness of voice lent much to the occasion. The musical compositions of Mrs. Ida Horne White are to be noted, also the choir under the able leadership of Mrs. Agnes M. Bolto, the accompaniments by Tracy Y. Cannon, Mrs. Anna G. Ipson, and the instrumental trio.
Unity was obtained through the presentation of the six general presidents, with lines dedicated to and commemorative of the work of each. The general and all special committees must be highly gratified with an achievement of such outstanding merit as the Review proved to be.
We value the production as much for what it predicts for the future as for what it really was. In 1942 the Relief Society will be one hundred years old. If the various stakes keep on with meritorious pageants such as that produced by the organization of Salt Lake county this time and at other times in other stakes, a piece of art worthy of a people of art traditions will be the result. In just this way the Roman Catholics have built up their background of art, which is a challenge to every other church but which must eventually be surpassed by the Latter-day Saints whose faith and organization are the direct results of revelation.
God's Helper By Howard U. Crandall
Who knows the things we love the best? Who with our troubles helps us? When failure stares us in the face, Who clears our grey skies for us?
Who is it that we always seek, In times of joy or sadness? Who knows just what to say or do, To fill our hearts with gladness?
Who always gives a helping hand, To us, and yet is humble? Who helps us up and helps us on, When off life's path we stumble?
Who knows, when we have reached success, More joy than any other? God gave us one who does all these, And that one is—OUR MOTHER.
Great-Great Grandmother, Mrs. Clara Noakes Nell, Riverton, Utah, Age 79; Great Grandmother, Mrs. Henrietta Nell Bills, Blackfoot, Idaho, age 63; Grandmother, Mrs. Clara Bills Wright, Blackfoot, Idaho, age 47; Father, Orice B. Wright, Idaho Falls, Idaho, Age 22; Baby, Kay W. Wright, age 8 months.
MRS. EVA L. H. CHRISTENSEN, PRESIDENT OF THE ELWOOD WARD RELIEF SOCIETY, BEAR RIVER STAKE, AND HER SEVEN DAUGHTERS
Great-Great Grandmother, Mrs. Nancy F. Reynolds, Age 78; Great Grandmother, Mrs. Martha A. Dodge, Age 62; Grandmother, Mrs. Edith Holliday, age 41; Mother, Mrs. Olene Welch, age 23; Baby, Edith Welch, age 4.
Wisdom By Christie Lund
You've traveled half the world away, And talked of things I'll never know; Still, I am wiser far than you, For I have watched a baby grow.
I've watched his tiny little form Grow to be stronger every day; I've helped him when he tried to walk, And laughed with him through hours of play.
I've listened to his baby talk, And watched his dimpled smile. I've cuddled him within my arms, And loved him all the while.
Yes, I have watched a baby grow, And none can wiser be; For, loving him, I've learned to know How dear a babe may be.
Intellectual Responsibility of Mothers By Heloise Day Merkley
Latter-day Saints are taught to consider this life in its relation to a pre-existent state as well as to the future. So, in discussing the problem of the mother's intellectual responsibility, we may say that it begins before she ever becomes a mother, though few of us realize this so early in life. The modern psychologist follows the example of the Latter-day Saint in tracing things backward, though he does it in this life only, and traces intellectual and physical traits to direct ancestors only, instead of into the spiritual life. The Eugenist lays great stress upon the heredity of the child. He tells the girl that the surest way in which she can help her children intellectually is by choosing for them a father with the proper intellectual equipment and from an intellectual family.
CHOICE OF A MATE
Eugenist, Psychologist, and Preacher all agree that it is important to choose the best possible mate if you would fulfill your intellectual responsibility to your children as their mother. But how many girls know anything about eugenics and heredity? Or, if they know, how many think seriously of such things when they decide to marry? Moonlight often plays a more important part in the choice than does Eugenics. Psychology yields place to the music of the dance hall. And if the preacher says much, the girl in love only looks deeper into the eyes of her lover and loves him the more.
Psychologists agree that he who dares to break away from an old, established religion, supported by custom, by law, and by the habits of a lifetime—he who dares seek to worship God according to the dictates of his own conscience, is always intellectually a little above the mass of those who cling to the old superstition. The Huguenots of France, the Protestants of England, the Puritans, the Quakers, the Methodists—all those who in days gone by dared to think for themselves and to pray for themselves—these are they who have leavened the nations with the brilliance of true intelligence. These people are recognized by psychologists as the cream of the European world intellectually. And it is from these
RESPONSIBILITIES OF MOTHERS 267
that the Church of Jesus Christ draws its recruits; not from those who are content with what their fathers believed because their fathers believed it, and intellectually too lazy to test that belief with the light of their own reason; not always from the rich, not always from the educated; but always, with scarcely an exception, the Gospel of Jesus Christ appeals to those who are not afraid to think for themselves. It appeals to those who are of greater spirituality and stronger character; but just now we limit ourselves to the question of the intellect.
When our parents and grandparents accepted the Gospel, they demonstrated their intellectual independence. They were not afraid to think for themselves. Therefore, we can say with Nephi—"I being blessed with goodly parents," etc. And when a Mormon girl goes to the temple and marries a good Mormon boy, there is not a great deal of doubt that she is giving her children a better intellectual heredity than she would be able to do in the world by choosing a mate from the same level in society.
MINDS ARE LIKE STEEL
It is just as important, of course, that the mother be intelligent as that the father be intelligent. But what brains she has, were given her by her parents, and are the best she can possibly acquire. If her mind is like tempered steel, hard to take an edge and firm to retain it, she is lucky; if it is poor metal, that she cannot help. But this much she can do: the best of steel if it is not sharpened may be as dull as the poorest; and the poorest, if properly sharpened, is much better than it would be if left dull. So, whatever her grade of intellect, she can, by self-development, make the most of it.
The modern psychologist says positively that the powers of the human mind are so great, the limit of perfection in intellectual attainment is so far away, that in this life it is probable that no human mind has ever attained its utmost progress. Cheer up! You may not think yourself brilliant; but remember it will take you several eternities to reach the limit of your intellectual development. If you strive with all your might, you may surpass, in less than one of those eternities, many whom you now suppose to be your intellectual superiors. Such steel as your mind is, sharpen it; make the most of it. Then you will be ready to help your children grow.
Another thing the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints offers is many organizations to its members. From the time the little tot can walk alone to Sunday school,
268 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
Primary, Religion Class, Mutual Improvement Associations, Seminaries, Priesthood Quorums, Relief Society, Genealogical Society, and finally to the Stake and General Boards; by becoming a teacher in this organization, or in that; by going on a mission, or even by being a silent member and sitting quietly and listening—one learns, learns, learns. There are sections in the daily newspapers devoted to the spread of information and culture. There are magazines by the thousand, which teach while they entertain. There are public libraries, schools, extension courses, and lecturers, all soliciting us to use them.
WHAT MOTHERS CAN ATTAIN
Great is the intellectual responsibility of the mother. She should prepare herself for it before she becomes a mother, and continue to grow afterward. But she need not be rich to do it. She need not travel. She need not even go to college. If she will attend the organization meetings, if she will open her eyes and read with a desire to learn, if she will open her ears and listen with the same desire, if she will open her lips and ask questions when opportunity affords to question those who know more than herself, she will learn and grow.
Never be afraid, O Mother, to reveal your ignorance by asking questions. There is no surer way to overcome ignorance than by asking them. There is no surer way to remain ignorant than to be afraid and keep still when you could learn something you need to know.
After the preparation of herself, comes the responsibility of the mother to guide the unfolding intellect of the child during the pre-school age. When the bright eyes of the toddler begin to notice and compare things in the world about, there comes a veritable deluge of questions. What is this? And why is that? And where did the other come from? Children at times ask questions that a philosopher could not answer. It is the mother's responsibility to answer carefully, truthfully, and simply. It may seem hard to explain things so that the child can understand. It may look easier to put him off with, "Oh, don't bother me, I'm busy," or "You're too little to understand. Don't ask such foolish questions." Refusal may take a little less thought and energy at the time; but later on the cost may be the loss of the child's confidence, the discouragement of his intellectual curiosity.
WHAT STORIES TO TELL
Then comes, over and over again, "Tell me a story;" until
RESPONSIBILITIES OF MOTHERS 269
it seems that every story in the world has been told, and he wants you to tell each one so many times that he may memorize it. Here the mother must exercise care. Tell stories freely—fairy stories, true stories; but let the child understand the difference. Avoid stories that develop fear—as of bears or Indians—or that may produce false ideals. Remember that the imagination of most children is so vivid that while they are listening breathlessly to a story, they are for the time being living that story. The little boy makes himself the hero of your tale. If you tell of Joseph, he wears the coat of many colors, is sold into Egypt, and triumphs in righteousness. If you tell of Peter Rabbit, the boy or girl who listens goes into the cabbage patch and hides from the farmer with all the keen emotion of the rabbit in the tale. He becomes, in turn, Little Bo Peep, Mistress Mary, and Simple Simon. Remember this and let your stories inspire admiration for the proper things. Don't point the moral too noticeably, but realize that in every interesting story there is some sort of moral. Let the child tell stories to you, encouraging him to be truthful; but if he begins to use his imagination and make up stories, listen and enjoy them and show him the difference between the things of the imagination and the things of fact.
When he is old enough to go to Sunday school and Primary, the mother who senses her intellectual responsibility will make an effort to send him there regularly. When he comes home beaming with enjoyment of the games and songs and stories, she will enjoy with him and will ask him to tell her what was done and said, thus impressing more deeply the things that the teacher has said. The child who tells to mother the interesting points of the reading lesson, or explains how to work the arithmetic problem, or who names the countries he has studied, or spells the words he has learned—that child will go back to school next day and be able to tell these things to his teacher and his mates, and his grades will rise.
LET CHILDREN TEACH YOU
Just here many mothers make a mistake. They suppose that in order to help their children, they must teach the children's lesson to them. But the very best way to help them is to get them to teach their lessons to you. If Johnny is stumped on an arithmetic problem, instead of working it to show him how, ask him questions about it, and about simpler ones of the same sort. Make him tell you the rules by which
270 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
it is worked. Nine times out of ten he will find his own mistake and triumphantly get the right answer for himself. In other words, he who teaches, learns faster than he who listens. Let your child learn by teaching you.
Encourage him; not with a scolding when he has failed, but with praise when he has succeeded. Don't be afraid of making him conceited. His mates and life itself will take conceit out of him if he gets too much. And the person who has self-esteem will have self-confidence to try for greater things. The person who thinks well of himself will be more successful than the one who is too humble to try. Be honest as possible. Don't praise him for something that is not good, nor boast about him to others, but children hunger for a word of praise, and long for appreciation, often thinking they would like to die just to hear people say nice things at their funeral. Praise overcomes stubbornness or laziness and is the great stimulant to high endeavor. Don't be afraid to praise your children when they have done something worth while; they will pay you by deserving more praise.
DON'T CRITICIZE THE TEACHER
And here is a don't. Please don't place before your child a stumbling block by criticizing his teacher. Go to the teacher and get her side of the story. Children often misunderstand what teacher says; sometimes they only half hear, or forget, or wrongly interpret things. Suppose you try a little experiment. Go to a meeting and write down word for word about three sentences of a speaker who impresses you. Then after meeting ask a friend just what it was he said about that certain subject. Compare the answer with your written record. Ask another friend, and still another. You will be amazed at the result. Within ten minutes after he spoke I have heard a speaker quoted as having said the exact opposite of what he actually did say. One partly hears, another interprets what he hears in the light of his own experience, and another seems to have heard backward. If grown-ups can so misunderstand a sermon what of a child? He probably tells you exactly what he understands. Even if you and the teacher should not be able to reach an understanding, don't make things worse for your child by letting him find it out. If you criticize the teacher, he cannot teach against prejudice and distrust.
When your daughter reaches adolescence she should be taught certain great truths of life. If you don't know just how, find in your community a trained nurse, an experienced teacher or a wise mother, who knows more than you. Go
RESPONSIBILITIES OF MOTHERS 271
to them privately and get them to teach you how to explain to your daughter. It may save her bitter humiliation later and save you the loss of her confidence. Even though school teachers may know more than you it is better to let them teach it to you and you pass it to your own child.
At the high school and college age, perhaps you think that your intellectual responsibility should be over. Perhaps you say that you never went to high school, so how can you help your children there?
YOU CAN ALWAYS TEACH
Remember that life is the best school. You can always be pretty sure that you know something your child doesn't yet know. And again, he who teaches learns. My own mother was always so eager to share the good things I got in school when I had gone farther than she, that each evening I used to give her a summary of each class or lecture. Many a time after two or three years in high school, I have taken notes of a lecture and gone home and reproduced it to her almost word for word; not because I had a good memory, but because she had trained it for me without my realizing that I was getting far more than I gave. I realize that now, and thank my mother for the help she gave me. But at the time I thought I was doing her a favor by taking the notes and remembering what went between them. You see, it wasn't the quality of the steel in my mind, but it was the sharpening she gave it.
But after all—when you have told your child stories, answered questions, asked questions, let him teach you the things he has learned. Train his memory by encouraging him with praise for what he has accomplished, and support his teachers that he may get all he can from them. Another responsibility, harder to put one's finger on, lies with you in the unguarded moments when you are not thinking about helping the child, when you are just doing your daily work and being yourself. If you are full of the desire for culture, if you are hungry for knowledge, if you love books, music, pictures, good deeds, and high ideals—all the rest will follow. If you love the gospel and seek after everything that is virtuous, lovely, or of good report or praiseworthy—then, as naturally as the plant turns to the light, your child will also seek these things. For if you love such things you will talk of them admiringly, you will fill your home with them, you will enjoy them with your child. And by this striving after good things to which you lead him, you will sharpen his intelligence, and increase his eternal glory. For the glory of God is intelligence.
A Tribute to Mother By Emily Borgeson Brown
Mother, giver of life and love, Thou who wert sent by God above,— Dear mother, we praise thee.
Thou who so nobly gavest thy heart To the mission thou wert set apart.— Mother, we adore thee.
Thou who hast healed each childish sore With the balm of love,—this and more, Kind mother, we trust thee.
Thou hast taught us, young, to bend the knee, Helped us the Gospel light to see,— Our mother, we thank thee.
Now that thy children all are grown, And youth and vigor have from thee flown, Mother, we plead with thee:
Give us freely of wisdom ripe, Goodness, of which thou art a type; Mother, God bless thee.
The Key By Lilith Shell
Francesca was going on eight when her mother went away. On a winter night while her husband, Angelo, was at his lodge and while her children were in their beds asleep, Maria Salvatore slipped away with Joe Macchia, the boarder. To say the least, this flight of his wife left Angelo's domestic menage in a critical state, considering the fact that Francesca was the eldest of his six children and that Cherubina, the baby, was only three weeks old. In between these two, ranging from two to seven, were Antonio, Nicky, Carmela, and Domineco. No wonder, then, when Angelo came home from lodge that night and found his bed empty—that is empty of his wife, for Cherubina, the baby and Carmela were there—that he flew into a rage and dragged Francesca from her couch, occupied also by Antonio and Domineco, and gave her a sound beating, this process punctuated profusely with oaths such as only an Italian father, pretty well heated with Italy's wine and bereft of the wife of his bosom, can use to advantage.
"Did not you to see her go?" he demanded, but Francesca could not answer him for crying; and he could not have heard her if she had, for the crying of the other children awakened by the turmoil.
"An' why not?" he demanded with further blows. "An' why not you to see your own mother go from her home? Say? An' with that Joe she has gone!" This last he uttered with a groan of extreme bitterness, flinging Francesca from him as if she had been guilty of the whole miserable affair and he feared contamination by further contact with her.
So Francesca crept into bed, pulling the covers over herself and her two brothers, reaching an occasional exploratory hand across them to be sure that they were not exposed to the cold. She lay awake a long time, long after the two little boys were soundly sleeping, long after she heard her father's snores coming, not from his own bed where he had been wont to sleep with his wife and at least two of the children, but from Joe Macchia's bed. (For why not enjoy the luxury of a private bed when it stood there empty?)
Then out from her bed Francesca crept and rubbed the aching welts on her arms and legs, on her face and neck and back where the heavy blows had fallen. With the still luke-warm water from the kettle she bathed the more obvious marks upon her face and arms. Tomorrow she must go to school; and the teachers, they ask you such questions—all about your underwear and look to see if you have any on, and about your stockings; and they look to see if your ears are washed and especially if you have
274 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
any blue marks on you like these were sure to be by morning. They ask you so embarrassing questions; and if you cannot right away think of something to tell them besides the truth, then they whisper something to the school nurse and lift up their eye-brows toward you and then she asks you, oh such sharp questions, and puts her hands on your shoulders and looks you square in the eye, and sometimes even she goes straight home with you and asks your mother or your father things, and then you get beaten again. So, Francesca, shivering in the bleakness of the room, laved and rubbed the tell-tale marks.
With the coming of the morning came also the imperative necessity of adjustment of some kind. Angelo's wrath, unabated after his night of heavy sleep, still fell heavily upon Francesca.
"You go take the baby to gran'," he ordered Francesca. "An' you tell to her I see her tonight myself, an' so you go an' you be back quick an' I talk to you some more."
In an unbelievable short time Francesca was back ready for her father's further "talk."
"Now you got to keep the house," he said to her. "You got to cook the dinner an' you got to keep the key."
With this brief disposal of his responsibility and with these meager instructions as to the business of managing a household, Angelo was off to his day's work—a day of well-ordered work with a definite number of hours in which to accomplish it, and under the direction of an efficient foreman.
Left to her task, Francesca dashed through with the dishes and set about getting Antonio and Nicky ready for school. She scrubbed them sketchily in spite of their vigorous protests, and hurried them away. She ran a broken comb over the surface of her own tangled hair and was in the act of rushing out and making a run for school herself, when the question of Carmela and Domineco presented itself. And there was the key. What should she do with the children? Lock them in—or out? Frantically she fingered the key and watched the hands of the clock flying toward nine while she tried to settle the thing. She could not lock them out; it was too cold and Carmela's shoes, they were all so broken. There was only one thing she could do—lock them in. Seizing Carmela by both arms and gazing through the smudgy little face down into the very soul of her, Francesca laid upon her four-year-old shoulders the responsibility of looking after Domineco.
"I give you a sucker, maybe, if you mind me," Francesca promised, then snatching her own dingy sweater she went out, closing the door behind her and turning the key in the lock.
She reached school just in time to receive a cutting reprimand from the teacher for tardiness. All forenoon she fingered the key in her sweater pocket, her
THE KEY 275
forced attention to her lessons being ever crowded in upon by the consciousness of the two little ones at home. Mixed with her four-times-four was the fear that Domineco might swallow a piece of coal, and she sang her "do re fa sol la ti do" to the dreadful tune of what if the house should catch on fire.
At noon recess she dashed down the street and into the alley where they lived. Antonio and Nicky were there before her and were pounding vociferously upon the door, while from within they were being answered by two lusty voices raised in doleful crying. This was a relief. Carmela and Domineco were at least not dead. With unpracticed fingers Francesca inserted the key and after a nervous twist or two the clamorous ones from the outside were mixing with the clamorous ones inside, the two couple making an indisputable crowd.
So helter-skelter, rush and hurry, slam-bang, sped the days for Francesca. Angelo Salvatore, having turned over his responsibilities to her, went on his way merrily enough, only some outstanding family disturbance causing him to come down upon the offender like a thousand of bricks. But after a little Francesca managed so to control the noisy brood that few outbreaks occurred in his presence.
"You wanna git hit hard, so?" she would say to Antonio and Nicky, giving a dramatic illustration of the situation indicated by the sharp so, "an' you wanna have teacher always asking you all time about how? An' you wanna have the nurse all time come here, huh?"
This argument was efficacious always, for the boys knew and dreaded the weight of their father's hand; and they, too, had squirmed under the pointed and personal questions of the teachers and the nurse.
Angelo carried home provisions—spaghetti and onions and rye bread, cabbage and white potatoes, and olive oil and coffee. Once a week he did this, on pay day, and Francesca made it do, although her own little bones almost rattled in her skin, and the noon lunch for the five of them was seldom anything more than cold coffee and a few scraps of stale bread. But with it all there was no burden like the key. The lock was none of the best and time after time Frankesca managed to get the key hopelessly hung in it. Her frantic haste in trying to extricate it only made it worse and there were times when she was compelled to go to school and worry all through the morning because she must needs leave the key hanging in the lock. Usually she could get Rigolo Calamarino, a big boy of twelve, to get it loose for her when school was out; but in the meantime there were Carmela and Domineco either locked in or, the key having become fast before the bolt was sprung, left free to run in and out as they pleased over a none too friendly neighborhood. 276 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Then one day she lost the. Key. It had been in her sweater pocket; she put it there as she ran to school; she remembered that very well. But when she came home at noon it was gone, And although she tracked back over the route and although Antonio and Nicky went over the ground inch by inch, the key was nowhere to be found. What to do? Francesca wrung her hands in despair. There were Carmela and Domineco howling inside and the two boys at her elbow making futile suggestions while time was flying. At last, when nothing she could contrive availed her anything and the tears were washing Francesca's thin little cheeks, Rigolo came again to her rescue with a rusty skeleton key which served as well as the much lamented lost one. Angelo knew nothing of these tragedies. Zealously Francesca charged the younger children to silence, not only about the key but about all their affairs, good, bad, and indifferent. What she could she herself dealt with; what she could not, she left on the lap of the gods. For how was she to know, or how were the others, what would make their father angry or what would please him? So Angelo worked at his job, went to his lodge one night a week, brought home provisions, and Francesca worried through. The school nurse kept the family upon her list and time and again went to the home—now certainly no longer having any claim to that magic word—to the hovel, rather. While Angelo's understanding of family needs reached far enough to cover the weekly basket of provisions, it did not reach to any such thing as the renewal of household supplies and clothing, and these were provided only at the insistent demands and sometimes even threats of that dreaded personage, the nurse. "Dam' fool woman," was Angelo's sullen comment upon her when she had gone after compelling him to exercise some interest in his brood. But always and always there was the key, a perfect nightmare to the frantic and harassed child mother. It was so hard to remember where one put it. Since the time the original one had been lost and Rigolo had so kindly allowed her to keep the skeleton key, she had tied a white string to it—a long white string which soon became greasy and black; but it did help to locate the elusive key. This one, too, would often get fast in the lock, and sometimes she would even forget to lock the door—forget it entirely in the hurly-burly of getting herself and the others off to school. One black day when she had forgotten, had left the miserable key lying brazenly on the kitchen table, Angelo came home in mid afternoon, a contingency never once taken into consideration by Francesca. It had never occurred before in her memory. But this day something broke at the shop and he was off, the very day of all days when she had so flagrantly forgotten to lock the THE KEY 277 door. When Angelo tried the knob and the door responded hot anger welled up within him and the sight of the key there on the table increased his wrath. "She catch-a eet," he muttered. "I geev-a eet to her." And he did. Poor Francesca, having remembered her delinquency too late, rushed home in a perfect turmoil of distraction the moment she was free, only to find her father standing there with the accusing key in his hand. Terribly he talked to her and so loud; and most frightfully he knocked her about with his hard hands and with the rung from a broken old chair. Francesca bit her lip and closed her eyes and clenched her bony little fists in her determination not to cry out, but at last her pain and fright became so intense that she could no longer refrain and from her throbbing throat she sent up piercing shriek after shriek. Too bad! Too bad! For Mary Patcholoff next door rushed in, and partly because she had no love for the grouchy Angelo and partly because she had a great pity in her heart for Francesca, but mainly because she reveled in the spectacular, she called the police; and Angelo spent the night in the lock up and lost another whole day's work on the morrow before he could get the matter explained. "All," Francesca wept bitterly and self-accusingly, "all because of forgetting that old key—that old, old, hateful key." She needed the beating, she granted, only maybe not so much, and not such loud scolding. And how much she ought not to have cried out that way. But truly, she defended herself, she had become afraid he was never going to stop at all, and then who would look after the children and who would keep the key? One day when Francesca came home from school there stood the door wide open. Frantically she dived for the key. There it was in her pocket. But this fact to the contrary notwithstanding, there was the door open. As Francesca drew nearer it was plain to be seen that there was someone moving about inside the kitchen; and it was not her father. Francesca stopped. How was this? Had someone found the lost key and opened the door? Her eyes narrowed ominously. She would deal with this thing, whatever it was. But what was it? Cautiously she edged up to the door. Inside there was certainly an astounding sight. There was a woman—a nice youngish looking woman with a pink dress and a cap, a white cap with lace all around it and a little bunch of pink ribbon on one side of it. The woman was standing at the stove stirring something, and upon the table was a pie. Furthermore the kitchen floor was scrubbed and there were\clean papers spread all about. All this (Francesca saw before the woman saw her. But this was her house and boldly she stepped inside. At the sound made by her entrance the woman turned. 278 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE "Oh—o-h-h—" the woman gasped and something inside her sent a blush over her dark cheeks—a blush almost as pink as her dress. 'Why, my Francesca," she cried. But Francesca only stood still and stared. The nice looking woman laid down the spoon with which she had been stirring at the stove, and Francesca became conscious of a most delectable odor—the heavenly smell of tomatoes and onions and—what else? Francesca had not time to figure it out, for the woman came over to her and laying her hands upon the girl's sharp little shoulders, turned her about. "Kiss-a your mother, little one," she crooned, and there was a catch in her voice and a mist in her eyes. "Have you come back here to live?" Francesca demanded. "Yes-a, you see, my little one," the woman smiled brightly. "All time?" Francesca was cautious and incredulous. "Sure-a," laughed the woman. ''You're hair need-a de cut," she added, "and' where-a de boys an' Carmela an' de bab'?" "The boys, they come-a soon," answered Francesca, "an' go get-ta de hab' an' I bring-a, too, Carmela." As Francesca turned to rush over to gran's, the weight of the key in her pocket struck against her leg, calling her attention to it. "Here-a," she said, mater-of-factly unfastening the safety pin which held the greasy string of! The key, "you stay-a here, then you keep-a de key," and as the pink woman took it, something went out from Francesca—a great emptiness seemed to engulf: her, a feeling of freedom, of release so great that she could in no way comprehend it. A violent trembling shook her little frame from head to foot, and dropping into a chair she let her head fall upon the table and sob after sob wracked her. "For all-a," cried her mother, "what-ta you cry for? Cause I come-a home? You sorr-a I come-a back-a home, little one?" "No—no," sobbed Francesca. "I'm-a glad. The key. I give-a to you de key." The next morning Francesca, more neatly dressed than the teacher had ever seen her, and with her coarse hair cut and smoothly combed, came into the school room full ten minutes before school time. "Why, Francesca,' you are." Slipping to the teacher's side, Francesca made lucid explanations. "Yes-a, ma'am, my mama, she come home. She cook-a de breakfas' and," running her brown hand pridefully over her black hair, "'she cut-a an' comb-a my hair, too. An'," here Francesca's thin shoulders lifted and she spread out her palms dramatically, "an' teacher, now I have not to lock-a de door and not nor more to keep-a de key. My mama, now She keep-a de key. And with a care-free smile Francesca sought her seat. ' said the teacher, "how bright and early Notes from the Field Amy Brown Lyman German-Austrian Mission During the general conference of the missionaries, and the Dr. Karl G. Maeser 100th birthday anniversary held at Meissen and Dresden, Germany, January 14 to 19, luncheon was served each day under the supervision of Mrs. Rose Ellen B. Valentine, president of the Relief Societies of this mission, who was assisted by the following: Martha Scharschuck, Alma Hurst, Martha Breitfeld, Marie Wenzel, Magdalene Schaeckel, Marie Breifeld GERMAN-AUSTRIAN RELIEF SOCIETY OFFICERS Mrs. Ella B. Valentine, President, is second from the left in the front row. And Gertrud Kranisch. The luncheons were served cafeteria style. On the first day 161 people were served in 8 minutes and 2 seconds with the following menu: 2 slices of whole-wheat buttered bread, 2 rolls, one pair of weinies, and an American Jonathan apple. On the second day 160 people were served in 7 minutes with 2 slices of whole-wheat bread, two buttered rolls, a "well groomed" raw carrot and a service of sweet chocolate. On the third day 280 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE 163 people were served in 5 minutes and 20 seconds with a luncheon consisting of 2 slices of whole-wheat buttered bread with Swiss cheese, 2 rolls, a naval orange, and 3 pieces of honey candy. The average cost of the luncheons was 42 German pfennigs, or 10 cents each, and they were so much appreciated by those in whose behalf they were served that on the last day the Elders were anxious to give three "rahs" for the Relief Society. St. George Stake In the latter part of February, 1928, a very enjoyable social was held at the home of Counselor Hannah M. Mathis, in honor of Counselor Agries E. Winsor, whose failing health compelled resignation, and six retiring stake board members, namely, Emily C. Brooks, Mary Jarvis, Paralee A. Miles, Emmeline J. Cottam, Julia Graff, and Emma Squires. Nearly all of these women had served 20 years or more and President Jos. K. Nicholas gave them an honorable release with deep appreciation for their long and faithful service. At the party tokens of regard were presented, and expressions of love and appreciation were made. Each member contributed to the program an amusing experience, and an original poem was read by Mabel Jarvis, after which delicious refreshments were served. Shelley Stake Reorganized On February 5, 1928, the Shelley stake Relief Society was reorganized. Mrs. Mary E. Freeman, who has served so well and faithfully as stake president for a number of years, was given an honorable release, together with the members of her board. Mrs. Cora Christensen, former secretary of the stake, was chosen as president, with the following assistants: Counselors, Mrs. Bessie Kelley and Mrs. Lula Bowles; secretary-treasurer, Mrs. Kathryn E. Lawrence. On March 2, a social was given in honor of the retiring board by the new board and the ward officers combined. The 8 retiring board members were each presented with a very appropriate gift in appreciation of their labors, and an interesting program was rendered, after which refreshments were served. Mexican Mission The accompanying portrait is that of a Lamanite sister, Refugio (Cuca) Auriola. She is the daughter of an Indian chief, Victor Adame, of San Juan Del Mosquital, Zacatecas. The early history of her life would furnish material for a thrilling romance. However, she was led in a providential way to marry a man of education and refinement, professor of Spanish and English. By this union her splendid, natural faculties were developed, and she became a missionary for the Southern Methodist Church, being active and ardent in the missionary work of that church for 10 years among the Mexican people. Her husband, Carlos Montero, NOTES FROM THE FIELD 281 having died, she was living with her present husband in E] Paso, Texas, when she met the Latter-day Saint elders. She became an investigator and after 2 years of deliberation acknowledged the authority of the restored Priesthood and was baptized May 1, 1922, REFUGIO (CUCA) AURIOLA AND ANGELITA LOZANO by Elder Ralph A. Ward. From El Paso she has gone to Los Angeles, where she is assisting greatly the Elders who are working in the Mexican mission. She is possessed of a great earnestness and convincing power, and never tires of preaching the gospel and defending its truths under all circumstances. The, little girl is Angelita Lozano, whose mother died a faithful member of the Church. Northern States Mission A most illuminating comparative report has just been received from the Northern States mission, which includes the following Relief Society organizations, ten in all: Aurora, Cincinnati, Detroit, Grand Rapids, Indianapolis, Logan Square, Milwaukee, Peoria, Peru, University. The totals show—number of members 269; average attendance, 41%; meetings held, 365; paid for charity, $294.41; number of families helped, 65; percent taking Magazine, 52%; number of officers taking Magazine, 36; paid dues, 88%; days spent in temple work, 404; Books of Mormon distributed, 86; gospel conversations, 1,206. The average attendance and the average percent of members taking the Relief Society Magazine, are both especially high compared with the general 282 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE average of the whole Society. Five of the organizations paid 100% annual dues, which was very good. The number of days spent in temple work, or days provided for was unusually good— averaging a little more than one and one-eighth days for each Relief Society member in the whole mission. The women have also done noteworthy work in distributing the Book of Mormon and in gospel conversations. Mrs. Rachel Grant Taylor, who has been released as president of the Relief Societies of this mission, must take great pride in this excellent report. Teton Stake Teton stake made an excellent showing last year in the planting of trees, plants, and shrubs, as will be seen by the following report: Trees planted on public grounds, court house, 8 maples, 2 weeping willows; public square, 100 Norway maples; stake house, 7 silver maples, 15 golden willows; Driggs Tourist Park 12 silver maples; high school, 20 Norway maples. At residences and other places 629 shade and ornamental trees have been planted. Throughout the valley besides, 52 lilac bushes; 38 rose bushes; 122 gooseberry bushes; 70 currant bushes; 12 raspberry plats; 24 strawberry beds; 11 pie-plant beds; 2 asparagus beds (the latter an experiment); 168 vegetable gardens; 136 flower gardens; 15 new lawns and 2 replanted. Three wards reported that all families had planted vegetable and flower gardens, and 100% had started a goodly number of house plants. Pocatello Stake. (Charity Funds Increased) To encourage larger family contributions to the Relief Society, the Pocatello Stake last year held a very successful contest in which a prize was offered to the ward having the highest percent of families donating each month. The ward winning the award secured nearly 100%, every family except one, in the ward donating each month. This contest stimulated the work of the visiting teachers, and increased considerably the donations throughout the stake. In September, 1927, an excellent Teachers' Convention was held. There was a good attendance and representatives from out-lying districts. After a fine musical program the following subjects were ably treated: qualifications of a teacher to know the gospel, to love the gospel, and to live the gospel; teaching as a Relief Society activity, including the purpose, the proper method of teaching, the spirit of family visiting, and the attitude of the visiting teacher. A lively discussion followed. One of the most enjoyable events of the past year was the December. Banquet tendered. To the old folks by the stake board, assisted by the local presidents. All over 65 years of age were given ribbon badges designating their age. Over 125 were seated at three large tables, artistically decorated in Christmas colors. After an excellent program of toasts, music, stories, and readings, the pioneers rendered songs which were sung while they were crossing the plains, and an old-time NOTES FROM THE FIELD 283 orchestra furnished music for quadrilles and dances in vogue 50 years ago. Juarez Stake. (In Memoriam) The Juarez stake has sustained a great loss in the death of Mrs. Maggie Ivins Bentley, who departed this life January 14, 1928, at her home in Colonia Juarez. Her life of public service began in the Primary Association—first in the ward and then in the stake; but for the past two years, she has been associated with the Juarez Stake Board Relief Society, where her work, together with her superior wisdom, made her a valuable member. Mrs. Bentley was born March 31, 1868, in St. George, Utah, the daughter of Israel and Julia (Hill) Ivins, and sister of President A. W. Ivins. She was the wife of Joseph C. Bentley of the Juarez stake. She left her home in Southern Utah in her early married life, and with her husband and small family cast her lot with the. Early settlers in the "Mormon" colonies of Mexico. She has been an active worker in both ward and stake capacities, and has endeared herself to both old and young alike. She was a faithful wife, a devoted and wise mother, and an efficient home-maker. She was the mother of nine children, three of whom preceded her to the great beyond. And besides this she has mothered five of her husband's children by his wife Gladys Woodmansee, daughter of Emily Hill Woodmansee, these children reciprocating her love and care. Asa dispenser of charity her liberality was unbounded. That she leaves a multitude of admiring friends was testified to by the packed house, the banks of beautiful flowers, and by the host of sympathizing friends who attended the funeral service. Carbon Stake (Castle Gate Ward) Following is a song which took second prize in a contest conducted in the ward. It was written by Rachel B. Olsen, as a tribute to several of the district teachers who were moving away. A Fonp Goop Nicut (Tune: "Just Before the Battle, Mother) Now at parting, our dear Sisters, Weare thinking most of you, From our ward you'll soon be leaving With a work of love to do. Should you there be serving others, May you then have peace and love; Gentle as the dew of morning Be distilled from up above. Chorus: Courage! Sisters, may you ever Keep this holy thought in view, God will ever guard and keep you: If to him you're firm and true. 284 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE May your joy in serving others, Reach their hearts with love and light, Touch the soul of every person, By defending truth and right. Then what joy will fill your being, If it keeps the hearts you touch; Yes, your souls will shine in splendor And your friends will love you much. When your life is nearly over, When you've reached a good old age; God's clear light will shine about you, Joy and friendship, be your wage, Then, dear sisters, may he bless you, If you labor with delight, Keep you well and keep you holy! Now, we bid a fond goodnight. Grant Stake (Hillcrest Ward) Mrs. Ernest Bramwell of Hillcrest ward has contributed the following song which is very appropriate for "Home Night." Home NIGHT (Tune: "Do What Is Right") Home night tonight! Just home-folks together, Mingling our voices in prayer and in song. Praising, rejoicing, then frolicing after, Learning the way to choose right and shun wrong. Chorus: Home night! Dear home night! Offenses forgotten Bickerings silenced and love in full sway; Ties everlasting are newly begotten, Each of us strengthened and cheered on our way. Home night tonight! The weekly reunion Promised by prophets the "Pearl" to secure, If parents, children, in holy communion Earnestly learn of God's laws chaste and sure. Years come and go, so dear ones must wander, Links will be broken and hearts weary grow. But they'll remember, and oft will they ponder Precepts love-given round home altar's glow. Home night! Dear home night! When earth life is over, May we yet keep thee and greet thee with song. As we advance, knowledge true to discover, With Christ and Father, in heaven our home. Relief Society Annual Report 1927 Amy Brown Lyman—General Secretary FINANCIAL ACCOUNT Cash Receipts Balance on hand January 1, 1927: Charity Fund..............-002-$ 29,327.07 General Fund........117,490.66 Wheat Trust Fund............... 20,626.08 Total Balance, January 1...... Donations Received During 1927: Charity Fund.........$ 87,967.87 General Fund........121,599.75 Annual Dues.........23,209.59 Other Receipts..... 67,277.53 Total Receipts "Total Balance on hand and Receipts.... Cash Disbursements Paid for Charitable Purposes.....$100,105.39 Paid for General Purposes....... 131,379.75 Wheat Trust Fund Remitted to Presiding Bishop's Office... 1,830.61 Annual Dues paid to General Board and to Stake Boards... 25,651.41 Paid for Other Purposes......... 35,710.44 Total Disbursements........ Balance on hand December 31, 1927: Charity Fund................26.$ 30,856.55 General Fund................... 122,657.43 Wheat Trust Fund.............. 19,306.97 Total Balance, December 31.. $167,443.81 $300,054.74 $294.677.60 $172,820.95 Total Disbursements and Balance on Hand. ASSETS AND LIABILITIES Assets: Balance on hand December 31, 1927: - All Funds.............. $172,820.95 Wheat Trust Fund Deposited at Presiding Bishop's Office.... 397,407.67 Other Invested Funds........... 57,815.70 Value of Real Estate and Build.. 230,298.75 Value of Furniture and Fixtures... 55,477.58 Other Assets........ 27,742.12 $941,562.77 $467,498.55 $467,498.55 286 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Stake Board, Cash Balances on hand' December 31, 1927...........$ 27,834.71 Other Assets........36,083.44 $ 63,918.15 Total Assets,............. $1,005,480.92 Liabilities: Indebtedness.........$ 935.02 Balance Net Assets............. 940,627.75 $941,562.77 Stake Board Indebtedness....... 160.72 Balance Net Assets............ 63,757.43 $ 63,918.15 STATISTICS Membership:: January 1, 1927: Executive and Special Officers.... 10,154 Visiting Teachers..............6. 20,164 Members.........0cccescceecceee 30,971 Total Membership January 1.. 61,289 Increase: Admitted to Membership During Year 8,390 69,679 Decrease: Removed or Resigned.............. 7,083  Total Decrease......... 7,859 61,820 Membership: December 31, 1927: Executive and Special Officers... 10,250 Visiting Teachers............. 20,565 Members....... 31,005 Total Membership December 31......... 61,820 The Total Membership Includes: General Officers and Board Members........ 22 Stake Officers and Board Members..........1,010 Mission Presidents and Officers............. 62 Number of Stakes.......... 99 Number of Missions........ 26 Number of Relief Society Ward Organizations.......... 1,558 Number of Visiting Teachers' Districts.............. 10,348 Number of L. D. S. Families in Wards................104,641 Number of L. D. S. Women, non-members, eligible..... 31,748 Number of Relief Society Magazines taken as reported... 23,575 Number of Executive Officers Taking R. S. Magazine... 5,531 Number of Meetings held in Wards..............00e00 54,317 Number of Stake Meetings Held................2000 2,003 Total Net Assets and Liabilities........ $1,005,480.92 RELIEF SOCIETY ANNUAL REPORT 287 Number of Stake and Ward Officers (Union)  979 Number of Ward Conferences Held.................. 1,125 Average Attendance at Ward Meetings............... 22,590 (41.6%) Number of Visits by Visiting Teachers.............-..686,605 Number of Families Helped................16,762 Number of Days Spent With the Sick.................4. 52,613 Special Visits to the Sick and Homebound..........189,302 Number of Days Spent in Temple Work...............129,368 Number of Bodies Prepared for Burial................ 2,406 Number of Visits to Wards by Stake Officers.......... 5,002 (NOTE: The average attendance at Relief Society meetings in the last 5 years has increased from 33% to 41.6%.) COMPARATIVE FIGURES FROM RELIEF SOCIETY REPORTS 1925 1926 1927 Paid for charitable purposes..........$100,055.56 $ 96,017.19 $100,105.39 Total or present membership......... 61,066 61 627 61,820 No. Of Relief Society Organizations.. 1,463 1,528 1,558 No. Of Relief Society Magazines taken 23,176 23, 220 23,575 Days spent with sick..............6. 49,300 51,249 52.613 Special visits to sick and home bound.. 178,885 185,007 189,302 Families helped.............13,754 13,695 16,762 Number of visits by stake Relief Society Officers to wards........ 5,128 4,511 5,002 Number of visits by Relief Society visiting teachers.............0-- 643,657 688,154 686,605 Number of days spent in temple work 119, 566 122,013 129,368 DISTRIBUTION OF MEMBERSHIP OF RELIEF SOCIETY Stakes Missions Arizona....... 2,024 Australia......... 77 California..........1,257 Ganadae- 152 (Canaday.  25.).. 1,303 Europe......... 4826 Colorado...............6. 410 Hawaii.....  814 Idaho............10,184 Mexico........ 96 Mexico..............000- 186 New Zealand............. 543 Nevada.............0000. 575 Samoa.........291 Oregon............-0000. 204 South Africa............. 46 ... 237 Wyoming.............065 1,499 5" See 96 United States............. 3,872 Total Membership in Total Membership in Stakes..............50,770 Missions...........11,050 Total Membership in Stakes and Missions............. Cccccceeee61,820 (NOTE: In the foregoing report all funds are held and disbursed in the various wards, with the exception of the annual membership dues.) 1927 CORRESPONDENCE (Office of General Secretary) Letters received from Stakes and Missions............ 2,200 Letters received from other sources....... 300 Total letters received.... 2,500 Letters sent to Stakes and Missions........... 2,250 Letters sent to others......... 250 Total letters sent......2,500, LESSON II Work and Business (Second Week in July) TEACHERS' TOPIC FOR JULY—THE HOME Reading in the Home "Books are indeed like friends, but in one's technical library they are even more; they are not only friends but dear counselors and advisors, helpers upon whose aid and wisdom one can rely; their presence makes one rich; their loss no weight of gold can replace; they are indeed partners in the business of life." I. Value of the reading habit. A. To the family group. B. To the individual. II. What to read. A. Books of knowledge. B. Inspiring literature. C. Good magazines. D. Standard Church Works, D. And C. 88:118, D. And C. 88:77, III. When to read. A. Value of regular reading habits. B. The importance of suitable time and surroundings. IV. Children's corner. A. Guiding the child's reading. "A few choice books are a wonderful force in establishing home ties." "No book is worth anything which is not worth much; nor is it serviceable until it has been read and re-read, and loved and loved again, and marked so that you can refer to the passages you want in it."—Ruskin. f— Flower Seed FOR YOUR "GARDEN BEAUTIFUL" Plant Now Sweet Alyssum, Marigolds, Bachelor Button, Sweet Sultan, Snapdragons, Cosmos, Calendula, Nasturtiums, Poppies, Zinnias and scores of other desirable varieties for your flower garden. P-W'S COLLECTION ANNUAL FLOWERS One 10c pkt. Each of 13 Selected Hardy Profuse Blooming Annuals For $1.00 Postpaid Dahlia and Gladioli Bulbs in Great Assortment PORTERWALTON CO. 42 West First South Salt Lake City, Utah a CONSERVATIVE INVESTMENTS 28 years experience specializing in high grade investments. Send for our list of recommendations EDWARD L. BURTON & CO. 160 So. Main Wasatch 866 — SCOWCROFT'S Blue Pine Preserves Are composed of only pure fruit and sugar cooked together in an open kettle just as you would make preserves in your own home. For something special ask your grocer for SCOWCROFT'S Blue Pine Raspberry Preserve. It has the flavor of fresh berries. V Kitchen King Jam Is composed of pure fruit, sugar and pectin in proper proportions to make a delicious jam. Try Kitchen King Raspberry Jam for a delicious spread. When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine various lines of goods they carry. Ud PRS RELIEF SOCIETY (= \ > Seven WE are very careful in Ti selecting our advertisement reliable and we recommend ' of the them to our readers when making purchases in the World Sent to you on Free Trial MAGAZINE Management. Utah Power & Light Co. And. Eureka Vacuum Cleaner Co.: l 111 E. 2nd So. St., Salt Lake City S — = L. D. S. BUSINESS COLLEGE Summer School Opens June 4th Prepare during the summer for employment at the time when the demand for trained workers is the greatest. "The Best For Less" SHORTHAND $15.00 Per Month. Why Pay More? Wasatch 1812 Complete Courses in all Commercial Subjects SPEEDWRITING BOOKKEEPING L. D. S. BUSINESS COLLEGE TRAINING DOESN'T COST—IT PAYS! \\ When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine Advertisers. They are thoroughly Champion Special Sale of VANITY Full Fashioned Hosiery 42 GUAGE, OF FINEST SILK An all over silk chiffon stocking—a real $1.95 value at the special price of $1.59. Box of three pair $4.55. Extra heavy service weight, silk to welt. Mercerized heel and toe. A real value at $1.95, special price of $1.59, a box of three pair $4.55. A semi-chiffon stocking, silk to welt. Mercerized heel and toe. A real value at $1.85, special price $1.49, box of three pair $4.25. All new goods. All the new shades. Mail orders filled. On sale. Glazier & Taylor Hosiery Co. 74 Main Street—59 East Broadway, Salt Lake City VANITY HOSIERY SHOPPE 22 East Broadway THIS TRADE MARK IS YOUR GUARANTEE ASTARS MADE IN SALT LAKE CITY It represents all that is improved, modern and efficient in RADIO LOUD SPEAKERS. Utah Radio Products Co, <S SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH MADE IN SALT LAKE CITY When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine THE BRICK MAN Says: “Man is that he might have joy!” Joy-thru service! Joy-thru nobility of soul! Joy-thru peace and faith! Joy-thru assembling together to worship in the many beautiful new chapels recently erected. Worthy houses built of worthy material Brick! Brick, rich in the heritage of time, age old, thoroughly dependable, beautiful, dignified and altogether fitting material from which to erect a house of worship! Build Worthily-Use Brick. THE SALT LAKE PRESSED BRICK COMPANY 319 Kearns Bldg Salt Lake City, Utah Phones: Wasatch 950—Wasatch 951 We will pay 20c per copy for a limited number of the following numbers of the Relief Society Magazine September and October, 1927. June and September Bulletin—1914 Mail to RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE ~ INDIVIDUAL Best in the Market Will Last a Life Time, 36 Glasses in Bach Tray SACRAMENT SETS Churches, and successfully used in Utah and intermountain region, also in all Missions in the United States, Europe, and Pacific Islands. Basic metal, Nickle Silver, heavily plated with Solid Silver. SIMPLE, SANITARY, DURABLE Satisfaction guaranteed Inquiries cheerfully answered Bureau of Information L Temple Block Salt Lake City When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine 319 Kearns Bldg.  Room 20, Bishop's Bldg. NOW IN STOCK. Salt Lake City, Utah) Salt Lake City, Utah —— Made especially for L. D. S.  Musings and Memories A Wonderful Collection of Original Poems by EMMELINE B. WELLS During March we offered the few remaining copies at a "Memorial" price of $1.25 Postpaid. There are still a few copies left. During May we will hold this offer open Order early—you surely want a copy of this book by your late remarkable leader After May These Books Will Sell at $1.50 or More Deseret Book Company P, O. Box 1793 Wedding Bells | Always Ring in June Our advice to those who may be concerned: Right now is the time to decide who will make your Announcements or Invitations. You should entrust this work to a firm that assures you the newest in style and correctness in taste. See us now or send for samples and prices of Printed, New Process Embossed or Engraved Wedding } Stationery. Our Line of Social Stationery is Complete and Prices Right The Deseret News Press 29 Richards Street SALT LAKE CITY When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine 44 East on South Temple Salt Lake City, Utah Ask Your Dealer for Z. C. M. I. Factory-Made Children's Allovers Khaki and White Khaki and Peggy  Backed Denim for Clothes, Dutch Kut Boys For Girls The Famous Mountaineer Overalls Give Splendid Satisfaction THE BRICK MAN Says: "Man is that he might have joy!" Joy-thru service! Joy-thru nobility of soul! Joy-thru peace and faith! Joy-thru assembling together to worship in the many beautiful new chapels recently erected. Worthy houses built of worthy material— BRICK! BRICK, rich in the heritage of time, age-old, thoroughly dependable, beautiful, dignified— and altogether fitting material from which to erect a house of worship! Build Worthily—USE BRICK! THE SALT LAKE PRESSED BRICK COMPANY Phones: Wasatch 950—Wasatch 951 - When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine 319 Kearns Bldg. Salt Lake City, Utah SUMMER GARMENTS OF APPROVED L. D. S. STYLES Selected from our extensive line of L. D. S. Garments we suggest the following numbers for summer wear: special ladies' number High grade Rayon Tricobleached 5  In addition to the summer styles, we carry a complete line of wool, cotton and wool, worsted wool with silkine mercerized cotton. Prices range from $2.25 to $5.75. In ordering, be sure to specify whether old or new style garments, three-quarter or ankle length legs, short or long sleeves are wanted. Also give bust measure, height and weight to insure perfect fit. THE ORIGINAL UTAH WOOLEN MILLS 34 Block South of Temple Gate LD. S. GARMENTS DIRECT FROM FACTORY You are guaranteed unusual wear and satisfaction from Cutler Garments. Return them for full refund if they do not give this required service. Cutler Underwear has maintained the highest standard of quality for over twenty No. 68 Lt. Wt. Ladies' new ¥ al style $ 75 No. 74 Lt. Weight combed........ 115 No. 64 Medium weight............ 1.45 No. 76 Lt. Weight lisle............ 1.45 No. 62 Medium heavy............ 1.70 No. 61 Med. Hvy. Unbleached with double back.................. 1.70 No. 56 Heavy weight................ 2.15 No. 27 Med. Heavy, 4 wool...... 3.35 No. 39 Extra heavy, § wool.... 3.85 Please state whether for men or women—new or old style Postage prepaid Pay Cash—Cash Pays When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine Ribbed, light weight cotton with rayon silk stripe. An all-seasons number of ribbed, med. Wt. Cotton Briant Stringham, Manager has maintained the highest standard. Ribbed, light weight cotton, our standard summer w...$1.25 sham silk, an exceptional number for particular people 28 Richards Street At Less half L. D. S. GARMENTS Style, and if for man or lady. Postage prepaid. Sample on request. 258 Double Card, Cot., Med. Wt. 1.95 628 Merc. Lisle, Light Wt......... 250 BARTON & CO. Established in Utah 45 Years Good grade, and well made. When ordering, state Size, New or Old 142 Flat Weave, Lt. Weight.. A 24 264 Rayon Silk 33.50 y2a Cotton, Rayon Stripes. L.D.S. 754 Bleached Cot., Hvy. Wt..... 2.25 908 Unbleached Cot., Ex. Hvy. 2.75 108 Unbleached Cot., Med. Wt... 1.85 1072 Mixed Wool and Cotton.......4.00  FOR YOUR VACATION Visit Utah's Playgrounds FOR YOUR HOUSEHOLD Use Utah's Sugar SEE AND SELL OUR NATURAL WONDERS BOOST AND BUY LOCAL PRODUCTS BOTH ARE INCOMPARABLE 4 BEST er TES Special Sunday Bricks and Neapolitan Bricks 25c pt., 50c qt. Call Your Keeley's Dealer. Extra packed in Ice, TEMPLE AND BURIAL CLOTHES COMPLETE SUITS FOR MEN AND WOMEN Variety of Grades and Prices. Prompt and Careful Attention To Mail—Telephone—Telegraph Orders Open Daily, 9 a. M.—5 p. M. GENERAL BOARD RELIEF SOCIETY Phone Wasatch 3286, 29 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah dr =) When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine 208 Carded Cotton, Med. Lt....... 32 Combed Cotton, Light Wt.. 1:50 142 WEST SOUTH TEMPLE ST. 217 Fine Lisle, Rayon Stripe.... 2.25 748 Unbleached Cot., Hvy. Wt... 2.00 Salt Lake City, Utah \ Ask for one of our folders describing the different services we offer. Ce Le Ss LAUNDRY Hyland 190 Distinctive Work Office 319 S. Main St. = SF (- Let Hotpoint Irons save you work, worry and money. For only $3.95 you can buy the regular model 6 lbs. Hotpoint Iron. Why buy cheaper brands, if for so little money you can get an Iron that will give you a Life-Time of service? Modern Electric Company "The Hotpoint Shop"  YOUNG SAMSON knows what he's aiming at—a bottle of our rich, creamy milk. It's a ringer every time, and the prize is health. CLOVER LEAF DAIRY m* We shoulda drunk more | ilk. When we wuz kids~ f-— Was. 2307 128 South State St. Electrical Dealers & Contractors 159 W. 1st So. Was. 2177 ye 4p = USE HUSLER'S FLOUR Made in SALT LAKE CITY When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine CONTENTS  JUNE, 1928. Frontispiece Relief Society Conference— Officers' Meeting (Morning Session)... 292 Officers' Meeting (Afternoon Session).. Theology Section............. BAC 0 Literary Section Social Service Department Choristers and Organists' Department 318 General Session (Morning) General Session (Afternoon).......... 334 Substitution..., Alberta Huish Christensen 341 Be With Me, Lord.. Annie Pike Greenwood 342 June.......... Christie Lund 343 The Great Salt Lake.... Linda S. Fletcher 344 Work and Business Pictures Organ of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints Room 20 Bishop's Bldg. Salt Lake City, Utah $1.00 a Year—Single Copy, 10c Foreign, $1.25 a Year—15c Single Copy Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah Phone Wasatch 3123 AMY BROWNLYMAN Vic C IC ICO OAC I TTT IAAT TAT GENERAL PRESIDENCY AND GENERAL SECRETARY OF THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY THE Relief Society Magazine VOL. XV JUNE, 1928 No. 6 Relief Society Conference Mrs. Amy Brown Lyman, General Secretary The Annual Conference of the Relief Society was held April 4 and 5, 1928, in Salt Lake City. President Clarissa S. Williams presided. She was assisted by Counselor Jennie B. Knight, who conducted the meetings. The following sessions were held: An officers' meeting for general stake and mission officers; three department meetings; a breakfast session for stake and mission presidents; and two general sessions. The department meetings, which were an innovation, proved to be most satisfactory. The departments featured were the Theological, the Literary, the Social Service, and the department for choristers and organists. ' On the evening of the first day, an elaborate pageant known as the Relief Society Review and presented under the supervision of the Salt Lake county stakes, was given. The original presentation was on March 16th by the Salt Lake county stakes, in honor of the anniversary of the Relief Society. The Review commemorates the founding of the first Salt Lake stake Relief Society, which occurred in 1877. It was repeated at the request of the General Board for the Relief Society representatives at the conference. This magnificent production was greatly appreciated; the Tabernacle was filled again as at the initial performance. An interesting feature of the conference was the display, at Relief Society headquarters, of work done at the Work and Business Meetings of the Salt Lake county stakes and arranged by the officers of these stakes. There was almost every kind of article one could think of, from ordinary made-over clothing and other practical pieces, to the most exquisite art creations. The conference was well attended by enthusiastic workers from 98 out of the 99 stakes, from the European mission and from six of the missions in the United States. Official roll call at the General Officers' meeting showed the following representation RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE : General Board members, 20; stake and mission officers, 581, including 76 stake presidents, 109 counselors, 52 secretary-treasurers, 24 choristers, 19 organists, 295 other ward members, 6 mission presidents; total, 601. In addition to the stake and mission officers a large number of ward officers attended the department meetings and general sessions. The registration in the departments was as follows: Theological and Literary department, 600; Social Service department, 550; Choristers and Organists department, 176; total, 1326. The General Session filled the Assembly Hall to capacity, the number reaching 2400 at the afternoon session. Mrs. Lizzie Thomas Edward, Chorister, and Miss Edna Coray, Organist, were in charge of the music, and no pains were spared by these leaders to make it a real feature. The Grant stake furnished the ushers for all the meetings, and the promptne's with which the large audiences were seated was a tribute to their efficiency. Officers' Meeting (Morning Session) Counselor Jennie B. Knight I trust that the beautiful prayer that has been offered in our behalf will be answered this day, and I see no reason why it should not be answered. I pray that the Lord will bless me with His holy spirit that the things I have to do may be done acceptably to Him; and then, if they are acceptable to Him, I am sure they will be acceptable to you and to all with whom I have the great pleasure to labor.
There is a saying that continual rest is rust, and that real life lies in love and laughter and work. All of you have had the pleasure of making preparations for your daughters to come to your homes to celebrate a Thanksgiving or a birthday or a Christmas, or a family gathering, and your hearts have throbbed with the joy of the preparation. No stone has been left unturned that those who come to your home may have continual happiness while they sojourn under your roof. Such have been the feelings, my dear sisters, of the officers in preparing for the return of their daughters to this, our Relief Society home, that you might have joy and satisfaction, that you might be built up in your hearts and in your minds and in your spirits, to carry on the work that you have to do when you return to your various localities. We have tried to make you happy, and to prepare a feast for you; and President Williams has worked earnestly that this conference might be a success. It was at her suggestion that we have department work this year; and the committees that have been appointed for the different divisions have certainly
RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE 293
not only worked but they have prayed and they have studied, that their work might be a success and that you might be partakers of it.
We are thankful to our heavenly Father that so many of you have been privileged to come here. Now, we know that owing to the great sorrow that has come to our beloved president you would scarcely expect her to participate through words in this conference; but you know that we have her love and devotion and wisdom, and we are delighted that she is here this morning. We pray that you may go home filled with the joy you have in seeing her with us today.
We want you to make yourselves at home here in this building, and feel that it is really your home, and to ask the questions that come to your mind regarding the work. We are sorry for the stakes that have been called upon to part with some of their loved ones and their presidents, and we are grateful to our heavenly Father that He has raised up women to fill the positions of those who have passed on; we bespeak for them the love and friendship of this great body of women. We trust that the new officers may feel just as much at home as those that have been here before. We want you all to know that we are anxious to do everything we can for you, not only at this conference but when we go out into the conventions to help you. Our only desire is to be of service.
We have a few suggestions which we desire to make at this time.
Class Leaders' Convention: The General Board recommends that each stake in the Church hold this year a class leaders' convention instead of a visiting teachers' convention. A class leaders' convention would include all the Relief Society stake and ward executive and special officers, also the stake and ward class leaders. Following are some suggestive topics: Morning session, "Teacher Training," "Better Methods of Teaching," "Better Teachers," "Discussion;" afternoon session, departmental work of the following groups: presidents, secretaries, choristers and organists, theology class leaders, literary class leaders, social service class leaders and work committee, the departments to be conducted under the direction of stake leaders. A most successful class leaders' convention was held in Deseret stake last year.
Sustaining Visiting Teachers: The General Board recommends that Relief Society visiting teachers be sustained at Relief Society ward conferences. They may be sustained in a group, but it is preferable that their names be read.
Receiving New Members: The General Board recommends that all new Relief Society members be voted in at a regular Relief Society meeting, preferably at the work and business meeting; also that where Relief Society women remove from one ward to another, they be received also by formal vote.
294 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
Group Conventions: It has been observed that often at the group conventions the Relief Society does not have large enough rooms for their meetings. The General Board recommends that Relief Society stake presidents consult early with the Priesthood presidents and make the best arrangements possible for rooms for the group conventions. It is also recommended, that Relief Society stake officers make it a point to invite the local priesthood to the Relief Society sessions of the group conventions, and give them special seats on the stand or at the front of the room.
Tonight we are to have an entertainment in the Tabernacle, the Relief Society Review—a magnificent pageant to be given under the supervision of the Salt Lake county stakes. A rich treat is in store for you there. A beautiful souvenir booklet, provided by the women who have arranged this Review, will be given to each of you. We wish to thank the Salt Lake county stakes, which have loyally come to our support by preparing this excellent exhibit, in reproducing, for the special benefit of this conference, this inspiring Review.
Thursday morning, at 7:30, we shall have our presidents' breakfast. The stake and mission presidents are invited to be the guests of the General Board on this occasion. A portion of the time will be devoted to a discussion of some of our problems.
Thursday will be devoted to two general sessions in the Assembly Hall.
ANNUAL REPORT
Mrs. Amy Brown Lyman, General Secretary
The annual report of the Society was read and briefly discussed by the Secretary. One of the most interesting features of the report was the increase in the average attendance from 20,661 last year to 22,590. This growth was attributed to the deeper interest which was taken this year in the excellent course of study. A gain in receipts in the various departments during the year and a growth in the various activities was shown in the report.
The present membership is 61,820 as against 61,289 last year—a gain of 531 members during the year. The membership includes 10,250 executive and special officers, 20,565 visiting teachers, and 31,005 lay members. 1,312 ward conferences were held during the year, which means that conferences were held in the great majority of the wards and branches. The visiting teachers made 686,605 visits to families, and in addition 189,302 visits were made to the sick and homebound. For charitable purposes, $100,105.39 was paid. The total assets of the Society are listed at $1,004,385.18, all funds being held locally. (For full report see May, 1928, Relief Society Magazine.)
Reorganizations were reported as follows: Idaho stake, reorganized, October 29, 1927, Mrs. Delia Lechtenberg, released;
RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE 295
Mrs. Alta Childs appointed president. Grant stake, November, 1927, Mrs. May Silver passed away, Mrs. Blanche W. Daynes appointed president. Weber stake, January, 1928, Mrs. Aggie H. Stevens, passed away; Mrs. Marianne Browning appointed president. Shelley stake, February 4, 1928, Mrs. Mary E. Freeman, released; Mrs. Cora M. Christensen appointed president. Nebo stake, March 25, 1928, Mrs. Hepsy Sperry Lewis, released; Mrs. May Harding appointed president.
DR. FRANKLIN G. EBAUGH Director, Colorado Psychopathic Hospital
I have been asked to talk on the subject of a state program for the care of the mentally defective. Being a visitor, I hope I am privileged to tell you the facts as I see them, regarding the state of Utah. I have read Dr. Wallace's report, which is very complete, and the recommendations that he has already made are certainly the only recommendations to be made.
It is surprising to me in that I am from an adjoining state, a similar state in many ways, except a poorer state regarding per capita work, a state that is slightly above the population of this state, to find that you have not an institution for mental defectives, and that you are treating your feeble-minded population by placing them in an over-crowded state hospital for the insane; likewise you are placing the feeble-minded in the state industrial home, and in various other institutions. It is also my understanding that special school work, which is far beyond the experimental stage and has proved successful during the past ten years, has just had its beginning in Utah.
This latter condition is one that is easily remedied, possibly easier in Utah than in many of the other states, because you have so many organizations actively interested in welfare work. All advancement along social and moral lines comes from the general public, and it comes from organizations of this type. You could create a public demand in a short time to remedy this condition.
Likewise, in looking up statistics, I was more than amazed to find that Utah is the last of all the states in the matter of the care of mental defectives. It is classed with two other states, Mississippi and Nevada. Each of these states, has recently passed through their state legislature, a bill authorizing an institution for the care of feeble-minded. Nevada passed this bill over the governor's veto. Surely it is possible, through public demand, to make this necessary step for Utah. I am more than amazed to find that Utah does not have a single institution for this work. I must say also that I am greatly surprised to find that the L. D. S. Hospital, the hospital which we have heard so
296 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
much about during the past four years as one of the most representative hospitals of the west, has not an out-patients' department.
As for state care of mental defectives, a very definite program has been already devised. It has proved successful for over fifteen years in the state of Massachusetts. This plan comprehends the following steps: First, identification and registration of all feeble-minded individuals throughout the entire state. For years we have been registering the acute infectious diseases, and the first step for state-wide care of mentally defective children consists of having each feeble-minded individual in every community registered, so that you know the total number of feeble-minded population. This is easily accomplished through a survey, and with a very little expense. Traveling clinics or a clinical survey would enable you, in a few months, to identify and register all the feeble-minded in your entire state.
Knowing the population and realizing the problem (I would estimate that in the state of Utah you most likely have from 3000 to 5000 feeble-minded children to take care of,) the second step would be to provide adequate instruction. You would then classify the group. The lower types, the idiots and the imbeciles, should be placed in a training school. Please call such an institution a training school, and please provide in this school all the necessary equipment for proper training. It is possible for the low types of mental defectives to be so trained that they will be able to take care of themselves in an industrial way. From the institution I am quoting, over one-third of the inmates have been discharged to help out in various factories and industrial enterprises.
After two years, a careful survey was made regarding the individuals who had been trained in this institution. It was found that 220 patients earned $222,000 per year, a little more than an average of $1000. Two cases have impressed me very much. One man, an imbecile, had a mental age of six, yet he received a prize for the best section of track, working for a railroad. He earned, on an average, $25.00 a week. Thus the returns in real dividends are not to be under-estimated in comparison with the cost of caring for these individuals. I am speaking of low-minded types of feeble-minded individuals—types for which we have thought there was little possibility of training.
Another case is that of a man who was discharged to a farmer. The farmer says that when John first came he seemed very peculiar; but as the family learned to understand him, they got along fine. The first thing that happened to John was that he left a two-horse team and wagon in the middle of the field at seven o'clock. The farmer could not locate John in the surrounding fields, nor in the barn, but he finally located him sleeping peacefully in his bed, at 7:30. John said, "I am sorry; I have been going to
RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE 297
bed for the last five years at seven o'clock." He continued automatically the habit instituted at the training school. John was a very productive worker. All but ten percent of the group discharged from this institution made a very satisfactory economic adjustment.
The third step in state-wide care of the mentally defective implies more than training schools; it implies the organization of special classes and vocational work in the public schools, and includes also supervision from the viewpoint of the community, and supervision is very much needed. I recall examining several feeble-minded boys in a clinic. The youngest had a mental age of six, but from a mechanical viewpoint he had a mental age of twelve, practically normal. (We accept twelve and fourteen as normal. The army statistics showed an average mental age of thirteen.) This lad was making no progress in school; in fact, he had spent four years in the fourth grade. After school he was working as an automobile mechanic and receiving a salary of from $15 to $18 a week for this work, an average salary for that community. After each pay-day, in fact before he had a chance even to reach his home, I found that most of this money would be taken from him through gambling games and games of chance, in which he did not have the judgment or ability to discriminate. This boy was also unable to make change. If you should give him a simple test, for instance ask him how much change he would receive from $1 after buying four dozen eggs at 20c, he would be unable to give you the change. Special supervision can do away with that sort of danger. This boy has made a very good adjustment. A social service worker followed him up and made arrangements with his employer for the money to be turned over to the family, where he played a very important role in the matter of support.
Thus far I have mentioned identification and registration of the feeble-minded, instruction of the feeble-minded, supervision of the feeble-minded that have not been institutionalized; and a very large percentage of your feeble-minded population you do not have to institutionalize. The fourth step is that of institutionalization. It is estimated that only ten percent of the feeble-minded will need to be placed in institutions, and these are the defective, delinquent class and those who have very definite traits of general delinquency. From one percent to four percent of school children are feeble-minded; but only a small majority of feeble-minded individuals have vicious habits. They do not constitute the criminal class. The feeble-minded are not necessarily delinquent, or vicious and unstable. This fact is a challenge to the community, which should develop desirable habits in the feeble-minded, instead of inactivity and idleness. There are good as well as bad defectives. De-
298 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
fectives are often productive. In fact, the economic background of this country would be retarded years, if it were not that feeble-minded people are productive. The high grade moron can do some work better than individuals with superior intelligence. For instance, the routine work of farms and factories depends almost entirely on our morons.
The personality types of feeble-minded individuals are very interesting in the majority of cases. They are industrious, if properly guided. They are naturally docile; but certain groups are sullen and cruel. In general, they have the desire to be respectable, a desire that can be encouraged by community organization. In Syracuse, New York, a series of apartment houses have been turned over entirely (including the management of and collecting of rent) to a group of feeble-minded boys and girls who have been discharged from the state institutions. They are not only maintaining themselves but are earning considerable money.
You need a fairly definite state program, if you would expand out of that your initial organization. If you cannot attempt a complete program, I would not advise any half-way measure. You need a state institution for the feeble-minded population, and it is amazing that a state of this type does not have one. Because you can profit by their mistakes, you have a better opportunity, I think, than any other western state to put forth a real community and state-wide organization for the care of the mentally deficient—a program that should be better than those that have been established in older and better organized eastern communities.
In conclusion I would urge you not to neglect your country population. The most pleasant contacts that we have had at the Colorado Hospital have been those that we have in our clinics, from 115 to 120 country communities. If Utah develops a state-wide program and a central administration as advised by Dr. Wallace, I feel sure that in a few years, instead of being the last, that you will be among the foremost in caring for defectives.
The Relief Society has great possibilities in fostering and assisting in the work, and you can organize and socialize more and more the work that this society has already begun as a relief organization. I am more than surprised at the representation here. I do not know of any similar representation in the state of Colorado in any contacts that I have had. If you create a demand, you need not worry about any legislature or any political or other phase of the work. It is the community's responsibility; and if you work from that standpoint, there is no doubt but that means will be readily and easily found for you to complete the organization.
RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE 299
BETTER FILMS
Mrs. Julia A. Child, Member of General Board
The moving picture came so recently and has developed so rapidly, being such a force in the entertainment and education of people, that we have not been able to adjust ourselves to it. Twenty years ago if anybody had said that from six to ten millions of people would attend the moving picture shows daily in the United States, we would have been skeptical. Today, however, for good or for ill, we must accept it as a fact. People are being fed on the pictures, some are good and some bad, furnished to show houses all over the land. To eliminate, as far as possible, the evil, and encourage the good, through this new but influential avenue of entertainment and education, it is necessary for us to analyze carefully the whole situation and act cooperatively. We should guide this new power, to make it improvement and uplift as well as entertainment.
It is recognized by psychologists everywhere that a very large percentage of all the learning we gain comes through the eye. The eye is often called the intellectual sight. It is important, therefore, in the interest of mental and moral life, that the environment provided be only that which is beautiful and good to see. We hear educators say that children and people become like that which they see often, and enjoy. He who sees and loves the great outdoors is at heart a naturalist; and he who sees and loves art is already an artist in his heart. The continued seeing of nature and the beauty of form and color have made them which they are. Seeing well dressed, fine, clear-eyed people exercises a wonderful influence. That which comes through the ear has great influence also, especially an influence on the mind; but without the eye, in a large way, hearing lacks the appeal to the judgment which is the crowning glory of man.
Pictures, which reach the mind through the eye, have a potent influence either for good or for ill; either they lead to a higher realm of spiritual life, or else they lead downward to sin. Fraught with great possibilities for good, educational work and higher forms of entertainment may be portrayed by them. Commercial agencies have monopolized this great means of entertainment by appealing to the lower emotions, and the pictures have often been so vile and full of suggestion that seeing them can have no other than detrimental effects on the individual and on the social welfare.
Joseph B. Tigert, U. S. Commissioner of Education, has said that motion pictures exert a greater influence upon the youth of the nation than does the public school. Our laws require a high standard of qualification and fitness for our teachers, yet we have no adequate regulation for this great industry, which influ-
300 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
ences the child's mind to a greater degree than do the public schools. Can we, as mothers, afford to ignore the character and effect of such a force in the education of our children? What is to be our attitude toward it? Are we to help shape and develop, or are we to ignore it?
I think we all agree that there is a place for the "movies" and a function for them to fulfill. The point that we are concerned about is what they are, what they can do, and what they are doing to our developing young people. What standards are our children learning from them? Are they getting cheap and vulgar ideas of the fine relationships of life, or are they learning to admire and understand them? Are they learning what courage, honor, and faith really are, or are they getting cheap substitutes?
There are many splendid pictures. Lists of these are published in magazines. Published in Indianapolis, is The National Indorsers of Photoplays, a little paper put out monthly by a group of picture-loving people. Any group can have this little paper simply by writing to the publishers in Indianapolis. Its paper carries every month select articles about moving pictures; also a list of pictures suitable for children's matinees, others suitable for older people. The Child's Welfare Magazine, the official magazine of the National Congress of Parents and Teachers, sometimes carries lists of undesirable pictures. Another magazine is Children. This is a parents' magazine. It carries a list with comments, every month, about good and bad pictures.
Unfortunately our Church committee, under the direction of the Mutual Improvement Associations, is not now able to approve pictures as they have done before. Our State university had, until last year, a visual education department; and our committee, composed of members of the M. I. A. were permitted to go up and censor pictures. They published a list of good pictures in the Young Woman's Journal last year, of pictures released within the last three years. This department is now closed and there is no place where this committee can preview pictures. It costs from $8 to $10 to preview a picture.
The next problem is how to get the community to take advantage of these worth-while pictures after we have found out what they are. The real test of public interest lies in the support given the picture. It has been suggested that in each community a group of women, representing the various organizations, visit the first-run of a picture, and report their impressions as quickly as possible, either for or against, to their organizations, and have courage to report against a picture, if it is not good. Members of the organizations should be notified as quickly as possible, either by telephone or other means, and should be encouraged to attend the good pictures. The Federation of Women's Clubs in California have sponsored what they call attendance parties.
RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE 301
Large groups of women, sometimes a thousand at once, will attend some particularly good picture, to show to the producers that they appreciate good pictures. In another state, where a very active group of women have been at work for years, definite steps are being taken to give publicity to special pictures. For instance, when the "King of Kings" was presented recently, the Parent-Teachers' Association notified every member that this picture was going to be shown; every Sunday School teacher was notified and asked to tell the members of her class about it. This committee has gone farther, and pledged themselves that when a really good picture is upon the screen, they will end every telephone conversation by commenting on this good picture, and in that way get people anxious to see it.
The editor of the largest film trade journal in the country says this: "Motion pictures especially printed for children are put on successfully in a great many places in the country. The theater manager in practically every instance is anxious to put on such a program, and needs only the encouragement and cooperation that may be properly rendered by women's organizations." This puts it rather up to us to see that our children get the best, does it not?
Better films will win out only when thinking people work concertedly together for their final victory over the vulgar, trashy and bad. In your own community you can start a movement for better films. There should be general protest against unwholesome pictures and praise, commendation and encouragement for the better kind.
MRS. KATHERINE R. STEWART President, Hollywood Stake Relief Society
My dear sisters, it is a great honor to have this opportunity of making a brief report of one of the activities carried on in the original Los Angeles stake, which of course included the two present stakes. At the time the stake was organized in Los Angeles, the Church up to that time had had no affiliation with outside organizations, and we knew that we could not progress in this great Relief Society work alone, that we had to cooperate with others. So, with the consent of the stake presidency, we began to cooperate with various social welfare agencies.
A Child Guidance Clinic was to be organized and social welfare organizations and relief agencies were asked to join them. We decided to join; each ward gave $5, and the stake made up the rest for our stake membership. A number of our women also took out individual memberships. Dr. Miriam VanWaters, who is one of the judges of the Juvenile Court and vice-president of the state Welfare Organization of California, was vice-president of this Child Guidance Clinic, as well as President of the Girls' Business
302 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
Home. She met and welcomed us most heartily, inviting us to join the state organization also, which we did. We were invited to visit the Girls' Home, where we found them trying to furnish it; so we bought a living-room set consisting of a davenport, table, chairs and piano lamp, and sent it to the home. In response to this gift we received a courteous and appreciative letter, thanking us heartily.
We have also assisted the Children's Hospital, an institution used by a number of our needy people. It had taken good care of our children and had not charged anything where families were needy, and only a nominal sum where families could afford to pay something. Each ward made articles for the hospital; in all we presented 214 pieces. They also were most appreciated.
Since we joined the state social welfare organization, we have sent delegates to all the conventions. They have been held in Pasadena, Long Beach, Los Angeles, and the last one in Sacramento. At this convention we were invited to make an exhibit of our work. They had saved a booth for us; and we took special pains to have each ward make some of the best articles they could to decorate the booth. We displayed layettes and the maternity bundles. We had special banners and distributed a pamphlet outlining our work and reporting the things that the L. D. S. Women, through the Relief Society, had done during the war.
We hold one social welfare convention each year, when we have the finest speakers in Los Angeles, both within and without the Church, and they are all delighted with our work. Following are some of the topics we have discussed: Cooperation of Home and School in Crime Prevention; How to Cooperate with the County Charities; Explanation of the Community Chest; Objects of Los Angeles Stake Relief Society Social Service Work.
MARY A. CLARK President, Maricopa Stake Relief Society
I truly feel honored in occupying a few moments of your valuable time. The conference committee asked that we speak of some outstanding thing that our Relief Society had been doing. What the women of Arizona have done for the Arizona temple may be interesting to you.
When we knew for a fact that we were to have a temple in our land, and that our dreams were to be realized, the Maricopa stake Relief Society was asked to contribute $1,000 toward the building. We immediately went to work and by bazaars, our penny fund, concessions at fair, cooked food sales, cotton picking, and, in fact, by everything that was hard (although we received great joy from our labor), we raised $1,450. Of this we turned over $500 to the building committee. We purchased
RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE 303
an electric sewing machine and the best washable material we could buy, and made three complete changes of veil and washroom curtains throughout the temple. We made sample temple suits and baptismal suits, then sent to each stake in the temple district, asking them to make ten complete suits of each, which they did, with the exception of Mexico, which sent us the money to make six suits. Every stake responded loyally and expressed willingness to do more. Maricopa made twenty-six complete suits.
We bought material for towels and baptismal suits and asked the Y. L. M. I. A. to make forty of these suits and all the towels. The Y. L. M. I. A. presented a beautiful bridal airline robe for the temple. This we call our bridal costume and it is worn by our brides. The Primary Association made forty baptismal suits. They also made, for the nursery, two beautiful quilts from the pieces left from these suits. We equipped the nursery with beds and chairs.
We bought the best material for table runners, altar covers, chair backs, and pulpit covers, and allotted it to each ward, asking them to do their own designing and to use their best workmanship. When it was all returned to the temple, we had 144 pieces in all, and we were very proud of this work—embroidery and cut work, and yards of beautiful tatting. It is estimated that 1879 hours were spent in this work. One sister told me that she had spent three hours a day for seven weeks on the piece that was allotted to her. The stake board spent weeks in sewing. They would take luncheon and spend the entire day sewing at the temple.
About two months ago the stake board prepared and served a banquet to sixty-five of the temple workers. We have been very happy and proud in doing our bit to help make it possible to have a temple in the great southland, where many thousands of the Latter-day Saints, who never had a chance to do their own work or work for their kindred dead, will now have the privilege of doing so; and it means much to our noble pioneers who have spent their days making the desert blossom as the rose, that they can now spend the evening of their lives working in the temple of their God.
In the four months since its dedication, 13,000 baptisms, 7,000 endowments, and 26,000 ordinances have been performed.
Another part of our work was demonstrated a few weeks ago when a little colony of fifty-five of our people came from Oklahoma to find employment in the cotton fields of our valley. Very soon their provisions were diminished and they were destitute. You could not conceive of greater destitution and want. The Relief Society president of the ward they resided in felt that this was a problem almost beyond her, so we asked each ward president to assist. They gathered up dishes, clothing and bedding, food, money, and everything necessary. When all collected, it
304 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
was given out to these people, making it possible for them to go to Sunday School and to other meetings. May our Father in heaven guide us always in giving the right help.
From the reports received from the General Board, the average attendance on department work is not quite 50%. But their attendance was better than that reported from the Stake board. We are interested in getting room for department work; but not 50% have room for department work. We think this is excellent. There were two or three stakes (and I think the report was quite pathetic) that had plenty of room, but did not have time because they had to meet up with our Priesthood and see if some other condition could not exist, because without department work, you students are handicapped in getting people to donate more money than they are able to contribute.
One of the stakes which I visited had a very intelligent Stake board, who explained to me that one of the Ward Presidents, who made a small contribution, had to work with the Priesthood. However, we are wondering if we could not take
RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE 305
this up with our Priesthood officials, because when I became a member of the stake board, that contributions were necessary. For years we have been asking that the officers of every stake and ward read the instructions in the record books. The stakes often write for information that is found in the records. Out of the number of questionnaires that we looked over, forty of the stakes read these instructions; the others did not. Not quite half of the stakes bind their Magazines. Very few stakes report that all the Relief Society people pay their own annual dues. In many instances, the wards or stake have to supplement the dues. Five stakes reported 100% of their membership as paying annual dues; and over 30, that more than 80% paid their annual dues.
I visited one stake last fall that I thought had a beautiful idea. In one ward of that stake there were a number of dear old ladies who had helped carry the load of the Relief Society, but now, because of financial conditions, they could not very well pay their dues. So the ward president, each year, writes a dear little note on the birthday of each of these sisters, telling her how happy the women are that she is one of the members of the Relief Society, and how they appreciate her efforts, and adding that for a birthday present they would like to have her accept her membership due in the Relief Society. This note is sometimes accompanied with a flower or other token.
Women who have been in the Relief Society a long time know that the interest on the wheat fund is a sacred trust and should be used only for specific purposes. There are 46 stakes out of the 65 which used their wheat fund interest religiously for health purposes. There was a pathetic thing—two or three reported that all of the wheat fund was lost. I am sure these sisters would have given it for health if they had had it. But some stakes have used wheat interest just as they saw fit.
Officers' Meeting (Afternoon Sessions) Theological and Literary Departments Salt Lake Assembly Hall
Counselor Louise Y. Robison, presiding Theological Section, Mrs. Lotta Paul Baxter, member General Board, Conducting
President Nephi L. Morris addressed the Theological section on the subject, "What is the Value of Theological Study to Women?" This was followed by brief discussions by Mrs. Lizzie B. Owen, president of Cache stake, on "Has Your Faith Been Strengthened by Studies in Theology?" and by Mrs. Bessie G.
306 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
Ballard, president of Logan stake, on "Have the Theological Lessons Increased Your Desire to Read the Scriptures?"
Mrs. Owen testified as follows:
My faith has been greatly increased through a study of the theology lessons, which have taught that throughout all the dispensations God has spoken to his people through his prophets, and that the measure in which they have prospered or suffered has been in proportion to their obedience to his commandments. In reading of God's dealings with his saints who lived anciently, we find that he was always kind and merciful, loving and forgiving, and that he labored with them at all times to live righteous lives; that in all dispensations he had prophets to lead and guide his people, and that the blessings we enjoy today are measured by our knowledge of our heavenly Father and his laws and our obedience to them.
It has increased my faith to know that the prophets who lived in ancient times saw in vision the restoration of the Gospel in this dispensation, that their prophecies concerning it and the coming forth of the Book of Mormon were recorded in ancient times, and that I have been privileged to live and see the fulfilment of these prophecies. It has strengthened my faith to become acquainted with the ancient prophets, and to know that at all times the leaders of God's people were filled with courage, integrity, and faithfulness. It has increased my faith to learn of the wonderful women who lived in ancient times and the important part they played in the great drama of life; to learn of Christ, our Master, to know that his teachings have been preserved for us, and that we can apply them just as well today as they were applied anciently; to know that the same organizations that existed in the primitive church and the same gifts and blessings enjoyed anciently, have again been restored to the earth.
It has increased my faith to know of the courage, integrity, and faithfulness of our Prophet Joseph Smith, and to know that he sealed his testimony with his blood as did prophets in ancient times. The greater our knowledge of our heavenly Father and his will concerning us, the greater will be our service to God and our fellow-men. Christ said: "He that would be greatest among you, let him be the servant of all."
Mrs. Ballard said:
It is my observation that the lessons on theology have stimulated in a very marked degree the study and individual research of the scriptures. The test questions of the lessons serve as a challenge to our knowledge of the subject, to the end that greater efforts are put forth in preparation work and thereby greater knowledge is attained. We have truly come to feel that the scriptures are as a "lamp to our feet," that they should occupy some time each day, for they will give such growth and uplift as will not be found elsewhere. The Apostle Paul said to the Romans, "For whatsoever things
RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE 307
were written aforetime were written for our learning, that we through patience and comfort of the scriptures might have hope." Christ, the great teacher, said, "Search the scriptures, for in them ye think ye have eternal life, and they are they which testify of me."
Intelligent reading of the scriptures gives a breadth of vision, a fineness of perception, a culture, a moral strength, a spiritual outlook, that are beyond price. If in every home a heartfelt reading of the scriptures were a daily practice, the family would be drawn together in unison and love, and there would be a spiritual atmosphere created that would beneficially affect the entire life of each member. Our theology lessons have unfolded to us to a very marked degree God's love and his great concern for us his children, and have given us a greater insight into his plans for the exaltation of man.
President Nephi L. Morris's address will appear in a later issue.
Literary Section Miss Alice L. Reynolds, member of General Board, conducting
WHAT IS LITERATURE?
Julia A. Lund, member of General Board
A nation's literature is the outcome of its whole life. Its growth, in kind and degree, depends upon four main agencies: First, Race, or hereditary dispositions; Second, Environment—physical and social conditions; Third, Epoch or Spirit of the age; and Fourth, perhaps the most important, Person, or reactionary or expressive force.
The greatest glory of the English-speaking race is the magnificent stream of literature from Beowulf to Thomas Hardy. Of all the privileges we enjoy in this world of opportunity today there is none, perhaps, for which we ought to be more thankful than for the very easy access we have to books. It is just as true now, as the Bishop of Durham said in 1344, that "The library of wisdom is more precious than all riches, and nothing that can be wished for is worthy to be compared to it." This is a very busy world in which we live today. The demands upon our time are so great that if we would reap the richest harvest from our efforts in this vast field of learning, we must use great care in our choice of study. This has been the great object in our literary lessons— to suggest to our sisters what books to read and how to read them. This is the aim of all students of Literature; and what is Literature? We find it difficult to define; for literature is like happiness, or love, or life itself, in that it can be understood or appreciated, but never be exactly described. If one must formulate a definition, literature 308 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE is the written record of man's best thought and feeling. In its broadest sense it includes all writing; but as we commonly define the term now, it excludes the works which aim at instruction, such as books on science, history, or philosophy. Their field is knowledge and power—they appeal to the intellect. Literature, as we understand the term, means that large class of writing consisting of poems, plays, essays, stories of every kind, to which we go for happiness or counsel, for noble thoughts or fine feelings, for rest of body or exercise of spirit. They appeal chiefly to our imagination and our emotions; they awaken in us a feeling of sympathy or admiration for whatever is beautiful in nature or society or the soul of man. True literature is divided into two great classes—Poetry and Prose. Of the two, poetry was the first to be developed. The greatest names in the literature of the world are those of the poets. This may seem strange to us of the twentieth century, who have seen in our own day the great popularity of prose literature, as is shown by the flood of novels, short stories, prose plays, essays, magazine articles and other forms of prose that have streamed forth from the printing press of all lands. Important as these are, we shall have to admit that no prose writers have ever equaled David, Homer, Virgil, Dante, Shakespeare or Milton. We have said that literature depends upon four factors— race, environment, age, and author. It is through the last—the author—that we understand the other three. If we wish to know a people fully, we shall find the historical account alone inadequate for our purpose. History tells us what man has done; Literature tells us how he has felt in doing it. History will show us what place a people has won among the nations and what part they have played in the progress of the world, but regarding their innermost thoughts and feelings, their real life, it will have little to say. This information can be obtained only from the literature which they themselves have brought forth. The historical records, valuable as they are, will often be misleading if we do not see the other side of the shield—if we do not understand the thoughts and emotions that lie back of the deeds. Literature is the treasure-house of ideals. One who is not guided by ideals is worthless, even dangerous, to society. Literature not only stores up the noblest ideals that the world has known, but it inspires and fosters these in others. Therefore, since literature reveals the deepest thoughts and feelings of the human race, cherishes the ideals that lie at the basis of all that we hold to be most precious in our world today, and helps us to understand more fully this complex life that we have to live, it is one of the most valuable and really practical subjects that we can pursue. One ancient writer said that without literature the world would be a body without a soul. "In books we have the choicest thoughts of the ablest men, in their RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE 309 best dress." Literature, in a word, teaches us to live creatively and to search for the sources of spiritual power. PRESENTATION OF TWO CANADIAN AUTHORS Miss Alice L. Reynolds, Member of General Board I am to follow with a word or two on the two Canadian poets we are to take up in the course. Last spring there was a convention of Western poets held in the city of Seattle,—a rather new venture, I take it, from some reports. The honored guest of that convention was the veteran poet, Charles G. D. Roberts, of Canada, a man who has almost a strategic position in the poetry and literature of Canada. You know, a nation may muddle along for years with something that looks like poetry but that is really not poetry. Then, if there arrives one who possesses something of the mastery of technique, there is hope that a literature may be born. Charles G. D. Roberts did just that thing, which was his first contribution to Canadian literature. He proved to the nation of which he forms a part that he had mastered the technique of poetry and could be a finished versifier when he chose to be. Now to him there came a great occasion. Sixty years ago the different provinces of Canada became united under one head. The Articles of Confederation made of that country a dominion, and we have ever since spoken of that land as the Dominion of Canada. Last year all over the Dominion they were having wonderful celebrations in all the provinces because of the joy they felt that a union had been effected. Now at this moment Mr. Roberts got the inspiration of the hour and wrote these lines: O Child of Nations, giant-limbed, Who stand'st among the nations now Unheeded, unadorned, unhymned, With 'unanointed brow,— How long the ignoble sloth, how long The trust in greatness not thine own? Surely the lion's brood is strong To front the world alone! Clearly a clarion call for Canada to throw off the servitude, in a sense, that she had retained toward the mother country, to come out in the light and show that within her own dominion was plenty of material for a worthy literature. That is the second contribution—the contribution of patriotism, that should be played up in any lesson on Roberts. Then he roused a whole group of other poets to write, and because of that inspiration, Canada had a Renaissance of literature. That is the third point. And the fourth point is that this man was a great revelator of the beauties 310 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE of nature. J. D. Logan says of him: "No other writer known to me has more intimately associated his mind and spirit with every object and phase of nature. His poetic descriptions are vividly real, and exquisite in beauty of expression, whilst his animal stories in felicitous literary English, in accuracy of particulars, in intensity of dramatic interest, are beyond criticism." I must pass to the other Canadian author, and I am sure you will all feel sorry that we have not time to give more attention to our poets from the great northern land. Once France had a painter. He could see the beauty of simple, humble life, and he began to paint French peasants. He painted "The Angelus;" "The Gleaners;" “The Reapers;" and the whole world opened its eyes and recognized in these marvelous paintings undying masterpieces. In Canada on the east they had a poet, William Henry Drummond, who became acquainted with the people of the prairies near Montreal, a people who when they spoke sometimes used English words, sometimes French words; but he recognized in their life rare beauties, and he has given us some simple but undying masterpieces that are exquisite and beautiful and perfect, just as Millet's paintings are exquisite and beautiful and perfect. If I were talking to you of Millet this afternoon, I should think it my duty to have the pictures of Millet here that you might see them, so I have conceived it my duty to present some one to you who can read the poems of William Henry Drummond; and I take very great pleasure in introducing Mrs. Helen Henderson Pratt, who reads Drummond's poems in an effective and telling manner. Mrs. Helen Henderson Pratt Read 'The Habitant,' 'De Nice Leetle Canadienne," and "Little Bateese."' After the reading Mr. Hyrum J. Christianson sang "Little Bateese,'' accompanied by Eva J. Olson. A GROUP OF ORIGINAL POEMS Mrs. Elsie C. Carroll My dear sisters: I feel very highly honored in having the privilege of appearing on this wonderful program to which we have listened this afternoon. I want you to know that I also feel very humble in trying to give anything of my own to you. When I look into your faces and realize who you are and what your experiences and your lives have been, when I think of the things for which you stand and of the work you are doing, I certainly feel humble in presuming that anything I may offer will be of value to you. I also know enough about literature and, I believe, have a keen enough appreciation of it, to know  RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE 311 that my small efforts can not be classed as literature, and yet I have enjoyed very much the efforts that I have made in this The first lines that I shall read were written about fifteen years ago when my children were very small and when it seemed to me that all my time was taken up in washing dirty little hands and faces and mending little stockings and feeding little stomachs, —when it seemed that the drudgery, or what seemed the drudgery, of homemaking and mothering, took al] my time; and sometimes if I had time. Then, one day, my own dear mother, who had So cheerfully, happily, and sacrificingly given the toil and love and sacrifices of 4 lifetime in bearing and rearing a family of twelve children—said something to me that made the scales fal| from my eyes and helped me to realize that I had a privilege in mothering my children, in doing something more truly great than any other thing I might attempt to do, if I did it right. And she helped me to realize, if I put Something into that never. Ending task of washing and mending and cooking and attending to the various needs of my children, that [ was really creating to express in the following lines which I have called "My Masterpiece” "MASTERPIECE By Elsie C. Carroll Oft to my soul there come stealing, Sweet visions of consummate art: Statue, a picture, a poem, And there awakes in my heart A longing to carve the fair image, To color the picture sublime, To sing for the world the sweet poem: O create a great masterpiece—mine  But e'en as I reach for my chisel fr Canvass and brush, or my pen, And open the door to fancy, I'm brought to the present again. An echoing laugh may recall me: A shrill cry of pain or of fear; A small grimy hand on my elbow; A sweet whispered word in my ear, And away go my visions a-winging Back to the fount whence they came; 312 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Before me untouched is my marble, My canvas is white, my song but a name; I turn to the needs of my babies And gazing into their dear eyes, I thrill with the sense of contentment— In their future my masterpiece lies. The great poet Shakespeare has told us that "sweet are the uses of adversity."" Perhaps when adversities are freshly upon us it is very difficult for us to realize the truth that anything of sweetness will come out of them; but later we can look back and understand that out of our sufferings, blessings have truly come; and so out of a great personal loss that came to change my life, I can now perceive, as a sweetness out of that suffering, an appreciation of friends and friendship that I had never known before. FRIENDSHIP By Elsie C. Carroll I did not know what friendship meant Till trouble came to me; I did not know the many ways That friends could friendly be. I did not know how many hands Would help me bear my cross; I did not know how many hearts Would sorrow at my loss. I did not know the blessedness Of just a word; a tear; The pressure of a hand; a sigh; The silent standing near And breathing just a little prayer That shines from out the eyes; Of just a written line of hope;— All these I've learned to prize. And I have learned the world can't be As empty as it seems, When all one's love and joy are dead. The light of friendship gleams. And like a little torch it sheds A halo in the dark— A radiance that warms and spreads Until it strikes a spark, RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE 313 Within the soul made desolate, On humble knees I bend And pray that I may learn to be n times of need—a friend! A GROUP OF ORIGINAL POEMS By Mrs. Claire Stewart Boyer poem of humanity; and God is the author, Religion, then, is Poetry, and Poetry is religion. At times we are all poets, for poets are merely people who see a little deeper significance in the every-day things of life, and have a keener sense of the relation of these ideals to the scheme of things entire. You have all experienced moments, perhaps wrapped up in joy or sorrow or disappointment, wherein you have had a spiritual influence ; and that is just akin to the feeling that a person has who receives an inspiration to write a poem. The  successful poet, of course, is a person who can take that little incident in life, interpret it in his own way, and put it in beautiful language ; in other words, he catches a grain of truth, wraps it in a robe of beauty and gives it to the world ; but he does not sit down and say, "Today I must give the world my little truth," as a Boy Scout says "Today I must do a daily good turn." He begins with an impression resulting from an experience which he has had recently or years ago; he begins to write ; and, as all things seek the ultimate reason for their being, his poem seeks truths as the river seeks the sea ; and a great many poets have told us that they are just as much surprised as their readers at the poem when it is finished. A poet has said that every man would speak if he had been well nurtured in his mother tongue, so that the only difference between the most of us and the rest of us is perhaps that some have been a little better 314 | RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE nurtured in their mother tongue and can express the feelings that all the rest of us have. To have great poets, we must have great audiences. Until you people who are enjoying poetry recognize a poet, he is not a poet. Until you appreciate a poem, that poem is not a poem. And so, of course, people who are writing are at the mercy of the readers, because a poet never knows how his poems will be received by the audience. I thought, at least as long as I am not a recognized poet, I would read the poems that have been recognized; but I thought that would be rather cowardly, so I will read one old one and a couple I have written recently. Perhaps the most interesting thing about a song is the little story that tells how the author came to write it, and so it is with a poem. When my little son was four years old, a friend was visiting me and said, "You have written scores of poems about that boy, haven't you?" I said, "No, I haven't written one." She said, "How terrible to have a child as darling as that and not to have written a poem about him." I said, "I have hardly felt capable of putting him into verse." But it was not very long before I realized I could put my son into verse. The poem is called "Child": CHILD (To David) Dreamer, Questioner, Teller of tales, You stand before me and I see Great visions in your eyes, Visions unknown but wise— You know Eternity. But Life as yet is just a parable To ponder on; Revealing year by year Man's blundering apprenticeship to God: And you, a stranger in a foreign land, As yet can't understand. But you can take the bits of wonderment Fast slipping from your once-celestial hold, And blending them with Earth's-most transient lights Great tales unfold; Tales that make wise men gape, And rich men stare, And both turn to the cross again In prayer. RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE  The other day a friend who is housebound called me and said, "I am terribly upset today; some one just called me up and scolded me for half an hour. It isn't scolding I need. I know I am a little discontented with my lot, although I have my radio, and everything, but what I miss is a little bit of living life.' That was the best way she could express it, and it meant a great deal— a little bit of living life. After I had hung up I thought that is what we are all craving—a little bit of life just as God gave it, without being adulterated by man's hand, without being made too scientific or too perfect, and I wrote this poem called "Housebound." HOUSEBOUND Bring me a bowl of heaven's blue, And dash my days with gold; I need the elixir of Spring, My heart is growing old; Bring me a youth and a maid in love, Their lips new-pledged with vows; Bring me a laughing, unkempt boy, Tumbled from apple boughs; You send me books and music discs All technically right, I want a bit of artless love To glorify my sight; I want impulsive laughter, (Quite forgetting I am old); I want my soul wrapped up in blue And crowned with heaven's gold. Because we all love children's poems, I am going to read this one. Not so very long ago I caught myself singing on a rainy day —something that never happened before in my life, because rain has always depressed me. As I turned from my dishwashing, I saw my little boy on the floor looking at me with a queer expression on his face. I thought, "Why shouldn't I sing? I have had a wonderful past and a future that is bright. I do not know why the rain should affect me that way." I stopped washing dishes and wrote this poem called "Rainbows": RAINBOWS All day mother sang at her housework, while I Was terribly cross at my play: I couldn't go out, and my games wouldn't fix, And it just kept on raining all day. 316 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE I wondered how mother could sing while the rain Was spoiling the blue in the sky, And splashing the window panes recently cleaned, I couldn't help wondering why. So I asked mother dear why she sang at her work, And she answered me laughing, "You know, If I lined up the thoughts I've been thinking about, They'd look like a pretty rainbow;
"For I've two pots of gold called the future and past, And they're chuck full of dreams bright and gay, So from them I build me a rainbow bridge To brighten the rainiest day."
I didn't quite understand how it could be, But mother makes wonderful things; And now I have rainbows inside of me, too, Whenever it rains and she sings.
Social Service Department (Bishop's Building) Counselor Jennie B. Knight, Presiding Mrs. Amy W. Evans, Member of the General Board, Conducting
The time in this department was divided equally between a lesson demonstration on the Social Service lesson for the month of May, by Mrs. Inez Knight Allen, member of the General Board; and a demonstration on the Diagnosis and Treatment of a Family Situation, by Mrs. Annie D. Palmer, member of the staff of the Relief Society Welfare Department.
The subject of Mrs. Allen's lesson was "The Child's Moral Development." In connection with the lesson she presented an excellent outline, which she followed and which is here reproduced. This outline may be applied to any lesson in any of the departments:
Preparation of Lesson
"Do not attempt to teach anything without the Spirit of the Lord."—Karl G. Maeser.
1. Define Subject.
2. Collect Material: Reflect on own information and experience. Read other ideas from up-to-date books. Converse on subject matter.
RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE 317
Observe conduct of others. Summarize. 3. Arrange Material: Select vital points. Choose some illuminating material. Organize into major and sub-divisions. 4. Determine Objective: What—Information. Why—Application to life situations. 5. Study Listeners: Environment. Needs. Past experience. Ability to use—apply. 6. Present Lesson: Interest. Instruct. Inspire. 7. Summarize or Conclude: 8. Assign New Lesson: General. Committee. Individual.
Mrs. Palmer in her demonstration on the "Diagnosis and Treatment of a Family Situation" gave a comprehensive case-study of an Unstable Family, in which there was a man forty-four years old, a woman thirty-nine, and nine children. Ranging in age from four to twenty years. The problems in this family, in the five year period, were lack of income, unemployment, sickness, dishonesty, truancy, divorce, immorality, and prostitution. After a thorough discussion of the diagnosis and the treatment, which included plans, budgets, etc., Mrs. Palmer said in conclusion:
In the brief time allotted for this discussion it is possible only to glimpse the spot lights. During the entire time covered, from May, 1923, until now, there has not been a month when this family was not contacted. The economic problem has been constant. The office has been called for rents, food, and coal; for furniture and light bills; for false teeth and hand lotions. We have carried their plans and problems, as they moved about the city, to a half dozen bishops and as many ward Relief Society presidents, sometimes pleading for more help and sometimes urging greater restraint. We have been called to task when we seemed to request grocery orders too big or too frequent; and we
318 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
have been granted a month's rent gladly when the troublesome C.'s were moving to another ward. Through it all we have worked, patiently and sympathetically, realizing our family's handicaps and trying to understand their weakness. In forwarding the interests of this one family, careful cooperation and help have been received from bishops and Relief Society workers, from the County Dept. of Health and Charities, from Juvenile Court and probation officers, from the City Board of Health, the Community Clinic, schools, employers, private physicians, psychiatrists, psychologists, and many other consultants. The end is not yet. But the health of the family is much improved, the home keeping is better, the behavior of some of the children is improved, and some are doing fairly well in school.
Choristers and Organists' Department (McCune School of Music) Mrs. Ida P. Beal, Member of General Board, Presiding and Conducting
Mrs. Beal extended a welcome and called the attention of the delegates to the fact that they have a special work to do. She felt that the success of any meeting depends in a large measure upon the musical program and that it is therefore important for choristers and organists to take their work seriously.
THE PROBLEM OF THE CHORISTER
Mrs. Lissie Thomas Edward, Relief Society Chorister
The first problem we have is the attendance. I think you will all bear me out that this is a very, very big problem in a choir. The choristers have no doubt observed a great lack of attendance, not from lack of interest on the part of the members, but because of other duties. For example, in our Relief Society choir, a number of our members are serving in various capacities—as ward presidents, block teachers, as officers in the Religion Class or Primary, besides being active members of the tabernacle choir. So they cannot possibly be very active in our choir. We had a membership of 110 when we started, but we now have an average attendance of about 60 or 80, and that, I think, is due to the reasons I have stated.
The second problem is the lack of being able to read music. We have experienced great difficulty in making the progress we desire in choir work through the inability of the members to read music, only a few being competent to assume the second soprano or the middle trio staff. They all want to sing the high part or the low, and you can readily understand that it is impossible to have a trio arrangement when we leave out the second soprano. That is a big problem. The sisters
RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE 319
seem to get offended if we ask them to sing second soprano. You older sisters can sing the second part better than the higher part, unless you have been soloists. If one does not know much about music, one ought to sing second soprano—it is much easier on the voice—but she must know something about sight-reading.
One of the greatest surprises that has come to us in the organists' department is the knowledge that choristers cannot always depend upon their organist as they should be able to do. This problem is utterly foreign to us as a choir, since we have the utmost loyalty shown us by our capable organist and her efficient assistant. No chorister can succeed without the fullest cooperation of an efficient organist. The organist ought always to be there; and if she cannot, she should have a capable assistant.
I have been asked to make reference to the ten-minute practice assumed by some of the wards to improve their knowledge of the L. D. S. Hymns. This is a splendid idea and a step in the right direction. However, it would be much better if the time could be extended to fifteen minutes.
THE PROBLEM OF THE ORGANIST
Miss Edna Coray, Relief Society Organist
In considering the problems of a Church organist, I begin with the organ. This is her tool, and its condition, however well equipped she is with musical talent and training, largely governs the quality of her work. As she is expected to give her best to her part of the service, she deserves an instrument without tonal or mechanical defects. Having this, her next concern is how to make the best use of it. Piano study and practice alone cannot prepare her for playing the organ; for the two instruments are very different in touch and mechanism. The organ, like each orchestral instrument, possesses characteristics which must be learned with the guidance of a teacher. The lack of uniformity in stop arrangement and combination makes it necessary to study each organ itself.
Having a good chapel organ, and ample preparatory instruction, she has next to consider what to play. Her selections are, of course, governed by the character of the meeting, whether sacramental, funeral, auxiliary, or holiday. The organ prelude for Sunday meetings serves the dual purpose of quieting the assembly and creating a devotional atmosphere. This latter cannot be achieved through a sentimental nocturne or popular air, however slowly and softly it be played. Such music suggests a moonlight romance rather than spiritual elevation. A soul-thrilling melody, like Handel's "Largo," would perhaps catch the attention of the audience sooner than would a piece composed mainly of chord progressions. Preludes for funerals may be either solemn marches as for the postlude, or sympathetic hymns for religious meditation. But for a holiday or "conjoint" meeting,
320 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
let the prelude be in bright, cheerful mood, though never undignified or spectacular. It may be said in passing that the cabinet organ's possibilities for concert solo work seem to be almost overlooked, yet we enjoy solos upon the concertina, the accordion, and even the little harmonica—all with power vastly inferior to those of our modest organ. And it is surprising what a deal of brilliant music is available and adaptable for the instrument if one but looks for it.
Congregational hymns should be introduced in a tempo somewhat faster than meant to be sung, being played in crisp, rather detached style, definitely marking the rhythm, and thereby leading the singers into the proper swing, but after they have set their pace, neither chorister nor organist need try to hurry them.
Choir accompaniments are subject to the wishes of the chorister, regardless of the organist's own ideas, for in a mutual relation somewhat like that of bishop and counselor, chorister and organist must work in harmony; and it is the place of the organist not to volunteer suggestions concerning the choice or the interpretation of choir music, but to play whatever and however directed.
Organ music for sacrament should always be sweet and devotional, though not including such pieces as "The Rosary" or various "Ave Maria's," which suggest forms and ideas contrary to our religious teaching.
The choice of a postlude depends upon the occasion. If the audience is to march out in regular order, a well defined march movement should be played, preferably one in military 4/4 time, but not a one-step, two-step, or operatic ballet suggestive of dance hall or theatre, as they may neutralize the spiritual influence of the preceding music. Ordinarily postludes need not be marches but may include many excellent pieces of triple rhythm. Their function seems mainly to cover the confusion of moving feet and social chat, though on holiday or patriotic occasions they can add a joyous, exultant finale to the preceding service.
I commend to you, dear fellow-organists, the advice of my beloved teacher, Professor Thomas Radcliffe, not long before he passed from earth: "If you regard your music as part of the worship of the Almighty, then the best you have is none too good for such service." With a good instrument, some musical talent, adequate preparation, and prayerful diligence, we all can render service inspiring to our fellow-beings and acceptable to our heavenly Father.
ATTITUDE OF CHORISTER AND ORGANIST TO THEIR WORK
Mrs. Rosannah C. Irvine, Member of General Board
Not being a musician, I perhaps might not be able to reach you with the same technique that a musician would. But I think, if you choristers and organists have the right attitude toward your work, the right ambition, the right spirit, the right energy, and the present day PEP, you can put over your work. It will be a success if you choristers and organists have the Spirit of your calling, which is to praise our heavenly Father and thank him with all your hearts through song.
VALUE OF THE CHORISTER AND ORGANIST TO THE ORGANIZATION
Elise B. Alder, Member of General Board
Herbert Witherspoon, President of the Chicago Musical
322 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
College, has said that about one-fourth of the population of the world can sing acceptably. That is a large percentage for us to take part and be of service. Good singing is to our meetings what salt is to food.
Let me bring before your minds two pictures. Let us suppose this is the Relief Society meeting room and that we are the members, waiting for meeting. It is seven minutes to two o'clock p. m. Down the hall we see coming from prayer meeting the president, her two counselors, the secretary and others. As they enter the room, we see a distressed look on the president's face, and we hear her say, "Sister Brown, see if you can find someone to play the organ. Sister Jones, please select some hymns." No one can be found who can play, and by the time they are ready to begin the meeting it is five minutes past two. They sing "We Thank Thee, O God, for a Prophet," but get it pitched too high. Prayer is said, but inspiration is lacking. They sing again; roll is called, minutes read. No chorister present, hence no singing practice. The Literature Chairman has her lesson well prepared, but, try as she will, it is hard to interest her listeners. Meeting is dismissed. On the way home someone remarks, "What was the matter with our meeting today?"
The next picture will answer the question: Down the hall we see coming the president, counselors, and other officers, from their prayer meeting. As they near the door we see the organist hasten to the organ, nodding to the officers as she goes. At five minutes to two o'clock we hear sweet strains of music—not taken from some book she has picked up on entering the room, but music well thought out and prepared. At two o'clock the music is hushed. The president arises and in her hand she holds a slip of white paper, upon which are written the titles and pages of the songs to be sung. They sing "We Thank Thee, O God for a Prophet" with a real spirit, and it paves the way for the prayer. They sing again, roll is called, minutes read. The chorister and organist, well understanding their work, in unity conduct a most inspiring singing practice, and they are able to get all to sing and enjoy the practice. The Literature Chairman, inspired by the singing and being well prepared, gives a beautiful lesson on Eugene Field. At the end of the first part of the lesson she is able to say, "Our chorister has someone to sing one of our author's poems;" and a sweet singer sings "Little Boy Blue." They sing again and benediction is pronounced. As the sisters are walking home, we hear, "Oh, what a wonderful meeting." Why? I will leave that for you to answer.
When Hayden was praised for his wonderful oratorio—the Creation—he cried, "Not I, but the Power from above created that." And so you and I feel when we are blessed in our work. A certain chorister was heard to say, "What do I get out of all this but hard work?" My dear sisters, success in life is not measured by what we get but by what we give; yet the Lord is the
RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE 323
best paymaster in all creation, and he has said, "In as much as ye do it unto these, my brethren, ye do it unto me, for behold I will bless all those who labor in my vineyard with a mighty blessing." "There is a destiny that makes us brothers, None goes his way alone, All that we put into the lives of others, Comes back into our own."
PROFESSOR ANTHONY C. LUND Leader, Tabernacle Choir
My dear sisters: The Relief Society has never seemed to me an organization for the development of music, it has so many wonderful duties of mercy and charity to perform; however, I am sure that the Society in various places will show us high grade music, and I am sure we all agree that the women who constitute the Relief Society are really one of the greatest forces in the Church in every way, so that whatever they undertake they will accomplish.
Now, music must be fostered and promoted because of the appeal it makes. You were just reminded that neither the chorister nor the organist is remunerated for services, but that there is compensation in the good that is achieved, in that which is accomplished, and we must take care of the cultural aim, it seems to me, of all of our activities.
There was a time when the church at Rome would not allow a woman in the choir; they had boys and men and monks to take care of the singing in the churches; but there was a break-away, of course, in the Reformation; women gradually began to do something in the way of choir work and church singing, until now nearly everywhere it is far easier to get beautiful voices for church services from among the women than it is to get all male members. You are taking your place, and no more than your place when you excel in matters of culture.
I do not want to speak in a general way on music; I wish we might discuss together some of your problems. I understand that some of you aim to take ten minutes for practice in each meeting. Now I can tell you choristers and organists that if you have but 10 minutes, everything should be prepared in writing, and you should know every step you are going to take in order to make it count. You cannot get along very well with so little time unless it is wonderfully organized, every step made and taken without hesitation. You must know just what you are going to do. Choristers and organists should be united, and come to a common understanding or decision as to how the thing shall be done. They should arrange to have a little session first and know what they are going to unite upon.
324 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
It would be a good thing, if possible, for you to add to your practice a little exhilarating breathing exercise, and some little singing of scales. I have taught people year in and year out, and if you heard them sing and keep time you might think that they were expert; but when it comes right down to the point, many of them have gone along and done just as little of the fundamental work as possible, and they have reached a pretended grade, a pretended proficiency. I know this from experience. I remember once when a world-renowned doctor was giving us a talk, he said that one of his boys said to him one day, "Doctor, I think I will change and go to somebody else; I feel really conscience-stricken to be so much trouble to you. I need fundamentals and I shall go to a beginning teacher." The doctor said that in this world of ours there is really nothing else so important as fundamentals; that you have to get back to the root of things in every lesson, in order to achieve the progress that you desire to make. Every achievement goes back to fundamentals. I am sure, from long experience in teaching, that as teachers we are never so much enjoyed, and never so profitable to our students, as when we get right down to fundamentals and accomplish something. And if you can make your fellow singers whom you teach in Relief Society, believe that they have gained a single point, if you can prove to them that they have learned something definite, they are going to be there again.
In your practice, I suggest that you sing your song through and then come back and make your corrections, singing from end to end. This is much more encouraging than to work altogether on phrases or parts of the song. We should also pay strict attention to whatever marking is given at the beginning of the hymn. If we take something that is allegro, and render it a little bit slow, people might not know what was the matter with it and think it almost uncanny. The Lord gave us ears, which are divinely appointed to censor that which the voice does. The ear is natural without cultivation. Some can hear better than others, but all can hear that which is pleasing or displeasing, although they may not know definitely what it is that makes it so. I would advise you to learn very closely the marks of tempo. It is somewhat difficult when your pieces are allegro, to know just how fast they should be rendered. In the main—three-four time is always faster than four-four time. What is moderately fast for three-four time would be quite rapid for four-four time. So we have to understand these units of measure.
The best way to make a society feel rhythmical is to be rhythmical yourself, and to demand a certain movement, a certain motion, slow or fast, which will give interest and meaning to that which we are doing. I remember with very much pleasure that when I first came home from Europe I was organist for Mr. Sam Barratt; he had an uncanny recogni-
RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE 325
tion of rhythm and its value, and I enjoyed playing for him more than I have for anyone since that time. He would drill and drill the boys and girls of the 17th ward, and they remember it to this day, because they often speak to me of the good time they had in Brother Barratt's Sunday School choir. You have seen people with rhythm and others without rhythm, and you have tried to dance with some of the latter and found it difficult, I am sure.
I desire to stress to you the importance of beating time well. Mozart said that time is the most beautiful and the most difficult part of music. Now you have the rhythm of a piece of music, and it has given you wonderful pleasure, it has been inspirational and you have been lifted up, you have felt fine about it, just as you have felt when you read together at school, and there was a swing about the reading which made you enjoy it. Now do not feel that your music is in any way finished, in any sense prepared, until all come to a unity of the swing, and then you will really enjoy it.
Students of music should make a careful study of the metronome, which is a mechanical device for giving the minute measure; and you will find sometimes great discrepancies between what you think and what someone else thinks. Be careful to measure your time, as time is one of the most attractive factors of your work.
Music is wonderful. I don't know, but I cannot help but regard musicians as a little superior in some ways. We are all so poor, but it is well worth while, and we ought to be proud of our profession. The things of the industrial world will keep themselves alive; but if we desire the artistic in life, we must all make sacrifices in order to obtain it.
Do not get tired, if you please, of the old songs, the songs you have used and used. If they were art works when you began to use them, they remain art works all through time. Schumann said that the greatest sign of the artist was that he could always be enthusiastic about an art work, and more enthusiastic as he used it. That is the sign of the artist. Do not be afraid to use old songs; if they were once beautiful, they are always beautiful.
General Session (Thursday Morning)
COUNSELOR JENNIE B. KNIGHT
In behalf of the General Board of the Relief Society I extend greetings and welcome to you, my dear sisters of the Relief Society. I appreciate more than I can tell you the opportunity I have of working with you in this great cause. I appreciate the president of this organization. I never saw, it seems to me, a more queenly woman, or one who has a greater heart than Sister Williams; I am
326 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
thankful, as her counselor, to labor by her side. I appreciate the privilege of laboring with Sister Robison and Sister Lyman, women of intelligence and good judgment and everything that is necessary to qualify them for the positions that they hold; likewise, the members of the General Board; and not any less do I appreciate the privilege of welcoming you here today as workers in this great cause.
Many of you have come long distances to attend this conference; and what has been the incentive back of it? You all know in your own hearts that it has not been selfishness. You have come that you might be better informed and better inspired, that your vision might be enlarged to do unto others as you would have them do unto you; and even greater than that, to do for others things that you would not, in a way, do for yourselves. You sacrifice many of your personal desires and your own wishes, and hours that you might give to your family, in order to serve this great sisterhood, and the Lord blesses you for your efforts. He will bless you in your families; and you will become an influence and a power in your family that you could not obtain if you did not recognize and try to magnify the calling that has come to you through the Priesthood of our Father.
We are especially appreciative today of the work of the officers of the Salt Lake Valley stakes. We appreciate them for the beautiful display of work which they have arranged in the office, and we invite you to visit this marvelous exhibit. It must be a great and happy thought to you when you reflect that the sun does not set upon the work of the Relief Society of this Church, and that it all came from the small beginning of 18 members—now grown to over 61,000 women. That should be a testimony to you, as it is to me, that the Lord inspired this work and that he blesses our efforts.
We are happy today in having some of our mission presidents with us, and I am sure that we are going to have a feast of good things. I hope that the Lord will bless you, that your minds may be able to retain all that you desire to retain. When you return to your homes may you be like a light that is set upon a hill, that cannot be hid, and that giveth light unto all that are around you.
MRS. PEARL C. SLOAN President Northwestern States Mission Relief Society
It is with pleasure that I bring greetings from the Relief Society sisters of the Northwestern States Mission, and our love and appreciation to Sister Williams and the General Board, for the wonderful help that they have been to us in our lesson work in the mission field.
We have in our mission thirty Relief Societies reporting at the beginning of the year, against nineteen last year. We also have one newly organized Society, with requests for two
RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE 327
more, which will be organized shortly. We feel that the Relief Society is a real anchor to the women who are in the large cities in the mission field, that it fills the need for something to center around, and that it holds together these sisters whose lives have been cast among the people of the world. And we have wonderful support from these women; they are loyal to our organization. It requires faith and courage for mothers to take one, two, or three children and cross the city to attend Relief Society meeting; but this our sisters are happy to do.
Our women in the rural districts are just as anxious to attend meetings as those who are in the cities. At a conference I visited recently it was reported to me that one sister had traveled regularly, through all winds and weather, twenty miles, to attend Relief Society meeting. Another woman, a president, living eight miles distant was always in attendance, even if she had to walk two or three miles to catch the bus.
Work in the Relief Society means to our women what a vacation does to an employee. Employers have long since found that they could get more efficient service from employees if they gave them a vacation. We consider, in a way, the Relief Society a vacation to the busy mother. It gives her an opportunity to get out and find out what other people are doing and to partake of the advantages offered through our lessons.
More than I can tell you, we appreciate the lessons as outlined. The lessons in theology have been especially adapted for our sisters in the mission field. As arranged, they create the desire to study the Scriptures. We find, too, that through our literary lessons a desire for good literature is created and we gain a great deal from the research work. The social service lessons are also a delight to us. We are very happy with our new text book. In Portland, two months ago, upon inquiring about this book we found that eleven copies were in the libraries in that city. These were in great demand, as they were being used as texts by three or four other welfare organizations. Not long ago I found in my Parent-Teachers' Magazine that this book had been recommended to the parents of the children in the Oregon School District.
In many of our societies we have talented women who are members but are not affiliated with our Church. They are happy to enjoy the benefits of our organization, and give us real help in the social service and literary lessons.
In the mission fields our work is somewhat different from that in the stakes of Zion. Our districts are widely scattered; some it is impossible to visit more than once a year. When I tell you that to visit my farthest organization would take me twelve hours longer than it would to go to Salt Lake City, you can appreciate the situation. We are happy in our work, and we keep in touch with our organizations, even though we have to visit them by way of the typewriter.
Last summer in one rural district where there is a
328 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
little colony, the Elders reported that the sisters desired a Relief Society organization, but concluded that it would be impossible on account of the condition of the road through the winter months and the distance these sisters would have to travel, to hold that organization. They asked if it would be possible to organize a society for the summer months. The Society was organized; bad roads and great distances meant nothing to them after they had become interested in their lessons. This Society not only continued but doubled its membership, last winter.
I attended one of our branches recently when a lovely pageant featuring our work was given. After the meeting a physician walked up and said, "I am not a member of your Church, but I feel that your young men and your young women have meant much to me. They came to me when I was discouraged, when, though I needed not the things to feed the mortal body, I needed spiritual food. Their message meant much to me; and if I can do anything to help any society you have near by me, in a medical way, I shall be happy to do so." Through our missionaries this good man had become interested and had offered his services free to little children in that district who needed them.
In closing I express my appreciation to the parents of the worthy elders and women missionaries that we have in our field. Their companionship means much to us, and I desire you to know that they are doing noble work in the Northwestern States Mission.
MRS. FLORENCE R. KNIGHT Former President Western States Mission Relief Society
It is a great pleasure, I assure you, to report the Relief Societies of the Western States Mission, over which I have had the honor of presiding for nearly nine years. The mission comprises the states of Colorado, New Mexico, Wyoming, Nebraska, West and South Dakota, and Council Bluffs, Iowa, covering an area of more than 350,000 miles, with a population of about six million people. From Denver it is nearly one thousand miles to one of the organizations in New Mexico; to visit them is a difficult task.
We have twenty-four societies, most of them thoroughly organized. Some have had to discontinue for a time, but every effort is being made to start them again. The members take an active part in teaching the gospel to their people, arranging for cottage meetings, distributing literature; and engaging in gospel conversations. Many baptisms result from the efforts of Relief Society workers. Where chapels have been erected, the women have played a great part in helping the branch president. Many are new converts, but they have a wonderful spirit, and are happy in helping others. I have learned to love the work of the Relief
RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE 329
Society, and to love these women. It was hard to part with them, because I have watched their progress and their faithfulness. To see them arise in testimony meeting and express their love for the truth and declare that ever since they have been baptized their lives have been changed, makes the worker in the mission field rejoice. We have followed the outlines and the lessons have been wonderful, under our competent class leaders, who come well prepared. In bad weather and over poor roads, our women come many miles to attend these meetings.
A few words about the missionaries. I love every one of them. I have presided over the mission home and have had five or six at a time living there. They have been very dear to me, and I congratulate their fathers and mothers in this Church. They have helped us in our Relief Society work; they even prepare the lessons, and do so most intelligently. Many of the women missionaries have stated that they did not attend the Relief Society meetings before they went on their missions but that they have learned to love the work. When they go home they expect to encourage their mothers to attend. I wish to thank the officers and the General Board, because they have helped me in my work; and I ask the Lord to bless each one of you.
MRS. LALENE H. HART Member of the General Board, and President of the Canadian Mission Relief Society
Never before in my service in public have I had greater joy and satisfaction than I have in the past year in the missionary field. My duties have been rather arduous—President of the Relief Society and mission mother in the home. My chief responsibility, as I have discerned it, has been to mother, in the best way I can, the boys and girls that you mothers and fathers have sent into the field.
I wish that I could cause you to feel the responsibility that is placed upon your boys and girls in the mission field—that big responsibility of proclaiming the gospel to the world. Never before, I think, have the missionaries needed the support of the home influence as they do now. This is owing to the temptations that come to them, the modern conditions that they have to meet, and the problems before them. For boys and girls who have not had that responsibility in their home lives, it is remarkable how they meet all situations. Mothers, encourage your boys and girls. Do not write to them regrets that they have to do certain things, which you think are trials. They need your support, your prayers. One boy came to me just before I left, saying: "Sister Hart, tell my mother I never appreciated her more in my life; but ask her to pray for me." No doubt that mother is praying in her heart always for that boy.
330 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
Last September it was my privilege to meet the missionaries of the Canadian and the Eastern States Mission at the Sacred Grove and the Hill Cumorah, to commemorate the one hundredth anniversary of the time that the plates were given to Joseph the Prophet. This was one of the most happy experiences that I have ever had. On that occasion, you could feel the presence of the Spirit of our Heavenly Father. I think I never was more inspired than when I stood in that Sacred Grove and heard the songs and testimonies, and the prayers offered by the President of the Church and other leading brethren.
I have had the privilege myself of helping to send and keep in the mission field five boys. I know what it means to a mother to know that her boy has a testimony and that his testimony increases by the work that he does. When I heard the testimonies of these boys and girls on that occasion, and perceived the spirit they manifest, it filled my heart with gratitude.
I have not yet had the privilege of visiting Relief Society work over the whole Canadian Mission. It takes about three weeks. The Societies are small and we have only eleven. They are made up mostly of people who have come from England or other countries, and stay with us until they get a chance to get into the United States. They are strong in the faith, and they follow the plans and outlines given by the General Board.
Now, I bear my testimony, my dear sisters, in all humility, that I do know that God lives, that the boy prophet was indeed a prophet of the living God, and that the gospel has been restored in these last days for our benefit. May we ever be found faithful to the trust that he has placed in us and may we do our duty as mothers and as Relief Society workers.
MRS. ANNIE WELLS CANNON Member General Board
I am a little reminiscent today, and I am going to ask you sisters to take a little time with me and go back this morning in memory to Nauvoo. Last night we witnessed a very magnificent spectacle in the tabernacle, the onward progress in Relief Society work of one of the great stakes of Zion in symbolic portrayal. Prior to that pageant which was rendered we saw before us some living pictures of women leaders of our Church—great women leaders: Emma Smith, Eliza Roxey Snow, Zina D. H. Young, Bathsheba W. Smith, Emmeline B. Wells, and Mary Isabella Horne, sainted women who knew the Prophet Joseph Smith, women who lived in Nauvoo.
I wonder if you, like me, saw other pictures as you gazed on these sainted figures, if your mind went back to that beautiful but ill-fated city of Nauvoo, if you saw riding along the streets
RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE 331
of that city, on a wonderful charger, a magnificent man, spiritually and physically magnificent, training other men in military tactics—the Nauvoo Legion. Did you wonder if he, himself, knew why he did that, and yet the history of our Church tells the story, when we remember the wonderful military precision of the camps of Israel, how in tens and fifties and hundreds they came out from that city, crossed the Mississippi, traversed the waving prairies, and trekked the desert sands into the wilderness, how later in military precision these same men went out and fought the savages in defense of their homes, and still later, went out, on to the frontier to protect the United States mail.
I wonder if you saw that same figure gathering his brethren together in the School of the Prophets, and teaching them the principles that we have here in this sacred record book for Church government, the revelations of God. I wonder if you saw him with a group of chosen women gathered around him, teaching them the great work that was yet before the women of Zion—the work of the Relief Society in which we women are now engaged.
And as you looked upon these pictures did you not also see other wonderful pioneer women who knew him: women who had listened to his teachings, women who had wept for Zion when he was martyred, women who had witnessed his mantle fall on Brigham Young, and with undaunted faith had made every sacrifice: Elizabeth Ann Whitney, Sarah M. Kimball and Harriet Decker Young, and a host of great women who went through the hardships of pioneer life. Many of those women, all of them, I think, that I have named, with the exception of Emma Smith, have stood on this stand and borne to you or to some of us who remember them, their testimony.
What was it that made it possible for them to endure all their hardships? Many of us have not only listened to their voice but have been ministered to by their hands, blessed by their lips in our homes and in the houses of the Lord. I ask what was it made it possible for them to endure all these things that they did endure and to win such a wonderful victory? It was not wealth; it was not knowledge particularly, except the knowledge of the Lord. It was testimony—the testimony in their hearts of the truth of the gospel and the divinity of the mission of the Prophet Joseph Smith. This was the light that led them and made it possible to endure all things.
This is a day of speeding life, a day of radiant pleasure. We women of today have not these physical struggles that the pioneer women had. We are not meeting mob violence in this day and we are not pioneering, especially, the wilderness, but we have other battles to fight; there are other forces for us to meet. Satan is more subtle than ever before and the insidious fight that he is making among the youth of Zion is something for us to contemplate most seriously. The day of the chaperone is passe; it is not only impossible for us to go with our boys and our girls in their pleas-
332 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
ures, but it is impossible for us even to follow them in this day of automobiles and airplanes and telephones and radio. We as mothers in Israel, as workers in the Relief Society, must be strong to have them for our guide, let us be watchmen on the tower, and in our organizations and in our daily lives study more than ever before to have in our hearts the testimony that was in their hearts, borne to us that God lives and that these people were willing to say even as did the Prophet Job, "though he slay me yet will I trust in him," and that this gospel has been revealed through the Prophet Joseph Smith for the betterment of not only the few but for all the world, and I pray that the testimony of this truth will be in the heart of every Latter-day Saint woman, to help her bear the burdens of life, and I ask it in the name of Jesus. Amen.
MISS SARAH M. McCLELLAND Member of General Board
It is said that there is a certain psychological value in having a large number of people thinking and doing the same thing at the same time, and that therein lies the strength of organized effort on the part of men and women. Unity of action is essential to real success. Through union of feeling we gain power with God. I believe there is a divine balance in all things of life, and that the Eternal Father casts us in the role where the need is greatest at the time. I believe we are given ambition and ability with which to raise ourselves, if we so desire, to the higher planes. When you cannot trust God, you cannot trust anything. When you cannot trust anything, you are in the condition of the world today:
From the lofty rafters of a barn a spider once came down upon a single thread of web, and established himself upon a lower level. There he spread his web, caught flies, grew sleek, and prospered RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE 333 Then he said, "What good is the thread that is stretched up into the unseen above me?" So he snapped it, and all his web collapsed. And unless we can keep the modern materialist from breaking our communion with the unseen, our spiritual history may meet the same fate. Emerson says "Mormonism" is the only religion of power and vitality that has made its appearance for the last twelve hundred years. In a conference in the tabernacle, in 1920, William Jennings Bryan said, "I have never before witnessed such divine fervor." Our strength does not lie in numbers, but in the power of the spirit. The Bible and other ancient records have given us testimonies of the divinity of Jesus Christ, but our Heavenly Father has given unto us another testimony. In the 76th Section of the Doctrine and Covenants, on February 16, 1832, the Prophet Joseph Smith and Sidney Rigdon had a vision, and gave to all the world this testimony: "After the many testimonies which have been given of him, this is the testimony last of all, which we give of him, that he lives, for we saw him even on the right hand of God, and we heard the voice bearing record that he is the only begotten of the Father." President Joseph F. Smith said he believed many of our young people have a testimony of the gospel, but do not know it; they are looking for some wonderful manifestation. He gave this key: When you are listening to some great truth that is being delivered, and you have a feeling in your soul that it is true, and there is a burning in your heart, that is the testimony to your soul that it is true. Says Emerson, "Do the thing and you shall have the power; but they who do not the thing, have not the power." It would be an ideal condition if we had trained workers for all positions; but the training usually comes after the call. It isn't how much you know, however, but how much you can do with what you know. It isn't how many languages you can speak, but what you can say in one language. As a rule the opportunity comes to all to use their gifts. Eliza R. Snow said, "It is only through the cultivation of the pure and good side of our nature that the Spirit of God can dwell within us." To be a member of the Relief Society is an opportunity, a duty, a responsibility. Any man who in his life work does nothing whatever for his fellowman, has labored in vain. According to the Prophet Joseph, one man empowered from Jehovah has more influence with the children of the kingdom than millions led by the precepts of men. Brigham Young in a discourse, remarked that whether we are rich or poor, if we neglect our prayers and sacrament meetings, we neglect the Spirit of the Lord, and a spirit of darkness comes over us. When the people do all they can, the Lord is bound to do the rest. Man can produce and control his own acts, but he has no control over their results. We are told there is no chastisement can come upon us that is not 334 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE for our good; it develops some virtue in our character. Eternal life means eternal growth. Daniel Webster has beautifully said, "If you work upon marble, it will perish; if you work upon brass, time will efface it; if we rear temples, they will crumble into dust; but if we work upon immortal souls, we engrave on those tables something which brightens all eternity." The Relief Society has grown from a small Seeing Its members have devoted much time to the temporal affairs, which have helped to improve spiritual conditions. All the good we do is indeed spiritual; for before the Father all is spiritual. A strong spiritual vein underlies the outward covering. We are helping to fulfil the law when we love our neighbor. I would just like to add my father's testimony that he received in Nauvoo. Sister Cannon's remarks reminded me of this. He had given up home and country, everything he loved, because he heard that the "angel had flown through the midst of heaven, having the everlasting gospel to preach to those who dwell on the earth." He said, "I want to see that man; I want to shake his hand;" so he and my mother came to America. In Nauvoo they met the Prophet Joseph Smith, and my father said when he shook his hand these words went through his mind: 'Whither thou goest I will go; thy people shall be my people; thy God shall be my God." General Session (Afternoon Meeting) COUNSELOR LOUISE Y. ROBISON My heart has been filled with gratitude for the spirit that has been with us during this conference. I was impressed while witnessing the Relief Society Review. When I saw those ward Relief Society presidents march up the aisle, it was inspiring; their faces had with them, no matter what complexion or what feature, a look almost of divinity, and I thought "Why?" First the thought came to me, it is because of the service they have rendered. Then I thought that even back of that there is something else. It is the manner in which they have rendered the service and met the problems of life. Some time ago I read an article entitled, "Which Window Do You Look From?" It told how, on one side of a man's house, there was one window through which he looked out on a scene of depression—unpainted houses, unwashed windows, unkempt yards, and everything depressing; but there was another window through which he saw a beautiful home, with lovely shrubs and flowers; and even when the flowers were gone in the winter and rains and winds came, there was peace and courage there. Compare RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE 935 these views and those he had from the windows of his soul, as he looked out upon life. He could see the jealousies and the envies, the untruths and the falsifying, and the ugly things of life; or he could look out upon the beautiful promises made by our Father in heaven. We may doubt the word of man, but we cannot doubt the word of God. He has given us his word, that he is with us always, although we are not where we can see him. He says, "Lo, I am with you always, even unto the end." In our Doctrine and Covenants, Section 6, he says, "Look unto me in every thought; doubt not, fear not." Through his beloved John he said, 'Behold I stand at the door, and knock; if any man hear my voice and open the door, I will come in to him, and will sup with him, and he with me." (Revelations 3:20). Physical culturists tell us, if we will breathe deeply for so many minutes each morning, that all through the day we shall continue to breathe deeply. I wonder if we ought not to apply that to our prayers. We all pray in the morning; but too quickly we forget and start worrying; and we think, if this happens today or if that happens today, we cannot endure it. We forget, and look out of the wrong window of our soul. Of course, we must meet problems in life; they are here for us to meet, and we could not be strong if we had not to meet them; but we can meet them by looking out of the right window of the soul, and know that our Father's word is true today, just as it was when he uttered it, "Lo, I am with you always." I think of how far I drift away from what I could be. When we read that the Psalmist said, "The Lord is my Shepherd, I shall not want," it seems to me that we should trust the shepherd always watching over us—''He maketh me to lie down in green pastures, and leadeth me beside the still waters." So if we could, in our lives, always look out of the window of faith, then we could be comforted by the forty-sixth Psalm, "be still and know that I am God." Just a word from the General Board in appreciation of the great kindness of our sisters when we go out into the stakes. I think you will never know what it means to us, after we have had an all-night ride and we come to your place dusty and unkempt, to find you so courteous, lovely, and hospitable to us. It makes our work easier. We appreciate you for all the work you are doing. When the report is read of how many days were spent with the sick, I wonder if you realize what a great thing you are doing and what it means to people in trouble. My heart goes out in loving tenderness to you women who serve and help to make life more lovely for others. Mrs. May Booth Talmage's address will appear in a later issue. 336 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE PRESIDENT CHARLES W. NIBLEY It has certainly been an hour of rare enjoyment to be with you and listen to your songs, your prayers, and your speakers, and to become a little better acquainted with the great work you are accomplishing. This is a wonderful organization. In good works. I think it the most efficient, possibly, of any auxiliary organization. It was wonderful to behold, as I did a short time ago, the magnificent Review which you put on in the Tabernacle—a demonstration of the force, power, magnitude and glory of your work. With tears in my eyes, I beheld those dear sisters, especially the ward presidents from all these different stakes, marching down the aisles of the Tabernacle, and I thought what a wonder. What a marvel is this great work of the Lord. As I looked on that scene in the Tabernacle, I thought in my heart, I wish the Prophet Joseph Smith could be here now and see what we are witnessing. I think we hardly realize what it all means. I know it is difficult for me to sense to the fullest the grandness, the glory, the majesty, of this work. It cannot be done. The human mind cannot grasp it. It extends back into the eternities of the past and through this gleam of time that we call now, into the eternities of the future. I know the sacrifices that you sisters make. I know how much the bishops of the wards depend upon the Relief Society for help. The presidencies of stakes and the brethren who stand at the head, the Presidency and Apostles, also know very well that your work is rare and choice indeed; and there is nothing but praise, all praise, all honor, to the noble, splendid labors of our sisters. God bless you, my dear sisters, in this glorious work of your Master, our Master, the Lord Jesus Christ. When Sister Talmage spoke to ts concerning these gatherings in the old countries, held under such great difficulties, and the sacrifices these people make for the spirit of the work and the upbuilding of it, I thought how wonderful it all is. I thought it nearly as wonderful as the words of the Savior to the boy prophet, a small boy, unlettered, with no chance for education, one of the most unimportant, probably, of young men, or certainly not important at all; and yet that unimportant, unlettered personage, without schooling, was told by the Lord that his name would be had for good and for evil among all the nations of the earth. How marvelous and yet how true! How the Lord is magnifying his work and adding to it and strengthening it and building it up! We are here to perform the labor that we are called upon to do, in humility, in obedience, in faithfulness, in sacrifice, if need be, to build up the kingdom of God, to make it great, so that the name of our God shall be great and honored in the earth, and men shall know as we know that the power of the living God is with his Church and his people. RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE Jov I, too, have visited Europe and more than once—in fact, six different times have I visited and traveled extensively there; and while I could not understand the language in Germany, Holland, Sweden, Norway, I could understand and feel the spirit of the Saints, which I found always the same. I was thrilled with their singing, their prayers and speaking, and bearing of testimony, in languages I did not understand. With power the spirit of the Lord is with you, my sisters; and I say again, all honor, all praise to the magnificent work that you are doing. The Lord bless your presidency, your General Board, presidencies of stakes, and all the faithful workers, those who sing for you; the ward presidents, who do the labor, the most of the real hard labor, although there is hard labor done even at the head. I know Sister Lyman here—no one has worked any harder or done any more real hard labor and work than she has; and so have the others; we all do our share; but I pray that the Lord will give us the spirit of the work, that we may accomplish it to his name's honor and glory and to the upbuilding of his kingdom and the establishment of his kingdom in the earth. MRS. AMY BROWN LYMAN General Secretary of Relief Society In addressing a great audience like this—such a wonderful audience of such good and capable people—I feel weak and timid; but I believe we all consider it a privilege and an honor to testify of the goodness of God to his children, of the blessings which have come to us from the gospel. While Sister Talmage was speaking of these various countries in Europe, I was thinking also of the women who are working in the islands of the sea. If we could circle the globe, we should be astonished at the things being done all around the world by Relief Society women. I have had the privilege of visiting the Relief Society women in Hawaii and seeing them at their work, seeing them preside at their meetings, and hearing them speak and pray in eloquent fashion. I visited their work meetings and saw the beautiful quilts, baskets, mats, and other things which they are making to raise funds for their charity work. In the Tahitian Mission the women pick cocoanuts and dive for pearls to raise money for Relief Society work. Sister Sessions tells how women in South Africa cook and sell food for the same purpose. In Armenia they weave rugs and make lace to add to their treasury. Sister Valentine, who is in the German-Austrian Mission, introduced the cafeteria luncheon there at the one hundredth anniversary of the birth of Brother Maeser, serving all the people with meals at 10c each. When Sister Hart spoke this morning about our missionaries and how hard their work 338 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE is because of unbelief in the world, I was reminded of something. I shall read it to you: "The final forces in human society are always the spiritual forces. The civilization of Central Europe did not go to smash in the summer of 1914, and in those fateful years which followed, for lack of brains. The disaster did not come because people did not know any better. Nor did it come from lack of wealth or of energy. The world had never been so rich nor so strong, in its ability to harness the elemental forces of earth and sky and sea to the task of human betterment, as it was in the opening decade of the Twentieth Century. The civilization of that fair and promising section of earth went to smash for lack of character. The people of Europe were not good enough to do the things which ought to have been done; they were not good enough to leave undone things which never should have been done. "And the recovery of Europe to its normal estate in these strange, hard days, is being held back chiefly, not by a lack of money or of material, not by a lack of knowledge or of brains, but mainly by the spirit of fear, of suspicion, of hatred between man and man, between land and land. "In my judgment the main hope for this torn and baffled world is to be found in religion. It puts first that which is first. It faces men in the right direction by an orientation of interest and desire which is valid. It calls upon them to seek first the rule of the divine spirit in their own hearts, to the end that all the other things demanded for worthy and joyous existence may be added in their proper order." Now the basic fact in religion is faith in God. We cannot have religion without God. We can have morals or ethics. But these carefully devised programs for human action lack the deeper source of motive and stimulus needed to nerve men for the hard tasks. The man of faith, sure that God is with him and for him, faces the field undaunted. "The Lord of Hosts is with us,' he says. "The God of Jacob is our refuge—therefore we will not fag" I have recently had an experience which has caused me to appreciate more deeply my religious heritage. I was associated for two or three weeks with a woman who styled herself an atheist. She told me she did not believe in God; nor in a pre-existence, nor in a hereafter; nor in the so-called mission of Jesus Christ, although she thought he was a good man, probably the best man that ever lived. This woman had been brought up with every opportunity. Left an orphan with plenty of money, she had attended church when a little girl, as had her husband; but they drifted away and became unbelievers. She was a woman of education and refinement and had traveled extensively. She was morally and ethically sound, optimistic, cheerful, charitable and RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE 339 kind to the poor. Her husband was dead and two of their grown children had passed away, leaving her practically alone. I asked her if she expected to see her husband and her beautiful daughters again; she said no, that it was all finished. I asked her what she thought had become of them. She said, "I think the life that was in them, the spirit you call it, has gone into the forces of nature, and the material part has gone into the elements of earth." I asked her how she could be so optimistic and happy and cheerful, and she said, "Everybody must meet the same fate and I am no better than anybody else; this is everybody's lot." And so she was reconciled. Every time I talked to her, I was almost overcome with gratitude for my knowledge and for being brought up in a religious home. I am thankful, grateful, that I know God lives, answers prayers, and will receive us in that heavenly home; that Jesus Christ is his son; that the gospel has been restored. Because of this experience these things are broader and bigger to me than they have ever been before. The greatest thing in the world is the gospel; the greatest realities are spiritual. Other good things are important, but the transcendent force is the spirit within us. Thankful, as I am sure you are, for our background is practically the same, that my parents were drawn to this Church just as iron filings are drawn to a magnet, I am, thankful, also, that my father was willing to leave his comfortable home in the South and cast his lot with the Saints in Nauvoo; that he was willing to cross those trackless plains with that first band of pioneers in 1847, to a haven of rest for this people. I am thankful that he was willing later to cross the plains over and over again, thirteen times with ox team, to lead others here. What we are is a result of heredity, environment, and experience; and I am grateful that my background is what it is. How anyone can believe there is no God I cannot understand; how anybody can believe that this great earth exists, moves, produces life, by chance; that matter and force, with no supervising intelligence and purpose back of them, could create an earth and could create human life. Walk into a department store; its system and order fill you with admiration. You ask, "Who planned this wonderful institution?" And I say to you, "Nobody; there was no intelligence nor purpose back of it. Matter and force somehow or other produced this great institution." You would laugh at such an answer. We might enter our beautiful capitol and ask in admiration, ""Who planned this wonderful building and everything that is in it?' And if I should say "Nobody; it just came by chance—it just happened," you would be amazed. The globe that we inhabit goes swiftly through space in its own orbit, revolving on its axis. Do you think it is doing this without any direction or purpose back of it? I say and you say, 340 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE "No." Do you think a ship at sea will go directly and safely to port without drifting, unless there is some intelligence directing that ship? We say "No, there is a pilot on board." And so there is something directing this great earth; there is a pilot directing it, together with these great physical forces. It is our Heavenly Father, who is accessible to all of us. When we keep his commandments and obey his words, we can draw near unto and receive help from him. May the Lord help us to realize these spiritual things of life, so important that nothing else can compare with them., COUNSELOR JENNIE B. KNIGHT If I could speak the thoughts that have come to my mind during this conference, they would fill a book. Surely the stone that was spoken of by Daniel—the stone cut out of the mountain without hands—is rolling forth to fill the earth, and you are helping to carry it along. This morning in the hotel lobby I met the president of a little stake writing a letter to her missionary boy down in Australia; and this afternoon you have heard reports from the land of the midnight sun, from South Africa, and the islands of the sea, all telling of this message that our Lord and Savior restored again to the earth. Unto the testimonies borne I want to add my own of missionary work. In youth, it was my pleasure to belong to a Mutual Improvement Association, and it was our custom to celebrate our president's birthday by holding a testimony meeting. On one of these occasions our stake president was blessed with the gift of tongues and the interpretation was that the time was not far distant when some of the girls present would be called to go to the nations of the earth to preach the gospel. I remember looking around the room. A little fairhaired girl was there, and I said to myself, That will not come until the day when this little girl is grown up; it seemed far off. But not long after that, six girls from that Mutual Improvement Association, including myself, were called to go to England. It was in England where our missionaries first opened foreign missions; it was a singular coincidence that when the girls were called to go and bear the message as individuals, they went to England. I desire to testify to you that the Lord blessed those missionary girls, as he will bless your efforts to carry on the work at home. You will be glorified in his name and service. As sister Lyman was speaking of her great privilege and thankfulness in having a testimony of the gospel, I thought, yes, we are greatly blessed. The hands of those in authority have been placed upon our heads after we have entered into the water of baptism and come forth, and we are entitled to that spirit. 1 am thankful to my Heavenly Father that it has always seemed as natural to me to believe the gospel of Jesus Christ as it has for RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE 341 me to eat or to breathe—a debt of gratitude I owe to my parents. I owe much to the opportunities the Church has afforded me, for from my early infancy I was taught to pray, to believe in a Heavenly Father, and I know he has answered my prayers. He comes to my rescue when I need him, and my only worry is that I do not acknowledge his goodness enough. Now, at the close of this conference word comes to us that you feel that we have had a most splendid session. Away back in December, Sister Williams had this idea of department work for this conference in her mind, and she said after our executive meeting, just before Sister Lyman and I left to attend the National Council of Women, ''Now, if you have a moment to spare, will you try to think of something we can have by way of department meetings during the conference?" So she was thinking about it, and we have thought about it; when we have met with her in the executive and board meetings, we have planned it; and the Lord has blessed us in following her suggestion. I thank each and every member that has taken part in this conference to help make it such a success; those who have been asked to furnish the music or to make addresses have responded loyally, and every committee has done well its part. I am thankful you have been able to be here to participate in these great meetings, and may the Lord bless you in going to your homes. Substitution By Alberta Huish Christensen An English-garden picture hangs Within my breakfast room, Where hollyhock and mignonette And larkspur are in bloom; And though the skies outside be dull, The sea mists damp with gloom,  The sunshine of its garden path Illumines all the room. I have a golden memoried dream, Hung close within my heart, Where nightingale and slender moon And roses are a part; And when all life prosaic seems Like flowers without perfume, I live again the romance of A distant, perfect June. BE WITH ME, LORD Annie Pike Greenwood Be with me, Lord; Be with me yet awhile; Such weary thoughts the vacant hours beguile— My heart is sad while all around me smile; Be with me, Lord. Be with me, Lord; Thou wilt not leave me now— I am Thy child—before Thy feet I bow; I live, O Lord, but Thou wilt teach me how; Be with me, Lord. Be with me, Lord; Thou wilt my Shepherd be, For One who stilled the waves hath power with me; O lest I lose the path which leads to Thee, Be with me, Lord! June By Christie Lund June!—The month of the rose and the bride. The month of glorious moonlight nights; of whispered vows in rose-scented gardens; the month of romance and—love. It is strangely wonderful that, in spite of all the cruel satire about marriage, in spite of the large number of divorces being filed every day, Dan Cupid goes on his way, smilingly tinting the world with magnificent colors and filling it with poetry and music for the many young hearts that have given themselves into his keeping—just as they did a thousand years ago—just as they will a thousand years hence. For, no matter what changes, love remains changeless and unchanging. Strangely, gloriously wonderful! Thank God, that as long as there is life there will be love and young hearts that will beat high with its hope and promise. We can imagine Elizabeth Barrett coming out of the long darkness of her physical pain into the beauty of June and the love that had given her new life and hope and strength. We can understand her and Robert Browning's immortal love more clearly —in June. It must have been in June that Edgar A. Poe and Virginia Clem dwelt in that mythical "Kingdom by the sea" and sealed their love that neither time nor poverty nor disease could ever destroy. It is indeed the month of the bride. And as we watch the young bride and groom as they stand on the threshold of this great, new adventure, under the glory of June skies and amid the glamour of romance, and we hope—hope against hope—that they may take with them far into the sacred portals they enter all the joy and hope that now are theirs. We hope that his eyes will ever shine with the same tenderness and that they will meet the same pride and trust in hers. It can be done if they will both give ALL into the building of love's shrine. Love demands all or nothing; it demands faith, hope, constancy and sacrifice. But no matter what the demands of love are it is certain that it gives back many times what it receives; its law was written in heaven and its dividends are joy, peace, security, health, beauty and a wealth that surpasses that of Croesus in the love that surges back a hundred-fold into one's own soul. Doctor Frank Crane said that love was not blind but was rather the only thing in the world that could really see. Love sees the beauty in its beloved that the unseeing world is forever blind to. It sees the tenderness and sympathy that are hidden 344 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE like rare gems from the eye of the careless observer. No, love is NOT blind, it IS the only thing that really sees. Poor is he who has never known the rapture nor the pain of that sweetest of all sweet stories, but rich is he who has not only known it but has kept it in his heart of hearts forever after. "To keep one sacred flame Through life unchilled, unmoved— To love in wintry age the same As first in youth we loved. To feel that we adore Even to fond excess That though the heart would break with more It could not live with less." The Great Salt Lake By Linda S. Fletcher A bright tear on the tanned cheek of the West, Thou liest, O great and brooding Lake, A Niobe dissolved. The fierce and ardent Sun has tried in vain To kiss thee from the face of his Beloved; Thou pinest on, Longing to pour thy wealth of loveliness Again into the arms of thy great Lord, The mild Pacific. As years roll on and loneliness Adds to the bitter weight of thy deep grief, My heart yearns o'er thee. Canst not forget that early ecstasy, Be wooed to calm by all the beauteous sights Around thee? See how the mountains circle thee with peace, And how the sky decks thee at eventime In gorgeous, flaming robes of rose and gold, And flashing jewels. The morning loves thee, too, and lays on thee A shimmering cloak of tender green and gray, Crystal bedecked. Cannot these tender ministers soothe and cheer, 'Till all the pain be swirled from out thy heart Like mist by lifting winds?  Ah, can I ask, who too have known the pang Of separation from 2 being loved? There's no forgetting. Work and Business (Second Week in August) TEACHERS' TOPIC FOR AUGUST—THE HOME Art in the Home I. The home is an expression of the individuals who live in it. (a) Careful consideration and thought should be given to the appearance of the home as well as planning it to answer the needs of the occupants. 1. Exterior. A. Trees. B. Shrubs. C. Lawns. D. Vegetables and flower gardens. E. General appearance (coloring of houses). 2. Interior. A. Walls and furnishings—colors selected, warm or cold, according to room situation; lowtoned, background surfaces neutral, draperies simple and harmonious, lights well placed and shaded. Age of color. B. Furniture—suitable to use, substantial, harmonious. C. Pictures. 1. Paintings by reputable artists. 2. Copies of masterpieces. 3. Original drawings. 4, Place of family painting or photographs. 5. Pictures suitable for children's rooms. II. The individuals who live in the home are constantly influenced by their surroundings. (a) Intellectually. (b) Morally. Pictures My house has magic windows in its walls, Windows that open on a land of dreams, A land of quiet meadows and cool streams, Of forest paths, and radiant waterfalls. Here are forgotten cities, and old halls, With high-arched ceilings built of blackened beams, Where Rembrandt's mystic inner sunlight gleams On armored men, and women in quaint shawls. And here are quays where boats with colored sails Discharge exotic cargoes from far shores: Ivory and gems, baskets of precious ores, Old wines in earthen jars, and silken bales, Through time and space, in fancy he may roam Who has these magic wonders in his home. —Mackintosh. 3 Player-Piano Word-Rolls For L. D. S. Homes "Come, Come Ye Saints"' "O My Father" "O Ye Mountains High” Genuine Q. word-rolls. Words are PRINTED right on the rolls so you can play and SING at the same time. Every L. D. S. Home with a player-piano should order all these rolls of these beautiful hymns. $1 EACH We Pay Postage on any Order for Two or More Rolls Daynes - Beebe Music Go. "Older Than The State of Utah' 61 So. Main St. Salt Lake City (- JUNE "Outside the year-round Trim" This is month in painting program for - + ® Bennett's "Property Life Insurance" Products * * * Your Dealer has them —SCOWCROFT'S Blue Pine Preserves Are composed of only pure fruit and sugar cooked together in an open kettle just as you would make preserves in your own home. For something special ask your grocer for SCOWCROFT'S Blue Pine Raspberry Preserve. Berries. It has the flavor of fresh Kitchen King Jam Is composed of pure fruit, sugar and pectin in proper proportions to make a delicious jam. Try Kitchen King Raspberry Jam for a delicious spread. When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine The Last Word in Cooking Perfection When you buy an Electric Range from us you receive much more than just that. With every range we sell, the purchaser is assured complete cooking satisfaction, backed by our well-known guarantee and service. Every Electric Range in our large stocks is a product of the highest quality. They are priced as low as $67.50 You can have one in your home for $5.00 DOWN Two years to pay the balance. Utah Power & Light Co. Efficient Public Service —y Special Sale of VANITY Full Fashioned Hosiery 42 GUAGE, OF FINEST SILK An all over silk chiffon stocking—a real $1.95 value at the special price of $1.59. Box of three pair $4.55. Extra heavy service weight, silk to welt. Mercerized heel and toe.- A real value at $1.95, special price of $1.59, a box of three pair $4.55. A semi-chiffon stocking, silk to welt. Mercerized heel and toe. A real value at $1.85, special price $1.49, box of three pair $4.25. All new goods. All the new shades. Mail orders filled. On sale. Glazier & Taylor Hosiery Co. 74 Main Street—59 East Broadway, Salt Lake City VANITY HOSIERY SHOPPE 22 East Broadway When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine THE NEW FAST ROTAREX SPEEDY Smooth, Silent Performance STURDY CONSTRUCTION HANDSOME APPEARANCE GYRATOR WASHER AMAZING LOW PRICE These Features in the NEW ROTAREX Will Astonish You EASY TERMS THE UNEXCELLED ROTAREX WASHING ACTION The "dome-like" agitator (no center post), with its washing paddle and clothes-pusher, semi-turns in a half-circle movement 62 times a Minute, imparting a rotation of the clothes being washed, and giving proper attention to every garment or other piece. In from five to eight minutes a six-pound batch of laundry may be beautifully and cleanly washed. There is a minimum of wear in the Rotarex washing action and the daintiest things may be intrusted to it without fear of their being damaged. Ask for Free The absence of a center strings., Inter-Mountain Electric Co. 43-69 East 4th South DISTRIBUTORS Phone Was. 354 y — Wedding Bells Always Ring in June Our advice to those who may be concerned: Right now is the time to decide who will make your Announcements or Invitations. You should entrust this work to a firm that assures you the newest in style and correctness in taste. See us now, or send for samples and prices of Printed, New Process Embossed or Engraved Wedding Stationery. Our Line of Social Stationery is Complete and Prices Right The Deseret News Press 29 Richards Street SALT LAKE CITY When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine Home Trial post eliminates the wrapping of clothes and .; t a an. MY, we is Mert Bread Best Quality and Full Weight Utah Products Used Exclusively In Our Bakery -~ _ Southern Pacific Lines OFFER Special Round Trip Summer Fare: TO CALIFORNIA POINTS To LOS ANGELES AND RETURN BOTH WAYS S40) To LOS ANGELES via SAN FRANCISCO returning CAT 50 direct or route reversed....................... Proportionately low fares from all other points in UTAH, IDAHO and © MONTANA. STOPOVERS ALLOWED AT ALL POINTS. A TICKETS ON SALE DAILY—MAY 15TH TO SEPT. 30TH FINAL RETURN LIMIT OCTOBER 31ST For further information CALL, WRITE or PHONE PRESS BANCROFT, GENERAL AGENT PHONES WAS. 3008—3078 CONSERVATIVE INVESTMENTS  QUOTEO | Sent EDWARD L. BURTON & COMPANY  "PUT AWAY FOR THE RAINY DAY"  ————— When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine via SAN FRANCISCO)  $0. MAIN ST. It Male; SALT LAKE CITY UTAH = Z. C. M. I. Mountaineer Overalls STRONG SEAMS MOUNTAINEER OVERALLS Are made from first quality Denim,— guaranteed for quality, fit and service Something Different The Spring-O-All Suspender THE BRICK MAN Says: "We Make Something For ALL' Being manufacturers of Face and Common Brick, Sewer Pipe, Drain Tile, Building Blocks, Flue Lining, Wall Coping, Roof, Floor, Mantel, Bath and Kitchen Tile, we can provide comfort and sanitation for every community. If you are figuring on reclamation of lands requiring drainage, sewer systems for sanitation, or erecting buildings that will last forever, get in touch with THE SALT LAKE PRESSED BRICK 319 Kearns Bldg. Salt Lake City, Utah Phones: Wasatch 950—Wasatch 951 ate if When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine SUMMER GARMENTS OF APPROVED L. D. S. STYLES Selected from our extensive line of L. D. S. Garments we suggest the following numbers for summer wear:........ A P. Special ladies' number $1.25 High» grade Rayaneens An all-seasons number of sham silk, an exceptional bleached $1.65 $4.00 In addition to the summer styles, we carry a complete line of wool, cotton and wool, worsted wool with silkine mercerized cotton. Prices range from $2.25 to $5.75. In ordering, be sure to specify whether old or new style garments, threequarter or ankle length legs, short or long sleeves are wanted. Also give bust measure, height and weight to insure perfect fit. ORDER BY MAIL OR CALL AT STORE THE ORIGINAL UTAH WOOLEN MILLS 3% Block South of Temple Gate Seven Times Champion of the World Sent to you on Free Trial For Sale by a Utah Power & Light Co. And Eureka Vacuum Cleaner Co. 111 E. 2nd So. St., Salt Lake City When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine Ribbed, light weight cotton with rayon silk stripe. A ribbed, med. Wt. Cotton Briant Stringham, Manager Ribbed, light weight cotton our standard summer wt...$1.25 number for particular people 28 Richards Street on L. D. S. GARMENTS Good grade, and well made. When ordering, state Size, New or Old Style, and if for man or lady. Postage prepaid. Sample on request. 142 Flat Weave, Lt. Weight....$.95 264 Rayon Silk $3.50 cotton, Rayon Stripes........ 258 Double Card. Cot., Med. Wt. 1:95 54 Bleached Cot. Hvy. Wt..... 2.25 BARTON & CO. Established in Utah 45 Years FOR YOUR VACATION Visit Utah's Playgrounds FOR YOUR HOUSEHOLD. Use Utah's Sugar SEE AND SELL OUR NATURAL WONDERS BOOST AND BUY LOCAL PRODUCTS BOTH ARE INCOMPARABLE 7, ICE CREAM. -CANDY: CAKE Special Sunday Bricks and Neopolitan Bricks 25¢ pt., PUNCHES pe f 50c qt. Call Your Extra packed in ice.TEMPLE AND BURIAL CLOTHES COMPLETE SUITS FOR MEN AND WOMEN Variety of Grades and Prices. Prompt and Careful Attention To Mail—Telephone—Telegraph Orders Open Daily, 9 a. M.—5 p. M. GENERAL BOARD RELIEF SOCIETY Phone Wasatch 3286, 29 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine 208 Carded Cotton, Med. Lt...... 1.45 Merc. Lisle, Light Wt......... 250 108 Unbleached Cot., Med. Wt... 1 142 WEST SOUTH TEMPLE ST. Vee 217 Fine Lisle, Rayon Stripe.... 2.25 748 Unbleached Cot., Hvy. Wt... 2.00 908 Unbleached Cot., Ex. - 2.75 1072 Mixed Wool and Cotton.......4.00 Salt Lake City, Utah Rt «6=Keeley's Dealer, a ——_—/f Ask for one of our folders describing the different services we offer. LAUNDRY Hyland 190 Distinctive Work Office 319 S. Main St. O, NS We should'a drunk more This is milk. When we wuz kids —  "Kitchens and Bathrooms'' month in the year-round painting program for Bennett's "Property Life = Insurance" YOUNG, SAMSON, knows, what ee CLOVER LEAF DAIRY has them Your Dealer has 159 W. 1st So. Was. 217;  Have You That Contented Mind That Goes Along With a Beneficial Policy? You need our Insurance We want your Business: Beneficial Life Insurance Co. The Big Home Company When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine Products Heber J. Grant, Pres. Lorenzo N. Stohl, Mgr. CONTENTS Se JULY, 1928 Portrait of Mary Leach Adams.... Frontispiece Mary Leach Adams Fay | Ollerton 349 Sagebrush A. C. Sorenson Robbed by Wolves E. Grant Pioneer Memoriam.... Eloise A. McClure, Conference Address.. May Booth Talmage Editorial—The Century of the Death of Franz Schubert Women Voters Don't "Ring" The Hospital The Pioneer in Modern Literature Sarah Jenne Cannon. Annie Wells Cannon Pioneers Lois Vernon Hales Dear Sleeping Babe Carrie Tanner Hannah Christensen Pioneers and Parents.... Sarah B. Moody Listening to Beethoven's Fifth Symphony Annie Pike Greenwood An Amazing Life History.. E. I. Pulsipher Our Dauntless West Myrtle Janson Elizabeth Mary Clegg Brown Louetta Brown Like a Quiet Stream. Gwenevere Anderson Notes from the Field.. Amy Brown Lyman Organ of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints Room 20 Bishop's Bldg. Salt Lake City, Utah $1.00 a Year—Single Copy, 10c Foreign, $1.25 a Year—15ce Single Copy Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah Phone Wasatch 3123 VOL. XV JULY, 1928 NO. 7 Usha MARY ANN LEACH ADAMS THE Relief Society Magazine Vou. XV JULY, 1928 No. 7 Mary Leach Adams A Pioneer of Parowan By Fay Ollerton Mary Ann Leach Adams! I remember her only as a vague, bent figure who sat in a high-backed chair and waved a palm leaf fan. She always carried a bag of peppermints in the copious pockets of her full black skirt, and I have never been able to disassociate the smell of her candy from aged things and quiet, darkened corners. In our red plush-covered album there is a picture of her: a sweet-faced elderly woman with intelligent eyes set far apart in her face and soft folds of gray hair parted in the middle and drawn loosely over the sides of her head in the fashion of long hair today. On the night she died I slept alone and cried for someone to stay with me. These few memories, coupled with the spicy odor of carnations—brought all the way from Salt Lake to Parowan in the cold of winter for her funeral—are the only recollections that survive in me. Yet she was once a tall, beautiful girl with the black hair and blue eyes of her native Ireland; a girl unafraid and generous, who dared to leave a fine home for the rigors of an ill-reputed religion and an unknown country. Accompanied by her husband, two small sons, and a few other families, she made the slow trek by oxen from Ilinois to Salt Lake a few months before the gold rush. Not much later she was one of the first white women to leave the comparative safety of Salt Lake for the dangers and isolation of Southern Utah. Here she raised a family of five tall sons and three daughters, all God-fearing and obedient, but daring to think and act for themselves. Of the slim pioneer woman who saw the red mud wall rise about the ten-acre fort on Center Creek and soon to be called Parowan, I have heard much; but the girl back in County Down 350 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE is harder to see. My grandfather, William Adams, wrote in his autobiography only this: "On the — day" (how true to his sex that he forgot the exact day), "I took to me Mary Ann Leach to be my wife. She was a bonnet maker by trade and carried on the business in Hillsborough." Not one word that she was the daughter of a man in comfortable circumstances, a girl, who at twenty, tired of nothing to do in a servant-cared-for home, and in a manner quite of the twentieth century, left her parental roof to learn the ways of independence—and 'incidentally bonnet making. Whether she was a good milliner in her short apprenticeship I have never heard. I know that she forsook the trade willingly enough when a serious and good young man of her new faith came along and preached the necessity of marriage. Perhaps, after all, bonnet making was not her solemn purpose in life. She was to make plenty of them in the years to come, but they were destined to be of calico. At any rate, she came away with the young man and sailed for the adventurous states on the bark, "Fanny." While she waited in Liverpool, a fortune-telling woman warned her that if she stepped on this same "Fanny" in quest of the godless religion, she would never again see land. This prediction made no difference to my intrepid grandmother. She was unafraid in her faith (as one of her descendants I believe the prospects of the adventurous life in the new world had something to do with her decision) and only waxed in confidence when at a farewell meeting of the Saints in Liverpool another woman arose and promised that Sister Mary Ann would have one of the shortest and safest voyages ever made up to the year 1843. And there, in my grandfather's record, is a note of five weeks from Liverpool to New Orleans to prove the trueness of the prophecy. Five weeks with only three days of wind blowing against the "Fanny," and New Orleans in the Spring! What Mary Ann thought of that picturesque city, I do not know. She may have been too busy caring for her lusty son to have many impressions; but William wrote:”'New Orleans is a wonderful city for negroes and mules, mud and cotton. And what astounded me was the amount of cigars that were strewn on the sidewalks, some one-half to three-quarters used, and many that were not used." He was half Scotch, and she was soon to learn his thrifty ways. It was the long voyage from the coast city to Nauvoo, the beautiful, in the "Maid of Iowa," partly owned by the Prophet. That I have heard of. The voyage was one of mishaps and persecutions and took as long a time as the "Fanny" did in crossing the Atlantic. Also it was a time to test the mettle of the future pioneer woman. Part way up the river, the supplies and MARY LEACH ADAMS 351 money gave out; fire was set to the boat by enemies; and fever held her husband to his bed. Once she was obliged to join a group of women and go begging along the shores. Beg! When she was more used to commanding and claimed descent from a princess! But of the ending she was one with her husband when he said: "I cannot express the joy and pleasure we enjoyed in first beholding the city of Nauvoo, where we could see the prophet of God, and we were not disappointed." They were not disappointed, and young William had ten cents in his pockets—his wife a few silk dresses from Belfast. Hard times were before them. "I had worked on the Temple four weeks," wrote my grandfather, who was anxious to keep his family within the sound of the Prophet's voice, "and received no pay, so very little tithing had been taken at the Temple door. By selling and trading some of our clothing and other things that we could best do without, I was enabled to buy shorts from Brother Newell Knight, who owned a small grist mill on the banks of the Mississippi River. This might be considered hard fare by those who had been brought up on the very finest of flour; we were Satisfied to have enough of that and not complain, as it was the desire of our hearts to serve God and keep his commandments in adversity and prosperity." Yet when they left Nauvoo my grandfather turned the key on "as comfortable a little home as a woman would care to have." Evidently the keeping of commandments prospered them. Because of the perilous conditions of living at Nauvoo after the martyrdom, and the increased difficulties of saving money for the Western migration, William wandered about Illinois as a carpenter, a stone quarrier, and a laborer at the state capitol in Springfield. Mary Ann stayed with him and by May, 1849, in less than two years, they, by being "very saving with our means," had nearly five hundred dollars. Though the routine of housework still irked her, she was fast learning thrift, and she carried some of her Belfast gowns on that summer's trek over the Plains and Rockies. Once in Salt Lake, she set up housekeeping in a log cabin. The first spring she aided her husband in the planting of four acres of wheat. That little green patch in the gray wastes was all they could count on to carry them through the second winter. One day William came reluctantly into the cabin. The seed he had planted was a winter grain and the crop was useless. I am not certain what she said to him. She was high-spirited and quick of tongue—after the true Irish style—and she was thinking of her children. If she reproached him, she told him in the next breath that he had not been responsible and that "somehow" they would manage. Then she reminded him that due to
352 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
his foresight back in Illinois they still had a few provisions and tradeable things left from the immigration. It was no balm to the young couple that the gold rush was at its height in a short time and flour sold for twenty-five dollars a hundred pounds and was scarce at that. In the fall of 1850, Brigham Young arose in Conference to say that men had been chosen to develop Southern Utah, where vast wealth in iron lay. William was among the number, and his wife waited just long enough for him to build a log cabin and plant some grain before she joined him. The valley with its red and purple hills, silver sage, and pale strip of a lake, was not the abode she had dreamed of when she left her green Ireland; but she did not speak of turning back. Of her coming, Grandfather wrote: "It was a great relief to me, as I had been keeping batch seven months with Samuel Hamilton." After this settlement in Parowan, times were never so hard again. Only one year contained real hardships—real hardships meaning danger of dying from exposure or lack of food—and that was in '55, when the grasshoppers destroyed all the crops in the Territory. But Mary Ann and William, with their same keen foresight, had purchased a large supply of wheat from a family bound for the gold fields of California. The whole community came to appreciate their deal. From now on there were many partings between my grandparents. William was off to start the plowing along the Rio Virgin; to cut granite for the mother Temple; now to provide strongholds in that suspense-holding year of '57; and then for a long mission back to the States. While he was gone, my grandmother supervised her sons and saw that the growing lands and flocks did not suffer. She taught her daughters to knit, cord and spin, to cook and to sew tastefully—and to wash dishes. They were never to be handicapped as she had been. And above all, she taught her children to be scrupulously honest and to love work. Many things she knew were lacking in their lives, and she did her best to supply the vacancies. Always an avid reader, she urged her children to appreciate the things she did. Mail then was an infrequent thing at the best, but she subscribed for the old Saturday Evening Post, the New York Ledger, Harpers' Weekly, The Deseret Evening News, and a boy's magazine. When these periodicals came the whole family gathered around the hearth while someone read aloud the fate of the continued heroine. It was a keen disappointment to her that her children could not be educated as her brothers had been. She sent her boys and girls down the north street to the log school house, where they learned declamations out of McGuffey's Reader, and spelling
MARY LEACH ADAMS 353
from the blue-back, but she could do no more until her youngest son was becoming a long-legged adolescent. He was a boy of gentle manners and inclined to be studious. As he grew older, she hoarded the money from her yellow butter and white eggs to pay his board at the University in Salt Lake. Later, with the aid of his brothers, she sent him to a famed Eastern school. One of the greatest joys of her life came when he returned to Salt Lake and became an able and loved lawyer of that city. Although she loved her other children unselfishly, he was her "good boy." As she was ambitious for her children's education, so she was solicitous that they be reared in a home of pleasant surroundings. For a long time she was forced to be content with the few pieces of furniture her son James brought home with him from his expeditions across the Plains, and the rough work of the PUMI—local for Parowan United Manufacturing Institution, if my memory has not failed me. One autumn she made great quantities of soft soap—and no woman, unless she has her beginning in pioneer times, can realize the labor that meant. When the soap was done, she took her son Hugh for a driver and set out on the two-hundred and fifty mile drive to Salt Lake. In the city the hardest task—the peddling from house to house—still confronted her. But the woman and the boy drove over the city streets in their homespun clothes, and when the last of the soap was gone, they went to the old Dinwoodey's. The green upholstered furniture that they carried over the rough roads was a pride and comfort for many years. It was "Mother's furniture" and treated as such. With hospitality she was lavish. The fall and spring caravans of Brigham Young on his way to and from Dixie, were the eventful days. Her house was always overflowing with beds and food supplies, and she listened to the talk she had hungered for. Daniel Wells was one of the favorites she entertained. No traveler from the old country, pioneer or tramp, was ever denied welcome. Anyone speaking the brogue of North Ireland was entertained in the same way that she would have entertained the president of the Church. The many friends Mary Ann and William had made in their pilgrimages about the country seldom failed to seek them out. The boys of the Nauvoo Legion made the Adams home their place of rest when they came south. And visiting in those days of slow speed was no simple luncheon or overnight affair. Energy and ambition did not fail her, even when a sickness in middle age confined her to the adobe house that had been built in front of the log one. While she was able, she and William were among the first at the town dances, dressed in the finest they could afford and accompanied by the children. Dancing was not then a half night's entertainment. People came in the afternoon and stayed until daybreak. And the family didn't lie in bed next morning either.
354 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
But even the vigor of a pioneer woman who has given her life to battling with the elements and rearing children to meet the conditions she has placed them in, gives out. When she was eighty years old, she died, content to go, and her children about her. Much that she had wanted, life had denied her. In the face of privation she had struggled to keep from compromises and to maintain her pride intact and bright. Though most of her sons and daughters have joined her, she is still a power among her grandchildren and great grandchildren, most of whom she has not seen. "You have the look or a mannerism of Grandmother Adams," is the highest compliment any girl of her family can receive. The shadowy figure is potent yet.
Sagebrush
By A. C. Sorensen
There's a place out West where sagebrush grows, A valley wide where the wild wind blows, And my thoughts are ever there.
The gray sage calls and I want to go Back where it grows, for I love it so, Where its strong scent fills the air.
Today, out there I would like to be, Where free winds play o'er the wide, gray sea Of the sagebrush there on the plain.
There are times it seems I can smell it here— When the sun goes down and the stars appear— As it smells just after a rain.
The city breezes are scented with rose And tropical flowers; but I'd give all those For one sage breath, wild and free.
The pinyon pines and the junipers grow, And sego lilies on the hill-sides blow, In that valley where I would be.
Tonight, 'neath the stars I have made my bed. I rest on the earth, all my longings have fled— I'm back; no more will I roam.
There is peace where I lie, for sage scents the air, It caresses and soothes me, dispelling all care. The sagebrush has called me home.
Robbed by Wolves
A True Story
(An incident in the life of President Heber J. Grant's father, Jedediah M. Grant.)
By Carter E. Grant
"Oh sing me a song of the mountain peaks, Or sing of the canyons deep; Yes, sing me a song, ye west winds, sing As I lie 'neath the stars to sleep."
Note: Those wishing to know more about the thousands of homeseekers that passed ahead of the Mormons over the Oregon Trail and Northwest from Fort Bridger should read, Trans Mississippi West, by Goodwin, pp. 310-321. Also, Economic Beginnings of the Far West, by Corman, p. 163—Public Library or U. Of U.
The late August sun had browned to a frazzle the prairies of western Nebraska. The huge caravans moved on over the "Dead Lands" of eastern Wyoming slumbering in summer silence. The arid country had now become a white and yellow clay-belt. The early bunch-grass which had served well the Utah and Oregon caravans had now withered into stump-like sticks. A hundred twenty-five miles westward from Fort Laramie, where the Platte swings off due south, the Oregon trail takes a south-westerly line across alkali flats toward Independence Rock on the Sweet Water River, some 838 miles from Independence, Missouri, and some hundred miles from South Pass. On this "No Man's Land" of rumpled wastes and deceiving distances, among the alkaline swales and bluffs and ravines, our story opens, with Captain Jedediah M. Grant's huge company in the very heart of their one-thousand-mile trek toward the unknown place to which Brigham Young had headed his earlier company. June, July and August could each tell a grim story of the long days of summer travel. For the first time the Rockies began rising out of the distance. Toward them, they were bound. Into their very midst they would go, seeking an abode 'neath towering peaks where their inspired prophet should declare, "This is the place!" This second exodus was a modern Israel! A string of wagons number 580, drawn by 2,213 oxen and 124 horses. Herded along with all, were 887 cows, 358 sheep; fastened to the wagons were coops containing 716 chickens and 35 hogs. Somewhat mixed in
*Lariat, June, 1925—George F. Herrick, Salt Lake writer.
356 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
with this grand melody of prattling hens and crowing roosters, bleating sheep and lowing oxen, neighing steeds and bawling cows, bellowing calves and squealing pigs, were 1,553 human souls; men, women and children, all doing their level best to enjoy the scorching scenery and the scanty rations, doled out morning, noon, and night. Although there were many divisions, captains and supervisors, still upon the head leaders rested problems of constant worry and generalship. As most of the pilgrims, tanned and tired, trudged tediously in step with the toiling teams, too tired and jaded to travel far or fast—the caravan at its best proved a slow one. And now that the host was in the midst of alkaline and brackish watering places, repugnant and offensive, almost poisonous to man and beast, this slowness of itself, rapidly developed dangers not to be trifled with. More than 5000 Oregon Immigrants, with their flocks and herds, had already passed this way; and as spruce and pine during the winter season but emphasize the nakedness of the other trees, so the signs of early grass and fire-wood spoke, advisedly, confirming Brigham Young's declaration, "Follow us as soon as possible; late companies are bound to suffer." Not alone were grass and fire-wood gone, but on every hand lay the remains of poorly equipped Oregon companies which had been passing over the trail for the past four years. I now quote from Parkman, who spent considerable time on the Oregon Trail in the late "40's." In these years, when this host of emigrants went over the trail, it became littered with bedding, stoves, furniture, trunks—all thrown away by travelers to lighten their load. One may yet sometimes see the scattered wreckage of ancient claw-footed tables, well waxed and rubbed; or massive bureaus of carved wood. These, some of them, no doubt, the relics of ancestral prosperity in colonial days, must have encountered strange vicissitudes. Brought, perhaps, originally from England; then, with the declining fortunes of their owners, borne across the Alleghanies to the wilderness of Ohio and Kentucky: then to Illinois or Missouri; and now at last fondly stowed away for the interminable journey to Oregon. But the stern privations of the way are little anticipated. The cherished relic is thrown out to scorch and crack on the hot prairie." With profusion, lavishly piled on, had the former companies left their dead animals strung through these miles of alkaline stretches. Where the sick animals fell, there they were left to die, while the following outfits steered their sniffling oxen past the various carcasses. The water, the
*Parkman, The Oregon Trail, Little, Brown and Company—Public Library, also U. Of U. Library. Also see "The Great Trail" in The Pathbreakers From River to Ocean, Hebard, The Lakeside Press, Chicago. All Libraries.
ROBBED BY WOLVES 357
trail and camping places, were excessively contaminated by these dead beasts which were now putrefying in the boiling sun. My grandmother, Susan, who later became the wife of President Jedediah Morgan Grant, was then a black-eyed, plump and jolly Miss of fifteen summers. As her adopted father, Bates Nobles, was a body guard to the Prophet Joseph, Susan had sat upon the Prophet's knee many times and had listened with burning interest to wonderful statements regarding Zion and its future. More than once she had carried secret messages from the Prophet after he had written them and pinned them in her clothes, saying, "Susan, carry this to Hyrum. Guard it with your life." Well, as she was here in this company, I shall give you the first-hand story as she has many times told it to us children. (Note: Grandmother died when I was about thirty years of age, so my information is not childish memory.) We shall not go back to Nauvoo or Winter Quarters even, but start right here in the first week of September. "Oh," she would exclaim, "that smell was terrible, especially when it was seasoned with the nasty water. It was enough to kill us all—man and beast. Even to this day, at the scent of carrion, I am carried backward to those days on the plains. We didn't blame the travelers ahead of us so very much, for we could do but little better for those who were to follow us, but we did, however, drag off all dead critters from the camping places." "My, how we boys and girls worked day after day to keep our cows and sheep from taking too large a dose at one time of this brackish water. The weather was so hot, though, and the animals increased in their thirst by the salty country, that in spite of our poundings and pleadings, they would gorge themselves upon the morbific, soap-bubbley stuff and then almost immediately begin being sick. An epidemic of cholera had broken out, spreading first among the animals and then attacking the people, especially the children. As the days passed and the conditions grew no better, the malady increased in severity. I remember one afternoon when our best milch cow stretched out and died. This was the first of our animals to go. All through camp, oxen, horses, sheep, pigs, and even the chickens were affected alike. As the human sick list grew, greater loads were added to the weary cattle. Oh, it was just terrible! The vomiting and purging and knife-like cramps that sapped the vitality in just a few hours, bringing some of the strongest to the wagons and keeping them there for days and finally leaving them pale and weak. "But hope was before us; Sweet Water, they declared, was just a day or so ahead. This was a clear, sparkling river running eastward from the Rockies. As our wagon was close to Captain Grant's, I remember how worried he was and how he prayed
358 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
at our evening meetings that the animals and people would be spared to reach our new home in the mountains. But I guess, he didn't pray much harder'n some of the women folks, for they had charge of a number of the outfits, hitching and unhitching the oxen and waiting on the sick as well. You see, their husbands and oldest sons, having left the year before with the Mormon Battalion, were now fighting to help bring into the Union the land toward which we were headed. Brigham Young was so sure that all the country westward would belong to the United States, that he kept your grandfather from joining the first company by sending him east on important business; instructed him to buy material for a huge Stars and Stripes flag that should wave over our new homes toward the Pacific. This cloth was later made into the Mammoth Flag that waved for years over Salt Lake City. "Just next to us, in the daily line of march, was Eliza R. Snow, Levi Edgar Riter and his wife Elizabeth. I speak of Sister Riter because, about the first of June, just as we were preparing to leave Winter Quarters, her baby Elizabeth was born. Most of us thought she would stay and come the next year, but she told her husband, 'No, sir. Fit up the tires and make ready. I can travel the day they start.' This baby, you may know, became the mother of Levi Edgar Young. "As I was saying, we were close to Captain Grant. His wife Caroline, was exceptionally kind to me, inviting me often to fix our supper with her. Then in the evening, as I helped tend Sister Grant's two little girls, Caroline, two years, and Margaret, six months, I was regularly charmed with Brother Grant's talks, many of which were from his experiences with the Prophet Joseph. At times, as he spoke, he seemed to be so filled with the inspiration of heaven, that all present thrilled with emotions of testimony. We young people often had the chance to express our own feelings in these little meetings about the prairie camp fires. Oh, children, you do not know how happy we were, even during these severe days of hardest trials! As young as I was, I knew the Gospel had been restored. More than once I had heard Joseph declare that our Heavenly Father and his Son Jesus, the resurrected Savior, had come and talked with him. To this day this testimony has never left me. And when I am gone, I want you to tell this to your children and grandchildren. "Let me stop here," begged grandmother, "for the next part of the story is so sad." But at our request she continued: "In spite of our faith and prayers, while we were still in the saleratus country, several children died. Think of holding a little short service, moving forward and leaving the fresh mound in the dim distance. Mothers' hearts were almost broken at such trials. "Sorrow now visited our Captain's wagon. As Sister Grant had not been very well for several days, little Margaret got the
ROBBED BY WOLVES 359
cholera and by sundown she was seized with violent spasms. I was so worried, I stayed close by their wagon while I took care of "Caddie," as we all called the oldest girl. As night came on, Margaret grew worse. About mid-night I was sent to my bed, but later as I looked out, I could still see the parents, accompanied by Sisters Snow and Riter and Brother and Sister Noble, working with the child by the fire on the sheltered side of their wagon. "The hot weather had brought on a thunder storm, the first for days. A terrible wind was springing up from the west, driving the lose clay-dust before it. In just a few minutes the downpour was upon us. The fires sizzled briefly and were forced out; everyone hurried for shelter. The gale, resembling a hurricane, roared through the country with terrific speed, bringing sheet-like columns of rain in alarming force against the wagon. Several tents were toppled over and almost blown away, while the drenched occupants in their night clothing raced to safer abodes. The storm seemed to be coming from the mountains. After a little it slackened, yet it kept up most of the night. Worried but weary, I finally went off to sleep. The next morning when I awoke, the sun was shining brightly on my wagon cover. Margaret flashed immediately into my mind. I quickly sat up. No one else had been to bed in our wagon. I was ashamed that I had gone to sleep. Outside I could hear low voices, and I learned that we were to move on to the Sweet Water before making breakfast. Just then, from the wagon next to ours, I heard little Caddie calling, half lonesome-like, for her mother. I was only half dressed but I was soon ready, and scrambling out, stood for a moment looking about from the wagon tongue. One quick glance and I read part of the sorrow the night had left behind. Over on the side of a rolling clay hill about a stone's throw away, and half surrounded by people, principally women, was a new little mound. Nearer me, the men were busy in the slippery clay, hitching up the cattle for moving. Climbing quickly into Sister Grant's wagon, I threw myself by the side of Caddie, sobbing as only a heart-broken girl can. After a little, I heard the folks returning. Then, as I waited, I thought of that cold burial, and I knew there had been no material for a box of any sort—oh, it was terrible! "Brother Grant's animals were now hitched to his wagon. I then heard Brother Riter suggest quietly, 'Brother Grant, Sister Riter will ride with Caroline and Caddie this morning. Caroline is not well and must be relieved from all care and further worry.' As I softly climbed from the wagon, Brother and Sister Grant saw me. Sister Grant exclaimed, 'Oh, Susan!' and throwing her arms around me, she gave expression to her feelings, weeping as if her heart would break. "That morning as we moved forward, the trail proved heavy
360 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
and slippery. Every swale and gully was chokeful of mud and debris, forced there by the storm of the night before. The air this morning, though, was cool and invigorating. Such a wonderful change naturally revived our spirits. By noon we were on the Sweet Water. The Bad Lands, like a departing night-mare, lay grim in the distance. A much needed rest, with plenty of good feed for the animals and a river of clear, fresh water for all, revived the sick and again set us thinking of the mountains. "Just as darkness flees before the morning's dawning, so our griefs were turned, all of a sudden, to the greatest, unexpected joys experienced on the whole trip. It seems that this sort is the kind that takes one most by storm and causes one to lose himself in their gripping hold. About noon (Sept. 8), like messengers from another world, there came riding into camp from the West a number of the quorum of the Twelve with Brigham Young at the head. Following them, were their well equipped outfits. They had found us a home by the inland sea they declared, and were now on their way back to Winter Quarters to lead out in the general movement in the early spring wherein thousands of people would make their way westward. You should have seen the meeting of your grandfather and Brigham Young and Heber C. Kimball; why, they just hugged each other like youngsters; Heber and Jedediah were not counselors to Brigham then, but they were later. You see, Brigham was not sustained as president until after they arrived back at Winter Quarters. "For two days the brethren stayed with us, holding meetings and giving instructions. We all made the most of their visits, knowing that almost a year would pass before we should see them again. Then one morning we had some Indian trouble. While we were off guard, a dashing band of mounted Indians rushed down upon our horses, uttering long shrill cries, getting 40 or so of our animals, and hurried them off toward the Platte. More than 200 of our horsemen followed, including most of our visiting brethren, for about 20 of their horses were in the stolen band. Only five animals were recovered. As President Young's company had a number of extra horses, they had enough to make up their needs and to help us also. Time for separation now arrived. With all outfits hitched and ready for travel, some east, others west, we bade each other a hearty farewell, and were on our way. "The trail from here to South Pass, a hundred miles or more, was all up grade, but after this splendid rest we moved forward rapidly. Sister Grant was so improved that she walked a little each day. Most of the other sick were rapidly gaining in
*Those seeking details should read Life of Wilford Woodruff, by Cowley, 1909—Deseret Book Store, Public Library. See especially pp. 321-323.
ROBBED BY WOLVES 361
strength. We had heard so much of South Pass that we thought, of course, a dangerous and difficult climb was before us. One can hardly imagine our surprised feeling when we found the continental divide a long, broad, easy upland valley with splendid trails. It was hardly believable until we saw the waters of the Sandy running westward toward Green River. "As our hopes were now flying high, many a teamster shouted, including the women. All felt they had a right to be happy, looking forward and not backward. As our wagons rolled easily along, all joined in singing many a trail song. I'll sing you two or three, but of course I can't make them thrill you as they did us in those days:
"Cheer up, brothers, as we go over the mountains westward ho, Where herds of deer and buffalo furnish the fare."

"We'll stay on the farm and we'll suffer no loss, For the stone that keeps rolling will gather no moss."
"Oh, wife, let us go; oh, don't let us wait, I long to be there and I long to be great; While you, some fair lady; and who knows but I May be some rich Governor long 'fore I die."
"Our soaring spirits were soon to return, however, and hug the ground in silence; for joys seem to ebb and flow with sorrows ever present. In just a few days, mountain fever had confined a great number to their wagons. It was with difficulty that the sick could ride forward at all, for the roads became but trails, rough and difficult. Brigham Young had warned us that at the first sign of the mountain sickness, we were to use plenty of composition, cayenne, and vegetable pills. These were to assist in breaking the fever. Brother Young told us of his sickness, of the distressing pain that throbbed in his head, and at the same time the trouble that settled in his back and various joints of his body. When the fever ceased, cold chills were followed by hot flushes that tended to make him almost mad with pain. Brigham Young declared that he was delirious for most of two days; and that this was the reason why he had to follow into the valley two days behind the foremost of the trail-breakers. "Sister Grant, full of faith and hopeful determination, fought off the first signs of the fever, but as she was weakened from the effects of cholera and deep sorrow, back it came with alarming consequences. It was with difficulty now that we could travel at all. Friday night it was decided that part of the camp was to lay over Saturday as well as Sunday, that the others should move forward and during Saturday, as they progressed, help make the
362 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
roads better. By Monday we were sure all would again be on their way. "As Sister Grant's condition became rather critical Saturday, she and her bed were gently transferred to a tent that was set up near by. Sunday brought a higher fever and complete delirium. For the first Sunday on our long journey, there was no singing, preaching, or music heard in camp. These were replaced by fasting and prayer for Caroline's recovery. As your grandfather was a very sympathetic man, this grief, added to the worry and sorrows of the past, was almost more than he could bear. Sisters Riter and Snow and the menfolks always stayed close at hand, rendering assistance whenever possible. Brother Grant often took Caddie from me, hugging and kissing her while the tears ran down his face. "During the evening of Sunday, as I sat near the fire at the tent door with little Caddie on my lap, I watched carefully the language expressed in the eyes of the attendants. Later on when the child went to sleep, I was quietly taking her toward my wagon to tuck her away from the cool mountain air, when Sister Snow caught up to me, and as she handed me a shawl, she exclaimed a little anxiously, 'No, don't take her away.' Not until then did it really dawn upon me that there seemed to be no hope. Wrapping the shawl about me and the sleeping child, I sat waiting in silence. About mid-night Sister Grant rallied a little and whispered, 'Susan—Caddie.' I sprang up so quickly when I was called that I waked the little girl, who opened her big eyes and stared about on every side. In a moment we were both by the bed, while Caddie kissed her mama and tried to huddle into the covers. Sister Grant looked at us knowingly, then as she contentedly closed her eyes again and seemed to be sinking, I heard her whisper to Jedediah, 'All is well! All is well! Please take me to the valley—Jeddy. Get Margaret—bring her—to me!' Brother Grant answered tenderly and meaningly as he sobbed with sorrow, 'Yes, yes, Caroline. I'll do my best. I'll do my best.' "During the night the sisters prepared the body in the very best manner possible and the Brethren made a box from one of the top beds of the wagon; and with the first dawn of daylight we were hurrying toward the Valley, which was reached three days later on the evening of the 29th. Here the whole group was thrown into intense sorrow, as Caroline had been with the Church almost from the beginning. The services were held that evening, and early the next morning, the first white woman to be buried in the Valley was quietly laid at rest.* "After two or three days resting, Jedediah and Bates Noble
*Caroline Ann Vandyke was born January 16, 1818, was married to Jedediah M. Grant July 2, 1844. She was 29 years old when she died. At this time Jedediah was but 31.
ROBBED BY WOLVES 363
made ready to fulfill the remainder of Caroline's last request. Back they would go through long dangerous canyons, over hills and mountains—back to the Sweet Water—past Independence Rock and out to that lonely little clay mound. The child should be brought to its mother—'Yes, yes, Caroline. I'll do my best.' "Little did they realize as they anxiously began that long journey, how sad would be the ending. 'At Bear River,' as Uncle Bates has often told it, 'again we camped. As we sat there alone at night by our little camp fire in the very heart of the Rockies, after meditating in silence for some time, Brother Jedediah turned and requested, 'Brother Bates, let's have a hymn or so.' After a number had been sung, Jedediah said, 'Now sing 'God moves in a mysterious way his wonders to perform'.' As we finished:
"Blind unbelief is sure to err, And scan his works in vain; God is his own interpreter, And he will make it plain."
Brother Grant sat with bowed head for some time, then he looked up and, glowing with his former inspiration, which I had not seen upon him for some time, declared in a firm voice which always characterized his unwavering testimony, "Bates, God has made it plain. The joy of Paradise where my wife and baby are together, seems to be upon me tonight. For some wise purpose they have been released from the earth struggles into which you and I are plunged. They are many, many times happier than we can possibly be here. This camping ground should be the saddest of all sad places to me, but this night it seems to be close under heaven." As Jedediah spoke, there vibrated into my bosom a feeling that comes only under the inspiration of heaven. Then we knelt in prayer; Brother Grant being mouth. It seemed to me that no human soul could have listened to his words and doubted that he talked to his Father in heaven; doubted that the Gospel of Jesus Christ had been restored and that Joseph Smith was divinely chosen; doubted that Caroline and Margaret were with their Heavenly Father in celestial glory. This incident alone was enough to have converted me had I been the least bit of a "doubting Thomas." "Early the next morning we were again on our journey. Generally we chatted, at other times we rode silently forward; in these moments I often wondered if we should find the little mound as we had left it. It was not the Indians that I feared so much as the prairie wolf. Once or twice during those long days, Jedediah dropped a word or two that also showed his anxiety. Our apprehensions were multiplied at our camp the first night on the Sweet Water. Here two graves left by Oregon companies had been ruthlessly pilfered.
364 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
"Another day or so and we were at the end of our eastward journey. As we intended making it back to Sweet Water for the night, we stopped our rig in the trail of the saleratus camping grounds where just a month previous a terrible night had been spent in a driving thunder storm. We now stepped forward, carrying the box and shovels. A few paces from the little grave we stopped hesitatingly, set down our things and stood with eyes fixed before us. Neither tried to speak. An ugly hole replaced the small mound; and so recently had the wolves departed that every sign was fresh before us. I dared not raise my eyes to look at Jedediah. From the way I felt, I could but guess his feelings. Like statues of the wilderness we stood. Grown to the spot, each fully realizing that nothing more could be done. After several minutes of silent tears, we quietly withdrew, carrying away again only that which we had brought. Then, as we silently rode westward toward the mountains, there seemed to echo in my soul from a distant tent in the mountains, 'All is well, All is well! Take me to the valley, Jeddy. Get Margaret—bring her to me.' Then the earnest sad reply, 'Yes, yes, Caroline. I'll do my best. I'll do my best!'"
Pioneer Memoriam
By Eloise A. McClure
Deep in the heart of God's garden, Heart of the Golden West, Flag of our nation they planted, Flag that their fathers blest.
Cresting the vast, templed Rockies, Breathing a peaceful sea, Stars and stripes fluttered Heav'nward, Land of the wondrous free!
Over the mountains and valleys, Desert and wasting plain, Blazed they the trail for great highway, Reaching to bounding main.
Opened the doors of earth's wonders, Vaults of the ages unsealed, Treasures long buried and hidden, Locked in the deep, revealed.
Into the lap of the nation, Richest of wealth was rolled, Into the lives of the living, Happiness did unfold.
PIONEER MEMORIAM 365
Touched they with magic that scattered, Rivulets, laughing rills, Manned they the streams that were rushing, Steep from snow-crested hills.
Winding below to the valley, Barren and gloomy gray, Beauty so hidden transfigured, Wondrous in glad array.
Earth made to blossom like Heaven, Fairest of flowers grown— Valleys made rich and so fertile, Seeds in soil's bosom sown.
Theirs not to know what their dreaming, Labors unceasing wrought— Theirs not to garner with gleaming, Golden seeds sown of thought.
Harvest for us is to gather, Garner we now the store. Children of men who come after, Garner they all the more.
Forefathers dreamed of this Empire, Builded not in a day, Growing majestically onward, Great, as the years pass away.
Sleeping are they, 'neath the hillsides, Souls at rest 'neath the sod, Kissed by blossoms that bend when Winds of the Wasatch nod.
Resting from labors so fruitful, Heroes' work nobly done, Mustered to God is their spirit, Called to home, one by one.
Ever their names shall be written, Carved in this stone of gold, Ever their tale shall be blazoned, Flaming, their deeds be told!
Future creation achieving, Looks on this stone and reads Lessons of life's worthy battles, Lessons of noble deeds!
Rest Thou in Peace, Faithful Servants! Memories ever blest, Deep in the heart of God's garden, Heart of the Golden West.
Conference Address
By Mrs. May Booth Talmage Former President European Mission Relief Societies
My dear co-workers: I cannot express to you this afternoon the gratitude that is in my soul for this opportunity to speak to you about the work of the Relief Societies in the European Mission. I also desire to express my gratitude to my Heavenly Father for the opportunity that came into my life to go into the mission field as a representative of His Church. There may be some here who are not quite clear in their minds as to just what is meant by the European Mission. This is not just one among the many missions of the world, but comprises the ten missions established on the Eastern Hemisphere. They are the Armenian, the British, the Danish, the French, the German-Austrian, the Netherlands, the Norwegian, the Swedish, the Swiss-German, and the South African. Our northernmost branch is within the Arctic Circle, and we have several branches in South Africa. On the East, the Mission extends to Syria and Palestine, and on the West it includes the British Isles. The President of the European Mission has the responsibility of supervising the missions on the Continent, and he is also in direct charge of the British Mission, which comprises England, Scotland, Ireland and Wales, and within which area there are seventy branches of the Church, grouped into fifteen Districts; a grouping similar to that of the Stakes and Wards in Zion. The wife of the President of the European Mission presides over the Relief Societies of the European Mission and of the British Mission under the direction of her husband. We had the pleasure of visiting the Netherlands Relief Societies twice—once in 1925 when Sister Hyde was in charge of this work, and again in 1926, when the work was under the direction of Sister Lillywhite, as it is today. Excellent progress is being made, especially in Amsterdam and Rotterdam. In the latter place there were more than fifty women gathered at a branch meeting we attended, and it was marvelous to see how the women in this as in other distant countries were imbued with the true spirit of the work. Under the supervision of Sisters Cannon and Valentine, who plan their work together, the Relief Society activities in the Swiss-German and German-Austrian Missions are making tremendous strides. Meetings are held in commodious school buildings. The excellent magazine published by the two missions provides a medium of communication with members, and also space
CONFERENCE ADDRESS 367
for lessons. Many of the women are well educated, and give lessons or take part in the discussions with as great freedom as we do here. On the occasion of our first visit in 1925, when Sister Tadje was in charge, a splendid Relief Society conference was held in Berlin with four hundred people in attendance. We also held a meeting at Chemnitz at which more than five hundred were present. We were delightfully surprised to find at Breslau, on the Polish border of Germany, three fine Relief Societies. The amount and variety of clothing made and of fancy work done by these sisters and brought together for our inspection, was amazing. The work in Basel, Hamburg and other parts of the Swiss-German Mission is of the same high order. The Saints in the Scandinavian countries are handicapped by not having much of our Church literature translated. Their Relief Society meetings are conjoint and the brethren seem as anxious as the sisters to come to Relief Society on lesson nights, and donate to this worthy cause. They have a small magazine in which lessons translated from The Millennial Star are published. In Denmark there are three earnest organizations directed by Sister Ida Peterson. We found there a good attendance, a splendid spirit, and a most encouraging outlook. In Sweden, we attended a meeting in Gottenburg and a conference in Stockholm. In the latter place elaborate preparations had been made for the occasion. The Meeting-house was made beautiful with palms, ferns, smilax, and abundant flowers, and the local sisters in this, as in many other places, came for several days and prepared hot meals for all the missionaries in attendance. Sister Hulterstrom is now in charge of our work there. We went from Sweden to Norway and found four active societies in Oslo, Trondhjem, Narvik and Bergen. In the absence of President Christopherson's wife, the Relief work was being splendidly supervised by the Mission Secretary, Sister Borgheild Nielson, who was succeeded by the wife of President Anderson. In September, 1927, there was held in Dresden a four-day convention of Mission Presidents and their wives. The sisters met in separate sessions to discuss the Relief work, in an effort to standardize and unify it in the various missions as far as possible. The results should prove beneficial to future endeavor. Preceding and following this convention it was my great privilege to visit nine Relief Societies of the French Mission, some of which are in Belgium, some in France, and some in Switzerland. There, the growth and development of our work under the direction of Sister Venus R. Rossiter has been phenomenal, as was recently reported in detail in the Relief Society Magazine.
368 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
It was not my privilege to visit the Armenian and South African Missions, but I kept in touch with them. Sister Booth has been in the Armenian Mission five years. President Talmage visited Armenia and was amazed at the work they were doing. Down in South Africa, where Sister Sessions was in charge for seven years preceding the coming of Sister Martin, the work is in excellent condition. In the British Mission, over which I presided directly, we had fifty-nine branches. If you could see the struggles that some of these sisters make in order to do relief work, your hearts would go out to them in sympathy and blessing. I think I could safely say that 75% of them have to work outside their own homes to help support the families, and the meetings all have to be held in the evening. I think from one-third to one-half of our members are young girls, who, as young as fourteen, join and help. I have tried in every place to convey this message to the sisters, that they were not little isolated groups working alone, but part of this great sisterhood of women. I want to speak to you a few moments about the relationship of the Relief Society work to the missionary work—a problem of the greatest importance. When the missionaries go out they may know a great deal about the Mutual and are very willing to help in the Mutual work in the missions, but as a rule they know little more than the name of Relief Society, and they do not know anything about the wonderful work this organization is doing, unless they happen to come from homes where their mothers are presidents and officers. Let me tell you what happens to these young men when they go out in the field. Some of them have to take part in the activities of the branch; as branch president or district presidents, they have to look after all the affairs of the branch. They can make or mar a Relief Society. If they go there with the right attitude toward Relief Society work, they can give advice and counsel. All of our Relief Society officers are told they must work under the direction of the Priesthood. Some of these boys are only eighteen to twenty-one years of age. When there is a death, they have to work with the Relief Society sisters; they have to speak at the funerals. They have to work with the Relief Society people in trying to alleviate suffering and distress among the poor. They also give Relief Society lessons. I desire to thank my Heavenly Father again for the opportunity that was mine of knowing these excellent people in the world. I found some of the finest people I have ever met, living the gospel and helping to spread it, and I humbly pray for the continued success of the missionary work and the great Relief Society cause.
THE RELIEF SOCIETY OF THE CHURCH OF JESUS CHRIST OF LATTER-DAY SAINTS
Motto—Charity Never Faileth
THE GENERAL BOARD
MRS. CLARISSA SMITH WILLIAMS - - - - - - President MRS. JENNIE BRIMHALL KNIGHT - - - - - First Counselor MRS. LOUISE YATES ROBISON - - - - - - Second Counselor MRS. AMY BROWN LYMAN - - - - - General Secretary and Treasurer
Mrs. Emma A. Empey Mrs. Julia A. Child Mrs. Rosannah C. Irvine Mrs. Jeanette A. Hyde Mrs. Cora L. Bennion Miss Alice Louise Reynolds Miss Sarah M. McLelland Mrs. Julia A. F. Lund Mrs. Nettie D. Bradford Mrs. Annie Wells Cannon Mrs. Amy Whipple Evans Mrs. Elise B. Alder Mrs. Lalene H. Hart Mrs. Ethel Reynolds Smith Mrs. Inez K. Allen Mrs. Lotta Paul Baxter Mrs. Barbara Howell Richards Mrs. Ida P. Beal Mrs. Lizzie Thomas Edward, Music Director Miss Edna Coray, Organist RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Editor - - -: - - - Clarissa SMITH WILLIAMS Associate Editor - -:: -: Alice Louise Reyynolds Assistant Manager: - - - Amy Brown Lyman Room 28, Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah Magazine entered as second-class matter at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah Vol XV JULY, 1928 No. EDITORIAL The Century of the Death of Franz Schubert All over Europe last year Beethoven concerts were held and Beethoven exhibits were the order of the day. The great composer had been dead one hundred years. It is now just a century since Franz Schubert died; in the city of Vienna where he made his home, and where he is buried close to Mozart, Beethoven, Brahms, Suppe, and Strauss. There a hundred thousand people recently observed the occasion in an appropriate manner. This great song writer set music to three of Shakespear's poems, raising to heights otherwise unattainable the lines of the immortal bard. Who has not been thrilled with the music of "Who is Sylvia" and "Hark, Hark, the Lark," and where in all this world is there more lovely melody than in Schubert's "Serenade?" Where is there an ear that has been deaf to his "Song of Love?" It has been carried to thousands of ears and thousands of hearts in the musical comedy "Blossom Time." Schubert wrote a hundred songs of lyric sweetness; yet this man, who has made life so beautiful for us, during much 370 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE of his own life was practically penniless. When he had given up teaching, he was absolutely without means; for he could earn nothing by public performance and as yet no publisher would take his music as a gift. In this tragic hour he was saved by the loyalty of friends; one found him lodging; another provided him with appliances; and still others gave him meals. In the following language a critic of deep insight into Schubert's place among musicians tells us: "In clarity of style he was inferior to Mozart; in power of musical construction he was far inferior to Beethoven; but in poetic impulse and suggestion he is unsurpassed. He wrote always at headlong speed; he seldom blotted a line, and the greater part of his work bears, in consequence, the essential mark of improvisation: it is fresh, vivid, spontaneous, impatient of restraint, full of rich color and of warm imaginative feeling. He was the greatest song writer who ever lived, and almost everything in his hand turned to song." "Dryden, the English poet, in speaking of him said, 'Here is God's plenty! Music has always been the most generous of the arts, but it has never before or since poured out its treasure with so lavish a hand. " Women Voters We now and then run into an article decrying the enfranchisement of women, and stating that the nation is not receiving from women what sponsors of suffrage vouchsafed. Certain papers intimate, in very strong language, that suffrage is a failure. To these critics, both honest and dishonest, the onward march of events is furnishing some very potent replies. The first is supplied by the results of the recent election in Chicago which put out of commission the Thompson machine. Several years ago the women voters of that city, embarrassed by its notorious record of crime and corruption, sought to defeat Mr. Thompson for mayor. They organized a monstrous street procession and made other protests; yet Thompson and his corrupt machine won out. Recently another opportunity presented itself to cripple the power of this unsavory individual. The women, undaunted, worked on with increasing initiative and vigor. To undermine this power was a big job; but it was accomplished, and the press was generous enough to give the women credit for their part of the work. Papers all over the country published headlines stating - that "Chicago women voters had conquered the Thompson machine.” EDITORIAL 371  All decent people in the United States are grateful to the women for their decisive work, for seldom has America produced a public man of such power who has been so offensive to people who stand for right thinking and right living. All honor to the women of Chicago. A little later the League of Women Voters met in the city of Chicago and passed a resolution demanding prohibition enforcement and calling upon government officials to use every effort to make the 18th amendment to the Constitution thoroughly effective. In part the resolution reads: "Whereas, there has been no adequate enforcement of the amendment * * * the League calls upon the President of the United States, the Secretary of the Treasury, and all state and local officials, to use to the fullest extent the power conferred upon them for effective enforcement of prohibition." "Effort will be made to have both of the major political parties include a prohibition plank in their respective platforms that the matter may become more or less of an issue in the presidential campaign." Whoever is side-stepping the issue, it is not the women's organizations. Whoever is camouflaging or whitewashing or striving in any way to have black look white, it is not the organized womanhood of America. That an individual woman here and there gives voice to a point of view that is not in harmony with law and order is to be regretted; but it does not condemn American women who have put themselves unalterably and unmistakably upon record. During the whole of the struggle they have stood for law enforcement, for the 18th amendment and for maintaining the Constitution of the United States. July is the month when our attention is particularly attracted to the birth of our nation, when flags fly and rockets soar. Is it not incumbent at the moment that we shall see deeper than color and do more than rejoice in our birth? For the problem is not now "to have" but "to hold" the precious liberties vouchsafed to us through a Constitution that has been born at such a cost. Don't "Ring" The Hospital Summer is the time when accidents occur in an unusual number. This is to be expected. More cars are running about, people are vacationing all over the country, and the lakes and rivers are freely used for swimming. Dotted through this Western region are private hospitals that are run on the narrowest possible margin and that cannot afford large corps of people to do their administrative work. When an accident happens to somebody in one of these communities, it not infrequently happens 372 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE that the telephone is used to such an extent that the hospital administration is almost disrupted. A few days ago we listened to a lady who has been intimately connected with a hospital away from our largest centers who said that it is impossible for people to imagine what sometimes takes place in a hospital in case of accidents. The telephones are kept ringing so that the force of people that should be doing other things to relieve the sick are answering the telephones. The other patients in the hospital grow nervous and are disturbed by the constant ringing of bells; the whole institution may be upset. Of what value is it to zone a hospital and to ask persons driving cars to remain quiet while passing if persons in the community are so thoughtless as to disturb everything within the hospital by unwise use of the telephone? The best interest of friends is that which most truly considers the welfare of patients. It frequently happens that the worst thing that can be done for sick people is to visit them; and it now turns out to be true that one of the worst things that can be done for the sick is to use our modern appliances for inquiring too frequently. The Pioneer in Modern Literature We are pleased to be able to present to our readers a brief criticism of the outstanding pioneer literature of our period. In the May issue of the Magazine we published an interesting review of Giants of the Earth, by O. E. Rolvaag, which is a story of the Norwegian American immigrant. In the July issue we are presenting Carl Sandburg's Life of Abraham Lincoln. These reviews are written by Mrs. Lais Vernon Hales, a student of literature who is keenly interested in studies of pioneer life. We are sure that our readers are interested in new and good books in any line; and as pioneering forms so much of the background of American life and is so close to our Western life, we shall all be particularly interested in books that interpret it. Behind us is a veritable mine of rich material that will in the future be worked from many angles by writers of fiction. We are gratified at the present output, for it argues much for the future. Sarah Jenne Cannon By Annie Wells Cannon One by one the members of that great caravan of Utah pioneers who traversed prairie, plain, and mountain pastures to seek a refuge in the wilderness, turn their faces homeward to the land of eternal peace. For them the day is done; they have trekked the desert sands of life's long journey to the end of the way; but the radiant glow of life's setting sun casts its "line of light" along the silent past with pleasant memories and over the uncertain future with hopeful promise.. At noon-time on Mothers' Day, May 13, 1928, Sister Sarah Jenne Cannon, a beloved mother in Israel, passed to her last long sleep as she smilingly recognized tender messages from absent loved ones.: "Aunt Sarah Jane," as she was lovingly called, was in many respects a remarkable woman; and her unusual and unique traits of character caused her to be loved and revered not alone by her intimates, but by a host of friends. Her long life—a span of nearly eighty-nine years—was illumined with kindly service. She was. One of those whose greatness lies in walking nobly among the common things of life: the tasks of the pioneer woman— spinning, weaving, sewing, knitting, darning, gardening, baking, candle-dipping, soap-making—all these were dignified under her 374 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE hands—hands which were never idle. One of her favorite quotations was, "Do the duty that lies nearest;" and this she exemplified in her daily life. Nor did her industry diminish in later and more prosperous years; her war-time productions were quite wonderful; and it is believed that had she kept a record of her work, it would equal that of any one; so swiftly did her needles fly in the making of sweaters, socks, jackets, etc., for the soldier boys. Comparable with the industry of her hand was the industry of her fine mind. She was most fond of reading, especially the scriptures and the poets. Though advantages of education in early life had been as. Sparing as her living, she eagerly sought knowledge out of all good books and stored her mind with rich treasures of thought. Naturally she was an interesting conversationalist. As life had been so full of love most freely given, so in turn, when in advanced years she needed tender care it was abundantly hers. She died at the home of her son Preston and his sweet wife, Mabel, in beautiful Glendale, California, where flowers bloom all the year, and the air is pungent with the tang of brine from the waters of the great Pacific. Her funeral was held in the Eighteenth Ward Chapel, where, to her mortal remains surrounded by a mass of flowers, friends and loved ones paid their. Last tribute. Sister Sarah Jane Jenne Cannon was born September 11, 1839, in Camden, Upper Canada, where her parents had temporarily moved. From New York state. There they joined the Church and moved westward. They were at Nauvoo during the last years of the life of the Prophet Joseph Smith; and though but a child at the time of his martyrdom she remembered having heard him preach, and sensed the deep mourning of the people over his death. Her family were in the exodus from Nauvoo, coming to the valley of the Great Salt Lake in 1848. She walked all the way across the plains from the Missouri river. Her first home in the valley was in the Old Fort, now known as Pioneer Square. She was an attendant at the early schools and a member of the first Sunday School of the Church. On April 11, 1858, she was married to George Q. Cannon, by whom she had seven children, six sons and one daughter—the latter, Sister Rosannah C. Irvine, a member of the present General Board of the Relief Society. Aunt Sarah Jane manifested always a willingness to make any sacrifice required for the Gospel's sake. One notable instance occurred at the time of the "Move," when Johnston's Army came in 1858. Elder Cannon was placed in charge of the Church printing press and took it with his family to Fillmore. On the return trip he was met at Payson by a messenger from President Young with news that he had been called on a mission to the Eastern States and that the company of missionaries with whom SARAH JENNE CANNON 375 he was expected to cross the plains were to leave the following day. Within an hour he was on the way with the messenger, leaving the young wife by the roadside in care of his brother David—she was as staunch in supporting her husband in his obedience to the call as he was in fulfilling it. In his other missions which followed she endured much poverty uncomplainingly and supported herself and little ones with untiring industry, counting no requirement too severe in the cause of truth. Sister Cannon's Church activities were manifest in two directions—Temple work and Relief Society. When the Salt Lake Temple was opened in 1893 she was called as a worker therein and faithfully carried on that work over a period of twenty years, scarcely missing a day. During that time she performed baptisms and endowments for many of her kindred, thus opening the way for their salvation. A rare opportunity permitted her to be present at the dedication of the Hawaiian Temple. She was called upon to speak on that occasion, and bore a beautiful testimony. This privilege was a memorable' event in her life, as it was her husband, President George Q. Cannon, who introduced the Gospel in this land and she, like him, had a loving interest in the Hawaiian people. Sister Cannon's Relief Society work reaches over a long period of time and untiring devotion. She served as a ward teacher and as counselor in the Farmers Ward Society. She had to walk a distance of more than two miles over rough and muddy roads to attend meetings, and much farther to perform the tender visits of mercy required. At the organization of the Cannon Ward she was appointed president of the ward society, a position she held until her increased duties in stake work and on the General Board demanded so much of her time that she was released. As counselor to Sister Mary Isabella Horne in the Salt Lake Stake her talents for organization and regulation of the work proved of great value to that great leader among the women. Sister Cannon was a member of the General Board of the Relief Society under the presidencies of Zina D. H. Young, Bathsheba W. Smith, and Emmeline B. Wells. In 1898, following the death of Sarah M. Kimball, she held the position of third vice-president, in the General Board, an office discontinued after the death of Zina D. H. Young. Her Relief Society work was thoroughly performed, whether as a humble teacher or a high official. She traveled in its interest throughout the different stakes of Zion from Canada to Mexico, teaching and exhorting the sisters in the interest not only of the Relief Society but in their daily life as mothers and women of the Church., Gentle, merciful, and loving as she was during all her days, surely it may well be said of her: She fought the good fight; she finished her course; she kept the faith; henceforth there is laid up for her a crown of righteousness. Pioneers Abraham Lincoln; the Prairie Years By Lais Vernon Hales Essential to every American home is a sincere and honest book on the life of our greatest, most written about, and most loved American—Abraham Lincoln. Something like two thousand eight hundred books have been written about Lincoln, and from these we must choose the one that best presents him in his own true character. The real Lincoln is far finer and more lovable than the mythical one, and vastly more interesting. It takes greatness to perceive greatness. About Carl Sandburg, author of Abraham Lincoln; the Prairie Years, there is something of the vision, the aptitude, the sympathy, of a Lincoln. His book is the result of a half a lifetime of patient, loving investigation into the numerous letters, papers, speeches, and writings of Lincoln. In his preface Sandburg states that to understand Lincoln these documents must be "lived with and brooded over, scrutinized and forgotten, and then gone back to and searched again with all the gifts of imagination, intuition, experience, prayer, silence, sacrifice, and the laughter next door to tears." Sandburg's book covers the years from Lincoln's birth in 1809 until-the time when he left Springfield for Washington in 1860. Mr. Sandburg has realized that any good life of Lincoln must take into account all that went to the making of such a man— the background on which "the Lincoln life moved, had its rise and flow, and was moulded and moulded." His book is therefore not only the story of a life but the story of the environment in which it grew up and matured. We feel throughout the book the throb of imagination, the spread of population, the development of agriculture, industry, and finance, the coming of slavery, and the developing horizons of the new nation. The movement of the story is the movement of the pioneers ever pouring westward. It is never swift nor dramatic, but moves steadily, inevitably, on to the end, with its starkness and romance mixed and blended. It is a story of the "Biblical starkness," of the life of the pioneers with the wild flowers and the song of birds in the springtime, the log cabins, the Indians, the rustling corn whispering of the wonders of the wilderness, the quilting and the shucking bees, ' told against the background of the prairies of the West. And over it all is the figure of Abraham Lincoln absorbing and developing. Throughout the one hundred and sixty-eight chapters of this big book—big both in size and execution—we feel PIONEERS 377 the thousand and one things that went to make Lincoln in the first fifty-two years of his life what he was in the last four years as champion of our nation. Lincoln always much alone developing a "wilderness loneliness" which is like no other loneliness. "In the making of him as he was, the element of silence was immense," says Sandburg. Lincoln, son of a woman in whose heart burned the hope that beyond the harsh clay paths, the scrubbing, washing, patching, there were "pastures and purple valleys of song." Lincoln, seven out of the twelve months of every year, running with his foot soles bare against the clay of the earth, absorbing something of its hard and dark strength and perhaps some of its mystery. Lincoln, begging for books, walking miles to obtain them, and stating that his best friend was the man "who'll git me a book I ain't read." Lincoln and his love of Anne Rutledge and Mary Todd, both of whom left so deep a mark upon his heart. Lincoln as a struggling lawyer, to whom the smallest case was vital and interesting, for he was more interested in the study of human nature than in making money by law. And finally. Lincoln, as he left Springfield for Washington, to take hold of the affairs of a nation. Mr. Sandburg is a poet of the first degree and we find his book not only full of the poetry of the prairies but also of the poetry of a fine life nobly lived. He has fully understood the beauty of the life of Lincoln with all its lights and shadows. He has taken away nothing of the mystery of personality which was Lincoln's, yet he has forever taken him out of the field of myth. Even to the political life of Lincoln he has brought his poetic insight, making of this phase of Lincoln's life something rich and interesting. John Drinkwater, another great admirer of Lincoln, says of Sandburg's book, "It is not too much to say that Mr. Sandburg's book is an honor no less to the American people than to himself; it is, indeed, not unlikely that he will be found to have given the world the first great American Epic." Certainly he has given us the finest life of our great American Pioneer— Abraham Lincoln—of whom eh Markham wrote: The color of the eroded was in him, the red earth; The smack and tang of elemental things: The rectitude and patience of the cliff; The good-will of the rain that loves all leaves; The friendly welcome of the wayside well; The courage of the bird that dares the sea; The gladness of the wind that shakes the corn; The pity of the snow that hides all scars; The secrecy of streams that, make their way Under the mountain to. The rifted rock; The tolerance and equity. Of light 378 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE That gives as freely to the shrinking flower As to the great oak flaring to the wind— Here was a man to hold against the world, A man to match the mountains and the sea. * * * * * And when he fell in whirlwind, he went down As when a lordly cedar, green with boughs, Goes down with a great shout upon the hills, And leaves a lonesome place against the sky. Dear Sleeping Babe By Carrie Tanner Dear sleeping babe! A mother's heart with questioning love Would seek to know— What powers and possibilities are hid Within thy tender form? Is good endowed with kindly portion? What light will guide thy footsteps? Will thy heart crave honesty and truth? Ah, darling babe! What strife will come to vex or mar Thy destined way? Foul enemies—will they harm thee? Ah no—I pray, My precious babe! Will thy heart respond with love to kindly dictates: Ah, dear—dear—child! 'Tis then thy powers would unfold in Nature's way And be all that Heaven's love would have thee— My own dear babe! What are you, my dear—dear—babe? Ah! Who can tell? But oh! A mother's heart with tenderest love Would say: May thy path be bright With Heaven's own sunshine on thy way, Dear sleeping babe! MRS. HANNAH CHRISTENSEN AND HER HUSBAND Hannah Christensen In drawing a mental picture of the subject of this sketch we must see a little woman, barely five feet in height, quick, energetic and determined, but with a keen sense of humor and a cheery smile upon her face. Maren Johanna Rasmussen Christensen (familiarly known as Hannah (Christensen) was born on the island of Lolland, Denmark, Oct. 28, 1838, the daughter of Rasmus Christensen and Maria Jorgensen. From childhood she exhibited that independence of spirit which characterized her later life. When barely in her teens, at her home one day, a pig had been slaughtered, after which the family went into the house to eat breakfast. While the men ate, Hannah went out to take a look at the animal and seeing that it still showed signs of life, took up a butcher knife and finished the job to put an end to the creature's suffering. Having become a convert to the Gospel, she was called upon to choose between love and duty; for a worthy young man, whose wife she expected soon to become, could not see as she did in religious matters and their courtship ended. In 1864 she was baptized by Elder Ole H. Berg, and emigrated to Utah in 1866. In crossing the plains by ox train, much sickness was experienced by the emigrants and many died. Twenty-two women were 380 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE attacked with cholera at one time and of these only two survived, Hannah being one of them. It was while crossing the plains that her romance commenced, for in Captain Abner Lowry's company, which traveled with them part of the way, was a young man named Martin Christensen, and the two young people became acquainted. Hannah was still weak and Martin kindly held an umbrella over her as she lay sick, to protect her from the burning rays of the sun. Upon their arrival in Salt Lake City they again met and together proceeded to Mount Pleasant, Sanpete County, Utah, with other members of their companies. Here they were married by Bishop Seely and located at Fountain Green, becoming pioneers of that place. By hard work and frugality they were able to surround themselves with many comforts in spite of the ravages of grasshoppers and trouble with Indians. They built a two-room adobe house and secured a considerable amount of land. Brother Christensen bought a team and did freighting between Salt Lake City and their home, while his wife assisted the men in shearing sheep in the co-op herd, gleaned grain in the fields to make flour and for chicken feed, and in every way possible endeavored to help make a livelihood for the family. Five children were born to these good people, but home duties and hard work did not prevent them from attending strictly to their duties in the ward; for, as they said, it was to live their religion that they had come. And just when prosperity began to smile upon them in 1880, Brother Martin Christensen was called by President John Taylor to take his family to San Luis Valley and help make a settlement for the Saints there. Did they respond? With courage, born of faith, they sold their property, bought teams, and bidding farewell to friends and to the little grave where reposed one of their precious babies, set out with the remaining four children on a trip fraught with terrible hardship. They were to make a new home in the wilderness and to become pioneers of Manassa, Colorado. The first winter was terribly severe, and the rough cabin they had been able to erect was but a poor protection to the family and to the milch cows to which it also gave. Shelter. When spring opened up, in spite of terrific gales, the little family planted their crops, which were later almost entirely destroyed by summer frosts. But they faced the situation without fear and with no doubt as to ultimate success, by the blessing of the Lord who had directed their footsteps there. The D. & R. G. R. R. Was building its lines at that time, and construction camps were strung out from ten to twenty miles apart. This opened a business opportunity to Sister Christensen, who, fitting up an old wagon for the purpose, visited these camps regularly, selling butter, eggs, dressed chicken, vegetables, etc. Her visits were looked forward to and her advent could be HANNAH CHRISTENSEN 381 relied upon with certainty. Every other Tuesday she went from Manassa to Alamosa, returning the following day; and every Saturday she went to Antonito, thus establishing a trade which she followed for about twenty years; during this time she saved about $10,000. It was amusingly said of her that if she started out alone on the desert in the morning she would return at night with a pocket full of money. Still she found time to attend to her duties in the Church, and for fifteen years acted as president of the Relief Society at Manassa, and for some years as president of Primary in that place, while her husband was counselor in the Bishopric of the ward and superintendent of Sunday School. While residing in Manassa, her home was within a block of the Stake House, and many of the general authorities who visited Stake conferences were entertained at her home. Often the yard was filled with teams, and generous entertainment was provided for all who came. In 1900, Brother Christensen being in poor health, he and his wife came to Murray, Utah, to live near their daughter; here, in 1908, Brother Christensen died. In Murray, Sister Christensen again took hold of work in Relief Society and was one of the most efficient Relief Society teachers in that ward. In 1917, when she was 79 years of age, she was struck by an automobile and so severely injured that her life was despaired of and a broken bone in her limb was never set. Through the administration of the Elders and her great faith, she finally recovered and for two years afterward, in spite of her lameness, walked one and a half miles daily from her home to work in a store. Sister Christensen's absolute faith in the administration of the Elders in time of sickness was one of the outstanding principles of her life. She never summoned medical aid except a midwife, although the extreme activity of her mind often wore out her frail body. On several occasions, when it seemed to those around her that her spirit had left her body, she revived and testified that she had been restored to life by the power of the Priesthood. Sister Christensen lived to the age of 85 years and died at Murray, July 30, 1923, where her body reposes by the side of her husband's. She is survived by three sons and one daughter. Optimistic and cheerful, to know Sister Hannah was to love her and her associates in San Luis often remarked that she must have been sent there to cheer and comfort them. Of the labors of such pioneer women we of today are enjoying the rich fruition. Let us honor their memory and emulate their noble example. Pioneers and Parents By Sarah B. Moody If you love the romance, the bravery, the rugged beauty of life, the power and resourcefulness of our Mormon pioneers, you will enjoy this true story of Mr. And Mrs. Dan Kemp. Dan was born in England in 1859, but emigrated to Utah with his parents when a small! Boy. Some years later the family was called to St. George. About this time the new temple was the all-absorbing topic, and Dan, then a lad of fourteen, proudly volunteered his services, and was on hand with the first workmen. He labored on for years; mastered the trade of mason, attained his manhood, and finally saw the completion of the temple. Pride and pleasure in the part he had taken in the erection of this beautiful edifice, gladdened all his after years. Amanda Brimhall was born in Hyrum, Cache County, Utah, in 1864. Her parents pioneered in Southern Idaho, and later went to Arizona. When they made the trip south, Amanda was fourteen years old, and the following incident of the journey impressed her vividly. Ten immigrant wagons belonging to five families, and followed by a small herd of cattle and horses, toiled patiently uphill, and down, through deep gulches, over and around boulders huge as a table, through tall, slapping brush and over cactus beds. Early winter overtook them and for days they traveled through the snow. When they reached the crossing of the big Colorado River, they found the water frozen over. Mr. Johnson, who tended the ferry, had never seen it, frozen before, and insisted they would have to camp there for a week before it would thaw sufficiently to ferry across. A week of camping in the snow with no food for their stock and little for themselves seemed too much. They talked it over, and told Mr. Johnson they would pray for the ice to thicken, then would cross in the morning and go on their way. "The Big Colorado don't freeze, and has never been crossed that way," insisted Mr. Johnson. With the breaking of dawn the pioneers were out testing the ice inch by inch with poles. "Unload the wagons. Cut timber and make sleds, everybody move. The Lord is on our side," shouted the leaders. Before the sun had much more than bid them a genial good morning, the commands were executed and the contents of the wagons were being sledded across the ice. This was great fun PIONEERS AND PARENTS 383 for the children, who raced busily back and forth hauling the sleds. Now came the time to get the cattle and horses across. They instinctively scented danger and could neither be led nor driven onto the ice. "I have it!" shouted a sturdy pioneer as he rushed forward with a bucket of sand and began strewing it over and back, making a sandy trail across. The old mare, the recognized leader of the band, was coaxed onto the trail. The other horses, then the cows followed one by one, until all were safely across. "Now for the wagons with-all speed," shouted the leader as he felt the increasing warmth of the sun. Again he tested the ice with a pole. "We'll make it boys, drive on." The white-hooded wagons moved slowly but surely across the ice. One by one they landed, and as the last team stepped onto the firm ground a tremendous cracking sound was heard and the hind wheels of the wagon went down, but the faithful old team pulled it safely ashore, and then the pioneers went on their way singing praises to the Lord, who had truly been with them. This was the first and last time the Colorado was ever crossed on ice at that place. This little company settled at Taylor, Arizona, on the Little Colorado. Other pioneers had preceded them, but it was still a great, lonely, silent wilderness in the land of the Apache and Navajo Indians. Great deserts hemmed them in and seemed to be forever reaching out their hungry arms to get them; the silence of the night was broken only by the hoot of an owl, the call of a coyote, and occasionally by the far-away chant of an Indian war dance. But the days were busy and happy. Logs had to be cut and homes built, brush grubbed, land broken and planted, and water ditches dug. There were no idlers here. Every woman and every child had a share to do, and had no time to think of loneliness and danger. Amanda Brimhall grew to womanhood here in Taylor, where she met and fell in love with Dan Kemp. Both of them knew that a kind hand was guiding them, and that no place could be desolate or no band of exiles be lonely, so long as they had faith and friendship, song and love, in their hearts. And soon came a double wedding with all its romance; for Lavina, a younger sister, was to marry Andrew Woods the same day. This was to be a big event; for they had a real wedding cake. With layer piled high upon layer, and all covered over with snowy ornaments. A professional baker, Mr. Wood's father, had made 384 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE DAN KEMP AND HIS SONS it. The girls' wedding dresses were made of real cashmere. The whole town was bidden to the wedding; the neighbor ladies were busy assisting with the cooking, taking the bed out of the best room, improvising long tables, borrowing dishes, and making themselves generally useful. _ When all was in readiness, President Jesse N. Smith solemnized the marriages making the ceremony sacred and impressive. A real wedding supper and a dancing party followed. When it was all over and the newly-wedded couples sought rest, Mr. And Mrs. Woods' bedroom was a covered wagon in the yard, for Mr. Brimhall's house contained only three log rooms. Two years later, with one little daughter, Mr. And Mrs. Kemp again took to the trail and moved several hundred miles south to where a few Saints were settled on the Gila River. Half a dozen settlers, each in his little clearing in the high mesquite brush, and living long distances apart, composed all of Thatcher when the Kemps arrived. They made their little clearing and set to work at once to build a home. Dan made adobes enough for two walls, then made the other two with willows: A canvas was stretched over the top for a roof, and another canvas was tacked over the dirt floor, but they were proud enough to move into this one room. There was little variety of food. A kettle of frijoles was constantly on the stove, and often for days at a time they had little else to eat. Again they went through the silent night and busy days. Separation from their home folks seemed to entrance the desolation, but hand in hand they faced the future unafraid, because they knew that God is good. PIONEERS AND PARENTS 385 MRS. KEMP AND HER SONS Once, as the hush of evening was settling over the little town, it was rudely disturbed by the war-whoop of Indians. A great band of them with war paint and feathers rode wildly through the settlement. All the women and children were hurried into the only substantial adobe house, and all through the night the men stood guard with their guns. Weird chants of the Indian war dance reached them. There was no sleep for anyone that night. The women huddled together in fear, breathing a constant prayer for protection. With the coming of dawn they were left in peace, with gratitude for God's protecting care. For many years the Apache Indians continued to be a menace. They frequently rode through the settlement, stole cattle and horses, ambushed travelers, and sometimes took life. At one time the Wright brothers of Thatcher were following Indians to get back some of their stolen stock and were ambushed and killed. When the awful news sped over the struggling settlement, the people all feared and sorrowed as one big family. The Kemp's second daughter was born in their first little home. Kindly neighbors cared for mother and baby. While left alone for a brief time, Mrs. Kemp lay on her bed and watched a huge snake craw! Up the willow side of the house. She was used to such visitors, however, and since it was only a water snake she knew it could do no harm. Busy as this little band of struggling pioneers were, one of the first things they did was to get willows from the river for a place of worship. On Sunday, work was laid aside and men, women and children went in their "Sunday best" to the little bowery. Dan Kemp led the singing, and all sang and worshipped together. 386 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Years hastened by, and other companies of pioneers came to join them. During these busy, building days, no one's services were more in demand that were Mr. Kemp's, for he must lay the adobes for all the new houses. "We must build more beautiful and substantial houses to replace our pioneer shacks," Mr. Kemp early advised. And with this in view, he, with Wm. C. Moody, made the first bricks and built the first brick houses in Thatcher; and in course of time, many brick structures followed. During twenty-six years spent in Thatcher, the Kemps saw it develop into a thrifty farming town with about twelve hundred inhabitants. There were good stores, a fine bank building, a commodious depot, and many substantial business buildings. A beautiful church house, also an artistic and commodious church school building, were outstanding. During all these years children came regularly to the Kemp home until there were sixteen. Mr. And Mrs. Kemp welcomed them all; their fidelity to religion taught them the sacredness of human life; and they willingly, gladly gave their best years to their children. Mr. Kemp met with a heavy financial loss, and those of the family still at home (several had married in Arizona) decided to try their fortunes in San Diego, California. They reached there with eleven children, little money, and no knowledge of city life. Mr. Kemp tells of his first efforts to rent a house in San Diego. They approached a house with a "For Rent" sign in the window.. "Have you any children?" the landlady asked. "Yes, we have sixteen," Mr. Kemp answered with pride. This happened again and again until Mrs. Kemp remonstrated: "Dan, why do you persist in telling them sixteen children? You are virtually shouting it from the house tops, and are hurting our chances to get a home." "When it comes to my children, I don't compromise with anyone. People may as well know first as last," he answered. In spite of children and honesty, they finally rented a comfortable house. Mr. Kemp found work at his trade, and his children all helped. Their industry and honesty soon won friends. One of these was the corner grocer, who watched their struggles and guessed the truth. "Mr. Kemp, don't go without things you need," he said. "Come to my store and get anything you want. I have watched you and your family, and know I shall never lose a cent." The Kemps affiliated themselves at once with the little, struggling branch of the Church. In a short time Mr. Kemp was made president of the branch and Mrs. Kemp president of the Relief Society.
PIONEERS AND PARENTS 387
Once again their pioneer spirits served them, and after many years of service they brought the little branch through to a safe and sure foundation. Before many years they had built and paid for a good home, which was always open to numerous friends. Good books and magazines were plentiful here, and their conversation showed that they were a reading, thinking, progressive couple. And the children? They grew up in a home of peace and love. They were always clean and well-disciplined, and have all been well educated. The ideals of the parents are reflected in the children. Thirteen stalwart men and beautiful women are alive out of the sixteen. All but the last two, who are still at school, have homes of their own, and are honest, industrious, God-fearing citizens. Many of them have fine talents along musical and artistic lines. Much more might be said for them: but the parents, theirs was the supreme gift to the world. In November, 1926, Mr. Kemp went on his last long journey home. People are seldom missed as Dan Kemp is missed. Because he had given so much love and service, he was much beloved.
Listening to Beethoven's Fifth Symphony
By Annie Pike Greenwood
What heaven was locked within his precious brain That never was revealed to any man; What harmonies of joy, what notes of pain, Even a faint surmise is all we can.
He must have heard things greater far than this There in his soul, or else this could not be. At least he had this most transcendent bliss Of knowing all of music's ecstasy—
More than is possible for us who hear This that he left us when he went away— Away where he can make his music clear— Clearer than ever in this mortal day:
Somewhere in God's great universe is he Creating greater than this symphony.
An Amazing Life History
Written from Memory by Mrs. E. I. Pulsipher
In Stavenger, Norway, October 8th, 1850, was born Elizabeth Isabelle, daughter of Erastus and Lorina Jacobson. Erastus joined the Church in 1860 in days of persecution. He was a shoemaker; but when he joined the Church few would
MRS. ELIZABETH I. PULSIPHER
give him work. He and his wife had to go to work at anything they could get in order to make enough money to buy food for the children. The family left Norway for Zion about April 1st, 1863. We were three days on the steamboat and oh! How sea sick I was. We arrived in England and had to wait two weeks while an old ship
388 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
was fixed up so that we could cross the Atlantic. It took us eight weeks to cross the ocean with much sickness and fevers, many dying. My little sister became very ill and Mother prayed that she might live until we reached land. This she did. We arrived in New York, staying there half a day; then we boarded the train. There were so many of us that some had to ride in cattle cars. We ferried across rivers, rode trains, and finally reached Carthage, where the Prophet Joseph Smith and his brother Hyrum were killed. My father and mother left me to care for the children, five including myself, while they went to see Carthage jail. We went up the Missouri River to Fort Leavenworth, where we met the ox teams. I do not remember how many days we traveled before Mother was run over. She was leaning out of the wagon to call father to come take the baby, as the driver wanted her to walk, when her feet slipped and she was run over and severely injured. We traveled on four days after she was hurt. Arriving at Fort Laramie, they placed mother in an old log house, which had no doors or windows. There I was left with a helpless mother, a sick baby, and all the children to take care of. There were seven in the family. Though only twelve years old, I was up nearly every night with the sick baby. Father had to work at the Fort for our bread. The Indians were very friendly. Some came every day to see if they could do something to help us; and many times I have walked with them to the Fort. I am sure, however, that the Lord was with us and blessed us. One day, as I was frying bacon, I poured the hot grease into a cup and set it upon a high shelf. My little brother, nine years old, wanting a drink, reached up for the cup and spilled the hot grease on his face. I grabbed the bucket of water and threw it on him. The hot grease left no sign of a burn. We stayed there two weeks. Some apostate Mormons in the Fort talked Father into the notion of going back to Omaha. The night before we were to leave, mother had a dream, or vision. She dreamed that a man came and stood by her bed and told her not to go back, but to go to Zion. (There were no ox-teams there then, and we thought there would be none.) This old man had long white hair and a long white beard. He stood by mother's bed, and told her there would be two ox-trains the next day, and she and her family were to go on to Zion, and not turn back. The next day when the wagon came to take us back to Omaha, mother would not go; and that same day one ox-train came in. There was a ferry half a mile from where we lived. Father went down to see the Captain. The Captain told him they could not possibly take us because they were already overloaded. While Father was there the other ox-train drove in.
390 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
This Captain told him the same thing. Father came home much disappointed, but mother never lost hope. She said, "We're going. The trains have come, as the man told me, and I know we're going." I was out getting dinner on a camp fire, when I saw a wagon coming. I ran into the house and told Father they were coming for us. Mother was still so bad from her injuries that it hurt her to travel; and I had to hold my little sister, because she was so ill. She died the third day after we had started. As small as I was, I had to wash her, put a little gown on her, and sew a cloth around her, in which to be buried in the ground with no coffin. No one came to help me and mother was not able to. Father helped mother out of the wagon, and from that day on she walked the rest of the way. Many a night I have lain and held a quilt over mother to keep her dry from the rain. Joseph F. Smith was in the same company with us. He was just coming home from a mission to England. Every morning he would come over to see how mother was and would bring her a little sugar or what dainties he could, and help in any way. Father, my little brother nine years old, and I, used to go ahead. We would catch fish in the small streams. Towards camping time I would gather up, along the road, buffalo chips in my apron, and carry them to the camp ground to burn. When I would get tired carrying one load, I would throw them down and rest awhile before gathering more. We arrived in Salt Lake City on October 8, 1863. I was then thirteen. We had traveled six months, having left on the 1st of April. We knew no one, and did not know what to do or where to go. The wagon we were in was going to Lehi, so we went with it. We all stripped cane or did any work we could, to get something to eat. That winter Father could not get work in Lehi, but found work in Draper. The rest of us stayed in Lehi. Mother and I went into the hills and gathered carrot sage brush to burn. When the snow fell, I went into the fields and, with snow to my knees, I dragged out willows and laid them in piles; then we would get a man to haul them to our place for half of them. I was small for my age, but very strong. In the spring of 1864 we moved to Draper. Here my hard times commenced. I hired out for a man, working out in a field three months and three weeks, till I could not stand it any longer. I quit, and they would not pay me anything because I left them. They had given me an old dress made out of denims, and the lady had taken my clothes, although she later denied this. Every noon I had to draw water out of a deep well for thirteen head of calves, while the man and wife went into the house to rest. After dinner I had to go back into the field and pitch hay and do all kinds of man's work. That winter I
AN AMAZING LIFE HISTORY 391
went to school to Dr. Park for three months. This was all the schooling I ever had. I worked out for four years, helping to support the family. Then, growing tired of working for different people, I decided to be my own boss. On October 26, 1867, I was married to David Pulsipher, a member of the Mormon Battalion. My life was a struggle, both before and after marriage. The first year we were married our best horse was stolen. This left us with only one horse. The next year the grasshoppers came. Sometimes they were so thick that we could not see the sun. My husband went to work on the railroad, making the grading. We had a little grain left, which the grasshoppers did not get. Getting a man to cut the grain I raked it. He bound, and I shocked it. We lived in a log house with one room and a dirt roof. In 1873 my husband was called to help settle Arizona. While he was gone, my third boy was born. The colonists did not find anything where they were told to go, so they came back. We were called, and left Draper in October, 1879. We now had five boys. We arrived at Concho, Arizona, in December. Here we had grasshoppers again. We had plenty of flour when we left, but there were so many without flour that we divided with them and soon we had none. We got some barley, paying $6.50 for it; hauled it eighteen miles to be ground, and lived for nine weeks on ground barley. The first flour we got there we paid $12.00 a hundred for, and many gave a cow for a hundred pounds of flour. Soda was 50c a package. The first two years the grasshoppers took our grain. In 1880 I was appointed second counselor to Sister Killian in the Relief Society. I worked in it for 20 years. I also worked in the Primary with Helena Kempe. We were there two years when my husband took rheumatism in both hands. Most of the time he was helpless. He got so bad with rheumatism that for seventeen years I had to wash and dress him. I had eight boys, when scarlet fever came and I lost two of my children in one month. Another was left with dropsy. When my husband took rheumatism I took in sewing from the Mexicans and made dresses for one dollar apiece. We lived in a Mexican house for five years until my husband and boys could build one. My husband's hands were so crippled that he had to use both of them to drive a nail. The boys, the oldest being fourteen, made the adobes, and did most of the building. I hired a Mexican woman to plaster the house when it was ready. This was our first house; it had three rooms. We lived on cornmeal and graham bread for a long, long time. The oldest boy said, "I'm tired of graham; I'm going to raise wheat." The first wheat we raised was tramped out or shelled by horses stepping back and forth over it.
392 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
In 1892 I lost a little girl, twenty-one months old. I also lost a son in 1895, twenty-two years old, killed by a horse falling on him. One of my other sons left for a mission to Texas in 1899. My husband died in 1900; but I did not want my son to leave his mission work, so one of my boys and I went to the Gila Valley in the southern part of Arizona to find work. My son stayed in the mission field for twenty-eight months. By the year 1905 all the children were married but my baby girl. In 1906 I moved down to the Gila Valley, worked in Globe and Morenci, and bought me a little home in Pima, Arizona. There I was put in as Relief Society Teacher. My oldest son died in 1917. I came to Provo, Utah, in 1917; and my baby girl was married in June, 1917, but died in 1918. Then I went back to Pima, but returned in 1921 to Provo and bought me a little home. I am the mother of eleven children, four of whom are still living.
Our Dauntless West
By Myrtle Janson
Hail, land of our Western homes, Against whose rugged rocks the grand Pacific foams, What wonder that our fathers bled and died for you! We your loyal children would so strive, too, Were we called as they.
Land of promise, land of glory, Land of thrilling, adventurous story; Land of freedom, land of dreams, Land where white the heaven-soul gleams We adore Thee.
Land of cattle, sheep and grain, Of sturdy men who toil, yet seek but honest gain; Land of sage, of stalwart pine, Land of roses, and heaven's sunshine, We glorify Thee.
Land of gleaming deserts, wooded hills; Land of meadow-larks and trilling whippoorwills; Land of painted cliffs, precipitous, Land of snow-capped mountains, gorgeous, God's land; we worship Thee.
Land of refuge, land of progress, Land of eager, dauntless prowess; Land of heroes, musicians, poets, Land of seers, of inspired prophets, Thee we sanctify.
Elizabeth Mary Clegg Brown
By Louetta Brown
Elizabeth Mary Clegg Brown, a daughter of pioneer parents, Benjamin Clegg of Oldham, England, and Grace McIntyre of Millport, Scotland, was born December 8, 1854, at Tooele, Utah. At the age of seventeen years she married James Stephens Brown, a member of the famous Mormon Battalion who was a pioneer and one of the original discoverers of gold at Sutter's Fort, California. The family was of moderate means and endured the hardships of pioneering Utah's arid valleys. Her husband served on several missions among the Indians and became expert as an interpreter of Indian languages. He was a missionary to England and also to the South Sea Islands. He went on his second mission to the Society Islands fifty years after his first mission among the natives. He filled many preaching missions for the Church among the organized stakes and was known as one of the ablest advocates of Mormonism. Mrs. Brown, during the absence of her husband, remained at home where her time was occupied in earning a livelihood and in rearing her family. The writer remembers well her stories of pioneer days and
394 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
particularly of watching the seagulls gather upon her father's farm where they gorged themselves with crickets which were devouring the crops and then fly away toward the shore of the Great Salt Lake, disgorge themselves and return and repeat their work until the fields were completely cleared of the destructive plague. When provisions were scarce, she, with others, gathered sego bulbs to add to their food supply, as many were compelled to do in early days. The endurance and resourcefulness required by our parents and grandparents in settling and redeeming the barren waste, fill us with wonder and gratitude. We hardly understand how they could endure the privations and hardships incident to those trying times. Having married at an early age, she had little opportunity of attending school. Her education was gained through actual experience. She was inclined to study and all through her life was a great reader and at the time of her death could converse well on matters of history, current events and national affairs. She was the mother of six children, Lillious Mary, Guardello, Mark Clegg, Benjamin Joseph, Louetta and Myrtle Junetta. She died May 20, 1927. During her life she spent much of her time in Relief Society work. For thirty years she was a Relief Society block teacher, and for a time was president of the Relief Society of the Seventeenth Ward of the Salt Lake Stake. She was known for her generosity and genial disposition and for her abiding faith in the providence of God and the immortality of the soul. She was modest, thrifty and saving, an ideal home maker, a true mother and a devoted wife. No hungry or distressed person was ever turned from her door without aid. She was true to her convictions during favorable or trying times and her last words were, "The Lord's will, not mine, be done." She was a member of Camp Seventeen of the Daughters of Utah Pioneers. It was said of her, at the time of her demise, by Elder Arthur F. Barnes, a life-long friend and neighbor and a former member of the bishopric of her ward, "She was loved by all who knew her, and those who knew her best, loved her most." She is survived by two sons, two daughters, sixteen grandchildren and the following named brothers and sisters, Benjamin Clegg of Grace, Idaho, Peter M. Clegg of Tooele City, Utah, Mrs. Grace Bell of Tooele City, Utah, Mrs. Amelia Pickett of Burley, Idaho, and Mrs. Eliza Hale of Logan, Utah. The sacred esteem in which she was held by all of her children is lovingly expressed in the following Mother's Day contribution to her by her son Mark:
ELIZABETH MARY CLEGG BROWN 395
MY MOTHER DEAR
Of all the blessings that I know, And all the friends that come and go, Nor all the sunsets and the flowers And shady nooks and sunny bowers, And all the beauties of the spring Where lilies bloom and wild birds sing, And all the babbling brooks that flow From mountain tops of ice and snow, No—nothing that I see or hear Can take your place—My Mother Dear.
Like a Quiet Stream
By Gwenevere Anderson
Mr. Marsden had driven into Salt Lake City from his pioneer homestead forty miles away to get a new rocking-chair and some sugar. The drive had been a long one, so he stayed over night with some friends. As he was starting for home the next morning, he came to a party of Mormon emigrants who had just arrived from their long journey across the plains. He stopped to speak to their captain, and ask him news of the Saints farther east. As they talked, a little six-year-old girl ran up to the captain and caught hold of his hand. It was then that he told Mr. Marsden this story: The family had set out from Holland to come to Utah for their religion. Mr. and Mrs. Van Dam, the child's parents, had had a pleasant little home in their native Dutch village, and had been happy there with their four children. But their faith called them to give up home and country. Herbert, the oldest boy, was nearly eleven—old enough to help with the younger children on the long voyage. The family parted from their friends and set out on a slow sailing vessel for the new land. The ocean crossed, they started across the plains in wagons drawn by ox-teams. Before many miles had been traveled, Father Van Dam died, and left the young mother to go on alone with the children. How tedious and lonely the journey must have been for her! Ill and exhausted from the hardships encountered and heart-broken by the loss of her husband, she never lived to see the Zion of her faith. Before the plains were crossed, she gave up her life soon after another little girl was born. The other emigrants brought the five children and the aged grandparents with them to Salt Lake City. "We don't know how to provide for the family," the captain
396 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
finished. "Sister Thurston has been caring for the baby, and she wants to keep it, and the youngest of the others. The boy can probably work and help us here. But what we shall do with this little girl and her sister, who is eight, I don't know. I would be glad to adopt her, but we haven't yet made our home, and it is hard to see clearly how we are to provide for these orphans." Brother Marsden's heart was touched as he listened to the story. "I have my home made," he said. "I'll take her home with me and treat her as my own." "I'll take her sister," spoke up his companion, Brother Johnson. "If she's eight, she'll probably be old enough to help with the work." That journey to her new home must have been strange and wonderful to little Lottie Van Dam. The stretching sagebrush flats were a contrast indeed to the green and flowering land of Holland. Sitting up on the high spring-seat of the wagon beside the austere though kind pioneer who had resolved to give her a home, she must have felt afraid and lonely. In the evening, they arrived at the big homestead, with its log cabin surrounded by young trees. Beyond the house were the sheds and barns, and fields of meadow-land. Beyond them, the sagebrush stretched away to the mountains. "Here's a little girl I brought home with me, Mother," Lottie's benefactor called as he swung her down from the wagon. "Her father and mother are dead." "My, how dusty and ragged she looks," said Mother Marsden. "Come in, child, and I'll clean you up." But little Lottie only looked in a bewildered way from one to the other. She knew not a word of English and they not a word of Dutch. She soon learned the language, though, for she was quick and bright, and she played and prattled all the day with the Marsdens' five-year-old son. As Lottie grew up, she worked hard to show her gratitude to the people who had given her a home. The Marsden babies looked upon her as their real older sister, and with good reason. She was their fun-loving playmate and patient nurse. Many times, she carried a baby in one arm, while she swept the floors or pounded the dasher of the churn up and down with the other. In return, Mr. Marsden kept his promise to "treat her as his own." He and his wife loved Lottie as a daughter. Life was not easy in a pioneer ranch-house on the edge of the desert. On washdays water had to be carried from the spring below the house. The cows had to be milked, and the big pans of milk put in the little room over the spring, so that the cream would rise. The porches and floors were kept clean by
LIKE A QUIET STREAM 397
scrubbing them with sand and lye until the boards were quite smooth and yellow. Lottie learned housekeeping by the simple process of experience. Mother Marsden trained her in the rudiments of reading and writing, and for a little while during one or two winters, Lottie went to school in a nearby town; but as a general rule, there was no time for "formal education." There were many other more useful things to be learned—how to sew, to keep house, how to weave rag rugs and make quilts, how to bake and cook and churn, and how to care for babies. The work-day began when the sun came up or before, and ended after dark. The Marsden children, all younger than Lottie, needed care and help, and Lottie's kind heart loved them deeply and her capable hands tended them patiently. At last the Marsden girls were old enough to help their mother, and Lottie was given the opportunity to go away for a year of schooling. She was so thrilled that her hands trembled and she could hardly fasten the straps of her "telescope." When the school year was over, she came back to her faithful duties. She always tried to determine what it was her duty to do, and then she did it. The Marsdens' home was two miles from their nearest neighbors', and Lottie had few intimate friends of her own age. Two miles was rather too far to walk to seek companionship when there was always so much work to be done. If there was a dance or a ward-social in the nearby village, Lottie was nearly always too tired to go. She was past the age when most pioneer girls married. Probably her friends said, "Lottie will make a good wife for some man. She is so sweet-tempered and kind and such a capable housekeeper. It seems too bad for her to become an old maid." Among the many people who came to the Marsdens' to visit, or stopped to spend the night on their way farther west, there were very few of Lottie's own age—most of them were much older. In spite of this, she was rarely lonely—she was too busy for that. The doors of that pioneer home were always open to both friends and strangers. When John Rogers came to spend a few days, Mr. Marsden welcomed him with especial pleasure. John was a man of quiet disposition—respected, upright, kindly. He was old enough to be established in life. Humor, intelligence and refinement in a woman meant more to him than pretty clothes and graceful dancing. Perhaps his eyes followed Lottie as she hurried quietly about the house doing her work. Perhaps, too, he heard how sweetly and patiently her voice answered the younger members of the family. At any rate, he fell in love with Lottie. He came more and more often to the big homestead, and it was
398 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
obviously not to talk with Mr. Marsden about cattle. After a few months, John and Lottie were married. Very thrilled and happy, Lottie packed her few homespun clothes to move to her new home in Salt Lake City. The experience in housekeeping which she had gained in her younger days was very useful to her. John always came to a neat, pleasant little house, a good supper, and a smiling wife. In return, he tried to make the work easy for her. His truest pleasure was to see her eyes shine when he brought home a present for her—a pot of flowers, or a new dress or shawl. "You look pretty in that," he said one night, when Lottie was wearing a new grey silk he had bought for her. "I love it, but I feel almost guilty when I wear it, John," she answered, thinking of the many "handed-down" dresses she had made over, turning them inside out to hide the faded spots. It seemed almost wicked to her to have a new silk dress all her own. She would have been happier if she had made over one of her old dresses and seen one of her younger sisters in the new silk. They were very happy together for a few years. All their neighbors were their friends. Lottie's lively sense of humor lightened John's more sober, quiet disposition. A few years—and then Lottie was left a widow. She had always loved children so much and made friends with them so easily and had none of her own. Instead, she seemed like a mother to all the children in the neighborhood. In the mornings, Lottie hurried about her house, systematically and deftly doing the work. In the afternoons, she often worked in her garden. She seemed to have a special power with flowers, and she loved to plant them and tend them until they came into bloom. Perhaps her ancestors in Holland had been flower-growers. The children coming home from school used to run into her yard to tell "Aunt Lottie" of their little adventures, and to coax her to give them bouquets. They never failed to find her interested in what they were doing, and seldom did one go home without at least one flower. Somehow in the midst of her busy mind she reserved a place to remember all the little hobbies dear to each one, and even to remember their birthdays. Not long ago, a neighbor who called, found Lottie, after a hard day's work, packing birthday presents to send to some of the children who had grown up and moved to California. When one of her neighbors and his wife had to leave town before school was out and go out to their farm, their children stayed with "Aunt Lottie" in order to finish their school. She made her home so pleasant to them that they hardly missed being away from their own. She always cared for the neighborhood children while their mothers were busy or ill.
LIKE A QUIET STREAM 399
All her life, Lottie has thought of others before herself. Even as a girl, she was a peacemaker of the family. There is never a sick-bed in the neighborhood that she does not visit with loving helpfulness. There is never a woman in distress whom she does not comfort. "She is the saving angel of our neighborhood," one of her neighbors said in gratitude. Lottie had always been fragile physically. When she was scarcely forty, a very serious illness caused her months of anguished suffering and nearly took her life. Perhaps she would have died, had it not been that she had always lived simply and hygienically. After several serious operations, she recovered, but her hearing was impaired. It steadily grew worse, and soon she was almost entirely deaf. Each Sunday some one of her many friends in the ward goes to Church with her and writes down the sermon. She bears her sufferings patiently and without complaint. One of her friends says of her, "If most women had endured what she has, they would have been dead ten years ago." Her patience and faith have enabled her to bear loneliness and suffering. Undaunted by the misfortune of losing her hearing, she who had loved music and friendly talk went on with her quiet, good life. Lottie is a frail little woman, but so agile that you would never guess her to be seventy. She still prefers walking to riding, even when her walk is several miles long. Anatole France said, "time deals gently with those who take it gently." Aunt Lottie does not seem so old as her years say she is. She has always been patient and uncomplaining—she has "taken time gently." Her hair is grey, but her face still looks at the world with a young interest. She laughs often. In her face, which conceals nothing, are written the joys and sorrows of a sympathetic and sincere nature. The wrinkles of her face are not deep lines, but only the permanent marks of the expressions of her personality. Her clothes are up-to-date in style, but somehow she has never lost a bit of a quaint old-fashioned look. It cannot be her clothes that give it. It must be the sweetness of her face—making one think of patchwork quilts on four-poster beds and of chests of linen scented with lavender. Somehow, an expression in her eyes dominates her sweet face. There is something behind their smile that seems to be questioning and searching hungrily. They look out from a sensitive, sympathetic personality, shut off in loneliness from the things that are sounding all about her. No trumpets ever blare to announce Lottie's accomplishments. No heralds shout her name down the streets. But, for all that, many "rise up and call her blessed."
Notes from the Field
Amy Brown Lyman
Social Service Items
National Conference of Social Work: The Relief Society was represented at the National Conference of Social Work, held in Memphis, Tennessee, May 2-9, by the following members of the staff of the Welfare Department: Miss Genevieve Thornton, Mrs. Annie D. Palmer and Miss Helen Midgley. Miss Thornton and Mrs. Palmer were especially interested in the sections where administrative work, professional standards, and family and health problems were discussed, while Miss Midgley attended meetings and discussions on Employment, with its interrelated problems. There were a number of additional delegates from other social agencies in the community.
Noted Visitor: A most interesting visitor to Salt Lake City recently was Miss Helen Pidgeon, of Washington, D. C., executive secretary of the International Association of Policewomen. A luncheon meeting was arranged in her honor by the social workers of the city, when Miss Pidgeon spoke on "The Service of Policewomen." She emphasized the importance of well trained policewomen in all the police departments of the country, and in speaking of the necessary preparation for the work, she emphasized, among other things, the need of social case work training. Miss Pidgeon said the great ideal in the work of the policewoman is protective preventive work. She gave examples of excellent results obtained where communities are properly and adequately supplied with efficient policewomen.
West Recognized: The General Secretary of the Relief Society was recently asked by Miss S. P. Breckinridge to give her views on the present use of volunteer social workers in the United States. Miss Breckinridge, who is a professor in the School of Social Service Administration of the University of Chicago, was preparing a paper on this subject to read at the International Conference of Social Work in France. In a number of the wards of the Relief Society the two-act play, "Past Echoes and Present Pep," was used as a part of the anniversary day program. Following are pictures of four different casts of characters.
"BIBLICAL MOTHERS' PAGEANT" PRESENTED BY THE WELLSVILLE 2ND WARD RELIEF SOCIETY ON MARCH 17, 1928.
402 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
Benson Stake: Benson stake is succeeding in interesting more young mothers than ever before, due largely to the excellent class teaching. The teachers' conventions have been a source of real inspiration. At the last convention the following teachers' motto was adopted: "Love One Another—To Do This I Must Speak No Ill." A thousand little cards were printed and distributed among the Relief Society teachers of the stake. They were asked always to carry one of these cards when making their visits. An interesting contest is being carried on in the stake sponsored by the Relief Society, in regard to attendance at sacrament meeting. An attendance banner is being passed from ward to ward monthly, as it is merited. Health clinics will again be held in the very near future. On the 17th of March a stake social for the organization was held, with 650 people in attendance. It consisted of pageantry, drama and social dancing. The pageant entitled "The Women of the Bible," was written by one of the local workers, Mrs. Jessie Mortensen of the Amalga ward. The music was arranged and conducted by Mrs. Bertha Mathers and Clara Sparks, both of Smithfield.
Sevier Stake: Excellent programs for the anniversary of the Relief Society were given in each of the wards in the afternoon of March 17, and in the evening a stake dance was given at the Anona Pavilion, where prizes were awarded for the best performance of the old-fashioned dances. There was a large attendance, and an enjoyable time was had.
WASATCH STAKE, MIDWAY FIRST AND SECOND WARDS, MARCH 17, 1928. CAST: "PAST ECHOES AND PRESENT PEP."
NOTES FROM THE FIELD 403
Parowan Stake: At the recent Parowan stake conference, which was partly a Priesthood convention, the women's session, for which the Relief Society furnished the speakers, was so interesting and successful that the officers were asked to take the program to the wards which had not been able to attend conference. This has been done, and all the wards in the stake have had the benefit of the splendid talks given by the Relief Society women on "A More Abundant Life—(a) Health (mental and physical), (b) Cultural and Spiritual, (c) Recognition of Relative Values." The Bishops were very kind in allowing the program to be given in the Sunday afternoon meetings. The 17th of March observance, while always good, was especially fine in all the wards this year. Pageants, programs, plays and other enjoyable features were given. The special activity this year in the Parowan stake is the reading and study of the Book of Mormon. The fine showing made last season in planting flowers, shrubs, etc., shows all signs of being followed up this year, and with the same enthusiasm.
Beaver Stake: The 17th of March was fittingly observed in the wards of Beaver stake. In Beaver City the two wards combined in a dramatic production. The beautiful one-act play "Cornelia's Jewels" from the November 1926 Relief Society Magazine, was presented by the Beaver West ward Relief Society, followed by a very interesting comedy, "Mrs. Jenkins' Brilliant Idea," by members of the East ward Relief Society.
NORTH DAVIS STAKE, KAYSVILLE WARD, MARCH 17, 1928 CAST: "PAST ECHOES AND PRESENT PEP."
404 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
BEAR LAKE STAKE, PARIS SECOND WARD, MARCH 17, 1928. CAST: "PAST ECHOES AND PRESENT PEP."
BIG HORN STAKE, LOVELL WEST WARD, MARCH 17, 1928. CAST: "PAST ECHOES AND PRESENT PEP."
Nebo Stake Reorganized: At the quarterly conference of the Nebo stake, held March 26, 1928, Mrs. Hepsy S. Lewis was released as president due to change of residence, and Mrs. May Harding was sustained as her
NOTES FROM THE FIELD 405
successor. Mrs. Lewis, who has labored so efficiently, and who, with her workers, has accomplished so much for this stake, was honored by her board members with a banquet followed by a quilting bee, at which time a beautiful and artistic quilt was made and presented to the guest of honor. Her board members also served in the temple for her on May 20th. On May 23 the new stake board, under the direction and supervision of the new president, Mrs. Harding, gave an elaborate social, which was held in the stake tabernacle. A banquet prepared and served by the presidencies of the nine ward Relief Societies in the stake was the first feature of the program. Place cards bearing a photograph of Mrs. Hepsy Lewis, retiring president, were placed for sixty. Mrs. Mary Curtis was toastmistress, and the following toasts were responded to: The Relief Society, To the retiring board, Loyalty and service, The teachers and their work, The class leaders, Ward president and officers, Reminiscences, The new stake board. Short talks were given by Mrs. Lewis and Arza C. Page of the stake presidency. A program from the Payson wards included readings and musical numbers. A general hand shake concluded the entertainment.
Teachers' Cards: Following are cards prepared and used as teachers' creeds:
BLACKFOOT STAKE Relief Society Visiting Teacher
MY CREED I will prayerfully study the outlines before visiting. I will keep to my subject. I will scatter sunshine. I will not gossip. I will bring one new member into the Relief Society this year. I will attend my meetings regularly as an example to those whom I visit.
GRANITE STAKE RELIEF SOCIETY
My Duty and Privilege as a Visiting Teacher Is:
To be dependable. To make prayerful preparation for my visits. To deliver my message. To leave my troubles at home. To speak no ill. To be a mother in my district. To live worthy of my calling. To attend all my Relief Society meetings.
406 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
To take sunshine into the homes I visit. To look for something beautiful in every home. To attend Sacrament meetings. To think of Christ, our Savior, every day.
LESSON II Work and Business (Second Week in September)
TEACHERS' TOPIC FOR SEPTEMBER—THE HOME
The Home as an Educational Institution
"For every child let truth spring from the earth, and justice and mercy look down from heaven."
I. Home largely determines direction of child's education.
1. Use of choice language and well modulated voices in the home.
2. Discussion of current topics and subjects of an elevating nature.
3. Individuals receive preparation in the home to take their places as social beings.
A. Teaches civic responsibilities and opportunities, respect for authority, obedience to law, loyalty, self-restraint, the conforming of his will to the will of others, self-control, temperance, courtesy, honesty, etc.
"Neither life nor the getting of a living but the living together, this, must be the single public end."
SCOWCROFT'S Blue Pine Preserves
Are composed of only pure fruit and sugar cooked together in an open kettle just as you would make preserves in your own home.
For something special ask your grocer for SCOWCROFT'S Blue Pine Raspberry Preserve. It has the flavor of fresh berries.
Kitchen King Jam
Is composed of pure fruit, sugar and pectin in proper proportions to make a delicious jam. Try Kitchen King Raspberry Jam for a delicious spread.
Wedding Bells
All the time it is
Our advice to those who may be concerned: Right now is the time to decide who will make your Announcements or Invitations. You should entrust this work to a firm that assures you the newest in style and correctness in taste. See us now, or send for samples and prices of Printed, New Process Embossed or Engraved Wedding Stationery. Our Line of Social Stationery is Complete and Prices Right The Deseret News Press 29 Richards Street SALT LAKE CITY CONSERVATIVE INVESTMENTS BOUGHT SOLD QUOTED Send for our complete EDWARD L. BURTON & COMPANY Established 1899 "PUT AWAY FOR THE RAINY DAY" Southern Pacific Lines OFFER Special Round Trip Summer Fares TO CALIFORNIA POINTS To LOS ANGELES AND RETURN BOTH WAYS VIA SAN FRANCISCO $40.00 To LOS ANGELES via SAN FRANCISCO returning DIRECT OR ROUTE REVERED $47.50 Proportionately low fares from all other points in UTAH, IDAHO and MONTANA. STOPOVERS ALLOWED AT ALL POINTS TICKETS ON SALE DAILY—MAY 15th TO SEPT. 30th FINAL RETURN LIMIT OCTOBER 31st For further information CALL, WRITE or PHONE PRESS BANCROFT, GENERAL AGENT PHONES WAS. 3008—3078 USE HUSLER'S FLOUR Made in SALT LAKE CITY — When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine 160 So. Main 41 SO. MAIN ST. Wasatch 866r SALT LAKE CITY — Ask your dealer for the famous Z. C. M. I. Factory-Made MOUNTAINEER OVERALLS For men, youths, boys and children. 9-0z. Copper-Riveted WAIST OVERALLS For men and boys. Wear *em and let 'er buck. Guaranteed for Quality, Fit and Service ALLOVERS and PLAY SUITS for Children THE BRICK MAN Says: "We Make Something For All" Being manufacturers of Face and Common Brick, Sewer Pipe, Drain Tile, Building Blocks, Flue Lining, Wall Coping, Roof, Floor, Mantel, Bath and Kitchen Tile, we can provide comfort and sanitation for every community. If you are figuring on reclamation of lands requiring drainage, sewer systems for sanitation, or erecting buildings that will last forever, get in touch with THE SALT LAKE PRESSED BRICK COMPANY 319 Kearns Bldg. Salt Lake City, Utah Phones: Wasatch 950—Wasatch 951 When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine SUMMER GARMENTS OF APPROVED L. D. S. STYLES Selected from our extensive line of L. D. S. Garments we suggest the following numbers for summer wear: Ribbed, light weight cotton With rayon silk stripe. A Special ladies' number $1.25 An all-season's number of ribbed, med. wt. cotton bleached $1.65 Ribbed, light weight cotton our standard summer wt...$1.25 High grade Rayon Tricosham silk, an exceptional number for particular people $4.00 In addition to the summer styles, we carry a complete line of wool, cotton and wool, worsted wool with silkine mercerized cotton. Prices range from $2.25 $5. 75.  In ordering, be sure to ss whether old or new style garments, three quarter or ankle length legs, short or long sleeves are wanted. Also GIVE BUST MEASURE, HEIGHT AND WEIGHT TO INSURE PERFECT FIT. ORDER BY MAIL OR CALL AT STORE THE ORIGINAL UTAH WOOLEN MILLS Briant Stringham, Manager: 28 Richards Street 3 Block south of Temple Gate FOR YOUR VACATION Visit Utah's Playgrounds "FOR YOUR HOUSEHOLD Use Utah's Sugar SEE AND SELL OUR NATURAL WONDERS BOOST AND BUY LOCAL PRODUCTS ~ BOTH ARE INCOMPARABLE When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine Ribbed, light weight cotton with rayon silk stripe. SEND FOR HANDY BREEDER'S CHART; —COMPLETE SUITS FOR MEN AND WOMEN MEN AND WOMEN Variety of Grades and Prices. Mail—-Telephone—Telegraph approved identification mark known.. Open Daily, 9 a. M. 5 p.m. Orders Phone Wasatch 3286 Salt Lake City, Utah GENERAL BOARD RELIEF SOCIETY IT'S EAR-TAG FOR CATTLE-HOGS -SHEEP DOUBLE HOLE LOCK makes it decidedly superior to all imitations SAMPLES Fatale rate ag a IT STAYS PUT 45 W. Broadway SALT LAKE STAMP CO. Salt Lake City  Address L. D. S. GARMENTS Direct From Factory You are guaranteed Unusual wear and satisfaction from Cutler Garments. They are made from the best legs wearing, two combed yarns. No. 68 Ribbed ex. Light Cotton No. 61 Ribbed Med. Hvy. Knee length ow...$.75 bleached Double Back.. 1.70 No. 68 Old style or new style No. 56 Ribbed Hvy. Cotton 4 or long legs...........85- Bleached ones 2.15 No. 74 Ribbed light wt. Cot..... 110 No. 55 Ribbed Hvy. Cot. No. 84 Rib, Mercerized Lisle.... 1.85 5 bleached Double Back 2.15 No. 76 Ribbed lt, wt. Lisle.... 1.35 No. 27 Ribbed Med. Wt. 50% No. 64 Ribbed Med. It. Cot. 1.35.  3.35 No. 62 Ribbed Med, Hvy. No. 39 Ribbed Hvy. Wt. 50% Bleached sweet 1.70 (OO) 3.85 No. 37 Ribbed Med. Wt. WHITE TEMPLE PANTS Wool and Silk Stripe... 4.65 oz, Heavy ...$1.75 WHITE SHIRTS "ONLEY" Collar Attached or Without....$1.95 se E WESTCOTT & MONITO Ladies Pure Silk Hose, Latest Shades..$1.69 In ordering garments please State if for men or women and if old or new Styles are wanted. Also give bust, height and Weight. _ SPECIAL—When you order three pair of garments or hose at one time we allow. You a 15% discount on the third pair. Marking 15c. Postage Prepaid. H. G. Cutler.. 237-8 Const. Bldg. 34 So Main GARMEN'TS LONG WEARING CLOTHES When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine Prompt and Careful Attention To 29 Bish op 's Buil ding is the original of the most widely used and Without obligation to me, please send FREE Samples of PERFECT EAR TAGS and Price Lis! Y} a Ask for one of our folders describing the different services we offer. LAUNDRY Hyland 190 Distinctive Work Office 319 S. Main St. We shoulda drunk more milk. When we wuz kidsYOUNG SAMSON knows what he's aiming at—a bottle of our rich, creamy milk. It's a. Ringer every time, and the prize is health. CLOVER LEAF DAIRY 159 W. 1st So. Was. 2177 Have You That Contented Mind That Goes Along With a Beneficial Policy? You need our Insurance We want your Business Beneficial Life Insurance Co. The Big Home Company —, When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine: Heber J. Grant, Pres. J Lorenzo N. Stohl, Mgr. <3 CONTENTS se AUGUST, 1928 Portrait of Julia Alleman Child.. Frontispiece Indian Princess Converted Lucy Wright Snow 409 Let This Be Heaven.. Harrison R. Merrill 410 The 1928 Conference of Social Work.... Genevieve Thornton 411 Editorial—Honor Fund for President Williams Helping the Adolescent to Develop a Wholesome Personality Elna Miller 423 Eliza R. Snow Memorial Poem Notes from the Field.. Amy Brown Lyman 433 Guide Lessons for October Organ of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints Room 20 Bishop's Bldg. Salt Lake City, Utah $1.00 a Year—Single Copy, 10c Foreign, $1.25 a Year—15c Single Copy Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah Phone Wasatch 3123 JULIA ALLEMAN CHILD Great Granddaughter of 'Naomi Harris Kellogg. Naomi Harris Kellogg was born May 5, 1800, and is the sister of Martin Harris, one of the ' Three Witnesses of the Book of Mormon Indian Princess Converted By Lucy Wright Snow Miss Ella Petoskey, an Indian Princess of Grand Rapids, Michigan, was recently a guest in the home of Mr. And Mrs. Arthur E. Snow, of Detroit, where she told the following story: "T am an Indian: Princess. Chief Petosky of the town of Petosky, Michigan, which was so called after his name, was my grandfather. My Father, Ignatius. Petosky, married a woman of French descent, and I am one of the ten children of that union. The family has been scattered, I being: the only one of the ten to take scholastic education. In my youth, I attended. The Carlysle Indian School, at Philadelphia, and later graduated from college at 'Benton Harbor, Michigan. During my educational research I was possessed with a desire to ' gain knowledge of the origin of the American Indian. I also had within me a burning desire to know which of all the churches was the true Church of Jesus Christ. I made this a matter of daily prayer, supplicating my heavenly Father, in all sincerity, to guide me in its revelation to me. One day while in Kansas City, a certain business man placed in my hands a Bouk of Mormon. In this I became marvelously interested. Perusing its contents hungrily, I soon discovered, to my great joy, that it bore record of the origin of my people. After receiving this testimony, it was only a short time till I became fully convinced of the truth of the Gospel of Jesus Christ as represented by the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. I received baptism and confirmation at the hands of an Elder of the Church at Grand Rapids and have been an active member ever since. Let This Be Heaven~~ OH, God let this be heaven—I do not ask for golden streets, Or long for jasper walls, Nor do I sigh for pearly shores Where twilight never falls; Just leave me here beside these peaks In this rough western land. I love this hard old world of thing—Dear God, you understand. Oh God let this be heaven—Dear God, you understand. Oh God, let this be heaven—I do not crave white, stainless robes, I’ll keep these marked by toil; Instead of straight and narrow walks I love trails soft with soil; I have been healed by crystal streams But these from snow-crowned peaks Where dawn burns incense to the day And paints the sky in streaks. Dear God, let this be heaven—I do not ask for angel wings, Just leave that old peak there and let me climb ‘til comes the night-I want no golden stair. Then when I say my last adieu And all farewells are given Just leave my spirit here somewhere. Oh, God, let this be heaven. Harrison R. Merrill THE Relief Society Magazine VOL. XV AUGUST, 1928 No. 8 The 1928 Conference of Social Work By Genevieve Thornton For fifty-five years the social workers of the United States have gathered once a year at an appointed place to carry out a definitely outlined program. They have lectures, demonstrations and discussions with a vital bearing on social work and on its developments during the preceding year. These meetings have a very stimulating effect on the entire profession. Sessions are held for a week and outstanding figures in every branch of social work are present to give to the group from their wide knowledge and experience. At the same time opportunity is given to everyone present to express his feeling on any particular angle of social work, or to give the group the benefit of any valuable thing he has experienced in the field, or to seek advice on any point in which he feels the need of special help. On May 2nd, at Memphis, Tennessee, the fifty-fifth annual meeting of the National Conference of Social Work opened. There were nearly three thousand delegates registered for the meetings this year. Utah had representatives from the Juvenile Court, the Red Cross, the Children's Service Society, the Salt Lake County Department of Charities, the Traveler's Aid Society, and the Relief Society Family Welfare Department. The Relief Society has for years supported these conference liberally; it had present three workers from the Family Welfare Department, the largest delegation of any Utah organization at the conference this year. As far as the writer could observe, no organization from as great a distance as Utah had a larger delegation in attendance. Twelve Major Divisions In the General Conference the officers and committees in charge endeavored to so arrange things that each worker could 412 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE follow straight through the meetings in the field in which he is most interested, if he desires. To make this possible the conference is divided into twelve major divisions as follows: Children:. II. Delinquents and Corrections. III. Health. IV. The Family. _ _V. Industrial and Economic. Problems. ~ VI: Neighborhood Community' Life. VII. Mental Hygiene. VIII. Organization of Social Forces. IX.. Public Officials and Administration. X. The Immigrant. XI. Professional Standards and Education. XII. Educational Publicity. Printed programs were furnished each delegate, giving the week's program for all the divisions. Each day was very full. There were meetings at nine o'clock and at eleven o'clock in the morning for each division; and at three p.m. The kindred groups met. In addition, each division often had a breakfast, luncheon. Or dinner meeting, and on some days all three. On some days in the regular sessions, where the subject was of vital importance to both, two or three divisions were programed to meet together. Thus the division on Children and that on Public Officials and Administration, met together when the theme was the development of better children's work throughout the state, and the keeping of standard statistics and information in regard to children cared for by both public and private institutions and agencies. The division on The Family was joined by those on Children and on Mental Hygiene when the subject for discussion was, "The Effect. Of Financial Dependency and Relief Giving on Personality and Social Attitudes." Through this frequent joining, a close relationship was maintained between all the different divisions in the discussion of problems that closely concerned them all. NOTABLE PEOPLE PRESENT Among the outstanding figures taking part, were Mr. Sherman C. Kingsley, President of the National Conference of Social Work and Director of the Welfare Federation of Philadelphia; he presided over the Conference in a dignified but sincere manner. In the Children's Division Mr. C. C. Carstons of the Child Welfare League of America, was perhaps one of the best known figures, though a large number of very capable and comparatively well known people were programed in this division. In the 'division on Delinquents and Corrections, Dr. George W. Kirch- "way of New York, himself a veteran social worker and lawyer, CONFERENCE OF SOCIAL WORK 413 and at present connected with the New York School of Social Work, was prominent. In the health field, Dr. Eugene Lyman Fiske, Medical Director of the Life Extension Institute, New York, and Dr. H. C. Kleinschmidt, of the National Tuberculosis Association, New York, might be named. In the Division on the Family so many well known people took part that naming one or two is not significant; but Porter R. Lee of the New York School of Social Work, and President of the National Conference of Social Work for the coming year, should be mentioned; also Miss Dorothy Kahn, Executive Secretary of the Baltimore Jewish Social Service organization, who acted as chairman. In the Industrial and Economic Problems Division, Dr. John A. Lapp, of Marquette University, Milwaukee, and President of the National Conference of Social Work last year; also Professor Arthur J. Todd of Northwestern University, Evanston, Illinois, were leaders. The Division on Neighborhood and Community Life, while it was ably presided over by Miss Eva W. White of Boston, and was well programed, missed the presence of Jane Addams of Chicago. Division Seven, Mental Hygiene, was attended by two eminent psychiatrists—Dr. Lawson G. Lowery, of the Institute of Child Guidance, New York City, and Dr. Henry C. Schumacher, of the Child Guidance Clinic, Cleveland. In the division on the Organization of Social Forces, were Homer Folk, Secretary of the State Charities Aid Association, New York, and Miss Sophonisba P. 'Breckinridge of the School of Social Service Administration, University of Chicago. Division nine, Public Officials and Administration, was presided over by William J. Ellis of Trenton, New Jersey. Division ten, The Immigrant, was 'presided over by Cecelia Razovsky, New York City; perhaps the outstanding figure here was D. Christie Tait of the International Labor Office, Geneva, Switzerland. Division eleven, on Professional Standards and Education, had as its outstanding figure, Dean Edith Abbott of the Graduate School of Social Service Administration, University of Chicago, with practically all the prominent figures in social work taking part. A few of the notable persons in the department on Educational Publicity were Frank J. Bruno of the School of Business and Public Administration, Department of Social Work of Washington University, St. Louis, and Elwood Street, Director of the Community Council of St. Louis. But this small list gives no idea of the extent or richness of personnel represented on the program. There were over three hundred people formally scheduled during the week, and many of them took an active part throughout the week in one division or another. Social work, and the National Conference of Social Work, has now reached a point in development where the success 414 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE of such an institution as the latter depends on no particular personalities. The large numbers taking part are people of sound basic knowledge of social work and wide experience, and the number of such available persons grows yearly larger with the development of social work as a profession. RIGHTS OF CHILDHOOD In Division one, Children, the right of all children to a decent home life was stressed. Boarding-home care for children who have no suitable home, is greatly preferred to institutional care, since children are all so different in heredity, native endowment, ability, and previous environment. Each child needs individual attention from a social, physical and psychological standpoint. Last year there were more than 200,000 children taken care of in boarding-homes; and some sections, as Boston, use almost wholly the boarding-home method. No dependent child should be removed from his home because of poverty alone. A generous relief policy will keep many a family together and will retain with his family many a child that would otherwise fill a bed in an institution. Miss Florence Hutzenpillar of the U. S. Children's Bureau, spoke feelingly of the need for adequate public aid to mothers with dependent children in their own homes. The advance in state child-welfare work in one of the Southern states, was noted. The state of Alabama has now made available for child-welfare work in that state $1,000,000.00, with from $75,000 to $80,000 for administrative purposes. Each county, before this money is turned over to it, must provide itself with a trained social worker. This law has given rise to a strong demand for good social workers in that section. Another state doing good work, but not so well supplied with money, is Minnesota, in which there are a number of trained workers covering the state, each one being responsible for several counties and supervising the work of volunteer child-welfare boards. But poor results were reported by the same method from one of our Western states, where there is only a paid secretary of the State Board of Child-welfare, with no field workers to assist in administering the law and practically no money for. Administration. In the meeting, under the direction of Miss Josephine P. Brown, Associate Field Director of the National Association for Organizing Family Social Work of New York, much interest was expressed in the volunteer work done by our ward Relief Societies for families in distress. The relationship of the Headquarters Family Welfare Department with the wards of Salt Lake County, was explained by writer and also the plan of holding social service institutes in outlying stakes for the benefit of the Relief Society workers there. From North Carolina someone asked what might be the technique for CONFERENCE OF SOCIAL WORK 415 them in securing laws and appropriations such as Alabama has. Homer Folks, Secretary of the State Charities Aid Association of New York, said, The technique for North Carolina, to get better child labor laws and more money, is to get the good women of North Carolina to sense the need." It was brought out that group life in an institution for children for more than two years is bad, as it prevents a desirable personality development; instead, boarding-home care should be secured. For those small groups of children who cannot be well handled in foster homes, suitable care in an institution must be resorted to. Since seventy per cent of all children's institutions have a population of less than one hundred, there are too many of these institutions. Dr. Emil Frankel, Director of Research of New Jersey State Department of Institutions and Agencies, Trenton, made a plea for the keeping of standard statistics by all agencies. MENTAL HYGIENE In matters of behavior problems and delinquency, both in the case of children and of adults, Dr. Lawson G. Lowrey and Dr. H. C. Schumacher gave a number of interesting talks. The value of child guidance and psychiatric service was stressed, for as Dr. Lowery stated it, what psychiatry desires to know is not so much about heredity, for we cannot treat the grandfather. "It matters not so much that John's father was a thief and his mother a sex pervert, as that they create an atmosphere in the home in which Johnnie lives. In court the question is, What did he do? In psychiatry the important question is, not what did he do, but why did he do it?" Dr. Schumacher showed that the greater the material relief, the greater becomes the dependency; and the drama is acted over and over again, if relief is given unwisely. Mr. Frank J. Bruno of St. Louis made a plea that relief be given under skilled supervision. This note of the fear of the effects of indiscriminate relief giving on personality, ran through the divisions on The Family, Mental Hygiene, and Public Officials and Administration. In regard to the sick person and personality problems, Dr. Lowery said, "The neurotic needs mental hygiene rather than to be told merely to go home, that there is nothing wrong with him." It was noted that most retarded children have about three years bad experience in school before being placed in a special class. It was urged that these special classes be graded according 416 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE to the age of the child, regardless of what work he is actually accomplishing. Family Division In the Family Division considerable attention was given to the question of how much regularity there is in the process of family case work throughout the country, and a reliable basis for reporting comparable statistics. Mr. Ralph G. Hurlin, Department of Statistics, Russell Sage Foundation, New York, reported the results of a very interesting study made by that Foundation in the past two years, indicating that while there is considerable variation in reports received from the forty-two agencies concerned, still there are very definite factors. In another meeting, the need for more scientific units for expressing personality qualities in our record systems, was stressed. "The personality treasures are there," said Miss Gordon Hamilton of the New York School of Social Work, "with practically no map or chart for picking them out. And we have also failed to work out any clear indication of process in case work and in treatment records, where service figures more largely than the need for material relief. Situational data is available and so is definition of the problem, but we still must achieve some units for recording personality." The Family Division, as already mentioned, is also much concerned with the care of dependent children in their own home by means of public aid for mothers. In certain states the State Department of Public Welfare administers the aid and in most states such aid is supervised by it.; On the care of the dependent aged, discussion centered around the questions: What happens to the chronic sick? Is it better to supplement the income of the aged rather than transplant them into a new environment? Shall we stress the pension idea? The right of every needy old person to be cared for in his old age, with a measure of happiness thrown in, was declared. The idea of old-age pensions was looked upon with favor, if it be elastic and well administered. INDUSTRIAL PROBLEMS In the Division on Industrial and Economic Problems was a symposium on the social and economic effects of prohibition. It brought out the following points: 1. A decided decrease in clients receiving aid from welfare organizations; fewer men get drunk, although there is perhaps an increase in the use of home brew; 2. There has been a decrease in the garnisheeing of wages of working men; 3. Men are more frequently at home or at places of amusement with their family than before prohibition; 4. More houses are being built; 5. Fewer men are reported in jail; 6. There is not so much. Intemperance which agencies have to deal with—"the next generation will tell the story." Dr. John CONFERENCE OF. SOCIAL WORK 417 A. Lapp stated that in his home town ''all the old soaks are now dead and no new ones have arisen to take their places.'  In the division on Professional Standards and Education XII Educational Publicity The need for upholding the finest professional standards of both social work and training for it, was stressed. It was said that there are twenty-three schools in the United States offering courses in social work, two of the larger being the Graduate School of Social Work of the University of Chicago, and the New York School of Social Work. In the plea for: building and upholding high standards, Dean Edith Abbott of the Chicago School, said: "We must not be discouraged in. This, for as late as 18/0 President Elliot of Harvard University received this answer from the head of the medical school when Dr. Elliot suggested that some higher standard than the five-minute oral examination required be given medical students graduating from that school: 'We couldn't give a long written examination for graduation from medical school 'because 'many of the men cannot write'." The need for and the importance of rural social work was stressed. Robert Kelso of the Boston Council of Social Agencies, stated that the most vivid sign of rural New England is the hotdog stand, and the roadhouse is its greatest vice: that Massachusetts has too much palliative charity 'and not enough' constructive social service. Professor N. B. Bond of the University of Mississippi replied by saying that he came from a state $0 rural that a hot-dog stand indicated a metropolitan community; that, on account of their scattered population and negro problem, the work of their rural workers is very different. SPECIAL Group MEETINGs, In addition to the twelve divisions. Programed above, there were about thirty kindred and special groups meeting regularly during the 3:00 o'clock hour each day, such as The. American Association of Psychiatric Social Workers, the National: Travelers' Aid Societies, and the National Conference of Social' Service 'of the Protestant Episcopal Church. The Catholic and the Jewish people always take an active part at these social conferences. Ox  GENERAL SESSIONS  The evenings were given over to — inspirational, sessions. President Sherman C. Kingsley, Owen Lovejoy, John A. Lapp, Reverend Reinhold Niebuhr of Detroit and Rabbi. William H. Fineshriber of Philadelphia, and Julia. Lathrop, formerly of the. U. S. Children's Bureau and now. Of the Child Welfare Committee of the Nations—all brought inspirational messages. One evening was given over to a discussion of disaster relief with pictures of the Mississippi flood, which had occurred almost a year  418 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE  to a day from the date of that meeting. Saturday evening. May 5th, was given over to the Memphis reception to the Conference, in the beautiful ball-room of the Peabody Hotel, where true Southern charm and hospitality were manifest. Another evening was spent in listening to Reverend Reinhold Niebuhr, Pastor of the Bethel Evangelical Church, Detroit, who talked on Religious Imagination and the Scientific Method. He feels that man's real fight now is against an impersonal civilization rather than against an impersonal universe. He says a person often frantically repents of the petty sin in order to shield a major one; and that it should be our aim to develop intelligence in ourselves and others and yet preserve the scientific, poetic and the religious outlook on life. INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS The final meeting of the conference was the general session, at which international relations were discussed. Prof. Arthur J. Todd of Northwestern University made a strong plea for interest of the progressive Western nations in the present economic problems of the Orient. Miss Julia Lathrop spoke tellingly of the Social Implications of International Relations; particularly of her experience and service in Europe with the (Child Welfare Committee of the League of Nations, pointing out that this committee has been active since its organization in 1925, especially in bettering the working conditions of children. For instance, in the Persian Rug industry it was found that little children sat daily in cramped positions, working on the lovely 'Persian rugs everyone admires, until their little limbs became so distorted that by and by they could not walk to work, but were carried, and worked as long as their little fingers could move. And then, when they died. As many of them did, other children were brought in to take their places. When Persia saw its neighbors actively interested, it at once took up the matter of bettering conditions. Miss Lathrop feels that our greatest opportunity in fostering internationalism lies in our relations with South American states, which are struggling for better social and political development. She mentioned especially Uruguary and Chile as having very good representatives in the Child Welfare Committee at Geneva. The United States Children's Bureau has already sponsored delegates to assist Chile in a conference on child welfare work at Santiago. The general conference of 1928 ended in a burst of applause when Porter R. Lee, president of the Conference for the coming year, was presented to the group and spoke some words of appreciation and confidence in the coming year's work. Then the cry, "On to San Francisco. In 1929," went up. The Conference adjourned in a feeling of general appreciation for the help given social workers by the conference this year. THE RELIEF SOCIETY OF THE CHURCH OF JESUS CHRIST OF LATTER-DAY SAINTS Motto—Charity Never Faileth THE GENERAL BOARD MRS. CLARISSA SMITH WILLIAMS::::: -: President MRS. JENNIE BRIMHALL KNIGHT - - - - - -. _ First Counselor MRS. LOUISE YATES ROBISON - - - - - Second Counselor MRS. AMY BROWN LYMAN - - - - - — Secretary and Treasurer Mrs. Emma A. Empey Mrs. Julia A. Child Mrs. Rosannah C. Irvine Mrs. Jeanette A. Hyde Mrs. Cora L. Bennion Miss Alice Louise Reynolds Miss Sarah M. McLelland Mrs. Julia A. F. Lund Mrs. Nettie D. Bradford Mrs. Annie Wells Cannon Mrs. Amy Whipple Evans Mrs, Elise B. Alder Mrs. Lalene H. Hart Mrs. Ethel Reynolds Smith Mrs. Inez K. Allen Mrs. Lotta Paul Baxter Mrs. Barbara Howell Richards Mrs. Ida P. Beal Mrs. Lizzie Thomas Edward, Music Director Miss Edna Coray, Organist RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Editor: - - - - - Clarissa SMITH WILLIAMS Associate Director: - Alice Louise Reynolds Assistant Manager - -: - - - - Amy Brown Lyman Room 28, Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah Magazine entered as second-class matter at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah
Vol. XV AUGUST, 1928 No. 8
EDITORIAL
Honor Fund for President Williams
An Honor Fund for President Williams, to be known as The Clarissa S. Williams Honor Loan Fund for Public Nurses, has been founded. One of our first experiences in Relief Society work was that of sitting at a graduation exercise of nurses in the General Board Room of the Relief Society, and watching the glow of interest on President Williams' face as those young women received their certificates of graduation. At all times suggestions providing opportunity for the training of nurses has elicited from her keen interest. This is largely due to the fact that she realizes that in the hands of trained nurses lies the weal or woe of countless mothers and children; for it is in the health and lives of these mothers and children that President Williams has at all times been vitally concerned. It was largely through her effort that a one-year course for nurse aids was established at the L. D. S. Hospital which promised much; but owing to advancing hospital standards, the hospital was notified that the one-year course must be discontinued. At a banquet given by the Stake Presidents for the General
420 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
Board during the April conference of 1896, Mrs. Mary A. Cutler, senior president of the Salt Lake Stakes, on behalf of the stakes of the Church, presented President Williams with $600.00 to found an Honor Fund in her name, to be known as the Clarissa S. Williams Honor Fund and to be used in any way she might designate. Frequently in the intervening time, President Williams had pondered the matter, yet had not been able to decide upon a project that entirely met her thoughts and feelings. Finally, an unusual number of applications for loans from the Public Health Nurse Loan Fund, already established by the General Board, made it necessary to seek further for money to meet the requests. A suggestion from Mrs. Amy Brown Lyman, General Secretary, to the effect that the Clarissa S. Williams Honor Fund be combined with the Public Health Nurse Loan Fund met with President Williams' hearty approval and likewise with the approval of her counselors. The matter was presented to the General Board, which followed Mrs. Lyman's recommendation that the Relief Society Public Health Nurse Loan Fund and the Clarissa S. Williams Honor Fund be combined and be known as the Clarissa S. Williams Honor Loan Fund for Public Health Nurses, making a fund of $2,650.00, and further that this fund be increased by the General Board from $2,650.00 to $3,000.00, the additional money to be taken from the Contingent fund of the Board and that a separate committee be appointed for this fund. It was moved by Counselor Jennie B. Knight and seconded by Amy W. Evans. The motion was carried unanimously. President Williams expressed her heartfelt appreciation for the honor conferred upon her by adding to her Honor Fund, the amount which had been originally appropriated for a Public Health Nurse Loan Fund. She stated that she could think of no other use to which the money might be put that would give her so much pleasure as to have a loan fund for hospital nurses desiring to take up public health nursing. President Williams appointed the committee to administer this fund. We feel sure that the announcement of the establishment of this fund will be most gratifying to Relief Society workers everywhere, not only because of its value, but because it is forward looking in the very highest sense of the word. Well trained public health nurses form a corps of new evangelists of the gospel of health, whose business it is to teach and protect health rather than restore when health is broken. Within the month we have read an editorial in a medical journal predicting that the time is not far distant when physicians would spend more time teaching than doing any other thing. The editor, himself a physician, stated that emphasis, in the future, will be placed on the art and science of teaching people
EDITORIAL 421
the laws of health—that they might know how to obtain and retain health. This ideal, if realized, would make the practice of medicine as we now know it almost superfluous. That the name of President Williams should be allied to a project that promises so much for the future, is a source of gratification to Relief Society workers.
The Primary Jubilee
INFLUENCE OF PRIMARY ASSOCIATIONS
Since the celebration of the 50th anniversary of the founding of the Primary Association, much has been said in relation to the influence that this organization has had upon the lives of outstanding men and women. We recall a story told by Dr. Harvey Fletcher, now prominent among American scientists, at a dinner where he was a guest just before he was engaged to do the work he is following with such signal success in the city of New York. Dr. Fletcher desired that there should be no misunderstanding on the part of the people who were about to request his services, as he wished them to know just who he was and just what he professed. They noticed that he did not drink nor smoke, and that tea and coffee were not on his list of indulgences. When asked how it came about, he said he was a "Mormon" boy, trained in "Mormon" institutions all his life, and that when a little child in the Primary Association, he was taught that tea and coffee, tobacco and liquor, were not good for people. The air has been full of complimentary and appreciative expressions for the beautiful program staged June 8, 9 and 10th in commemoration of the founding of the Primary Association, fifty years ago. The Relief Society is particularly interested in it as an achievement, planned, fostered and put over by women. It is true that some of the uninitiated doubted the ability of women to put over the two pageants and such an exhibition of fun and frolic as was seen from the bleachers of the stadium of the University of Utah on Saturday evening, June 9th, without the assistance of men, but these modern "doubting Thomases," like the one of scriptural fame, were convinced by seeing. Seeing is believing, and words of appreciation from many sources have not been lacking to describe this outstanding event in the history of this much beloved organization of children. We have heard many people praise its success in enthusiastic language; we know of those who have referred to it as 'magnificent from start to finish.' The words used do not make much difference; the main thing is the appreciation felt by those who took
422 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
part, and those who beheld it and in whom joyous thoughts and joyous feelings were aroused. We extend to the teachers of these children: the Ward presidents, Stake presidents and the General Board of the Primary Association and the Executive Committee of the Board, our heartiest congratulations.
PROGRAM IN THE TABERNACLE
The Tabernacle session of the Jubilee, with its well timed and well planned program, featuring the mother heart in a setting of color of the children's own creation, demonstrated once again that we are living in a new era, for not only is the mother heart with all its understanding and appreciation of the little things that go to make up a happy child life, supposed to function in the home, but it is supposed to function in the big outside world, and carry to all children, as far as possible, the blessings, so often in the past vouchsafed only to the few. In other words, every woman with a gift for doing or saying something that may enrich or assist children to be healthy, good and happy, is supposed to pool her knowledge for the good of all—that all children, as far as it is humanly possible, may enjoy those priceless blessings of life that Jesus, who loved little children, intended should be the heritage of all.
APPRECIATION BY RELIEF SOCIETY
The following letter was sent by the General Board of the Relief Society to the General Board of the Primary:
President May Anderson and Members of the General Board of the Primary Association, 39 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah.
Dear Sisters: I am directed by the General Board of Relief Society to extend to you the hearty congratulations of our board for your most successful and glorious jubilee, and to thank you most heartily and cordially for the reserved seats you so kindly furnished the members of the General Board of Relief Society. We feel that your jubilee was one of the most remarkable episodes which has been brought about by any of our Church groups. It was thrilling, entertaining and inspirational, as well as having real historical value. We wish you continued success.
Very Sincerely yours, In Behalf of the General Board of Relief Society. (Mrs.) Amy Brown Lyman, General Sec.
Helping the Adolescent to Develop a Wholesome Personality
By Elna Miller of the Extension Division of the Agricultural College of North Dakota
The problem of helping the adolescent boy or girl to develop a wholesome personality is one of the most important undertakings with which those of us who are interested in young people have to deal. The attitude and reactions toward life which are developed during these years, will largely determine the individual's success in his chosen profession, his success as a citizen, his success in marriage, and his success as a parent. If the child is to reach maturity with a possibility for a full realization of his best self, we must help the adolescent to solve his two most complex problems.
Two Great Problems of Youth
The first of these problems is, by a process of mental and emotional weaning, to break himself away from depending upon home ties. The second is to establish a wholesome attitude towards, and a desire for, successful mating and marriage relationship. We can best help the youth to solve these two great issues only by an understanding of the background which has influenced his development during the years of his childhood, as well as the changing conditions which are taking place during his adolescent years.
What is Adolescence?
Adolescence is often defined as a bridge which crosses the chasm between childhood and manhood. For ages past, these years have been looked upon as a period of great stress and strain for the parent; and we have failed to realize that it is one of far greater stress and strain for the child who is standing on the threshold of youth, struggling to emerge into manhood or womanhood. These are the years when the individual must test out the wholesomeness of his previous years. We cannot discuss the characteristics of the adolescent without looking back upon the ten or twelve years which have preceded this period; only thus can we acquaint ourselves with changes in the child's development. Life's changes are gradual and rhythmic. One period overlaps another so closely that it is difficult for one who is constantly with the child to recognize these changes. While we
424 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
cannot make any absolute rule stating that every child is in a definite period at a given age, yet we can make a general division which should help us to know how to deal with the child at different periods.
The Two Early Periods
One classification considers the child's development from the physical, the mental and emotional as well as the social and spiritual standpoints. It begins with infancy. During the first two years the child learns to sit up, to creep, to walk, and, in a limited manner, to talk. He should learn also the beginning of good food habits. The child's years from two to six are known as his language period. This is his time for forming good speech habits. He must learn the words that will help him express his thoughts. During this time the child must be given every opportunity possible to express himself. Children of this age should be seen and heard. This is also the chief period of habit formation and character training. The child must form the habits of proper food selection, of personal cleanliness, both internal and external, and of getting sufficient rest and exercise. In addition to these physical health habits, the child must learn the habits of mental health. He must develop habits of wholesome social relationship, and lay the foundation for his spiritual development.
Period of Experiments
The third period in the child's life—a direct outgrowth of his first five or six years and extending on to the tenth or twelfth year—is one of experimentation. He is concerned with testing life. Things seem somewhat vague and are not clear cut. The child struggles to see things clearly and is a stickler for facts. He is busy gathering the tools which he is to need in his adult years. He learns his rules, his tables and formulas. He is not so much concerned with reasons as he is with facts. His likes and dislikes change abruptly. One day he may have spurts of interest in one direction and the next day his interest takes an entirely different turn. Towards the end of this period the child emerges with the framework of his moral being rather well built. He should have acquired the fundamentals of character, such as truth, loyalty, honesty and other desirable qualities.
The Adolescent Age
After the period of tool gathering and experimenting, the child reaches the adolescent years and finds himself filled with a burning desire to try these tools out for himself. The years between twelve or fourteen and eighteen or twenty are likely to be filled with emotional conflicts. The
HELPING THE ADOLESCENT 425
child now loves to argue and is never satisfied until he is on the winning side. He bursts forth into flights of oratory. He is temperamental and trigger-tempered. One moment finds him acting like a man, the next day may find him crying like a child. He is inconsistent and inconstant. One minute he is prone to work and play beyond his strength and the next to be consumed with fatigue.
Introvert and Extrovert Types
Frequently the child is shy and self-conscious, particularly if he belongs to what is known as the introvert type. Introvert means turning inward, and the introvert individual is one who turns his thoughts inward. He shuns the limelight and does not meet people easily. He builds a wall about his personality to avoid contact with others. He feels deeply but cannot express himself. He keeps to himself much of the time, not because he does not like to be with people, but because he finds it difficult to be a good mixer. During the adolescent years we find the individual who is directly opposite from the introvert type. This we call the extrovert, which means turning outward. The extrovert has an open natured, active personality. He is self confident, a good mixer, and loves to show off. He puts forth great effort to make a favorable impression on the public. He is inclined to be self-centered and egotistical. Each of these types needs particular care during the adolescence. The quiet, retiring, self-conscious type needs encouragement in expressing himself, and much help in establishing self-confidence and self-esteem. The child of the opposite type may need a certain amount of careful suppression, lest he develop a personality too bold and overbearing.
Periods of Emotional Growth
Because of the complex emotional situation of these years, it is well to know the various periods in the emotional growth of the child. Every normal child passes through a period when the mother has the chief influence over his emotions, another when the father's influence is uppermost, and still another when the strongest influence comes from the school. While the boy and the girl each pass through these various stages, the age limits differ for the two sexes. The emotional phases for the girl may be classified as follows: From infancy until eight or nine years is the mother phase. From nine until fifteen years is the school phase. From fifteen until eighteen years is the father phase. From eighteen on is the mating phase. The boy's emotional periods are distributed in the following divisions:
426 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
Until seven or eight years is the mother phase. From eight to twelve is the father phase. From twelve to eighteen is the school phase. From eighteen on is the mating phase. These divisions are not always clear cut and the age at which they develop may vary a year or two, but in general, we may accept this division. To understand how best to help the child and also to know who can best help him at different ages in his development, is the problem.
Two Body-Types
Just as mental and emotional changes are most conspicuous during the adolescent years, so also are physical changes. Up to this time the child's growth has been rather steady and gradual, but now we find physical development taking uneven spurts. The child passes through a stage of awkwardness when he seems to be all legs and arms. His bad posture is due to poor muscular development; and this awkwardness increases his sensitiveness. With this rapid, outward, physical change, occur distinct changes in the body proportions. They take on two forms: the tall, thin child with the long legs and arms and short trunk; and the child with the long trunk and short arms and legs. The individual with the short trunk has small lungs and heart and a limited circulatory system. The intestine is short. The chest is inclined to be hollow, and the abdominal organs have a tendency to sag downward. This means more difficulty for the girl. This type tires much more easily and can stand less physical strain. The child with the shorter legs and arms and longer trunk has a larger heart and lungs and his circulation is better. He has a larger digestive tract with a long intestine. He usually has greater endurance than has the short-body type. The boy's voice at this time begins to take on a more masculine quality. This makes him more sensitive and self-conscious. The boy often starts a sentence in the shrill high pitched voice of a child and before he gets the sentence finished his voice is away down in a low pitched bass key.
Home Ties vs. Independence
We should first acquaint ourselves with some of the conditions which the adolescent has to face, as well as with the factors which have influenced his development before reaching these years. Then we shall be in a better position to know how to help the adolescent to develop a wholesome personality. With these facts in mind, we can provide the necessary environment and thus help the adolescent to solve his two complex problems: (1) breaking away from home ties and (2) establishing a wholesome attitude toward his love life.
HELPING THE ADOLESCENT 427
If the child is to develop his own personality he must have the apron strings loosened, so that his dependence upon home ties can be broken. During the adolescent period the child should be able to put away childish things; he should have left home, in feelings, by the time he is twenty. Many children grow up to the point of leaving the parental roof, and yet remain homesick for the rest of their lives. On the other hand, we find children who remain at home and because of careful training are able to outgrow their feeling of dependence upon the parents and the home. This process of breaking away from home ties does not in any way mean running away from home, nor showing disrespect for parents and home. It means that the child is arriving at the point where he can live his own life, think for himself, and make his own decisions. He is no longer to rely absolutely upon parents to make his life plans. The wise parent will advise and direct so that the child will make his own decisions.
Train in Self-Reliance
The best age to start this process of mental and emotional weaning is during the mother phase in the child's emotional growth; that is during the first eight or nine years. During these years the child should be given every opportunity to rely upon himself and to become independent. He should learn to dress himself, to care for his personal belongings, to keep his toys in order and to do such other things as are well within his ability. At this age, on many things the child can use his own power of decision. Bobbie may well be left to decide whether he should wear the blue or the tan blouse, the striped or the plain stockings. Likewise, Betty should be consulted as to whether the new dress is to be pink or yellow and whether it should be plain or ruffled.
The Real Mother
The mother who is more interested in the child's welfare than in her own emotional indulgence, will help him to tear himself away from his mother's emotional life. No crippling bandage should remain to fetter his independent action. The petted and pampered child, whose mother is overanxious, is prevented from developing independence both of thought and of action. The child should so develop that he will take his place beside others. In the adolescent period the child is beyond the point where he enjoys taking orders and having set plans made for him. He must have freedom to develop his own interests, to discover for himself, to experiment, and even to make mistakes. The adolescent youth feels himself ready for responsibility. He wants to be accepted as a grown person and to break the habits of parental domination. He is ready to strike out for himself. This is the
428 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
time for parents and teachers to take their hands off, and let him demonstrate this power of shifting for himself. Because of parents' eagerness to protect them, boys and girls are often prevented from being themselves. A typical example is revealed in the following plea from a vivacious young thing who demands her chance to become an individual:
A Daughter Speaks Out
"Why don't mothers understand youth?' the girl's letter reads. "Can't they remember that they were girls once? Or weren't mothers ever seventeen? Don't you think a senior in high school should ever think for herself? Mother dictates every move I make. She tells me when to practice my music, when to study my algebra, and when to go to bed. She even tells me how to wash dishes and where to put them away, just as though I hadn't done them for my whole lifetime. I hate them all because mother is always telling me when and how to do things.
"I shouldn't mind doing what mother dictates if she would ever let me do anything I want to do. I wanted to work in the drug store after school to earn some spending money for myself so I wouldn't have to account to mother for everything, but she refused to let me for fear I'd meet 'some questionable salesman and run away with him.
"Instead of having an allowance of my own, I have to ask mother for every cent and then tell her what I intend to spend it for. I can't even buy an ice cream cone without giving a tearful account of it.
"Mother even wants to choose all my friends. I never feel safe in having girls come to the house because mother sits in the room all the time and monopolizes all the conversation, or else she sits in the next room and eavesdrops on every word. She even wants to answer all the questions anyone asks me. I can't have a boy friend come to the house and I can never go to a party with one without a frightful scene.
"Mother is suspicious of me all the time. She opens all my letters and decides whether I shall see them. When I get little notes from the girls, she accuses me of trying to put something over on her.
"Mother says she is doing all this to protect me from the world. I don't want to be protected. Neither do I want to be bad, but can't a girl of seventeen be good and be happy at the same time? I just want to have freedom to live my own life, to make my own decisions, and to use my own mind. Mother has controlled my mind for so long that I feel as though I have very little mind of my own left.
To Prevent One-Sidedness
"I love mother dearly, and I don't want to make her un-
HELPING THE ADOLESCENT 429
happy; but I must have a chance to grow and to try out some things in life for myself. I want to have a personality of my own, and not live out all my years just being mother's shadow."
How many more boys and girls are suffering from such domination and yet are keeping all their pent-up emotions to themselves! During this period, by increasing his interests outside the home, we can do much toward helping the child to become an independent individual. His social contacts should be increased. He should be encouraged in group organizations such as scout work or camp-fire boys and girls clubs and similar organizations. These provide for self expression and prevent the child from becoming too self-centered. A broad interest in good music, in good literature, or in beautiful works of art, will prevent a one-sided development.
Preparation for Love-Life
To develop a desirable state of mind towards the mating phase of one's life, is a task quite as complex as is that of breaking away from parental bondage. Its success depends, quite extensively, on the degree to which the child is able to escape from the emotional home ties. Here again we must refer back to the period in the child's emotional development which we called the mother phase. If the mother has left too many emotional wrappings about the child during this period, the adolescent boy or girl has much difficulty in making healthy associations with individuals of the opposite sex. The mother who has monopolized the child's emotional life during the mother phase to such an extent that the child enjoys her association to the exclusion of friends of his own age, is doing much toward thwarting the normal development of the child's love-life. Mothers often beam with pride as they say "Richard is mother's sweetheart. He would much rather take mother out for a good time than girls of his own age," or "Alice and I are just like sisters. I never worry about her because she always wants to be with me. She is not interested in other girls, and I am so glad that she has no use for boys." Mothers who really understand the needs of boys and girls of this age will encourage Richard to take other girls to an occasional show and will widen Alice's circle to include both boys and girls of her own age whenever possible. The petted child who is too closely connected with his mother is unable to make the simplest human adjustments required by the transfer of affections to the boy or girl outside the home family.
What Youth Should Know
Since the adolescent is what he is by virtue of his childhood, it is much less of a problem to provide a wholesome environment
430 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
for him at this critical time if we have paved the way from his earliest years. The mother who has kept faith with her child has kept the child's confidence, so that she has less difficulty in helping him make the necessary adjustments during these changing years. Before the pronounced physical changes take place, the boy and girl should be informed as to what these changes mean. The parent who has kept the child's confidence by answering all of the child's questions from his earliest years, has no difficulty in presenting these fundamental facts of life. The time to do this is while the child is still in the questioning stage, before he reaches the years when he is self-conscious and is less interested in facts than he is in sensations. The girl must be prepared for the process of menstruation before her figure shows signs of change. She should understand that this is a perfectly normal function which should give her no discomfort nor pain, provided she is in a state of positive health with her muscles firm and well developed and her blood and digestion what they should be. This period should not be looked upon as a sick time. The girl should refrain from strenuous physical activity, but a small amount of exercise during these days is far better than none at all. Personal cleanliness is more important at this time than at any other.
Clean and Wholesome
The girl must have the proper food habits well established. She must know the value of perfect cleanliness, both internal and external. She should not only know what healthful clothing and shoes are, but she should wear this kind. The girl should learn to feel that her responsibility to future generations is to maintain a clean, strong, healthy body, so that the life stream may pass on through her, unhampered by physical defects. Before the boy's voice begins to deepen, he should know the changes he may expect. He must know his contribution in living a clean, wholesome life and must become perfectly familiar with the essentials of hygiene.
Conserving This Strength
It is necessary both for the boy and for the girl to know and to practice all the rules of the health game. Since there is a great tendency during these years to work and play far beyond their physical strength, they must provide for sufficient rest. It is during these years that so many extra activities aside from their school work loom up to sap their vitality and there is great danger of neglecting to get sufficient sleep and rest. There is no other time during the growing period, after the first year or two, when weight is quite such an important
HELPING THE ADOLESCENT 431
factor. Most of our tuberculosis develops during the years between twelve and twenty. It is the underweight boy or girl who may contract this disease. Girls are more susceptible than boys of this age because girls are more likely to be underweight. The present craze among girls to retain a boyish figure through a process of unbalanced dieting, accompanied by wearing too few clothes, seems to be responsible for a good deal of tuberculosis among our young girls. Boys and girls of those years should be from ten to fifteen pounds overweight in order to build up sufficient resistance against infectious diseases during these critical years.
Encourage Group Fun
About this time the girl takes a keener interest in boys and in clothes and thinks less of games and physical activities. Because of this development, it is well to encourage group fun involving both boys and girls. She needs much association with boys during these years if she is to develop a healthy attitude toward adult responsibilities; but it should be both boys and girls, rather than a pairing off with any single boy during the early adolescent years. If she is to make a successful choice as to her life mate, she must have an opportunity to know many different types of personalities. The boy, likewise, is beset with emotional changes. He should understand that he will have a new need for self-control. He will have new sensations and different feelings toward girls than he has ever had before. He must be encouraged in group activities. Athletics and different types of competitive games afford a desirable safety valve as an outlet for the boy's new emotional sensations.
Do Not Trifle With Youth
During this period we should encourage group fun. If the girl's interest in boys is made light of, or likewise if the boy who shows an interest in girls is teased over the situation, we are defeating our purpose of developing the proper attitude between the sexes. If we are to help the adolescent with the second of his two greatest problems, we shall encourage wholesome associations between boys and girls. It is not always necessary, nor even desirable, to have evident adult supervision over all parties involving both boys and girls. If we have been careful in building our foundation for this period, we can well take our hands off and give youth a chance to assert itself. Too many restrictions prevent a full realization of the individual's best self. The individual who feels that his parents have faith and trust in him, is far less inclined to overstep the bounds of propriety than is the one who feels that he is constantly being guarded and watched over.
Eliza R. Snow Memorial Poem Announcement, 1928
The memorial shall be known as the Eliza Roxey Snow Prize Memorial Poem, and shall be awarded by the Relief Society annually.
Rules of the Contest
1. This contest is open to all Latter-day Saint women, but only one poem may be submitted by each contestant. Two prizes will be awarded, a first prize, consisting of $20, and a second prize, consisting of $10.
2. The poem should not exceed fifty lines, and should be typewritten, if possible; where this cannot be done, it should be legibly written, and should be without signature or other identifying marks.
3. Only one side of the paper should be used.
4. Each contestant guarantees the poem submitted to be her original work, that it has never been published, that it is not now in the hands of any editor, or other person, with a view of publication, and that it will not be published nor submitted for publication until the contest is decided.
5. Each poem must be accompanied with a stamped envelope, on which should be written the contestant's name and address. Nom de plumes should not be used.
6. No member of the General Board, nor persons connected with the office force of the Relief Society, shall be eligible to this contest.
7. The judges shall consist of one member of the General Board, one person selected from the English department of a reputable educational institution, and one from among the group of persons who are recognized as writers.
8. The poem must be submitted not later than October 15. The prize poems will be published each year in the January issue of the Relief Society Magazine. Other poems of merit, not winning special awards, will receive honorable mention; the editors claiming the right to publish any poems submitted, the published poems to be paid for at the regular Magazine rates. All entries should be sent to Alice L. Reynolds, Associate Editor, Relief Society Magazine, 20 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah, not later than October 15.
Notes From the Field
By Amy Brown Lyman
Salt Lake Stake (Mothers' Festival). Congratulations are due Mrs. Elizabeth C. Williams, president of the Salt Lake Stake Relief Society, and her co-workers for the excellent record made during the year; also for the successful mothers' pageants held in each of the wards in May. In order to increase the membership in the various wards, and to encourage the young mothers to attend, it was decided by the stake board when the year's program was outlined in September, ae to adopt a stake slogan and to hold a mothers' festival in ay. The slogan was, "Every mother a member in the Relief Society." The stake, together with each of the 13 wards, had banners tastefully decorated with the above inscription and placed in all of the ward chapels and Relief Society rooms. A topic on this subject was also incorporated in the ward Relief Society conferences during the past year. In order to help finance the program for the mothers' festival, a stake bazaar was held May 4th, in which all wards participated. One feature of the afternoon was a drawing for attendance prizes, the articles being donated by local business houses in the stake. This event was cleverly conducted by Mr. Ben Erway of the Wilkes Theatre. In the evening a most creditable entertainment was given. The musical program was presented by some of the best local talent in the city. A one-act play, "So's Your Aunt Anna," was given by stake and ward members. This brought out unusual talent which will be of future service to the stake. The net proceeds of the bazaar were $160.00. Each ward was given tickets to sell and the wards were allowed 50% of the proceeds. _In preparation for the mothers' festival each ward was given a suggestive program and letter of instructions, together with copies of the ladies' trio, "Mother," composed by Alfred M. Durham of the 17th ward Bishopric and dedicated to the Salt Lake Stake Relief Society, also lists of mother stories for retold stories, and games for the kindergarten group. On the appointed day everything was-in readiness.~ The ward amusement halls were all tastefully decorated with palms and plants. Booths of art work made at the work and business meetings were upon exhibit. The visiting teachers were most gracious as reception committees. WOMEN WHO HAVE HAD CONTINUOUS MEMBERSHIP IN THE SALT LAKE STAKE RELIEF SOCIETY FROM FIFTY TO SIXTY YEARS Back row—left to right: Sarah C. Folsom, Eliza Thomas, Frances Wallace, Ethelwynne Pratt. Front row —left to right: Lucinda Ure, Hettie Davis, Emma Taylor, Effie M. Ashton — NOTES FROM THE FIELD 435 The following program was carried out in each ward: 1:30—Reception by 'Ward and Stake Officers. 1:55—Music: Ward organist—Lullaby music. Program—2:00 O'clock Singing: Congregation. Prayer. Music. Welcome: Ward President—5 minutes. Music. Short retold story: Ward Literary Teacher—10 minutes. The Glory of Motherhood: Stake Board member—5 minutes. Music. Short Drama: "Cornelia" (Relief Society Magazine, November, 1926—30 minutes). Music Presentation of prizes. (a) Oldest mother present. (b) Youngest mother present. (c) Mother with largest family present. (d) Mother with husband or children on missions. (e) Mothers who had given the greatest number of missionaries to the Church. (f) Mother making the best Relief Society attendance record during 1927-1928. (g) Stake prize for mother present with the longest membership record in Relief Society in Salt Lake. Stake. (h) Stake cash prize to the wards having the greatest number of new members (on percentage basis) from September, 1927, to May 15, 19281lst prize $7.00; 2nd prize $5.00; 3rd prize $3.00 to the ward having the best attendance at Union meeting. Grand march of mothers, led by those who have borne the most children. Presentation of mother cards (furnished by stake board) by Mutual or Primary girls. Light refreshments (served cafeteria style). Doxology. Benediction. The results and total count showed the following: Mothers present 1,500 Grandmothers 500 500 Great Grandmothers.......... 105 Great great Grandmothers..................... 3 Oldest mother present—age........... 88 436 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Youngest mother present—age............ 17 Mothers who had filled missions................ 25 Mothers who had had the longest continuous membership in Salt Lake Stake Relief Society: Mrs. Hettie Davis...........66 years Lucinda Ure...62 " "Ethelwynne Pratt............Eliza Thomas............ 54 Frances Wallace............ Sarah C. Folsom.............50 Emma Taylor............ Effie M. Ashton..........50 When it was found that there were eight women who had had over fifty years membership in Salt Lake Stake, the stake board was more than delighted to give eight gifts instead of one. The wards having the greatest number of new members with paid up dues (on percentage basis) from September, 1927, to May 15, 1928, and receiving prizes, were: 17th Ward 1st prize—38 new members. 14th Ward 2nd prize—l9 new members. 23rd Ward 3rd prize—Most perfect attendance at Union meeting. The total number of new members in all wards was 138. As a surprise to the ward presidents each was given a prize as the Mother of the Relief Society. One ward presented the Bishop with a gift as the Father of the ward. The festival was the most successful and inspiring activity in the history of the stake; as a result, many old members have renewed their activities in the various wards. One factor which contributed to the great success of the festival was the careful planning by the stake board. The following suggestions were sent out far in advance of the festival date— May 115: 1. Secure the use of the amusement hall. Have a booth of articles that have been made at your work and business meeting on exhibition. Decorate hall. 2. Have nothing gloomy and sad in this program. 3. Feature mother songs and lullaby music. 4, Invite all mothers of the ward regardless of creed. 5. Have nursery arranged in another part of the building for small children (Stake recreational leader will provide suggestive games for this group; also assist you with the drama. Enlist the cooperation of M. I. A. Girls). 6. Arrange for gifts, for prizes, and for souvenirs of the NOTES FROM THE FIELD 437 day for each mother present, such as flowers, candy, mother cards, etc. 7. Send a gift to the mothers who are home-bound, or who are absent because of illness. 8. Honor those who have taken children to rear just as though they had borne them. 9. Secure the gifts for prizes by having some of the articles made at your work and business meeting, or at a specially appointed work day. (Stake art teacher will have suggestions for you). 10. Collect contributions from business houses in your wards, and ask the Bishop to cooperate with you in raising funds for this occasion. Funds may also be secured from the sale of tickets for the stake entertainment, May 4, 1928. 11. Have the gifts and prizes wrapped and numbered the day before the festival. 12> Ask each pair of teachers to prepare a complete list of mothers in their district and hand to you at the work and business meeting in April. The teachers should also have a copy with them at the festival and act as a reception committee, each teacher paying special attention to those from her district. 13. All Relief Society officers and visiting teachers should be at the meeting house at 1:30 p. M. 14. A stake board member will be assigned to each ward to help carry forward this program. Report to her the day of the festival the number of new members enrolled since September, 1927. 15. The stake music department will provide list of suitable musical numbers; the stake literary leader will assist in preparing suitable story if desired. 16. The visiting teachers' leaflet for May will be devoted to the festival, and will convey an invitation to all mothers in the ward. 17. See that announcements are made at Sacrament meetings regarding the festival. A leaflet was distributed by the teachers the first week in May, with the following inscription and invitation: "Mother's Day is a pretty idea which has taken root in our country and seems destined to grow.' It was Miss Ann Jarvis of Philadelphia who succeeded in getting a day set apart as a national Mother's Day. It is a day when every man, woman and child should honor his mother in some way. "The Salt Lake Stake Relief Society has set apart May 15th for a Mother's Festival in your ward to honor our mothers. We desire the attendance of every woman in the ward that we may rejoice together in the bonds of love and friendship, and mingle 438 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE our voices in song and thanksgiving for the greatest of all human responsibilities—that of motherhood." REORGANIZATIONS European Mission. Mrs. Leah D. Widtsoe, wife of President John A. Widtsoe of the European mission, was appointed president of the Relief Societies of this mission the first of the year, succeeding Mrs. May Booth Talmage, who, with her husband, President James E. Talmage, was honorably released from missionary labors in Europe. Immediately upon her appointment, Mrs. Widtsoe set about to plan for the 'year's work. She first sent out a circular letter of greeting to all the branch societies, and arranged that instructions and suggestions would be sent out from time to time in the Auxiliary Guide, a copy of which accompanied her letter. The Guide is a neat mimeographed paper filled with instructions and items of interest to the auxiliary organizations in" Europe. Through the courtesy of President Widtsoe the Millennial Star of March 15 was devoted largely to the work of the Relief Society and the work of the women of the Church, containing articles by Mrs. Widtsoe, and an editorial by President Widtsoe. It was called the "Anniversary Number" in honor of the anniversary of the Society which occurred March 17. Mrs. Widtsoe is visiting the branches of the Relief Society as time permits, and is enthusiastic in her reports of the excellent work of the Relief Societies of Europe. European Mission —London District. The 86th anniversary of the organization of the Relief Society was commemorated in the London District, March 18th. Relief Society meetings were held in the South London and Holloway branches, while the St. Albans and Watford Societies -held their meetings conjointly in the Watford branch hall. The evening was well spent and a goodly number were in attendance at all of the meetings. A suitable and well arranged program was ably carried out. Some of the subjects of the discourses delivered were: "The organization of the Relief Society, Work Accomplished, 'System of Work, Courses of Study for 1927 and for 1928." Special mention was made of the "Relief Society Efficiency Chart," instituted during the month of February, which has stimulated much interest in the several societies and from the summed up totals, an average check rates a high record of efficiency. Special mention should be made also of the fact that about 65% of those attending meetings regularly had read 10 pages of the Book of Mormon each week during the month of February. Reports were given of the good work that has been done in the past year—especially the charitable assistance rendered NOTES FROM THE FIELD 439 during the Winter season. Strong and convincing testimonies were borne by the sisters, each testifying of the joy that has come through administering to the wants of the suffering and those who are in need. Special musical numbers were given, and at the close of the meetings each went his way rejoicing to {know what a marvelous work and a wonder is being done by the faithful sisters of the Relief Society. Due to the great distance of travel, it is impossible for the women of this district to make regular monthly visits, but in most cases each of the members is visited monthly. Australian Mission. Mrs. Carrie S. Hyde, president of the Relief Societies of the Australian mission, writes in part as follows: "I have just returned from a trip around the districts of the mission, visiting all the Relief Society organizations, covering nearly 8,000 miles in the journey. During the early months of each year, conferences are held throughout the mission, which gives me the opportunity of visiting among the sisters and assisting them so far as I am able in their work in the Relief Societies. All of them are taking up the theological studies and are caring for the needy. JI found the sisters who are presiding in the organizations enjoying a good spirit, anxious to keep pace with the work and willing to accept suggestions. I was able to introduce in one or two of our organizations the child welfare work, and we have sent for the books necessary to carry on this work. I believe this study will soon be general throughout the mission. I was very much gratified with the general condition of the Societies and grateful for the opportunity of doing my bit toward their advancement." Northern States Mission. With the release of Mrs. Rachel Grant Taylor, Mrs. Allie Y. Pond, wife of President Noah F. Pond, was appointed to preside over the (Relief Societies of the mission. Mrs. Taylor has left the organizations in excellent condition, and the work is going forward in an efficient manner under the new president. Utah Stake. On June 2, 1928, the Utah Stake Relief Society was reorganized. Mrs. Electa S. Dixon was honorably released as president. And Mrs. Achsa E. Paxman was appointed to succeed her. Among other things, Mrs. Dixon has accomplished some outstanding health work, which will stand as a monument to her administration. It was by good cooperative work of Mrs. Dixon and the other Utah County Relief Society presidents, and the State Board of Health, that a county health unit was established 440 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE in Utah county. Mrs. Paxman has for the last two sessions been a member of the Utah State Legislature, sitting in the House of Representatives. Yellowstone Stake. The Yellowstone stake Relief Society was reorganized on June 10, 1928. Mrs. Lucy P. Lloyd resigned as president on account of change of residence, and was honorably released, with appreciation for her excellent and faithful service. Mrs. Ellen J. Murri was appointed president, with Mrs. Mary A. White and Mrs. Adrena W. Young as counselors, and Mrs. Elva Orme as secretary-treasurer. Fremont Stake. On June 17, the Fremont Stake Relief Society was reorganized. Mrs. Marie M. Merrill, who has moved from the stake, was honorably released, and Mrs. IM. May Grover was appointed to succeed her. Mrs. Grover's counselors are Mrs. Artemesia Romney and Mrs. Nora Davis, and her secretary treasurer, Mrs. Jessie Atkinson. Mrs. Grover has served as secretary under Mrs. Merrill and is familiar with the good work done by Mrs. Merrill and her assistants, and with their plans for the future of the stake. Eastern States Mission. The Relief Society of the New York branch held a concert on March 22nd in the Chamber Music Room of Carnegie Hall in honor of the anniversary of the organization. The artists for the occasion were John Parish, tenor, and Samuel Harwell, pianist —both former residents of Salt Lake City. An informal reception followed the concert. The officers of the New York Relief Society are Mrs. Marian C. Bennion, president; Miss Lorena C. Fletcher and Mrs. Jennie C. Stoddard, counselors; and Mrs. Donnette K. McAllister, secretary-treasurer. The guests of honor on this occasion were: President and Mrs. Henry H. Rolapp, Miss Lola Bradford, president of the Relief Societies of the Eastern States mission, Mrs. Lydia Newcomb, president Brooklyn Relief Society, Mrs. Cora Ameling, president Newark Relief Society and Mrs. Minnie Lange, president Hoboken Relief Society. The patrons included a large group of Utah people now residents of New York City. A neat program was arranged for the event. Guide Lessons for October LESSON I Theology and Testimony (First Week in October) PROJECTS CONCLUDED I. The Adjustability of Projects. Gospel aims are eternal. The joy of man is the aim of his existence. It is a divine purpose, an everlasting objective in the mind of the Eternal. The Book of Mormon declares the existence of man to be joy (II Nephi 2:25) and Jesus set forth the same truth when he said, "I am that ye might have life and and that ye might have it more abundantly." (John 10:10). The word "joy" is the shortest and most comprehensive symbol of the abundant life. Joy is a kind of happiness of which it may be said, "once happy, always happy." It is enjoyment, the anticipation of which is happiness, the presence of which is happiness and the memory of which is happiness. All purposes pointing toward; and all projects pushing along lines not parallel with the great gospel aim, lead away from the abundant life; and the farther one goes on one of these tangent lines, the more abject the poverty of life. Projects for lowering standards are always bad. The projects for reaching the ever-present and truth-anchored aim, the abundant life, have been expanded, modified, and changed to meet conditions. Note the growth and adjustability of the great missionary project—one in purpose but many in its means and methods—once a few men without purse or scrip, now men and women, thousands of them, carrying the message of life, spiritual life, moral life, intellectual life, and physical life, in rich abundance. Once limited to holding conversation by the wayside as did Jesus at the well, (John 6) now speaking to millions over the radio, as did the Father over his radio to the Nephites when he introduced to them the resurrected Redeemer. (III Nephi 11.) Once the missionaries walked the dusty road as did the apostles with Jesus; now we hear of them outspeeding the wind above the clouds to fill a missionary appointment. Gospel projects are the machinery of salvation and must be adjustable to the people and to their conditions. They are the roadway to reach the top of the mountain of joy and must curve and wind to make a grade suited to the climber's capacity. The onwardness of a project may include temporary halts
442 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
as well as the making of detours. The line of march which Jehovah marked out for ancient Israel under the leadership of Moses is vividly illustrative of the necessity of project adjustability. Forty years they were getting from Egypt to Jericho, a distance which a camel can walk in a few days.
II. The Fruits of Projects. This is not only a great listening age, but an age of looking as well. We still go to the heart-beat for information, but we use the X-rays also. The telephone communication is not enough, we want television. The project of producing Christian character must result in meeting the condition of the hour when the thinking world is more interested in the fruits than in the roots of the tree life, when doing is of more importance than doctrine. And this condition is in perfect keeping with the leadership of him who said, "by their fruits ye shall know them." When this dispensation sign of salvation was first put up, the world threw rocks at it and smeared it with mud; its showcase was empty. Now at the close of its first century of existence, its windows blaze with diamonds. They are lent to the world, and glisten from high places in government, in education, in the professions and industries; they sparkle on the belt of middle class leadership; so that far and wide when one asks, "What good comes from 'Mormonism'?" the answer is read, "Look and see!" Judged by the samples sent out, the Christian character making power of this gospel dispensation, is indeed a "marvel and a wonder." These samples are not the product of any one project of the dispensation, but rather the output of many projects: home projects, Priesthood projects, Relief Society projects, Sunday School projects, Church School projects, Mutual Improvement projects, Primary projects, and Genealogical projects; each with its specific purposes and all with a common interest and a universal aim; each in competition with itself and in cooperation with all the others. The high aims, the superior operative characteristics of its organization, and the effectiveness of its projects, are indisputable evidence that Latter-day Saint Church building is character building; it is Christian character building, for it is a kingdom building, that of this world, but not of this world alone.
III. The Home Beautiful Project. In the production of character, three great forces are constantly operative: example, instruction, and environment, and of the environment the home is fundamental. In the order of progress, we have the home protective, then
NOTES FROM THE FIELD 443
the home plentiful, then the home comfortable, then the home beautiful. The scenic beauty of our Zion's center of population has put the homes of the Saints in the show case of the world, as the endless procession of tourists pass along our highways; Zion is known by her buildings and their surroundings. It must not be forgotten that paint spells prosperity, and that well-kept yards smile and tell of culture. The home beautiful is an essential part of the Zion building. We sing, "Let Zion in her beauty rise," but the home beautifier says, "See Zion in her beauty rise." The home beautiful is called for by the example of the Church in its temple buildings and the temple grounds. Each of the houses of the Lord has its individual architecture and its fitting surrounding, but they are all alike in being beautiful. The influence of example is added to by instruction; and these two, reinforced by project activity, reach objective with the greatest speed. Industrial interests have projects for home-building; commercial interests have projects for home conveniences, comforts, and luxuries; and these projects are pushed to the limit of safety. And some efforts are being made in the line of education in the direction of having beautiful homes in beautiful settings—that our Zion may be a fitting symbol of the bride, not only in its character but in its apparel also. Every L. D. S. Home is a part of the attire of the Church.
Questions and Problems
1. Why must aims be fixed?
2. Why must projects be adjustable?
3. Wherein is joy more than happiness?
4. Discuss the demand of the world to see results rather than to listen to gospel doctrine?
5. What are the indisputable proofs that Latter-day Saint Church building is a form of superior Christian character-building?
6. Speak five minutes on the topic, "It pays to paint."
7. How do Latter-day Saint temples and temple grounds point to the truth that beautification is an essential part of Zion-building?
8. In what respect is every Latter-day Saint home a part of the attire of the Church?
9. Discuss (a) The need of a home beautiful project in the Church; (b) The organization best adapted to put such a project on foot and put it over.
444 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
LESSON II Work and Business (Second Week in October)
TEACHERS' TOPIC FOR OCTOBER—THE HOME
The Home as a Social Center
"I do not believe that this nation has ever produced in its history a finer type of youth than the present generation, but I am convinced that society, the home, and the school are not measuring up to the responsibilities which rightfully belong to them."—Judge Fred R. Morgan of the Juvenile Court, Salt Lake City.
I. Among the family group. A. Agreeable conversation. B. Music. C. Games. D. Well planned social periods. E. Proper use of meal times as social periods. F. Special programs.
II. For association with friends. A. The home a place for friendships and mutual visits. B. Encourage children to entertain friends at home. C. Group parties. Facilities for entertaining. Interest in the group. Hospitality. Suggestive programs for entertaining groups of different ages, delightful and in keeping with L. D. S. Ideals.
"Make the home the most dignified, attractive, and charming place to be found. The place to rush to, rather than to rush from—a place of arrival rather than a place of departure. A place fulfilling every noble desire."—Elder Stephen L. Richards.
Robert Colley Angell, in the March number of the Forum, just off the press, in an article entitled, "Roots of College Evils," has this to say on this subject:
"Nowadays, the parents, distracted by other duties and absorbed in their own pleasures, turn the larger share of the task of education over to the schools; while the children do not find the learning process adventurous enough to compete with the more colorful pursuits at hand. * * * A quiet evening in the family circle, talking, reading, or playing games, is a rare exception in modern American life. Parents as well as children find their amusement elsewhere after the evening meal."
GUIDE LESSONS FOR OCTOBER 445
LESSON III Literature (Third Week in October)
BERTHA A. KLEINMAN
Bertha A. Kleinman was born in a part of Salt Lake City familiar to many of our readers. It was in the region of the 18th ward, taking in the hills that in her childhood were carpeted with wild flowers and that followed the trail of City Creek to the old mill—a place regarded with awe and delight by the children who listened to the whirr of the big wheel and saw the crystal waters of City Creek splash over it. The details of this sketch have been furnished by Mrs. Kleinman's mother. We follow these details rather closely; but before making use of the biographical material, we wish to pay tribute to Mrs. Kleinman for the recognition she has received in various magazines of the country. She is certainly one of the best known poets of this intermountain region, one of whom we are sure the State of Arizona is justly proud, for her poems have been published in Harper's Bazar, The Ladies' Home Journal, Little Folks, Out West, Pacific Coast Musician, Our Dumb Animals, The Classmate, The Quarterly Review, Child's Garden, The Boy's Comrade, The Young American, The National Conservation Bulletin; recently eight were accepted for the new Latter-day Saints' Hymnology. Her mother writes: "She was born October 1, 1877, on the brow of the hill overlooking City Creek Canyon. Her favorite haunts were the canyon and hills about. Her father, James Anderson, was of Danish descent, one of Utah's pioneers, who emigrated to Utah as a young man, walking the entire distance across the plains. Her mother, Eliza Clissold Anderson, emigrated with her parents from Birmingham, England, as a little girl of twelve." In the name of our poet, Bertha Eliza, we recognize her mother's name; yet that same mother assures us that the thought in naming her was not only that she should retain her mother's name, but that she should be called after Eliza Roxey Snow, the distinguished writer of Latter-day Saint hymns. Whether there is anything in a name or not is perhaps a matter of conjecture; however that may be, it would seem that the spirit of Eliza R. Snow has been with Mrs. Kleinman; for, like her famed predecessor, she has written many songs and is now the author of a group of Latter-day Saint hymns. She tells us that Apostle Orson F. Whitney, himself a poet and her bishop when she lived in Salt Lake, has been a great inspiration to her and that John Nicholsen, a neighbor, who discovered her
446 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
talent for verse writing at a very early age, did much to encourage her. Her first poem was published in one of the earliest numbers of the Young Woman's Journal when Susa Young Gates was its editor. Bertha was then only twelve years of age. Mrs. Gates wrote her a letter, explaining somewhat the technique of metrical composition. "After thirty-five years," says Mrs. Kleinman's mother, "I find it still preserved in her scrapbook. She says it has been of more value to her than all the treatises on Rhetoric, or the lexicons of synonyms and rhymes that are the guides of students today." "She first went to school in the old adobe school house just within the Eagle Gate—the school house erected by President Young for his own children. Here she wrote her first poem upon her slate; this was a eulogy of her fellow students, and it received favorable comment from her teachers, Dr. Ada B. Faust and Gideon M. Mumford, who did much to encourage her childish efforts." To follow her mother's narrative: "At the age of thirteen she graduated from the 18th ward L. D. S. Seminary and was chosen class poet and Valedictorian. At the age of eighteen she graduated from the L. D. S. College, having received her Certificate in Kindergarten training from the Brigham Young University of Provo. For two years she taught under the Utah Kindergarten Association, then again entered the L. D. S. College for a course in Business Training, taking a position in the Presiding Bishop's Office at the end of a few months. She was the first girl to enter the employ of the Presiding Bishopric and retained her position for seven years, at which time she married." The union was with Orson C. Kleinman, a member of a well known Arizona family and an employee of the Utah Idaho Sugar Company. Elder Kleinman had but recently returned from a mission to Germany. His main business interests as a cattle man, were in Arizona; so they sold their home in Salt Lake and moved to Mesa, where they have since resided. Undoubtedly Mrs. Kleinman has been a very real asset to the community in which she has lived these many years. She is now the mother of four stalwart sons and two lovely daughters, who have been the chief source of her inspiration through the busy years of home-building and community service. Her tribute to them she has often expressed in the words, "I have everything to do to live up to my children." "Always an ardent worker in the auxiliary organizations, Mrs. Kleinman has taught in every department of the Sunday School, being an officer of both ward and Stake before her marriage, in the 18th, 10th and 33rd wards. For three years she was Kindergarten Supervisor of the Sunday Schools of
GUIDE LESSONS FOR OCTOBER 447
Liberty Stake, was also first counselor in the Y. L. M. I. A. to President Lotta Paul Baxter, for whom she formed a lifelong friendship. In the Emerson ward she was a Primary executive for two years. During her residence in Mesa, she has taught in the Relief Society and Primary, and for two years has been an executive in the Stake Primary. She has served seven years on the Y. L. M. I. A. Stake Board, and is now first counselor to President Lisana Brimhall in its Presidency. "In a civic way, she has always been active, being Publicity chairman of the Musician's Club for three years, and chairman of the Legislative and Applied Education Departments of the Woman's Club of Mesa for the past three years. During that time she has also been Secretary of the Mesa Commercial Club, stenographer of the Mesa Rotary Club, and Librarian of the Mesa City Library—positions which she recently resigned when appointed as Assistant Recorder of the Arizona Temple. Her work has been addressed to all walks of life. She is never too hurried to pen her contribution—her toast, her measure of consolation—and no one, from the tiniest child or the humblest supplicant, has ever been refused her tribute. In sorrow, in illness and distress, as likewise in joy and congratulation, her word of cheer has found its way into the homes of hundreds. She has a touching fondness for the aged, and some of her best work has been written in eulogy and admiration for them. Her files contain letters of appreciation from senators, legislators, governors of states, ministers, from Mrs. Warren G. Harding, Mrs. Calvin Coolidge, Carrie Jacobs Bond, and numerous editors and commentators." Any knowledge of Bertha A. Kleinman's poems will reveal the fact that she is a versatile writer. Two of her poems that we print here were undoubtedly inspired by her own children. A poem that she calls one of her favorites is entitled "The Kingdom" and is a tribute to her own boys and girls. Another, entitled "Your Boy," was very likely written to her own husband, but is applicable, of course, to all fathers. We shall here include "The Kingdom" and follow with "Your Boy."
THE KINGDOM
If I would fathom the miracle Of God's magnanimity, I need but serve at the oracle Where my little child trusts in me;
If I would reason his Providence, With logic pro and con, I need but treasure the confidence, My children build upon.
448 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
If I would travel the Holy-land, I need not travel far, For the Kingdom borders near at hand, Where the feet of the children are;
If I would merge my trust supreme, In the might of His diagram, I need but soar on my children's dream, And be what they think I am.
Your Boy
There isn't a boy in the world—not one— But longs to be big like you, Who thrills at the sound when you call him "Son" And copies the things you do,
Whose shoulders, braced to the world's demand, Are squared and broad and strong; As yours are squared when you take his hand And lead that boy along.
There isn't a boy on the wide-flung map But longs for your manly pace, Who chafes at the years and the long-grown gap Till he stands with you face to face,
A kingly giant in miniature, Evolving might on might— A god to be, just as true and sure As you lead that boy aright!
Mrs. Kleinman has written many tributes to friends, a splendid example of this style of writing and one that will, we are sure, tend to give comfort to women in general, is a tribute to Ellen E. Tiffany, which follows:
A TRIBUTE TO OUR BELOVED SISTER, ELLEN E. TIFFANY
There's so much we loved about her—constancy and zeal throughout her, Oh, so much that made us glad to call her friend! Yet we knew it too about her that a day could dawn without her, And how little it would count to tell it then.
There were days when she was worried, when we passed by all too hurried, Knowing well the grind and stress of every day; Days when she was tired, tested, and her right to joy molested, Yet we passed in careless greeting on our way.
GUIDE LESSONS FOR OCTOBER 449
Well and fit—she never wavered to request or sue for favor, That perhaps would be so easy to bestow, When we knew no other neighbor has a conscience that was braver, Yet we chanced some other day to let her know.
In the needs of every hour, with her faith and love and power, She has carved her monumentals deeply, daily, on and on; We have learned to know her tether by her splendid, staunch endeavor, How slow we were to pass her praise along.
Oh, why is it hard to tell it, when we have such words to spell it— Things she richly earned and needed us to say? Why should scenes like this approach us, wring our heartstrings and reproach us, For the flow'rs we failed to strew along her way!
Lowly toil—she knew its meaning, days of hers were filled and teeming, Yet with smiles she met each handicap and care, Yes, she smiled when days were dreary—others gloomy—she was cheery, And we're going to miss her good smile everywhere.
In the days that dawn without her, you who loved and clung about her, May her sunshine linger ever at your side; And though God has seemed to smite you, He will heal and bless and guide you, In her footsteps where her star is sanctified!
Mrs. Kleinman appreciated Art. Her poem, "In Things of Art," will, we feel, substantiate this statement.
IN THINGS OF ART
I builded an epic, line on line, Of stately diction and chaste design, Each canto girt with metric song, But all in all my theme was wrong— My ode from art was fugitive— I left Love out and it will not live.
I fashioned a tale of lustrous deed, And sent it forth for the world to read, With gibe and satire unafraid, With quirp and quirk to lend it aid— I placed my treatise on revue, But Love—not there—my book died, too.
450 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
I thrilled a song on an ether length, And sent it forth in its pristine strength, Attuned to rote of staff and score, A brilliant cleft of sounds—no more— I left Love out and my song rebounds, An argosy of empty sounds.
And so I fail in things of art, Who spurn the dictum of the heart, My soul with Love must teem and burn, My soul for yours must writhe and yearn, For the force of maul and the fire of pen Is Love, much Love for my fellow men!
We are told that Mrs. Kleinman has always been deeply interested in civic life. In her poem, "The Beautiful City," she certainly expresses a wholesome attitude toward the community where she lives. In every city there are critics who would make one feel that everything is wrong in that particular city in which they live. Mrs. Kleinman's attitude is wholesome, fresh and full of faith.
THE BEAUTIFUL CITY
What matter the lure and the calling Of places I never shall see— Wherever the sunlight is falling The Beautiful City may be.
What matter the strands that are sainted, With laurel and temple and shrine, Wherever my vision is painted Is the Beautiful City of mine.
What matter the song and the story, What matter the star in the East, The rays on my home-land are glory, And make it the City of Peace.
What matter the shores that are holy While Truth is resplendent and free, My own—be it ever so lowly, Is THE BEAUTIFUL CITY TO ME.
She loves trees, and "My Trees" is an evidence of this fact.
MY TREES
Trees seem like people, fine and tall, And shedding down their good— I never think of trees at all Like common logs of wood;
GUIDE LESSONS FOR OCTOBER 451
For trees have limbs and climb and grow, And trees can PINE and gasp, And trees get scared when tempests blow And shake like QUAKING Asp.
Some trees are grand—like mighty Oaks And grown themselves for use, And some are POPULAR, same as folks, And some are trim and SPRUCE.
Trees seem like mothers when they hide The birds and nests so high, And tuck the soft leaves all outside And rock them when they cry.
Trees build my home so snug and fine, And furnish it complete— They keep me cool in summer time, In winter give me heat.
The lovely fruit, the maple sap, The nuts that fall for me— There's scarce a thing that's worth a rap That wasn't born a tree.
Lost in the woods, so damp and raw, And wandering in the storm, I'd hunt an ELDER like my pa And FIRS to keep me warm.
And so I never think at all That trees are logs of wood, But just like people fine and tall And shedding down their good.
In the sketch furnished by her mother, she tells us that she is very fond of aged people and has written many poems devoted to them. "The Faith of My Fathers" is a very good example of this interest.
THE FAITH OF MY FATHERS
I sit at the feet of the old, old folk, The bent and the halt and the grey, And I string the pearls from the good lips spoke, For a learned folk are they.
I fondle the hands of the old, old folk, And a courage new is born, For theirs is the strength of the tempered oak, In the fingers gnarled and worn.
452 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
I welcome the smile of the old, old folk, The wrinkled and comely cheer, And proud am I when I invoke The praise of an old compeer.
I look in the eyes of the old, old folk, In the windows dulled and dim, Where vision lightens with master-stroke The sight that is turned to Him.
I follow the wake of the old, old folk, And reap the goodly seed, Over fruited trail that their feet have broke, Where the steps of the fathers lead.
I stand for the faith of the old, old folk, The light of the world to be, I stand for the standards their lives invoke, For their faith is the faith for me!
There is a spirit of reverence and devotion to God in all that she writes. Her poem entitled "Joy" tends to impart joy and no one, we feel, can read it in the spirit in which it is written, without having his or her joy increased.
JOY
The reason for all that lives and dies, For all that moves and feels and breathes, The meaning of earth and of Paradise— Is Joy, the Joy that Truth bequeathes!
The depths, the heights of a soul subdued, The end, the all, the blessedness, The fullness of each Beatitude, Is lo! The promise of happiness.
The rite and rote of philosophy, The ultimo of text and song, Religion's troth to man must be A thing of joy or its theme is wrong.
An angel fell, nay, a God came down To turn the key of mortality, That faith should bide and joy encrown To the furthermost posterity.
And the stars that swung to their glad employ When the earth was new and life was youth, The "Stars of the Dawn" that sang for Joy, Are singing yet at the feet of Truth.
GUIDE LESSONS FOR OCTOBER 453
The themes which Mrs. Kleinman makes use of have their roots in the every-day lives of men, women and children, and for that very reason they will make a broad appeal. It is of the people with whom she mingles daily and the people who pass her door that she writes, and from this class she is bound to receive heartfelt thanks and blessings. There are few of our writers who have contributed so consistently and constantly to all of the Church publications for so many years as Bertha Anderson Kleinman. Her mother assures us that it is from the Church publications she has received her best encouragement and for them her best efforts are always reserved. "Her first book was copyrighted and published when she was twenty years of age and represented about one hundred of her maiden-day poems. She has on hand at the present time material for several books and contemplates their production in serial volumes under the titles of 'Friends Like You,' 'Babes Like You,' 'Mothers Like You,' 'Boys Like You,' 'Girls Like You.'" "Asked to name her own favorite poems, Bertha always remarks, 'If it fits the needs of someone, it is my favorite.'"
GRACE INGLES FROST
The sketch of Miss Grace Ingles Frost which we are presenting to our readers was written by her friend Maude Ellen Baggerley, also a poet whose own singing was hushed in death sometime ago. We feel sure that our readers will appreciate this sketch from one intimate with Miss Frost. Grace Ingles Frost, daughter of John Franklin and Elizabeth Grace Mackintosh Frost, was born in Salt Lake City, Utah, September 24, 1874. Owing to the fact that she very early gave evidence of being an extremely sensitive, nervous child, she was not permitted to enter school until her tenth year. Previous to that time, she received instruction at home; chiefly in the use of the needle. From her mother and grandmother, who were both skillful needle-women, she seems to have inherited an adaptability for such work. At all events, even in her extreme youth, she proved to be a very apt pupil. By her Scotch grandmother, she had been taught very rigidly by the time she reached her seventh year, that "anything worth doing, is worth doing well." A stitch that was not considered perfect, or very nearly so, was never allowed to remain in the child's work. While she sewed her fine seams, she was taught to repeat,
454 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
"Whatever you do, Do with your might, For things done by half, Are never done right."
The result of this early discipline is that Grace Ingles Frost has become an expert with the needle. Even her plain sewing is poetry. She has been awarded cash prizes and diplomas for every piece of work that she has exhibited in Salt Lake City and elsewhere. Ever generous with her gifts, she has taught many women to make exquisite laces and embroidery, besides those attending her regular classes; and she has tutored (gratis) numerous students who have been backward in English; thus enabling them to receive coveted degrees. Grace Ingles Frost's formal education was received in Salt Lake City, from Miss Lyde Wells (who conducted a private school); the Collegiate Institute, and our L. D. S. Institutions of learning. She has also taken special work in English at various times, in later years: and has become deeply versed in Theology, which amounts to almost a passion with her. After leaving school Miss Frost became interested in millinery work. For a number of years, she designed and made hats for persons of fastidious fancy in such matters of apparel. Later, she took a course in nursing, passed a perfect examination, and during the years she has practiced has done splendid work. Her grandmother's precepts are too deeply ingrained in her being to permit her to neglect even those things which might seem to another to be trifling details. She believes that seeming trifles are stepping-stones to perfection. In 1908, she was offered the position of Instructor of English Composition and Domestic Arts in a Church High School in Southern Utah. She was forced to refuse this offer, however, because of not being in robust health, and also because its acceptance would necessitate her resignation from other Church duties, in which she was deeply interested. Grace Ingles Frost has been associated with almost every phase of woman's work, in the Church. She became a teacher in Sunday School at an early age and served in that capacity for many years. She has served as instructor in Advanced Religion Class work, as chorister and instructor in the Primary Association, as president of the Y. L. M. I. A. in Waterloo Ward, Granite Stake, and as aide on the Granite Stake Board of the Y. L. M. I. A. In the latter position, she acted as instructor of Theology at the Stake House. Illness or weather or both combined never prevented her from being at her post, nor from being perfectly prepared.
GUIDE LESSONS FOR OCTOBER 455
Order and perfection, or at least something very nearly approaching the latter, characterize her work. She always gives her best and gives lavishly. At one time, Miss Frost possessed a beautiful singing voice. She was a member of the Salt Lake Tabernacle and ward choirs, and was also heard in concert work. A severe illness deprived her of the gift of song, but music still lives on in her soul, and she strives to express it, if only in words. Many years, that should have been the best in her life, have been spent as an invalid. Few people have endured the excruciating agony that has been her portion, and few people have won the steadfast friends, who have been ever ready to serve her in her terrible periods of illness. Being deeply religious, the storms of life have apparently never caused her to envy the more fortunate ones about her, however cruelly those storms may have bruised her. In 1910, Miss Frost received a letter from Richard Badger of the Gorham Press, Boston, Mass., stating that he had read a number of her poems in the Young Woman's Journal and that he would like to publish a volume of her verse. To this proposition, Miss Frost replied in the negative. She thanked Mr. Badger for his interest, but assured him that she was not then ready to have a book published. She felt that her work was not sufficiently important to warrant its publication in book form at that time. Miss Frost was quite young when she first began to write prose, but she never submitted any of her work for publication until she attained to her twenty-eighth year. It was due to the suggestion of her cousin, Mahonri Young, the now internationally known sculptor and painter, that she began to express herself in verse. One day, while Mr. Young was visiting at Miss Frost's home, a copy of an Oregon publication, to which she was contributing a series of articles on Utah's natural scenic beauty, was received by her. The paper contained a sketch from her pen entitled, "Brighton by Moonlight." After reading the description, Mr. Young asked Miss Frost why she had never written verse. He said, "Grace, almost everything that you write is poetical prose. All this lacks to make it poetry, is meter. Try verse writing next time." Several days later, four manuscripts were handed to me to read. The suggestion given by Miss Frost's cousin fanned into flame the embers of a desire that had been hers since childhood. She told me later how she prayed that she might be able to write verse and that her prayer had been answered. All she needed was the stimulus that she had received that day.
456 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
I persuaded Miss Frost to submit her verses for publication and all were accepted. Since that time, she has, now and then, written a prose article or a short story, but verse is her chosen medium for expression, and through that medium her best work has been done. In all, Grace Ingles Frost is the author of several hundred poems, numerous prose articles, and a number of short stories. Her work has been published chiefly in Utah, but also in Oregon and in Oklahoma. She has been urged, frequently, to send her verses to more distant fields. Her reply has been—"I prefer to be known by my own people and to give them my best work." It is often asserted that women who incline to literary work are not domesticated. This cannot be truthfully said of Miss Frost. She is an immaculate housekeeper and an excellent cook. Among other things, she has shown considerable ability as an amateur painter of exquisite water colors; and she has designed, printed and bound two books by hand. She possesses a wonderful color-sense, which is shown in many of her verses. Her great love for children has inspired much of her work. Her nature poems testify to her fondness for nature and all that is beautiful. Grace Ingles Frost's chief characteristics are loyalty, uncompromising, outspoken candor, (an excellent thing for making enemies); a Christ-like sympathy for the oppressed and weak of the earth, and an overwhelming desire to do with her might everything that her hands find to do. Many a young girl's feet would have strayed had Grace Ingles Frost not set them in the path of right, even though she has, at times, received cold scorn from some self-righteous Levite. Her motto has ever been, "Do right and fear no man." Miss Frost has been a contributor to practically all of the Church magazines, her very early poems appearing in the Young Woman's Journal and in the Juvenile Instructor. Readers of the Tribune and undoubtedly of the Deseret News have come in contact with her writings. She tells us that her ability to write verse has been the means of casting much sunshine 'over an otherwise sorrowful life.' One of these gladdening experiences happened during the present year. The Adams Ward Relief Society, Los Angeles Stake, has asked that a chair with a metal plate bearing Miss Frost's name be placed in its new auditorium. She writes "you may be sure that their appreciation (meaning her sisters who have shown her this honor) of my literary efforts has made me desire more earnestly to produce work which might merit such a kindly tribute GUIDE LESSONS FOR OCTOBER 457 The wonderful letters of appreciation received from this society have caused me to wonder how my verses could possibly inspire such words." During the past year Miss Frost has been invited to join the International League of Writers. She adds, "I did not accept the invitation because writing is my pleasure and not my profession." Miss Frost has a very deep-seated love for nature and writes some of her most beautiful lines when contemplating and reveling in the beauties of nature. As an example of this we include: APPLE BLOSSOMS Dainty, modestly blushing things, Fragile as the gossamer wings Of the small creatures clothed i in cloth of gold; That flit from flow'r to flow'r and dip Down to the heart of you to sip The nectar hidden there for ages old. Dainty, modestly blushing things, From out your midst the wild bird flings A flood of. Lilting notes upon the wind, To bind them in a sheaf of song That makes me glad the whole day long, Down 'neath the bowers of bloom you've intertwined. Dainty, modestly blushing things, The breeze with gentle mischief brings You pattering down, a fragrant shower, That lulls my senses, aye, and soothes My restive spirit 'til it woos Me into oneness with the Divine Power. Dainty, modestly blushing things, Within my soul a pean rings, For busy bees ahum and boughs abloom, And for the blithesome notes that float From the treasure of the feathered throat, Which leave in mind, for meagre thoughts, no room. A poem she calls "Living" begpeaks the same sincere love of nature. LIVING Hoary headed peaks ablaze with glory, And winter's keen caress upon each cheek; The rhythmic, crispy sound of crunching snowflakes That white and glistening lie beneath our feet, 458 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE The pearly sails of graceful, speeding cloudships That hold a glad regatta in the sky, The green-black firs aglint with frosty fringes That gleam like diamond-drops and you and I Filled with a bouyant, new found joy of living, And after eventide, an azure night Bright with the starry lamps that shine in heaven, And the deep, white silence from a moonlit sky, Oh! This is living, living, living! And you, thank God, are. You and I am I. One of Grace Ingles Front's outstanding characteristics is her love of children. In her poem "Answered" she discovers much of the wonder and glory of God's handiwork in the face of a little child. ANSWERED I longed to penetrate the depths of space, To see beyond the blue of sapphire skies, To look upon the glory of God's face, To view and learn of mighty mysteries. Nor cup of disappointment did I quaff; One day my yearning arms held close a babe, And in its eyes, from its sweet, gurgling laugh, I saw and learned those things my soul had craved. Her love for children is again revealed in the poem, WHEN THE WIND SANG ITS BABE TO SLEEP (First published in "The Young Woman's Journal") The wind sang its babes to sleep last night, With a sweet, low croon, with a sweet, low croon, Rocking them high in a tree near by, Tucked into beds of apple bloom. The stars came blinking out from the blue, And the moon peeped from over the hill, And for each wee hand in its trundle bed, There was left on the window sill, A bundle held by a sheath of light, That the tiny moonbeams had spun From their own gleams into wondrous dreams, For a gift to each little one. While the moon sang its babes to sleep last night. With a sweet, low croon, with a sweet, low croon. Rocking them high in a tree near by, Tucked into beds of apple bloom. GUIDE LESSONS FOR OCTOBER 459 DEARIE HEART (A Lullaby) (Published in the "Juvenile Instructor') Do you hear, Dearie Heart, tween the dusk and the dark, The wind croon a lullaby song, And the leaves on the trees, as they nod to the breeze, Waft the wonderful music along? Can you see from the blue, starshine beckon to you, And moonbeams to guide your wee feet, From the playtime and noise of your romping and toys, To the quiet of Milky Way Street? Ah! Then harken, oh, hark 'tween the dusk and the dark, 'Till the lullaby song seals your eyes, And soon you will be far, far out on the sea That leads you where Dreamy Land lies. It is not an uncommon thing for poets to feel as Tennyson felt, that words "half reveal and half conceal the thoughts within." The poem "Unuttered Songs" are in line with this idea. UNUTTERED SONGS Those songs the vice cannot find notes to utter, Do they not fall back into heart of man, Like unshed tears that are too great to pass The conduit of the outward being through? Shall they not echo and reecho in the soul, Until this sphere of limitation's past? And then in music they have made their own, Break forth in a magnificent at last? Methinks the songs that yet remain unuttered, Awaiting for fortuity to voice, Are those to which but higher mind can hearken, So fraught are they with words and music choice. No one can read a sketch of Grace Ingles Frost's life and not be impressed by her versality. The art instinct is so much a part of her whole being that it has found expression in needlework, painting, music, and in poetry. She is indeed one of very exceptional gifts. All of her poems have in them a deeply religious strain. "My Mother's Ring," published in the May issue of the Magazine, carries with it a deep-seated faith in the immortality of the soul. We quote the last stanza: 460 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE "Oh! Since she has awakened Within the Better Land, Can it be she has longed to feel This circlet on her hand? Or does she wear another, The counterpart of this, Yet of a rarer beauty, There is in her home of bliss? This much, I know+-my Mother's ring (Worn on my hand today). Seems to keep her near me, Though she has passed away; And well I know 'twill keep my feet From treading devious ways; For Mother's ring is shining With a gleam from her life's rays. Questions and Problems -Bertha A. Kleinman. 1. Name a group of magazines outside of Church periodicals in which Mrs. Kleinman's poems have been published. 2. Prove from her poems that she is interested in the neighbors about her. 3. Quote some lines from one of her poems to show that old people appeal to her. 4. Prove from her writings that she is interested in civic projects. Grace Ingles Frost. "1. Select some lines that you regard as particularly beautiful, carrying a message of the poet's love for nature. 2. Quote some lines that indicate that she is particularly 3. Prove from the material presented in the biographical sketch that Miss Frost is a woman of very versatile talents. 4. Give evidence from her poetry that she has faith in and love for God. Devoted to children.: GUIDE LESSONS FOR OCTOBER 461 LESSSON IV Social Service (Fourth Week in October) THE CHILD-STUDY COURSE How THE CHILD LEARNS TO Express HIMSELF IN LANGUAGE, Music, Etc. (Based on Chapter VII: The Child: His Nature and His Needs.) The reader will recall that in the six preceding lessons we have been considering the various phases of child nature and attempting to separate the "wheat from the chaff" in regard to child psychology. It will be recalled, specifically, that we discussed the more important inborn tendencies in childhood and their need for proper guidance by the parent. Then we consider the child's active nature and the need for wise direction of these energies rather than their suppression. Later we consider the child's moral and social development, noting the way in which the growing child learns to live successfully in a world of other persons. In the present chapter—the last in Part Il—we are to consider a somewhat different aspect of child nature. We are to think about the ways in which the normal child learns to express his ideas, his attitudes, and his emotions. Our expert this time is another national authority on the subject, Dr. E. A. Kirkpatrick, psychologist at the Massachusetts State Normal School, Fitchburg. A. The Laws of Learning in General. (Pages 132-139) Before taking up language and some of the other arts of expression, the author treats the reader to a rather lengthy discussion of the laws of learning in general (This section, pp. 132-139, by the way, can be omitted without much loss by those who do not care for such a bit of theoretical psychology. ) Memory, learning and motor skill, as the author points out by his numerous examples, are possible only because stimuli and responses, ideas and processes, become definitely connected. I. €., associated with one another in the brain. Habits, good or bad, helpful, harmless or harmful, are developed by the mere process of strengthening the associations (or bonds) between these elements; i. E., by repetition under favorable conditions. It would seem appropriate here to call attention to another law of learning too often neglected in this age of speed; viz., in all forms of motor skill, accuracy should be striven for before speed. Specifically, in-the child's learning to speak, to write, to cipher, to draw, to play the piano, etc., certain standards of 462 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE accuracy should be insisted upon by the parents before speed is stressed. Such an emphasis by parents and teachers would do much to improve the low quality of handwriting, spelling, arithmetic, etc., common among American children. Questions 1, From your own experience, illustrate the laws of association referred to on page 132. 2. Why is it "very important that children should be given some means of seeing their own improvement in whatever they are learning?" How might a parent do this in the case of a child learning to speak, to play the piano, etc.? B. Learning Language. (Pages 140-148) Language behavior is extremely complicated. Learning a language constitutes the child's first great task. It challenges and measures not only his mental powers but the guidance skill of his parents and teachers. The most important phases of language behavior and the order in which they develop in the child-are: talking, reading, and writing. Because of the fact that speech disorders are so common (surveys show that 8 or 9 out of every 1,000 school children stutter, for example), it has been thought well to introduce a few pertinent quotations from two reliable authorities on the subject —Blanton and Blanton, Child Guidance (Century Co., 1927), pp. 105-110* "Speech disorders may be classified from the descriptive standpoint as follows: (1) delayed speech, (2) oral inactivities, (3) letter-sound substitution, and (4) stuttering, which includes stammering. "Delayed speech. The normal child begins to use voluntary speech constantly when he is about fifteen months old. If it is delayed a year beyond this time, he should be examined by a physician who is familiar with nervous diseases. The five common causes for delayed speech are: (a) lack of mental development, (b) lack of necessity for speech (e. G., where the child has too much 'done for him), (c) continued illness with extreme malnutrition during infancy, (d) unhealthy emotional attitudes and (e) deafness. "Oral Inactivities. Oral inactivities consist of a slurring or indistinctness of speech, which may be due to some organic disease of the speech organs, to some emotional conflict, or to some difficulty in the learning process. *For a more complete discussion of this subject see Blanton and Blanton, Speech Training for Children (Century Co.). GUIDE LESSONS FOR OCTOBER 463 "Letter-sound substitution and omission. This is usually called lalling or lisping, and is a substitution of one sound for another, such as th for s, w for r, tsh for tr, and ¢ for k. * * The majority (of such cases) are caused by emotional conflicts. Many of them are due to a retention of infantile phonetic habits, and many of them are due to a retention of infantile emotional habits. The treatment consists of two parts: (a) emotional re-education, and (b) phonetic re-education. Yr ae "Stuttering, which includes stammering. Stuttering, under which we include stammering, may be described as a break in the rhythm of speech due to a blocking or inhibiting of the muscle co-ordinations. It must not be thought of as a disease, but: as a symptom of any of a number of underlying conditions. "We do not find any explanation of the cause of stuttering through examination of the bodily organs. Of course, such conditions as malnutrition, diseased tonsils, carious teeth, and nasal obstructions, may cause an increase in the natural irritability of the nervous system, but these conditions are not the cause of stuttering. A "A search of the 'emotional life of stuttering children always reveals some of these defects: timidity, strong feelings of inferiority, an over-dependence on the parents, and feeling of inadequacy. In some cases we notice a marked rigidity towards life, an unwillingness to change food and sleep habits, an over suggestibility, a chronic fear of meeting certain groups of people or situations, or a marked sensitiveness. Ee a ee "The treatment of stuttering fails under three headings: (a) physical hygiene, ((b) mental hygiene, by which we mean emotional re-education, and (c) relaxation and training in muscle co-ordination. "(a) The laws of physical hygiene are well known to parents, so we shall not dwell on this phase of the subject. "(b) In mental hygiene the fundamental thing is the changing of the general. Emotional reactions and the correcting of faulty attitudes which give rise to tension. The child must be trained to work successfully rather. Than to day-dream, and to get along well with other children. Some outlet must be found for his fundamental social and biological tendencies and the necessity for winning some success. "(c) Parents should absolutely ignore the child's speech defect as such. They should not ask him to repeat sentences, and should not seem distressed or irritated when he becomes blocked or inhibited. Even slight changes of expression on the face are noticed by the stuttering child. - "The use of phonetics or of vocal exercises, such as in- 464 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE flection, change of pitch, breathing, etc., is to be avoided. There is no difficulty in the child's speech mechanism. The difficulty is primarily psychological. Talking is to be encouraged, as are all. Situations of a social nature, because through them the child is really being trained to meet life." Since writing is an important form of expression, it seems important to call attention to certain dangers incident to its mastery: by the child. About ninety-five per cent of all human beings are born with a greater capacity for skill with the right hand than with the left. Of the remaining five percent, some are neutral (or ambidextrous), some are slightly left-handed, while others are extremely left-handed. Since handwriting is difficult for lefthanded children, many parents and teachers insist (sometimes unwisely) upon the left-handed child using his right hand. For example, left-handed children who at the outset start with their left hands and are later made to change to their right hands not infrequently develop stuttering, the reason being that since writing is a form of speech, and since the respective areas of control in the brain become definitely associated, any change of handedness for writing purposes naturally upsets this association with the results indicated. In every case of left-handedness, parents should decide at the outset, with the help of ithe teacher, which hand the child shall use for writing. If the child is neutral or only slightly left-handed it is generally safe to insist on the right hand. If the child is extremely left-handed, he should be allowed to use his left hand for writing. In no case should a child be made to change hands for writing, once the habit gets under way.* Questions 1. Observe the language behavior of your own children or those accessible to your observation. What laws of learning and language expression can you see illustrated? Do you know children or adults in your community with speech defects similar to those discussed above? Do such children get the special care and attention they need in school? If not, ask your Superintendent or Board or Education why it cannot be supplied.: 3. What are the new methods of teaching reading? How do they differ from the old? (If you do not know, consult any. Competent primary-grade teacher in your community.) 4, What is the policy in your local schools regarding lefthanded children and their hand-writing? If you are concerned and in doubt about it, talk to the principal or the teacher. — *For further discussion of this subject see Beely, A. L., Aw Experimental Study of Left-handedness, University of Chicago Press, 1918. GOT A DATE TONIGHT? It's great—to have a date, with the right girl or the right man. If, some day, you plan to marry—the date is all the finer. But what about the bread and butter? What about the money? That's YOUR problem. Mr. Man. It won't solve itself. The money won't come, if you can't earn it. When you apply for a job, it helps a lot to be able to say: "Here's what I can do." Let us help you NOW —-so you can say that when the time comes. Train at the L. D. S. Business College and Be Prepared Complete courses in BOOKKEEPING—COMPTOMETER— SHORTHAND—TYPEWRITING—SPEEDWRITING. L. D. S. Business College "UTAH'S GREATEST BUSINESS SCHOOL" —-"PICKLING SEASON" It will soon be time for putting up pickles. It is every woman's ambition to put up better pickles than her neighbor, and almost every woman, some time in her life, has been induced to take 'something just as good' in the way of pickling spices and vinegar. As a result, she has lost her pickles. If you will use SCOWCROFT'S Blue PINE Group Mustard whole pickling spices and vinegar in making your mustard pickles, and BLUE PINE WHOLE Spices in - your pickling with Blue Pine Vinegar, we will guarantee that you will not lose your pickles. John Scowcroft & Sons Co. When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine A NEW YEAR-- Another Opportunity We all welcome additional chances of doing what we have wanted to do. There is another opportunity for the youth of the State of Utah to either begin or to continue their higher education at THE UNIVERSITY OF UTAH The following schedule of registration is announced for the Autumn Quarter: Thursday, September 27—Registration Day for Freshmen. Friday and Saturday, September 28 and 29—Special instruction for Freshmen. Monday, October 1—Registration for all other students. Tuesday, October 2—Instruction begins. PLAN NOW TO ATTEND The State's highest institution of learning offers the youth of the State splendid opportunities to prepare themselves for a complete life. An extremely rich selection of courses is available to the young men and young women either for general cultural development or for specific training in the various fields. The University has the most complete curriculum in the Rocky Mountain territory. High standard work for serious minded students has placed the University in an enviable position in the educational work of the west. Write for catalogue University of Utah SALT LAKE CITY —THE LEADERS IN OUR LINE Every O. P. Skaggs Store of each town is the undisputed leader in maintaining the highest degree of sanitation, in stocking the largest assortment of quality foods, in ability to handle the largest, busy day crowds pleasingly, and in maintaining the lowest possible prices. If you happen to be a buyer who for any reason has not yet learned OP SKAGGS of the advantages of an O. P. Skaggs on system  our findings will mean much to S and your purse. —— When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine SPECIAL SUMMERTIME COMBINATION OFFER Ever hot Cooker It roasts—  bakes——_boils— stews— 1 Gallon Thermal An ideal method of carrying hot or cold drinks Both for $14.95 Pay only 95 c Down $2 a Month THIS OFFER IS FOR A LIMITED TIME ONLY COME IN NOW AND LET US TELL YOU ABOUT IT UTAH POWER & LIGHT CO. Efficient Public Service ——— Is the time to check up on your printed forms. Don't wait until the vacation season is over. Take this tip and avoid the rush: CALL WASATCH 550 Our "Service" man will take care of your needs in LEDGER SHEETS INVOICES STATEMENTS, ETC. OR BLANK BOOKS A COMPLETE PRINTING and BINDING SERVICE The Deseret News Press — When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine 29 Richards Street Salt Lake City MRS OLGA WHEATLY HONEYVILLE U TAH INVESTIGATE BEFORE INVESTING Self-Defrosting BEFORE INVESTING, INVESTIGATE ElectrICE can guarantee greater efficiency with far less power consumption. There are only two moving parts. BlectrICE was TESTED for wear and loss in efficiency, after operating continuously for over 26,000 hours, and came through 100%. This is equal to 12 years' actual service in your home. Can any other Refrigerator show such a record? ElectriCE is the product of the greatest manufacturing combination in the world; Belding-Hall and American Radiator Companies. Let us PROVE to you that there are certain features, which are absolutely necessary in maintaining perfect refrigeration, and also that these great advantages are only found in the— SELF DEFROSTING ELECTRICE GUARANTEED TO BE THE MOST EFFICIHNT--THE MOST ECONOMICAL ELECTRICE SHOP Phone Wasatch 7083 REFRIGERATION SALES CORPORATION —Distributors— Salt Lake City, Utah Ruy Your ELECTRICE From Your Nearest Denler. A 185 East Second South When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine f CONSERVATIVE INVESTMENTS BOUGHT SOLD QUOTED Send for our complete list EDWARD L. BURTON & COMPANY Established 1899 "PUT AWAY FOR THE RAINY DAY" Southern Pacific Lines OFFER Special Road Trip Summer Fares TO CALIFORNIA POINTS To LOS ANGELES AND RETURN BOTH WAYS $40.00 to los angeles via san Francisco returning direct or route reversed $47.50 Proportionately low fares from all other points in UTAH, IDAHO and MONTANA. STOPOVERS ALLOWED AT ALL POINTS. TICKETS ON SALE DAILY—MAY 15th TO SEPT. 30th FINAL RETURN LIMIT OCTOBER 31st For further information CALL, WRITE or PHONE PRESS BANCROFT, GENERAL AGENT PHONES WAS. 3008—3078 USE HUSLER'S FLOUR Se H Made in On,— SALT LAKE CITY When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine 160 So. Main 4 SO. MAIN ST. Wasatch 866 SALT LAKE CITY — An Overall with a Classy Appearance -MOUNTAINEER EXPRESS STRIPE OVERALLS GUARANTEED FOR QUALITY, FIT, AND SERVICE A clean, neat appearing garment for the Store Clerk, the Flour Mill Operator, the Dairyman, the Garage Man, the Teamster. None Too Large None Too Small 7 CONFERENCE VISITORS! WHEN IN SALT LAKE FOR CONFERENCE IN OCTOBER MAKE IT A POINT TO VISIT OUR STORE! GULBRANSEN PIANOS $295 up VICTOR and BRUNSWICK PHONOGRAPHS and Radio Combinations R. C. A. RADIO SETS All Latest Sheet Music Rest at our store and hear all the latest records EASY TERMS Home of Mason and Hamlin, Chickering and Knabe Pianos Glen Bros.-Roberts Piano Co. "Salt Lake City When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine FALL and WINTER GARMENTS OF APPROVED L. D. S. STYLES Selected from our extensive line of L. D. S. Garments we suggest the following numbers of fall and winter wear: excellent ladies' number....$1.25 particular people 3 \ rayon Our best med. Winter No... 5.75 No. 83—Ribbed med. Wgt. Cotton, bleached. Our all season number No. 4—Ribbed heavy wet., unbleached cot. Our double back number No. 5—Part wool, ribbed unbleached. Our best selling wool number 1.75 No. 8—Ribbed heavy wet. Unbleached cot. And wool. Our 50% wool number No. 9—Ribbed med. Weight, Wool and cotton. Our light weight winter number No. 10—100% pure worsted wool, med. Wget. The ideal garment for those who want all wool In ordering, be sure to specify whether old or new style garments, three quarter or ankle length legs, short or long sleeves are wanted. Also give bust measure, height and weight to insure perfect fit. ORDER BY MAIL OR CALL AT STORE THE ORIGINAL UTAH WOOLEN MILLS 3 Block South of Temple Gate —  Utah Beet Sugar IN YOUR CANNING ON YOUR TABLE 100% PURE—100% FINE Boost and Buy Local Products When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine No. 1—Ribbed lgt. Wgt. Cotton with rayon silk stripe. An No, 2—Ribbed lgt. Wgt. Cotton our standard summer wet. 1.25 Briant Stringham, Manager No. 6—High grade tricosham silk. No, 7—Pure worsted woo with silkine merc. Cotton. 28 Richards Street L. D. S. GARMENTS Good grade, and well made. When ordering, state Size, New or Old Style, and if for man or lady. Postage prepaid. Sample on request. 142 Flat Weave, Lt. Weight...$ 95 264 Rayon Silk $3.50 208 Carded Cotton, Med. Lt....... 1.45 217 Fine Lisle, Rayon Stripe.... 2265 32 Combed Cotton, Light Wt.. 1.50 748 Unbleached Cot., Hvy. Wt... 2.00 222 Cotton, Rayon Stripes........ 1.65 754 Bleached Cot., Hvy. Wt..... 2.26 258 Double Card. Cot., Med. Wt. 'a0 908 Unbleached Cot., Ex. Hvy. 2.75 8 M Lisle, Light Wt......... 108 bleached Cote Med. Wt... 1 1072 Mixed Wool and Cotton...... 4.00 BARTON & CO. Established in Utah 45 Years 142 WES'T SOUTH TEMPLE ST. Salt Lake City, Utah 7). SENO FOR "HANDY BREEDER'S CHART — "Temple and Burial Clothes PERFECT EAR TAG COMPLETE SUITS FOR MEN AND WOMEN Variety of Grades and Prices.  FOR CATTLE-HOGS-SHEEP Orders IT'S DOUBLE HOLE LOCK makes it decidedly superior to all imitations, Open Daily, 9 a. M.—5 Pp. Mm. SAM PLES 5 GENERAL RELIEF IT STAYS PUT Phone Wasatch 3286 SALT LAKE STAMP CO. Salt Lake City 29 Bishop's Building Salt Lake City, Utah Without obligation to buy please send FREE Samples of PERFECE EAR TAGS end Price List, Name Address L. D. S. GARMENTS Direct From Factory You are guaranteed unusual Wear and satisfaction from Cutler Garments. They are made from the best long wearing, two combed yarns. No. 68 Ribbed ex. Light Cotton No, 61 Ribbed Med. Hvy. Knee length............-$.75 bleached Double Back.. 1.70 No. 68 Old style or new style No. 56 Ribbed Hvy. Cotton % or long legs................ No. 85 bleached..................$2.15 No. 74 Ribbed light wt. Cot.....1.10 No. 84 Rib. Mercerized Lisle....1.85 No. 76 Ribbed lt. Wt. Lisle....1.35 No. 64 Ribbed Med. Lt. Cot.....1.35 No. 62 Ribbed Med. Hvy. bleached.....................1.70 No. 37 Ribbed Med. Wt. 50% Wool and Silk Stripe.........4.65
No. 55 Ribbed Hvy. Cot. Unbleached Double Back......2.15 No. 27 Ribbed Med. Wt. 50% Wool.........................3.35 No. 39 Ribbed Hvy. Wt. 50% Wool.........................3.85
WHITE TEMPLE PANTS 8 oz. Heavy Duck................$1.75
WHITE SHIRTS "ONLY" Collar Attached or Without......$1.95
WESTCOTT & MONTITO Ladies' Pure Silk Hose, Latest Fancy Shades................$1.69 Men's Long Wearing Hose........................50c and 70c
In ordering garments please state if for men or women and if old or new styles are wanted. Also give bust, height and weight.
SPECIAL—When you order three pair of garments or hose at one time we allow you a 15% discount on the third pair. Marking 15c. Postage Prepaid.
Const. Bldg. 34 So. Main
GARMENTS LONG WEARING CLOTHES
When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine
Prompt and Careful Attention To Mail—Telephone—Telegraph
It is the original of the most widely used and approved identification mark known.
45 W. Broadway
Ask for one of our folders describing the different services we offer.
LAUNDRY Hyland 190 Distinctive Work Office 319 S. Main St.
We should'a drunk more milk when we wuz kids~
Plant This Fall TULIPS, HYACINTHS, NARCISSUS, PEONIES, SHRUBS, ETC. For beautiful home gardens
COLLECTION OF 50 GIANT DARWIN TULIPS for $1.25
Write for Free Catalog It tells what, when and how to plant
YOUNG SAMSON knows what he's talking about
Seed and Nursery Specialists
CLOVER LEAF DAIRY Salt Lake 159 W. 1st So. Was. 2177
Have You That Contented Mind That Goes Along With a Beneficial Policy?
You need our Insurance We want your Business
Beneficial Life Insurance Co. The Big Home Company Heber J. Grant, Pres. E. T. Ralphs, Mgr.
When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine
Porter-Walton Co.
every time, and the prize is health.
CONTENTS
SEPTEMBER, 1928
Frontispiece........................Orson F. Whitney 467 What is Prayer?....................Orson F. Whitney 467 Rebecca Neibaur Nibley............Amy Brown Lyman 473 Editorial—Members of General Board Take Advantage of Summer Courses.. Infant Mortality Decreasing...... Woman to Represent British Universities Districts........................ 477 Sarah Elizabeth Carmichael Williamson..Ellen L. Jakeman 478 The Russell Sisters...............Annie Wells Cannon 491 Notes from the Field.............Amy Brown Lyman 495 Guide Lessons for November— Theology and Testimony........ Work and Business............ Literature...................
Organ of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints
Room 20 Bishop's Bldg. Salt Lake City, Utah
$1.00 a Year—Single Copy, 10c Foreign, $1.25 a Year—15c Single Copy
Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah
Phone Wasatch 3123
VOL. XV SEPTEMBER, 1928 NO. 9
SAMUEL By Joshua Reynolds.
THE Relief Society Magazine
VOL. XV SEPTEMBER, 1928 No. 9
What is Prayer?
By Orson F. Whitney
"Prayer is the soul's sincere desire, Unuttered or expressed; The motion of a hidden fire That trembles in the breast."
With my question so well answered, I might now close the discussion, were it not that I wish to present some further reflections along this line of thought. So I continue:
What is prayer? It is not mere lip service—a drawing near to the Lord with the mouth, while the heart is far from Him. There are two ways of offering prayer—orally, or with the voice, and secretly, or in thought, without speech. Both methods are used in addressing petitions to Deity. But neither of them is acceptable, nor of any virtue whatever, unless accompanied by "the soul's sincere desire."
John Stevens McGroarty, the genial, philosophical, broadminded editor of "The Synagogue"—a Sunday supplement of the Los Angeles Times—says, in a recent issue of that paper, something about fasting and prayer that is well worth reading. Along with it, he pays a high compliment to the "Mormon" people. Thus:
"Under the rafters of our far-flung Synagogue, as everybody knows, sit all sorts of conditions of men. People of all nations and of all creeds. The rafters of the Synagogue stretch over all the continents, the Seven Seas and all the oceans.
"Wherefore, it is no news to state that among those who sit in the Synagogue are many people who from their religious creed are known as Mormons. All the Mormons who sit in the Synagogue are also members of the Congregation of the Faithful, because they say their prayers every night and every morning. Every Mormon does that.
"And we are very happy to feel that we have many friends
468 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
among the Mormons. We have often made it known that we have a great admiration and even an affection for them. There is so much about them that is admirable, so much that is exemplary.
"Just lately, however, we found out something about them that we had not known before. And it is something worth broadcasting in the Synagogue this blessed Sabbath morning. The thing we found out about the Mormons—and which we had not known before, is that on the first Sunday of each month of the year they fast from food. Good, pious Mormons deny themselves in this way once a month.
"Now, there are many other denominations of the Christian religion that observe fasts as well as feasts. We could name Christians of many varying creeds who deny themselves food on certain days of the year. Which is a good thing for their souls as well as for their bodies. But the Mormons put their fasts to practical uses. What they do when the day of fasting is over is to conscientiously estimate what the food on the fast day, had they eaten it, would have cost. And each Mormon then sends the amount of this estimate to his Church organization. And the Church organization uses the money it thus receives for the support of its poor.
"The result of all this is that the Mormons have no poor houses. Nor does it seem that they have any jails.
"This is what we would call practical religion. It is not religion that is the mere breath of one's nostrils. It is self-denial for the sake of others. It is going hungry that another may be fed. Wanting, that someone else may not be in need."
Then comes this hit at religious bigotry:
"It may be that someone sitting in the Synagogue this blessed Sabbath morning will say that this good report of the Mormon people should not be spoken. Unfortunately, there are many who profess to be Christians, yet who are really not Christians at all. And it is they who will say that it is only their own religion—the creed to which they belong—that should be praised and emulated.
"It was once well said by some wise man, that Christianity should not be condemned, for the reason that it has never been tried.
"And there is a lot in that saying. It really does not seem that the teachings of the Wanderer of Galilee have yet come to full flower.
"The way that we, ourself, feel about it is, that a good deed should be praised and held up for emulation, no matter by whom the deed is done. Even though it be a pagan, a heathen or a heretic who does a good deed, then shall he be praised in the Synagogue. And he shall have a high seat therein."
WHAT IS PRAYER? 469
In another luminous flash from his gifted pen, Mr. McGroarty thus presents his concept of prayer:
"Charles V, who was sometime King of Spain, and at the same time king of a lot of other countries that had been willed to him by his aunts and uncles, once said that Spanish is the language with which to speak with God.
"El idioma para hablar con Dios." He spoke truly enough no doubt. And what he said may still be true, although the scholars tell us that Spanish has changed a good deal, as all other languages have done, since the time of Charles V. It is said that it is a pretty far cry from the castellano of Cervantes, Quevedo and Lope de Vega to the Spanish of Pio Baroja, Pareda and other modern writers.
"Mexico particularly has put a lot of strange stuff in the mother tongue. The Peruvians have gingered it up with the 'quichua' of the Incas. In the Argentine even American slang has its wedge in. And so it goes.
"But, getting back to what the great king said, we may add that God may be spoken with without the use of language altogether.
"It is with our thoughts and not with words that we speak with God. Words are merely the voices of thoughts. And a thought can be a thought and yet be voiceless.
"To speak with God is not a matter of language. It is a thing for the soul to do. And He is always listening."
Mark you, our big-hearted friend, the Rabbi of the "Synagogue," does not say that words should not be used in "speaking with God." That they are "merely the voices of thoughts," is manifestly true. But there are times when thought needs a voice, and so the Lord has commanded his people to "pray vocally and in secret." To speak with God, therefore, is, as we view it, a matter of language, as well as of thought.
Joseph Smith, the first "Mormon" of the nineteenth century, but not of all time—for "Mormonism's" far-flung "Synagogue" stretches its rafters over the prayerful and honest in all ages—when he beheld in vision the Father and the Son, he spoke with them orally at first, and after the power of evil had paralyzed his tongue, went on praying in secret; and it was his secret prayer that shook the heavens, turned the key in the lock, and opened upon the world the glories of a new Gospel dispensation. Satan could and did tie the boy's tongue, depriving him temporarily of the power of speech; but could not fetter his free thought, could not prevent him from sincerely desiring the wisdom of which he stood in need and for which he had sought the Lord in the Sacred Grove that memorable spring morning. Thus the supreme value of secret prayer is strikingly evidenced in Joseph Smith's first and greatest spiritual manifestation.
Let us not, however, underrate oral prayer. When we kneel
470 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
in the family circle, or lower our heads and hearts in public worship, the one who voices the prayer is the mouthpiece of all present. That being the case, it is highly necessary that all should hear him and know what he is praying for, so that there can be an intelligent "Amen" from the congregation. But no public prayer can take the place of the silent petition with which, in the solitude of the bed-chamber or other retired spot, we pour out the desires of our hearts to our all-seeing, all-knowing Heavenly Father. Even upon the street, in the office, or in the school room, we ought to have a prayer in our hearts for protection against accident, for the success of any business venture in which we may be interested, or for the mastery of some difficult problem that is taxing our patience and strength. God hears such prayers, as well as those that are uttered openly—if the one who prays does so with full purpose of heart. "And He is always listening."
Prayer is a means of uplift. Every prayerful thought, word or deed is a step toward heaven. Our Lord and Savior was not thinking of his own honor and glory when he commanded his disciples to pray unceasingly and always in his name. He had in mind their welfare—mentally, morally, spiritually, and in every way. Prayer is an expression of faith, and it is by faith—which impels to obedience—that we obtain all our blessings. Eternal justice, without which God would cease to be God, demands a return for what Providence bestows. We must do something to merit what is done for us. The balance is thus preserved, the equilibrium of right maintained. We cannot get something for nothing. We pay for our blessings, in part, by asking for them. But if we do not ask, and still receive, we owe for them. Then why not pray, thus discharging in advance and as far as possible, the obligation?
In closing let me record an incident of my own experience that powerfully impressed upon me the meaning and purpose of prayer. It happened forty-eight years ago, in far-off Liverpool, where I was then laboring as assistant editor of the Millennial Star, the organ of the European Mission. In an overworked, run-down condition, I was endeavoring to produce an editorial article which would be read, upon completion, to the editor in chief—the Mission President—and if he approved it, given to the printer. But I could make no headway, and wore out the whole day in a vain struggle to write something worth reading. Finally I threw down my pen in disgust and burst into tears of vexation. At that moment the Good Spirit whispered: "Why don't you pray?" I turned almost impatiently in the direction from which the
WHAT IS PRAYER? 471
whisper had seemed to come, and said: "I do pray." I was then praying five times a day—first, a secret morning prayer upon arising; second, a prayer at breakfast time with the rest of the household; third, in secret at noon-day; fourth, again with the family at supper time; and finally at my bedside before retiring. "Pray now," said the Spirit, "and ask for what you want." I saw the point at once. It was a special not a general prayer that was needed. I knelt and sobbed out a few simple words. I did not pray for the return of the Ten Tribes, nor for the building of the New Jerusalem. I said, "Father, in the name of Jesus Christ help me to write this article." That was all, and it was enough. I arose from my knees, seated myself, and began to write. My mind was now as clear as crystal, and my pen fairly flew over the paper. Everything I wanted came as fast as I could set it down, and every thought and word was in proper place. In a remarkably short time the article was completed to my entire satisfaction. I read it to the chief; he approved it without the change of a syllable; and it was published.
This taught me a lesson, or rather, it reminded me of one that I had temporarily forgotten and needed to have emphasized. Prayer is not a matter of mere words—not a string of hackneyed, stereotyped phrases. "Prayer is the soul's sincere desire." And it was of such a prayer and no other, that the Lord said: "Ask, and ye shall receive."
None can pray well but he that lives well. Pray and work. Pray devoutly and hammer stoutly. Pray without ceasing. Prayer knocks 'til the door opens. Prayer of faith shall save the sick. He prayeth well who loveth well. What an asylum has a soul in prayer.
REBECCA NEIBAUR NIBLEY
Rebecca Neibaur Nibley
By Amy Brown Lyman
Another noble pioneer woman has passed to her reward in the person of Mrs. Rebecca Neibaur Nibley, wife of President Charles W. Nibley and for many years a member of the General Board of Relief Society. Mrs. Nibley's earthly life closed in the early dawn of July 2nd at the family residence in Salt Lake City, where she was surrounded by her husband and children, who ministered to her during her last illness. The funeral services were held in the Salt Lake Assembly Hall, where hundreds of relatives and friends gathered to pay tribute to her, and where her remains lay in a lovely bluish-gray metallic casket surrounded by masses of beautiful flowers. Bishop James A. Giles of the 14th Ward was in charge; the speakers were President Heber J. Grant, President Anthony W. Ivins and Bishop Nicholas G. Smith of the 17th Ward. Among the musical numbers rendered was the hymn "Come, Thou Glorious Day of Promise," the words of which were composed by Mrs. Nibley's gifted and brilliant father, Alexander Neibaur. Interment was in the family lot in Logan City cemetery; the grave was dedicated by President Joseph R. Shepherd of the Logan Temple.
In the passing of Rebecca N. Nibley, her husband and children have lost a loving, affectionate, and devoted wife and mother; her friends, a true and valiant friend; the Church, a staunch supporter and faithful member. During her long life it had been no trial for her to make personal sacrifices for her loved ones. It had been no task for her to minister to their daily needs, nurse them in times of illness and help to lighten their burdens. She suffered when they suffered, and rejoiced in their joys. She was an ideal wife and helpmeet, devoted and loyal to her husband and his interests, and their success in life was due in no small measure to her ability, devotion, and industry. She worked shoulder to shoulder with him, and her practical wisdom and vision were a great asset in the partnership. She was energetic and ambitious, frugal and thrifty, ingenuous and resourceful. When left to support herself and two children while her husband performed a mission in England, her resources consisted of a small piece of hay land, a cow, a pig, and some chickens. She took care of her garden, raised chickens, and sold milk, butter, and eggs; and, by good management, succeeded in maintaining her family without assistance. During this time $300 in cash was paid her on a debt. This money she carefully kept intact for a new start for her husband on his return.
474 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
It takes a great soul to be a true friend. There was no wavering in the friendship of this noble woman. She was dependable, loyal, tender and true; and once a friend, a friend always. No new influence in her life and no period of separation from her friends affected her feelings or devotion to them, and she was never happier than when extending hospitality in her beautiful and well kept home. Fortunate were those who tasted of this rare friendship.
Rebecca N. Nibley was a true and faithful Latter-day Saint, her life conforming to the standards and practices of the Church. She had a strong testimony of the divinity of the Gospel and implicit faith in its teachings. Her life was dominated by these religious ideals, for which she was more than willing to sacrifice. It was an inspiration to hear her testimony, which was forceful and positive, gained through years of varied and remarkable experiences. Her faith in the Gospel, her loyalty to the Church and its leaders, were unbounded. She did not criticize the leaders nor the policies of the Church. In any crisis she was fearless and without any wavering or doubt. Her view point was invariably positive and orthodox.
Mrs. Nibley was a strong character—brave and fearless. She was a woman of honor and principle, a doer of right. She had no place in her life for pretense, for the hypocrite, or for the person who shirked responsibilities and obligations. She could not tolerate the idea of a person claiming to be honest and straightforward who was not so in daily practice. She loved honesty and frankness and was a typical example of the honest, straightforward, frank, outspoken individual. At the same time she was sympathetic and forgiving to those who repented of their errors, always ready to forgive, encourage them and aid them to rise again.
Born in the early days of struggle and privation in Utah and learning early the right values in life, Mrs. Nibley was an outstanding example of the resourceful Western pioneer woman—a constructive contributor to her family, her neighbor, and her community. One would go far to find a more energetic worker, a more frugal and thrifty housewife, a more helpful neighbor, or a wiser community builder. Even in her later years of prosperity she was never idle, never wasteful: and, while she was generous to a fault, she conserved and practiced economies which many in her situation would have scorned. It was her delight to save, conserve, create, and to help others to do the same.
A real philanthropist was Sister Nibley. Her own early struggle and handicaps made her sympathetic and tender toward those who were lacking in opportunity, under-privileged, or unfortunate. Generous to all in need, she was eager to help better the conditions of anyone in distress. Her good, practical advice she backed up with substantial assistance. She was a liberal contributor to her Church and to her beloved Relief Society and was known as a benefactress to hundreds of missionaries and others.
REBECCA NEIBAUR NIBLEY 475
Mrs. Nibley was born March 30, 1851, in Salt Lake City, Utah, three years after her parents reached Utah, and four years after the arrival of the Pioneers in 1847. Her parents were Alexander Neibaur and Ellen Breakel. Brother Neibaur was the first Jewish convert to the Church and was a close personal friend of the Prophet Joseph Smith. They had accepted the Gospel in Preston, England, in 1837, and immigrated to Nauvoo, leaving the latter place at the time of the general exodus of the Saints. The family underwent all the privations and hardships incident to the travels of the Saints and to early pioneer life in Utah.
On March 30, 1869, Rebecca Neibaur was married to Charles W. Nibley in the old Endowment House in Salt Lake City. She was just 18, a beautiful, wholesome, vivacious, quick-witted girl, while her husband was a handsome young Scotchman, who had already shown an interest in the business affairs of the northern part of the state and who was later to play an important part in the economic and financial development of the West. For a few years the young couple lived in Brigham City, later moving to Logan. In 1893 the family moved to Baker City, Oregon, where they remained ten years, returning to Utah in 1903 and establishing a home in Salt Lake City. Ten children were born to Brother and Sister Nibley—four girls and six boys, seven of whom survive her.
Wherever Mrs. Nibley lived she was active in Church work, holding positions in the various auxiliary organizations. She was especially devoted to the Relief Society, joining the organization at the age of sixteen. During the 61 years of her membership she served as visiting teacher, ward counselor, ward president, and General Board member. In 1909 she was called to the General Board of Relief Society in which she labored faithfully until honorably released in 1921, traveling extensively throughout the Church in the interest of the organization. She was a valuable and valued member, her business ability and good judgment being a great asset to the Board. She served in many capacities—as chairman of the Relief Society Home for Women and Girls, as a member of the Magazine Finance Committee, and a member of the Hospital Committee which supervised the purchase of all the linens for the new L. D. S. Hospital, which were contributed by the Board. She was also a member of the Friendship Circle, a group of close friends, who were most appreciative of her interesting personality and many fine qualities.
Mrs. Nibley traveled extensively both in this country and in Europe and was a keen and intelligent observer of all she encountered. She was fond of reading, was a lively conversationalist, a keen humorist, and withal a most interesting and stimulating companion and associate.
THE RELIEF SOCIETY OF THE CHURCH OF JESUS CHRIST OF LATTER-DAY SAINTS
Motto—Charity Never Faileth
THE GENERAL BOARD
MRS. CLARISSA SMITH WILLIAMS - - - - - - President MRS. JENNIE BRIMHALL KNIGHT - - - - - - First Counselor MRS. LOUISE YATES ROBISON - - - - - - Second Counselor MRS. AMY BROWN LYMAN - - - - - General Secretary and Treasurer
Mrs. Emma A. Empey Mrs. Julia A. Child Mrs. Rosannah C. Irvine Mrs. Jeanette A. Hyde Mrs. Cora L. Bennion Miss Alice Louise Reynolds Miss Sarah M. McLelland Mrs. Julia A. F. Lund Mrs. Nettie D. Bradford Mrs. Annie Wells Cannon Mrs. Amy Whipple Evans Mrs. Elise B. Alder Mrs. Lalene H. Hart Mrs. Ethel Reynolds Smith Mrs. Inez K. Allen Mrs. Lotta Paul Baxter Mrs. Barbara Howell Richards Mrs. Ida P. Beal Mrs. Lizzie Thomas Edward, Music Director Miss Edna Coray, Organist
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
Editor - - - - - CLARISSA SMITH WILLIAMS Associate Editor - - - - - ALICE LOUISE REYNOLDS Assistant Manager - - - - - Amy Brown Lyman
Room 28, Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah
Magazine entered as second-class matter at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah
VOL. XV - SEPTEMBER, 1928 - No. 9
EDITORIAL
Members of General Board Take Advantage of Summer Courses
There is a growing tendency among American women to be alert to opportunities that will make for greater efficiency in any line of work in which they may be interested. Alertness among the members of the General Board has found expression this summer in various ways. Mrs. Julia A. F. Lund, director of adult education at the Civic Center of Salt Lake City, has been attending the summer session of the University of California, where she has been interested in two courses of study; one is the history and development of adult education in Europe and America, given by Dr. Overstreet; the other, a course in child welfare under the direction of Dr. Stoltz. Adult education is coming to be most significant. Without doubt, there is with many people, a realization of the fact that it "availeth little" for the few to have knowledge unless that knowledge may be shared by the masses. For this reason leaders plan and devise work in which all may be partakers; so that, when the command is issued to advance, all are ready to proceed.
Other members of the General Board who have been taking
EDITORIAL 477
advantage of an opportunity to study, are Mrs. Emma Empey, Mrs. Julia A. Child, Mrs. Ethel R. Smith, and Mrs. Rosannah C. Irvine. They have been attending a rather early morning class in Social Hygiene at the University of Utah, conducted by Dr. Edith Hale Swift. This course is given under the direction of educational measures of the American Social Hygiene Association. Whoever is keeping up with the march of civilization must realize that a change is taking place in the attitude of the public towards sex hygiene. Many feel that the old way of hushing up everything in relation to sex development and sex life is injurious; that silence on this subject tends to debase rather than ennoble and exalt a phase of life that should be squarely and nobly met without embarrassment. That there is something to learn in relation to this phase of our existence is perhaps rather obvious. Just what it would be well to impart to others, and just what modification of past practice should be entered into, is what constitutes the problem. In the meantime it is gratifying to know we are advancing.
Infant Mortality Decreasing
It is a matter of deep gratification to be able to record that infant mortality continues to decrease in the United States. This news comes to us from the American Child Health Association through the medium of its annual report. In 1918 there were one hundred deaths per thousand, or the relatively high rate of ten percent. In 1926 the death rate had been reduced to 73.7 per thousand. Last year, 1927, it had fallen to 64.4 deaths for each one thousand births. This is certainly a notable decrease in less than a decade. If the good work continues, it will be a very short time before infant mortality among children of the United States will be cut in two. To reduce infant mortality is one of the aims of all Relief Society workers and other organizations that have gone forward in the name of the Shepherd-Towner bill. It is one of the aims of all organizations having in mind the welfare of children.
Woman to Represent British Universities Districts
We learn that a woman who is a lecturer in the University of Liverpool is to stand for the British Parliament for a number of university districts. This is a very high compliment to the intellectual attainment of the woman in question as well as a compliment to all women in the civilized world who are connected with university faculties.
Sarah Elizabeth Carmichael Williamson
By Ellen L. Jakeman
Utah's Pioneer Poetess, better known to her contemporaries as Lizzie Carmichael, was born of humble parents at Setauket, Long Island, in 1838. Her parents joined the Mormon Church, and she was brought across the plains at an early age to Salt Lake Valley, where her parents resided to the day of their death. Books were scarce and educational opportunities of the crudest, but she absorbed a wonderful amount of learning, when her opportunities are considered, and her gleanings grew and multiplied like planted grain. She had access to that masterpiece of all the ages, the Bible. Of a pure and religious turn of mind, the influence of this great work is manifest in and through all her poems. Never has a poet combined nobler purity of thought and language with greater variety of subjects. Her study of the Bible gave to her writings its own direct and
SARAH E. CARMICHAEL WILLIAMSON 479
graphic language, while it deepened the natural religious fervor of her mind. Her spirit was tense-strung and fine, her nerves a-tremble with emotion, and her blood strained very thin through too many sieves of the same tissue. There is no doubt in the minds of the pioneers who knew her, or of a later generation who are so fortunate as to be familiar with her poems, especially writers and lovers of literature, that had she retained the brilliant mind of her youth, she would have inevitably taken her place as a queen in the highest ranks of poetry and song. As it was, her career, brief and bright, spread her fame far beyond the confines of Utah. Her artistic temperament found little in the necessarily rude frontier life to feed the hunger of her soul for the beautiful, though in castellated rocks and deep-cut canyons of our rugged Wasatch hills she saw all the grandeur that are theirs.
MOON-RISE ON THE WASATCH
The stars seemed far, yet darkness was not deep; Like baby eyes, the rays yet strove with sleep; The giant hills stood in the distance proud, On each white brow a dusty fold of cloud; Some coldly gray, some of an amber hue, Some with dark purple fading into blue; And one that blushed with faint crimson jet— A sunset memory, tinged with cloud regret.
Close to my feet the soft leaf shadows stirred; I listened vainly, for they moved unheard— Trembled unconsciously; the languid air Crept to the rose's lip and perished there.
It was an hour of such repose as steals Into the heart when it most deeply feels; When feeling covers every shred of speech With one emotion language cannot reach.
And Nature held her breath and waited there, An awed enthusiast at the shrine of prayer; Like a pale devotee, whose reverent lips Stifle the breath that burns her finger-tips.
The crimson-tinted cloud paled, with a start, As though new hope chased memory from her heart; A gleam of whiteness stirred the vapor pale, As beauty's finger moved a bridal veil; A fleecy mass, wide-fringed with silver light, Drooped on the summit of the proudest height; Then, floating northward, swept in folds of grace From the white beauty of the moon's meek face.
480 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
How still, how pure, that chastened lustre bowed Its glance of radiance from its veil of cloud! How meek the loveliness, how kind the power, Whose arm of purity embraced the hour! How beautiful the misty robe that trailed O'er bloom that brightened, over stars that paled— Though its white fold caught in a dusky cave, Or swept its fingers o'er a gleaming wave, Piled on the sward a moss of woven gems, Or dragged to tatters through the forest stems.
A wave of beauty, only too complete, Surged o'er my head and widened at my feet; The skies seemed bowing with their wealth of light, Yet earth sprang heavenward, 'twas so more than bright: My heart found no expression—sought for none; Why analyze the bliss it fed upon? All its sensations blended into one— Solemn, yet shadowless—most glad, yet deep; I could not smile, yet had no wish to weep.
My restless thoughts seemed into one compressed; The eloquence of all things seemed possessed, Yet no expression: narrowed to my breast; My soul seemed to expand, my heart to melt, Blending with all that could be reached or felt. I had no wish unsatisfied, because My mind's volition felt superior laws. It seemed a ripple moved upon a tide, Whose heaving billows bade me onward glide; A breath born upward by a tempest weight— A trifling circumstance controlled by fate; Something of little worth when moved apart— One trembling fiber in Creation's heart.
Because so few spoke her language or comprehended her flights of intense feeling, she grew up shy and reticent. She wrote many small poems in her early years that were never offered for publication, but were treasured in manuscript by those whom she loved, and may be irretrievably lost. When, in her seventeenth year, she began publishing, few could believe that the poems she offered to the local newspapers were from her own pen. They were of such a lofty nature, direct and clear-cut in thought, trailing blossoms of speech and crusted with jeweled words. No one will ever know just what was said when she presented that bit of dramatic perfection: "Lucretia Borgia's Feast" to a local editor. He rejected it on the score of disbelief in her authorship. Humiliated and shamed, the poor child went to a friend, a high Church official and wept out her story. His
SARAH E. CARMICHAEL WILLIAMSON 481
gifted mind and soul could meet hers on its own ground. He told her that he knew the work was hers, and that her rare genius was the gift of God; that while it might bring her much suffering, it would be a source of exquisite delight; that she should never lose it so long as she used it worthily. He went with her to the man who had rejected it, vouched for her and her work, and the poem was published as it appears here. When Edward W. Tullidge wished to publish a sketch of this wonderful woman in the "Western Galaxy,' no copy of "Lucretia Borgia's Feast" could be found; as it was not included in the twenty-six poems that make the sum total of a slender little volume printed by her friends, but was supplied by the author of this article from memory. LUCRETIA BORGIA'S FEAST Beauty had gathered, to grace the board Where the ruby wave of the wine was poured; There were clasps of brilliants and bands of bloom, Warmth, and lustre, and rich perfume; Passionate music, low-toned and sweet, Or abrupt and quick as a heart's thrilled beat, Or proudly sad, as the voice of song When the chord it touches is deep and strong. The gay, the gifted, the bright, the fair, Of Italy's nobles had gathered there; But the comeliest form of that baccahanal band. With the darkest eye, and the snowiest hand, Who stood by the lord of the highest rank And tasted the wine ere the noble drank, Was the delicate page, whose lip's proud curve Seemed scarcely fitted to sue or serve. Wine! Wine! It flowed in a crimson stream Through the crystal cups, till its ruby gleam Shadowed a blush on the soft white hand That raised the glass from the marble stand. The hours speed on, and the music's tone Speaks of the bright and the gay alone— When sudden it ceases. A voice is heard As clear as the notes of a forest bird; The form of the singer they do not see, And it seemed to them like a melody Living and speaking without control, A beating heart and a breathing soul. They pause to listen; that careless throng Hark to the words of that strange, wild song: 482 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Life, beautiful life! Warm in the heart. Why should ever a sorrow come where thou art? What can we gain by a struggle with fate, More than this hour will give? We squander life's blossoms, and learn too late, '*Tis a beautiful thing to live! Life, beautiful life! Pluck we thy flowers!. Whate'er the coming moments bring, this is ours. Then taste life's wine with a lip as bright— Take what the hour doth give! Hold only one thought in your hearts tonight— Tis a beautiful thing to live. The laugh rang out when the song was stilled, And the golden flagons were drained and filled; But a light stole into the boy's dark eye. He kissed the cups as he bore them by, And his hand swept softly the harp's bright strings. "My Lord," hath spoken—the page shall sing: Life is lovely! Life is glorious! When its aim is high. Every breath should lift us nearer, Nearer to the sky But the life that's nobly given To a purpose deep and high, Wears a laurel braid in heaven. 'Tis a glorious thing to die. Life is lovely! Life is glorious! Every quivering breath, Every action, though victorious, Brings us nearer death. But when duties are completed, Each before its hour goes by, Death's last pang is thus defeated, 'Tis a glorious thing to die. With a quick, fierce peal and an angry clang Again the notes of the music rang, Abrupt and wild from the hidden band, While the chords yet thrilled to the boy's fair hand. The golden flagons once more they fill, Their lips are burning, their hands are chill; And they shuddering heard through the music's swell, The boy's hoarse whisper: "I am not well." Now loud and savage, then sad and low, From a sneering laugh, to a tone of woe The music speaks. Now 'tis loud and strong, But louder and fiercer that voice of song: SARAH E, CARMICHAEL WILLIAMSON Ye die unshriven before the morn, Die unforgiven, the mock of scorn. The ear of my vengeance shall drink your last sigh, And the lip of my triumph shall laugh in reply. One thread unbroken, one feverish breath— Your sentence is spoken: Your doom is death! They started up with a fearful cry, With a deep, wild terror doth eye meet eye. Jesu! Marie! What a fearful thought On faint, swift wings to their senses brought! They spurn the wine with a fenzied ire— Their hands are ice, and their lips are fire. There's a mantle of blackness above them spread, They hear the chant for the dying and dead; They see priests moving; wan tapers gleam; But each life-pulse stands like a frozen stream; And they gaze with a stupor of brain and heart As the gorgeous curtains are torn apart, And a form in velvet of sable dye, With the forehead bound with a jeweled tie, Stood looking upon them with eyes severe, And they shuddering whisper: "Lucretia's here!" The page seems fainting, but tries to stand, And eagerly stretches a small fair hand, And murmurs a name that she does not hear, Or scorned to note if it reached her ear. "You have paid me well, you are mine, all mine, You have sold your lives for a draught of wine. Was it sweet? You drank with a gracious gust. Good night. You will slumber in peace I trust. But before we part, taste again the wine. Your pledges were honored. Revenge is mine!" The page reels forward—the woman turns— What an awful light in her dark eyes burns. "Urban!" she shrieks, with a sickening fear, "Prince of the Borgies, how came your here?" "I called you Mother;" he turned away, And strove to steady his white lips' play; "I called you Mother—let that name be Forever cancelled and lost to thee! You ask me, woman, what brought me here; Listen, I'll tell you—nay, come not near— I came not knowing the way I trod, To tell you that Vengeance belongs to God. 483 484 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Be this my curse—it is dire and fell:— May thy heart's fierce passions become thy hell, Till thou'lt shuddering shrink from its savage tone, And fear to dwell with thyself alone!" "Curse not thy Mother!" "Fiend! Woman! Hush! The name of 'Mother' should make thee blush. I have no mother, and thou no son— Seeker for vengeance, thy work is done!" Then he sank to his knees, and she strove to speak, But he spurned her back with an effort weak. She clasped his form—it was icy mold That shrank from her when his heart was cold. That Sarah Elizabeth Carmichael touched and vibrated all the chords of the human heart, is found in the fact that first and last almost every one of her major poems have been denominated her masterpiece; that they were for all time—human— in that they still speak to the deepest emotions of those who read them, and with a clear, familiar voice. The question of authorship settled, poem after poem followed in quick succession through her seventeenth and eighteenth years. Her patriotic poems were widely copied in the Eastern press, often without credit. Notable among them is: "President Lincoln's Funeral,' too long for reproduction here, as also: "Ashes to Ashes." Here are two poems that touched a nation's heart at the close of the Civil War, and are just as searching and applicable to our own time and recent World War. DEAD Weep for the dead! Not those who gave The dust that fills a patriot's grave; Not for the true arm still and cold; Not for the breast that the grasses fold; Not for the bright form under the mold; Not for the heart that bled. But weep, O weep for the coward vain! Dead, for it had no pulse to drain; Dead, for it could not feel a pain; Dead to the core—dead! Dead as a soulless sentence spoke; Dead as a useless promise broke; Dead as a sightless eye awoke: Dead! SARAH E, CARMICHAEL WILLIAMSON Weep for the dead! Not those who went Home by the hand of a foeman sent; Not for the smile we see no more; Not those interred on an alien shore; Not for the life whose pain is o'er; Not for the spirit fled. Yet weep for the bosom numb and still! Dead, for it felt not patriot thrill; Dead for it had no life to spill; Dead to the core—dead! Dead as the hate of an idiot's glance; Dead as the steel of a broken lance; Dead as a last neglected chance; Dead! Weep for the dead. Not those who claim Immortal life on the scroll of fame; Not for the soul who feared but shame; Not for the life that reached its aim, Not for the step that marked in flame Print of a hero's tread. Weep for the dead that breathe and speak! Dead with a life-bloom on the cheek; Dead, for they have no aim to seek; Dead to the core—dead! Dead as the use of a wasted hour; Dead as the dew of a poisoned flower; Dead as a soul's crime-palsied power: Dead! AMPUTATED Good-bye, right arm! 'Tis hard to part With one so true and tried; One that so long hath served my heart, And waited at my side: Thy work is done—thy pain is o'er; When tear drops dim mine eye, Thy hand will dash them forth no more— Good-bye, right arm—good-bye! God-bye, right arm! On battlefield Thy strength hath served me well, And thou hast been my bosom's shield, Where blows like raindrops fell; But never more amid the strife Thou wilt be lifted high; Thy last blow saved this heart its life— Good-bye, right arm—good-bye! 486 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Good-bye, right arm! No more thou'lt start, Eager to greet my friend; But this poor one that's near my heart No colder clasp will lend. And should my country ever need A guard so maimed as I, It would be just as proud to bleed— Good-bye, right arm—good-bye! Good-bye, right arm! I should not grieve, For thou hast done thy part; Yet I can scarcely bear to leave Thee, senseless as thou art: My poor, scarred hand! I hold thee near To lips that trembling sigh, And gem thee once more with a tear— Good-bye, right arm—good-bye! Thus the fame of "Our Lizzie," as she was affectionately called, spread abroad. She received the homage of all scholarly people and of many who did not flatter themselves with such a title; but it is as well established as such a thing can be after this lapse of time, that she was never paid anything for her articles. Even her "Stolen Sunbeam" considered one of the finest poetical conceits ever penned, was a gratuitous contribution to literature. This poem was selected by Bryant for his great collection, "A Library of Poetry and Song." He took the liberty of retitling it "The Origin of Gold," but here we give it the author's original naming. THE STOLEN SUNBEAM There's a light that burns with a quenchless glow, In the wide, deep caverns of earth below; Like the fire that lives on the Parsee's shrine In the amber torch of the lighted mine. Burning forever, steadily bright; Proud and passionless, still and fair; Burning forever without a glare; Burning forever so still and deep; A quenchless flame in a dreamless sleep; And time's broad ocean may roll its waves While space hath room for the centuries' graves, It hath no billows to dim the shine Of the wizard faggot that lights the mine. Beware! Beware of a starless beam! The nightmare spell of a miser's dream! Emotionless ever, its subtle art Tugs at the strings of the world's strong heart. The stars of the earth at its bidding stoop; Awed by its menace, life roses droop; And the fairest blossoms that earth can twine, Fade near the taper that lights the mine. SARAH E, CARMICHAEL WILLIAMSON 487 ' The Fallen looked on the world, and sneered: "I guess," he muttered, "why God is feared; For eyes of mortals are fain to shun The midnight heaven that hath no sun. I will stand on the heights of the hills and wait Where the day goes down at the western gate, And, reaching up to its crown, will tear From its plumes of glory the brightest there; With the stolen ray I will light the sod, And turn the eyes of the world from God." He stood on the height when the sun went down— He tore one plume from the day's bright crown. The proud orb stooped till he touched its brow. And the marks of that touch are on it now, And the flush of its anger forevermore Burns red when it passes the western door! The severed plume, above him whirled, In flames of torture around him curled, And he dashed it down from the snowy height In broken masses of quivering light. Ah! More than terrible was the shock Where the burning splinters struck wave and rock; The green earth shuddered, and shrank, and paled, The waves sprang up and the mountains quailed: Look on the hills—let the scars they bear Measure the pain of that hour's despair. The Fallen watched while the whirlwind fanned The pulsing splinters that plowed the sand; Sullen he watched, while the hissing waves Bore them away to the ocean caves; Sullen he watched, while the shining rills Throbbed through the hearts of the rocky hills; Loudly he laughed: "Is the world not mine? Proudly the links of its chain shall shine; Lighted with gems shall its dungeons be— But the pride of its beauty shall kneel to me!" That splintered light in the earth grew cold, And the diction of mortals hath called it "Gold." Many of her contemporaneous admirers consider Lake Tahoe her finest production. When this was written not a great many people had seen that beautiful sheet of water—a lake crystal clear, situated on the summit of the Sierra-Nevada Mountains, which separate Nevada from California. Tourist travel has given its beauty to thousands, who have felt the charm they could not express. It is one of the spots she visited as a bride. LAKE TAHOE Lake Tahoe, sweetest lake of lakes! The vision of thy beauty breaks With startling power upon the eye! A sheen of water gleaming high Above the tall, dark-pointed pines; Apparently thy wave inclines Toward the sun, who pauses there 488 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE To dress his long, bright amber hair. And many a loose, thick, shining tress,: Twines round thee in a warm caress; Nor does thy bosom's picture slight His most impassioned glance of light; The day whose smile thy mirror takes, Hath named thee sweetest lake of lakes. Lake Tahoe, sweetest lake of lakes! The crescent moon oft overtakes And tramples on the soft white feet Of day, unwilling to retreat From the deep tide that charms its sense By a heart worship so intense. Oh, gem-pale amethyst that shines, Clasping the leafy crown that twines 'The proud Sierra's cold, pure brow— Shine on, forever, fair as now! Glow, many tinted water, glow! There is no brighter wave below— The Night, that mournfully forsakes, Hath named thee sweetest lake of lakes. Lake Tahoe, sweetest lake of lakes! A sense of awe profound awakes Within the heart that lingers where Thy tranquil bosom slumbers fair, Like a bright tear of pitying love, Wept warm from heaven that leans above. Sarah E. Carmichael presents such a bewildering array of beautiful poems, and such soul-searching, emotional themes that it is indeed hard to choose among them. "Allie's Baby Prayer" has been printed, anonymously printed, many times; but it shall see the light now in its proper setting, and be duly credited to its gifted author. ALLIE'S PRAYER We listened—'twas a little foot, Placed lightly on the stairs; "What is it, darling? "I forgot— Forgot to say my prayers." The mother took the little hand, And kissed the meek, low brow. And watched the tiny, white-robed form, Close down beside her brow. Ah! Pride-chilled hearts were beating near, World-darkened eyes were there; But every head was bowed to hear Sweet Allie's baby prayer. And I have knelt where holy words By earnest lips were spoke; Have felt the burning gush of thought Their eloquence awoke; SARAH E, CARMICHAEL WILLIAMSON 489 Have listened when the pleader's voice Sank quivering to a sigh, And I have bowed my head and thought *Twere beautiful to die; But never have I seen the awe Whose robes were folded there— Whose stainless fingers wove the threads Of Allie's baby prayer. It went away—that little foot— As lightly as it came, The sweet lips spoke a low "Good night," And syllabled a name; The light reflected from her hair Shone through the open door; We caught a glimpse of that white robe The angel pleader wore. Then eye met eye, and souls bowed down In deep contrition there; Stern hearts were melted by the breath Of Allie's baby prayer. Among those who read her poetry and appreciated her glorious gift was Dr. J. M. Williamson, a young army surgeon stationed at Camp Douglas, under Gen. P. E. Connor. Mr. Williamson's culture and refinement, chivalry and deference, was a balm to her soul. Their romantic courtship in 1866 was followed by marriage in 1867. Because of her terrible inheritance, the marriage was the cause of much apprehension and adverse criticism by the best of friends of both parties; but it is claimed that their union was ideal for the brief period that was theirs before the crowning disaster took them. Because she was so universally beloved by all who have had occasion to write of her and her sublime genius, not one has given a name to the surety of the doom that hung over the golden singer of the Wasatch. They are to be commended for their delicacy, but now after nearly a hundred years, and not one soul left to be wounded by it, the truth may do good and no harm. Sarah Elizabeth Carmichael was the victim of an unwise marriage. The daughter of double cousins; one of a family of seven, she and one sister were all who survived infancy. The sister, like those who died, was below normal in intelligence. Her parents were disturbed by the genius of their gifted daughter, and absolutely unable to comprehend her. Much of her writing is tinged with sadness, that will be better understood when the reader. Knows of the dark cloud that hovered over this sinless young girl; and be able to appreciate the passages that seem personal and prophetic. 490 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE That Dr. Williamson was disgusted by the calm appropriation of her labors without remuneration is a reasonable conjecture. He it was who wished her to do herself justice in literature with a price, induced her to begin the writing of a book, historical and biographical in character, of the Mormon people and prominent members. 'There is no hint that it was to be sensational or antagonistic in character; but she did not even complete the first chapter, becoming insane about a year after her marriage. Under this terrible calamity Dr. 'Williamson proved himself one of the honorable of the earth. He gave up all ambition for himself to care for this woman whom he so tenderly loved; exhausting all the scientific lore obtainable to bring back reason to the fragile body it had inhabited. The delicate thing that had fled seemed ever hovering near. Indeed one writer hints that there were lucid intervals and during those hours she wrote other poems, but if so there is no vestige of proof. Broken hearted, Dr. Williamson died in 1882, leaving his considerable property to his wife, with J. R. Walker and Boyd Park as sole executives. The frail young wife was scarcely conscious of her loss. Her parents were dead, Mr. Walker died, her sister died, and Boyd Park waxed old. Nowhere in the documents I have been permitted to examine is it spoken of, but at some time she was committed to the asylum at Provo, with special privileges and personal attendants. I saw her there in the nineties, a slender figure in a close. Fitting black dress, with a white crepe. Shawl over her shoulders, at Sabbath services—with them, but not of them. When the end was near, she was brought to her old home on State Street, Salt Lake City, to die, and was buried in the old Salt Lake Cemetery. Seven years after her death, Alfred Lambourne published an article in the Deseret News, from which we make a brief excerpt: In an apparently unvisited grave in one of the upper avenues of our City Cemetery, a grave overrun with rank grasses and weeds, and over which the head-board—the name upon it hardly decipherable and already sloping to its fall—lies the body of Sarah Elizabeth Carmichael Williamson. That neglected spot, however, is hallowed in being the resting place of a sweet woman and a true poet. We yield reluctant justice to the dead, And light the torch of fame when life hath fled. There can be but one thought of solace for the wasted life of the loved, envied, and admired child of genius—there is a plan of progress and achievement beyond this world which will provide recognition for all she has missed or suffered in the clouded pathways of the world. (Copyright applied for; all rights reserved) The Russell Sisters By Annie Wells Cannon Among the contributors to the Woman's Exponent were two young women of rather unusual literary attainments, Sarah E. And Isabel M. Russell. Schooled only in the crude educational institutions of pioneer days, these two sisters evidenced a keen sense of culture and possessed the rare gift of poetry. They came of a family widely known for its artistic and literary achievements. And, true to their heritage, did not conceal the light within. In files of old magazines and newspapers one often finds many gems of thought published over some fanciful name; the author is never known because either from modesty or fear of criticism the real name is concealed. Like many such, these two young women when they began to write for publication concealed their identity by the use of the pseudonyms "Hope" and "Millicent" respectively. Both have now passed to the great beyond, Sarah some years since, and Isabel, lovingly known as Aunt Belle, only a few months ago. It was the fact of her passing that called to mind some incidents in the lives of these two sisters and the family of which they were a part that prompted the writing of this article., The experiences of the Russell family are much the same as those of other pioneers who braved the long journey from comfortable eastern homes to the desert valleys of the West. The marks of toil, privation and hardship only intensified their faith and fidelity, and never caused them to lose the sweet refinement and spirit of that earlier part of their life when their surroundings were more comfortable. The Russells were among the first families in Canada to give a refuge and a sympathetic hearing to Parley P. Pratt when he went there with his message of the restoration of the gospel. Isaac Russell and his wife Mary Walton Russell made great sacrifices for their faith. They owned a large tract of land and other property. And had many comforts and advantages, all of which they laid on the altar to help build up the Church; and when they journeyed valley of the Great Salt Lake, they came as other poor emigrants, sharing' all with the Saints. Isaac Russell was one of the elders who in company with Brigham Young and Heber C. Kimball introduced the gospel in Great Britain. When he left his wife in Ohio to go on that mission he sold his flute to buy her some meal and left her there almost penniless. The*mother, Mary Walton, had wealthy relations in England who, when she became a widow and was left with six children, offered her and her children a 492 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE home and support. But to accept this offer meant to renounce her faith, and this she could not consider. So she struggled on, finally reaching the valley in the goodly company of her chosen people. The courage of the mother is exemplified in the daughters, who not only shared with her all the trials of pioneer life but ventured even farther into unknown lands and helped to colonize in Arizona and Mexico. Here these loyal women toiled to make homes and give happiness to many in the communities where they lived, exercising all their talents and energies as only helpful, unselfish women can under the stress of straitened circumstances. Isabel became the wife of B. F. Johnson with whom she went to Arizona in 1882. Here she taught music and worked at the tailoring trade until 1889, when the family moved to old Mexico locating at Colonia Juarez. Later they moved to the picturesque valley of Chuichupe in the tops of the Sierra Madre Mountains. Here Aunt Belle served as the president of the Relief Society until the exodus of the Latter-day Saints from the Mexican colonies. All that the family had struggled and worked for over twenty years was left behind; and she never quite ceased to regret the home in the mountains, for she was an ardent lover of nature and here, with her little family, though shut out from the luxuries and attractions of the world, she had created an atmosphere of harmonious living and contentment. Isabel Johnson wrote her first poem while at their home in Missouri when only a girl of sixteen, and throughout the long years she found solace in expressions of poetic thought. One tribute among many paid this good woman at the time of her funeral most beautifully expresses her worth. A friend and neighbor said: "As far back as I can remember Mesa, I remember Aunt Belle coming from the ranch to give music lessons. I remember the cheerfulness with which she went about her work. She was a very deep student and philosopher and improved upon the qualities she had. She was so enriched in soul that everything in nature appealed to her. She took advantage of all things that would add to her knowledge and spirituality. She raised a noble family and was always valiant in pioneer life. With implicit faith and trust in her God that was beautiful, she went on her journey unflinchingly, until at the ripe age of 85 she went back to her God, pure, sweet, and virtuous; and her influence will never die with those who knew her." Two poems culled from the columns of the Woman's Exponent—''Patchwork" by "Hope" (Sarah E. Russell) and 'Three Evening Shadows" by "Millicent" (Isabel Russell Johnson)—are here given. THE RUSSELL SISTERS 493 Patchwork Tis not genteel, they tell me now, To make a patchwork quilt, 'Tis sign of poverty they vow And poverty is guilt In worldly eyes—well let it be, But you and I should clearer see, I think it is a branch of art That forms a good, important part In home economy and joy, And pleasant hours without alloy, May thus be spent in social chat, While fingers fly this way and that Forming designs of light and shade Until a perfect piece is made; And then the quilting, oh how nice! To meet in friendship and rejoice, When work is done the circle spreads Mingling the white and golden heads Of father, mother, sister, brother— (If not your own, why then, some other) In pleasant play or may-be dance While jest and song the hours enhance; From many a patchwork quilt I trace Some well known name, some dear, dear face, And from one star will spring anew, Some time of love and friendship true, Our parents loved these simple joys, Shall we forget—their girls and boys, And in the new scenes scorn the old? Ah no! There lies the purest gold, And is not life all patchwork too Our thoughts and actions, false or true, Pieces that go to form the whole Great plan divine the Gods control; Then be our station high or low Lets cut and fit the pieces so That perfect shape and colors blend, Praying that One above to lend His wisdom where our own would fail Courage when our weak hearts would quail, Then may our life work be replete In all things perfect and complete. —Hope (Sarah E. Russell). 494 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Three Evening Shadows Creeping down, creeping down, Shadows with a golden crown; Shadows in the valley lying Gold upon the mountains dying; Creeping down, gently down Shadows gray with golden crown. 'Tis thus the shades of evening fall In youth; when Trustfulness o'er all A tender beauty throws; Holding without its trembling veil Dark hours that droop with sorrow pale With tears, vain hopes and woes. Falling down, falling down, Shadows with a sable crown; Shadows on the heart and valley, Clouds on the hills, in blackness rally, Falling down, dimly down, Shadows deep, with death dark crown. Thus when the veil is rent apart, And troubles gather round the heart, And the pale hours press on; Each with its weary weight of pain Till doubt and anguish cloud the brain, - And trust and peace are gone. Falling down, gently down, Shadows with a snowy crown Trembling hands are weaving now, Flowers pale for painless brow Shadows 'round death's solemn bier Rest to the heart so troubled here. Thus when the ills of life. Are past, And that far shore is won at last, Where shadows never fall; And many are the eyes that weep, Watching across life's stormy deep, Waiting the angel's call. —Millicent (Isabel R. Johnson). Notes from the Field By Amy Brown Lyman SOCIAL SERVICE ITEMS Educational Work. Mrs. Julia A. F. Lund, a member of the General Board of Relief Society, and director of Adult Education at the Civic Center in Salt Lake City, attended Summer School at the University of California. Mrs. Lund took up two courses of study, both of which will be most helpful to her in her future work. One course was the history and development of Adult Education in Europe and America, given by Dr. Overstreet, who is considered the best authority on this subject; the other was a course in Child Welfare, a group discussion course conducted by Dr. Stoltz, head of Child Welfare work in the state of California. Social Hygiene at the University of Utah. A course in Social Hygiene was given at the University of Utah Summer School by Dr. Edith Hale Swift, under direction of Educational Measures of the American Social Hygiene Association. Many down-town people availed themselves of this excellent opportunity of getting expert instructions on this important subject. The General Board was represented in this course by Mrs. Emma A. Empey, Mrs. Julia A. Child, Mrs. Ethel R. Smith, and Mrs. Rosannah C, Irvine. The class met daily from 8 to 9 o'clock during the Summer session. Public Health Nursing. Because of the increasing demand for public health nurses, interest in this profession is growing. Many of the school districts are placing public health nurses in the schools, and a number of counties are making plans to install county nurses. Only hospital graduate nurses are eligible for public health nurse training, and the time required for the course is from 8 to 10 months in universities offering this work. The General Board of Relief Society has recently received six applications for loans from the Clarissa S. Williams Public Health Nurse Loan Fund. The young women applying are graduate nurses who are planning to enter training, either at the University of California or the University of Washington. Within the last year and a half the Relief Society was instrumental in the training of two public health nurses, Miss Irene Harris and Miss Florence West of Ogden, both of whom secured positions immediately after being graduated—Miss West in Box Elder County and Miss Harris in. Sanpete County. By action of the Utah Tuberculosis Association, Miss West was recently appointed director of the Christ- 496 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE mas Seal Health Camp in Big Cottonwood Canyon from July 9 to September 1, and on September 1 she will take up work for the year with the Nebo school district. Miss Harris has been engaged for next year by the Provo City Schools. Children's Vacations. Through the generosity of the General Board, of some local business men in Salt Lake City, and of a number of Relief Society stake boards, a number of malnourished and under-privileged children of Salt Lake City, will be given the opportunity of spending a few weeks in the country. Plans for the work are being supervised by the Family Welfare Department of the General Board. In addition to this excellent project, the Welfare Department is fortunate in having the further opportunity of sending ten children to the Child's camp conducted by the Utah Tuberculosis Association in Big Cottonwood Canyon from July 9 to September 1. The children selected for this camp will be those most in need of the care which the camp offers. Social Service Institutes. At the request of the Relief Society officers of these stakes, three social service institutes have recently been held in outlying stakes—Maricopa, St. Joseph, and Idaho Falls. The institutes in each covered a period of one week, and were conducted by social workers from the staff of the Relief Society Family Welfare Department at the headquarters office. Miss Genevieve Thornton, case supervisor of the department, conducted the institute at Maricopa; Mrs. Annie D. Palmer, assistant supervisor, conducted that at St. Joseph; and Mrs. Amy W. Evans of the welfare staff, and member of the General Board, was in charge at Idaho Falls. In asking for social service institutes the purpose of these stake Relief Societies is their desire to improve in every possible way their social work with families needing this service. The aim is also to secure as much uniformity in these matters as possible throughout the stakes. To insure this result, it was felt that a general understanding of the basic principles of social work is necessary, together with a knowledge of the most constructive procedure in the treatment of families under care. The ultimate aim is always to bring the family back, as soon as possible, to a normal way of living, and to avoid purely palliative relief, which weakens rather than strengthens a person or a family. The reading assigned and the lessons outlined were designed to meet these aims. In order to get all the service needed for a family, an understanding of, and cooperation with, the other helpful agencies and organizations of the community was provided for; and a study was made of the community, county, and state agencies for health, relief, and other service. NOTES FROM THE FIELD 497 The general plan of the institutes was as follows: No meetings were held in the morning. This time was left free for private consultation with the field worker on any matter or problem upon which any president felt she would like special advice. In one stake the regular meetings were held both afternoons and evenings, while in another a longer session was held in the afternoon. In addition to Relief Society president, social service aids, stake presidents, and board members, Bishops were invited; and all showed a good spirit of cooperation with the presidents, though their attendance was more casual. The women were asked to do some preparation work in the way of reading. The Art of Helping People Out of Trouble, by Karl de Schweinitz, Executive Secretary of the Philadelphia Charities, was used as a text. This book sets out, in a very readable way, the major principles of social work, with interesting illustrations and cases in point. A number of these books were forwarded to the stake about two weeks prior to the date of the institute, and the women were asked to read the book and to be prepared to discuss the principles laid down and the instances cited. The preparation was good, and the women showed much interest in this required reading. In addition to assigned readings, each person in the class was given a mimeographed "outline covering the main points of the lessons given by the social worker conducting the class. These outlines were kept by the women for future reference. On all phases of the work the discussion in the classes was lively, and the efforts and ability of the women taking part were very gratifying to the class leaders. The Maricopa institute was held at Mesa, Arizona. In the sessions devoted to a study of community, county, and stake resources, persons representing the Juvenile Court, the County, Child Welfare Board, the State Rehabilitation work and the compulsory attendance work of the schools were invited into the meetings, to discuss proper use of these agencies by the communities of the stake. The proper utilization by the various communities, of free medical sources, was also gone into after consultation by the worker in charge with the county physician, the Phoenix Free Clinic, and some cooperative private physicians. The matter of division between wards and the Phoenix Family Service Society of responsibility for families applying to the Phoenix wards for assistance, was taken up after consultation with the executive secretary of that Society. It was found that cooperation of the Phoenix wards was desirable here in order to avoid having families under the supervision of both the ward and the Family Service Society at the same time. Closer cooperation was welcomed by both the Relief Society women and the Family Service Society of that city. In Mesa good cooperation exists between the Church and the " 498 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Community Fund. The amount of money available from this source is not large, but the ward Relief Societies, by holding a bazaar, cooperate in securing it. The fund is in charge of a volunteer, Mr. Charles Flynn, who has served in this capacity for seven years, and who cooperates freely with ward presidents and Bishops of Mesa in the matter of recommending assistance from this fund when it is felt that this is needed for a family. Mrs. Emma Rollins, stake social worker, gives Mr. Flynn a good deal of assistance in investigating cases coming to the attention of the fund. In St. Joseph stake, where wards are separated from the stake house by many miles, a. Three-hour session was held every afternoon for six days. Interest in lesson work was sustained throughout all the sessions and outside reading was reported daily. The State Child Welfare Board was represented at most of the meetings., Several Bishops and one member of the High Council attended. On the Sunday following the institute, the social worker, through the courtesy of President Payne, was privileged to address various departments of the Union meeting. In the department of Stake Presidency and Bishopric, the general plan of the work and need of close cooperation were stressed. In Idaho Falls stake, all the social agencies in the community were invited to participate in the institute. There were in attendance, beside Relief Society ward presidencies, social service aids and stake board members, ward bishops and counselors, high councilmen, stake Priesthood presidency, representatives of the local Child Welfare League, secretary of the Red Cross, public health nurse, county physician, county commissioner, Judge of the Juvenile Court, probation officer, and superintendent of the L. D. S. Hospital. Aside from the regular course, many community problems were discussed, and by all, a better understanding obtained of the work of each agency. In all three stakes, time was taken at the last session held for discussion of cooperation between Bishops and ward Relief Society presidents. Appreciation for the good support they feel they have from each other was expressed by both Relief Society presidents and the Bishops present. A few presidents expressed the feeling that they need a more definite time for regular consultation with their Bishops, while others reported a regular conference period with them. Mrs. Mamie Clark, president of Maricopa stake Relief Society, Mrs. Ethel D. Payne, president at St. Joseph stake, and Mrs. Clara Brunt, president at Idaho Falls, deserve much credit, as do all those who took part in contributing to the effectiveness in these institutes. Two of the Salt Lake stakes, Liberty and Grant, have recently been active in studying social work. During the past season, NOTES FROM THE FIELD 499 official workers from each of these stakes have met weekly at the headquarters of the Relief Society for ten weeks, covering a good, deal of work in the principles of social service and in the treatment of families needing care. The use of community resources was gone into in detail, this problem being always more complicated in the larger cities. The women showed decided interest and eagerness to do their work in the most helpful way. In these Salt Lake City stakes, instruction in social service work and the discussion of the problems has a double value: (1) The Family Welfare Department assists all stakes of the city in doing active case-work with the families needing attention and thus comes into close touch with the ward presidents, social service aids and the Bishops. (2) This co-operation results also in the acquisition of knowledge necessary to care for families constructively and in the bringing about of a better acquaintance and a greater personal appreciation of efforts of ward workers and the Family Welfare Department workers. These two stakes met separately to study principles of social work and the best methods of caring, for families in need. In each case the Relief Society stake presidency, the ward presidents, and the ward social service aids took active part. At the end of the tenth week these groups decided to continue meeting once a month as a case conference to discuss difficult problems of timely interest. These meetings have continued through the spring, and are just now adjourning for the summer. Both the stake women and the general office feel that these meetings have been very beneficial to all and that they are of definite value in securing greater uniformity of work and in bringing about a better understanding of the work generally. The two stake Relief Society presidents, Mrs. Winifred B. Daynes of 'Grant stake, and Mrs. Hazel Greenwood of Liberty stake, attended the sessions and took active part in the discussions. At the close of the Liberty stake classes a joint meeting with the stake presidents, Bishops, and Relief Society workers of the stake, was held at the home of Mrs. Hazel Greenwood, Relief Society president. In this meeting, cooperation between Bishops and Relief Society presidents and between the wards and the Family Welfare Department of the general office was discussed, the purpose being to secure as close a working relationship as possible between these groups. In general a very good spirit of helpfulness and willingness to be of mutual service to each other was shown. The need of close cooperation in all parts of social service work was clearly indicated. The diligent efforts of stake presidents and their assistants in helping to carry out arrangements for these classes and institutes has been very much appreciated by the General Board and by the. Welfare Department staff. Guide Lessons for November LESSON I Theology and Testimony (First Week in November) "PEARL OF GREAT PRICE" "Again the Kingdom of Heaven is like unto a merchant man seeking goodly pearls, who when he had found one pearl of great price sold all that he had and bought it." Matthew 13:45-46. Evidently the purpose of this parable was to awaken interest in the value of seeking the Kingdom of Heaven, and the purpose of this lesson is to awaken interest in a Book which clearly points the way to the Kingdom of Heaven. "The Name and Place as Scripture." By reference to the title page of the volume it will be seen that it is "A Selection from the Revelations, Translations, and Narratives of Joseph Smith, first Prophet, Seer, and Revelator to the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints." This Seer was a "Choice Seer,' and this book contains choice selections from his inspired productions. As an illuminator of truth it is a pearl; as concentrated knowledge, it is of great value. It can be read aloud clearly, in less time than it takes to attend a theatre; and yet there are paragraphs that may hold the attention for hours. It deals with the revelations of God to man, from the answering of a simple question as to which church was right, up to an explanation of the universe. The "Pearl of Great Price" is one of the four standard works of the Church, and this position recommends it as a field of profitable study and a safe source of reference. The Contents. The Book contains the visions of Moses under the title of "The Book of Moses;" "The Book of Abraham;" and "Writings of Joseph Smith." The consistent division of the contents into chapters and verses and the extensive marginal references make the Book in its present form an up-to-date student's text, lacking only a concordance to bring its study on a level of convenience equal to that of its three companion volumes of Scripture. GUIDE LESSONS FOR NOVEMBER 501 THE BOOK OF MOSES. General View. This part of the "Pearl of Great Price" is a revelation to Joseph the Seer of what the Lord showed to Moses concerning the creation and the history of man down to the flood. In many respects the revelation is a reproduction of the events as recorded in the Bible; but new light is thrown on, and we get the story with more simplicity and directness. In fact it may be said that many new and precious truths have been restored in this latter-day presentation of the Visions of Moses. Some Doctrines and Principles Illuminated. 1. The Personality of Man's Spirit. In his visions Moses saw God with his Spiritual eyes, that is, with the eyes of his spirit; he heard the voice of the Lord with the spiritual ears, and conversed with the Deity with a spiritual tongue. The communication between Moses and the Lord was, so far as the man was concerned, a spiritual communion. It was a case in which the Spirit of a mortal was called into the presence of God with His glory not all veiled, and there in the spirit was shown and told things to be remembered and revealed by the mortal man: a circumstance in proof of the possibility of a mortal remembrance of what is learned through the spirit only. 2. The Personality of the Evil One. No one can consistently believe in the Visions of Moses and deny the personality of Satan. From a human testimony point of view, the evidence of Satan's individuality out-weighs the testimony concerning the: Personality of God. Moses viewed Satan with his natural or physical eyes, and God with his spiritual eyes. The contest between Lucifer and Moses points to four facts: First. That the Devil is a person. Second. That the Evil One can be seen by the natural eye. Third. That man can resist the Evil One. Fourth. That the Evil (One can be banished by man in the name of Jesus Christ. The Attitude of Moses is a Key to Conquest in the Field of Temptation. He felt and knew that he was a son of God and therefore standing upon the apex of self-respect; he then weighed the tempter with a demand for light. "Where is thy Glory? Is a good question to have in readiness for the tempter. 3. The Fatherhood of God. The Lord made plain his parental relationship to man by saying 502 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE to Moses: "Thou art my son," and frequently addressing him as "Moses, My Son." Moses was born a son of God in the premortal state; but as a man he became a son of God through baptism. 6:66-68. The tenderness of God as a parent was shown by something stronger than words when the Almighty wept at the contemplation of what the wayward of his family would suffer. Wrong-doing has a double terror when seen as something that hurts not only man but his Maker also. 7:28-31. 4. Obedience the First Law of Heaven. The first commandments after the fall required, not blind obedience, but the obedience of confidence. The upward climb of the race began with the obedience of confidence, the obedience of faith. It leads heavenward. 5:5-7, Entrance into the Kingdom of Heaven is impossible without the child attitude, the willing attitude, the trusting attitude, and the attitude of perfect confidence. "Except ye be converted and become as little children, ye shall not enter into the Kingdom of Heaven." Matt. 18:3. So spake the Savior of mankind, and then he added: ''Whosoever, therefore, shall humble himself as this little child is greatest in the Kingdom of Heaven." He knew that the foundation of greatness is humility, the only safeguard against humiliation. He was and is the way and the life. How often he taught the lesson of the obedience of confidence by declaring that his will was subordinated to the will of his Father. 5. The Earth Affected by the Conduct of Those Who Live On It. The Earth is heard to mourn: "Woe, woe is me, the mother of men. I am pained. I am weary because of the wickedness of my children. When shall I rest and be cleaned from the filthiness which is gone out of me? When will my Creator sanctify me that I may rest, and righteousness for a season abide upon my face?" 7 48. We know that a part of the earth may be affected by our conduct all the time. No one can say that his hand steals or that his tongue lies. The body is a tabernacle in which we live, it is an instrument which we use. Why is the cheek flushed with hope and paled by fear? There is more than sentiment in dedicating a home and in praying for the earth to yield. It is not inconsistent to believe that the things which respond to the mind may have some of the universal mind in them. "The wind and wave obey His will' may be as philosophical as it is poetic. GUIDE LESSONS FOR NOVEMBER 503 In the light of our study it would seem that the goodness of man gives happiness to His Creator and to the earth on which he lives; also that the evil which man does and says is a source of sorrow to his God and to the earth itself. The cliff that sends back the song may not be conscious of the reaction; but it is more or less affected, and it is better fitted to echo harmony than it was before. So the violin is made sweeter-toned every time it is made to produce good music. A part of the earth was so sanctified by the righteousness of the people that it became heaven—the abode of God—that part of the Earth did not mourn, 7:16-24. QUESTIONS AND PROBLEMS What is the stated purpose of this lesson? How did we get the "Pearl of Great Price?" What does it contain that justifies its title?. Name the four Standard Church Works, and tell what the term "Standard Church Works" means to you. ~ 5. What is there about the make-up of the volume that recommends it as an up-to-date student text? 6. Give a general view of what the Book of Moses contains. 7. From the Book of Moses prove the personality of God. 8. Name evidences of the personality of the evil one? 9, Wherein does the Book of Moses throw new light on the Fatherhood of God? 10. Prove that baptism is a birth by which mortals become Sons of God. 6:66-68. 11. Wherein is baptism a free-agency birth? 12. Distinguish between blind obedience and the obedience of confidence. 13. What are the evidences that the earth as a planet is affected by the conduct of those for whom it was created? 14. Discuss the following: "Bad thoughts unspoken fall over backward, dead; But God Himself can't kill them when once they're said." 15. To what extent, if any, has this lesson increased your interest in the "Pearl of Great Price?" 3 Oo NI 504 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE LESSON I] Work and Business (Second Week in November) TEACHERS' TOPIC FOR NOVEMBER—THE HOME RELIGION IN THE Home "If hope springs eternal from the human breast it is because life is motivated by religion."—Pope. "Faith in God is the first principle of revealed religion. It is the initial point in a man's spiritual career. It becomes the one governing factor and force in his life. It controls his actions and determines his destiny."—Nephi L. Morris. "The country needs more religion. I can conceive of no adequate remedy for the evils which beset society except through the influence of religion."—President Coolidge. "There is no narrowing so deadly as the narrowing of man's horizon of spiritual things. No worse evil could befall him in his course on earth, than to lose sight of heaven and it is not civilization that can prevent this; it is not civilization that can compensate for it. No widening of science, no possession of abstract truth can identify for an enfeebled hold on the highest truth of humanity. 'What shall a man give in exchange for his soul'."—-Motto in chapel of Stanford University, Palo Alto. I. Responsibility of teaching religion in the home is required Natural Law. Organized Society. Direct command of God. (Doc. And Cov. 68:25.) Necessary to Salvation. "We cannot be saved in ignorance—The Prophet Joseph Smith. II. Application of the Gospel principles in the home brings an ideal order of living. DOA PSs A. Family prayers. B. Attendance Sacrament Service, Observance of Sabbath. Day. C. Respect for authority. D. Payment of Tithes. E. Observance of Home Evenings. F. Opening of home to Church agencies and officers. For council and committee meetings, etc. G. Other principles of the Gospel. Example is the most powerful form of religious training. "Until reason is ripe, example is more direct than precept."
GUIDE LESSONS FOR NOVEMBER 505
LESSON III Literature (Third Week in November)
ELSIE CHAMBERLAIN CARROLL
One of the most prolific writers among the women of the Church is Mrs. Elsie Chamberlain Carroll. For many years her poems and stories have appeared in practically all of the Church magazines, so that her writings are known wherever these magazines have had circulation. She was born and reared in southern Utah, the daughter of Thomas and Elinor Hoyt Chamberlain, who, in the early history of the Church, were called with their parents to settle the Muddy Mission, and who later helped in the establishment of the United Order at Orderville. When the order broke up, Thomas Chamberlain was given his share of the common property which he had helped to accumulate. It consisted of a tract of farming land about three miles north of Glendale, known as Lake Farm because of the beautiful and natural lake which nestles at the foothills on its northern border. Here Elsie spent her childhood, living a healthy, normal life with her many brothers and sisters, the Chamberlain family being one of the largest in the Church. Elsie's mother, a natural nurse, took care of members of the family when they were ill, and of other persons in the community who required her services. At her death, which occurred in 1927, the devotion of the family is revealed through a tribute written by Mrs. Carroll entitled Our Mother
No matter what the trials may be That cross our future way; No matter what the pains we bear; How dark may seem this day; We know our lives have been more blest, Than lives of many others, For God had few such gifts to give As she, our queen of mothers.
For us she suffered to give life; For us she toiled and smiled; Her willing hands for us ne'er tired; Our pains she shared, beguiled. Though shadows often crossed her years— Such burdens as crush others— Her courage ever pierced the dark: A symbol for all mothers.
506 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
Her lips spoke only words of good— Of wisdom, peace, and cheer; Her soul breathed only faith That banished doubts and fear. So patient! Gentle!—every thought A loving care for others: A life of service, sacrifice— A model for all mothers.
Now God has called her home to those She loved, who went before. Our world is desolate and dark; Gone is our joy of yore. But gone can never be the light She gave to us and others. Oh, may we worthy be of her— Our Mother, Queen of Mothers!
When Elsie was fourteen, she moved with her mother's family from the farm in Long Valley to Kanab, where her father had purchased a mercantile business. This place became her home until her marriage. She attended the grade school and had two years of high school in Kanab, Then she went to the Brigham Young University, where she finished high school. From that institution she has taken also the bachelor's and the master's degree. In 1907 Miss Chamberlain married Charles Hardy Carroll. The romance leading to this marriage started in the childhood days when they sat across the aisle from each other in the little log school house in Long Valley. Among Mrs. Carroll's most treasured keep-sakes are a number of valentines yellowed with age; these she received from her childhood lover on consecutive valentine days from the time she was eight years of age for several years thereafter. The message on the first one reads:
Elsie, my darling, your eyes are so bright They hold every bit of my heart with their light. And if, when we are older, my bride you will be, I am sure we'll nothing but happiness see,
Another bears this inscription:
Charming little Elsie, you've stole my heart away, But I'll try to live without it if you'll send me yours, for pay. And in the years that's coming, how happy I will be If you'll frown on all the other boys and save your smiles for me.
These childhood sentiments seemed to be prophetic of a happiness that did come with a later marriage and that lasted unbroken for seventeen years until Dr. Carroll was called home in 1925. Dr. C. H. Carroll was a graduate of the Brigham Young University and a teacher at that institution both before and after he
GUIDE LESSONS FOR NOVEMBER 507
received his medical degree. He did his medical work at Cornell and Chicago Universities, taking out his degree from Rush Medical College. At the time of his death he was medical director at the Brigham Young University and a popular physician and surgeon of Provo City. During the time that Dr. Carroll was studying, Mrs. Carroll did English work at both Cornell and the University of Chicago. Mrs. Carroll is the mother of two children, Helen and Charles. Helen was married during the month of June to Donald Lloyd. A matter of more than usual interest to the family attaches to the June Commencement of 1928; for at that time Mrs. Carroll took her master's degree, her daughter Helen took her bachelor's degree, and her son Charles was graduated from high school. Since childhood Mrs. Carroll has been interested in writing. When she graduated from the eighth grade, she wrote a little two-act dramatization, which her class presented; and while at the B. Y. U., working on the staff of the White and Blue. She has won several prizes. Her first story in any of the Church magazines was a prize story written the year after she was married and published in the Young Woman's Journal. She wrote the story and decided not to submit it. Her husband found it in the waste-basket, copied it, and sent it without her knowledge to the office. The story won the prize of twenty-five dollars. Most of Mrs. Carroll's efforts have been in the field of the short story, but she has written considerable poetry. The Relief Society Magazine has published a number of her best poems. "A Mood," expressing a longing for the loveliness and inspiration of Western nature, was written while she was in Chicago when her husband was taking his medical course.
A Mood
I'm sick of the dirt and the strife and the din; Of political scandals; of rumors of sin; Of the pomp of the rich; the wail of the poor; Of the incessant grafting; the glitter and lure; I'm sick of the faces I see without end— The faces of strangers with never a friend; I'm sick of the tumult of passions that play Such a havoc with peace in my heart every day: The passions of hate, of envy and pity— O, I'm sick of it all, I'm sick of the city!
And I long for a glimpse of a mountain so high That its snow-covered summit is kissed by the sky. For the glint of a sunbeam, unsullied by smoke; For the calm of a silence that's never been broke;
508 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
For the flash of a bird's wing high over green trees; For the smell of the woods wafted by on cool breeze; For the deep sense of homage that bids me to kneel And pour out my love for all that I feel. Oh, I long once again to sip from those fountains Of courage and faith to be found in the mountains.
The World War aroused emotion of varying sorts in the hearts of mankind. This narrative poem was written during the war:
The Vision
The moon peeped in a window where A white-faced mother kneeled in prayer, And wrapped her in its shimmering light, And heard the prayer she breathed that night.
"O God, it is so hard to pray With battles raging every day; My boy's across the blood-tinged sea! E'en prayer brings little peace to me.
"They tell me he is big and tall. Ah me! He was so pink and small When I went near the gates of death To give to him of life's sweet breath.
"It seems but yesterday he slept Safe on this breast. The tears I wept Were from a heart o'erflown with joy. What pride, what love, I gave my boy!
"What happy work! I'd dream and plan The things he'd do when grown a man. Was all my love and dreaming done To make a target for a gun?
"I know my heart is hard tonight; I somehow can't shut out the sight Of bloody forms and reaching hands Across the sea in death-strewn lands.
"It is my baby over there. God, can't you take a mother's prayer And make a wall of it to shield Her baby in the battle-field?
"If not, dear Father, touch my heart And make it strong to bear its part. I would be brave and true as he, But all my strength must come from thee."
GUIDE LESSONS FOR NOVEMBER 509
The moon in pity kissed her hair And swiftly wrought a vision fair. It was the cross of Calvary. But lo! Its burden was not He
Who gave the world its joy. The martyr was a soldier-boy. A great white flag above unfurled: "Democracy for all the world!"
"Dear God," she cried, "I see the light. His is the cross of Human Right. As Christ once suffered, gladly he Now gives his life for Liberty.
"No longer is it hard to pray For now I see the breaking day When that great flag shall be unfurled And wave unstained o'er all the world.
"And if he dies—my boy—if he Can never more come back to me,— I'll humbly, proudly bear my loss— My boy's a savior on a cross!"
Mrs. Carroll has always been interested in young women and exceedingly successful in her contacts with them. During the time she was dean of girls at the Provo High School she wrote the following poem, which was read at the Girls' Day Program in that institution:
The Modern Girl
The modern girl with a fluff of hair, With a dimpling cheek and a smile, Eagerly searching the zest of life; Practicing charms to beguile; The modern girl with a don't-care shrug, With a wilful tilt to her chin, Watching the whirl of the world go by, With never a care what traditions have been; The modern girl in a flapper's guise; With brow unafraid and serene; The worry of elders, perhaps—but she Knows in her heart she's a queen.
And so as a queen her trust she'll keep— Her trust to the ages of time. She still holds it dear, in her larger sphere That womanhood spark divine.
510 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
The modern girl, she will carry on As the girls of the past have done. She'll meet her life as they met theirs, With a larger victory won.
A number of the most telling poems written by Mrs. Carroll are those which voice the deep loss she sustained in the untimely death of her husband. The union of Dr. And Mrs. Carroll was one of great happiness, and the separation sounded the very depths of her soul. One of the poems bearing on this event was read at the Conference last April. Another, which has been set to music by Professor William F. Hanson of the Music Department of the Brigham Young University, is called "The Void."
The Void
I cannot see your dear, dear face, I cannot hear your voice, nor feel The loving pressure of your hand. I wait in vain your footstep now, And wake with empty arms that reach In longing, and a soul that bleeds And throbs and aches through endless hours.
You must be somewhere, somewhere, dear. If only I could know that you Are still that YOU I love, That you are happy, dear; And that you know how hard I try To keep my courage strong for you Because you asked me to be brave.
If only you could stretch your hand From out the great, vast dark abyss Of doubt and mystery and fear And let me know you know and love— O then I could be brave No matter what the trials that come; O then I could be brave—but now!
The music to "The Void" may be obtained at a small cost from Professor William F. Hanson.
CLAIRE STEWART BOYER
Mrs. Claire Stewart Boyer has brought to us in her poetry a significant touch from the home, and has also written poems that reflect the birds and trees of her native environment here in the mountains. Over thirty years ago a baby girl arrived at the home of Professor and Mrs. William M. Stewart in Salt Lake City, Utah. As a boy had been desired and expected, the newcomer had to be held
GUIDE LESSONS FOR NOVEMBER 511
on approval until all members of the family had voted whether or not she should remain. Fortunately for her the ayes had it, and for a brief period life revolved about this fourth child, who was to be known as Claire. About that time the kindergarten movement was waxing strong in Utah, and at the age of four Claire rode several miles every morning on the handlebars of her sister's bicycle to attend kindergarten. Thus began her educational life, which was rich and full in its entirety. The Training School was Professor Stewart's joy and pride. Here were teachers, brought from all over the United States because of their rare understanding and abilities. And upon the growing mind of the little girl each teacher stamped a significant impression, which will remain ever as a distinct force in her life. It was Elizabeth Kimball, teacher of the fourth grade, who discovered a spark of literary talent in the child, and who sought ardently to develop it. Subscriptions to St. Nicholas, Youth's Companion, and the Juvenile Instructor, luxuries to children in those days, were secured, and an intense love of literature resulted. At home every new educational feature was installed as soon as it came out. A sand table and blackboard occupied the entire side of the library, and all the blocks and colored balls and sense developing games that were just being introduced into the schools, together with great cases of fascinating books were the most prominent furnishings of the room. Here was indeed a paradise for children in the nineties. During the summer months the Stewart family went to their ranch in Provo canyon. Here were spent the happiest days of Claire's life, for here she enjoyed communion with nature and a more intimate companionship with members of the family than was possible during the winter months. Her father was a great idealist and an intense lover of nature. The beauty of Pine Valley at dawn overwhelmed him with ecstasy. Many mornings each summer the little girl would be called from her bed, and a moment later would be standing with her hand in her father's gazing silently at this five o'clock glory. Not until many years later was she able to express those moments in poetry. "The Hill Wife" and "Dawn" are recollections of such mornings. Her only attempt at the time to express the beauties of nature, was the habit of walking alone up the canyon road, and trying to make up phrases that would describe what she saw and felt. But these oral creations were all lost on the wind. In high school she was again inspired by a teacher, Dr. Adam S. Bennion. Here also were established most precious friendships, one of which resulted in a close study of modern poetry, which resulted in the composition of quite a number of poems molded upon the forms of Amy Lowell and her contemporaries. At the University of Utah she won literary prizes and honors and became editor of the Pen, the literary magazine of the University. She was especially encouraged in poetry by Charles Wilbert Snow, the Eastern poet, who said in parting, "It is up to such Western-born hearts as yours to write the glory of this country. We Easterners can't. It is up to you to immortalize your meadow lark and your sea-gulls." Those words, cherished for over ten years, were instrumental in the execution of the poems "Sea Gulls" and "The Meadow Lark." Claire Stewart graduated from the University in 1916 and taught in the state high schools until 1919. In 1918 she was married in San Diego to Lieutenant D. A. Boyer of Springville, Utah. They had been college chums and co-participants in dramatics at the University under the direction of Miss Babcock. A few weeks after their marriage Mr. Boyer sailed to France and Mrs. Boyer began writing poetry in earnest, from two to five poems a week, completing in the year a volume of love and war poems. After the war Mrs. Boyer wrote only occasionally, when inspired. Some of her best poems of this period have appeared in the Relief Society Magazine. They are "Her Things," "Child," "Aunt Em" and "If Ye Have Faith." Other poems have been published in New York and Boston magazines. Recently the muse has been with her constantly, and this year she has written more and better poems than ever before. She has compiled a volume entitled "Wife O' the West," which she hopes to publish soon. They are most of them home poems and observations on life. Several of these follow. Mrs. Boyer is the mother of two sons, and of a daughter who died in 1924. She has some of the idealism of her father, whose advice always was, "If you cannot realize the ideal, idealize the real." Her mother's ambition and persistency in the accomplishment of the tasks she sets herself, have always been an inspiration and an incentive to her to go on in the face of many discouragements. There are two great urges within her which cry for development—the desire to write and the desire to teach, inherited from her mother and her father respectively. She has private students in both reading and writing. At present she is very proud of a class in "Writing for Magazines" the members of which are publishing stories, poems, and plays in prominent magazines. From Mrs. Boyer's biographical sketch we learn that "The Hill Wife" and "Dawn" were inspired by her early morning walks with her father. "The Hill Wife" was published in the Relief Society Magazine some time ago. "Dawn" we shall include in this lesson:
Dawn
The jeweled fingers of the Lady Dawn Caught a cloud-cluster idling in the air, And turned it to a wreath of primroses To nestle in the glory of her hair;
GUIDE LESSONS FOR NOVEMBER 513
Then flinging scarfs of gossamer aside, Like rainbow colors free to dance and play, She bared one shoulder from the coverlets And pursed her coral lips to kiss the day.
As examples of her nature poems and particularly of those growing out of her native environment we include "The Meadow Lark," "My Mountains," and "Buds."
The Meadow Lark
A melody pierces the perfect dawn! I bound from my bed like a startled faun, And dash the dripping sleep from my eyes— A meadow lark carries my heart to the skies As I look up.
Like waters that leap in the laughing sun And sing with the splendor of day begun, The throbbing tones challenge and lure and beseech, Telling me God is within my reach If I look up.
My Mountains
You don your gowns for me: your blue March gown With snow-spun lace revelers; your April frock Of timid green and gems of amethyst, Which puts a sacred hush upon my love.
Then summer comes and you are mad with joy, You pose before me in your gown of blooms: A robe of saffron over emerald, Three shades of laughing blue, a scarlet scarf, And you expect me to retain my heart.
Not half content with these, you mock my love In Autumn dress, a fluttering gypsy maid With chestnut skin, your lips ripe-berry stained, Your skirts long sweeps of radiating rays, Crimson and gold—chaotic harmonies.
When I would speak you suddenly grow cold, I kneel in silent worship at your feet, And when I raise my eyes I see you robed In chaste white garments for your burial.
So must each lover, over-awed by love And over-hushed by beauty, be content To watch the passing of the one he loves, And wait the coming of another Spring.
Buds
I never see a rosebud in the spring, First blush of joy to an expectant bower,
514 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
Without a melancholic wondering Why we pick buds not leaving them to flower.
The loveborn softness of its petals warm, Its dawn-enfolded baby coloring, It breathes again; I hold within my arm My precious rosebud of a former spring.
I know now why God takes the infant buds From out the arms of Mothers in the Spring, It is a mortal and immortal dream To pluck and hold the only perfect thing.
In the sketch, you will note that Mrs. Boyer has lost one of her children. Her poem "Boys' Day" as also "Buds" reveals much of the mother heart and interest in children that was manifest in the poem she read at the April Conference.
Boys' Day
I plucked a perfect rose bud in the spring, Symbol of one who died in infancy; I started with it toward his tiny grave Thinking how Life had made its mock of me.
For it had robbed me of my only son, And left me gaping before empty years; So I went blindly on in graying grief, Seeing the world through mists of unshed tears.
I took the bud in trembling memory, And through the streets my way I slowly made; A gruff policeman pushed me back apace, "We're roping off here for the Boys' Parade."
And then I looked around and saw the lads, Bright eager boys the age my son would be; I looked into their burning eyes and lo! My own Lad's youthful soul communed with me.
One boy looked proudly up into my face And then glanced shyly at the rose I held, I swallowed hard, but stooping, slipped the bud Into the happy youngster's coat lapel.
His eyes shone and he doffed his cap to me, Embarrassed, but with grace the gesture made, The tiny grave would never miss the bud— And I stayed on to see the Boys' Parade.
Mrs. Boyer's husband was one of the men who was sent over seas. It would be strange if the World War and particularly the condition in which she found herself separated from her young husband, did not lead her to write some things in relation to the
GUIDE LESSONS FOR NOVEMBER 515
War. In addition, Mrs. Boyer has given us some of the very best Christmas poems that we have published in the magazine. We are happy, because it is characteristic of her writings, to include as her last poem in this lesson—
"Frankincense, Spices, and Myrrh"
He sat at the door of his Belgian home Re-made from the War's debris, And he thought of the Christ in the manger born And the Christ on Calvary; He thought of the nails in the Savior's hands, And his war-racked memory Saw his own blown off by a hand-grenade For the love of his own country; He thought of the eyes of the dying Christ As He uttered, "Lord Forgive," And he thought of his own burned out by the men Who had dared him to laugh and live.
Within the house lay his wife and babe— A son he had heard them say— And he sought the bed with a heart-sick soul And he knelt on the floor to pray; "Of all the joys stored up above Thou hast given the greatest to me. So God accept the life of a man Who can neither touch nor see; Let me die of joy at Thy great reward Ere my own son's pitying glance Fall upon him whose eyes and hands He gave to help save France."
They carried him out to the open door And bade him rest nor think; They brought his book and read to him, They brought him food and drink. He sat at the door of his Belgian home Like one whose mind is gone But he listened to those who moved about And his lips kept murmuring on— "Oh God let me lie where I long to lie— Neath the soil of my native land; And let him, my son, grow up to see The Peace of the World at hand."
It was Christmas eve and three great men Had met at a gay chateau, They had traveled far but their rendezvous Was not for the World to know.
516 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
They had knitted brows and they wore with grace The scientific mien, They carried gifts in their skillful hands, Great gifts that were quite unseen.
"We have the joy of discovery," One said: "We have the power, And if God will we shall prove to Him We need but the man and the hour."
The Belgian sat at his cabin door Long after the sun had set, And the stars were hid and the night was dark For the fog was thick and wet; But there came a light through the muggy night, And he felt its piercing ray, Some steps he heard and a human voice,— Three journeymen on their way.
A word and a thought and a prayer to Him And the Wise Men bowed them low And began the task that their hearts had dreamed And that only their minds could know.
A year and a day they worked away With a joy that none could see, As they thought of the Christ in a manger born And the Christ on Calvary. And one of them made a pair of hands, And one of them grafted eyes, The third restored his memory, For the three were skilled and wise.
And the man who had prayed That he might be laid Neath his harried country's sod, Bowed his head at the gifts that the Wise Men gave And wept before his God. And the three who had plead that they might be led To this newer Bethlehem, Gave thanks to the Lord of All the World For the star that had guided them—
It was Christmas day when they stole away, And they left a happy three: A mother, a babe in a cabin born, And a man who could touch and see. Unknown they had come, their service done To "one of the least of these"— Night of the Christ Child once again, Once more the gift of Peace.
GUIDE LESSONS FOR NOVEMBER 517
QUESTIONS AND PROBLEMS
Elsie Chamberlain Carroll
1. Do you think it natural for one born in the peaceful vales of Utah to experience a mood such as Mrs. Carroll voices in her poem "A Mood?" If you have had experiences somewhat similar, relate them.
2. Do you recall among your friends persons whose attachment began in childhood and finally resulted in marriage?
3. Underline in Mrs. Carroll's nature poems a group of words that you think are particularly apt.
4. Select from her poems in this lesson the two that you like the best.
5. Do you hold the same opinion that Mrs. Carroll expresses in relation to the modern girl, or is your idea different? If so, why?
Claire Stewart Boyer
1. What are the two different pictures presented by the two writers in their war poems?
2. Where in her poems has Mrs. Boyer made reference to the loss of her child?
3. Do you think that giving a rose to the living was a more practical thing than carrying it to her baby's grave? Which do you think would really do the mother the most good?
4. Which poem is devoted to one of our mountain birds? Does it coincide with your experience with the bird?
5. What details relating to Mrs. Boyer's early life lead us to discover the care with which her father and mother reared their children?
LESSON IV Social Service (Fourth Week in November)
THE CHILD STUDY COURSE
Lesson 8. (a) Bridging the Gap Between Our Knowledge of Child Well-Being and Our Care of the Young, and the (b) Relation of Nutrition to Mental Development.
We now enter upon a new phase of our study of the child, his nature and his needs. Up to this point (part one of the text) we have been concerned with the fundamental principles of child nature—the laws of psychology, character development, learning, etc. From now on (part two), however, we are going to examine the principles of child-care as they are illustrated in our knowledge of such things as nutrition, mental development, mental hygiene,
518 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
delinquency, adolescence, care of intellectually inferior and superior children, etc. (We are making one lesson out of two chapters for the reason that Chapter VIII, Bridging the Gap Between Our Knowledge of Child Well-Being and Our Care of the Young, is largely a summary of the seven chapters which follow it. The valuable parts of the chapter will be discussed in subsequent lessons. For this reason, the reader might very well omit it.)
A. Bridging the Gap. This excellent statement (Chapter VIII) of the fact that society knows a lot more about children than its members put into practice, is made by Dr. H. H. Goddard, a very able authority on feeble-mindedness and delinquency. It was he, by the way, who first adapted the now-famous Binet-Simon intelligence tests to American conditions. He is now professor of psychology at Ohio State University. He makes three important points to which we should like to call the reader's attention.
1. "The gap between our knowledge of child well-being and our actual care of the child is enormous." The author argues that if the care of youth were "efficient and intelligent," society would be getting an increasingly stronger grip on such chronic social ills as juvenile delinquency, crime, insanity, etc., while as a matter of fact, conditions in this respect are getting worse. It might very well be objected, however, that social conditions are not so black as Dr. Goddard paints them, and even if they are, the situation is not due solely to society's inability to rear its children according to scientific principles. It is very probable that many of our social ills are also due to defects inherent in the social order.
2. His second point is that notwithstanding our elaborate knowledge of individual differences, we still act as though people are fundamentally alike. It is interesting as well as surprising to note that one must either get into the hands of a physician, a lawyer or a social worker before his "case" or his "problem" is individualized! Teachers and parents, speaking generally, have neither a technique nor a philosophy for dealing with children individually. When parents and teachers do individualize children—and many do—it is usually by rule of thumb methods. One of the most imperative needs in education is for a scientific procedure for individualizing normal children in the home and in the school.
3. Dr. Goddard's biggest and best-stated point is that the child is endowed by nature with certain strong impulses which must be socialized by habit-training. "In the modern world," he says, "we live close together and in a cooperative society. We have divided up the work of life, so that we are each dependent
GUIDE LESSONS FOR NOVEMBER 519
upon all the rest. Under these conditions, the instinct to hoard and accumulate becomes stealing. The instinct to deceive becomes lying, and unlimited sex activity becomes immorality."
Questions
1. Discuss the relative merits of the following frequently-quoted aims of public-school education: the acquisition of skill, the acquisition of information, the development of character, the development of wholesome personality, preparation for vocation.
2. Assuming the fact, why is there such a wide gap between what we know and what we do about child care? Consider, for example, how little we do to prevent the spread of scarlet fever, to keep children from being hurt or killed by automobile, etc.
3. What special provisions, if any, do your local schools make for (a) superior children, (b) mentally defective children, (c) children with a special talent or disability? To what extent is religious education in your community (e. g., Sunday School, Primary or Religion Class) influenced by the fact of individual differences?
B. Relation of Nutrition to Mental Development. Dr. Emerson, professor of children's diseases at Tufts Medical College, Boston, has given us in Chapter IX a nice, simple statement of the bearing of nutrition on the child's mental development. He states clearly and with emphasis the outstanding fact in this relationship, namely, that mental development accompanies physical development; that mental backwardness goes hand in hand with physical backwardness. There is no one fact in the entire science of child development quite so well established as this. In a recent study of several hundred gifted children by Professor Lewis M. Terman of Stanford University, this principle is again corroborated. The causes of malnutrition as Dr. Emerson sets them forth, are not "lack of food" as many parents have supposed, but a complex of factors calling for expertness in diagnosis and treatment. It will be very striking to many persons of the "new" as well as the "old" schools of child care to hear the child specialist say: "We can discover which of the causes of malnutrition are operating in any given case only by complete social, physical growth, and mental examinations. Each of the three is essential." The mental aspect of nutrition is so important, yet so rarely recognized, that we are including here a few excerpts from a chapter on "Learning to Eat," from Blanton and Blanton's recent book, Child Guidance (Century, 1927). On the perplexing subject of thumb-sucking, for instance, we read: "Since thumb and finger-sucking must be considered as an
520 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
indication of the appetite or the state of metabolism of the child, mechanical restraint such as elbow cuffs or aluminum mitts, or pinning the sleeve to the bed, should not be employed. The remedy lies in diet and sunshine.
"In nearly all infants and young children there is a tendency to suck the fingers or thumb when sleepy. This, one can afford to ignore, unless it is carried beyond the third year. It is a normal infantile form of gratification." On the subject of the child's refusing food in order to gain attention, we have the following explanation: "Often, when the appetite is poor or the child has been unwell, he has to be coaxed, petted, cajoled and urged to continue his feeding in order to empty the bottle or breast. As a result he develops a method, perhaps subconsciously, whereby he gets attention by refusing his food; and unless he is very hungry, he is apt to resort to this procedure to get this attention." The infant must not only learn to eat, but must learn how to eat with others, in the approved fashion. To parents with problems of this sort, the Blantons say: "To require children to sit with adults and accept the adults' rate of eating; to watch the adult dally over a special food which to him is delectable; to sit through the conversation of parents often without saying anything or getting any attention, is destructive of good discipline.
"Women who do their own housework often do not realize that it is actually more convenient to feed children before the family sits down to the table. A small table for the children can be arranged in the kitchen, and a little festival made of the meal." And finally: "The child's meal hour should not be looked on as an opportunity for a lesson in eating only. The mother should take this occasion to demonstrate to the child—by example, not by precept—some of the social graces requiring tact and skill. At least one meal a day should be made a "party" with the child specially cleaned and dressed and on his best behavior."
Questions
1. What are some of the mental or behavior characteristics of malnourished infants and children?
2. What are the five chief causes of malnutrition, according to Dr. Emerson?
3. What is a "nutrition class"? Are there any such in your community?
4. Just how much malnutrition is there among the school children in your community?
5. What is the general nature of the health work in the public schools of your community? Is it adequate? Does it include any mental hygiene?
— "PICKLING SEASON" It will soon be time for putting up pickles. It is every woman's ambition to put up better pickles than her neighbor, and almost every woman, some time in her life, has been induced to take 'something just as good' in the way of pickling spices and vinegar. As a result, she has lost her pickles. If you will use SCOWCROFT'S Biue Prine Grounp Mustarp in making your mustard pickles, and BLUE Prine WHOLE Spices in your pickling with BLuE Pine Bottle VINEGAR, we will guarantee that you will not lose your pickles. Ask your grocer for and insist on SCOWCROFT'S Blue PINE Mustard, WHOLE PICKLING SPICES AND VINEGAR. ORD John Scowcroft & Sons Co. A, THE BRICK MAN Says: Brick homes Undoubtedly Inspire their owners with L asting and genuine D elight and W in the deep Interest of others T hrough the H armonious atmosphere surrounding them. B eautiful brick homes R eflect the spirit of hospitality that I nvites acquaintances and forms the C ontact that K indles the flame of friendship. The Salt Lake Pressed Brick Co. 319 Kearns Bldg. Salt Lake City, Utah Phones: Was. 950—Was. 951 \: When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine —_ W d R ° in every city for beautiful line ot II ladies and children. Entire line is made in Salt Lake City. Fall Hne now ready. Exceptional opportunity as representatives elsewhere are making $6.00 to $8.00 per day. Reorders assure constant income. Write immediately to HERMOINE TAILORED FROCKS, 310 Dooly Bldg., Salt L Lake City. ——4 Special Sunday Bricks and Neopolltan Bricks 25¢ pt., S ie 50e at. Call Your Extra packed in ice. J ICECREAM = JhY cls CANDY: CAKE pelset fe ) i ~ Temple and Burial Clothes KEEP UP WITH YOUR COMPLETE SUITS FOR MEN DAUGHTERS AND WOMEN Sisters Read some of the modern books and see things through the eyes of the children. Variety of Grades and Prices Prompt and Careful Attention To Mail—Telephone—Telegraph Orders. Open Daily, 9 a. M.—5 p. M. General Board Deseret Book Relief Society Company Ask us for suggestions. Phone Wasatch 3286 P. O. Box 1793 Salt Lake City, Utah S xr KG y HALL'S CANKER MEDICINE If you want to prevent canker or sore throat, use Hall's Canker Medicine. If any of your children have canker or sore throat, give them Hall's Canker Medicine. ' This wonderful medicine is sold by all Druggists. In Buying Canker Medicine Don't Forget to Ask For HALL'S CANKER MEDICINE. 4, ( When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine ante PU NCH E 29 Bishops' Building, fc epresentatives—taitorea dresses, smocks and aprons for tH| Keeley's Dealer. Salt Lake City, Utah >) Fill Your Bin With King and Panther In a short time, the railroads will be intensely busy rushing shipments of sugar beets, grains, and other farm crops. There will be a shortage of Railroad cars, and coal will be delayed at the mine. The wisest thing to do is to store King & Panther NOW! Now we can supply you with King—the hardest, longest-lasting, hottest coal on the market and Panther the greatest free-burning coal in the West. Solid Fuel Value in every Lump. Mined exclusively by the United States Fuel Company LARGEST PRODUCERS OF COAL IN UTAH General Offices Newhouse Bldg., Salt Lake City J 'The Spirit Giveth Life" SO SAID PAUL THE APOSTLE-PHILOSOPHER No better evidence of the truth of the Sage's remark could be found than a study of the students who have come under the influence of the Spirit of Brigham Young University. They have gone by the scores into the high places where they have performed great services for the world. TO B.Y. U. TRAINED IS TO BE SOUGHT AFTER In all of the fields of human activity where a high quality of efficient service is demanded. THE FIFTY-FOURTH YEAR BEGINS SEPTEMBER 17 "Training For Leadership" Brigham Young University PROVO, UTAH When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine Seven Times Champion of the World Sent to you on Free Trial For Sale by Utah Power & Light Co. And Eureka Vacuum Cleaner Co. 111 E, 2nd So. St., Salt Lake City Ne 4 BENNETT GLASS & PAINT COMPANY This is "Roofs and Fences" month in the year-round painting program September for Bennett's "Property Life Insurance" Products. Your dealer has them  THE LEADERS IN OUR LINE Every O. P. Skaggs Store of each town is the undisputed leader in maintaining the highest degree of sanitation, in stocking the largest assortment of quality foods, in ability to handle the largest, busy day crowds pleasingly, and in maintaining the lowest possible prices. If you happen to be a buyer who for any reason has not yet learned oO Pp SKAG GS of the advantages of an O. P.- Skaggs one Br eranaraera oo ie ial - once. I CER SCPUICE J. Our findings will mean much to you FOOD System STORES 214  When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine RELIEF SOCIETY LARK UTAH  Being the product of the world's largest washer manufacturers, the Maytag enjoys advantages denied other washers —the advantages of large production and vast resources— advantages which make the highest-grade materials and workmanship cost less per unit. Think of the difference between the ordinary wash-day action wash the grimiest clothes clean, without hand-hubbing., The Roller Water Remover, lower roll, wrings everything Telephone for a Maytag before next Deferred Payments Yow'll Never are yours only where you choose a Maytag. C7 Aluminum "Washer Th e Maytag Intermountain Co. Distributors When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine A pies. Life! Electricity, the eae My ot FREE Home Washing washday. Use it, test it, compare It. If it doesn't sell itself, don't Keep it. Vis. 211 South State and the Maytag wash-hour. The seamless, cast-aluminum, heatretaining tub and the gyrafoam with a soft top roll and a hard evenly dry and spares the buttons. A score of such features originated by the Maytag Company are yours only where you choose Maytag. SALT LAKE CITY October APR  Ask Your Dealer for Z. C. M. I. Factory-Made CHILDREN'S ALLOVERS SS Khaki and WhiteKhaki and Peggy Backed Denim for Clothes, Dutch Kut Boys For Girls The Famous MOUNTAINEER OVERALLS Give Splendid Satisfaction NEW and FAST Gyrator Washer The valuable experience that has been gained by 15 years of manufacturing motor-driven household appliances is built into this splendid APEX WG-10 Washer. The washing principle is safe and fast— the mechanical working is simple and sturdy—the appearance is very attractive. The APEX makes good with the woman who buys one—It combines in its make-up: QUALITY PERFORMANCE DURABILITY Inter-Mountain Electric Company 43-69 East 4th So. Phone Was. 354 When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine FALL and WINTER GARMENTS OF APPROVED L. D. S. STYLES Selected from our extensive line of L. D. S. Garments we suggest the following numbers of fall and winter wear: Our best med, winter No... No. 83—Ribbed med. Wet. CotNo. 8—Ribbed heavy wet. Our 50% wool number No. 9—Ribbed med. Weight, Wool and cotton. Our Hight weight winter number No. 10—-100% pure worsted wool, med. Wget. The ideal garment for those who want all wool son number No. 4—Ribbed heavy wet., unbleached cot. Our double back number No. 5—Part wool, ribbed unbleached. Our best selling wool number In ordering, be sure to specify whether old or new style garments,. Three quarter or ankle length legs, short or long sleeves are wanted. Also give bust measure, height and weight to insure perfect fit, Postage prepaid, ORDER BY MAIL OR CALL AT STORE THD ORIGINAL UTAH WOOLEN MILLS Briant Stringham, Manager 4 Block South of Temple Gate 28 Richards Street Utah Beet Sugar IN YOUR CANNING ON YOUR TABLE 100% PURE—100% FINE Boost and Buy Local Products — When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine No. 1—Ribbed lgt. Wst. Cotton with rayon silk stripe. An excellent ladies' number....$1.25 No. 2—Ribbed lgt. Wet. Cotton our standard summer west. 1.25 ton, bleached. Our all seai \ No. 6—High grade rayon tricosham silk. For particular people No. 7—Pure worsted wool with silkine merc. Cotton. Unbleached cot. And wool.  L. D. S. G Good grade, and well made. Style, and if for man or lady. Postage prepaid. Sample on request. 142 Flat Weave, Lt. Weight.... GARMENTS When ordering, state Size, New or Old 264 Rayon Silk 33.50 208 Carded Cotton, Med. Lt...... 1.45 32 Combed Cotton, Light Wt.. 1.50 222 Cotton, Rayon Stripes........ 1.65 258 Double Card. Cot., Med. Wt. 1.95 628 Merc. Lisle, Light Wet......... 250 108 Unbleached Cot., Med. Wt... 1.88 L 142 WEST SOUTH TEMPLE ST. BARTON & GO. Established in Utah 45 Yeurs 217 Fine Lisle, Rayon Stripe.... 2.25 748 Unbleached Cot., Hvy. Wt... 2.00 754 Bleached Cot., Hvy. Wt..... 2.25 908 Unbleached Cot., Ex. Hvy. 2.75 1072 Mixed Wool and Cotton.......4.00 Salt Lake City, Utah 4 » Temple and Burial Clothes COMPLETE SUITS FOR MEN AND WOMEN Variety of Grades and Prices. Prompt and Careful Attention To Mail—Telephone—Telegraph Orders Open Daily, 9 a.m.—5 p.m. GENERAL BOARD RELIEF SOCIETY Phone Wasatch 3286 29 Bishop's Building Salt Lake City, Utah SEND FOR HANDY BREEDER'S CHART PERFECT FOR CATTLE-HOGS-SHEEP ta the original of the most widely used and approved identification mark known. IT'S DOUBLE HOLE LOCK SAM PLES Easily clamped on in one operation and IT STAYS PUT SALTLAKESTAMP CO,' Set Withou! Obligation to me, pleese svcd FREE Samples ef PEAFECT EAR TAGS and Price List. Nome Address fr L. D. 8S. GARMENTS Direct From Factory You ure guaranteed unusual wear and satisfaction from Cutler Gurdn ordering garments please or new Styles are wanted. Lime we allow you a 15% discount on the third pair. Marking 15c. H.G. Cutler’s 137-8 Const. Bldg 34 So Main Garments Long Wearing Clothes When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine They are made from the best loag wearing, two combed yarns. No. 76 Ribbed lt. Wt. Lisle.... 1.35 No. 27 Ribbed Med. Wt. 50% No. 64 Ribbed Med. It. Cot. 1.35 Wool 3.35 Ea 5 No. 37 Ribbed Med. Wt. 60% 8 oz, Heavy Duek............$1.75 WRIGHT'S UNDERWEAR DUOFOLD UNDERWEAR 100% Wool, Salmon or Natural 100% Wool outside, Cotton in- ' Color $5.35 side. Natural Color..................$4.85 Also give bust, height and weight. SPECIAL—When you order three pair of garments or hose at one discount on the third pair. Cautier' 237-8 Const. Bidg. (Se) 34SoMain GARMEN'TS LONG WEARING CLOTHES state if for men or women and if old Marking 16c. Eats When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine 9 No. 68 Ribbed ex, light Cotton Knee length................ No. 68 Old style or new style % or long legs............85 No. 74 Ribbed light wt. Cot..... 1.10 No. 84 Rib, Mercerized Lisle.... 1.85 No. 62 Heo oa Med. WHITE TEMPLE PANTS makes it decidedly superior to all imitations. No, 61 Ribbed Med. Hvy. Unbleached Double Back.. 1.70 No. 56 Ribbed Hvy. Cotton bleached  2.15 No. 55 Ribbed Hvy. Cot. Unbleached Double Back 2.15 Hvy. 2 No. 39 oe Hvy. Wt. 50% aa Wool and Silk Stripe... 4.65 fr Ask for one of our folders describing the different services we offer.  Hyland 190 Distinctive Work Office 319 S, Main St. Beautiful Flowers For your home this winter; and your garden next spring. ARE EASY TO GROW NOW IS THE TIME TO PLANT Write today for our Free Catalog. It tells what, when and how. The largest and most complete stock of Bulbs, rich, creamy bers It's a hie, every time, and the prize ls health. Porter -Walton Co. Salt Lake We should'a drunk more milk when we wuz, kids 159 W. Lst So. Was. 2177 — SACRAMENT SETS RECOMMENDED. BY PATRONS. REFERENCES FURNISHED NOW IN STOCK Made especially for L. D. S. Tons Churches, and successfully used in Utah and intermountain region, also in all Missions in the United States, Europe, and Pacific Islands. Basic metal, Nickle Silver, heavily plated with Solid Silver. SIMPLE, SANITARY, DURABLE Satisfaction guaranteed Inquiries cheerfully answered Bureau of Information Temple Block Salt Lake City —When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine mountain states for your selection. Seed and Nursery Specialists —— INDIVIDUAL YOUNG SAMSON knows what he's aiming at—a bottle of our CLOVER LEAF DAIRY CONTENTS Augusta Winters Grant… Frontispiece Autumn brooks Kiarnn 523 Thy L.D. S. Missionaries in Japan......524, 550 One of Japan's Beauty Spots. F. S. Harris 525 An Allegory........... Merling D. Clyde 530 The Japanese Theatre............. Elbert D. Thomas 531 Editorial—Japan....41 Japan Woman at the PanPacific Conference........ 542 Captan Roald Amundsen......... 542 Horse Racing Discontinued......... 543 A Weird Hush of Beauty.... Glen Perrins 544 The Flowery Kingdom. Henry F. Kirkham 545 Pioneers........Lais V. Hales 551 Susan T. Jennings 553 Notes from the Field.. Amy Brown Lyman 554 Mardula...........--Josephine Spencer 558 Compensation........ Ethel Allen Kilgore 559 Guide Lessons for December— Theology and Testimony.......... 561 Work and Business....... 562 Literature  Organ of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints Room 20 Bishop's Bldg. Salt Lake City, Utah $1.00 a Year—Single Copy, 10c Foreign, $1.25 a Year—15c Single Copy Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah Phone Wasatch 3123 VOL. XV OCTOBER, 1928 NO. AUGUSTA WINTERS GRANT Wife of President Heber J. Grant, who accompanied her husband to Japan while he was presiding over the Japanese Mission. Sister Grant was set apart for the Japanese Mission June 26, 1902. She returned home September 18, 1903. Autumn By Brooks Kairn Old gold—the autumn floor—and overhead Clear turquoise blends in mellow harmony, Subdued, the stream that curves in sparkling play Through graceful willows onward to its sea; Restrained, the breeze, carressing leafing boughs Of trees that in the springtime flaunted greens, Elf-toned, the woodland songster's fluted note Hints plaintively of cold and harsher scenes; But wild and quaintly free a gypsy trail Leads recklessly to strange secluded nooks With pledge of sights and thrills that ne'er have been Incorporated into story books. Hushed now the fragrant glen and wooded slope As Sol in splendor leaves his western throne. Forlorn the graying nests of feathered ones 'Who now to distant southern climes have flown; Resigned the sleeping loam to what must come Of bitter frost and downward crushing flakes, Full gaunt this paradise of burnished tints Must be when ranting Boreas overtakes; Alone, all unaffected by the blight That strips his brethren of their regal dress, The tall and stalwart pine lives on serene, Aloof to autumn's melancholyness. The four missionaries who opened the Latter-day Saints Mission in Japan, including President Heber J. Grant who was president of the The other person in the group is the Japanese photogJapanese Mission. Rapher. The other three missionaries in the photograph are Louis A. Kelch, Alma O. Taylor and Horace S. Ensign. THE Relief Society Magazine VoL. XV OCTOBER, 1928 No. 10 One of Japan's Beauty Spots By F. S. Harris, President of Brigham Young University _ Japan has so many places of beauty and charm that it seems a little presumptuous to single out any of these and say that they are more beautifil than the others. However, someone has been bold enough to select three sections which are designated as Japan's scenic trio. There is Matsushima on the northeastern coast, Amanohashi Tate on the west coast, and Miyajima on the south along the Inland Sea. It is to the latter that I should like to take you. Traveling westward from the great cities of Osaka and Kobe which are at the east end of the Inland Sea we pass for several hours along the coast through wonderful fields of rice interspersed with patches of soy beans and little clumps of dwarf mulberries, the leaves of which are used as food for silk worms. There are
526 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
some other crops, but rice paddies occupy most of the farm land. These rice fields are covered with water which comes from the numberless clear streams as they descend from the heavily timbered hills and mountains to the north. We might pause and note the many points of interest on these small farms and the activities of the entire family who are helping to get a living from the land. We would be interested in the straw-roofed houses, in the fantastic scare crows or the bells constantly being rung by water wheels to keep the birds out of the ripening rice, or in the dress of the people. But we must get on to our destination.
On leaving the train we are tempted to loiter in the small town to explore curious shops and watch the activities of the interesting people. We resist, and pass on to the ferry landing two blocks away. Here we find a motor boat ready to take us to the island which is the real spot of beauty and the location of the famous Itsukushima Shrine. As the boat moves through the clear water of the Inland Sea, we are surprised to see millions of jelly fishes floating lazily about. Schools of fishes of various kinds dart across our path and we understand how the hundreds of fishing-boats with picturesque sails which are within our view on the sea are able to find profit in catching fish. As our boat takes us near the island, we are charmed by the beautiful pines, gnarled and twisted, which project out over the water. The island is in reality a mountain heavily timbered and containing many shady glens and crystalline streams which tumble down over the granite rocks to the Inland Sea which surrounds it.
ONE OF JAPAN'S BEAUTY SPOTS 527
On landing, we are met by a group of energetic hotel porters, who separate our baggage into as many parcels as possible so that more of them can do something to call for a tip. Besides those who carry baggage there is a guide who leads along the trail to the hotel which nestles among the pines in the background. Since we come at a season when there are not many travelers, the hotel is almost empty, and as a result the entire force of domestics swarm around us. We do not mind having service, but there is a limit of tips we are willing to pay.
After being settled in the hotel, we are anxious to see more of the beauties of which we have had a glimpse. Miyajima has so many little nooks that are beautiful and so many enchanting spots that we do not know which way to turn. We feel a good deal like the boy at his first three-ringed circus. He tried to look at all three rings at once and got very much confused. The giant torii out in the water and the sacred deer which are along the water's edge and in the various paths, the great old Buddhist temple, the sacred horse, the graceful boats in the bay, the interesting little Japanese women with bright colored dresses and beautiful parasols, the old gnarled pine trees with props holding up their tired, outstretched limbs, the ancient bronze statues, all vie with one another to get our attention. We decide, however, that the only way to see these things is to take them one at a time.
Accordingly, we enter the famous Itsukushima Shrine. It is supposed to have been established in the year 593, A. D. In 1146 the temples were extended and enlarged and the beauty of the buildings increased. In 1270 many
528 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
of the buildings were destroyed by fire but were rebuilt soon after. The structures of the shrine are said to represent one of the rarest types of architecture known to the world. The shrine is built over the sea and is connected with the land by winding corridors of bridges between which are many halls. The architectural design, indeed, is said by the Japanese to be a heaven-imagined fantasy. The impression is enhanced by the sight of the blue water of the sea in front, the green mountains behind, and the colorful vermillions with which the structures themselves are painted, the ensemble forming a striking combination of views. The charm of the place is enhanced by the beautiful, spotted deer which one sees moving about under the building and around through various parts of the structure. In one of the main buildings, there is the senjokakau, or "the house of a thousand lamps." This huge hall was constructed in 1582, A. D. Near it is a five storied pagoda. A number of historical documents are kept in the archives of the shrine, among which thirty-three rolls of Buddha scripture, or sutra, dedicated to the shrine by the Taria family, stand out conspicuously. In a little room on one side of the shrine is the sacred horse. It looks a good deal like one of our western ponies. It is supposed to be pure white, although in reality it is no whiter than a good many horses we see about the country. It spends all its life in this little enclosure, and is fed grain by people who pass. With coppers they purchase little packages of oats which contain only a few thimbles full of the grain, which they throw into a stone trough. The horse seems very restless, and stamps around a good deal. It was rather difficult for me to make up my mind that it
ONE OF JAPAN'S BEAUTY SPOTS 529
should not be out in the open country enjoying a good run rather than being confined in its "sacred" home.
The hundreds of stone lanterns which line the thoroughfares have a religious significance; the bronze images of the gods and demons which one sees by the way all have a connection with the worship of the people. A climb up a trail through the dense timber to the mountain top where one can overlook the entire country, a boat-ride around the island which is about five miles in circumference, helped to complete our idea of this wonderful beauty spot. It seems impossible in words to describe the charm of the place. High rainfall has made a very luxuriant vegetation; this, with the granite rock which preserves the water in its clear condition, insures many beautiful crystalline streams, small waterfalls, and a freshness to the whole place which makes a person understand why it should have been selected so long ago as a place in which to build a temple.
530 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
The combination of verdure-clad sea shores, of sparkling streams, of little nooks filled with attractive buildings, and the interesting people having charming ways, all make up a setting that is most impressive. After visiting this beauty spot, a person cannot help but feel impressed with the fact that we, in our own land, have many opportunities to take advantage of what Nature has done for us, and ourselves build up many attractive places that would add interest to our lives and give a more favorable impression to all those who pass our way.
An Allegory By Merling D. Clyde
For an all-wise plan the great Creator Breathed into a fragrant bud a human soul, Shrouded in its compass warmth and goodness Closing 'round a heart of purest gold.
Through the years it grew—developed— Shed its grace on others touching near, As the petals soft unfolded in perfection With a wealth of radiating cheer.
In a garden of love the flower—transplanted— Matured, unblemished, in the sun, Sending shoots to perpetuate its own creation Till the Master Gardener said: "Thy work is done."
At its pinnacle of gracious beauty Came the Reaper's gently stealing hand, Plucked that upright rose from out its loving comrades— A destiny fulfilled as God had planned.
Took the flower, but left its sacred sweetness Lingering, hallowed, on the quiet air, So that they who walk the pathways feel its presence, Inviolable to all who loved it there.
Shall we say too soon the stem is broken— Though we'll miss it from its place each lonely day— Or, inspired to emulate its perfect blooming, Feel that by its holy life we'll see the way?
The Japanese Theatre By Mrs. Elbert D. Thomas
A word by way of explanation is due you before I begin. It is thirteen years since our return from Japan and things may be different now. Also I am not, and never have been, a student of the drama in any land. In my youth I indulged in amateur acting, thus forever disqualifying myself from serious, disinterested study of the stage. During my travels I have always been interested in things connected with the ancient and modern theater. It has been my good fortune to have seen much; but it has been my bad fortune to have been so ill-prepared with proper background in history and in literature that I couldn't fully appreciate many of the things that I did see. For me the playhouse has always been a place of entertainment, and not study. I enjoy nearly everything I see, from a Mack Sennett Comedy up or down.
We were in Japan during a period of mighty transition. Most things in respect to Japanese culture and life were in a condition of flux. The great wave towards the Europeanization of everything had passed and Japan had settled back to an appreciation of her own; but at the same time, she could not avoid European influences. The Imperial Theater, which was destroyed by the earthquake and fire of 1922 was conceived, built, dedicated, and in constant use for two full years during our stay in that country. When viewed from the standpoint of the stage itself--this theater was probably the greatest one ever built. It had in it the best that the West has been able to evolve; in addition to that, it retained such features from the oriental playhouse as the revolving stage the hanamichi (the runway which extends from the stage to the audience), that great adjunct to the stage proper, which permits the action of the play to assume in a sense, an extra direction. To make this clear let me call your attention to the fact that the European stage permits of a right, a left, a back, and an up and down direction. But the footlights bar a forward direction. You will remember when William Gillette played Sherlock Holmes, that he used what was then a novel bit of new business, by coming in a darkened room down to the front of the stage and describing for you, the imaginary wall and the one window which he tells you is there. That gives the extra direction, which the Western stage may suggest but which the Eastern stage has. I'm not unmindful of the fact that entrances were permitted from the front in Shakespeare's time and in the pre-Shakespearian period, also that our modern musical comedies and girl plays use
532 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
the platform extending into the audience to splendid, and, especially in our girl plays, enjoyable effects. But never had we learned to use the hanamichi as it has been developed in Japan. I doubt whether we have ever had such an example of the meeting of two highly developed cultures—cultures, too, that have developed the striking contrasts that were found and made to harmonize in the Imperial Theater. East and West met there, without a clash; and the art of neither culture was sacrificed. A striking example: In the Japanese theater the audience sits on the floor; in the European, on seats. How could both
THE IMPERIAL THEATRE
customs be respected? The Japanese accomplished this by filling their auditorium with what seemed to be Western opera chairs, but each chair had an adjustable bottom, which, when pulled out, made a serviceable futon (cushioned) seat wide enough to allow the Japanese to sit in their regular style on their feet. Often I have seen a Japanese gentleman in foreign dress letting his hips hang on a chair (to use the Japanese expression to describe our manner of sitting) sitting beside his lady companion, dressed in kimono, and able to enjoy the play at her accustomed ease, for you must remember that sitting on a chair is as tiring to a Japanese as sitting on our legs is tiring to us.
THE JAPANESE THEATRE 533
In numbers of other ways the Eastern and the Western stage met and mingled in the Imperial Theatre. In the same performance one might enjoy a scene from Shakespeare in translation, acted very well, or an American or European society drama, or a comedy of manners, played and staged as we would do in our country, along with a No (classic) or Jidai-mono (Japanese historical play). When Western plays were produced, the orchestra, playing Western tunes and wearing full dress clothes, performed in the pit as it does in our plays. When the Japanese plays were produced, the orchestra was on the stage, dressed in Japanese clothes and performing on Japanese instruments. There was a splendid co-mingling in the restaurants and the drinking rooms of the theater, where one could buy beef-steak or pork chop and eat them with either knives and forks or a Japanese bento (consisting of cold compressed rice, raw fish, smelly pickles) with chop sticks. (Wooden chop sticks, always accompanied by toothpicks, are furnished with each lunch bought.) I shall not describe the co-mingling of drinks or drinkers. It has been assumed by all writers, I think, that that has been a common practice since even before the days that Henry Hudson is said to have traded a barrel of whiskey for half of Manhattan.
Let us turn to the real Japanese plays. To understand properly anything Japanese, one must realize the fact that the Japanese civilization in one sense is very primitive in that it retains many features that are found only among peoples who have developed on the fringes of great world cultures. At the same time Japan has had cultural contacts with the world's mightiest civilizations—the Chinese, the Hindu, the European. From all these, Japan has taken much, so much that many thoughtless writers have said that the Japanese are not creators but imitators, a statement which must be condemned; for the Japanese have contributed much to the culture of the world. When they adopt something from other lands, they invariably Japanize it. This has been so generally done that we must use the adjective Japanese when we speak of Buddhism or Confucianism, or Christianity; as Japanese Buddhism, Japanese Confucianism, or Japanese Christianity. A description of the Japanese drama must therefore include a description of their primitive mask and pantomime plays, as well as the highly developed modern drama. In other words one may see in Japan today practically every type of theatrical performance that the various world's civilizations have produced; for Japanese culture retains the extremely primitive as it accepts the ultra modern.
First for a description of the primitive. We find in Japan, even to this day, the wandering street theatrical troops. They
534 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
THE DRAMATIC ART OF THE GARDENER
carry on much as similar actors do in China. They set their stages up in the street or in the Temple yard. Often they are part of a wandering group of bazaar merchants. They are used, of course, to attract the crowds, while the merchants sell their wares. The plays put on by these people are generally mask dances and pantomimes. Their themes are often the themes of similar Chinese plays, that is—the conflict with the Barbarian. (The foreigner is always pictured as a man with red hair and a green mask. Why, I cannot tell.) These plays are also taken from Buddhist folk and devil-lore. The stories tell what happens to one who is pursued by a Buddhist green or red devil. The Japanese inari, or fox-bewitching stories, are also pictured in these simple plays. For in Japan, you know, when the Evil spirits or the goblins get you, you become possessed by a fox. Sometimes in these pantomimes, actions may be vulgar, but the Japanese poetry and drama and even low comedy are free from the lewd, suggestive, or obscene. Japanese language does not lend itself to oaths, or to swearing; and Japanese inclination is never towards the vulgar. Japanese life is so open that there is no need of the suggestive.
Closely allied to the street and temple plays would be the various kinds of matsuri (festival entertainments). These matsuri are in a way similar to the mardi gras of Southern Europe. The floats in Japan are more devil-bedecked and often richer and more artistic. Their themes are taken from the story of Japanese heroes and mythology, at times from Religious traditions. It must
THE JAPANESE THEATRE 535
be said that there is never the drunkenness or the free mingling of the sexes that characterize the celebrations of Southern Europe. Nor do the revelers indulge in coarse or vulgar actions or words. While in Europe we found ourselves more than once in the midst of these celebrations. The complete lack of respect shown to women, especially, and to foreigners, shocked me beyond words. In Japan we have gone to see many a matsuri but never once were we so much as jostled. (I pay my tribute to real Japanese courtesy, especially that of the soldiers). I should make mention of the Jugglers, the fireman-ladder performers, the Geisha dancers, and the parades of the harlots in the Yoshiwara, or restricted districts. (These parades I have never seen; but they are made much of in Japanese art and literature, and tourists have told me about them). Then there are the feast and the prayer dances in connection with the festivals of the planting and the harvest seasons and the dance. Those must have deep religious significance indulged in at the time of the O-Bon festival. The festival is sometimes spoken of by foreigners as "the feast of the Lanterns." It is the Japanese and Chinese All-Souls-Day, but as yet it has not degenerated into our Hallowe'en. It is during this festival that the dead return to visit the living. Then there are the dances to ward off pestilence or to overcome a drought. These generally have religious significance and are closely connected with the primitive stage. The story teller with his heroic epics is still listened to, and the wandering minstrel even yet has a place in society.
Let us now turn to what we might call a more formal description of the Japanese theater proper. It is in the theater that the life of Old Japan can be best studied. Let us divide the performances into three classes, the No, the jidai-mono, and the sewa-mono. The No is somewhat similar to the old Greek drama, using a chorus and generally two individual personages, who move about in a stately manner, and chant portions of a poem in a language, which though beautiful, is yet ancient and hard to understand. The music is weird and oriental, the costumes magnificent, but there is no scenery. The audience is composed chiefly of noblemen and ladies of rank, who come not only to be amused but to be instructed as well. These classic poems when given occupy the greater part of a day and evening. In order to break up the classic severity of the chief plays, intervals are filled in with broad fun comedies, which are presented in old-fashioned colloquial Japanese. From the No theaters of the high born and learned to the
536 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
Shibai theaters of the common people is a great descent, as far as taste and poetry are concerned. But to a foreign spectator the interest in the latter is far greater. In the Shibai theater the chorus, reduced in numbers, is put in a little cage, separated from the stage, where singers sit with the musicians. The jidai-mono are historical plays; the sewa-mono are comedies of manners. The theaters are amply provided with scenery and stage properties. A revolving center to the stage allows of a second scene being set up behind while the first is in course of acting. On the conclusion of the first, the stage revolves, carrying away with it actors, scenery, and all. Originally these shibai actors were despised, and even the
A TOKYO STREET SCENE
theaters were looked upon as places too vile for any gentleman to enter. That feeling has changed now, even to the allowing of women on the stage. As we said before, the opening of the Imperial theater marked a new epic for the Japanese stage; for on this theater men and women acted side by side. The famous portrayer of female characters among the men actors do their parts so well that in some plays which I have seen the leading female roles were taken by men, the minor women characters by women. The male actors could not be distinguished. There are theaters in Japan managed entirely by women, all the actors being women. In the best theaters, the best acting is done by men. The reason generally given for this is that in oriental lands men and women do not
THE JAPANESE THEATRE 537
mingle socially or professionally. However, one interesting story has it that once a beautiful woman appeared on the stage and one of the princes fell in love with her. The emperor, in an endeavor to prevent this terrible calamity from happening again, issued an edict prohibiting the appearance of women. Oddly enough, the founders of the modern Japanese stage were two women, named O-Kuni and O-Tsu. The reputation of O-Kuni and her companion was far from spotless; but Mr. Lafcadio Hearn gives the following as her story: "She was a priestess in the great temple of Kitsuki, and fell in love with a swashbuckler named Nogoya Sanza, with whom she fled away to Kyoto. On the way thither, her extraordinary beauty caused a second swashbuckler to become enamoured of her. Sanza killed him, and the dead man's face never ceased to haunt the girl. At Kyoto she supported her lover by dancing the sacred dances in the dry bed of the river. Then the pair went to Yedo (Tokyo) and began to act. Sanza himself became a famous actor. After her lover's death O-Kuni returned to Kitsuki, where being an excellent poetess, she supported, or at least occupied herself, by giving lessons in the art. But afterwards she shaved off her hair and became a nun, and built a little temple in Kitsuki where she lived and taught. And the reason why she built the temple was that she might pray for the soul of the man whom the sight of her beauty had ruined. The temple stood until thirty years ago; but there is now nothing left of it but a broken statue of the compassionate god Jizo. The family still live at Kitsuki; and until the late revolution the head of the family was always entitled to a share in the profits of the local theater, because his ancestress, the beautiful priestess, had founded the art."
Japan's greatest actor when we were there was Ichikawa Danjuro, who has since died. He was not only a wonderful actor, but had marvelous agility as a dancer. His family have been noted actors for nine generations. We had the great privilege of seeing a wonderful performance given by this man. I thought you might be interested in hearing the account of our treat from one of Mr. Thomas's letters written at that time. "In the morning I helped clean. In the afternoon Peg, Brother Stoker, and I went to see Japan's greatest actor in one of his most famous plays, in the Tsugi Theater, perhaps the biggest in all Japan, at any rate the biggest in Tokyo. The actor's name is Danjuro and the play was "Donjiro." I knew the story of the play, so it was not at all hard to follow. The actors are all men and the woman's parts therefore to an American seemed rather ragged. I expected the acting to be absolutely emotionless; yet it was anything but that, although it was always very deliberate and 'square cornered.' Every emotion seemed to have a fixed expression and every action was measured by inches.
538 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
Danjuro displayed great powers of facial expression and of emotional acting, which, if he had been an American, would have very likely made him an ideal player of tragedy. The actors all spoke in a monotone which was not unpleasant. The children's parts were played very well, and when they spoke they did it with a childish drawn-out 'twang' also in a monotone. The costumes and staging were very beautiful, perfect in every detail. The stage helpers, who were dressed in black and wore black veils, were ever-present, fixing and helping, but seemed to be never noticed by either actors or audience. In one act, where very little was said but a whole lot acted, a 'chorus' of two men one with a 'Samisen' (a banjo-like instrument played with a big pick and, from appearances, by the twitching facial muscles) and one who 'sang.' This very likely corresponded to the explaining 'choruses' of the old pantomime. At any rate I never before witnessed such combinations of sounds and awful faces. I suppose the tale he told was as dreadful as the telling of it, but I can hardly believe it to be. They played during the second act, wherein a faithful little youngster was killed; also the woman villain.
"The story of the play is about like this. The ruler of a certain Gun dies leaving the rule to a small son (10 years), whose mother is also dead. This child of course had faithful followers, consisting chiefly of a good nurse, an old Lord, and a young child who is the nurse's boy, and a judge. His principal enemies are 'Danjuro', who is trying to kill the young ruler to obtain the rule for himself, a wicked judge, and the judge's wife. The story opens by an attempt on the part of the wicked Judge's wife to get into the graces of the young ruler and replace the nurse. This fails. In the meantime two plots are unearthed which implicated these people. One is caused by discovering a murderer hidden in the ceiling. He is brought out and severely beaten. (We know it is severe because of the awful noise a man makes who sits right out in full view of the audience and claps hard wood on the floor.) Also a letter is found which shows the plot. Now this letter implicates 'Donjiro' and it must be recovered; therefore 'Donjiro,' who is a magician, turns himself into a rat and gets into the house, and although caught in the act, gets away with the letter. This is a big scene of the play from the gallery standpoint. It opens by a trap coming up with a big rat lying on the floor and kicking for dear life under the foot of a very strangely painted (I don't know what for) man, who flourishes swords and does enough acting to kill twenty men, but the rat nevertheless gets away with the letter, and, running, drops down a trap. Instantly 'Donjiro' in full dress, holding the letter between his teeth, comes up another trap just beside the one the rat goes down. Great change and very dramatic. He walks very slowly and deliberately down hanamichi stage and leaves.
THE JAPANESE THEATRE 539
"The next scene is the trial scene where Donjiro is at first freed by the wicked judge, who burns all the evidence, but later, the good judge comes in and convicts him. He becomes a prisoner. Now for revenge. In the next act he tries to kill the old faithful Lord who brought the evidence against him. He merely wounds him, however, as the stage is turned and the next scene shows the old man borne home by faithful servants and hidden behind screens.
"Shortly Donjiro follows and my! What a following! Remade up; with hair standing straight up and eyes bulging out, Donjiro walks slowly and with marked steps down the hanamichi stage, carrying the bloody dagger. I never before saw such fierceness displayed. He finds the old man and another fight takes place in which Donjiro is overpowered by the servants of the old Lord. The old Lord is given a dagger; and while his son holds his hand, he stabs Donjiro and kills him. Thus the play ends, Donjiro and the woman villain killed on one side, the faithful Lord wounded and the faithful little child killed on the other side. Aside from the acting and the play the theater, stage, and audience were very interesting. We took 3 of the 10 foreign chairs in a corner of the first Gallery. It cost us 3.20 yen ($1.60) a seat and 10c for a program. The theater is a large, square building with two galleries and a circle that would very nearly correspond to our dress circle at home. All but the top gallery, in which the people seemed to be standing in order to see, was divided into little compartments which would hold 6 or 8 persons when sitting on the floor, which they all did. The play started near noon and let out at 11 p. m. We stayed until 6 and saw the most important of what I suppose were two plays. During the entire time the audience was eating and drinking. Such food and so much of it. I never saw such stuffing before. And when they were not eating, they were smoking. The place soon became full of cigarette smoke. The women generally smoked pipes, but some smoked cigarettes. Each little box had a small 'hibashi' for smoking and keeping the tea warm. The stage was very wide and was of the revolving order. That is, when they wanted a quick change, the stage was turned around and showed another setting. Besides the stage proper there were two sub-stages, which came from the back of the theater towards the stage. Judging from appearance the stage covered more ground than the main part of the auditorium."
One should not forget the movies. Japanese movie art has flourished greatly in the last few years. The Japanese censors eliminate from the American films all the kissing and the embracing, which means most of many of our plays. Thus we see that the ordinary film love-story would have no appeal in Japan.
540 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
Our low comedy stuff and our wildest cowboy Bill Hart, Tom Mix plays, are shown in Japan as plays which illustrate American life. The Japanese movie fans, like the British and the Europeans, conceive of America as a place where men jump over buildings onto horses, and where everyone carries at least two pistols and constantly uses them. Movies the world over leave little to the imagination. The ordinary European film is one of little action and much descriptive reading. American movies have much photographic action without any descriptive words. Japanese movies have little action and little reading. In our country we are producing, through the movies, a new dramatic art, which probably will not completely develop owing to the invention of the Vitaphone. It is an art which can probably be called facial pantomime. In time we shall be able to put on a complete play of little action without any descriptive words. The Japanese can do this today. Their pantomime acting is more developed than ours, and their movie actors use that art instead of action. Americans do not need to use any of the seeming crudities of the Japanese theater. To the Japanese they are not crudities for they (the Japanese) have greater powers of imagination than the Westerner possesses, and are able to shut out what they do not wish to see and get only the beauty of the whole. We smother the imagination; they foster it. Since the re-establishment of the Japanese empire with its tense nationalism the Japanese stage, like most of the other institutions of Japan, has been used as an agent to develop love of country and an appreciation of Japanese culture. The stage, therefore, today gives us the fine things in Japanese history and idealizes the men and the events which have made for the enlargement of the concept of Japanese national destiny. We must, therefore, not lose sight of the political significance of the present day stage. This may in time mar the Japanese drama by making its spirit propagandist, but to date this has not happened. Thus we have in the Japanese stage a strong and true reflection of Japanese life and culture.
THE RELIEF SOCIETY OF THE CHURCH OF JESUS CHRIST OF LATTER-DAY SAINTS
Motto—Charity Never Faileth
THE GENERAL BOARD
MRS. CLARISSA SMITH WILLIAMS - - - - - - President MRS. JENNIE BRIMHALL KNIGHT - - - - First Counselor MRS. LOUISE YATES ROBISON - - Second Counselor MRS. AMY BROWN LYMAN - General Secretary and Treasurer
Mrs. Emma A. Empe Mrs. Julia A. Child Mrs. Rosannah C. Irvine Mrs. Jeanette A. Hyde Mrs. Cora L. Bennion Miss Alice Louise Reynolds Miss Sarah M. McLelland Mrs. Julia A. F. Lund Mrs. Nettie D. Bradford Mrs. Annie Wells Cannon Mrs. Amy Whipple Evans Mrs. Elise B. Alder Mrs. Lalene H. Hart Mrs. Ethel Reynolds Smith Mrs. Inez K. Allen Mrs. Lotta Paul Baxter Mrs. Barbara Howell Richards Mrs. Ida P. Beal Mrs. Lizzie Thomas Edward, Music Director Miss Edna Coray, Organist
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
Editor - - - - CLARISSA SMITH WILLIAMS Associate Editor - - - - ALICE LOUISE REYNOLDS Assistant Manager - - Amy Brown Lyman
Room 28, Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah Magazine entered as second-class matter at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah
VOL. XV OCTOBER, 1928 No. 10
EDITORIAL
Japan
This month we are presenting to our readers a Japanese issue. Japan is the most progressive of our Oriental countries. This progress is due largely to the foresight of one of its emperors, who, in a well known Japanese slogan embodied an idea which declared that whatever anyone else knew Japan should know. The interesting thing about the whole matter is that he came close to making his dream come true, for to a surprising degree Japan has absorbed the civilization of the modern world. We are publishing an article from President Franklin S. Harris of the Brigham Young University, who as the guest of a scientific convention, in 1926, had the pleasure of being entertained by the Japanese, and who knows from experience that what has often been written and spoken of Japanese courtesy and politeness is absolutely true. We present also an article on the drama in Japan, written by Mrs. Edna Harker Thomas, wife of Dr. Elbert D. Thomas, who, with him spent years in Japan while he was doing missionary work in that country. In most lines of art Japan seems to have more than held her own. There is no doubting that Japanese art is very old. So eminent an authority as Mr. H. H. Powers states that the question has never been settled as to whether or not Japanese art is as old as Greek art. In any event, available information seems to warrant 542 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE the view that in the matter of age Japanese art stands next to Greek-art. Many of our readers will recall that Japanese art was quite the vogue a decade ago and that some of our American painters took on a Japanesque manner both in composition and atmosphere. The Japanese people are eager for education. There is scarcely a university in the civilized world that has not a few Japanese students in it. Japanese students have made splendid records in the universities of the United States, Great Britain and France. They give one who comes into contact with them a feeling that they are mentally alert. That they are courageous no one has doubted since their victories in the Japanese-Russian war a decade or two ago. That Japan is the leading country of the Orient is indicated by the fact that it is a member of the Council of the League of Nations. Just what is before this bright-faced, dark-eyed, darkhaired people of diminutive stature, is hard to conjecture. But that they are forward-moving and persevering none acquainted with them will doubt. Japanese Woman at the Pan-Pacific Conference Dr. Valeria H. Parker, president of the National Council of Women, in a lecture on the Pan-Pacific Conference of Women recently held at Honolulu, and promoted by the Pan-Pacific Union, made a report of an outstanding address that was made by a Japanese woman who had been educated at Wellsley College. She spoke perfect English. In a brief talk she reviewed the progress of the woman's movement in Japan. Those who heard her marveled at her brilliant exposition and wondered how long it would be before any American woman could go into the Orient and deliver an address of equal excellence, speaking a foreign language with anything like the perfection with which this gifted Japanese woman spoke English. One of the things that the American woman does not seem to achieve very frequently, is the ability to speak fluently any other language than her own; she is thus deprived of the ability to put her message over to those who speak other languages.
Captain Roald Amundsen
As we dictate this editorial, additional evidence is at hand from the discovery of the Amundsen plane that he and his companions died in their heroic attempt to rescue Nobile, the Italian aviator, and his company. In the passing of Captain Amundsen one of the most courageous of the earth has gone to another sphere. His behavior has been that of one who appears to have the blood of the old Nor-
EDITORIAL 543
wegian vikings in his veins. The discoverer of the South Pole, in 1911, his voice has been heard in many countries, relating the thrilling incidents of the adventure that proved so tragic for Scott and his party. In the summer of 1925 Amundsen attempted to reach the North Pole in a plane. For a number of days he was lost, and great was the anxiety throughout the civilized world. However, anxiety was finally relieved by the discovery of his whereabouts. It was our good fortune to be in Norway during that season, and this is what occurred. His entry into the City of Oslo was dramatic. Not far from the palace of the king a huge platform was erected, where a thousand men, many with trained voices, formed an immense glee club. It was arranged that Amundsen should circle the city and alight at close range. As the plane descended, the chorus began singing the Norwegian national song. A few moments after this reception, in which a very large number of people of the nation took part as spectators, Amundsen was received by the king; and the next day, surrounded by high state officials, and persons interested in his own particular line, he was given a dinner in the royal palace. The whole civilized world would have been joyous to have taken part in that demonstration and now, with Norway, all the civilized world mourns his loss. Yet his death was just such a death as one would imagine would befall him; for the same courage that carried him on to discovery and conquest lured him to his death. He has both lived and died that the unknown might become the known. The Italian people and the Norwegian people are different in temperament, different in race, different in language, different in religion, but there was that human quality binding man to man that overcame all these differences. If it can be said with truth that Charles Lindbergh's flight across the Atlantic to Paris has bound continent to continent and has been a means of establishing peace and good will, it can just as truly be said that Amundsen's death has performed the same high and noble service for humanity, and that international differences should disappear in the light of noble sacrifice—the highest evidence of great and abiding love.
Horse Racing Discontinued
As we dictate this editorial, it appears that the racing at Lagoon, which has furnished an opportunity for so much betting, which is gambling, is probably brought to an end. This news will ease the minds of countless mothers, some wives, and, what is more regrettable, perhaps some husbands. A good deal has been said about the conduct of young people. The retort is not infrequent from persons addressed that their concern is not so much over the young people as over married
544 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
people, who can hardly be classed as youths, but who, as fathers and mothers, indulge frequently in very unseemly conduct. Many people have been shocked beyond expression to discover that in our communities, where we are wont to boast of a Christian civilization, there are wives and mothers betting on horse races. Only last week we heard a rather young married woman declare that she had not missed a single horse race this season. She added, "Of course the fun is betting on the horses." Last evening we heard another woman in the presence of her husband say she was "broke," and she gave as her reason that she had just come from the horse races. Relief from this evil appears to have come late, but the old adage asserts itself once more: "Better late than never."
Correction
At the April Conference of the Relief Society Sister Lulu Y. Smith, counselor to Sister Lizzie B. Owen, made an address in the Theological Department. Sister Owen, the president of Cache Stake, was announced on the program for the address, but owing to a death in the family Sister Smith appeared in her place. The Conference notes followed the published program, consequently Sister Owen's name appeared instead of Sister Smith's name. The address of Sister Smith was greatly appreciated and we wish to acknowledge the error in the notes.
A Weird Hush of Beauty By Glen Perrins
Sunset cliffs! Hollow grottoes filled with the roar of the ocean! Dismal caves opening into the dazzling sunlight of the Pacific Coast. Weird formations that have been washed out by the action of the sea during ages past. Famous are these curious formations of many beautiful colorings. These caves—the Seven Caves of La Jolla (which is from the Spanish, meaning the gem, or jewel, and so pronounced "La Hoy-Ya") are found near San Diego, California, and the Sunset Cliffs near by. Both have been used in the motion pictures time and time again. The cliff of caves is a haven for hosts of black cormorants or sea birds, who rest themselves on the many crags and points, after their long flights to sea. These birds are expert divers and live entirely on small fish. As the sun sinks over the broad expanse of water, one looks on the cliffs and caves, brilliantly colored in golden lustre, and marvels at the weird hush of beauty which falls over the spot.
The Flowery Kingdom By Henry F. Kirkham
There is an indefinable air of mystery about the Orient that intrigues the imagination. Perhaps, to the western mind imbued with the dash and clatter of modern civilization, the subtle appearance of antiquity, the lure of strange manners, strange landscapes, strange language—all pregnant with the charm of far-off places—exerts a fascination that is difficult to resist. But be that as it may, the eyes of the Western world are again turned towards that distant eastern land—China. Here that sleeping giant of the Orient, with much stirring of recumbent limbs, is awakening from his dream of centuries; here are directed the armed ships of modern times, even as Columbus sailed his little Armada in days of long ago. China is as much a golden prize now as when it lured that great Italian under the guise of fabled Cathay. And, although not quite the land of treasures depicted by Marco Polo, still China is a mighty empire of potential wealth.
The most populous country in Asia, indeed in the world, China proper, represents an area of 1,532,000 square miles with inhabitants variously estimated at from three to four hundred millions. Including the dependencies of Manchuria, Mongolia, Thibet, and East Turkestan, with an area of 2,745,000 square miles and a population of about twenty millions, we have a combined territory of 4,277,000 square miles and a population of near four hundred million souls. When we consider that the United States, including Alaska and Hawaii, has an area of only 3,624,000 square miles and not one-third the population of China, then we begin to get some idea of the immense size and possibilities of this Eastern land.
The antiquity of China is also vast as measured by Western standards. It is a well established fact that China was a fairly civilized nation, with organized government, written language, and considerable progress in the arts and sciences, two thousand years before the Christian era. Indeed, there are Chinese traditions that reach back into history six thousand years or more. And in all this time, China has been a compact, homogeneous race, having the same language, the same type of inhabitants as now. No other nation has remained so little affected by the march of time and so unchanged in racial stock as China. While it is true that several different dynasties have
546 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
sat upon the "peacock" throne, nevertheless these various ruling classes were all of the same parent stock and became speedily absorbed into the general mass. In fact, this ability of China to swallow alien people, without a touch of indigestion, has been the wonder of the world.
From whence the Chinese first came remains a mooted question. Some historians claim Chaldea as the place of their origin, pointing to the Chinese knowledge of mathematics and of astronomy as a proof of their contention. Still others hold that India was the place of their birth. But as a matter of fact, there is no clear evidence with which to support either of these claims. In truth, so lost in antiquity is the land of their origin that China might have been that very people of the "land of Nod," as of any other place. Who can tell?
The earliest Chinese seem to have been a more warlike and colonizing race than those who followed them. They came down from the interior to the sea along the fertile river valleys and finally pushed themselves over a great expanse of territory. There are some traditions, even at that early date, of other inferior tribes that they conquered and whose land they appropriated. But such people, if there were any, became quickly absorbed and so lost their identity. It was not until the introduction of the religion of Taoism and the philosophy of Confucius that the Chinese appear to have become crystallized into that fixed state of passivity which has remained the chief characteristic of the nation until this day. Taoism, in brief, taught the Oneness of life, and it firmly
THE FLOWERY KINGDOM 547
established the family unit as the fundamental basis of society. Under this conception of the universe every human soul, from peasant to prince, once formed the great one. There was to be no caste, no nobility, not even any personal God. All the earthly conduct of each individual was guided by six cardinal rules. Accordingly, all had been said that could be of moment in the affairs of man, and there was no use of inquiring for further knowledge. All that came after was but empty wind and of no value in the development of the soul. It is plain that a race imbued, nay saturated, by this strange mixture of philosophy, Buddhism, and Mohammedanism, would have no motive for exploring the unfolding panorama of truth. It was enough for their simple minds to learn well the maxims of the sages and to live accordingly in their daily life.
Many of these maxims are really worthy of preservation. As moral teachings they have their place in the affairs of mankind. They sought to inculcate industry, frugality, filial obedience; and these precepts of course, are of value. As a system of religion, however, they do not meet the needs of the spirit. Here are four of them from the writings of Confucius:
"Beware of doing to another what you would not that others should do to you."
"To know what we know, and to know what we do not know, is knowledge."
"The filial son is one who gives his parents no anxiety but for his health."
548 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
"If you guide the people by laws, and enforce the laws by punishment, they will lose the sense of shame and seek to evade them; but if you guide them by virtuous example, and diffuse among them love of order, they will be ashamed to transgress."
When we remember that Confucius lived some five hundred years before the Christian era, these maxims are not so bad. The first is a statement of the Golden Rule in the negative sense; the last might well be adopted by governors of men for their own guidance. In truth, throughout all the centuries of Chinese development, the cultivation of the spirit of classical reflection came to be the very soul of the nation, so that the scholars, or "literati," grew to symbolize the pinnacle of achievement. All other professions ranked inferior to these; and through all the ups and downs of changing fortune, this was the class that moulded and directed the ultimate course of public events. From time to time, some far-seeing ruler tried, in vain, to break the power of the "literati." In 221 B. C., Huang-ti, the Napoleon of China, decreed the destruction of all books without exception, and sought to put to death all "literati" who were depositaries of ancient traditions. So many other enlightened leaders have attempted to reshape this fixity of thought to more progressive standards, but with little success. Even Christianity, after centuries of active proselyting and the expenditure of vast funds, has been confronted by the dead wall of negation, and has caused, as yet, scarcely a ripple on the broad sea of Chinese life. It is a difficult task to reason with a philosopher.
THE FLOWERY KINGDOM 549
Many things of material value have been contributed by China to the world. The invention of gunpowder, the mariner's compass, even printing, has been attributed, by many authorities, to the Chinese. Also, some wonderful examples in decorative work on silks and china. The construction of the Grand Canal, 1,200 miles long, the building of the Great wall, 1,500 miles in length, are tributes to their engineering skill, especially when we consider that these two gigantic works were executed many centuries ago. China exports many commodities, the most famous of which is tea. The country is rich in minerals and flora, but these sources of wealth have been largely neglected until late years. The present trouble in China is a matter of statesmanship. China is coming to some degree of knowledge of modern progress. The Chinese naturally resent the attempts of recent years to reduce them to vassalage. They were civilized when Europe was in a state of barbarism. All they now need is the friendly understanding and assistance of their brothers of the Occident.
The twelve persons who comprised the Japanese Mission from June, 1902, to September, 1903: President Heber J. Grant, his wife Augusta W. Grant and their daughter Mary, Alma O. Taylor, Horace S. Ensign and his wife Mary W. Ensign, Fred O. Caine, J. W. Featherstone and his wife Marie Snow Featherstone, J. W. Stoker, Erastus L. Jarvis and Sanford W. Hedges.
Japanese woodland selected by President Heber J. Grant and his co-laborers as the place where Japan was dedicated for the opening of the Latter-day Saint Mission.
Pioneers
WILD GEESE—MARTHA OSTENSO By Lais V. Hales
"Wild Geese" is a first novel and winner of the $13,500 prize offered jointly by the Pictorial Review, Dodd, Mead & Company, and Famous-Players in 1925. Its author, Martha Ostenso, is a Norwegian by birth but has spent her life on the prairie lands of Minnesota and Canada. "Wild Geese" is a story of the Canadian prairie farmland while Miss Ostenso's second novel "The Dark Dawn" deals with the prairies of Minnesota. Miss Ostenso was a well-known poet before she became a prize-winning novelist.
"Wild Geese" tells the story of the Caleb Gare family, outlined against the drab background of the soil of the prairies of Canada, where they contend the year round with the sun, the rain, the drought, and the blight. In it we feel the land-hunger which took possession of so many of our pioneers. We feel the stark loneliness which work could not destroy. We see people thrown inward upon themselves with their passions stored up without a promise of any outlet. We see the completion of a perfect cycle of plowing, harrowing, planting, growing, reaping, and threshing and we feel the effect it has on the human beings who help Nature in bringing this cycle to completion. Tired bodies and minds, with no feeling "after the soil and the live stock have taken their share" we feel is the tragedy of such a life. We see, vividly portrayed for us, the part that the soil, the isolation, and the hard winters played in the lives of our pioneers.
Amelia Gare had loved a good man and from their love had come Mark Jordan who was born after the tragic death of his father. In order to give her child a name Amelia married Caleb Gare and went to live with him on his farm in Canada. While she reared a family here Mark grew up in ignorance of his parentage. All this time Caleb used Amelia's love for her son to bend her to his will. Not only Amelia but his son Martin and two daughters Ellen and Judith he cowed into submission through Amelia. But with the coming of Lind Archer, the new school teacher, came a breath of freedom which immediately has its effect on Judith the least submissive of the Gare household. The spirit of rebellion against continual toil with no promise of anything but more toil in the future enters Caleb's home. With the coming of Mark Jordan to the village Caleb's hold over Amelia strengthens. Mark and Lind come to love one another and Amelia becomes more anxious than ever that nothing shall destroy their happiness. Caleb, obsessed with his growing crops, still watches his family
552 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
closely and awaits the time to use his whip to the shame of Mark. At the end of the haying season Judith elopes with the man she loves and the accidental opening of a desk and a wild prairie fire destroy both Caleb Gare and his whip. Caleb in his land hunger and love for his beautiful growing flax has, with the help of the prairie fire, worked his own ruin.
Martha Ostenso knows how to write vividly and convincingly. In spite of much adverse criticism we cannot feel other than the inevitable in the prairie fire with which the life of Caleb ends. In her opening chapter Miss Ostenso describes the treacherous muskeg, bottomless and foul, and it seems to hang over the story with its promise of disaster. When the feet of Caleb Gare become hopelessly tangled in its meshes we feel again the inevitable. There is a certain savage realism—a Norwegian-American realism that we feel is in good keeping with such a novel of pioneer life. We feel no unnatural change in Caleb Gare. He is beaten after a life of preparation for his moment of triumph. But he is still Caleb Gare with his land hunger, belonging infinitely body and soul to the earth for which he has worked all his life. He is vividly portrayed and we feel the effect that thwarted love has had in turning a great love into a malicious love and making him feel that the growth of the earth is the only thing worthy of respect, of homage. The other characters of the book are also vividly portrayed against the background of nature. Few authors can so successfully portray the inner sufferings of men and women. Miss Ostenso shows us what her characters are and then she shows us why they are just the people they are. She sees both the beauty and the ugliness within the human soul and she gives it to us in beautiful, vivid, poetic language. Many pioneer women will recognize in both the inner and the outer life of Amelia much of the joy, the sorrow, hunger, and beauty of their own life. Over the book hovers the atmosphere of the wild geese, all moved by a common impulse akin to that of the pioneer, always pressing northward, their eyes glistening with mysterious hope, their necks strained to catch a glimpse of their promised land of blue lakes, tall reeds, and broad fields. Their cold lonely cry as they pass over the haunts of men on their way to the swamps echoes in the story. It is a cry of loneliness—of seeking—a cry which smites upon the heart like "the loneliness of the universe—a magnificent seeking through solitude—an endless quest." Their cry is heard at the sowing and at the harvesting. They mark the beginning and the end of the period of growth. We feel something of the effect their cry must have had on the heart of Caleb Gare as he listened to it at sowing and again when the earth had yielded to him its rich growth.
Song By Susan T. Jennings
Singing in the orchard, happy boy! Oh, the marvel of your song! Singing through the days so long! While the beauteous birds and bees Wing through sunshine and the trees. Waft your song on summer's breeze, All sad thoughts from me decoy.
Sing beyond the orchard, happy boy! Take your song into the world, Let your glad notes be unfurled; Lift the sorrowing with rapture, Some lost soul, perchance, you'll capture. Sickness, sadness you may lure With your throbbing trills of joy.
Sing where flowers flourish, happy boy! Sing beneath a cold, white moon, Sing where sky frets out its gloom. Be your voice as chastening rod; Sing so seaman, man of sod May hear promptings of his God In your song. Sing, happy boy!
Notes from the Field By Amy Brown Lyman
Schedule of dates and program for Relief Society Conferences to be held in connection with the Priesthood Conventions during October, November and December, 1928.
DATES
October 13-14—Benson, Nevada, No. Sevier, Tintic, Tooele, Woodruff, Yellowstone. October 20-21—Cassia, Curlew, Lost River, Lyman, Malad, Summit, Wayne. October 27-28—Bannock, Burley, Emery, Hollywood, Twin Falls. November 3-4—Alberta, Beaver, Blaine, Duchesne, Lethbridge, Roosevelt, Shelley, St. Johns. November 10-11—Bear River, Idaho Falls, Portneuf, Snowflake, So. Sevier, Taylor, Teton, Uintah. November 17-18—Big Horn, Garfield, Idaho, Maricopa, Oneida, Panguitch, San Francisco. November 24-25—Bear Lake, Juarez, Kanab, Los Angeles, Parowan, Pocatello, Rigby, So. Sanpete, St. Joseph. December 1-2—Boise, Franklin, Gunnison, Juab, Millard, Moapa, San Juan, Wasatch. December 8-9—Minidoka, Montpelier, No. Sanpete, San Luis, Star Valley, St. George, Union, Young, Raft River. December 15-16—Blackfoot, Carbon, Deseret, Fremont, Hyrum, Morgan, Sevier.
RELIEF SOCIETY PROGRAM
SATURDAY RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE
10:00-11:20 a. m. (For all women of the stake)
Congregational Singing, "Scatter Seeds of Kindness"......No. 5, R. S. Song Book Greeting and Report (10 minutes).....R. S. Stake President Educational Work in the Relief Society (10 minutes).....Stake Board Member Reports from Ward Presidents (30 minutes) Remarks (15 minutes)..............General Board Member Duet or Chorus, "Gentle Words"....No. 118, R. S. Song Book
NOTES FROM THE FIELD 555
EXECUTIVE OFFICERS' MEETING
11:20 a. m.-12:30 p. m. (For stake presidency and secretary-treasurer only)
Instructions (15 minutes)............General Board Member New Plan for Visiting Teachers (20 minutes)............General Board Member Miscellaneous (10 minutes)
RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE
2:00-3:00 p. m. (For all women of the stake)
Congregational Singing, "Make the World Brighter".....No. 197, S. S. Song Book New Plan for Visiting Teachers (20 minutes)............General Board Member Standards of Child Care (25 minutes). General Board Member. Ladies' Trio, "Sunrise and You."
STAKE AND WARD OFFICERS' MEETING
3:00-4:00 p. m. (Bishops especially invited)
Social Problems: a. How to Cooperate with County Charity Department (15 minutes)..General Board Member b. Care of Defective Children (20 minutes)..............General Board Member c. Importance of Monthly Consultation Between Bishop and Ward Relief Society President (15 minutes)....Ward Bishop Miscellaneous (10 minutes)
STAKE BOARD MEETING
7:00-8:30 p. m. (For stake board members only)
Questionnaire (35 minutes)..........General Board Member Responsibility and Duty of Class Leaders (15 minutes)....General Board Member Report on Care of the Aged (15 minutes). Stake Board Member Miscellaneous.
556 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
Northwestern States Mission.
MAY DAY FESTIVAL, VANCOUVER RELIEF SOCIETY
Throughout British Columbia, Canada, it is customary to celebrate May Day with a festival; accordingly, the Vancouver Relief Society, with Mrs. Mary R. Leadbetter as president, held a very interesting party. The young women of the branch were given tickets to sell, and the one selling the largest number of tickets was crowned Queen of the May. Five entered the contest and sold tickets amounting to $72.50. The other four were maids of honor. The affair was very successful, and brought out many visitors as well as members.
Lost River Stake.
The presentation of a pageant was a feature of the annual social of the Lost River stake Relief Society, which was held June 27, 1928. The pageant for Lost River stake by Lottisa Pratt, was adapted from "Onward" an epic of progress, written by Claire Stewart Boyer, for the Semi-Centennial Review of the Relief Societies of Salt Lake county, in March, 1928. The stage was beautifully decorated in the Relief Society colors, white and gold. Real yellow roses and green boughs against a pale blue background, formed an effective setting for the characters who appeared in the pageant dressed in white and yellow. In part I, the women who impersonated the six general presidents of the Relief Society appeared one by one in a frame which was in the form of a huge yellow rose. Past and present stake Relief Society presidents and counselors, and presidencies of the six ward Relief
NOTES FROM THE FIELD 557
Societies, appeared in Part II. Chorus numbers were rendered by the combined chorus from the six ward Relief Societies and the stake presidency. Dancing and refreshments followed the program. During the evening talks were given by Stake President Henry N. Mickelsen, Relief Society Stake President Mary E. Black, and others.
Portneuf Stake.
An exhibit was held in Portneuf stake, June 22, 1928, when beautiful quilts and many kinds of handwork were displayed, all of which had been made in the ward work and business meetings since November. When plans for the exhibit were first announced, last November, each ward was given a suggestive list of articles by the stake board. Garden Creek ward was awarded a bound volume of the Relief Society Magazine as a prize for the best display. In appreciation of their participation in the exhibit the stake board presented each of the other wards with a year's subscription to the Relief Society Magazine. Prizes which the stake board offered last November to the wards making the best record during the season's work in reading the Book of Mormon, were also awarded The prize for the best record made in a ward having an enrollment of more than twenty was won by Arimo, and Merrill ward was given the prize for the best record in a ward having an enrollment under twenty. Each ward in the stake furnished a number for the program, which was given in connection with the exhibit. The stake Relief Society president, Mrs. Dicy W. Henderson, gave the opening address.
North Weber Stake.
The members of Ogden Third ward Relief Society have become very much interested in the Literature lessons as a result of a poem contest conducted by the class leader, Anna Middleton. Fourteen poems were submitted by members of the class, from which three were selected by the stake board as prize winners. The first prize "One Hundred and One Famous Poems" was awarded to Elizabeth Hardman for her poem "Treasures of Gold;" a volume of poems by John Greenleaf Whittier was given as second prize to Ellen Gealta, for her poem "To My Mother;" and Myrtle Middleton Brown received a volume of poems by James Whitcomb Riley as third prize for her poem "Seagulls." This contest has created a deeper appreciation for the writings of the authors presented in the Relief Society course in literature.
New Zealand Mission.
The New Zealand Relief Society board, with Mrs. Jennie Magleby, president, conducts Relief Society work in this mission in a very efficient manner. There are about twelve members on the board, most of them Maori women. This Relief Society board
558 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
held a five-day convention last January, under the direction of Mrs. Cora F. Jenkins, who was president at that time. All the board members were present although many of them traveled from 150 to 1,300 miles in reaching Auckland and returning to their homes. The convention opened with a report and testimony meeting, followed by meetings in which every phase of Relief Society work as it is conducted in New Zealand, was discussed. Plans were made for the Relief Society meetings to be held at the Hui Tau (April conference) and committees were appointed to arrange for department work. As a result of the plans made by the board at its convention, the Relief Society meetings at the April Hui Tau were very successful. One of the general sessions was devoted to a demonstration of model lessons, and department work was managed in a very capable manner by the women in charge.
Mardula By Josephine Spencer
I saw a face within a frame, A quaint old picture, known to none, Its heritage a single name From Time's complete oblivion won; A thread of music in it spun— Mardula!
Her eyes were like the dark lagoons In tropic forests shyly hid, With glimmers of the Southern moons Ready to ripple 'neath each lid; Their gaze a tempting challenge bid— Mardula!
Her cheek was woven with the rose, Her ear the fainter sea-shell's hue; Her throat was whiter than the snows, And her red lips, apart, I knew Were sweet with smiles, and dawn-like dew— Mardula!
I knew that romance, like the air, Had brooded in her storied days— That lovers, bold and debonair, With crowding tread, had sieged her ways; I guessed their sighs, their moon-sung lays— Mardula!
But I may never from her life One sweet, enchanted moment claim, Though I should seek with song, or strife; She is a picture, in a frame, And yields me but one thing—a name— Mardula!
Compensation By Ethel Allen Kilgore
'Tis sultry hot, the summer sun Rides high in cloudless sky, And scarce a breeze to sway the trees As birds go winging by. But up in the top of the poplar tree A bird gives us a treat, Singing a song so trillingly, "Sweet, sweet, sweet, pretty sweet."
A dust film settles on the flowers, The bees hum drowsily, The barn-yard fowls lift drooping wings, The dogs pant gustily. But still in the top of the poplar tree, In ecstasy complete, A yellow bird sings trillingly, "Sweet, sweet, sweet, pretty sweet."
559
Guide Lessons for December
LESSON I Theology and Testimony (First Week in December)
PEARL OF GREAT PRICE (Continued)
Book of Abraham
Suggestion: It is suggested that the entire class read the Book of Abraham and that the questions be widely distributed for answer. By such means it will be practicable to complete the recitation in the time assigned.
No Latter-day Saint will for a moment question the authenticity of the Book of Abraham. To question its authenticity would be to deny that Joseph Smith was either a Seer or a Revelator. All the attempts that have been made to disprove the divine authenticity of the book have ended in failure. The doctrine that it contains has not only held its own but has gained ground on the battle field of thought from the first. It is an autobiography of a brief part of Abraham's life. It is the testimony of a friend of God concerning the purpose and the nature of God's works. It is a plain statement of what we were before we came to earth, why we are here and what our future is to be.
The author, Abraham, introduces his environments as not only undesirable but incompatible with his attitudes towards life. He tells how he established his right to inherit leadership in the following language: "Having been myself a follower of righteousness, desiring also to be one who possessed great knowledge, and to be a greater follower of righteousness, and to possess a greater knowledge, and to be a father of many nations, a prince of peace, and desiring to receive instruction, and to keep the commandments of God, I became a rightful heir." His premortal superiority had already been revealed to him; he had found out by historical investigation that his was a noble line of ancestry, but he does not put these facts to the front as evidence of his worthiness. He sets forth his good conduct, his desire for knowledge, his attitude toward self improvement, and especially his desire to know what the Lord would have him do and then to do it. In the light of what Abraham here says concerning himself one is forcefully reminded of the aptness of Christ's declaration concerning the children of Abraham: "If ye were Abraham's children ye would do the works of Abraham."
GUIDE LESSONS FOR DECEMBER 561
QUESTIONS AND PROBLEMS
1. Compare the ambitions of Abraham with the word of the Lord recorded in Doc. And Cov. 88:77-79, and also the word of President Brigham Young, page 685, Doc. And Cov. Commentary.
2. What are the evidences that Abraham must have had a mother of strikingly stable character?
3. What are the evidences that the people in Abraham's day were sun worshippers? (Book of Abraham, Ch. 1:8-10)
4. What are the evidences that he who instructed Abraham also instructed Joseph Smith?
5. Where does the Book of Abraham point to the inundation of the Nile?
6. Tell of the prominent part that Egyptus played in the discovery and settlement of Egypt. (11:23-25.)
7. What honest king succeeded temporarily in establishing a kingdom by priesthood methods without the authority?
8. Show that the blessing of the priesthood is greater than the blessings of wealth and wisdom. (1:26.)
9. What great objective did Abraham have in mind when he wrote the book?
10. On what condition was the posterity of Abraham to possess the Promised Land? (2:6.)
11. What part of the promise made in 2:9 has been fulfilled and what part is yet unfulfilled?
12. What was the justification for Sarai passing as Abraham's sister: (a) a spiritual justification? (b) a social justification?
13. Where did Abraham get the Urim and Thummim?
14. What evidence have we that plate II was not fully translated? (See explanation of figures from 9-20.)
15. Give evidence that Abraham did not receive all of his revelations through the Urim and Thummim?
16. What was the Lord's great objective in having Abraham go into Egypt? (3:15.)
17. Was Abraham's mission to Egypt to be one of miracles, prophetic warnings, or one of a philosophic and scientific nature? Give reason for answer.
18. Give proof that Abraham taught in the courts of the Pharos' from the kings' throne. (Explanation of cut 3.)
19. Produce evidence that the Egyptians recognized the superiority of the intelligence of the Hebrew, the Priesthood they had, and the God they served. (Explanations of cut 3, 1:27 Genesis 47:10.)
562 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
20. Discuss this problem: The earth was made to test the children of God. (3:25.)
21. Prove that the glory of mortals is greater than the glory of Satan. (3:26-28.)
22. What is there in 3:28 to prove that the first estate is the premortal one?
23. What is the first and the second "added upon" spoken of in 3:26? In the Compendium Gems, p. 276, the Prophet Joseph is quoted as saying on May 21, 1843: "The spirits in the eternal worlds are like the spirits in this world. When these spirits have come into this world and received tabernacles, then died, and again have risen and received glorified bodies, they will have an ascendancy over the spirits who have no bodies, or kept not their first estate, like the Devil. The punishment of the Devil was that he should not have a habitation like men."
24. Wherein does the Book of Mormon make plain that counsel is a divine procedure? (4:26-31) and (5:2.)
25. In the light of the Book of Abraham, "Why passions within and tempters without?"
LESSON II Work and Business (Second Week in December)
TEACHERS' TOPIC FOR DECEMBER—THE HOME
IDEALS OF A LATTER-DAY SAINT HOME
Summary
"My son, hear the instructions of thy father, and forsake not the law of thy mother, for they shall be an ornament of grace unto thy head, and chains about thy neck; bind them continually upon thy heart, and tie them around thy neck."
"Youth is the period of discipline; and discipline, true and thorough, is a blessing that lasts beyond this life."
Character building is the most important and most satisfactory work a home can do. Habits and ideals formed in the home will influence the destiny of its members. How vital is the parental problem! It is within the possibilities of the home to be so conducted that it will impart a love of righteousness and justice to all, and the every day necessity of self control. The home should be a center of culture and refinement; here the value of faith and virtue should be implanted, and an inspiration to a strong purpose and a lofty aim.
The home should disseminate amongst its members a true
GUIDE LESSONS FOR DECEMBER 563
spirit of helpfulness, and a willingness to perform the duties of life for which God has given them power. Within the home should be the spirit of brotherly love, to be generously used in the affairs of life, both private and public. The Word of Wisdom should be the dominant note in the health program of the home. All should be taught to know the truth and act in accordance with its dictates. By example teach the value of industry and thrift, "The hand of the diligent maketh rich." Teach and uphold the sacredness of marriage and the evils of divorce. "Man is that he may have joy:" What greater joy than to be of value and service in the community. "God has given you yourselves, now what will you do with this gift."
LESSON III Literature (Third Week in December)
GLADYS ANN WAGSTAFF
Gladys Ann Wagstaff, a poet who has brought to herself considerable honor and to the people who read her poems joy and enrichment of life, was born in Salt Lake City August 9, 1900. She obtained her education in the public schools of Salt Lake, the Salt Lake High School, and later in the University of Utah. She left the University of Utah to take a business course and for a number of years was serving the business world. At odd moments in her life she found time to write poetry. When just a tiny girl she took, she says, "immeasurable delight" in competing in poetry contests and the like. This competitive activity won for her buttons, badges, and small monetary prizes, all of which sent her "winging to the Seventh Heaven." Sensitive to joys and sorrows, she spent "many childhood hours plunged into darkest depths over some imagined hurt which a 'thoroughly normal' child would have utterly overlooked." Painful as these hours were to her, she realizes, as many other artists have realized, that of her sensitive emotions her poetry is born. To use her own words, she says, "I attribute that ability to feel as wholly responsible for my first gropings for expression. Not for just a passing whim, surely, did God imbue me with highly sensitized emotions. Consequently, on those rare occasions when 'inspiration' really comes, expressing the feeling in verse comes as easily as the unfolding of a flower. Writing, for me, when inspired, requires no striving."
564 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
Since leaving school our author has taken several courses in the construction of poetry—endeavoring to master technique and the forms and beauty of poems written by the old masters. In addition to all of the local papers, her verse has appeared in The New York Times, The San Francisco Examiner, The Long Beach Telegram, The Chicago Daily News. In standard periodicals such as: Good Housekeeping, The Delineator, College Humor, Love Story Magazine, Motion Picture Magazine, Vogue, St. Nicholas, and in many poetry journals, The Lariat, Lyric West, Palms, etc. Gladys Ann Wagstaff was married to Earl William Pinney August 18, 1926. She has a daughter born April 10, 1928. The Lilac appealed to Miss Wagstaff. As a result we have "Lilac-Time," which we include.
LILAC-TIME
Tonight, My garden is a place of rapturous delight, For every blossom-laden lilac bush Lifts tapered, scented fingers To the far stars! A young, May moon, Caught like a silvered, slim canoe In the topmost branches of a tall birch, Gives to each fragrant, flowering tree A shadow lovelier than itself!
Tonight, There is a soft stir of something glad And gently gay in the sweet stillness

Odorous blooms of phantom purple breathe Into the mauve, suede shadows by the wall An aromatic scent. White pebbles in the path Gleam mistily. Two scarlet tulips are Romancing gypsies in the moon's pale light!
Tonight, The lilac branches sway small, incensed urns— My garden is a place of mystical delight

"Enchantment," which we include, breathes the charm of April days.
ENCHANTMENT
One whole, green-gold, enchanted April day, In gay abandonment I threw away. All day, not one thing useful did I do, Just dreamt the blossom-scented hours through.
I found a hillock, low and warm with grass, And lay and watched the winged, wild things pass;
GUIDE LESSONS FOR DECEMBER 565
I listened to
the thrill in a bird's call And saw a shower of cherry petals fall. A shy wind from out of woodland spaces Brought violet fragrance from mossy places. And the April mist in the springtime sky Gold-powdered the clouds as they drifted by. Life and its problems were all lost to me, I saw only loveliness—lazily— Green boughs, gold sky, and lilting, wild bird call, And I, enchanted—glad—and that was all! In the nature group we include also "Lake Mary." This lake has appealed to a number of our Utah painters. We are delighted to have it make appeal to one of our Utah poets. LAKE Mary Poised like a jewel in a crown of pines, Worn on the brow of earth, Emerald green 'neath the noonday sun, Rose-gray at the day's chill birth. Calm, when the moon leaps up from the crags To the sky's starlit pathway, shimmering, Touching with wave-lips the shadowy forms Of the mirrored pines' silvered glimmering. But reaching out for the sheltering shore When the wild-winged things at the morn Cry challenge—and small things hide away And wave lips from pine shadows are torn! Love songs appeal to our auther rather frequently. A very outstanding poem is "A Love Song," after the Chinese, which we include. A Love Sone (After the Chinese) In the golden morning I walk down by the river side, A thousand silver butterflies cling to the water flowers And the lacquered petals of the lilies open in shy delight. In my enchantment I see strange flowers that are like thy face And the sound of the water is like the whispering of thy voice, And the sound of the wind in the marshes is thy voice, calling. Thou art tall among thy kind, as the water willows, Tall as the green rushes and luscious as the Springtime; Thine eyes are as the twilight over a summer sea And thy lips are as the peach blossom, flower pink. Thy breath is as the perfume of my garden— I dream—I dream amidst invisible fragrances. * * * 566 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE In the cool of the evening I walk beside the lake, I walk in solitude and regard disconsolately the images— The shadowy images of flowers and reeds in the still water. There is the delicate promise of Springtime in the silence, But I am apart from the Springtime—for I am old. I am as old as the idol of Lo Han Dung upon the Emeporor's palaces, In my desolation I see not the pale stars in the violet sky, I see only the grace of thy body as the willows Sway. Afar the voices of the flower girls are singing in delight, Their hands, lotus drenched, weave the song as they sing; Their tiny, scarlet feet dance upon innumerable petals, And thou, who should now walk beside me—art among them. A poem published in the Ladies' Home Journal in 1925 entitled "To the Diva Mother" will find quick response in the hearts of all who read it. It was written to Madame Ernestine SchumannHeink, during her concert given for the Disabled Veterans of the World War, in Salt Lake City, June 23, 1924. To The Diva Mother I was one in that great throng Of yesterday, Filling the vast tabernacle With a surge of patriotic memories; And I stood between two veterans Blinded—both, And heard you sing. While all the tears within my being Swelled into a sob against my throat As the first note of "Taps" Slips from your lips— Sweet Touching to life A thousand poignant memories And made them live again Within the breasts Of those two buddies. I closed my eyes And stood there—blinded, too * * * Then, leaning close, That scarred and aching "Vet" Of the World War— With tears upon his wounded face Said brokenly: "God! Ain't she great!" GUIDE LESSONS FOR DECEMBER 567 We published "Those Yonder Hills" in the Relief Society Magazine for June, 1927. The author furnishes us with this note concerning that poem. "The mountains written of are the Wasatch range of eastern Utah. In early Spring they appear as though great patches of snow has remained from the winter months. Snow, indeed! Waxen, fragrant snow—myriads of pure white Sego Lilies (the State flower of Utah) growing in massed profusion over the hills!
We are closing our group of poems with a Thanksgiving Song.
THANKSGIVING SONG
Not for the great gifts you have given, God, Nor for Your eternal mercy, this song; For these You've known my heart's deep gratitude. But for the little joys the whole day long, The small delights that crowd through every hour, And ecstasies that bless my Everyday— The little, home-sweet joys which mean so much— For these, dear God, in humble thanks I pray:
For the pale, primrose breaking of the dawn, Sifting to gold upon my window sills, Bronzing the elm's last brave and clinging leaves And building burnished castles of the hills;
For the spicy, rain-sweet November air Pressing my eyelids at an open door, And for the early sunlight, hesitant, Offering shy friendliness upon my floor;
For the warmth and comfort of thought-filled rooms And things dear loved—a slender, teakwood stand Upon which sits a smug, green Chinese god, Exhaling incensed breath upon my hand,
His eyes, triumphant and intolerant, Bring memories of a slow, southern sea— Of grave, Chinese philosophy which says: "Love lives, endures through all Eternity, Life is but a jest for idle lovers * * * "
Beside a favorite book, a bowl of blue Brimming with gold-lipped, fringed chrysanthemums; And dusk—within this room—the soft mauve hue Of twilight creeping down against the hills, And starlight loveliness when day is done— The hushed serenity. For these, dear God! For these—and for the smile of my loved one!
What we enjoy particularly about Gladys Ann Wagstaff's poems is her ability to make clear the lovely picture her mind
568 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
conceives through tender, colorful words. There is a gentle sweetness in all she writes that is refreshing and refining to the soul.
RUTH HARWOOD
Ruth Harwood is the daughter of J. T. Harwood, the well-known Utah painter and Harriet Richards Harwood. She tells us that it is not surprising that she should have a taste for sketching and drawing because of her father's recognized talent and the fact that her mother, too, was gifted in this line. That her mother was gifted in sketching should not be a surprise to our readers for Ruth Harwood's mother is of the same family as Lee Greene Richards, the well known portrait painter of Utah. In the December, 1927, issue of The School Arts Magazine Miss Harwood has given us a unique statement of her life which we include.
"I believe that fortune has smiled on me doubly in making it possible for me to earn the necessary bread and meat of life at one art while the other can be kept sacred and undisturbed by any grind of existence.
"As my father and mother were artistic, the desire to draw came both hereditarily and environmentally but that more precious spark of poetry came unexpectedly and has cast a secret glamor over the world ever since.
"Lyrics do not flow as readily to the happy heart as to the wistful and so in more prosaic hours one branches into long narrative poems, and short stories and even embryo novels.
"Then there are drawings, decorative designs with beautiful dancing figures illustrating poetry themes, to be made. There is a whole world of these fancies to be born yet, but some day, perhaps, the workmanship will come.
"The days go on, working, living, and once in a while there is a red-letter day. It was such a day when the word first came that the annual poetry prize of the University of Utah had been given to me—just for the happy songs I had woven together for myself. That was the first time my songs had ever reached out and brought me happiness.
"There was another such day when there came word that a student in the art department of the University of California had won the yearly poetry prize. So many coveted friends came to me on the wake of that success, and then, my mother was alive to be happy too.
"Then there was a turbulent year filled with romance and my first taste of death. I dressed one day in a black shroud, marched around with many others in a sweltering heat and came home with M. A. In art from the University of California. That was the first time my mother was not there to rejoice too, but my father was there, kind and patient, trying to take the place of both.
GUIDE LESSONS FOR DECEMBER 569
"A wonderful red-letter day when a librarian friend showed me a book from London of a hundred best poems of the year from English and American writers and there was my name and one of my poems. Lesser red-letter days scattered along with poems and drawings and articles appearing here and there in magazines! Always working eagerly, impulsively and dreaming of bigger things!
"This summer another shining day with word that the prize for the best sonnet on Browning from the Poetry Society of America was for me. I immediately burst into a dozen more sonnets.
"You ask my hobby. My profession is art, my ambition writing, so perhaps my little house is the hobby. I love it that much. If it looked the way I would want, it would have arches and a swooping roof and a host of modern conveniences inside as I do not crave domestic pursuits.
"But the supreme view! Fifteen feet of window toward the bay and at night Berkeley, and Oakland and Richmond twinkling below as far as the eye can see * * * then the black water and the soft glory of San Francisco in the distance and over all a dome of stars, except when the fog creeps in and wraps its fingers around the hilltop.
"My father, one of Utah's finest artists and art director of its state University, has been such a blessing in reclaiming the small garden spot from the wild brush and rabbits that skip about ready for any chance green that may be struggling for existence.
"Two years now I have been away teaching art, one as supervisor of art in the New Mexico State Teacher's College and one as design instructor in the University of Utah. That is a long time to be away from California and what joy it will be to be back on the hilltop with my friend and my work and my poet self."
This summer Miss Harwood has been abroad with her father, an experience which will be enriching to one gifted as she is gifted. She tells us she makes her living through her sketching and that writing poetry is a diversion that feeds her soul. As she feeds her own soul so does she feed the souls of others. A poem known as "The Shoe Factory" (Song of the Knot-Tyer) has proved to be the most popular of Miss Harwood's poems. It is a poem that dignifies manual labor. Consequently we hail it with pleasure. It was published first in "Poetry," and was selected by an English anthologist for publication in his volume, "The Best Poems of 1922." It was conceived after a visit to a shoe factory by a psychology class for the purpose of investigating some phases of mental reaction. It may be found in Stevenson's Home Book of Verse—and Cooper's Poems of Youth.
THE SHOE FACTORY (Song of the Knot-Tyer)
They told me When I came That this would be drudgery, Always the same Things over and over Day after day— The swift movement In the same small way.
Pick up, Place, Push, And it's tied, Take off, Cut, And put It aside.
Over and over, In rhythmical beat— Some say it is drudgery, But to me it is sweet.
Pick up, Place, Push, And it's tied, Outdoors The sky Is so blue And so wide!
It's a joyous song Going steadily on, Marching in measures Till the day is gone.
Pick up, Place, Push, And it's tied, Soon end Of day Will bring him To my side.
Oh, I love the measures Singing on so fast, Speeding happy hours Till he comes at last!
570 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
GUIDE LESSONS FOR DECEMBER 571
Among Miss Harwood's numerous poems is one entitled "Silver Morning," which we feel sure will appeal to our readers.
SILVER MORNING
God has dipped this morning In a silver pool, And left it iridescent, Glistening and cool.
All the sky is silver, And the hills between Veil their verdant beauty With a silver sheen.
Even buds are silver On the waking trees, And the larks discover Silver melodies.
And the rippling river Croons a silver song To the sentient willows As it purls along.
And the shining morning That must pass so soon Leaves a silver echo In my lilting tune.
The Acacia seems to have made very special appeal to Miss Harwood as she writes a poem entitled "Acacia Rapture."
ACACIA RAPTURE
It matters not how many years Of waking springs I see, Each fresh time there appears Acacia with its wealth of golden filigree I stand before it, rapture mad, As to some deity.
I fancy that the fervent earth Has climbed all year to this, And that acacias in their worth Are to her as the utmost kiss.
It matters not how many years The gold acacias break, They make me mad and glad to tears, And turn me robber for their sake.
572 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
She refers to California in a poem called "Yearning" which we include.
YEARNING
O to be in California in the spring! While torpid earth is held in winter shrouds, To see her wreathe herself in pearly clouds And break into a song of burgeoning!
And O, to watch the barren hills unfold; First comes the mossy carpeting of green, Fog-misted, sometimes, to a silver sheen, And then to watch them flare to mauve and gold!
And O, to see acacias burst in bloom, Like clustered sunshine billowing the trees, To hear the droning music of the bees, And scent the air weighed heavy with perfume!
To think she's showing now her pageantry In all the glory of spring's verdant dress And flinging, open-armed, her loveliness! To think of spring! * * * And I not there to see!
Also a poem entitled
PASTEL
To keep this evening's loveliness I seek, This sunset hour in my garden spent, Among my iris where each purple cheek Of velvet softness lulls me with content.
A hush of happiness has seemed to fall About my garden. Bloom and brush and tree Have felt the magic touch transforming all Into a misty quiet harmony.
O, sweet, my garden lit with sunset rose! O, soft, the blossoms folding close for sleep! O, frail, my song that strives before it goes This evening's pastel loveliness to keep!
Her poem entitled "Vagabond Song" carries in its lines the abandoned joy of one who really lives close to nature.
VAGABOND SONG
Because I have so few of goodly things That money brings, perchance the world is bold To scoff at me, because in lacking gold, I could not hope to know the joy life brings.
But O! I have a heart that gaily sings, And feet that swiftly dance, and wealth untold, For I have eyes to catch and soul to hold The gold of sunsets and the jewels of springs.
GUIDE LESSONS FOR DECEMBER 573
And I find gems in all the stars that shine; And dazzling diamonds strung on spider's lace; And glistening silver on the water's face; And full red rubies sparkling on the vine.

I doubt if you, in any gilded place, Feel richer in your wealth than I in mine!
A poem entitled "Poetry Magic" is interesting because it really reveals something of the way in which the poet works.
POETRY MAGIC
My poetry Is like a magic wizardry. For with deft hands I pluck a few Glad-chosen words, And build for me A rainbow tinted bridge; And leave the sentient solemn earth, And dance down my fairy bridge, And find some secret glowing place Of dream-lit wonders; And wander there, And thrill and sing, And twine dream flowers in my hair, And dance and fling My carefree arms into the air.
And so—when suddenly You speak to me, You must be patient Until I can return from wanderings A thousand worlds away.
QUESTIONS AND PROBLEMS
1. Which one of the authors uses one talent to earn a living and the other for self-expression?
2. Name the flowers that the two poets we are studying mention in their poetry.
3. Tell the circumstances under which a poem was born in the Salt Lake Tabernacle.
4. Repeat the tribute to the singer made by one of the disabled veterans.
5. What do you know about the enlistment of the sons of this singer in the World War?
6. Which poem refers to the state flower as it blooms on the mountain side? Repeat the lines that refer to the flower.
574 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
LESSON IV Social Service (Fourth Week in December)
THE CHILD STUDY COURSE
Lesson 9. Nervous and Mental Hygiene in Children.
(Based on Chapter X. The Child: His Nature and His Needs)
The last lesson—The Relation of Nutrition to Mental Development—will have convinced the reader of the general importance of mental hygiene in the life of the child. The mental hygiene movement is one of the most recent and in many ways the most important developments in the fields of psychology and education during the past twenty years. Dr. William A. White, the author of this well-written chapter, is one of the outstanding mental hygienists (sometimes called psychiatrists) in America. He is at present superintendent of the government hospital for the insane at Washington, D. C.
A. Some Principles of Mental Hygiene
Perhaps the best way to get the "meat" out of the present lesson is for the reader (and class-leader too) to select from Dr. White's chapter principles such as the following:
"Children are not just small adults." (p. 195.) "Then again, the child is not an isolated being." (p. 195.) "The whole developmental period of childhood has these two aims: the maximum unfoldment of the individual possibilities consistent with the necessary degrees of conformity to social standards." (p. 196.) "Strength of character, just like muscular strength, is developed by overcoming difficulties, not by following the path of least resistance." (p. 198.) "The impetus and initiative must come from within the child * * *" (p. 200.) "Every exaggerated character trait is evidence of an unbalanced personality make-up and is evidence also of the existence of the opposite trait." (p. 201.)
To Dr. White's excellent list of mental hygiene principles, we add a few of our own, as follows:
1. Most mental handicaps are preventable.
2. Activity is the normal characteristic of childhood; physical and mental inactivity are pathological.
3. The differences between personalities are so great as to make it dangerous to prescribe the same treatment for all individuals.
4. Mental poise is facilitated by an alternating program of work, rest, and play.
5. Almost all persons have some degree of inferiority-feeling. Compensations for actual or imagined inferiority are quite
GUIDE LESSONS FOR DECEMBER 575
normal. The problem of child guidance is therefore one of facilitating appropriate compensations.
6. Every child and grown-up person should experience success or superiority in some field or situation, with sufficient frequency to prevent the development of an inferiority-complex.
7. All children and grown-ups normally demand a confidante, i. e., some understanding person who will listen without moralizing.
8. Energies, impulses, etc., cannot be suppressed. They may, however, be sublimated, i. e., guided to expression on higher planes.
9. Many personality problems are overcome when the handicapped person is able, through the assistance of others, to objectify his own problems, i. e., to analyze his own difficulty as though it were the problem of another.
10. Punishment is a dubious method of dealing with children's conduct problems. The following suggestions of Felix Adler are well worth contemplating in this connection:
a. Never punish in anger. b. Distinguish between the child and the fault. c. Do not "lecture" children. d. Do not threaten them. e. While insisting upon obedience, demand nothing which is unreasonable. f. Do not employ corporal punishment; it tends to brutalize the child, to break his spirit, and to weaken his sense of shame.
QUESTIONS
1. Why is mental health more important than physical health?
2. How do you explain the increasing interest in mental hygiene?
3. What does Dr. White mean by the phrase (p. 197) "reality may be overwhelming?"
4. What is a feeling of inferiority? What are its causes? What types of inferiority feeling (popularly called "complexes") have you observed in children and adults? How should a child with an inferiority feeling be dealt with in his home and in the school?
5. How are "phantasy" related to inferiority feelings?
6. Is wholesome personality in a child as important as his mastery of the three R's? Then why do we fail to emphasize and train for it in our schools?
B. A Good Book for Parents
There has been so much written on mental hygiene that is either over-technical or unsound that we are giving a short review of "incorrigibility" and "bad habits"
576 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
or synopsis of a recent book which we can safely recommend for further reading by the parent with an especially difficult problem-child. The book is written by Dr. Erwin Wexberg, and is called Your Nervous Child: A Guide for Parents and Teachers (New York: Albert & Charles Boni, 178 pp., $1.75.)
Dr. Wexberg speaks as a physician. He had a wide experience with children's cases in Vienna, where he was associated with the famous Dr. Alfred Adler. The book comprises three well-rounded chapters on the symptoms, causes, and treatment of nervousness in children. While the manifestations of nervousness may take the form of disturbances of nutrition and urination, night terrors, stuttering, masturbation, lying, etc., the basic condition is that of "a child who has lost courage to fight his way through, or is struggling along the wrong road."
Chief among the causes of nervousness in children, Wexberg lists: The Feeling of Inferiority, The Fatherless Boy, The Youngest Child, The Only Child, Sex, The Spoiled Child, Egoism of Parents, Vain Mothers. With almost uncanny insight he explains how bodily infirmities (such as hare-lip, prominent ears, protracted sickliness) strengthen the feeling of inferiority and cause the child to be nervous. It is not too much to say that the author's discussion of sex as a cause of nervousness and psychic homo-sexuality, is the best and most straight-forward thing anywhere in print accessible to the layman.
The chief prophylaxis and cure for nervousness in children (except, of course, where it is due to organic causes) Wexberg insists is "correct" education, the task of which is "to do everything that can help a child become an independent and courageous man * * * ready and prepared to adapt himself to the community to which he belongs, and to render his best service where he has chosen to serve." Independence and courage are the keynotes of this "correct" education. The author is averse to marks and reports, yet he would "blame mildly and praise in a friendly fashion." He adduces new arguments against all forms of punishment and shows the futility of moralizing. He concludes his effective plea for freedom and the early psychological weaning of the child with the rather startling statement that "children should be treated as adults, not as children."
There is only one important point upon which we differ with Dr. Wexberg and that is in regard to his assumption that only the physician is competent to deal with these common (functional) forms of nervousness in children. If parents and teachers cannot sooner or later learn to deal with most of these difficulties themselves, then progress under our system of family life is impossible. Such intelligent understanding of these matters on the part of the average parent, is, after all, the real reason for the parental movement.
CONTENTS
Aspens of Timpanogos............Frontispiece Disarm...........Minnie Johnson Hardy 579 Ina Coolbrith...............Kate Thomas 580 Thanksgiving......Mrs. Merling D. Clyde 585 Mother's "Outside" Interest.............Katharine C. McKay 586 Editorial—The Red Cross to the Fore.... 595 Utah Stake Observes Fiftieth Anniversary................................ 596 Our Educational World............. 597 Why Make a Budget?..........Jean Cox 598 Marilie's Ghost......Helen Kimball Orgill 604 Gratitude.............Julia Collard Baker 609 Pioneers..................Lais V. Hales 610 Pastoral...................Carrie Tanner 611 Notes from the Field..Amy Brown Lyman 612 Guide Lessons for January— Every Day Ethics and Practical Religion.................. 616 Work and Business Literature..............
Social Service........................ Utah Autumn...............Josephine G. Moench 632 A Common Prayer........May E. Lillie 633
Organ of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints Room 20 Bishop's Bldg. Salt Lake City, Utah $1.00 a Year—Single Copy, 10c Foreign, $1.25 a Year—15c Single Copy Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah Phone Wasatch 3123
VOL. XV NOVEMBER, 1928 NO. 11
Courtesy of Dr. Walter Cottam ASPENS OF TIMPANOGOS
THE Relief Society Magazine VOL. XV NOVEMBER,
1928 NO. 11 el Courtesy of Dr. Walter Cottam ASPENS OF TIMPANOGOS THE Relief Society Magazine VoL. XV NOVEMBER, 1928 No. 11 Disarm By Minnie Johnson Hardy Spring has come to the desert, and yucca blossoms so white, Waxen and fair and fragrant, bloom in the morning light; A wood-dove coos in the thicket; but what is this Voice I hear? As the soft wind stirs the chaparral, it comes to me sweet and clear. It comes from the graves of dear ones, who wore the blue and the gray, Where flowers and flags are drooping, in loving memory today. It comes from the restless ocean, that cradle so blue and deep, Where many a brave young sailor has gone to his last, long sleep. From the graves of our splendid heroes, who, by some sad mischance, Have folded their hands forever, '"SSomewhere on the fields of France." The red poppies bloom in'Flanders, but what do the white crosses spell? Let your heart speak, dear mother! You know full well—too well. In honor today of our heroes, our flags now float at half-mast; We have closed a chapter in history, on a sad mistaken past. "O nations of Earth, awaken, be not slaves to war's wild alarm," 'Tis the voice of our cherished dear ones—''Peace—Disarm— Disarm." "Peace, peace on earth, O my brothers; it is our dear Father's will; Hear ye not his voice commanding," "My children, ye shall not kill?" "Cease making men into soldiers, cease making guns to destroy, Cease building monsters-of-the-deep to slay your neighbor's boy." A mockingbird sings in the chaparral, but still on the wind that Voice, "Let Brotherhood rule in the future, Live, Love; In peace rejoice." It echoes from city to village, from palace to cottage and farm; "Let not our sacrifice be in vain, Peace—Disarm—Disarm." Ina Coolbrith By Kate Thomas We are pleased to present to our readers a sketch of the life of Ina Coolbrith, a pioneer of the west and a niece of the Prophet Joseph. Elder Joseph Fielding Smith, Church Historian, tells us that his father kept up a correspondence with the author during his life and that the family has been aware of her literary achievements for many years.—Editor's Note. At the death of Ina Coolbrith, "the poet-laureate of California," a friend of hers told me that she came of Mormon parentage, but never spoke of it. However, the Los Angeles Times of March the seventh came out with the following: "Poetess' Past Uncovered. Ina Coolbrith Revealed as Mormon Leader's Niece, Pioneer of West, and Jack London's Mentor. "Robert H. Davis, in a copyrighted article in the New York Sun today, lifts the veil surrounding the early life of the late Ina Donna Coolbrith, poetess, and reveals her as a heroine of the Overland Trail, the niece of the founder of the Mormon religion and the "literary mother" of Jack London. "Ina Coolbrith died February 29, 1928, in Berkeley, California, at 86 years of age, regarded as one of the most noted poets of the West and a contemporary of Bret Harte, Mark Twain, Joaquin Miller, Prentice Mulford, Louis Agassiz and others who contributed to the literature of the nineteenth céntury. "On her arrival in San Francisco soon after the close of the Civil War, Davis says she became an associate of Harte in the editorship of the Overland Monthly. Her poems flamed through its pages, and her personality made her queen of Russian Hill, San Francisco's Mount Olympus. From 1874 to 1893 she was at the head of the public library at Oakland. "Through the instrumentality of one who was close to Ina Coolbrith, Davis offers the story of her genesis. She was born in Illinois, March 10, 1841, the daughter of Don Carlos Smith, a brothet of Joseph Smith the prophet, founder of Mormonism. And Agnes Coolbrith. "The family history became disrupted with the death. ™: her father and two uncles, who were slain by a mob June 27, 1844, in Carthage jail, Hancock county, Illinois. There are no available records as to what happened to her two sisters. "In the mid-Fifties Ina and her mother, who had remarried, left Illinois and crossed the plains over the Old Overland Trail with James Beckwith, Indian scout, arriving at Salt Lake when Ina still was in her teens. INA COOLBRITH 581 She vigorously opposed the polygamy of the Mormon colony, and a few years later went with her mother to Los Angeles, where she began her education as Ina Donna Coolbrith, taking the maiden. Name of her mother. She remained in Southern California until well into her twenties, turning a deaf ear to all offers of marriage. "In San Francisco she was elected as the only woman member of the Bohemian Club, and twenty different clubs and societies carried her in their 'memberships. In 1915 the poet laureateship of the state of California was conferred on her by the Governor. "While she was in the West, Davis says, Jack London came to her a ragged, barefoot newsboy and asked what she considered it best for him to read. She shaped his career. "She was talent's confessor," Davis continues, "the inspiration of youth, the kindly guide to all beginners, but none shared the secret of her girlhood." This sounded so near to home that I made inquiries about her and learned that she was much the type of the pioneer mother of Utah, kind, wholesome, old-fashioned, and motherly, with an intense love of the territory she had chosen as her abiding place, together with a strong desire to magnify the talents God had given her. Had she lived till March the tenth, she would have been eighty-seven years old; and her friends, west and east were planning a celebration. It made me think of "Aunt Em" and the good times held upon her honored birthday. Miss Coolbrith had been ill for several months; and while her death was not a surprise, it was a real sorrow to many people. She was the connecting link between the old California literary group and those of the modern day. "She belonged," stated one of the daily papers, "among the first picturesque group of pioneers, who came to the state in covered wagons. She came with her parents from Springfield, Illinois, in the days when the gold lure was drawing thousands across the plains." For years she was a librarian in Oakland, then was chosen librarian to the Mercantile and Bohemian Club libraries in San Francisco. At her home in San Francisco she became the center of a coterie of literary people, chief among them being Mark Twain, Bret Harte, Joaquin Miller, and Robert Louis Stevenson. The locality was spoken of by wits as the "poet's corner." During this period she published her first book, A Perfect Day and Other Poems. It is said that as a very young child she formed the idea of proclaiming the beauties of California in verse. She was bedecked with the flowers of her adopted native state when a passing Mexican called attention to her by calling out, "Look at the pretty little Americano!" so the story goes. The prettiness, in her simple mind, came from her decorations, and she determined then to make them known to everybody. She was locally famed as a poet, and her second book, Songs From the Golden Gate,
582 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
brought her much attention from people who were watching the growth of the then crude Pacific coast; presently she was referred to as the "Sappho of the West." This success induced her to go to New York, but she was not at home there and was very glad to return to California. She lived in various California towns and was in touch with phases of California from the Indian and Spanish population to the mining camps. Her best poems seem to have been written in Oakland. At the time of her death she was a resident of Berkeley. Her last poem, "The Vision of St. Francis," was printed in northern California newspapers last November. Laureateship was bestowed upon her by the governor through the legislature in 1919; "loved, laurel-crowned poetess of California." She has lived in the golden state almost eighty years. She was six when "dogged by Indians and harassed by hunger the little family reached California by way of Beckwith pass, named after the famous scout, Jim Beckwith, who piloted Miss Coolbrith's party." Eighty years within its borders! No wonder she wrote:
CALIFORNIA
Upon my fresh green sods No king has walked to curse and desolate; But in the valleys freedom sits and sings, And on the heights above; Upon her boughs the leaves of olive boughs, And in her arms a dove; And the great hills are pure, undesecrate, White with their snows untrod, And mighty with the presence of their God!
There was nothing profound in her verse. She was a rhythmical, light, lyric poet, as notice:
MEADOW LARKS
Sweet, sweet, sweet! O happy that I am! Listen to the meadow larks across the fields that sing! Sweet, sweet, sweet! O subtle breath of balm, O winds that blow, O buds that grow, O rapture of the spring!
Sweet, sweet, sweet! O happy world that is! Dear heart, I hear across the fields my mating pipe and call. Sweet, sweet, sweet! O world so full of bliss— For life is love, the world is love, and love is over all.
Nothing could be simpler. It is the rhythm that attracts. Note it also in:
WEST WINDS
I would you might sing me, summer wind, A song of a little chamber! Sing soft, sing low, how the roses grow, And the starry jasmines clamber, Through emerald rifts how the moonlight drifts, And the sunlight's mellow amber.
Sing of a hand in the fluttering leaves, Like a wee white bird in its nest; Of a white hand twined in the leaves to find A bloom for the fair young breast; Sing of my love, my little love, My snow-white dove in her nest, As she looks through the fragrant jasmine leaves Into the wasting nest.
Tenderly, tenderly, summer wind, With murmurous winds caresses, O wind of the south to her beautiful mouth Do you cling with your balmy kisses? Flutter and float o'er the white, white throat, And ruffle the golden tresses.
"The long year groweth from green to gold," Saith the song of the willow tree: "My tresses cover, my roots unfold," O summer wind sing it to me! Lorn and dreary, sad and dreary, As lovers that parted be— But sweet as the grace of a fair young face I never again may see.
And for those who have enjoyed the literary lessons there is a distinct pleasurable truth in the last stanza of:
SUMMER PAST
Now the summer is all over! We have wandered through the clover, We have plucked in wood and lea Bluebell and anemone. We were children of the sun, Very brown to look upon; We were stained, hands and lips, With the berries' juicy tips.
* 
o 
INA COOLBRITH 583
584 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
Now the merry days are over! Woodland tenants seek the cover, And the swallow leaves again For his castle nests in Spain.
Shut the door and close the blind: We shall have the bitter wind, We shall have the dreary rain Striving, driving at the pane.
Send the ruddy firelight higher, Draw your easy-chair yet nigher, Through the winter bleak and chill We may have our summer still.
Here are poems we may read, Pleasant fancies to our need; Ah, eternal summer-time Dwells within the poet's rhyme!
All the birds' sweet melodies Linger in these songs of his, And the blossoms of all ages Wait their fragrance from his pages.
"In the light of today's criticisms and preferences," says an Oakland Tribune editorial, "it may be said that there are many followers of poetry who do not appreciate the values in that which Miss Coolbrith wrote. * * * She was an artist of high ideals, a writer who would not stoop for effects, and one who, with her loved memories and associations, clung fondly to the style and manners of that time in which she was so conspicuous a figure. Not only as a poetess was Miss Coolbrith loved. She had the gifts and graces to inspire others and to her came many who were later famous. * * * When the Bohemian Club of San Francisco departed from all precedent and made her its only woman member, it did so to honor the artist and friend of artists. Miss Coolbrith was the proud champion of pure, classic art, and a generous benefactor to youth seeking to express itself in any worthy way.
"There are older people in the Eastbay who remember her as the rarely beautiful young woman who presided at the Oakland library, where she directed young reading with a wisdom and friendliness which made a lasting impression. To the poetry of the West and the Nation she made a contribution which was recognized on two continents, and in the hearts of her friends she dwelt secure."
INA COOLBRITH 585
The San Francisco Examiner comments: "Wherever Ina Donna Coolbrith sat, in the company of men and women of her day, she was the center of attention. With the white scarf over her gray hair in these later years, she suggested somewhat the pictures of Queen Victoria; but Ina Coolbrith, even in illness, left the impression of vigor. Her humor and appreciation remained alert; her voice was deep and strong; her faculties did not desert. She was ever constructive and helpful. All through her years she was a source of inspiration to others."
Ina Coolbrith had met Whittier, Longfellow, Lowell and others of the earlier day poets. Of the later, Edwin Markham and George Sterling were her friends. On one of her birthdays not many years back, one of her best friends and warmest admirers, no less than "the Poet of the Sierras," Joaquin Miller, was asked to make a poem about her. His reply was, "I am not equal to doing her halfway justice. Her whole life has been a poem, a sweet pathetic poem." It makes one wonder just what the pathos might have been. But I was told by one who seemed to know that Ina Coolbrith, through her intense love for children, had given to certain children of others her whole heart and a devoted care and had reaped the usual reward of the unselfish by receiving in return small gratitude and little love. So wags the world.
Thanksgiving By Mrs. Merling D. Clyde
There's thankfulness within our hearts That those we love are near; The face of friends; the kindly word; The voice; the smiles that cheer.
We're thankful for enough to eat; A place to keep us warm; The knowledge that a Higher Power Will keep us safe from harm.
We're grateful for the sunshine bright, And for the winter snow; For rain, and trees; and for the flowers; For each dear day we know.
Mother's "Outside Interest" By Katharine C. McKay
Margaret Morrill read the editorial twice and then hardly grasped its meaning. It had something to do with women having an interest apart from the home. It did not appeal to her. She read little, anyway, and then only the women's page in Farm Journals or articles about poultry. Tonight being Sunday night and she a firm believer in keeping the Sabbath properly, she could not knit, darn, or sew, as was her custom. It would soon be nine o'clock and her bed time. With a sigh she laid the magazine down and looked about her. Tom and Mary, home from school over the week-end, were seated on the davenport, Tom listlessly turning cards, endeavoring to amuse himself with solitaire, Mary deep in a novel she had brought home with her. She knew they were both bored. Somehow they never seemed so very happy at home any more. During the first two years at school they had come home regularly every week-end. This year their visits had been very few, dances and parties offering excuse to stay in town. Tom Senior went in often, too, and went shopping with them or to theaters; but she, with her milk, chickens and turkeys to care for, could never accept their invitations. It made Mary quite out of patience. "Why on earth does Father keep a hired man when you do all the work? What's Jim good for anyway, if not to tend chickens and turkeys? And Annie is as good help as you could find anywhere." Tom would add, "Let up a little, Mom, and enjoy life. We only live once." And Ethel, the married daughter living in town, urged her, too, to take things easier. None of them seemed to understand that tending a garden, making butter and watching the growth of her fowls was her life—that she would be lost without her farm tasks. She glanced at her husband. He, clad in a silk dressing gown and slippers, Mary's idea of the proper way to dress for the evening, was sunk deep in a big leather chair, thoroughly enjoying his paper. She was sitting in an old rocker, an eye-sore, Mary called it, that was a remnant of less prosperous days. A faded cushion covered the board seat, a velvet tidy embroidered by her mother in the long ago, adorned the back. It was not very comfortable, but she was used to it; and besides, after she had done the supper dishes and tidied up the kitchen, it was practically bed time and foolish to think of getting comfortable. These new chairs, like the other new furnishings that Father and the children had insisted upon, while very elegant, were not restful to her. She was afraid of spoiling the upholstery with her rough
MOTHER'S "OUTSIDE" INTEREST 587
farm clothing, and could never rest her feet in comfort on the lustrous rugs for fear she would leave a trace of the hen-yard. The bright shining kitchen with its washable linoleum and rag rugs was more to her liking. No one was paying any attention to her; she might as well retire but she hated to just get up and leave without a word, so she ventured, "Them turkeys—"
"Those turkeys." Son and daughter spoke in concert, but neither looked up.
"Those turkeys," she corrected meekly, "that I bought from Ambrose ain't—"
"Aren't," they chorused again.
"Aren't what he made 'em out to be. I'm glad I didn't give him what he asked. They're worth what I did give, but I wont make much on them. Rate about third class, I imagine." She ceased and waited for a comment from one of them. There was no reply. After a moment Tom laid down his cards. "You're a good bargainer, Mom. If anyone could get the best of you it would be old Ambrose, and you can beat him. Are turkeys pretty high this year?"
"Will be by Christmas," his mother answered quietly. He was only trying to be polite. She knew that no one but her had the slightest interest in either old Ambrose or the turkeys. In fact Mary had threatened to wring the necks of the entire turkey flock, they gave her such a pain. An idle threat, as Mary could not be hired to go near a turkey unless it was picked, stuffed and roasted. Tom Senior, feeling a little ashamed that his son should show such manners, folded his paper and sat up attentively. "I didn't quite hear what you said, Margaret. Did Ambrose cheat you?"
"No, but I didn't make anything, either." Not much encouragement there. "How do you want that new hen-house fixed? I forgot all about it, but I'll tell Jim in the morning."
"I told him a week ago and it's all done now." Father, chagrined, resumed his paper. Tom, relieved of having to take part in an uninteresting conversation, spread the cards in front of him; so Margaret reached for her magazine. After all there might be something in that editorial—she'd think it over. With a quiet goodnight she took it to her room. Tom and the children would not retire for hours. After his perusal of the paper he always went through their financial problems with them, discussing their school and entertainment, even their clothes. She should have done that at least, but Father handled the funds
588 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
and Mary wound him around her finger, so she always went to him for everything. Alone in her room, she sat down on the edge of her bed to read the article a third time and see if it was really worth while. The writer, a woman editor, considered it almost a necessity that for her own sake a woman have something to occupy and entertain her besides her home. While her children were little, it was all well and proper to center all interest in the home; but when they entered high school or college, it was Mother's business to look to herself. She cited instances of women who had gone back to school teaching—had become buyers for local stores; one even had studied law. Mother Morrill thought it all over. It was evident that she needed something. She was not contented and pleased with herself, and her husband and children desired her companionship less all the time. She must face the matter squarely. She forced herself to recall an incident that had happened at Ethel's last winter; one which she put entirely out of her thoughts lest it hurt her too keenly. She had been upstairs getting Ethel's baby to sleep and had come down so quietly that her daughters, in conversation in the living room had not heard her. They were evidently discussing the coat she had just purchased. "I'd like, just for once, to drag Mother into a decent store and make her buy something with a little style." It was Mary speaking. "She acts actually afraid of Main Street."
"This coat isn't so bad," Ethel had said, "And as Mother says, it's very good material and will last a life time. Worse luck." Both girls laughed. "Doesn't that make you sick? This good material stuff gets on my nerves—I've heard it so long and so much. Really, Ethel, I believe Mother likes to look like a hick."
"Mary, for shame."
"I can't help it. Sometimes I'm positively ashamed of her; aren't you?—her hands and her hair—and then such awful clothes! She could dress better. I actually feel sorry for Dad when they go anyplace in town together, there's such a contrast."
"You mustn't even think of such all again, Mary. After all she's our mother and—"
Margaret Morrill had not waited for more. Quietly she had gone back upstairs. She told herself, with the good common sense that she possessed, that Father would never be ashamed of her—they had struggled and suffered too much together—and that Mary, when age had made her a little wiser, would get over all this foolishness. So she resolved from that moment to forget it entirely. Now, thinking over this evening's experience and many similar ones, and again using her common sense, she decided that
MOTHER'S "OUTSIDE" INTEREST 589
there must be something wrong with her. She looked at her hands—pretty hands they might have been, but the nails were broken and bruised, and the hands themselves were coarse and rough, covered with scars and deeply lined. She went to her mirror. Her face was not so bad—the complexion so beautiful in her youth had not been hurt by good soap and water, healthful food and sunshine. Her cheeks still possessed the ruddy glow so earnestly desired nowadays, but her hair—it was awful. However that could wait. The thing of importance now was that Mother had decided to have an "outside interest," and henceforth all her efforts must be turned to deciding what that should be. For the next week she read the paper and all the magazines industriously, especially the part concerning women and their work. The first time she asked for a part of the paper Tom Morrill looked up in surprise; but she was so casual, so matter of fact, that he forbore comment. At the end of a week her decision was made; so she spent her time planning how to carry it out. Much to her surprise, the children came home the following week end. Tom Senior brought them and seemed quite proud of his achievement. "I made Tom give up a stag-party and—what was your sacrifice, Mary?"
"Nothing but a luncheon," Mary answered carelessly. "But why, Tom?" Mother asked.
"I'll have to be with the sheep at least a month, so it will be our last time together for a while. Where will you go, Mother, Ethel's or Carrie's?" Both children waited expectantly. Mrs. Morrill hesitated, to enjoy the children's discomfiture. "Carrie's I guess. She's been wanting me for some time." There was positive relief manifested in their faces. "You'll like it at Aunt Carrie's, Mom; she has so many chickens and things," Tom said; and Mary added, "And Ethel's baby is so cross, you'd not enjoy a minute there." Well, that was settled, quickly and easily. Then the letter was sent to Carrie, letting her in on the secret and outlining some of her plan. Carrie was just finishing breakfast and getting the children off to school, hers were still in the "grades," when the letter came. She cried a little as she read it. "I wonder if my children will ever be ashamed of me," she thought, as she watched them, still almost babies, trudging off. "But Maggie will make it all right; she always does—I'll bank on her"; and with a sigh almost envious, she started to gather her dirty dishes. "Your station is Greenfield, Madam," the conductor said, as
590 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
two stations out of town Mrs. Morrill started down the aisle, suitcase in hand. "I forgot something," she replied and brushed by him. Back in the city she went at once to a hotel, a good, clean, reliable one, though not in the most fashionable part of town, and took a room and bath for two weeks. She examined her check book. It showed a goodly sum. All her chicken, egg and turkey money had gone into it, and nothing had ever been taken out. When she had wanted to help, Tom had always said, "No, Mother, that's yours and you might need it some time. We'll have to be lots worse off than this before I'll take a penny of it." So it had grown—she was almost amazed to see how much. Her first plan had been to venture into one of those shops that Mary had wished to "drag" her in and buy clothes suitable to a woman of business; but on second thought she decided she could probably do better if she went looking as she did. Accordingly she set out, the address she sought on a newspaper clipping in her hand. It was on a side street in a most undesirable part of the business section of town. It would have to be moved—but not immediately. Its location would do fine for the present, as there would be no chance of meeting the children. Before a dirty window bearing the sign "Wholesale Poultry" she stopped. There was no sign of life within, but the door gave to her push and she found herself in a large room, barren and untidy. A counter, covered with worn oil-cloth and containing a roll of paper and string, projected to the center near the front. Behind it, along the walls and ceiling, empty hooks were visible; at the rear a space, probably a refrigerating plant, was boxed off. The prospect was not very encouraging. At her entrance a man seated behind the counter, using it as a prop for his feet, had straightened up but did not deign to rise. He watched her with interest as she surveyed the room. At length he spoke, "Can I do anything for you, Madam?"
"I should like a few moments of your time to talk about your business." He looked at her clothes, substantial enough—but—and the worn leather bag she carried, and decided she was a solicitor or canvasser, perhaps a book agent. She drew a chair to the opposite side of the counter and seated herself. Ordinarily he didn't care for this kind of companionship, but he had nothing else to do this morning and she might prove interesting. "Your business is not very good, I imagine," she said, looking around. "Good? It's rotten. I just barely make enough to keep alive and am lucky to do that."
"How much is it worth, do you think?"
MOTHER'S "OUTSIDE" INTEREST 591
The question surprised him. He hesitated before replying but decided she could mean nothing serious. "It ain't worth nothing. I'd sell the whole works for half a dollar."
"I want to buy it." He was stunned for a moment, but instantly his business sense came to the fore. "Business ain't always so bad as this," he said, "I'll make you a good price," and he named what to Mrs. Morrill seemed an immense sum.
"I'll give you just half," she said, "cash."
"Why Ma'am, the property's worth more than that. I can't give it to you."
"I know what the property's worth and the business, you admit, is no good. I'm offering you a fair price and cash. Will you take it?" It was too good an opportunity to lose, and the owner of the Wholesale Poultry Business knew it. "Yes," he said. And so Mrs. Morrill acquired her "outside interest." The days following were exceedingly busy ones. Herself to care for first, Mrs. Morrill visited some of the best shops and put herself in the hands of the capable clerks. They turned out a most satisfactory product. Then one day she ventured into a beauty parlor—for a shampoo and manicure—she told the enquiring attendant and was whisked away to a clean little white curtained alcove. The girl ran her fingers through her long luxurious hair caressingly. "Golly," she said, "You don't see hair like this nowadays. The way you do it no one would dream it was so pretty." It was what Mrs. Morrill was hoping for. "How can I do it?" she asked. "Not so tight. You could have a beautiful natural wave if you'd train it. I'll show you when I get it dry." And so she fluffed and fussed; and Mrs. Morrill went away with combs, pins and nets, well tapered fingernails, light fluffy hair, and a sense of pride and well-being never hers before. She discovered that she would have to make regular visits to markets and farmers, and that necessitated a car. So she purchased a neat little roadster and took lessons in running it. Her shop underwent a complete transformation. She cleaned and scoured, added new furniture, more hooks, and installed a complete modern refrigerating plant to take the place of the unsatisfactory one on hand. She found she would either need a stenographer or learn to typewrite herself. The business could not warrant a stenographer yet, so she took a business course three nights a week and spent the other nights in practice. She had to talk long and hard to the retail merchants before she met with any success; but at length they came to realize that "she knew her stuff" and that they could do better through her than
592 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
from the farmers. She visited all the farmers in person within a radius of sixty miles and corresponded with those farther away. The business boomed. The little shop on Second Street radiated prosperity. Help had to be hired, trucks to be purchased. Mother Morrill was busy every minute of her day, but she went through it all as calmly and serenely as though she were used to running a railroad. Mary tore open her note. Half to herself she exclaimed, "Well, what do you think of this?" Ethel, standing behind her, responded, "Simply that Mother's done what Dad and you kids constantly urged—taken an apartment for the winter."
"Did you get one, too?"
"Yes, for myself and family. I bet Mother's cooked up a good old-fashioned meal. I've been looking forward to it all day."
"But, Ethel, we haven't even asked her to come to town this winter. She always made so much fuss over her everlasting turkeys. You don't suppose—she couldn't have brought them with her—could she?"
"Silly, turkeys would do fine in an apartment. I think Mother has just decided to give in and spend the winter here, and I'm mighty glad. The rest will do her a world of good."
"It will kill her. She has to be slaving or she isn't happy. Something wonderful must have happened to jar her loose from those turkeys." Tom was equally surprised. "My gosh," he expostulated on reading his mother's note, "An invitation to dinner." He glanced at the note again. "Did you notice, girls, it doesn't say supper? There's something queer." A few minutes later the phone rang. It was Tom Senior. "Do you know anything about your mother, Ethel? I was to meet her here when she came from Carrie's and she wasn't on the train."
"She's in town, Dad, at an apartment. We're all going up to dinner—invited for six o'clock."
"What? I'll be right up." Promptly at six o'clock the Morrill family rang the bell of apartment 5. Susan West answered. "Where's Mother?" they asked. "She ain't come yet." Susan threw the door wide, "Come in and make yourself to home. I'm looking for her any time." They looked at each other in amazement. "You working here all the time, Susan?" Mary asked. "Yes, your ma brought me in. I like it fine, too." More amazement. Susan departed to the kitchen. The family surveyed the room.
MOTHER'S "OUTSIDE" INTEREST 593
"It's perfectly charming," Ethel said at last; "done in exquisite taste."
"I'm glad Mother brought my chair in," Tom Senior was already in it. "You can't find a more comfortable piece of furniture than this."
"Thank heaven she left that old one of hers at the farm. I detest it."
"Mom seemed to like it though. Where on earth is she?" Tom voiced the question uppermost in all minds. Mary, after opening all doors and peering restlessly here and there, had sauntered over to the window. "For the love of Mike," she exclaimed. Tom was at her side, "Is that Mother?"
"Good night!" It was too much for Tom. The family all gathered round. A smart little roadster had driven up to the curb, and from it had emerged—Mother. "That can't be your mother, children?"
"Looks like her to me; but, oh boy, what a change!" Mother was coming up the stairs. She let herself in and ran from one to another, embracing her family. They met her in a daze, standing awkwardly—speechless. "Well, my dears, be seated and tell me how you like the apartment." They sat down, their eyes watching her stupidly. "Mother," they all began at once. "Aren't you starved?" she said, "I am. I'll see if dinner is ready." She pulled off her gloves, of soft fine kid, and revealed white well-cared-for hands; her coat, a creation, she removed unaided—both father and son were too confused to offer assistance. Then she removed her smart little toque. An involuntary "Oh!" escaped from the group when they saw her beautiful hair. She laughed, a little tremulously—"I'll see Susan"—and disappeared. "Goodnight—Irene!" It was Tom again who broke the silence. "What is it? What has happened? Isn't she a peach?" Mother came back then and ushered them to the table. Father at length found his voice, "I can't eat a thing, Margaret, till you explain this to us. What have you done?"
"I've gone into business," Mother answered with a calm she was far from feeling, "the wholesale poultry business—and I'm doing well. I'll tell you all about it later. Now let's eat, and afterward I'm treating the crowd to a musical comedy." None of them knew what they ate, they were too busy watching Mother. For the first time she held the reins of the conversation in her hands; she discussed the range with Tom Senior,
594 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
school with Mary and Tom, and the babies with Ethel, receiving only half-hearted replies from them all. It was very late that night before any of them retired. Mother had to go over and over her story, while the family made an effort to grasp it. "I've a position waiting for you, Tom, for Saturday and after school," she said; "I believe I can make you into a fairly good buyer, you're a lot like me. The salary won't be much at first, but will help out a little, and you won't be such an expense to your father."
"Bully for you, Mom; what time shall I appear in the morning?"
"And you, Mary, will be expected to take over the entire management of this apartment. I am away so much I can't attend to it properly."
"I'll love it," Mary answered, "It's so pretty and cozy." Then she wandered to her mother's room and started examining clothes. "Mother," she called, "These gowns are marvelous. You must go with me tomorrow to get a party dress. Dad has given me the money. Will you?" Mother smiled happily, "Of course, dear." At last the children were persuaded to retire. As they were leaving, Tom said, "My frat is entertaining the mothers at tea tomorrow, Mom, will you go?" Mother hesitated, "I'm pretty busy—"
"You'll have to come. I've got to show you to the fellows—they'll die of envy." Mother stretched out her silken-clad feet from which she had removed her slippers, and sighed—she was so happy. Tom Senior went over to her, he lifted her in his arms and going back to his own chair held her on his lap. It was the first time since Mary was a baby. Her eyes filled with tears. "Mother," he kept saying, and repeated over and over, "Mother." At last he said, "You've given them both something to do, Mother, are you leaving me out?"
"Oh Tom," she said, as she snuggled in his arms, "I could never leave you out; you're too much a part of me. You'll have to stand behind me in this business. It's going to be very hard sometimes."
"That I will, little woman," Tom answered; and, his masculine pride coming to the front, added, "You need never worry, I'll take care of you." And Mother, her face hid in his coat, smiled.
THE RELIEF SOCIETY OF THE CHURCH OF JESUS CHRIST OF LATTER-DAY SAINTS
Motto—Charity Never Faileth
THE GENERAL BOARD
MRS. LOUISE YATES ROBISON - - - - - - President MRS. AMY BROWN LYMAN - - - - - - First Counselor MRS. JULIA ALLEMAN CHILD - - - - - Second Counselor MRS. JULIA A. F. LUND - - - - - General Secretary and Treasurer
Mrs. Jennie B. Knight Mrs. Lotta Paul Baxter Miss Alice Louise Reynolds Mrs. Emma A. Empey Mrs. Cora L. Bennion Mrs. Nettie D. Bradford Mrs. Jeanette A. Hyde Mrs. Amy Whipple Evans Mrs. Elise B. Alder Miss Sarah M. McLelland Mrs. Ethel Reynolds Smith Mrs. Inez K. Allen Mrs. Annie Wells Cannon Mrs. Barbara Howell Richards Mrs. Ida P. Beal Mrs. Lalene H. Hart Mrs. Rosannah C. Irvine Mrs. Lizzie Thomas Edward, Music Director Miss Edna Coray, Organist
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
Editor - - - - ALICE LOUISE REYNOLDS Assistant Manager - - - Amy Brown Lyman
Room 28, Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah Magazine entered as second-class matter at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah
VOL. XV NOVEMBER, 1928 No. 11
EDITORIAL
The Red Cross to the Fore
The West Indian hurricane that wrought such havoc in Porto Rico and made its way up the Florida coast destroying from 2,500 to 3,500 lives, according to the best figures obtainable and much property, emphasizes once again the value of the Red Cross. The disaster unit of this organization was ready on the instant to go into the field and begin relief work. With great courage some of its members rode forth on a quaking sea and reached the seat of trouble. From them came messages of the extent of the catastrophe as well as an intelligent report on which a budget could be planned for adequate relief. This disaster is surely a most forceful reminder of the necessity for an organized agent being ever in readiness to face the disasters that invariably follow in the wake of these tremendous upheavals of nature that sometimes occur on the sea and sometimes occur on the land. How many lives have been saved, how much suffering averted by this particular sort of "preparedness" nobody can estimate, but that the salvage of life has been great surely none will deny.
It would be to the everlasting disgrace of a nation terming itself Christian if after two thousand years of the teachings of the blessed Master some organization did not come into being that
596 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
could in a measure cope with the exigencies of such untoward situations as follow tidal waves, earthquakes, cyclones and the like. It is a most appropriate thing that the cross symbolizing all the mercy of the Christ should enter into the name of this organization—an organization that all people, irrespective of race, color, religion or social standing must call blessed. Reverently we think of it; reverently we write of it. May its power for good increase in every land and clime on which the sun shines and the moon breathes forth a benediction. Utah Stake Observes Fiftieth Anniversary Not long ago in the city of Ogden the fiftieth anniversary of the organization of the Weber Stake Relief Society was observed. Following that came the beautiful pageant in the Tabernacle, which heralded the news that the ten stakes of Salt Lake City and Salt Lake county were harking back fifty years to the time when the original Salt Lake Stake was organized. On the 27th day of September, 1928, the Utah Stake Relief Society, in a fitting program, observed the date of its fiftieth anniversary. There were on the stand four women responsible at one period and another for leadership in the stake. These women were Mrs. Martha A. F. Keeler, Mrs. Inez Knight Allen, Mrs. Electa Smoot Dixon, and Mrs. Achsa E. Paxman. Mrs. Paxman is the present incumbent. An outstanding feature of the celebration was a representation in pageantry of the women of Utah Stake who were ward presidents before the stake was organized. This feature of the program was carried over by women of the Society, many of whom were relatives of the ward presidents they represented. They were gowned in the fashions of that past period. For instance, Mrs. Grace Cheever, who represented Lucy Smith, wore a costume that was her own mother's, thus reviving the dress in vogue half a century ago. Professor J. M. Jensen wrote some verses characterizing the life and labors of these first presidents. The verses were read to musical accompaniment by Miss Elaine Paxman, daughter of the president. A feature of the gathering was the assembling of persons who had worked in the Relief Society fifty years ago. The history of the organization was presented by Virgie C. Murdock, counselor to President Achsa E. Paxman. A solo, Mother Machree, by Mrs. Allie Webb Clark, was electrifying to the audience. Flowers were presented to past presidents of stakes and to the members of the General Board who were there. The celebration was featured by two events, the presentation of a silver watch to Electa Smoot Dixon in recognition of her devotion during her term of office and the report by President T. N. Taylor of the opening of a box which was owned by the Relief Society and marked to be opened in fifty years. The box contained the photographs and EDITORIAL 597 pamphlets and papers that had to do in the main with the Third Ward Relief Society. Counselor Jennie B. Knight, Mrs, Inez Knight Allen, and Miss Alice L. Reynolds represented the General Board at the gathering. Our Educational World October sees practically every American college in full swing. Nobody whose opinion is valued pretends to doubt that education is a very important business and that it is becoming increasingly more important as the world advances. Crowded colleges of late have been a matter of much pubiic comment and much private distress to heads of institutions compelled to take care of thousands of young people. Yet it will undoubtedly be a surprise to many people to learn that one-fourth of the people in the United States are engaged in either getting or giving education. Education bids fair to be the nation's biggest business. That it will be, in time, is inevitable. Fortunately we have not carried through all of the problems that were known when the world was young; some have been solved. Constantly an ever-advancing world has brought to us problems unknown to the infant world with its primitive civilization. The problems of a higly specialized civilization can be met only by increasing knowledge; and it is for this purpose that colleges are established, extension courses offered, correspondence schools organized; for it is necessary that light and knowledge shall reach into remote places. No helpful changes, no matter how desirable they may be, can be brought about unless the masses as well as the classes are well informed. While we were in Paris in 1925 we saw on several occasions youths and maidens passing the Pasteur Institute with long loaves of bread under their arms unwrapped, exposed to all the dust of the street. In America today there is scarcely a hamlet that is so out of step with progress that it does not have bread wrapped in paper properly waxed or oiled. It is of little value to France that one of the ablest of her men should have added materially to the germ theory of diseases, if the people go on from decade to decade exposing their bread to all the dirt of a modern city street. The difficulty with France is not that there is a lack of intelligence in upper circles; the difficulty lies in the fact that she does not get her story of scientific achievement with its application over to the people at large. The possession of knowledge by the few does not turn the trick. The Relief Society through its educational program and its social work is helping to spread material that will enable its members to be in the ranks of the great army of progress that is daily rising on stepping stones of its dead self to higher things. Why Make a Budget? Jean Cox The homemaker who said to the automobile salesman, "We haven't made a budget yet, so are not ready to investigate any automobiles," had the right standard for financial success in the home. This home, by the way, represented a close partnership, as the wife felt some definite responsibility in helping to meet necessary payments on land, machinery, new home and furnishing. Her responsibility as a member of the firm extended to personal expenditures as well, since she was just as careful of what she spent as if she were entirely responsible for meeting the bills and notes necessary for an expanding farm business. The Home-Maker's View It may be interesting to note that this homemaker had earned money for several years before her marriage and knew not only the value of money but also the importance of accounts and budgets before her salary check became past history. Her own financial independence had convinced her that money has only a limited purchasing power, and her experience had convinced her that if the dollars are used to satisfy one want another desire will go unsatisfied. In her home, limited by conditions imposed by a new country, this wife and mother continued to spend the income so as to satisfy the greatest possible number of family needs. Success in satisfying needs is largely dependent upon careful planning. It is said that the woman of yesterday thought and thought and then spent, while the woman of today spends and spends and then thinks and thinks. Giving thought as to how to spend after the purchase is made is parallel to locking the gate after the horse is gone. Neither worry nor regrets will make money available for the comforts that should have been purchased with the part of the family check frittered away with large and small extravagances. Attempts to justify this kind of spending frequently accompany the off-hand remark, "I should worry; Dad has to pay the bills." This is, to say the least, characterless conversation. What is a Budget? One of the big reasons why the average person does not radiate much enthusiasm for budgets is due largely to the fact that the term budgets and accounts are used interchangeably. WHY MAKE A BUDGET? 599 Accounts are only records of expenditure, they are memorandums of expense, but budgets are like the blue prints of a building; they are the plan ahead of time for spending the income. Making a budget is merely a device for thinking out the division of the income so as to obtain major satisfactions and pleasures. It helps to divide the weekly, monthly or yearly income so as to cover the needs of the individual and family. Another reason why budgets are apt to be in disfavor is due to the fact that the budget cannot be imposed upon the family or individual. When this is attempted vexation results. A plan ahead of time for spending your money is necessarily different from the division best suited to the needs of your neighbors. The right division for the individual family is only possible when it is based on actual record of expenditures. With this record at hand, careful analysis is necessary in order to determine what expenditures are to be definitely classified as Must Haves or May Haves. How Budgets Must Differ Miss A., in her bachelor quarters, spends more than the ordinary fifth of her salary for rent, but she is convinced that in order to be reasonably happy and comfortable she must have the apartment rather than a room. In order to keep within her living expense allowance, she spends less for food because she prepares a part of her meals in the small kitchenette and also does her personal laundry. Miss B. Has only a room at less cost than Miss A's apartment, but necessarily spends more for food and running expense than Miss A. They both receive the same salary and are able to make practically the same investment saving each month. Each one is spending in accordance with the plan she has worked out, in order that they may have peace of mind in their living arrangements. Budget specialists, in banks and investment hvuses, have worked out different devices to help their patrons decide whether or not it is possible to make readjustments of their opinions as to how many wants they must or may satisfy on their income. Determining the best expenditure of funds is dependent upon judgment. As a device for determining between essentials and non-essentials, it may be wise to list the "must haves" in one column and the "may haves" in another and then divide the income proportionately between the two. MustHaves and May-Haves Miss Agnes Donham, special lecturer and writer on household budgets, divides family and personal expenditures into two big classes—Must Haves and May Haves. The must haves deal 600 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE with stern reality such as minimum essentials in shelter, food, ciothing and running expenses and advancement on the same income. Different families have different standards as to minimum requirements for health and happiness. The Jones', for instance, feel that considerable sacrifice is commendable in order that the Jones' children may have the opportunities afforded by a better neighborhood than the ordinary budget division allows for rent. The Browns, in contrast to their old friends the Jones', are anxious to trim their expenses for shelter and chothes and incidentals in order that William Jr. May have opportunity for musical education. The following Budget Wheel worked out by Miss Donham is a good device to help analyze and classify expenditures. Where the income is low, more than a fifth of the income is spent for food. This extra amount is usually taken out of the fifth allotted to development and clothing. The housekeeper anxious to spend wisely should be interested in keeping accounts and then classifying expenditures according to the division suggested: WHY MAKE A BUDGET? 601
Budget Plan
Operating Coal .................................... Oil ..................................... Wood .................................. Gas .................................... Electricity ............................ Water ................................. Laundry ............................. Service ............................... Household Supplies ........ Repairs and Replacements ............................ Telephone ........................
Miscellaneous operating House Carfare ................. Postage ............................ Express ............................
Food Week ................................ Month .............................. Year .................................
Food Milk and Cheese............. Fruit and Vegetables........ Groceries and Ice............ Meat and Eggs................
Clothing Man ................................................................... Woman ............................................................ Children .........................................................
Total Income Number in family........................................... Ages of children ............................................
Special Conditions Occupation ....................................................
Bread and Cereals........... Outside Meals .................
Development Education ......................... Health .............................. Church ............................. Benevolence .................... Recreation ....................... Vacation .......................... Club Dues ....................... Gifts (personal) .............. Household equip. ............ Personal Expenses .......... Automobile .....................
Location—Health ........................................... Dependents ....................................................
Shelter Rent ................................................................. or Interest ........................................................... Taxes .............................................................. Fire Insurance ................................................ Repairs and ................................................... Business Carfare ............................................
There is good psychology in the emphasis given savings in this budget wheel. The time is past when to save what isn't spent for others things is sufficient. Purposeful savings must be planned for and the amount must be taken out before expenditures are made. In the more recent books on household accounts the arrangement of columns differs from that of the earlier household account books. The following arrangement has been found satisfactory for some families:
Income ......................... Clothing: Dentist ....................... Savings ........................ Father ....................... Foods: ........................ Gifts: Mother ........................ Meats ......................... Donation ..................... Johnny ....................... Groceries ................... Charity ...................... Advancement ................ Fresh Fruits and Rent ......................... Light ........................... Vegetables
Representative of Needs One of the biggest arguments for systematic household accounts and budgets lies in their value in character training for the younger members of the family. Children should be taught appreciation of what is done for them by their parents. This should help them to understand what they cost their parents in terms of dollars and cents. Frequently, unruly boys and girls have never been made acquainted with the amount of income the family has available for its needs, and only where there is understanding among all of the members of the family does the budget become a family budget, representative of the needs of the different members of the group. Unlimited and uncontrolled spending is not conducive to good morale in the home. Let the carefully worked out Children Number in family 602 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE budget determine the amount of spending money each member of the group should request. Stabilizes the Family Budget planning gives stability to the family. Social workers find that 9/10 of the broken families break down on the financial rocks. One well known attorney says that 95% of divorces are directly or indirectly dependent upon questions of family finance. Much of this failure in homemaking is due to the fact that either one or both of the contracting parties have either failed to think or failed to face financial facts that needed careful consideration. Careless thinking in terms of income and outgo result in the accumulation of more bills than available funds can pay. The result usually is financial disaster, unhappiness, loss of confidence and legal separation. A budget helps you to know how you are using your life. Record of plans for and expenditure of your funds help to tell the kind of a person you really are. Comparatively few people have had the opportunity of buying all that they desired. Very few of those who have achieved have been able to develop in their chosen field, without sacrifice and careful planning. If your expenditures show many expenditures that mean little or nothing in lasting satisfaction, it is possible that your present living is not purposeful and worth while. To Think in Terms of Budgets It takes considerable discussion to help people think in terms of budgets. Budget experts are often of the same opinion as the old darkey who says: "T tell 'em what I'm going to tell, I tells 'em and den I tells 'em what I've done tole 'em!" Many people get the idea that accounts and budgets are merely devices for saving. That is not the case. The economist does not stand for pessimistic saving, for life is not made for saving. People who have only money enough to get along with should not be asked to save. The thought behind the saving is to make life more abundant. The idea of planning before spending is to help people live up to better ideals for deferred purchasing power means more abundant life. Working to save and saving to live more completely represent two definite ideals. Consider Relative Values Another use of the budget idea is to show the relationship between income, house value and furnishing. Where the income is WHY MAKE A BUDGET? 603 $3,600 a year a fifth of it may be spent for shelter which should include heat, taxes and depreciation as well. The value of the home is partly determined by its actual renting value. An apartment, for instance, rents theoretically for 10% of its total value. A person living in an apartment where rent is $75 a month is living in the equivalent of a house valued at about $7,000. Few people have any idea of the total value of their house furnishings. This, of course, is difficult because different articles need more frequent replacement than others. Then, too, hangings and furnishings are sometimes disposed of before they are really worn out. Even with these difficulties the average family should know approximately how much their furnishings are worth. If you queston this, make an estimate as to the value of your furnishings, then sit down and list the furnishings you have in each room. The next step is to try to duplicate at a furniture store or a second hand store what you have in your home. Probably considerable surprise will result from the grand total. The question of "How much should be spent for furnishings?" should be carefully considered. Home economists who have made a careful study of this feel that not more than 25% of the house cost should be spent for the furnishing of the home. This percentage should be taken into consideration in planning a home for the total investment of the house, lot and furnishing should not be more according to Dr. Andrews than the family income for three years. The Family on Economic Bases Is your family on a staple economic basis? What determines economic stability? Does spending money for auto, theatres, new house, expensive furnishing, elaborate clothing, travel, etc., give assurance of certain financial freedom? This freedom is short lived, however, if there isn't proportionate savings and reinvestment for the rainy day ahead. If the income is sufficient to warrant expenditures for Iuxuries then some savings are necessary, if the plan for spending is approved by budget specialists. Dr. Benjamin R. Andrews thinks that the family ambitious for an auto should have an equal amount in the savings bank for a rainy day. The most accepted reasons for saving are the emergency, dependence of old age, care of dependents, building a home and education of the younger members of the family. The most generally accepted views for living within a budget are to live more completely, to be safeguarded from financial disaster, to live harmoniously with the other members of the group. Marilie's Ghost By Helen Kimball Orgill There are ghosts; but the one which haunted Marilie was different from the ordinary run of them. Hers was the ghost of a story that wanted to be written. The Alden family came from Boston to Alberta. The mother and father had engaged in pedagogical and other educational pursuits; but one day a newspaper article had attracted them, depicting the wonderful opportunities of the Northwest. A spirit of adventure seized both parents. What could be more thrilling than the prospect of owning acres of rich prairie land, acres which could be made to yield a bounteous living? In addition would there not come renewal of health and strength? So they went, selling all possessions which could not be taken. It was a far cry from teaching school in Boston to homesteading in western Canada. Years of disillusionment followed. They both pined for the cozy comforts of the old home. True, health and strength had come to them, as well as the children; but they wearied of the unceasing struggle incident to life in the rigorous North. It had been fine as long as the novelty lasted; but now, feeling unable to overcome the longings for the old home conditions, they once more disposed of their belongings, sold the land to which they now held title, and went back. But in the meantime Marilie, eldest of. Three daughters, had met big, handsome Jim Graham. Besides, youth is more easily transplanted; so she had no desire to follow the rest of her family. Jim weaved wondrous romance as he gazed across the wide stretches of rolling hills. How he loved the prairie, with its sunny skies, invigorating climate and green grass. All that was needed to make his prospects perfect was the addition of Marilie to grace his humble abode. She in turn absorbed some of his enthusiasm. So they were married, with the future looming brightly with rose-hued dreams. With foresight they planted many trees, building always with an eye for the future. Then came Betty, the wonderful first child, followed by the boy, Danny. There was indeed something to work for now. In the meantime there was a gradual stirring in Marilie's being. During her high school days, Marilie had shown undoubted literary ability. Her composition work had called forth unstinted praise from the instructors, MARILIE'S GHOST 605 "There is no literary height you may not attain to," one enthusiastic professor had declared. With the passing of the years that followed, these words were almost forgotten. The days and months seemed so crowded with matters very foreign to a literary life. But in her young married life, with the two children to care for, strangely enough, ambition was reborn, and with it a sense of guilt for neglecting a God-given talent. There were tremors in her very soul as glimmerings of this power, this ability to write, was making itself felt. And all nature, as viewed from her eyes, took on a cloak of beauty. Before, she would rush to the spring for water, and only thoughts of the work in hand came to her. Now she invariably paused as different shades of vegetation met her gaze. The aromatic odor of bergamot and various herbs soothed her senses as poetic phrases rushed to her brain. After such experiences there was nearly always something burning or boiling over on the stove, or perhaps dinner was late. In a word, something seemed to go wrong about the house. Marilie began to glimpse the struggle ahead. At any cost, Jim and the children must not be neglected; on the other hand, she was determined to cling to a career of writing. One task must not suffer at the expense of the other. But her own strength and ability to follow this straight line had not been figured on. Story writing is very engrossing, and a pioneer life anywhere | is a continual struggle. A gradual slighting of her home was the inevitable result. It showed itself first in the untidy appearance of the children. Jim was often annoyed by missing buttons. The house work no longer went like a clock. Jim was unusually patient, realizing the sacrifice Marilie had made in marrying him. The true nature of existing conditions dawned upon her one day, as Betty was coming to the house with her father. The window was up and she glanced out through the curtain in time to hear Betty remark, “Mother's been writing again." The father placed an arm about her shoulders as he answered, "My poor little girl." Marilie felt the blood rush to her temples. It was not so much what was said as the idea that they were suffering together, sympathizing together, while she was the cause of it all, and, therefore, not included. So, came the determination to give up all thoughts of a career. But as time went on, this well-meant resolve weakened, and she found herself trying to eke out spare moments in which to set down the ideas which continued to fill her consciousness. It was early in the spring, too early for any work to be done on the land. Jim and some neighbors were planning to hunt for 606 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE some of their stray horses. It would mean two or three days absence at least. A te Marilie knew that here was an opportunity to go to her beloved writing. Besides a few chores to do nights and mornings, there was nothing rushing. Betty and Danny had built a play house of cobble rocks in the coulee near by, and when the weather was favorable, spent much of their time there. They had chosen a dry 'place, but a considerable amount of mud almost surrounded it. Marilie felt elated. She would write that story now with no fear of a disturbance. For months it had loomed up like a spectre, staring at her from all angles. What a relief it would be to get it safely on paper, if only to rest in the bottom of her trunk. Soon the story was being formed into written words, phrases, and sentences. They fairly leaped from her pencil point. Marilie almost wondered where they came from—surely not from her brain. Of course not; she was merely a medium, whereby a masterpiece was brought into being. Exultingly she wrote on and on, regardless of time. When her note book was full, she reached up on the shelf for some brown wrapping paper and continued. Her pencil broke, and not deigning to lose time, she tore the wood away from the lead with her fingers. After a time Betty came in.' "Mother." No answer. ) "Mother, listen. Danny won't keep. His sunfens on, His feet are getting wet." Marilie looked in her little girl's direction, then went on writing. Betty went out, but soon came in again. "Mother, his feet are sopping wet." Still no answer; so she went back to play. A half hour later, the story was completed. She placed it in the bottom of her trunk, then gazed defiantly across the room. She challenged her ghost. Immediately afterwards, a brooding sense of something gone wrong overshadowed her. Where were the children? There was a faint memory of Betty's coming in, but what Betty wanted she could not remember. Starting down the road she met them, Danny holding Betty's hand. She sighed with momentary relief. Betty pointed down at her brother's feet. "Danny, Danny," cried the mother. "You wouldn't listen to me," accused the sister. Marilie shot her a comprehending gaze, but said nothing. Had not Danny been the "croupy kind" all might have been well. As it was, his mother knew what to expect. Hurriedly she and Betty made preparations to get him into MARILIE'S GHOST 607 a warm bed. But before this was accomplished, the tell-tale cough was heard. Before night had set in, Marilie felt inadequate to the occasion. Never had an attack been so intense. Betty offered to ride the pony over to Belmont's ranch and zet someone to go for the doctor; but a snow storm came up, increasing in its fury as the evening wore on. So the mother knew the fight must be made alone. ' Valiantly the little girl stayed by her mother's side until persuaded to go to bed. One by one the remedies were tried out. The croup simply would not loosen. How she prayed as she worked! "Of course, it's all mv own fault," she moaned. With the first signs of breaking day, her prayers were answered. 'The poor, little, nearly strangled fellow breathed more easily, and Marilie sensed that intense joy which verges on pain. In the morning she felt like a reborn person; and the tormenting ghost, like an emissary of satan, knew when he had been worsted, and did not return. The next few years bore record of a mother's faithful devotion in the Graham household. Prosperity came in time, and two girls and another boy were added to the happy family. Frugality becomes a life-time habit, if kept up for a number of years. Betty had finished high school before a trip back to her Boston home was contemplated by Marilie. It was finally decided that she should go unaccompanied by her husband, but should take the youngest boy. Betty agreed to keep house for the summer, taking Mother' S place to the best of her ability. So for a month and a half, Marilie enjoyed the dear companionship of her now aging parents and old friends. At the end of this time, she was loath to leave; but her own hearthstone was calling, and she felt that she must go, even though all letters received reiterated the statement that all was well. So she and little Bud again found themselves in a comfortable Pullman, once more bound for home. At the little Canadian station Jim was impatiently awaiting the arrival of his wife and son. When they rounded the last hill which brought the farm buildings into view, the sun was just slipping out of sight over the western horizon. How good it seemed to be back! At sight of the familiar place an exclamation escaped Marilie's lips. "O, you've painted things up; and if I don't declare, you've built an addition to the house. "Yes; thought we'd get it done while you were away," he tried to say it in a matter-of-fact way. Marilie was plainly puzzled that it had all been done with no 608 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE helpful planning from her; but Jim would offer no further explanation. Whole-heartedly the children welcomed her. After greetings were over, there was an expectant pause and Danny spoke, "Let's show her what we've done." She was ushered into a modernly appointed sitting room and library combined. Somewhat bewildered, Marilie looked from one to another of her family. "You see, Mother,' Betty was explaining, "we all know and realize how you've sacrificed your girlhood dreams so that we might be properly cared for. We appreciate it; and after talking 't all over, Daddy suggested that we fit up this room for your own private study, and we're to see that you have all the time you want to enjoy it and none can enter without your consent." Deeply moved at this symbol of their gratitude, Marilie could not speak for a moment.  "Eas it come too late, Mother?" queried Betty, mistaking the silence. "Why, bless you, no, my darlings." She was smiling happily. "Maybe I'll have something worth while to write about now I've really lived." Later, when the children were in bed and Jim had gone for a last nightly look around the stables, Marilie passed over to one of the windows in her study and stood gazing out at the flickering shadows of her prairie home. She was thinking, thinking espe- "Tas it come too late, Mother?" Marilie knew that it really had come too late. All down the years her very heart's blood had been given unstintingly for these she loved. It had been give, give, give. She had lived on an intellectual plane with them instead of growing mentally, as_she had fully intended when the writing had been given up. Day by day, with no serious thought independent of their welfare, she had watched these young strangers growing up around her. Continually she excused herself for reading recreatively rather than educationally. Some time, some time, I'll study, she had promised herself. But always she was so busy; and when a few moments were snatched from the day's routine, it seemed so much more restful to read some light story, which would carry her away on wings from the usual happenings of her existence. Now she felt spent, just a littie weary. The fires of youthful ambition were burning low. Could the loss be made up? She knew, within her heart of hearts, that as her life had been spent in giving so manifoldly, she had received in return something far more precious. What it was she couldn't say; but, anyway, it had enriched her being, making it finer than it otherwise would MARILIE'S GHOST 609 have been. Selfishness had no place in her make-up. Perhaps this accounted for the purity of her soul. No creative work on earth can be compared or purposely substituted for motherhood, no matter how opinions may differ on the question. And so, with a thankful heart, Marilie decided that all was as it should be, and knew that, under such conditions, the purest of inspiration would aid her in all future attempts at a literary career. Gratitude By Julia Collard Baker My dreams once held a swelling germ, of high ambitious flight; And worldly Cynics smiled to note that kindling burst of light. When whisked away by atheist's sneer, Faith made me understand. That reaching upward I could hold that flame within my hand. A flower I tended, watered, nursed, ah deep the joy that thrilled me; Uprooted by the storms of night, memory and longing filled me With hope of June, with perfume of the rose that blushed, Shine of the sun that spoke to me, of winter winds now hushed. A little singing bird I found of plumage strangely fair; I pressed it close against my heart, with none its song would share: Till gladdest music from its throat swelled out upon the air And little children caught the song to heart, and held it there. A child was laid upon my breast, on her with generous dower Was lavished Faith, the wild rose's bloom, the Songster's magic power., That radiant life was called above, by Heavenly mandate wise, Which bade me rise and claim the light of service and sacrifice. This day a rapture stirs my soul, nor from it would I flee— The flame of hope, the wild rose scent, song of a bird in glee. Dear God, I thank Thee for the right to Faith, and hope, and light, And memory of the life that sleeps in peace within Thy sight. Pioneers By Lais V. Hales "One Man's Life"—-HERBERT QUICK On the tenth of May, 1925, Herbert Quick, the great novelist of the Middle West, died suddenly. Only a few days before his death he had arranged with "The Saturday Evening Post' to publish in installments his autobiography entitled "One Man's Life." This autobiography has since been published in book form and is a lasting monument to the pioneer life of Iowa. It was begun on the author's sixty-third birthday and tells the story of pioneer days in Iowa as seen by a small boy, a farmer, a teacher, a lawyer, an editor, and a novelist, all of which Mr. Quick successively became during his lifetime. Early in the Spring of 1857 his parents set out for a new and different world. They turned toward the west and soon gazed with dazzled eyes "sheltered under the cupped hands of toil, out over a vast sea of grassy hillocks." These limitless, treeless wastes were the feared and loved prairies of Iowa and it was here that Mr. Quick was born and lived. He lived with the prairie in all her different moods. He saw it struggle with fierce storms, watched the plow destroy it, helped destroy its winding trails, and finally saw it conquered by the great steel engines. This prairie land which was like nothing else in the whole wide world, he came to love. He fished in its small, clear pools fringed by tall grasses. He came to know intimately its animal and vegetable life. Many times he witnessed the great prairie fires in all their terror and beauty and exulted in the new green life that sprang up soon after the fire was gone. He saw this prairie an unending sheet of snow in winter and knew of the great cold waves and blizzards which swept over it, freezing people to death in their beds and destroying their livestock. He watched the unbroken sky-line and clear pools disappear and tall groves of trees, plowed fields, farmsteads, and towns take their place and he felt that a thing of great wonder and beauty was passing away forever. This Iowa prairie Mr. Quick has preserved faithfully and sympathetically for us in his autobiography. He has honestly pictured it as it appeared to our weary pioneers as they looked out over its limitless stretch and thought of the homes they had left. About Mr. Quick's prairie there is beauty, mystery, cruelty, and wonder. Almost classic is Mr. Quick's description of the "chronicle of the wheat," a thing always so intimately connected with the life of the pioneer. For many years, after the first honk of the wild geese in spring, he helped clean and sow the seed wheat. He watched the sprouting of the seed, the young shoots looking like "the points of bright green nails driven up from PIONEERS 611 below." He saw the wheat grow to maturity and helped to harvest it. Over it all he many times shed tears of pure delight. But a time came when it no longer stood clean and green in the field. Now it was spotted and black with rust. The poetry was all gone out of it. And he watched the farmer, in his ignorance and helplessness, sow the sick wheat year after year, reaping no harvest, until he had spread the disease far and wide over the fertile ground. Not until years later did he see fields of waving corn where the wheat had once stood in all its glory. How well has Mr. Quick expressed the '"'weariness" of the home-loving pioneer woman with but one desire—that of a roof over her head. The meagreness of her life, her delight in small pleasures he sympathetically shows us. In this age of books and magazines almost to the point of satiety, it is difficult for us to understand the time the pioneer woman spent in solitude—mental solitude. This tragic phase of pioneer life Mr. Quick witnessed in his mother and the women with whom she associated. As we read the book we feel the delight that its author derived from writing it. His fine, cheerful personality colors every sentence, Even his tragic youth, marred by infantile paralysis, from which he never wholly recovered, he cheerfully recalls. There is about the book the wholesomeness of the prairie where he lived and worked out his life. He was warmly interested in anything which touched the pioneer and he tells us of their lives in a very companionable honest way. We feel his utter honesty and sympathy with his subject and know that we can here find an authentic description of the early life of Iowa. He has preserved in "One Man's Life" for all time something very fine which has passed away forever.
Pastoral By Carrie Tanner
Ah beautiful! When calm of coming evening spreads o'er summer fields, And cool deep shadows fall on western hills, Enhancing there dear Nature's dress of flowered green, While on and on low sounds the uncomplaining murmur of the rills.
Then clouds like whitest carded wool 'gainst heaven's blue lie soft at rest. Ah beautiful! The tinkling bell, the sleek and shining kine then homeward leads Through gentle waves of damp'ning grasses cool, Of meadows—velvet like—around the spring's deep, quiet pool.
The sheep 'neath shelt'ring shed lie cozy in their fold— A picture of sweet innocence and perfect peace. Ah beautiful!
Notes from the Field By Amy Brown Lyman
Cache and Logan Stakes. Cache and Logan stakes joined in decorating a float, called "The Desert Blossomed as the Rose," which won first prize in a parade held in Logan, on July 24. The float contained over fifteen thousand sweet peas, fifteen dozen gladioli, eight dozen blue delphinium, $10 worth of moss, and hundreds of yellow and lavender flowers. Only fresh flowers and greenery were used.
Organizations and Reorganizations. Following is a list of organizations and reorganizations of stake and mission Relief Societies which occurred during the six months between the April and October conferences, 1928. The presidents and their co-workers who have received honorable releases, have also received grateful appreciation for the services they have so nobly rendered the organization.
Alpine Stake was divided July 1, 1928, into Alpine, Lehi and Timpanogos stakes. Mrs. Eliza Buckwalter was released as president, and new officers were appointed as follows: Alpine stake, Mrs. Maude D. Christensen, president; Mrs. Laura Dunkley and Mrs. Lillie Wilde, counselors; Mrs. Mary E. Abel retained as
NOTES FROM THE FIELD 613
secretary; Lehi stake, Mrs. Mina Webb, president; Mrs. Olena Goodwin and Mrs. Clara Webb, counselors; Mrs. Emma Phillips, secretary; Timpanogos stake, Mrs. Ella M. Cragun, president; Mrs. Kate Jacobs and Mrs. Cora Atwood, counselors, and Mrs. Jennie W. Johnson, secretary.
Ensign Stake was reorganized September 25, 1928, when Mrs. Luacine S. Clark was released as president, and Mrs. Alice Bitner Castleton was appointed president, with Mrs. Lucile B. Taylor and Mrs. Ida P. Weiler as counselors, and Mrs. Inga H. Wells, secretary.
Oquirrh Stake was reorganized August 19, 1928; Mrs. Emma S. Jacobs, released; Mrs. Marie Tygesen appointed president; Mrs. Matilda Green and Mrs. Mary Ann Jones, counselors; Mrs. Annie B. Peterson, retained as secretary.
Snowflake Stake was reorganized August 26, 1928; Mrs. Ann S. Shumway released; Mrs. Leonora S. Rogers appointed president; Mrs. Lulu J. Smith and Mrs. Lydia S. Peterson retained as counselors, and Mrs. Pearl N. Fish retained as secretary.
South Sevier Stake was reorganized in July, 1928, when Mrs. Nina A. Hansen was released and Mrs. Ada Anderson was appointed president; Mrs. Annetta Christensen and Mrs. Ada Bateman, counselors; Mrs. Clara Kotter retained as secretary.
Teton Stake was reorganized July, 1928; Mrs. Mary A. Nelson released, Mrs. Ada Fairbanks appointed president; Mrs. Florence Davidson and Mrs. Isabell Paul were appointed counselors, and Mrs. Sadie Love, secretary.
Eastern States Mission was reorganized in August, 1928; Miss Lola R. Bradford, released, and Miss Olita Melville appointed president.
French Mission was reorganized in September, 1928; Mrs. Venus R. Rossiter, released; her successor has not yet been appointed.
New Zealand Mission was reorganized April, 1928, when Mrs. Cora S. Jenkins was released and Mrs. Jennie Magleby was appointed president.
Swiss-German Mission was reorganized in 1928, when Mrs. Sarah R. Cannon was released and Mrs. Eliza W. Tadje was appointed president.
Western States Mission was reorganized in April, 1928, when Mrs. Florence R. Knight was released and Mrs. Elias S. Woodruff was appointed president.
Summer Outings for Children. Through the cooperation of the General Board with a number of stake Relief Societies and with other organizations, seventy-one children from Salt Lake City, needing fresh air and sunshine and good food, were given an opportunity to spend some time in
614 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
the country during the summer school vacation. Sixteen children went to North Davis stake, twenty-five to Franklin and Oneida stakes, eight to Kolob stake, and four to South Davis stake. Eight boys went to the Boys Camp at Mueller Park, through the courtesy of the Exchange Club, and ten extremely underweight children, possible tuberculosis contacts, were taken by the Utah Public Health Association to the health camp in Big Cottonwood Canyon for six weeks. All the children returned home in greatly improved condition.
SUMMER ACTIVITIES:
Juarez Stake. The Relief Society women of Juarez stake were greatly favored during the summer by attending a course of special lectures given under the auspices of the stake for class teachers, by Dr. Amos N. Merrill of the Brigham Young University, Provo, Utah. Among the subjects discussed were "The Relief Society, Its Place and Function in the Church," "The Role of Women in the March of Human Progress," and "Methods of Attacking Local Problems."
North Davis Stake. Among the topics discussed in the ward conferences which were held during the summer in North Davis stake were the following: "What does it mean to sustain a ward officer?" "What the Relief Society does for its Members," "What is Relief Work?" and "How do the Ward Relief Societies Cooperate with the Bishopric in Relief Work?"
Carbon Stake. The Carbon stake has conducted a campaign during the summer among the various wards in the interest of civic pride, the slogan being "Beautify Back Yards." Castle Gate ward received the cash prize for having conducted the most effective campaign. The members of the stake board were hostesses to the class leaders and executive officers of the fourteen wards of the stake at the annual convention held in the tabernacle at Price, Utah, on August 28. A luncheon and exhibit of needlework, fruits, vegetables and flowers were held in connection with the convention.
Bear River Stake. The Bear River stake held a semi-centennial review during the summer, which was adapted by Mrs. Della Marriott from the Relief Society Review, (written by Claire Stewart Boyer and presented by the Salt Lake county stakes last April) for the celebration, making a complete history of the Relief Society work in Box Elder, Malad and Bear River stakes. The Bear River stake grew out of the Box Elder and Malad stakes, which joined with
NOTES FROM THE FIELD 615
the Bear River stake in celebrating the semi-centennial. The review also included the history of the Lamanite Relief Society at Washakie. In connection with the class leaders' convention which was held early in September, an exhibition of summer work and a flower display were held.
Big Horn Stake. The Big Horn stake board met in May and outlined the following summer program which was used successfully by the wards during the summer: July 3, Testimony, subject, Temple Work; July 10, Pioneer Days in the Big Horn; July 17, Better Films; July 24, Folk songs and dances; July 31, One-Act Play; August 7, Testimony, subject, the M. I. A. Slogan; August 14, Art in the Home; August 21, Open-Air Social, the Priesthood as guests; August 28, One-Act Play; September 4, Testimony, subject Signs of the Times; September 11, Sketches of Lives of Political Candidates; September 18, Demonstration of Table and Food Decorations; September 25, One-Act Play.
For the year 1927, the attendance of the Big Horn stake Relief Society at regular meetings was about 8% below the general average of the Relief Societies of the Church. In order to raise the standard, an attendance contest was arranged between the wards to be on the percentage basis. It was agreed that at the end of the year the winning ward should be entertained by the ward having the lowest average. To date, the attendance has increased over 17%. Records are being sent to the wards listing their standing in the stake in attendance at regular meetings, at officers' and prayer meetings, the percentage of teachers' visits made and the general activities each month. This is a splendid way of checking up and has kept up the interest in the contest.
In April, Miss Elsie Witchen, a representative of the United States Children's Bureau, gave a series of lectures in Big Horn County, followed up by children's clinics, the Relief Societies cooperating. The clinics were held in four different towns, examining two hundred eighty-five children. Of this number twenty-one had rickets; one hundred sixteen were under weight and two hundred thirty-seven defective. It was something of a shock to find so many physical defects, and steps have already been taken to overcome this condition. Seven flower shows have been held in the stake during the summer, showing the increased interest in careful planting, selection and display of flowers, and greater abundance. The aim next year is a shrub for every family. During the month of September, class leaders and teachers conventions were held. The stake was divided into two groups for these conventions, one group meeting at Burlington and one at Lovell.
Guide Lessons for January
LESSON I (First Week in January)
THE NEW COURSE
A number of appeals have been made from the field to have the course of study begin after the summer vacation. As a result the executive committee took the matter under advisement and decided to outline a course for six months beginning in January and ending in June, the course for the following year to begin in October when work resumes after the summer vacation. The three courses presented will be: first, one in practical religion; secondly, one in modern drama and, thirdly, a continuation of the lessons in social service. The course in practical religion will consist of lessons on the following subjects: conscience, purity, honesty, temperance, industry, loyalty. The course in literature will consist of six modern plays, each emphasizing a social problem of a nature that we trust will be interesting to Relief Society members. These dramas are: Nowadays, by George Middleton; The Devil's Disciple, by George Bernard Shaw; He and She, by Rachel Crothers; What Every Woman Knows, by James Matthew Barrie; Joseph and His Brethren, by Louis N. Parker; and The Doll's House, by Henrik Ibsen. The social service lessons, which during the past year have been devoted to a course in child-study, will resume lessons on the same subject. The books containing the dramas will be for sale at the Deseret Book Company, 44 East South Temple Street, Salt Lake City, Utah. A price list will be published by the magazine, as soon as the books are received by the Deseret Book Company.
EVERY DAY ETHICS AND PRACTICAL RELIGION AND TESTIMONY
A series of six lessons will be presented under this title. The major objective of the lessons as a whole is to increase an interest in a thoughtful search for the right, in a judicious choice of the right, and in acting right for the love of right itself as well as for the love of others and ourselves. At the same time we shall keep in view the fact that as the mariner's compass must constantly be adjusted by observa-
GUIDE LESSONS FOR JANUARY 617
tions of the upper deep, so human standards of conduct must be tested by divine standards of righteousness. Ethics and theology must be pursued as separate studies, one dealing with doctrines and creeds and the other dealing with codes of conduct; but in life each becomes the complement of the other, one emphasizing duty to God, and the other placing emphasis on duty to humanity. When Joseph the Egyptian slave plead for purity he made his plea in the name of ethics (faithfulness to his master), and in the name of religion (faithfulness to his God.) Gen. 39:9. The Decalogue begins with Theology and ends with Ethics. The Sermon on the Mount combines theology and ethics, making of two laws one complete law providing for the salvation of man. The love of God and the love of man, operating together, create a condition productive of eternal life. The first of the thirteen articles of our faith is purely theological; the last one is sweepingly ethical. Through skepticism and arrogance a person may be led to deny the existence of God; but nothing short of depravity or despair can bring one to a denial of the existence of goodness.
CONSCIENCE
Conscience is our ethical judgment resulting from our knowledge, our mental certainty as to what is right and what is wrong. The race-conscience was born in the Garden of Eden. Its birthday was the date of the fall; up to that time it could consistently be said of the human family, consisting of one couple, as it can still be said of every child, that it is neither moral nor immoral; it is merely non-moral, having no knowledge of good and evil from which to make moral judgment; it is innocent, though not necessarily harmless. Ethical experience brought into existence a moral responsibility which has increased just to the extent that the light of moral truth has been reflected on the mind of mankind; always and ever bright in spots and dim in places. In the main, the difference between the conscience of a cruel race of savages and the conscience of a kind and cultured people is a difference in moral intelligence. Crime is evidence of moral decay; habitual criminals, no matter how physically perfect and intellectually strong they may be, are moral cripples, and the danger of trusting each to carry loads of ethical responsibility becomes at once apparent. Since the conscience of the individual, in its birth and development, follows the course of the race conscience, it is governed by the same laws.
618 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
We shall consider seven of the laws governing the conscience. And this examination may help in the every day living of a life that is full of material for character growth, the highest aim of learning.
1. Personal Interest Clouds Conscience: Nations are loath to sign a compact, much less to give a bond, that they will not justify in themselves what they condemn in others. It is quite impossible for parents to see the faults of their own children as clearly as they see the faults of the children of their neighbors. Not many guests can see the hypocrisy of a host as clearly as did Jesus at the feast given by the Pharisee. Even in our dealings with the Lord our ethical vision is sometimes dimmed by the dust of dollars. The "conscientious" payment of tithing might be modified by putting it to the test recommended by Elder James E. Talmage at a general conference. The suggestion was to this effect: Calculate our income to be tithed as though we were going to receive a ten per cent dividend on it at the tithing office. In ethics this personal interest is called bias, and this law governing the influence of self interest is sometimes stated thus: Bias bends moral judgment.
2. Prejudice Pushes Conscience. "Away with the Indian." "The only good Indians are dead ones." These expressions indicate the state of mind that would precede the conscientious persecution and even the killing of the red man. Here the ethical judgment is pushed from an upright attitude by what is known as prejudice, or pre-judgment. A recognition of this law of conscience has led to an almost excessive demand concerning the qualifications of jurors. The formation of an opinion or pre-judgment on the case disqualifies a person as a juror. When Jesus said, "Judge not," he warned against prejudice. And when he declared that men would kill his disciples and think they were doing God's service, he evidently had in mind the power of prejudice in pushing the conscience to a low level.
3. Indulgence Enervates Conscience. Few men are more often quoted than Pope, and few of his statements are more frequently repeated than the following:
"Vice is a monster of so frightful mien As to be hated, needs but to be seen; Yet seen too oft, familiar with her face, We first endure, then pity, then embrace."
GUIDE LESSONS FOR JANUARY 619
Indulgence is any form of vice; it is to the conscience what hacking on a rock is to a keen knife blade; it dulls if it does not ruin.
4. Custom Controls Conscience. As a rule it is considered right to do what everybody is doing; and sooner or later, with rare exceptions, the conscience of the individual conforms to the conscience of the group whether it be in matters of fashion, business, religion, or recreation. Individual ideality is always affected consciously or unconsciously by the quality of the ideals held up by popular sentiment and community conduct. The problem of keeping the good individual conscience from being swallowed up by a bad community conscience brings us to another law of conscience.
5. Law Lifts Conscience. Law as a rule is the crystallization of the ideality of the best members of society. Law represents ideas as well as emotions. It is the product of deliberation as well as of desires. It calls for a conscience that cuts and cuts deeply when wrong attempts to invade the sacred citadel of right. The Greeks were wont to say: "Hitch your chariots to the stars and let the Gods pull you." We may consistently say: "Fasten your conduct to the law and let the right lift you." When we speak of law we mean good law, law tested by the affirmative answer to the question: Will the world be made better by this law being obeyed.
6. Education Elevates the Conscience. The culture of conscience leads to a condition where wrong-doing is accompanied with so much mental pain that evil will not be indulged in, a condition in which the doing of right will be accompanied with so much pleasure that it dominates our desires and absorbs our efforts. It has been said, "Where ignorance is bliss, it is folly to be wise." In the light of our theology we are committed to saying; ethically, "Where there is opportunity to learn, it is unethical to be ignorant; where a cultivated conscience is attainable, it is wrong to have a crude one." The trustworthiness of conscience depends upon the information behind it. Conscience is one's best guide; but that "best" may be very poor. Conscience must be followed, but it is not infallible; our inner right may be an outer wrong. Our moral judgment should be questioned always when it conflicts with recognized superior intelligence or authority. How quickly Saul questioned his ethical judgment when he
620 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
found who Jesus was. With him then it was, not what his conscience would have him do but what Jesus would have him do. If children should be trained in the intelligent revision of conscience to make it fit in with parental conscience or ethical judgment, many a heart ache would be prevented.
7. Passion Paralyzes Conscience. The first criminal pleaded greed and anger as excuses for his crime, but the excuses were not accepted. If at the moment of his infamous act his conscience was paralyzed, he was responsible for its inertness. The over-urge of appetite, the allurements of ultra ambition, the fires of jealousy, the earthquakes of anger—each strikes with paralyzing power at the conscience. Conscience needs and deserves the shelter of self control; character building must fortify against brain storms.
Questions and Problems
1. Illustrate the distinction between religion and ethics.
2. Which of the ten commandments are in the main theological? Which are mostly or wholly ethical?
3. Which part of the Lord's Prayer is strikingly ethical?
4. Show the ethical elements of the thirteen articles of Latter-day Saint faith?
5. What is conscience?
6. State seven of the laws governing conscience.
7. When should we question our conscience?
8. To what extent may we be justly held accountable for the mistakes we make in following our conscience?
9. Illustrate from your own observation the seventh law of conscience mentioned in this lesson.
10. State the procedure suggested for obtaining an unbiased ethical judgment as to what amount we should pay tithing on.
GUIDE LESSONS FOR JANUARY 621
LESSON II Work and Business (Second Week in January)
TEACHERS' TOPIC FOR JANUARY—ACTIVITIES OF THE RELIEF SOCIETY
Purposes of the Work of the Visiting Teacher
I. To be a representative of the unfortunate and sorrowful. At the second meeting of the first Relief Society, the mother of the Prophet Joseph Smith so touched the hearts of the members of the society that they contributed their jewelry that it might be sold to aid the poor. There was then need for some one to seek out the sorrowing and distressed; for the members asked, How can we know who is in need? Thus it was that the visiting teacher was singled out to be a representative of the poor.
II. To be a representative of the Relief Society and its officers. Visiting teachers are authorized to carry messages in behalf of the Relief Society. They thus become the representatives of the organization and the officers of the organization.
III. To be the servant of those who give relief to the needy. People contributing to teachers for charity relief give through the organization, not to it. So the teacher serves the giver by making his contribution valuable; first, by seeking out the poor who are in need; secondly, by causing the money to be pooled that there may be enough to do real good.
IV. To be a friend having charitable and watchful care over the families in her district. It is her business to know the condition of the families in her visiting district. If they are stricken with illness, or if death occurs in the family, or if there is necessity for furnishing food, clothing, or any of the other necessities of life, she should know these wants, in order that they may be communicated to the ward president.
V. To carry the special message provided by the General Board. The teacher stands ready to carry any special message to the people. It may come from her ward president; it may be from the General Board. For a number of years the General Board has furnished a special message under the caption of the Teachers' Topic.
622 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
LESSON III Literature (Third Week in January)
BIOGRAPHY
George Middleton, the son of George and Ida V. Middleton, was born in Patterson, New Jersey, October 27, 1880. He received his B. A. Degree from Columbia University in 1902. In October, 1911, he married Miss Fola LaFollette of Madison, Wisconsin. Mr. Middleton is the author of the following plays: "The Cavalier," 1902; "The Wife's Strategy," 1905; "The Sinner," 1907; "The House of a Thousand Candles," 1908; "Rosalind at Red Gate," 1910; "The Enemy," 1911; "The Prodigal Judge," 1913; "Criminals," 1914; "Hit-the-Trail-Holliday," 1915; "Collusion," 1916; "Polly with a Past," 1917; "The Cave Girl," 1919; "Adam and Eva," 1919; "The Light of the World," 1920; "Cercle," 1922; "The Unknown Lady," 1923; "The Other Rose," 1923; "The Road Together," 1924; "Accused," 1925; "Blood Money," 1927. These plays have been produced throughout the United States. Mr. Middleton is also the author of a number of one-act plays produced at various little theatres. Some of Mr. Middleton's best books are: Nowadays, Embers, Tradition, Possession, The Road Together, and Masks. Mr. Middleton is a frequent contributor to magazines on subjects relating to drama and literature. He has been literary editor of LaFollette's Weekly since 1912. At the present time he is president of the Dramatists' Guild of Authors' League of America.
NOWADAYS—BY GEORGE MIDDLETON
The plot of Nowadays centers around Diana Dawson, the daughter of a family consisting of a father, a mother, a son and Diana. The play opens at the Christmas Season. In the home Mrs. Dawson, assisted by Nellie, the maid, is putting the Christmas decorations in place when she is interrupted by the entrance of her daughter who has been in New York for two years struggling to satisfy a soul's craving to become a sculptor. Mr. Dawson, who is a conservative, thinks Diana should stay at home and assist her mother. The mother, on the contrary, who had the same yearning as a young woman to express herself in art, is not only in favor of Diana working in New York, but has gone one step further by supplying her with financial help her father refuses to give her because she is a daughter. Mrs. Dawson is dressing paper dolls and painting their clothes with an elegance
GUIDE LESSONS FOR JANUARY 623
that gives them market value. The money obtained is sent to Diana to assist her in her work.
The editor of the town paper is Peter Rowe, a man who has recognized Diana's talent and has encouraged her to realize her gift. They are good friends and Diana takes advantage of this fact to have Peter see that her baggage is brought to her home safely. Before he arrives she has had a conversation with her father, who believes that she has given up her foolish notion of living in New York and has come home to stay. She assures him that she has not and surprises him by telling him that after all, he has had something to do with her desire to seek a center where she can study. The following dialogue takes place:
Diana (Not taking him too seriously): Why, daddy, how could I stay at home when it was you who made me go?
Dawson (Bewildered): Me?
Diana (Whimsically): Yes. You and the turtle.
Dawson: The turtle?
Sam: She's crazy, all right.
Diana (Fancifully throughout): Yes, the dear, dear turtle. I've laughed so many times when I think of what little things determine our lives. Do you remember that day—long ago—when I was a real little lady, and Sammy wasn't such a gentleman? Of course you don't. Nellie was sick and mother had taken Sammy to the dentist for something and you had to stay home and take care of me. You ought to remember that day: you said you had such a headache when it was over. You were so happy taking a woman's place that you fell asleep from exhaustion. That was my chance. Destiny opened the door and I went out into the garden. It was all flowers and mud. And, daddy, there on the path I saw a turtle: a poor, lonely little turtle; oh, so lonely I felt sorry for it—because you had mother and Sammy and me, and the little turtle hadn't anybody. Somehow I wanted the turtle to have some little turtles so she wouldn't be so lonely. You see, you ought to have told me where turtles and babies came from.
Later Peter Rowe puts in an appearance much to Diana's delight. Peter is patiently waiting for a moment when he can be alone with Diana, for he has something of importance to say to her.
Diana: Why don't you come to New York?
Peter: People see nothing but electric lights there. Here occasionally we can see the stars.
Diana (Going to him): What's the real reason you won't come?
Peter (Eyeing her): Some day, when you're a great success, I'll tell you.
624 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
Diana: I'll wager you won't even then. But I've half a mind to be a success just for that.
Peter: I'll wait.
Diana: Won't you tell me now? (He shakes his head.) Won't you tell me a wee little bit of something now?
Peter: Yes, Diana. One of the reasons I drove out—I almost forgot it, seeing you again. Come to the window. (He pulls aside the curtain.) Look across the lake. See it in the moonlight, three miles across? That's gone up since you went away.
Diana: The dome of the new capitol?
Peter: Yes. The architect had a sense of humor. Made it so beautiful every time even I pass it I feel like taking off my hat and praying. Tough on the politicians.
Diana: Do you feel as though you were praying when you see something beautiful?
Peter: Yes; but I do a heap of cussing.
Diana (Mock seriously): Father's terra-cotta has damns written all over it.
Peter (Pointing): There's a vacant pedestal in front of the approach—like an altar. And a statue is to go on it.
Diana: A statue? Is this where I come in?
Peter: You've got me. It's to be symbolic.
Diana: Something everybody will disagree about?
Peter: Yesterday "The Times" heard they'd decided to have an open competition; secret of course, you know. I thought it would be a fine thing for this burg if "the female of the species"—
Diana (Joyfully): Oh, Peter, wouldn't it be a joke if—
Peter (Quickly): An awful joke on your father.
Diana: But wouldn't mother be happy!
Peter: By the way, it was her old friend, Oliver Hardman, who told me. He's coming out to see her tomorrow, he said. But you mustn't tell him your intentions because he's been appointed on the Legislative Committee as judge. He's down to get a line on it. I pumped him a bit. I know what he thinks appropriate.
Diana: What?
Peter: Something they can call "Democracy." No relation to any of our present parties.
Diana (With a flash, glancing at the newspaper Mrs. Dawson has left on the table): "Democracy! (She gazes rapt before her.) I've got it now. I see it, don't you?
Peter: Never have yet in this country.
GUIDE LESSONS FOR JANUARY 625
Diana: That's it!
Peter: Put me wise.
Diana: Oh, I won't tell even you till I see if there's room for it. (Significantly.) But it's got a woman in it.
Mrs. Dawson wishes to return to New York with her daughter and share her attic that is located up five flights of stairs. She tries to explain to her husband that having made a fortune they should go into the city where, with Diana, they may enjoy the art of New York, but her husband does not see things that way. It has never entered his mind that his wife's housekeeping has grown monotonous and wearisome throughout the years. Much to his surprise she takes a firm stand and goes with her daughter, leaving her husband at home. With his son and wife and a baby that apparently is born during her absence. Every week Mrs. Dawson writes to her husband urging him to come to her but he stubbornly refuses. After an interval of months Mrs. Dawson receives a reply to one of her letters in which Mr. Dawson says: "Belle, I am coming to see you. You are as stubborn as I am."
Mrs. Dawson: "I wonder if your father knows I just couldn't touch his check."
Diana: "Of course he knows."
Mrs. Dawson (Going to her drawer and taking out a legal document): Every time I need a good laugh I look at the statement he drew up when I came here with you. (Reading) Bill of Service. One wife at $25.00 a month for twenty-five years—exclusive of gifts for clothes, food and masculine protection, $7,500, deposited to Belle Dawson's credit for whims, foolishness, and Paris.
Into this somewhat embarrassing situation Mr. Hardman comes, who receives the following greeting from Diana:
Diana: If ever you want to find out your real friends live up five flights of stairs without an elevator.
During the winter Mrs. Dawson has enjoyed her daughter very much. Diana has completed her design for the capitol building and submitted it to the committee. The presence of Mr. Hardman, who is a member of the committee, brings to mind the statue, so Mrs. Dawson very naturally asks about the decision of the committee. Mr. Hardman, enjoying the mother's eagerness, says: I have two surprises for you, Diana. And then he remarks, You have won. The news is so overwhelming that Diana doubts it, but the
626 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
mother, getting the full significance of Mr. Hardman's remarks, exclaims: Dearest, you've won, you've won! Oh, my girl, I knew it, I knew it! Diana weeps for joy and Hardman, placing his hand on Mrs. Dawson, says tenderly, Let her. When Diana has regained some of her self-possession she says: Forgive me for seeming like a foolish girl. The mother talks of what this success will mean to her daughter and says that she, too, has great satisfaction for, says she: I haven't failed in my motherhood. You are beautiful all through. I'm so happy you have what has passed me by, so happy.
Mr. Hardman (Tenderly): Belle, I'd give up all my position and reputation to be able to talk like that to a daughter of my own.
Mrs. Dawson: You've missed something, too?
Mr. Hardman: A great deal. Did you ever notice how everybody in the world is wanting something the other fellow has?
Diana: The statue seems so unimportant all of a sudden.
Mrs. Dawson: There now. I've robbed you of the joy of success.
Diana: No. Only how can any artist in the world ever create more beauty than life itself makes?
Mr. Hardman: If you feel that, you know the first great secret of success.
Then comes Diana's second surprise which is a visit from Peter Rowe. As Hardman opens the door Peter exclaims, Diana. He stands looking only at her as she takes his hand at the same time repeating his name. Finally Mrs. Dawson remarks: I'm here, too, Peter. The conversation drifts on and Diana, knowing Peter's devotion to her and realizing that he has not proposed because he feels that he cannot provide adequately for her, breaks into the situation by telling him that with a prize of $25,000 she can pay for the marble for the statue and yet there will be sufficient left for them to live in Paris as husband and wife and that it will give him time to complete his novel. She confesses to him that she got the idea for the statue while talking with him. Yes. Democracy. I got the thought that day when you were by my side. It was the result of all we had talked over. I tried to catch it in marble. A man and a woman marching side by side, step by step. I've broken away from the old form that made man lead far ahead with the woman trailing behind.
GUIDE LESSONS FOR JANUARY 627
Peter: You put them on the same line.
Diana: Both looking far ahead.
Peter: With hope in their eyes.
Diana: Yet as I modeled them both, I felt they were not complete without—without—
Peter: The child.
Diana: See how it's carried between them. Not the mother alone, but the father, too, holding the little hands as they climb up the incline—.
Peter: Together.
Diana: Together.
Peter: It's wonderful.
Diana: Peter, doesn't that tell you all my heart is asking? Shall I be kept from my right to that because you haven't a lot of money when I have enough now to start our lives together? What right had you to be silent when it concerned my life, too? Shall you and I waste our years of youth because you wouldn't speak? Peter, we belong to each other. I want you. I love you.
Then they tell the mother they have become engaged. They wish her to accompany them to Paris but she replies: I stayed by, waiting till you two were ready. I didn't know when you'd fix it up. You were both so foolish about it. I knew I'd have to lose you, Diana. I've gone as far as a mother can go with her girl. It will come to you both, some day. I've held on longer than most mothers.
Betty has come along with Peter Rowe to New York. Mrs. Dawson hunts her up and learns from her that Sam has left her, and that she needs help with the baby. Mrs. Dawson realizes that there is work for her to do in helping to rear her son's child. Betty says if she can only grow to be like Diana she will be perfectly happy, but that she cannot do the job herself, that she needs Mrs. Dawson to assist her. At that moment Mr. Dawson knocks at the door. As he enters he says: You win, Belle. We're going to Paris. To which Mrs. Dawson replies, smiling sweetly, You and I are going back home, Will.
Problems Presented in the Play
Women are justified in developing their God-given talents provided they recognize their righteous obligations toward their family and their home. The playwright's business is to present the problem, not to solve it. If he presents his problem adequately and artistically he may be said to be successful. He is under no obligation to answer or solve the problem. That is the business of society to whom he appeals.
628 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
Questions
1. What periods of a woman's life, provided she marries, are freest to do work apart from her home or outside of her home.
2. Name some women you know of who have made worthwhile contributions to life in one way or another before marriage.
3. Name some women who have made noted contributions to life in one way or another, after marriage.
4. In what ways have modern inventions assisted women in having more time to develop their talents, or give service apart from or out of the home?
5. Do you think that nowadays a woman can rear her family, take care of her husband, and develop the talents with which God has blessed her for the development of herself and the betterment of the world? If so, why? If not, why?
6. Discuss any phase of this play that appeals to you as being worthy of discussion.
LESSON IV Social Service (Fourth Week in January)
THE CHILD-STUDY COURSE
Lesson 10. Prevalence and Treatment of Sense Defects.
(Based on Chapter XI, The Child: His Nature and His Needs.)
In the last lesson we considered the general principles of mental hygiene as they apply to the child. In the present lesson we are going to see how mental health and progress in school are dependent upon normal vision, proper hearing, sound teeth, right posture, correct diet, etc. This excellent chapter, in many ways the best one in the text, is written by Dr. C. E. A. Winslow, Professor of Public Health, at Yale University, one of the most eminent authorities in the United States. The author's main point is summed up in the apt phrase: "By taking thought a man cannot add a cubit to his stature, but he can add pounds to his child's weight." A. Defective Vision and Hearing. Of the physical defects which rendered more than forty percent of the drafted men unfit for military service during the late war, visual and auditory handicaps were among the most numerous. GUIDE LESSONS FOR JANUARY 629 It is significant, too, that these two defects correspond to the two main senses by which the human being deals with, and makes successful or unsuccessful adjustment to the world about him. One of the marvels of our civilization is the extent to which permanent defects of vision can be overcome by the proper use of lenses, in the form of spectacles. It is probably safe to estimate that among literate people, about five percent of all children, and twenty-five percent of adults wear glasses. The school boy is no longer regarded as a "sissy," merely because he wears glasses. Only a false pride—usually on the part of the mother—would now deter a child from wearing properly fitted glasses, should he need them. It is definitely known that much of the child's school retardation, especially failure to read, can be traced to uncorrected eye difficulties. The same can be said of hearing. Many a child loses interest in school, gets discouraged, runs away, and finally becomes delinquent because in the beginning he could not hear the teacher and the other children clearly. While defective hearing is less responsive to correction than is defective vision, yet it is amazing what can be done by intelligent parents and teachers, if the child's defect is discovered in time. It might be of interest to our readers to know that one of our Latter-day Saint scholars, Dr. Harvey Fletcher, now with the Western Electric Company, New York City, has recently gained national eminence through his invention of the audiometer, a device by which the hearing of school children can be accurately determined in a very simple, reliable way. The device was commented on favorably in the columns of the Literary Digest several months ago. It has been installed in the public schools of Salt Lake City. Questions 1. To what extent are scarlet fever, and the other children's diseases the cause of deafness and ear trouble in children? What is significant about this fact, for the prevention of deafness? 2. Why, until recently, was a school boy wearing glasses dubbed a "sissy?" 3. Can you cite local examples of school failure and character mal-development due to eye or ear defects? 4. How many children in your community are too blind, or too deaf to attend public school? What is the theory and practice of the State School at Ogden, in the education and training of deaf and blind children? 5. Does your school systematically examine children for eye and ear troubles? If not, why not? 630 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE B. Other Physical Handicaps. In an age of soft foods and excessive sweets, it is imperative that the child's teeth be kept clean and free from decay. Regular brushing and periodical dental examinations are the best preventive measures known. While the school can do much to help children in the regular use of the tooth brush by means of tooth brush drills, lessons in hygiene, etc., the primary responsibility must rest upon the parents. They can do much by reward and encouragement, by furnishing the child with an appropriate tooth brush and dentifrice, to be kept in a proper place and used with religious regularity. Decayed teeth are like diseased tonsils and adenoids; they are the source of an infection which pours a toxic poison into the blood stream. The ultimate effect of this poisonous substance is to lower the threshold of physical and mental resistance, thus increasing fatigue and making learning difficult. It is axiomatic that healthy minds exist in healthy bodies. Character, morality, mental health, and will power are dependent upon physical health. One of the most interesting post-war health movements has as its objective a reduction in morbidity and morality due to heart disease. In many of our cities, notably Chicago, Cardiac Societies, as they are called, have undertaken to educate public sentiment in regard to the nature, causation, and treatment of cardiac disorders. In many school centers, they have gone so far as to finance special classes for children with weak hearts and to work out a diet, a curriculum, and a scheme of recreation adapted to the needs of children who cannot, at least during their tender years, engage in strenuous, competitive activities of the average school and play ground. These experiments have already demonstrated remarkable possibilities in dealing with, and in many cases overcoming a physical handicap which was once regarded as instrumountable. The movement referred to above is, however, only a small part of the great public health movement which has yielded for the public schools: (a) periodic medical and dental examinations, (b) school nurses, (c) health drills, (d) instruction in personal hygiene, etc. Questions 1. What, if any, is the attention paid to the needs of children with heart disorders in your school or community? 2. What should be the place of the school in the nutrition of the school child? Do you think, for example, school lunches are a good thing? Why or why not? GUIDE LESSONS FOR JANUARY 631 3. What is the status of health work in the schools of your community? Do you have a school physician, a school dentist, a school nurse? 4, How far should the public schools go in diagnosing or even treating sense defects and other physical handicaps in school children? Utah Autumn By Dowers Cornwall There's haze that dreams on the Utah hills, And the trees of green drip gold; Where sunflakes dance on quavering boughs, There is scent of leafy mould. Come mellowed, mauve-dusted, gypsy days, With coo] whispers stirring through, A burst of red is the canyon side, The sky is a bowl of blue. There comes a quiver of rainbow days, Come days with a rusty gleam, Days that are real, and are yet unreal, Like the pattern of a dream. Breezes are chanting a sad farewell, There's a waning plaint and sigh, Sweet prelude of the long sleeping time, Wearied summer's lullaby. An Old Wagon Cover 'By Josephine G. Moench Flora sat by the window with her sewing in her lap and her hands lying idle as she gazed with a serious face out of the window. The first little blustery snow storm had come very early; and as Flora watched the wind blowing the snow about, she wondered seriously just how she and Will were going to get the children's clothing for the winter. In the early days of Utah Flora and Will were pioneers to a little town south of Salt Lake. Everyone was finding it very difficult to get food and clothing; but Flora, being an expert seamstress, had, by a great deal of planning, kept the children comfortably clothed up until then, and by handing down and making over she would be able to make outer garments for them all. But the underwear? By any stretch of her imagination she could not expect that which they had worn through the year and which had been mended until the original garment was beyond recognition, to last through this winter. She remembered on so many occasions how she had trusted the future to providence, which had not failed her; so, with hope springing in her heart, she took up her sewing, thinking the while, that the beautiful Indian summer would come after the storm and there would be no need for worry until that was over. Hearing the sound of wagon wheels, Flora looked up to see a covered wagon stopping at the gate; the driver climbed out and walked briskly to the door. "Is this Mrs. Thomas?" asked the gentleman. "Yes," answered Flora. "I have been told," he said, "that you are an expert needle woman and have come to see if you will mend our wagon covers. This sudden storm has made us realize that we must have our wagon covers in good condition before we continue our journey to California. One of the covers is too light weight for traveling through such wilderness and if you are willing we will give you the cover to pay for your work." Willing? Was ever anyone so fertunate? The light weight wagon cover would do to make the children's underwear. With a song in her heart Flora set to work and conscientiously mended the wagon covers. The traveler was profuse i in his appreciation and thanks, and went on his way rejoicing over his storm-proof covers. Flora had sewed many fine materials but never before had AN OLD WAGON COVER 633 she been more careful in cutting not to waste, and more absorbed in her task. After bleaching the finished garments on the grass, in the good old-country way, she washed and ironed them carefully. Was it magic that had transformed the old wagon cover into the neat pile of underwear? No. Just a woman's skill combined with a mother's faith and a mother's love. A Common Prayer By May E. Lillie Oh, Father in heaven I thank Thee so— For this, our restful bungalow, For the grass in the yard where the lines swing high, Filled with clothes that are hung to dry. How clean they look, how fresh and sweet, Shirts and tablecloth, towel and sheet, And even the wholesome underwear, Fluttering high in the summer air. How glad I am for the vines that grow, Around this peaceful bungalow; Glad for the musical strains that soar Afar to Thy throne from our open door; In praise to Thee my voice is lifted For daughters dear whom Thy love has gifted, And for these others my voice I raise In lasting, joyful songs of praise. Special Announcement The Reorganization of the General Board of the Relief Society The reorganization of the General Board of the Relief Society occurred on October 7, 1928, at the General Conference, held in Salt Lake City. The Magazine recognizes the reorganization by printing the names of the new officers under the caption of the “General Board'' on the first page of editorials. "The November issue of the Magazine was far advanced when the reorganization took place; consequently it was impossible to do more than make an announcement. A good deal of the space of the December and January issues will be devoted to the reorganization. Vacuum Seal SHELLED WALNUTS — A THE BRICK MAN Says: "We Make Something For AIl" Being manufacturers of Face and Common Brick, Sewer Pipe, Drain Tile, Building Blocks, Flue Lining, Wall Coping, Roof, Floor, Mantel, Bath and Kitchen Tile, we can provide comfort and sanitation for every community. If you are figuring on reclamation of lands requiring drainage, sewer systems for sanitation, or erecting buildings that will last forever, get in touch with THE SALT LAKE PRESSED BRICK COMPANY 319 Kearns Bldg. Salt Lake City, Utah Phones: Wasatch 950—Wasatch 951 When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine COLD WEATHER WILL SOON BE HERE! How about that Nationally Advertised Round Oak Moistair Heating System YOU WERE GOING TO HAVE INSTALLED? Saves cleaning and doctor bills. The health and comfort of your family is determined by the kind of furnace you install in your home more than anything else. Gas and smoke proof, Ask any of oun 2,000 satisfied customers in Salt Lake City and you will buy no other. Less Fuel—More Heat—Wear Longer. See the JENKINS FURNACE now on display in show rooms— used continuously for 38 years and still in good condition, FREE ESTIMATES AS TO COST OF INSTALLATION "Trade With Your Friends" Modern Furniture Co. C. E. Davey, Manager — NOTICE TO SUBSCRIBERS most. THIS VOLUME OF THE At Less MAGAZINE ends soon, now than half is the time to renew your: subscription to insure you of a full volume for next year; much trouble is prevented by subscribing early as _ back numbers are hard to obtain. Send your name in NOW as delay usually means "I FORGOT" then it often is too late to get the number you want —— When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine 234 SOUTH STATE Edward E. Jenkins, President PHONES: WASATCH 7187—WASATCH 6205 Jesse B. Sharp, Vice-President Important to Relief Society Members Sisters, THIS IS OUR MAGAZINE, it does not belong to any one, but to all Relief Society Members. Those who advertise in Our Magazine are helping us publish it and thus they are aiding our Cause. We in turn should be loyal to them. We are careful in selecting our advertisers and can recommend them to our readers; THEIR goods are GOOD GOODS and their prices are right; why not fell them we appreciate their good-will toward our Cause, by giving them a chance to supply our needs. Forgive your enemies but support your friends. Yy Christmas Cards REAL VALUES YOU CANNOT PASS UP 21 exquisitely engraved greeting cards with beautifully lined envelopes, assorted for only $1.00 postpaid. 25 greeting cards, including printing your name in type to match greeting, with lined or unlined envelopes, $2.00 postpaid. Order Now! Early orders will avoid disappointment. The Deseret News Press 27-33 Richards Street Salt Lake City, Utah 2 When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine PRES. HEBER J GRANT CHURCH OFFICE BLUG E SoO TEMPLE (a Eas eA \ Your own home is the best place to have the washing done—amidst conditions that you know are clean and sanitary. The most satisfactory, economical and dependable way is to let the Maytag do your washing for you. The Maytag seamless, cast-aluminum tub and gyrafoam action flush out all the dirt, gently, thoroughly, quickly, by water action alone. It is easier on the clothes. The most delicate garAWashday Servant That is ments are washed hand-carefully, the grimiest clothes are washed thoroughly. PHONE for a TRIAL WASHING Let the Maytag do your next washing. Try it on dainty lingerie, soiled clothes, heavy blankets— anything. If it doesn't sell itself— don't keep it. DEFERRED PAYMENTS YOU'LL NEVER MISS Maytas Intermountain Co. Distributors 211 South State Sireet. PHONE Wasatch 1356 There is a Maytag Dealer Near You Salt Lake City Aluminum Washer — When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine  Southern Pacific Lines  Special Round Trip Winter Fares cred TO CALIFORNIA POINTS To LOS ANGELES AND RETURN BOTH WAYS AO, via SAN FRANCISCO  To LOS ANGELES via SAN FRANCISCO returning direct or route reversed................... Proportionately low fares from all other points in UTAH, IDAHO and MONTANA. STOPOVERS ALLOWED AT ALL POINTS. TICKETS ON SALE DAILY—OCT. Lst TO MAY 15th FFINAL RETURN LIMIT 8 MONTHS FROM DATE OF SALE For further information CALL, WRITE or PHONE PRESS BANCROFT, GENERAL AGENT PHONES WAS. 3008—3078 Select your Family's Christmas Present NOW! We have just received carload shipments for Xmas delivery of CULBRANSEN "Registering" PIANOS Easy Terms = in ouch vist our meer Freight Paid store Glen Bros.-Roberts Piano Co. Ogden Salt Lake City Pocatello When Buying Mention Relief Society Magasina 41 SO. MAIN ST. Straight pianos Registering player pianos SALT LAKE CITY $295, $350 $450, $580, $615, $700 Ask your dealer for the famous Z. C. M. I. Factory-Made MOUNTAINEER. OVERALLS For men, youths, boys and children. 9-0z. Copper-Riveted WAIST OVERALLS For men and boys. Wear 'em and let 'er buck. Guaranteed for Quality, Fit and Service ALLOVERS and PLAY SUITS for Children Tasty Nutritious Purity Vegetized Whole Wheat Wafers Vitamins A-B-C-D-E and 16 minerals of 5 fresh vegetables combined with pure whole what make them good to eat and better for you. Contain 5 fresh vegetables MADE IN SALT LAKE BY the Purity Biscuit Co As a Xmas Present for any member of the family, nothing is more appreciated and useful than an Electric Floor Lamp. For a full assortment of up-to-date beautiful lamps, at very moderate prices see Modern Electric Company Wasatch 2307 THE PURITY BISCUIT CO. South State Street Y — When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine Contain Fresh Vegutabtas at very moderate prices see  L. D. S. GARMETS WINTER NUMBERS Selected from our extensive line of L. D. 8S. Garments we suggest the following numbers of winter wear: No. 1—New Style, ribbed ligt. Wet. Cotton with rayon silk stripe. An excellent ladies' number No. 2—Old Style, ribbed lgt. Wet. Cotton, our standard sum. Ner wet. No. 8—Ribbed med. Wet. Cotton, bleached Our all season number No. 4—Ribbed heavy wet., unbleached cot. Our double back number No. 5—Part wool, ribbed unbleached. Our best seliing wool number No. 6—High grade rayon tricosham silk. Ticular people No. 7—Pure worsted wool with silkine merc. Cotton. Our best med. Winter No... No. 8—Ribbed heavy wet. Unbleached cot. And wool. Our 50% Wool number No. 9—Ribbed med. Weight, Wool and cotton. Our light weight winter number No. 10—100% pure worsted wool, med. Wgt. The ideal garment for those who want all wool 5.75 4.25 In ordering, be sure to specify whether old or new style garments, three quarter or ankle. Length legs, short or long sleeves are wanted. Also give bust measure, height and weight to insure perfect fit. Postage prepaid. ORDER BY MAIL OR CALL AT STORE—THE ORIGINAL UTAH WOOLEN MILLS Briant Stringham, Manager Richards Street 4 Block South of Temple Gate USH Utah Beet Sugar For All Purposes | 100% PURE—100% FINE Boost and Buy Local Products When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine = eseerrapmenseenn —_ mo L. D. S. GARMENT 7 Good grade, and well made. When ordering, state Size, New or Old Style, and if for man or lady. Postage prepaid. Sample on request. 142 Flat Weave, Lt. Weight... G.95 264 Rayon Silk 33.50 208 Carded Cotton, Med, Lt...... 1.45 217 Fine Lisle, Rayon Stripe.... 2.25 82 Combed Cotton, Light Wt. 1.50 748 Unbleached Cot., Hvy. Wt... 2.00 222 Cotton, Rayon Stripes........ 1.65 258 Double Card. Cot., Med. Wt. 1.95 Ae agi mo ake be = 628 Merc. Lisle, Light Wt......... 250 nbieache ot., Ex. Hvy. 108 Unbleached Cot., Med. Wt... 1.88 1072 Mixed Wool and Cotton...... 4.00 BARTON & CO. Established in Utah 45 Years '142 WEST SOUTH TEMPLE ST. Salt Lake City, Utah. 4 G Special Sunday Bricks and Neepelitan Bricks 2e pt.,; S Hy) SOc at. Call Your Pu NCHE ad| Keeley's Denier. Extra packed in fee. Serve Keeley’s ICECREAM CANDY-CAKE pede ie TEMPLE AND BURIAL CLOTHES COMPLETE SUITS FOR MEN AND WOMEN Variety of Grades and Prices. Prompt and Careful Attention To Mail—Telephone—Telegraph Orders Open Daily, 9 a. M.—5 p. M. GENBRAL BOARD RELIEF SOCIPTY Phone Wasatch 2286, 29 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah | L. D. S. GARMENTS | Direct From Factory You are guaranteed unusual wear and satisfaction from Cutler Garments. They are made from the best loag wearing, two combed yarns. No. 68 Ribbed ex. Light Cotton No, 61 Ribbed Med. Hvy. UnKnee length.................... S.76 bleached Double Back.. 1.70 No. 68 Old style or new style No. 56 Ribbed Hvy. Cotton # or long legs................ 85 bleached ou. Ee eeeene 2.18 No. 74 Ribbed light wt. Cot....110 No. 55 Ribbed Hvy. Got. UnNo. 84 Rib. Mercerized Lisle.... 1.85 bleached Double Back 2,15 No. 76 Ribbed lit. Wt. Lisle.... 1.85 No. 27 Ribbed Med. Wt. 50% No. 64 Ribbed Med. Lt. Cot. 1.35 Wool No. 62 Ribbed Med. Hyvy. No. 39 Ribbed Hvy. Wt. 50% OO 1.79 No. 37 wieoha Med. Wt. 60% E e ed. - WHITE TEMPLE PANTS Wool and Siik Stripe... 4.65 8 oz. Heavy Back..............$1.75 ....$1, UNDERWEAR DUOFOLD UNDERWEAR 100% Wool, Salmon or Natural 100% Wool outside, Cotton in Color $5.35 side. Natural Color.................$4.95 in ordering garments please state if for men or women and if old or new styles are wanted. Also give bust, height and weight. SPECIAL—When you order three pair of garments or hose at one time we allow you a 15% discount on the third pair. Marking 16c. Postage Prepaid. C H. G. A wtiler's 237-8 Const. Bldg. Ants 34SoMain GARMENTS LONG WEARING CLOTHES —— — When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine Ask for one of our folders describing the different services we offer. LAUNDRY Hyland 190 Distinctive Work Office 319 S. Main St. "I advise young men and women to save the most precious years of their lives by securing a business education, that they may go forth fully equipped early in life."—Andrew Carnegie. —the practical courses in this school prepare you for rapid advancement. L. D. S. Business College Write today for full particulars. ENTER ANY MONDAY — ———— "EASY-WAY" The O. P. Skaggs System has been christened the "easy-way" to secure table supplies and truly they are wide aisles. No gates or other obstructions, courteous and helpful attendants all help to change a dreaded ordeal into an anticipated pleasure. 0. P SKAGGS Cfficient Service FOOD System  When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine ——CONTENTS
President Clarissa Smith Williams........................Frontispiece The Miracle...........................Claire S. Boyer 637 Clarissa S. Williams..................Amy Brown Lyman 639 Our Tree............................Merling Dennis Clyde 643 Portrait of Jennie Brimhall Knight................................644 Jennie Brimhall Knight................Inez Knight Allen 645 Leadership Week, Brigham Young University.......................648 Editorial—President Clarissa S. Williams........................649 Counselor Jennie Brimhall Knight............................651 Counselor Louise Y. Robison.................................652 General Secretary, Amy Brown Lyman..........................653 Appreciation................................................655 Semi-Annual Conference of the Relief Society...Amy Brown Lyman 656 Pioneers...............................Lais V. Hales The Evolution of the Ugly Duckling........Estella Webb Thomas A Sound Investment.....................Bernice Selley Guide Lessons for February— Practical Religion and Testimony.... Work and Business Literature
Organ of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints Room 20 Bishop's Bldg. Salt Lake City, Utah $1.00 a Year—Single Copy, 10c Foreign, $1.25 a Year—15c Single Copy Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah Phone Wasatch 3123

The Miracle By Claire S. Boyer
Into each man's life comes the miracle— The wonder of manger and star; But 'tis only the wise men see the light, And the shepherds who watch afar;
And only the wise men follow its gleam Through a desert of dusty days, And the purple murk of appalling nights, And the terror of Herod-ways;
And only the shepherds hear the song Of "Glory to God on High;" For their hearts are rich with humility, And tuned to the heavenly cry.
Yet His star is hung for all to see, And each has the right to bring The gift of his soul in the palm of his hand To the manger that cradles the King.
For to all of the people of East and West Come the tidings of joy each year, But few are the shepherds and wise men With the faith to see and to hear.
Into each man's life comes the miracle— The joy of the Christ Child's birth— But human love alone can bring A second Peace to the earth.

Clarissa S. Williams By Mrs. Amy Brown Lyman
President Clarissa Smith Williams, sixth General President of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, was released with honor at the General Conference of the Church on October 7, 1928. In presenting her release, President Heber J. Grant expressed his personal appreciation and the appreciation of the Church generally for the excellent administration of President Williams, and for her long and faithful service in the Relief Society.
President Williams' release was not a surprise to those who attended the Relief Society conference on October 4. At that time, in her closing address, she stated that it was not her desire to remain in active service indefinitely, and that she might at any time retire as an officer in the organization. She called attention to the fact that she has always advocated that Relief Society women do not hold office too long, as there are many capable women and offices should rotate.
Mrs. Williams was appointed General President of the Relief Society on April 1, 1921, and has served in this capacity seven and a half years. Previous to this appointment she held many positions of trust in the organization; in fact her service is unique in that it began so early in her life, has been continuous, and has comprehended such a variety of activities. At the age of 16 she was a visiting teacher. She was later secretary and then president of the 17th ward Relief Society. She served for a number of years as stake secretary of the old Salt Lake stake; and when this stake was divided into four stakes, she was made president of the division which retained the name of Salt Lake stake. On November 7, 1901, she was appointed a member of the General Board of Relief Society, and also treasurer of the Board. At April conference of the Church in 1911, she was appointed first counselor to President Emmeline B. Wells. This position she held until the retirement of Mrs. Wells on April 1, 1921, when she was appointed General President.
In addition to her Church work President Williams has taken active interest in civic, patriotic, and community organizations. She is a charter member of the Utah Society of the Daughters of the Revolution, a charter member of the State Society of the Daughters of the Pioneers, a member of the Author's Club and of the Friendship Circle. During the World War she served as a member of the Red Cross Civilian Relief Committee, and was state chairman of the Women's Committee of the National Council of Defense.
In connection with her labors in the Relief Society, Mrs. Williams has traveled extensively among the stakes and missions of the Church. She has also represented her organization at various meetings of the National Council of Women of the United States; and in 1914 she attended the Quinquennial Meeting of the International Council of Women in Rome, Italy, where she was a United States National Council delegate.
The love and respect of the women of the Relief Society go with President Williams in her retirement. There was perhaps never an officer in any organization more greatly beloved and appreciated, or more honestly admired. As one stake president recently remarked, "She has been a true representation and embodiment of the ideals of the women of the organization."
President Williams is first of all a Latter-day Saint, living up to the requirements of the Gospel, and putting into practice those things which she has advocated for others. She is also an excellent example of those who aim to live the Golden Rule. She has been most fortunate in her background and heritage—an illustrious daughter of an illustrious father. Like her father, President George A. Smith, she is a person with kindness of heart, breadth of vision, liberality of views, honesty of purpose, straightforwardness of action; she is wise in decision, brave and courageous. From her mother she inherited gentleness and mildness, which are always in evidence; but when occasion requires, she can arise with vigor and even aggression in defense of a principle or in defense of what seems to her the right.
She is possessed of qualities of heart and mind which go to make up true womanhood, including, among others, rare charm, poise, and culture. She is an executive of rare ability, presiding at meetings with grace and dignity, conducting business with wisdom, fairness, and dispatch, and showing the greatest consideration, courtesy, and honor to her fellow-officers. It has been a joy and satisfaction to all who have served with her in her various official capacities.
The administration of Clarissa Smith Williams will always stand out as one of advancement and progress. Under the able leadership of herself and her associates the Relief Society has gone forward, making concerted effort to meet, as fully as possible, the needs of the day. Ever mindful of the original objects and purposes of the Society, the spirit of the work in every vital feature has been preserved. The past history and traditions have been honored and respected, and have ever been a guide. The unchangeable spiritual features have prevailed and have been fostered and emphasized. But the organization has not been satisfied to rest contentedly and solely on the laurels of the past, and in its educational, humanitarian, and practical work, it has aimed to take into consideration all recent advancement, to adjust itself to meet the new and changing needs of society, and to meet them in the most intelligent manner and with the most approved methods. It has realized that the old trial and error method is expensive and slow, and has made an effort to profit from the study, experience, and research of the day. It has taken into account the fact that, in health and welfare work, emphasis has shifted from efforts of cure to efforts of prevention, and in educational work from mere subject-matter to the study of the student himself and his behavior.
Some of the outstanding pieces of work fostered by President Williams are the systematic study of social problems. In connection with this topic a Social Service Department has been established at Relief Society headquarters which has served as a laboratory for demonstration and training; the centralization of the wheat fund and the consecration of the interest thereof to health and maternity work; and the establishment of the Relief Society Memorial Loan Funds.
With a view of improving the humanitarian work of the Society regular study in the field of social service has been introduced in every ward and branch. This study has included child welfare, poverty, disease, crime, employment, economic conditions, leisure-time activities, etc. In addition social service institutes have been held for the training of local workers and for the purpose of assisting them in solving some of their practical problems. For this work, a laboratory or department for experimental purposes and for training purposes has been established at Relief Society headquarters. Beginning in 1919, it has developed into a service unit, which is conducted according to the best standards of such work, and which meets some of the needs of the organization.
At the time of the World War, a governmental ruling was made that no individual or group would be permitted to store food or food stuffs. The Relief Society wheat was everywhere converted into cash, and each ward that had previously had on hand a supply of wheat now had a cash wheat fund. The original purpose of storing grain was to help in times of scarcity or famine; and from the time of the inauguration of the movement in 1876 till the time of the World War, many of the wards in the Church had continuously a supply of wheat on hand. With a desire to best hold and preserve this great wheat trust fund for any future humanitarian emergency or need, and believing that in the meantime the interest of the fund might be used in conserving and saving human life—which would be in direct accord with the original purpose of the grain-saving movement—President Williams made the following recommendations: that the wheat trust fund be centralized in the Presiding Bishop's Office, and that the interest accruing therefrom be used annually for health and maternity purposes. The recommendation was approved by the General Authorities of the Church and adopted by the women of the organization. Maternity bundles and cabinets have been established, clinics have been supported, and Relief Society women have co-operated freely with the various state health departments in carrying out the provisions of the Sheppard-Towner Act. The consolidation of the Relief Society wheat fund, and the consecration of the interest of this fund to health and maternity work, has already been far-reaching in its results, with untold benefits derived.
Soon after her appointment, President Williams recommended the establishment of memorials to the past presidents of the Relief Society; her recommendation was eagerly adopted. The object of the memorials was to be two-fold, namely to honor the past presidents and to foster important Relief Society projects. The memorials established are as follows: the Eliza R. Snow Relief Society Memorial Prize Poem Fund, which provides first and second prizes yearly for poems, the prize poems being later printed in the Relief Society Magazine; the Zina D. H. Young Relief Society Memorial Nurse Loan Fund, which provides loans for under-graduate nurses who may need assistance during their hospital courses; the Bathsheba W. Smith Relief Society Memorial Temple Grant, which provides an amount yearly for temple work for women, and which is sent to the temple in rotation; the Emmeline B. Wells Relief Society Memorial Loan Fund established at the Brigham Young University for women of the upper classes.
In appreciation of her efforts, which resulted in the establishment of these memorials, and with a desire to show their love, appreciation and esteem to President Williams, their living president, the women of the Relief Society in 1926, under their own supervision and direction presented President Williams with an honor fund, with the request that she name its use. President Williams has dedicated this fund as a Loan Fund for Public Health Nurses, and it is her earnest hope that before many years every community will be supplied with at least one public health nurse to assist in safeguarding the health of the people. Many have already profited, and others will profit, by the provisions of these funds, and will be enabled to accomplish what otherwise would have been impossible.
Although Mrs. Williams has given so much of her time to Relief Society work and to public work generally, she has been first and foremost a home-maker and mother. She is hospitable, and in no role is she more charming than in that of hostess. Her beautiful home is always open to her family and friends, who are received with a hearty welcome. She is a devoted and loving mother to her large family of children, and is never happier than when she is surrounded by her children and her grandchildren.
In all her Relief Society work President Williams has had the interested support of her husband, so that she always thinks of her work in connection with the aid he constantly gave her. This was the more remarkable when we take into consideration the fact that Mr. Williams was prominent in the business life of Salt Lake City and active in civic and political organizations. No doubt her husband would pay her the same tribute were he living; for it is undoubtedly true that, in a large measure, the success of each was due to the sympathetic understanding and help of the other.

Our Tree By Merling Dennis Clyde
Somehow, when I look at our Christmas-tree, It seems so wise and knowing, As if there were one of the family Through all its tinsel showing.
It's way after Christmas, and I really should Put everything away; But, somehow, I just can't begin— Does it really beg to stay?
As it stands dressed up in its pretty things— Oh that dignified symmetry!— It whispers, "Please don't disturb me now,"— With a tree's rare coquetry.

Jennie Brimhall Knight By Inez Knight Allen
On a visit last year to San Juan, I was greeted with expressions of appreciation and messages of love for Jennie B. Knight. All this, because many years ago the lives of these persons had been enriched by her teaching in their community. Her influence had stood the test of time. Her ideals had been upheld by her example. As surely as the flowers continue their growth by the warmth of the sun, even throughout the darkness of the night, the imprint of her character has been with that people for good through all the years since then.
The companions of her childhood, from those days of sorrow and of struggle, are pleased now to be counted among her friends. Because she is a friend, she has never had too little or too much to share with others. Her unusual human understanding and sympathy are of rare value. In a truly motherly way, she has charity for the weakness and mistakes of others, seeking always for the motive of action rather than to chastise.
Jennie Brimhall Knight was born in Spanish Fork, December 13, 1875, daughter of Dr. George H. Brimhall and Alsina E. Wilkins Brimhall. Near the spot where now stands the Spanish Fork High School she spent her early life. In the public schools of Spanish Fork she early manifested scholastic ability. While yet a young school girl she typified originality and tact in meeting situations. When her class had been asked to write an original story, she stood in line with class-mates who read in turn. Her unusual fluency of delivery and the fascination of her story gave her a high standing, even though, as the teacher observed, not a word had been written.
When she was graduated from the eighth grade, she and one other pupil accepted scholarships of award to the University of Utah. Though at times popular sentiment and her own desires might have been otherwise, from childhood throughout her life she has been loyal to right and to authority in her home and in the Church. When quite young, the advice of the Church authorities was against waltzing. She asked her father if he was going to tell her to stop waltzing, (for she was popular and loved to dance). He said, "You don't need me to tell you to stop." After she pondered it well in her mind, she returned to her father saying, "I will not waltz in violation of Church counsel." Thus, in the face of public sentiment, she was brave.
In 1895 she was graduated from the B. Y. U. On that occasion she manifested her loyalty to her father in the following incident: In her graduating class there were only six girls, all of whom were close friends to whom graduation meant the greatest event up to that time. These girls had decided on similar dresses for the occasion. They were of white silk and of course had to be made, as no dresses were ready-made then. So the costumes were complete and hopes ran high for the anticipated event in the new silk dress (silk dresses were rare). Jennie's father said to her, "I wish you wouldn't wear that new dress. I believe a girl should receive her certificate in her school dress." So Jennie with her same sweet smile marched up in a well-worn old red school dress, while all the others were in white silk. Also she was for that occasion the historian of the class. She worked long and hard and to the delight of companions and satisfaction of herself, prepared a very clever history of her class. In this story she had used Book of Mormon language and style. At a late date, when her father listened to what she was to deliver, he said: "Do you think it quite right to tell a humorous story in that language? I'm afraid, clever though it is, you should not do it." So, on the eve of this event, she hastily prepared anew the history of her class.
During her school days she taught a Sunday School class. She worked in the M. I. A., serving on the stake board with Sister Mecham when Utah stake extended from Lehi to Goshen, her associates all being mature women.
Immediately after graduation Jennie B. taught school in San Juan. In that community she took part in all Church activities. Later she taught in the B. Y. U. Training School, and because of distinctive service was tendered a life certificate to teach in public schools of the State.
In 1898 Jennie B. Knight was regularly called and sent on a mission to England, being one of the first two called for such a mission. She visited with the presidency of the European mission, all the conferences, each in conference assembled, in England, Scotland and Wales. So effective was her testimony that after twenty years an unbeliever who listened to her speak wrote, saying he could never forget her sincere, guileless expression and was led further to investigate and receive the blessings of membership. She filled an honorable mission, making many real friends. When Jennie B. is once a friend, she is a friend always; and some of the members of the Church in her missionary days over there still cling to her as benefactor.
On January 18, 1899, Jennie B. was married to Jesse Wm. Knight, son of Amanda McEwan and Jesse Knight. She has two sons Richard and Philip. Shortly thereafter they removed to Canada, where the Taylor stake was organized. She became stake president of the M. I. A.—a position she held five years, at the same time teaching in the Relief Society. Her husband was a bishop there, and her life was typical of wholesome hospitality.
On her return to Provo, Mrs. Knight was made President of Utah Stake M. I. A. This position she filled with honor for eight years. During that time Mutual Isle, the canyon home for girls, was built, and opened. For several years she served as Relief Society Stake Board member. During the war Jennie B. was chosen vice-president of the State Council of Defense, Woman's Division, and went as their representative to Washington.
While working on the Utah Stake Relief Society Board she was called to act as first counselor to Clarissa Smith Williams of the General Board of Relief Society. The fine characteristics of her life continued with her in this high calling. She is humble, unassuming, yet wise and fearless. She is straight-forward, honest, frank, true to principle and to associates. She is that kind of soul who can know the faults of her friends and love them still. She is ever loyal to the Priesthood. The will of the Authorities and of the officers and Board, was her will and she sustained it in heart and action. During her service as counselor to President Williams, though she lived in Provo, she never was late for a meeting, nor absent except for sickness or from being on other Relief Society business. She attended conventions in stakes all over the Church, and was present at the dedication services of the Canadian temple. Her judgment is what might be termed safe and sane, but in no sense reactionary; for these reasons she has made an exceedingly good counselor. One needs but visit any stake or meet any members or officers in the stakes where she has visited to know how well her work has been received. As an executive, we recall the excellent manner in which she presided and conducted the April conference during President Williams' illness.
In addition to Mrs. Knight's local service she has gone as a Relief Society representative to the sessions of the National Council of Women a number of times, twice as a delegate to the Council Biennial and once as a representative to a Board meeting. She was also in attendance at the Quinquennial held in the United States in 1925. While serving as vice-president of the Woman's Division of the State Council of Defense Mrs. Knight attended the convention of the National Council of Defense held in Washington, D. C. There she reported the work of the women of the state. At Governor Bamberger's request she attended the Peace Conference held in the city of Philadelphia the year that William Howard Taft was president. Mrs. Knight has also been a delegate from the Relief Society to two of the national conferences of social workers of the United States.
In her own comfortable well managed home she reigns as a queen—a very kind and sympathetic queen. In her patriarchal blessing received as a child, she was told she should place a blanket on the bed of the widows and she should clothe the orphans. The blanket she spreads is always one of comfort because she gives of herself with the gift. Indeed, she has no superior in doing the kindest things in the kindest way. She has more than fulfilled the promise of "clothing the orphan." She has mothered the orphan in all that the term implies. More than one child has found temporary refuge and loving care in her home, to tide over a time of stress and to go out provided well for many future days. Her family testify that she has had wisdom to know the right and the courage to stand by it, thus being the peace-maker and the wise counselor to all members of her own and her husband's family.

Leadership Week, Brigham Young University January 21 to 26
Adult education will be stressed again during the annual Leadership Week Convention which will be held at Brigham Young University, January 21 to 26. Departments will be organized to meet not only the need of the workers in the auxiliaries of the Church but of all adults as well.
"Education for the enrichment of rural life" is the theme selected for the convention, partly because the Utah State Farm Bureau will hold its convention in connection with Leadership Week and partly because it is a theme which may well be stressed in the inter-mountain region where rural life is the only kind of life there is.
Committees are working out a program which is intended to meet the needs of all who attend. The entire week of instruction as well as the entertainment of the week will be absolutely free as they have been in times past.

THE RELIEF SOCIETY OF THE CHURCH OF JESUS CHRIST OF LATTER-DAY SAINTS
Motto—Charity Never Faileth
THE GENERAL BOARD
MRS. LOUISE YATES ROBISON - - - - - - President MRS. AMY BROWN LYMAN - - - - - - First Counselor
MRS. JULIA A. CHILD - - - - - - Second Counselor MRS. JULIA A. F. LUND - - - - - - General Secretary and Treasurer
Mrs. Emma A. Empey Mrs. Cora L. Bennion Mrs. Lotta Paul Baxter Mrs. Nettie D. Bradford Miss Alice Louise Reynolds Miss Sarah M. McLelland Mrs. Phoebe W. A. Hyde Mrs. Amy Whipple Evans Mrs. Elise B. Alder Mrs. Ethel Reynolds Smith Mrs. Annie Wells Cannon Mrs. Barbara Howell Richards Mrs. Inez K. Allen Mrs. Lalene H. Hart Mrs. Jennie B. Knight Mrs. Rosannah C. Irvine Mrs. Ida P. Beal Mrs. Lizzie Thomas Edward, Music Director Miss Edna Coray, Organist
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
Editor - - - - - - - - - - ALICE LOUISE REYNOLDS Manager - - - - - - - - - - LOUISE Y. ROBISON Assistant Manager - - - - - - AMY BROWN LYMAN
Room 28, Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah Magazine entered as second-class matter at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah

EDITORIAL
President Clarissa S. Williams
Clarissa Smith Williams has been released as president of the National Woman's Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, and while we do not question her judgment in the matter we cannot refrain from saying that her private gain is our public loss. She leaves the head of her Board with the confidence, esteem, and admiration of its members. Hers is a rare personality, a personality that seems intuitively just. Somehow under her administration each member of her Board felt that she understood the particular sort of support needed, and she gave that support in unstinted measure.
There is an indefinable something that either makes or mars personality. In President Williams that indefinable something seemed to work for an effective presiding officer. A leader must hearten her workers; she must send them forth with an assurance that they can meet the situations that are ahead of them. This President Williams has done. She sent her Board members forth with an abiding faith in the mission of the organization they represented, and with faith in our Father in heaven and his Son Jesus Christ, whose Church is the instrument that brought the Relief Society into being.
A leader must be progressive. Sister Williams' policy has been to reach out and gather from people, eminently fitted by virtue of their experience and training in social and charity problems, any knowledge they might have that would make this great relief organization of the Church more efficient. To this far sighted policy is due much of the progress in the welfare work that has marked Clarissa Smith Williams' administration. She also knew that if women are to realize their own possibilities and meet their new world, their knowledge must be expanded and their understanding increased. To this end three educational courses have been offered,—a fact that has attracted educational experts interested in adult education.
A president must be loyal. President Williams saw the light of day in a home whose members had dedicated their lives to establishing on earth the restored Gospel in these latter days. She has been loyal to the organizations of her Church. She has been loyal to those who have been charged with the responsibility of carrying forth these organizations. She has given to the work her best thought and her best energy; and now the release for which she asked is only another evidence of her loyalty. Many persons are willing to work and give of their best to promote an organization in which they believe and to which they are devoted; but they are rare individuals who, feeling that their ability to devote themselves has been impaired for any cause, can still be loyal enough to separate themselves from that institution because they would not interfere with its progress. Yet that is precisely what President Williams has done as indicated by President Grant's explanation at the time of her release. By this act she has given expression to the highest form of loyalty.
A president must have wisdom. At any moment in her life she may be called upon to make important decisions that affect both organizations and persons. Sister Williams' training in Relief Society in some respects cannot be duplicated in the Church. We doubt if another woman may be found who, to use army parlance, has come up through the ranks as has Clarissa Smith Williams. Her experience embraces service as a block teacher, a ward secretary, a ward president, a stake president, treasurer of the General Board, counselor to the General President, and General President. Consequently, her experience has been a background, furnishing material for many wise decisions for which the whole training of her life admirably fitted her.
Those who recall her last address at the late conference will remember with what beauty of spirit and with what holiness of purpose she approached the theme of her resignation. With what exaltation she said to them "My dear sisters, if I should sometime in the future resign, you will know that there has been no decrease in my love and interest in the work. I have always been an advocate of stake presidents and ward presidents not clinging to the work too long; for I believe there are many sisters who should have the opportunities and experience such positions afford."
President Williams always presided with graciousness and with dignity. She was never more lovable or appreciative than in those last days when she confided to the ward and to the stake officers and to her own Board her decision. It was a majestic picture as she stood there in full control of her emotions breathing forth words of inspiration and devotion, raising the spirits of all who heard her into a realm of nobility that caused them to be insensible to the words she uttered. If there had ever been a particle of doubt about her generalship, which there had not, her closing hour crowned her as supreme.
Counselor Jennie Brimhall Knight
Jennie Brimhall Knight is a woman whom people intuitively trust and that trust which her personality invites has never been betrayed so far as we know, and it has been our privilege to know her rather intimately over a period of thirty years or more. She is straightforward and honest in the strictest sense of the word; deception of any sort, has no abiding place with her. She is a woman of convictions and has the courage of her convictions. None who know her have ever feared that she might be the victim of untoward influences personal or otherwise that would lead her from the path of her well thought-out convictions.
She has spent her life doing good to her neighbors and all who have come in contact with her have been her neighbors. Her point of view is a progressive point and her contacts sympathetic. As a counselor she has given complete satisfaction to her president and the Board and to the vast army of women who have listened to her carefully thought-out and inspiring addresses at the Relief Society conferences and conventions, and at the conferences and conventions that she has visited in all parts of the Church; for in this work she has a distinguished record. Her loyalty to the organization, to its membership and to the Church has been an outstanding quality of her work.
Although her home was in Provo she has the enviable record of never having missed a session of the Executive Committee or of the Board, or of being late, when she was in the state, except as we recall it on one occasion when she suffered from an accident that made it necessary for her to remain in her home during the week. Mrs. Knight had been so thoughtful of other members of the Board when inconvenienced by illness that we were rather seeking an opportunity to express our devotion to her. This accident furnished the first excuse and the Board responded with flowers and a letter. Her last address at the conference is so characteristic of her that we feel sure that Relief Society workers reading that address will gain from it a feeling for the quality of her faith and loyalty that can scarcely be had as well in any other way.
Jennie Brimhall Knight has been a great favorite and justly so. During the period of President Williams' enforced confinement in her home because of her husband's illness and her own impaired health, Mrs. Knight as first counselor carried the responsibility of the president. Her co-workers on the Board greatly enjoyed the kindness, good will and good judgment expressed in her manner of presiding. She had the responsibility of the April Conference-Convention when a good many special meetings occurred between the regular meetings. The air was resonant with words of approbation and appreciation for Mrs. Knight because of the manner in which she carried that responsibility. Particularly was it noticed by members that she kept in the foreground the name of her absent president. Every address began with a communication to her auditors expressing the deep interest of President Williams in everything connected with the Board and explaining the cause of her absence. Mrs. Knight is a woman of rare charm and that charm was never more perceptible or engaging than during the strenuous days of the convention.
Counselor Louise Y. Robison
Louise Yates Robison has been counselor to President Williams since the beginning of her administration. With Sister Knight she has given to her president that loyalty which a presiding officer may justly expect from her counselors. Whatever success attaches to an organization in its work must be shared by those who stand at the helm and push the work forward, and Louise Yates Robison has stood there and done her share.
In addition to her devoted work as counselor she has been at the head of the burial clothes department. It has been said by people who know the Relief Society work intimately that the organization has never been in a better condition than at the present time, a fact which all the statistics support, and among its departments one of the most efficient has been the burial clothes department. It has been dependable and has been run in a strictly business-like manner. To Sister Robison are due the heartiest congratulations and the gratitude of all who have been served from that department, for the efficient way in which the work has been done.
Then, too, we cannot refrain from saying that sister Robison's personality is almost made to order for that special work, for one of her gifts is the gift of expressing sympathy delicately and yet with healing sweetness. The person who stands at the head of the burial clothes department comes daily in contact with those who are bowed down with sorrow. Their whole souls are reaching forth for that kindly touch which, if it cannot restore the loss, can at least assuage the grief. Anyone knowing Louise Y. Robison must know that no one in trouble can come in contact with her without recognizing that in her voice and touch and word there is love and healing. One of the members of the Board once said of her that she perhaps more than any other members of the Board has the power to speak the word of sympathy and hearten those bowed in sorrow.
Yet, in another way, Louise Y. Robison's service has been distinguished. Like Sister Knight she has gone all over the Church attending conventions in the nearby and remote stakes and she has gone forth with a message of gladness, and for her kindly ministrations comes the abundant reward of love and good will. It is sufficient endorsement of the work of Sister Robison as counselor that she has been selected the head of the organization, and in as much as the next issue of the Magazine will contain an editorial devoted to the new president we shall desist from saying the other things that should be said of her until the later writing.
General Secretary Amy Brown Lyman
The name of Amy Brown Lyman, General Secretary of the Relief Society, has come to be a household word. For seventeen years of her nineteen years service she has acted as secretary—two years as assistant secretary and fifteen years as General Secretary. In these capacities she has magnified her calling to the fullest extent. Her work has attracted attention all over the Church as well as the attention of many noted persons who have visited Relief Society headquarters.
Much of the work that is thought of as new work in the Relief Society has been inaugurated during her term as General Secretary. She began in her own office by installing an up-to-date filing system so that at any moment she has been able to refer to material on any of the many matters that constantly come before the organization. She has also collected and compiled important data on every phase of Relief Society work and activity. In addition to this she elected as her own special interest social work. Her appointment by the governor on many committees that had to do with humanitarian problems here in the state as well as appointments to conventions and conferences out of the state have given evidence of the esteem in which she is held in her own particular line of work. Her recent election as president of the Utah State Conference of Social Workers is an indication of the place she has made for herself among reputable social workers in this state. Only recently she has been elected to membership in the Pi Gamma Mu, Social Science Honorary Society of America. This is evidence of the esteem in which her work in social science is held outside of the state.
The welfare work of the Relief Society has attracted the attention of educational institutions of our state as they recognize that it has been put on a scientific basis, and Mrs. Lyman has frequently been called to the University of Utah, the Brigham Young University and other educational institutions to make addresses on welfare work. On a goodly number of occasions she has been a delegate to the National Council of Women on behalf of the Relief Society. A few years ago she was elected recording secretary of that organization and during her term of office was requested by President Valeria Parker to go to Geneva to represent the interests of the Council at the League of Nations. The marriage of her only daughter prevented her doing so, but at least the compliment was tendered her. She is at the present time the auditor of that organization.
Tennyson has Ulysses say that he is a part of all that he has met. In the very realist sense of the word Mrs. Lyman has been a part of all of the Relief Society work. She has given of her best and for this reason she has identified herself with the great progress that has attended the work of the organization. We might have concluded that her equipment for secretary with her natural endowment and training was sufficient, but she had the vision to know that a secretary of a welfare organization, if she is to bring to her position that acumen of knowledge that is most desirable, should also be a trained social worker. One of Mrs. Lyman's assistants once paid her the tribute of saying "if there is a better way than another to do a thing Mrs. Lyman will find that better way out." That is characteristic of everything she does.
We are pleased to have Sister Lyman promoted and made Counselor to the President. The work of General Secretary is strenuous and seventeen years is a long time to fill a position where so many details are involved that must be attended to if the work is not to suffer. Yet her work as General Secretary has been so gratifying to those she has served that she must look back on it with a great degree of satisfaction, having won universal commendation and admiration for the way she has done her work.
There is a story told of Michael Angelo, the great sculptor, that when he had finished his Moses the work so gripped him that he forgot that it was an image of stone, and striking it on the knee exclaimed, "speak." There is something in this story that suggests the perfection of Mrs. Lyman's work as General Secretary. It is not given to mortal beings to attain perfection; it is given to only a few to approach it. A host of Mrs. Lyman's admirers will feel that she at least approached perfection in the manner in which she has done her work. She leaves the position to act as Counselor to President Louise Y. Robison with the gratitude, esteem and admiration of the many thousands she has served in wards and stakes, and particularly of the General Board to whom her voice has sounded like music as they listened to her minutes and heard such explanations as only one possessing her alert mind and keen intelligence could give. She assumes her new responsibility with the love and benediction of all who have known of the great service she has rendered.
Appreciation
On behalf of President Louise Y. Robison and the members of the present Executive Committee we wish to extend our heartfelt thanks to all who have written to the new president and the members of the Executive Committee since the reorganization. President Robison wishes us to say that it would be a very great pleasure to her to answer each letter personally, but as that is impossible we are making use of the pages of the Magazine to assure all well wishers and those who have extended their congratulations and good wishes that they are accepted in the spirit in which they have been tendered with grateful appreciation.
Semi-Annual Conference of the Relief Society Amy Brown Lyman, General Secretary
The Relief Society semi-annual conference was held October 4, 1928, with President Clarissa S. Williams presiding. Two sessions were held—a general officers' meeting and a general session.
At the officers' meeting, the following program was followed: Opening remarks by President Clarissa S. Williams; roll call; "Institutional Opportunities for Deaf and Blind in Utah," with demonstration, by Superintendent Frank M. Driggs of the Utah School for Deaf and Blind; Mission Reports by Mrs. Rachel G. Taylor, former president of Northern States Mission; Mrs. Cora S. Jenkins, former president of New Zealand Mission; Mrs. Venus R. Rossiter, former president of French Mission; Stake Report by Mrs. Elfleda L. Jensen, president, East Jordan Stake. The general session opened with a greeting by President Clarissa S. Williams. This was followed by an address by Judge Hugo B. Anderson, subject, "Responsibility of the State in Caring for its Children." Additional addresses were given by Mrs. Jeanette A. Hyde, Counselors Jennie B. Knight and Louise Y. Robison, General Secretary Amy B. Lyman; closing remarks were made by President Williams. Musical numbers were given by Mrs. E. E. Erickson, the Lindsay Sisters, and the Relief Society choir. Officers' Meeting PRESIDENT CLARISSA S. WILLIAMS In her opening remarks, President Williams spoke as follows: I cannot tell you, my dear sisters, how happy I am to greet you this morning, to look into your faces, and to partake of your spirit. I greet you with love in my heart, and I want you to know that I appreciate what you have done and what you are still doing in the interest of our great cause. I am pleased to report to you that we have practically finished our one-day conferences, but our two-day conventions are just beginning. It will be late in the year before we are through, so I hope you will keep your warm fires burning and your nice blankets ready for us when we come, the winds blowing and the snow flying. If it should happen that it is not RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE 657 possible for us to come during this winter season, you will be duly notified and shall receive your visit later on, as you are aware. A change has been made in regard to the visits of the auxiliary organizations. The Relief Society in its convention work has been assigned to visit with the Priesthood in the fourth quarter of the year. It is an experiment and we really do not know how it will work out; but, as you know, we have always been able to surmount almost every difficulty. Probably you all have noticed in the Magazine what I finally was authorized to do with the Honor Fund, which you so kindly presented to me in April of 1926; but I would like to report the matter to you verbally and to pass over to you the joy I feel in being able to have that money put into the very thing in which I have always been so deeply interested. We already had two loan funds for nurses—the Zina D. H. Young Loan Fund for undergraduate nurses and the Public Health Nurse Loan Fund. It, therefore, seemed to me that it would not be possible to use this fund in the interest of nursing, which has always been the very ideal of my heart. But one day in our executive meeting, Sister Lyman said, "Sisters, I have been wondering if Sister Williams would like this honor fund of hers placed in the public health nurse-loan fund, and to have the joint fund named the Clarissa S. Williams Honor Loan Fund for Public Health Nurses. Immediately Sisters Knight and Robison seconded that thought, and I think I began to cry, I was so overcome with joy. I had been hoping and praying that there would be some nurse activity, which I might especially sponsor. The Board approved the recommendation, and I am pleased to report to you personally the use of your gift to me, which [ have loved and appreciated more than you can know. A number of nurses have already been benefited by loans from this fund and have returned home for labor among us. One of these spent her time in Brighton this summer with the Utah Public Health Association, looking after under-nourished children. Thirty children were there from various parts of the State, ten of them recommended through the social service department. President Williams expressed her appreciation for the presence of Mrs. Jeannette A. Hyde, who has been absent from the State for a number of years, serving as U. S. Collector of Customs at Hawaii. DEAF AND BLIND IN UTAH Interesting information on the care of the deaf and blind in Utah has been given to us by Superintendent Frank M. Driggs of the Utah School for Deaf and Blind. He says that 658 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Utah, generously and appropriately for forty-four years has been endeavoring to educate deaf children, and for thirtythree years has been teaching blind children. The two institutions are conducted under the same general board of directors, or trustees and by the same superintendent and officers. The two schools, however, are entirely distinct in educational work, the methods of instruction being altogether different. For both the deaf and the blind children the State provides the school, the books, and especially trained teachérs. Among the subjects taught are sewing, cooking, dressmaking, carpentry, printing, linotyping, etc. There are also well-equipped shops, in which boys and girls are trained in the handcrafts, and a splendid gymnasium, where physical education is featured. The State has provided a farm with fruit trees of all kinds, and with pigs, chickens, sheep, and horses. Dairying, poultry raising, and similar work are subjects of instruction. To deaf children the primary and fundamental thing is the English language. Every deaf child is taught to speak, and also to read speech upon the lips. Character building, history and geography, with a little chemistry and physics, are also taught. In the school for the blind the children are taught to see with the little eyes they have in their fingers. It is astonishing to note how much they can learn to feel with their eyes closed. Superintendent Driggs stated that the school needs every child in the State of Utah and in western Wyoming or eastern Nevada, that is too deaf or too blind to get along well in the public schools. When these children are educated, their lives are made bright, happy, and useful. Miss Catherine Gordon, Primary supervisor of the School for the Deaf, gave demonstrations in teaching the deaf. She was assisted by John Hancock and Bessie Plattis, who have been deaf from birth, and who have been in the school two years. Mr. Ray Wenger, a graduate of the School for the Deaf, and a bacteriologist at the L. D. S, Hospital, gave a brief address explaining further the work of the school. He stated that the school cannot stand alone in this work, but needs the cooperation of the parents, who can assist by encouraging an early attendance at the school. Verne Penrod, a little blind boy, gave a demonstration by reading Braille. Miss Tessie Newton of Salt Lake City, who was graduated from the School for the Blind last May, and who learns her music from Braille, rendered a piano solo. MISSION AND STAKE REPORTS Mrs. Rachel Grant Taylor, former president Northern States Mission Relief Societies, gave a most interesting report of the RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE 659 Relief Society work in this section, paying a tribute to the faithful workers of the various branches. There are ten Societies with 269 members in the Northern States Mission. Eachi Society is taking all the subjects prescribed in the course of study, and thirty-six of the forty executive officers in the ten organizations are subscribers to the Magazine. One of the activities featured in the Mission is temple work. Although few women can go to the temple, they have supported the work by sending funds and names. Last year 404 days were spent in this service—a remarkable record to be made by only 269 members. Another interesting figure is the large number of visits to the sick and homebound made last year. There were 1867 visits made. The women have also done missionary work, distributing tracts and pamphlets. The 1927 report showed 480 tracts, 307 pamphlets, 86 Books of Mormon and 84 other Church works distributed, and 1,200 gospel conversations. Mrs. Taylor emphasized the importance of converting prospective missionaries to the value of real service for the Church, rather than to the idea of self-development; for while there is great personal development for the missionary, his thought should be centered upon what he can do for the Church. Concerning the work of some of the social service institutions she had visited in Chicago, Mrs. Taylor mentioned especially Hull House, Mary Crane Nursery, Spaulding School for Crippled Children, and the Children's Memorial Hospital. Mrs. Cora L. Jenkins, former president, New Zealand Mission Relief Society, reported prosperous the work in this far-away country. The people devote much of their life to the Gospel; and, in the case of the sisters, to the Relief Society. Relief Society work was first organized in New Zealand in 1881, conducted then by local Maori sisters, who have always shown great interest. Prominent workers in the Relief Society have lived in Zion, and their experiences here have been of remarkable benefit to themselves. There are forty-two Relief Societies in New Zealand, forty of them among the Maori sisters. There are ten board members, assigned to the districts nearest their own homes, who visit each of the Relief Societies in their respective districts twice a year at their own expense, and who visit the conferences that are held four times a year in each district. Many of these members contribute all their surplus over the bare necessities of life to Relief Society work. Much of the work of the Maori sisters is not reported and is little known outside of their own families and villages. For instance, at the death of any member of the family or of a Maori village, all the 660 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE people living there join in assisting the family to carry out old Maroi customs. Last January a Relief Society convention, covering four days, was held, with meetings twice daily. Important work was discussed. Wherever a specially arranged course of study is used, meetings are held regularly. The Maori women are eager for progress. They never resent a suggestion. When told how they can improve their work, they take the suggestion gratefully. The greatest »xample of this is shown in their handwork. Naturally skilled in handcraft, their handwork in the past has consisted of weaving flax into mats, kits, and large carpets that would cover an entire floor, also soft rugs to sleep on. When American or European handwork was recently introduced among then, it is amazing what they accomplished in various kinds of exquisite articles. In New Zealand there is very little need for child-welfare work because of the effective way of the government meeting this need. They have a system, endowed by Lord Plunket, one of the governors of New Zealand, which takes care of ail children under school age. Besides, they have district nurses also, who go out into the country and take care of the needy cases. Hospitals are provided; but the sisters, however, take care of their own dependents. The French Mission was reported by Mrs. Venus R. Rossiter, former president there. The French Mission comprises France, Belgium, and the French-speaking people of Switzerland. In these countries there are eleven organizations—five in Belgium, four in Switzerland, and two in France. The sisters in Europe labor under many difficulties and make great sacrifices. Many of them have to earn their own living, and thus travel far to attend meeting; but their development is a recompense to them and a joy to the mission president. The women have been most successful in raising funds. In 1925, they realized $100 from the sale of their handwork; in 1927, they went near the $1,000 point; and the collections for 1928 will far exceed those of last year. For a handful of 132 people, with Societies scattered over three European countries, these figures are significant. Mrs. Rossiter commented upon the excellent cooperation between the Relief Society and other organizations in France and Switzerland. In Switzerland last year, through cooperation with the Red Cross, several people were sent to sanitariums for their health; and one man was sent for six weeks to a hospital. In other cases people were taken to the mountains to recuperate after operations. The Red Cross was surprised ts RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE 661 learn of the amount of welfare work done by a few Relief Society women. A favorable change in the feeling of European people toward the Latter-day Saints was reported at a mission presidents' conference held in Paris recently, excellent newspaper reports were given of the work, with photographs of those presiding, and favorable comments were made on the work of the Latter-day Saint women. Mrs. Rossister says the young missionaries are doing well in Europe. She complimented the mothers of Israel for their contribution to the Church in sending these excellent young people to carry the Gospel message to the world. President Elfleda L. Jensen reported the work of East Jordan Stake. A year ago last May it was divided into the East and West Jordan stakes. In East Jordan stake the aim is to advance and aid every member of the 1325 L. D. S. Women in that stake. There are 234 dependable visiting teachers, 52 capable class leaders, 11 social service aids, besides a number of committees on art instruction, needlework, and recreation. The slogan for the year has been: "Plant up, paint up and clean up East Jordan. It is a good place to live—we are going to make it better." The wheat interest in this stake has been pooled. This year it amounted to $308.07. The maternity bundles, of which there are three distinct kinds, have been replenished. Six baby bundles, eight emergency bundles, and sixteen loan or rent bundles have been let out, and parts of bundles have been loaned. Blankets, rubber sheets, and lot water bottles with attachments have been added to the collection. So far this year this stake has held nine half-day baby clinics; and 166 babies have been weighed, measured, registered, by local doctors, assisted by one from the State Board of Health. A three-day clinic has been held for children under six years of age; more than fifty children were examined by the -doctor from the State Board of Health. Other features reported were a class leaders' convention, ward conferences, special visits by stake presidency to ward presidencies, and a home reading course which was reported upon by members weekly at roll call. Mrs. Jensen paid a tribute to the Relief Society Magazine, stating that it is a constant help and inspiration to the women of the organization. General Session In opening the afternoon session of the conference, President Williams extended a hearty welcome and expressed her 662 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE appreciation and love for the great Relief Society cause and for the women who are so bravely carrying on the work in the stakes and wards of the organization. The first speaker was Judge Hugo B. Anderson, whose subject was "Responsibility of the State in Caring for its Children." Judge Anderson outlined the power of the state regarding child welfare and stated that with these powers the state obviously has corresponding duties. He also spoke of the inalienable rights of childhood which he named as the right <o be well born, the right to a normal home life, the right to health, the right to an opportunity for education (including moral, intellectual and spiritual education), and the opportunity for recreation. (Judge Anderson's address will be published in a later issue of the Magazine.) Mrs. Jeannette A. Hyde, Collector of Customs for the port of Hawaii, brought greetings from the Islands and in behalf of the Relief Society women of this mission, she presented President Williams with a beautiful lei with a hearty aloha. Mrs. Hyde expressed her joy and happiness in being able to attend the conference and have her soul recharged with the spirit of the work and the workers. She spoke of the Relief Society service as an opportunity and blessing to all concerned, and quoted the words of the Savior when He said, "Inasmuch as ye have done it unto one of the least of these my brethren, ye have done it unto me." She reported Relief Society work in Hawaii. As in excellent condition with Mrs. Olivia S. Waddoups, the wife of the president of the mission, in charge. The activity of the Hawaiian women is marvelous and they never tire of working early and late for their beloved organization. They are dignified, kind, gentle and courteous, and love to be found assisting those who are sick and in need. Because of their good work, the people in Hawaii are calling upon them to help them in various community and humanitarian projects. The Relief Society has been established in the Islands for many years and has been a great blessing and education to the women who have profited in every way by it. And it is their earnest desire tc put into practice in their daily lives what they have learned. COUNSELOR JENNIE B. KNIGHT As I have pondered over the things I have heard today along the lines of child welfare work and humanitarian work in general, I have felt to attribute this great progress to our Heavenly Father, who has touched the hearts of the women of Zion and of the women of the world in the interest of those who are unfortunate as well as those who are blessed with all their faculties and with all that intelligence can give to them. RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE 663 The other day a little woman came into my home and said, "IT had such a disappointment this morning. When we left Canada, my husband gave a beautiful, fur-lined coat to a friend of his who had not been very well, and said, 'I am going toa warmer country; take this furlined coat and wear it when the winds blow and the snow flies, and when you must go to your ranch. You haven't been very well, and I wish you would use it." So the man used it for a year and had much comfort out of it, but he felt he should send it back, which he did. I hung it in a closet and it has not been used all this time, and when I went into the closet to take the coat out this morning it was all moth-eaten. Now it is of no use to any one; the fur lining is all gone and its warmth-giving qualities are gone. It appears from the surface to be the same coat, but I am so disappointed to think our friend did not keep it." I think we can draw a lesson from this story. If we are useful and are in the service of our fellow men, working every day, the moths will not creep into our lives; but if we are indolent and if we allow oursevles to be filled with anger and hatred and doubt and disloyalty and disobedience, dishonesty, envy, evil speaking of our leaders, whether they be of the church or of the state, if we are indifferent and ungrateful, jealous, selfish, stingy, these attributes will eat out the warmthgiving quality of our lives and we shall become nothing but a shell. If this little woman had taken this coat out and hung it in the sunshine where the winds could have blown against it and the rays of the sun could have entered and would have seen that it was useful, the moths would not have been there, and so if we will let the sunshine of the Gospel enter into our lives, if we will have faith, and add to our faith, virtue; and to virtue, knowledge; and to knowledge, temperance; and to temperance, patience; and to patience, godliness; and to godliness, brotherly kindness; and to brotherly kindness, charity, then our lives will indeed be full of fruits of good work. We will then have the power as officers and as mothers to give out warmth and comfort, and when we are called into the homes of those who are needing our care, and when our families are visited with storms of sorrow and trouble and distress, we can put our arms, with loving warmth around them, and we can be of comfort and cheer to them. The Lord will give us this power if we will strive to serve Him. May we ever be found working in His cause, that we may indeed be a comfort is my prayer. COUNSELOR LOUISE Y. ROBISON. I have decided to speak to you briefly this afternoon on the subject of Travelers' Aid, You sisters and brothers who in 664 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE your travels had friends meet you at the station, do not know the anguish one may feel in going into a strange town all alone with no one to lend a helping hand or speak a word of welcome. This condition is not rare in the traveling world. It is estimated that there are many hundreds of young girls who really drop out of sight every year by going into strange cities to seek employment and by having no one to meet them and to direct them to reliable agencies. It was in the early fifties that a man in St. Louis did the first work recorded on travelers' aid when he left a big share of his fortune to take care of people going west. Then there were different religious groups, the Y. W. C. A., the Friends, and the Women's Bible Class, and a number of other people in large cities who, knowing the danger there was for young girls to go to other cities unacquainted, worked out a plan of meeting these young women and giving them needed advice and help. Then there were other travelers who seemed to need help. There were the aged, the sick, and little children traveling alone, and attention was given to these. The Jews were the first to meet the immigrants when they landed. Not until 1917 did all these groups which were helping travelers, meet and form a society known as the Travelers' Aid Society. This organization is non-sectarian, embraces every religion, every tribe and nation in the world, and is for every age from the baby to old age. And the service is everywhere and is free. In Salt Lake City the work is directed by Miss Kate Williams, who is. An efficient social worker. Some of you sisters may have a friend coming from Scandinavia or from Germany, or from any other foreign-speaking country, or an aged person who is not familiar with travel. If you will write in time to the Travelers' Aid Society here, they will meet your people and take care of them and see that they are put on the right train, or on the bus, or that they get in touch with their friends. Or if you know of girls coming into the city for employment or to visit, advise them to get in touch with the Travelers' Aid woman who is at the station, and who wears a badge of the two hemispheres bound together, and she wil! Help them. There came to the station one day a girl, looking for her aunt. She had a huge suit case and looked bewildered, so the Travelers' Aid worker stopped her. This girl had never been on a train before, but she said she thought she had in her suit case somewhere the name and address of her aunt, but she could not find it. She knew only that the name was Brown. She did not know her uncle's given name. What was she to do? The Travelers' Aid worker said, "Sit here until I get through this work I am doing now, and I will help you." In RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE 665 half an hour she had gone through the directory and found the right Brown, telephoned, and sent the girl to her aunt. What would that girl have done without his help? Whom could she have turned to? Of course, there is always the policeman, as a last resort. A little boy arrived at the station one day, from Montana, and when he got here he was crying bitterly. He had a note from his grandmother in Montana saying his mother would meet him here, that she was working out in a mining camp. The mother was not here, so the worker went over the situation and hunted for his mother, and the little youngster was comforted with books and toys and with a rest in a neat little crib. The worker got in touch with the telephone operator in the town where the mother was supposed to be working and found the mother had left the place where she had been employed two months before, and that they did not know where she was. But it was not long before the resourceful worker got in touch with the mother, and by direction of the latter, put the boy on a bus the next morning and sent him to her. These are not unusual instances—they happen every day in Salt Lake. If you are letting children travel alone, do not put them in the care of a passenger unless he is a friend. It is a risky thing at best to let children travel alone. Lunches soon spoil in the warm cars, and their little stomachs are disturbed by too frequent eating. But if they have to travel alone, or if aged people must travel alone, get in touch with the Travelers' Aid workers who are in every large city and they will take care of them free of charge, except for hotel bills or telegrams, etc. I pray that the spirit of this conference will go home with you Relief Society women and be an inspiration and help to you in your future work. MRS. AMY BROWN LYMAN General Secretary and Treasurer While Judge Anderson was speaking to us today I thought over all the things we ought to be doing and I was inclined to be a little discouraged, so I took out my pencil and made note of a few of the things we have done in the last few years, and 1 shall mention them by way of encouragement. It has been nineteen years this month since I first began working on the General Board cf Relief Society, and during these many years, covering nearly a quarter of a century, I have been impressed, interested and thrilled with the growth and development of the Society as I have observed it at close range. I am going to mention some things, showing that we 666 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINF are growing and progressing, and I presume these nineteen years are typical of any other nineteen years. In 1913, we were not holding weekly meetings throughout the Society—some wards were holding meetings once a month, and some twice a month—but President Wells said in a conference that while it was not obligatory, she would like to recommend that the women begin holding weekly meetings. Her recommendation was soon adopted and we all know what a great step forward that was. Then in 1914, we began the first uniform course of study. Previously, each stake had prepared its own educational work, and while it was excellent, still the General Board felt that a uniform, standardized course of study would be much more satisfactory to all concerned. So the uniform course of study was begun in 1914 and in these years this course has covered theological study, history, art, literature, home economics with practical demonstrations, and social problems such as health, sanitation, poverty, crime, employment, and the provisions which the state had made for caring for its dependents. About this time the work of the visiting teacher was enlarged and made more uniform and topics were instituted in connection with their visits. Stake board meetings and tnion meetings were made universal and programs outlined for them. During the year of 1914, the Relief Society Magazine was planned. Meanwhile, and for the year, a Bulletin was issued and the Magazine began publication in 1915, the Bulletin being known as Volume I. In this Magazine the new course of study was placed along with other interesting data and you all know what the Magazine has meant to us these fifteen years. It has satisfied our older women who, with their background, poise, and spirituality,. Have found it most helpful, and it satisfies our younger women who are aggressive, enthusiastic and have visions of the future. In fact, it has satisfied everybody. In 1915-16 we began to be interested in temple and genealogical work in real earnest, and I do not need to tell you what has been accomplished by the Relief Society women along these lines for you know yourselves what we have done and are doing today to help the Genealogical Society with this great work of salvatoin for the dead. 'In 1918-19 we began a serious study of social problems and in connection with this study our welfare department was started with one worker. This department has been a very excellent laboratory for study and training and for inspiration throughout the organization. We had our first social service institute in 1920 at the Brigham Young University, and we have had a great many since, and the General Board is ready now to hold institutes in any RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE 667 of your stakes, whenever they are asked for. Those who have had institutes know what a wonderful help they have been. In 1922 the wheat fund was centralized and the interest set aside for health and maternity work. I won't go into the details of this project because you all know what we have accomplished. The results must be gratifying to President Williams who was inspired to make the recommendations regarding the centralizing of this wheat fund and the use of the interest for health work. In 1923 we established loan funds and memorials for our past presidents, and later, in 1926, through the generosity of our women, an honor fund was established for President Williams. These funds are for the encouragement of the art of writing, for salvation for the dead, for assisting in educational work, in nursing and in public health nursing. But there is something greater in the Relief Society than any one of these activities or than all of them, and it is the spirit of the work, the great, dynamic spiritual force which has been with the Society from the beginning. And what is this force? It is the spirit of the Lord with which the organization has been blessed since the Prophet Joseph Smith turned the keys to women. This spirit has been supported by the Holy Priesthood all through these years, and by your faith and prayers, and your testimonies. This spirit is the real force which has made the organization great and my prayer is that we will always bear this in mind. PRESIDENT CLARISSA S. WILLIAMS My dear sisters: There are a few subjects that I feel should be brought before you before we part for six months. We want you to know that during the summer season, vacations for malnourished children have been arranged and carried out, and we take this opportunity of extending our thanks and appreciation to those stakes which have assisted so nobly in this work. Sixteen children went to North Davis stake, twenty-five to Franklin and Oneida stakes, eight to Kolob stake, and four to South Davis stake. Through the courtesy of the Exchange club, eight boys went to the Boys' Camp at Mueller Park, and through the courtesy of the Utah Public Health Association, ten extremely underweight children were taken to the health camp in Big Cottonwood canyon. All the children returned home greatly improved. There have been a number of organizations and reorganizations since the April conference, and we hereby extend our heartfelt thanks to the women who have served so nobly and capably, and we bespeak faith and prayers for those who have been newly apointed that they may be as successful as those who have been released from the work. Following is a list of the organizations and reorganizations which have occurred since the April conference: Alpine stake, divided July 1, 1928, into Alpine, Lehi and 668 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Timpanogos stakes, Mrs. Eliza Buckwalter released as president of Alpine stake, and Mrs. Maude D. Christensen appointed president, Mrs. Mina Webb appointed president of Lehi stake, and Mrs. Ella M. Cragun appointed president of Timpanogos stake; Ensign stake, reorganized September 25, 1928, Mrs. Luacine S. Clark, released, Mrs. Alice Bitner Castleton appointed president; Fremont stake, reorganized June, 1928, Mrs. Marie M. Merrill released, Mrs. M. May Grover appointed president; Oquirrh stake, reorganized August 19, 1928, Mrs. Emma S. Jacobs, released, Mrs. Marie Tygeson, appointed president; Snowflake 'stake, reorganized August 26, 1928, Mrs. Ann S. Shumway released, Mrs. Leonora S. Rogers appointed president; South Sevier stake, reorganized July, 1928, Mrs. Nina A. Hansen released, Mrs. Ada Anderson appointed president; Summit stake, reorganized September, 1928, Mrs. Jemima B. Crittenden, released, new president not yet appointed; Teton stake, reorganized July, 1928, Mrs. Mary A. Nelson released, Mrs. Ada Fairbanks, appointed president; Utah stake, reorganized June 3, 1928, Mrs. Electa S. Dixon released, Mrs. Ascha E. Paxman appointed president; Yellowstone stake, reorganized June 10, 1928, Mrs. Lucy P. Lloyd, released, Mrs. Ellen J. Murri appointed president; Eastern States mission, reorganized August, 1928, Miss Lola R. Bradford, released, Miss Olita Melville appointed president; New Zealand mission, reorganized April, 1928, Mrs. Cora S. Jenkins released, Mrs. Jennie Magleby appointed president; French mission, reorganized September, 1928, Mrs. Venus R. Rossiter, released, new president not yet appointed; Swiss-German mission, reorganized, 1928, Mrs. Sarah R. Cannon released, Mrs. Eliza W. Tadje appointed president; Northern States mission, reorganized April, 1928, Mrs. Rachel Grant Taylor released, Mrs. Allie Y. Pond appointed president; Western States mission, reorganized April, 1928, Mrs. Florence R. Knight released, Mrs. Elias S. Woodruff appointed president. They say it is a sign of old age when one begins to be reminiscent and to talk about ancient history, and I admit that probably I am getting a little old, for I should like to speak a little of my experience in the Relief Society. I began my Relief Society work when I was sixteen years old, going around the block as an assistant teacher, and I feel that the experience I gained at that time has been most valuable and formed the foundation for much of the work that I have been able to do since. Later, after I was married and had seven children, I was asked to be secretary of the Seventeenth ward Relief Society. I felt that I could not do this with all my little babies. But my husband said, "My dear, you must do it; it is the very thing you need; you need to get away from the babies, and I will help you all I can, either by taking care of the children or making out your reports or RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE 069 copying your minutes, or any other thing I can do." [ felt that I couldn't refuse then, so I consented. I made out my own reports and copied my own minutes, however, but my husband tended the children and helped to make it possible for me to get out. I had occupied this position of secretary between seven and eight years when I was asked if I would accept the position of president of the ward. And I did not know how I could do that either. There is a little more responsibility connected to that position than to that of a secretary, but I did, and I worked at that for about eight years, and before I was released from that I was appointed treasurer of the general Relief Society. That occurred about the year 1901. Then, during that time, the Salt Lake Stake was reorganized and four stakes made from that stake, and I was urged to accept the presidency of the Salt Lake stake, which I did. Later, in 1911, I was appointed counselor to President Emmeline B. Wells, and on April 4, 1921, which is just seven and a half years ago, I was appointed president. Now, I like to feel that I have no regrets, that I have done my work as well as I could, that I have tried to have the spirit of the Lord with me at all times, and if I should feel at any time that I should like to be 'released, I hope that you will all feel in that event that I have thought out very well the line which I should follow and that whatever happens I hope I shail still have your love and your faith and prayers. You will recollect that it has always been my policy to advocate to you that we do not retain our positions too long, that there are many capable women and that such honor and dignity as come with positions of this kind, should rotate. My earnest prayer at this time is that the Lord will bless you in your labors and help you to do your work in a manner pleasing to him. Counselor Knight suggested that the audience stand as an Amen to President Williams' remarks, and the entire congregation arose and remained standing for a few minutes. Pioneers RED RUST—CORNELIA JAMES CANNON By Lais V. Hales About fifty years ago, to a prominent family in St, Paul, Minnesota, a little girl was born. All her girlhood was spent in the West among the Swedish immigrants. In 1899 she graduated from Radcliffe College and a few years later married Dr. Walter Bradford Cannon who is a George Higginson Professor of Physiology at the Harvard University Medical School. Today Mrs. Cannon is the mother of five fine children and the author of a novel Red Rust and several articles of substance. Red Rust is Mrs. Cannon's first novel. It tells of Swedish immigrant life on a pioneer farm in Minnesota. From close observation and from her lawyer father she has gleaned her information and she thoroughly understands and loves the people she writes about. Matts Swenson, a young Swedish boy, drives his oxen over. The hills of Minnesota during the cold weather. As Matts wanders over this land of "prairie and privation'" he comes into contact with a family named Jensen who have recently arrived in the neighborhood. Olaf Jensen, the father, is a cruel man with a craving for liquor. Matts works for Olaf and gets a glimpse of the cruel treatment which Olaf gives his family. Matts, who is sensitive, delicate, decent, with a great love for beauty, goodness, uprightness, feels very sorry for Lena Jensen and her children. He realizes how hard pioneer life is on women and children at its best and he does everything in his power to make things more pleasant. In his effort to enlighten the burdens of Lena and her children Matts evokes the anger of Olaf. Olaf meets with a violent death and releases his family from the curse of his temper. Matts continues to help and befriend the Jensen family until he realizes that Lena, though an older woman, has come to deeply love him. Never before in her life had she known solicitude or sympathy from any man. Olaf Jensen, in his mad desire to build up a fortune in America, had sacrificed her without a thought. Matts and Lena are quietly married and return to the Jensen farmstead to live. Matts continues his study of wheat. Many times he has seen red rust, hot winds, long continued drought, and grasshoppers wreck the wheat crop. His dream is of finding someday, through cross breeding, the wheat which will make these disasters impossible. Lena believes in Matts and helps him. While he experiments with his small plot of ground she cares for PIONEERS 671 the rest of the farm. She endures the soul-destroying toil of pioneering in this new country with fortitude. She knows that if Matts can develop a wheat that can withstand the ravages of the dreaded red rust he can save the farmers of Minnesota. Matts struggles on meeting often with defeat and discouragement. After years of patience, self-mastery, and self-sacrifice he obtains a variety of wheat which ripens before the appearance of the red rust. Before he has time to realize that he has succeeded death overtakes him. It is left for Lena to complete Matts' dreain by having his seed planted wherever such grain could grow and give rich harvests. Today Matts Swenson is forgotten but his wheat is still growing on the fertile lands of Minnesota. There is something distinctly refreshing about [ted Rust. According to Dorothy Foster Gilman, Matts Swenson is "an idealized portrait of our new Americans." Instead of wanting to take from, his wonderful new country which he had adopted, he wanted to give to her and make her richer and finer. He is a splendid example of the kind of immigrant that this country most needs. His eyes are turned toward the future instead of back to the glory of a sunset long past. As Mrs. Cannon has portrayed him he is of heroic stature, free from all petty characteristics. And he is real too—so real that after closing the book he is still with us. The story is directly told. The language is beautiful without any attempt at effect. One can open the book at random and find such clear beautiful writing as the following: '"Matts' heart was beating fast as he lifted the paper that lay at the foot of the stocky Swedish plant. He carried it carefully to the row of native wheat, where the tall green stalk, although freed of twothirds of its spikelets, still hung its heavy head. The great moments of his life had come. As Matts stood there in his shabby clothes, his bare feet brown with the dust of the field, his unkempt hair pushed back from his forehead, his hands ready for the delicate work they must do, he was one with the poets and creators of the ages. The light that shone in the eyes must have illuminated the face of every man who ever struggled to remake his world and to build up a better one about him. The passion to set new forces free, which inspired him, may have been the driving force of the creator of being itself." The Evolution of the Ugly Duckling By Estella Webb Thomas December 25—It was purely by accident that I happened on this funny old red diary, given me by Granny five years ago this Christmas, and carefully sealed up with adhesive plaster and hidden away in an old chest of treasures when I had finished recording an episode in my fifteen-year-old life. I planned to burn it but suppose my thrifty nature must have prevented that— it has such pretty red morrocco backs. 'And then it was a gift from Granny; and now that she's gone, I'm glad I kept it. But how I came to find it, and decide to fill in the blank pages is a long story, and I'd better begin at the beginning. To begin with, then, I'm a country school teacher. Naturally! Don't Ugly Ducklings always turn into old-maid school teachers? And of course I couldn't spoil the picture—though it took some persuasion to make mother and the dear professor see my point. It was fine in the professor to want to stake me to a college education and all that; but I knew he couldn't really afford it with Lisbeth to educate, and mother needing trips in the summer vacation to keep her well; so, after the expense of Inez's wedding was over, I, Margaret, alias Daisy, decided manfully to shoulder my share of the family budget, and strike out on my own, as the original Ugly Duckling did. However, I have not developed any swan-like qualities yet, and am certainly not prepared to sing my swan song; for though, like the hod-carrier's, there are many ups and downs in a school teacher's life, it's all the more interesting for that, and I'm enjoying myself immensely. Inez, after being engaged to Dick Burton and Charlie McGee, finally married Henley Melton, whose father is the richest man in town; and she can have pretty things to her heart's content. They are spending this winter in Florida, and her letters are like communications from another world. Lisbeth is at a musical school in the East, getting voice culture. That brings me to the present, and the dilemma I'm in. It seems she has developed a case of measles right here at holidaytime; and mother and the professor decided to spend Christmas with the invalid, so long as she couldn't come home, and sent me a telegram to that effect. All this I have found out since I arrived, however, for I left Green Valley before the telegram was sent, spent a day with a friend, Marie Jackson, who teaches in the EVOLUTION OF THE UGLY DUCKLING 673 next district, and reached home after ten o'clock on Christmas Eve. It was a disappointment not to be met at the station; but after I had succeeded in finding a cab and getting myself and suitcase transported through the storm, it was a real blow to be confronted by a dark, silent house, instead of the brilliantly lighted, festively decorated one I had anticipated. The front door proved to be locked, and the rear ones as well, when I had tramped about in the snow to investigate. Shivering disconsolately on the front steps, I considered the situation. Of course there were people in town to whom I might go for the night, but my pride rebelled at thrusting myself, unexpected, into someone's house late on Christmas Eve. Our old friends the Bartons had moved from the house next door, mother had written me, and strangers now occupied the place. I must certainly do something, as I was slowly, but surely congealing in the frosty air. When I had come to the decision that there was nothing for it but to break in at a window, I suddenly remembered that I had a house key, which I finally succeeded in finding after a frantic search with stiff fingers through all my belongings. The house loked cold and cheerless when I had turned on the light, and it seemed an hour before I got a fire going in the grate and thawed out my aching fingers. When I was comfortably warm, I made an excursion into the kitchen in search of forage. There were some pies on the pantry shelf and a big fruit cake, and there mother's Christmas preparations seemed to have ceased; but I found some cold ham in the ice-box, and with this and some bread and butter on a tray on the living-room table, was trying to make myself a cup of cocoa over the fire when a sound in the hall startled me. Turning with the little sauce-pan in my hand, I confronted a very tall, rather dishevelled young man, who was evidently as astonished at the sight of me, as I was to see him. For an instant we were both silent, staring stupidly at one another, and then I collected myself and demanded indignantly what he was doing there. "Just what I was going to ask you," said the young man, politely, My answer wasn't so polite: "If it happens to be any of your business, 1'm trying to make cocoa over this smoky old fire!" I retorted, feeling that I was not looking my best, as I crouched over the fire with a sauce-pan in my hand, and one of mother's big aprons over my suit.- "Well, you're a cool one, at least,' he said admiringly, "and if you're as desperately in need of food as you seem to be, I'm sure the hospitable Sturtevants would not begrudge you a Christmas Eve supper. But why did you do it? You are so evidently not that kind of a person—Were you in such desperate straits as ali that? My mother and I would have been glad to have taken you in, and will still." 674 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE "Indeed I was," I responded in a heart-broken voice, deciding now I knew he was not a burglar, but believed me to be one, to carry on the joke. "Starved, and very near frozen, but—no, thanks, to your kind offer, of assistance, I can't accept help from anyone!" "Oh!" the young man gave me a peculiar glance. "It isn't so hard on the pride, then, to help yourself, as it were, rather than to be helped?" "Not nearly!' I replied, giving my whole attention to the cocoa, which was threatening to boil over. There were a few moments of silence, then the young man said in a different voice, stirring uneasily, ""Well, see here, this can't go on, you know! The nightwatchman over at the bank knows that the Sturtevants left for the East this afternoon, and he'll be over to investigate when he sees the light." "T should have turned off the hall light,' I murmured, not making any move to do so, however., "Well, what are you going to do about it?" queried the visitor, somewhat sharply. "As I said, mother and I will take you in if you need help, and old Tobe Warner will think it queer, to say the least, when he investigates and finds you occupying the Sturtevant's living room." "Better put the light out, if you're afraid," I suggested, "Tobe may think it rather strange for you to be here, and while I don't wish to seem inhospitable, you needn't stay, you know, if you crave to go. But won't you have a cup of cocoa and a sandwich first?" I began making a sandwich as I spoke. "Say, this is a bit thick!" said the young man, dazedly, mechanically taking the sandwich I handed him, and looking about absently for a place to lay it down again. "Ves, I know the slices are rather thick," I said, purposely misunderstanding. "I'm not very good at slicing, I always cut my fingers." Just then there was a sharp rap on the door, and old Tobe Warner opened it and popped in his head. "What's up, here?" he shouted, and then when I appeared in the hall he said in a changed tone, "Oh! It's you, is it, Miss Daisy? Didn't know you were expected!" "Apparently I wasn't," I answered, "by the looks of things! Mr.—er—this gentleman tells me mother and the professor have gone East; do you know why?" "Why, didn't you get their telegram? I was in the office when Professor Sturtevant sent it. Miss Lisbeth's been took down with measles, and they left on the afternoon train. They thought you'd stay where you wuz. Well, I'll be getting back," he added, with a curious glance at the young man, who had stood in a dazed silence during this conversation, although I had motioned for him to stay out of sight in the living-room. "Didn't EVOLUTION OF THE UGLY DUCKLING 675 know you wuz acquainted with Miss Daisy, Mr. Douglas, you coming after she left, and all." "Oh, yes," said the young man easily and unexpectedly, "Mis —er—Sturtevant and I are old—that is, we know lots about each other. She knows that I'm a goofy and can't keep my nose out of other people's affairs, and I know that she can't cut thin slices." "Well," drawled Tobe, as a parting shot, "Course it's none of my business, but seems kinda strange that you'd call Miss Wallace 'Miss Sturtevant' if you know her so dog-gone well!" and departed reluctantly, with a glance of suspicion at Mr. Douglas. That gentleman was apparently leaving, too. In fact, he seemed in rather a hurry to be gone; but he paused in the doorway, as Tobe had, for a parting word. "Well, good evening, and a merry Christmas, Miss Wallace," he said, showing a handsome set of teeth in the first smile he had vouchsafed me; "I seem to have intruded needlessly on your homecoming, but delighted to have played the fool for a few minutes if it gave you any satisfaction!" "Glad to have you drop in any time you crave a smoky cup of cocoa and a thick sandwich!" I replied heartily, but he was gone, and my invitation echoed on the empty air. The house seemed terribly cold and dreary after my uninvited guest had gone, and without any more delay I ran up to my room and got shivering into bed. I found a small jar of cream on the step when I opened the door next morning, and had an excellent breakfast, after which I prepared to amuse myself till afternoon, when I intended to make some Christmas calls. It was after I had finished my bit of morning work, and come upstairs to rummage around a little, that I ran across this old diary in the bottom of a box of treasures and decided to finish it. It surely is the most absurd thing I've seen for many a day! What a solemn little prig I was! And what a crush I had on the professor! He'd get a good laugh out of it if he knew—but he'll never know, so he'll have to read the funny paper for his laugh. But just to pass the time on the first Christmas day I ever spent alone, I began writing in it this morning. Must go now and make myself beautiful. Ha, ha, and sally forth. (To be Continued) A Sound Investment By Miss Bernice Selley, Utah Tuberculosis Association Little children, playing in dirty, crowded city streets, in the sweltering oppression of midsummer, touched the heart strings of good people who knew that not far away were grassy meadows, cool groves and sparkling brooks. Might not the cramped lives of these city urchins, wan and ragged, many of them, be expanded a bit by transplanting them, even for a brief period, to the open country? So the fresh air camp was born. The idea grew rapidly. Summer camps of all descriptions sprang up. Health associations, appreciating the value of summer outings, were quick to join in the movement and many established camps of their own. These are called health camps and their primary purpose is to husband and increase the health capital of children below par in vigor and vitality. There are in all communities certain children who are neither definitely sick nor vigorously well. They do not need hospital treatment, but neither are they competent to keep pace with other more sturdy children. Experience has shown that such handicapped children can be helped by conserving their limited energies and by teaching them how to order their lives in accordance with their handicaps. Open air schools, preventoria and summer health camps all aim to help this type of child. Efficient health camps must meet certain standards. The children must have careful medical guidance, rest, good food, hygienic practice, including the development of sound health habits and plenty fresh air and sunshine. If there are any defects that need correction, such as adenoids and tonsils, these must be corrected. The children themselves receive training in the ways of health and their parents also are given instruction. The Utah Christmas Seal Health Camp established last summer by the Utah Tuberculosis Association in Big Cottonwood canyon provided efficient care to thirty children for a period of six weeks. The average gain per child was six pounds. It is hoped the funds next year will permit the association to increase the number of children at the health camp to fifty or sixty. The Health Camp was supported by Christmas seal funds. It was an investment with dividends measured not in dollars but in strong men and charming women. Children who might otherwise be sacrificed were made happy and healthy. Christmas seal funds used on health camps represent a sound investment, and everyone can invest their bit when Christmas seals are bought and sold. Guide Lessons for February LESSON I Practical Religion and Testimony (First Week in February) Purity I. Material. A. Scriptural material: 1 Create in me a clean heart oh God: and renew a right spirit within me. Psalms 51:10. Blessed are the pure in heart for they shall see God. Matt. 5:8. Unto the pure all things are pure, but unto them that are defiled and unbelieving nothing is pure, but even their minds and conscience is defiled. Titus 1:15. And I looked and lo! A lamb stood on the Mount Sion and with him an hundred forty and four thousand having his fathers' name written in their foreheads. These are they which were not defiled. Rev. 14:1-4. For this is Zion—the pure in heart. D. And C. 97:21. Verily I say they shall not have part in the first resurrection. D. And C. 63:17-18. Be ye clean that bear vessels of the Lord. D. And C. 38:41-42. And assuredly as the Lord liveth, for the Lord God hath spoken it and it is a part of his clemal word that they who are filthy shall remain filthy still. II Nephi 9:15-16. On page 280 Compendium gems are recorded the words of the Prophet Joseph Smith, the remembrance of which saved a brilliant youth from having his life purity blighted by "taking a fling." B. Literary Material: 1. Mn PLN Virtue is indeed its own reward.—Claudianus. Know then this truth (enough for men to know), Virtue alone is happiness below.—Pope. Virtue is her own reward.—Dryden. Well may your heart believe the truth I tell, '*Tis virtue makes the bliss, where'er we dwell.—Collins. Virtue alone outbuilds the pyramids; Her monuments shall last, when Egypt's fall. —  678 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Virtue could see to do what virtue would. By her own radiant light, though sun and moon, Were in the flat sea sunk—Milton. The sun, too, shines into cesspools and is not polluted. —Diogenes Leartius. My good blade carves the casques of men; My touch lance thrusteth sure, My strength is as the strength of ten, Because my heart is pure—Tennyson. Miscellaneous: 1, a Say to thy soul: "No unclean thing shall enter here." —Karl G. Maeser. In the kingdom of Consciousness, evil skulks into the corner of forgetfulness where good is made the guest of honor.—George H. Brimhall. On my honor I will do my best— (1) To do my duty to God and my country and to obey the scout law. (2) To help other people at all times. (3) To keep myself physically strong, mentally awake, and morally straight—Scout Oath.. "To associate with the vile is to assume their vileness. To touch a woman's hand in wantonness may be to poison her life and yours—Vulgarity weakens the mind. It is vulgar to like poor music, to read weak books, to feed on emotional newspapers * * * to enjoy vulgar theatres, to find pleasure in cheap jokes * * * the forces which make for vulgarity tend also toward obscenity * * * a form of vulgarity is profanity, this is a sign of a coarse unrefined nature. He is the wise man who for all his life can keep. Mind and soul and body clean."—David Starr Jordan in "The Strength of Bewmg Clean—a book that lifts to higher levels of purity. Your Afterself. Your first duty in life is toward your afterself. So live that the man you ought to be may in his time be possible, be actual. Far away in the years he is waiting his turn. His body, his brain, his soul are in your boyish hands. He cannot help himself. What will you leave him? Will it be a brain unspoiled by lust or dissipation; a mind trained to think and act; a nervous system true as a dial in its response to the truth about you? Will your boy, come as a man among men in his time? Or will you throw away his inheritance before he has had a chance to touch it? Will you turn over to him a brain distorted, a mind diseased, a will untrained to action, a 6. GUIDE LESSONS FOR FEBRUARY 679 spinal cord grown through and through with devil grass and wild oats? Will you let him come and take his place, gaining through your experience, happy in your friendships, hallowed through your joys building on them his own? Or will you fling it all away, decreeing wanton-like, that the man you might have been shall never be? This is your problem in life—the problem which is vastly more to you than any or all others. How will you meet it? As a man or as a fool? It comes before you today and every day and the hour of your choice is the crisis in your destiny—David Starr Jordan.
In the unearthed bones of forgotten peoples traces of syphilis are found.
D. Comments. From the material presented the following conclusions seem certain:
1. That the yearning for purity reaches upward for help. David pleaded for a reacquaintance with purity.
2. That purity of heart assures an at-home-ness with the Lord.
3. That purity of life makes men pure without from within until their countenances are a symbol of divinity—their fathers' name is on their "foreheads."
4. That sin dust blinds our conscience.
5. Zion spells social purity as well as personal cleanliness.
6. That impurity is a bar to the privileges of the first resurrection.
7. That purity is related to our missionary system and temple ordinances, both as cause and effect. The desires and dreams of missionary experience are accompanied by a purity standard of a high order. Gospel ambassadorship demands purity of life and the expectancy of a mission is an inward call to keep clean, to keep fit for the blessings of the House of the Lord. The glorifying of the missionary work is, in all its phases, religion applied to the problem of purity.
8. That impurity carries over beyond the grave.
9. That an early-age acquaintance with the word of God is a life-belt on the sea of temptation.
10. That poetry and philosophy proclaim purity there is no worthwhile ideality without purity.
11. That we may lock the doors of our minds against the invasions of the unclean.
12. That the entertainment of the pure abashes the impure.
13. That scout work is one of the best allies to our religion. The boy on his honor is knighted a preserver of his own purity and a defender of the purity of others. The scout-life with the ambitions, expectations, and achievements give to the youth a puritanic sphere of activity full of adventure and upward thrills.
14. That the "Strength of Being Clean" contains within its covers condensed purity food.
15. That impurity "will out." Nature refuses to keep the secrets of sin.
16. That strength and beauty, survival and salvation, are the fruits of purity.

LESSON II Work and Business (Second Week in February)
TEACHERS' TOPIC FOR FEBRUARY—ACTIVITIES OF THE RELIEF SOCIETY
I. WHY THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?
It is the organ of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. As such it keeps each of us in touch with the Relief Society work in general. It is a medium through which special messages may be received from the presidency of the Relief Society.
II. Material found in the Magazine:
A. It contains news of interest to women and particularly to Relief Society women, such as important world events as interpreted in their relationship to Relief Society work.
B. Literary gems in prose and verse form part of the makeup of practically every issue of the Magazine.
C. Historical events and biographies of Relief Society leaders and other women of note are preserved to us through its pages.
D. The Magazine frequently contains travel articles of interest and importance sometimes written by L. D. S. writers and sometimes by others.
E. Child guidance and parent problems are often treated.
F. Household helps such as budgeting are included.
G. The Magazine contains the guide lessons which are indispensable to good class work.
III. Talent is developed by the publication of the prose and poetry of our local writers.
IV. As editor of the Magazine we have a woman who has made a life study of woman's cause, keen and sympathetic with high ideals. She is preeminently qualified for the great task by inheritance and education in and out of the Church.
The teacher should study thoroughly one copy of the Magazine and carry it with her that people may see it and that it may become a basis of discussion.

THE LITERATURE COURSE
We promised to publish, at as early a date as possible, the price list of the books for the new literature course:
"Nowadays" is listed at $1.75; "The Devil's Disciple," at $1.00; "What Every Woman Knows," at $1.00; "Joseph and His Brethren," at 75c; "The Doll's House," at 80c. "He and She" cannot be obtained separately. It is published in a book of American Plays by Quinn. As a consequence we have decided to substitute for "He and She" Galsworthy's "Justice," which sells at 75c.
We are asking the Deseret Book Company to keep these books in stock to accommodate the organizations and individuals that care to purchase them. Whether they are purchased or not is at the option of each ward and stake. We wish to give our members all the help we can, but are anxious that no help offered shall in any sense prove a burden. That is why we emphasize the fact that it is entirely optional whether these books are purchased or not. We shall continue, as in the past, to devote as much space to the literature lesson as the size of the magazine will permit.
We would draw the attention of our members to the fact that many of the college libraries located in many of the cities have these books upon their shelves; also that practically all the public libraries carry a good many volumes of modern drama. Recently the president of the Alpine stake sent for our list in order to put the set of books in a collection in the American Fork Library, which has been placed there to the honor of their late president, Mrs. Annie Hindley. Public libraries are always eager to serve the community; and if the officers will present them with lists of books that are to be used extensively in the community, they are eager, as a rule, to receive the list and make the purchase.

LESSON III Literature (Third Week in February)
BIOGRAPHY
George Bernard Shaw is the most brilliant of living British playwrights. His public addresses are full of keen and clever statements that can come only from one whose mind scintillates continuously, as does the mind of George Bernard Shaw. He is a satirist, keen and cutting. One of his critics talks about his "razor-like" thrusts. No matter what may be said to him he always has a ready reply. We have heard a good many addresses by eminent people but have never heard one with quite the ready comeback to all questioners as an address delivered to the teachers of London by George Bernard Shaw in 1911.
He was born in Dublin on the 26th of July, 1856. His father was a retired civil servant, the younger son of Bernard Shaw, high sheriff of Kilkenny. His mother was Lucinda Elizabeth Gurly Shaw, a good musician who eventually became a teacher of singing in London. George Bernard Shaw attended school in Dublin, and at the age of fifteen began earning his own living. For five years he was a clerk in the office of an Irish land-agent going to London with his family in 1876. In 1879 he was in the offices of the Edison telephone company. At this time he had already started writing novels, but had not yet found a market for them. His first publications appear as serials in a monthly magazine Our Corner. These were The Irrational Knot, written in 1880 and Love Among the Artists, written in 1881.
Mr. Shaw joined the Fabian Society in 1884 and became active in socialistic propaganda as a street orator and also a pamphleteer. He began journalism through the influence of William Archer, on the reviewing staff of the Pall Mall Gazette in 1885. In his role of art and musical critic he was a very brilliant reviewer. It is said that he thought some of the dramas he had to review so stupid that he sought to relieve the situation by writing some plays of his own. That he has helped to raise the quality of English drama no one competent to judge will deny. His dialogue is brilliant beyond that of most gifted playwrights. He is a disciple of Ibsen.
Some of Mr. Shaw's most important plays are Arms and the Man which was produced in 1894; Candida written in 1894; The Man of Destiny, a Napoleonic drama written in 1895; You Never Can Tell, written in 1896; The Devil's Disciple, which was produced in New York in 1897 and in London in 1899; Caesar and Cleopatra, written in 1898; Captain Brassbound's Conversion, 1898; The Admirable Bashville, 1903; Man and Superman, published in 1903; The Doctor's Dilemma, in 1906; Androcles and the Lion; Back to Methuselah; and Saint Joan. Man and Superman and Saint Joan are considered his greatest plays.
In 1898 he married Charlotte Frances Payne-Townsend, a woman who appears to be able to enter with him into all his work. George Bernard Shaw has always been very much interested in extending to women those rights and privileges which were justly hers. Among the men who worked hard to obtain suffrage for the British women no one was more conspicuous in this than the gifted playwright. His wife made a trip to Boston for the sole purpose of taking part in the suffrage parade with the women of that city. When invited to ride she refused, stating that she would prefer to march with the women of that city. He lives in the city of London and his rooms are so close to those of Sir James Matthew Barrie, the famous Scotch playwright, that they can talk out of the window to each other. Practically everything he says has news value. Papers all over the world will publish any comment with which he will favor them.
THE DEVIL'S DISCIPLE By George Bernard Shaw
The play has its setting in the state of New Hampshire in the year 1777. It opens in the main room of a house where most of the occupants are interested in the fire because the morning is very cold. It is the home of Mrs. Dudgeon. She is a Puritan of the strictest type, one, as Shaw points out, of a bitter temper and fierce pride. She has an unquestioned reputation for piety and respectability, but is generally a very disagreeable woman, so disagreeable that some of her neighbors who do not hold to her strict rules of conduct think she must be exceedingly good because she is so disagreeable. She prides herself on never having missed a Sunday at the Church, but her religion has not developed in her an attitude of sympathy or kindness towards her fellowmen. She perhaps finds herself in the same category as some Christians, of whom Swift spoke when he said they had just enough religion in them to make them hate their neighbors.
With her in the room is a girl she calls Essie, who is the illegitimate child of her husband's brother, who had just been hanged at Springtown. Her husband went to see the hanging, then fell sick, and died during the night. Dick Dudgeon, her eldest son, is the first caller of the morning, consequently is the first one to bring an account of the hanging. As the matter has been planned the minister is to break the news to Mrs. Dudgeon of the death of her husband, but her son Richard really does it before the minister arrives.
Mrs. Dudgeon is not overly proud of her two sons, as the following passage will disclose. She says: "A nice comfort my children are to me! One son a fool, and the other a lost sinner that has left his home to live with smugglers, gypsies, and villains, the scum of the earth!"
Mrs. Dudgeon is very severe in her treatment of Essie as shown by the entrance of the half-wit into the room a little earlier in the scene when she says: "Why, who are you?" The girl responds shyly, "Essie." To which Mrs. Dudgeon responds: "Oh, you may well ask. Go to your room, child, and lie down since you haven't feeling enough to keep you awake. Your history is not fit for your own ears to hear." The child said: "I—"
Mrs. Dudgeon: "Do not answer me, miss, but show your obedience by doing what I tell you; and do not forget to say your prayers. She'd have gone to bed last night just as if nothing had happened if I'd have let her."
Finally Mr. Anderson, the minister, arrives. Mrs. Dudgeon is one of those women who feel that it is necessary to show a good deal of distress at the news of her husband's death. That there is much hypocrisy in her sorrow is evinced by the fact that she makes such a fuss over her husband's decision when the will is read.
Just before the reading of the will something occurs that discloses the real character of the woman who believes herself to be a very righteous person, as also the real character of her son whom she thinks of as a disciple of the devil. Richard asks: "By the way, did I hear, or did I not, that our late lamented Uncle Peter, though unmarried, was a father?"
Uncle Titus: "He had only one irregular child, sir."
Richard: "It touches me profoundly, Pastor. By the way, what has become of the irregular child?"
Anderson: (pointing to Essie) "There, sir, listening to you."
Richard: (shocked into sincerity.) "What! Why the devil didn't you tell me that before? Children suffer enough in this house without—(He hurries remorsefully to Essie.) Come, little cousin! Never mind me: it was not meant to hurt you. (She looks up gratefully at him. Her tear-stained face affects him violently, and he bursts out, in a transport of wrath): "Who has been making her cry? Who has been ill-treating her?"
Mrs. Dudgeon: "Silence your blasphemous tongue. I will bear no more of this. Leave my house."
Richard: "How do you know it is your house until the will is read?"
The reading of the will discloses the facts that: "I give and bequeath a hundred pounds to my younger son Christopher Dudgeon. I give and bequeath to my wife Annie Dudgeon an annuity of fifty-two pounds a year for life to be paid out of the interest on her own money."
Mrs. Dudgeon: "A very good way to put God's truth. It was every penny my own."
"I give and bequeath my house at Websterbridge with the land belonging to it and all the rest of my property to my eldest son and heir, Richard Dudgeon, on conditions that he shall not let my brother Peter's natural child starve or be driven by want to an evil life."
We learn later that the British soldiers in their desire to terrorize rebels have made up their mind to execute somebody at Websterbridge, just as they executed Richard's Uncle Peter at Springtown. It has been whispered about that either Richard Dudgeon or the minister, Mr. Anderson, is to be sacrificed. Dick has heard that the minister is to be made an example of and the minister has heard that it is Dick Dudgeon. The minister sends for Dick and he arrives just about tea time. Judith, his wife, thinks Dick a very ungodly sort of person, and resents through facial expression her husband's suggestion that Dick stop and have tea, but finally, out of consideration of her husband, she says that she would like to have him remain. Just as they are about to pour the tea, Christy comes with a message that his mother is very ill and wishes the minister to come at once. Mr. Anderson has scarcely left the home when British soldiers appear at the door. They arrest Dick Dudgeon for the minister. He indicates to Judith that she must not betray him and so he places the minister's cloak on his shoulders and accepts the offer of a last minute to say good-bye to Judith. Suddenly it occurs to Mrs. Anderson that Dick has been very much misjudged, that under a rough and crude exterior he really possesses the essence of a Christian character. He tells her hurriedly to have her husband get out of the way, that it will not save his life for her husband to give himself up, as they will undoubtedly hang them both. As he leaves the room, he urges her to kiss him so that the officers may be misled. This she does. As she does so, she falls into a swoon. Her husband arrives soon after the officers have departed with Dick. He cannot understand the confused condition in which he finds her and feels for a moment that Dick has in some way insulted her. Finally the truth comes to light, and then she implores her husband to go and give himself up and thus bring about the release of Richard Dudgeon. This he refuses to do, but at once arranges for a fast horse and departs with nearly all the money they have in the house. Mrs. Anderson is as much surprised at what her husband does as she was at what Dick did. She goes to the prison to see Dick and finally gets permission to attend the trial. She is incensed that it should be such a sham. Finally the officers in charge decide that Richard Dudgeon, who they think is Anderson, the minister, shall be hanged at twelve o'clock. Richard tells his prosecutors or persecutors, whichever you please to call them, that if the townspeople had listened to him they would have found the streets barricaded, the houses loopholed, and the people in arms to hold the town. But, said he, "you arrived unfortunately before we got out of the talking stage."
Major Swindon, indignant that Dudgeon should dare to talk to him in this way, replied: "Well, sir, we shall teach you and your townspeople a lesson they will not forget. Have you anything more to say?"
Richard: "I think you might have the decency to treat me as a prisoner of war, and shoot me like a man instead of hanging me like a dog."
Burgoyne: (sympathetically.) "Now there, Mr. Anderson, you talk like a civilian, if you will excuse my saying so. Have you any idea of the average marksmanship of the army of His Majesty King George the Third? If we make you up a firing party, what will happen? Half of them will miss you: the rest will make a mess of the business and leave you to the provost-marshal's pistol. Whereas we can hang you in a perfectly workmanlike and agreeable way."
The time approaches for the execution and Richard stands there with the noose about his neck and his eyes on the clock. In the meantime they have discovered that it is not the minister but Dick Dudgeon that they are about to hang. About a minute before the hanging takes place Anderson arrives at the head of the rebel troop and the town falls into the hands of the Americans. Dick is released, very much to Essie's joy, who cannot keep back the tears. Good-humoredly but wilfully Richard says to her: "Now, now. Come, come! I don't mind being hanged, but I will not be cried over."
The Problem of the Play
The problem in this play is manifestly an endeavor to discover which is the saint and which the sinner. Mrs. Dudgeon, feeling she has followed all the rules of Puritan conduct, naturally imagines that she is a very righteous person; while Dick, who rebels against the conventions of his day, is very naturally regarded by the people of the community as being decidedly unrighteous. Yet, when put to the test, Dick is willing to give his life for the minister, whose wife feels that it is an abuse for her to drink tea with him. Consequently, he that was least amongst them became the greatest of them all when measured by the true rule of righteous conduct.
Questions and Problems
1. What type of woman is Mrs. Dudgeon?
2. Do you think that the Puritan religion had a tendency to produce women of that sort?
3. What do you think of Mrs. Dudgeon's treatment of Essie?
4. What person in the play has a modern attitude towards Essie?
5. Do you call to mind any instances in your experience where convention has a tendency to make a saint out of the sinner and a sinner out of the saint?

LESSON IV Social Service (Fourth Week in February)
THE CHILD STUDY COURSE
Lesson XI. The Treatment and Prevention of Delinquency. (Based on Chapter XII, The Child: His Nature and His Needs.)
In the last four lessons we have been considering the physical and mental health of the child. We are now going to look at certain aspects of character development, and for this purpose shall consider the principles underlying the modern treatment of juvenile delinquency.
This chapter was written by Dr. William Healy, at the present time director of the Judge Baker Foundation in Boston, a child guidance clinic connected with the Boston Juvenile Court. It should be said here that Dr. Healy is a pioneer in the scientific study of delinquency and crime. It was his scientific study of one thousand repeated offenders* in the Chicago Juvenile Court some fifteen years ago which began the movement for a scientific study of delinquency and the child guidance clinic as forms of prevention.
A. Some Recent Studies.
One of the most recent bits of scientific work in the field of delinquency—stimulated by Dr. Healy—is that of Dr. Cyril Burt, psychologist to the London County Council, and reported in his book The Young Delinquent (Appleton, 1925). Dr. Burt's method of studying delinquents was fundamentally the same as Dr. Healy's in that he studied actual cases in order to discover his facts and draw his conclusions. His method differed from Dr. Healy's, however, in that he measured his delinquent group by a group of non-delinquent boys and girls of the same age and circumstances. By a rather elaborate statistical method, he discovered the following, in the order of their statement, as the causes of delinquency in his two hundred cases: "(1) defective discipline; (2) specific instincts; (3) general emotional instability; (4) morbid emotional conditions, mild rather than grave, generating or generated by so-called complexes; (5) a family history of vice or crime; (6) intellectual disabilities, such as backwardness or dullness; (7) detrimental interests, such as a passion for adventure, for the cinema, or for some particular person, together with a lack of any uplifting pursuits; (8) developmental conditions, such as adolescence or precocity in growth; (9) a family history of intellectual weakness; (10) defective family relationships—the absence of a father, the presence of a stepmother; (11) influences operating outside the home—as bad street companions and lack or excess of facilities for amusement; (12) a family history of temperamental disorder—of insanity or the like; (13) a family history of physical weakness; (14) poverty and its concomitants; and, last of all, (15) physical infirmity or weakness in the child himself."
Among his other conclusions may be noted the following: "On an average, each delinquent child is the product of nine or ten subversive circumstances, one as a rule preponderating and all conspiring to draw him into crime."
"Every cause and every influence, however, no matter what its special form may be, is found to operate and can only operate through its inner psychological effects. Conduct and misconduct are always, in the last analysis, the outcome of mental life."
B. Classification of Causes
All scientific studies of delinquency confirm each other in the conclusion that delinquency may be caused in a variety of ways. The terms "delinquency" and "crime" are generic ones and are comparable to the terms "sickness" and "disease" in the field of medicine. That is to say, the terms are very general and apply to a large group of widely different things. The significance of this fact, however, is that if progress in the treatment and prevention of delinquency is to be achieved, it must be realized in much the same way it was achieved in the treatment and prevention of disease, viz., by the isolation of specific forms, types, patterns, etc. That is to say, delinquency cannot be dealt with effectively as a whole, any more than diseases can be effectually treated or prevented en bloc. Just as there is no one universal panacea or palliative for all disease, neither is there one universal treatment or cure-all for delinquency.
This list of known causes of delinquency is so long and varied that we have attempted the following simple classification:
Classification of Causes of Delinquency
I. Factors Which Enfeeble Social Control.
A. Chronic.
1. Inherent defects in the political order, e.g., in law, in government, in politics.
2. Inherent defects in the economic order, e.g., low wages, unemployment, etc.
3. Inherent defects in the social order, e.g., in the family system, in education, in the standard of living, etc.
4. Urbanization, e.g., migration, mobility, anonymity, etc.
5. Physical environment, e.g., geographic or climatologic handicaps.
6. Changing mores and group conflict, e.g., with regard to sex; use of alcohol, tobacco, etc.
B. Acute. 7. Family disorganization, e.g., death of parent, nonsupport, incompatibility, etc. 8. Neighborhood disorganization, e.g., poor housing, unwholesome associations, etc. 9. Governmental disorganization, e.g., graft, maladministration of law and justice, etc. 10. Inadequate educational activities, e.g., amount and quality of secular, religious and vocational instruction. 11. Inadequate avocational facilities, e.g., unwholesome leisure interests and lack of facilities.
II. Factors Which Enfeeble Self-Control.
A. Chronic. 12. Inherited or acquired physical handicap, e.g., stature, deformity, constitutional weakness, etc. 13. Inherited or acquired mental handicap, e.g., feeblemindedness, psychopathic personality, epilepsy, etc.
B. Acute. 14. Physical injury or disease, e.g., accident, tuberculosis, syphilis, etc. 15. Mental disease, e.g., psychoses, psycho-neuroses, mental conflicts, etc. 16. Age and physiological epoch, e.g., adolescence, etc. 17. Personal disorganization from excesses, e.g., sex; use of alcohol, narcotics, etc. 18. Ignorance, e.g., lack of sophistication, faulty perspective, etc.
We concur in the position taken by Dr. Cyril Burt that these causes of delinquency are far from peculiar to delinquent persons and situations. "With children of the same social class," says he, "identical conditions may co-exist without plunging them into a criminal career. It must, therefore, as a rule be either the number of factors, or the particular combination of them that renders delinquency a probable result."
C. The Work of a Child Guidance Clinic
We made some reference, it will be recalled, in a previous lesson, to the mental hygiene movement and to the activities of the modern child guidance clinics. These clinics combine the services of the physician, the psychiatrist, the psychologist, and the psychiatric social worker. Their primary function is to diagnose and treat cases of conduct disorder in children. They are usually maintained in connection with public schools, juvenile courts, hospitals, universities, etc. They are strictly scientific in their procedure and are sometimes organized to promote research and the training of workers.
Cases coming before these clinics are usually referred by judges, social workers, teachers, parents, etc. Each case is exhaustively studied from the following standpoints: Family background, Home conditions, Physical history, Present physical condition, Intelligence, Special abilities or disabilities, Temperament and character, School attainment, Occupation, Recreation and leisure activities, Life history, Delinquency, The child's own history, etc.
It has been found that it is far more efficient and humane to deal with children's misconduct in this scientific way than to resort to the old, dubious process of punishment. Next in importance to the advent of the juvenile court itself in the treatment of juvenile delinquency is the development of the modern child guidance clinic, with its scientific analysis and treatment of the causes of misconduct.
Questions
1. What are the essential conclusions of Dr. Healy in regard to the causes and cures of delinquency?
2. Why is it important to accurately discover the causes of delinquency?
3. What is a juvenile court? How does it differ from any other court?
4. How much juvenile delinquency is there in your community? Is it increasing or decreasing? Can you get any reliable statistics on the subject? Why not?
5. Is there a juvenile court serving your community? Is it strictly modern and forward-looking? Does the judge employ scientific methods in determining the causes and treatment of delinquency in the children who come before him? Why is not your community more up-to-date in this respect?
6. Outline a program for the prevention and treatment of delinquency in your community.
*See his book The Individual Delinquent, Little, Brown Company, 1919. 688 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE conditions, such as adolescence or precocity in growth; (9) a family history of intellectual weakness; (10) defective family relationships—the absence of a father, the presence of a stepmother; (11) influences operating outside the home—as bad street companions and lack or excess of facilities for amusement; (12) a family history of temperamental disorder—of insanity or the like; (13) a family history of physical weakness; (14) poverty and its concomitants; and, last of all, (15) physical infirmity or weakness in the child himself." Among his other conclusions may be noted the following: "On an average, each delinquent child is the product of nine or ten subversive circumstances, one as a rule preponderating and all conspiring to draw him into crime." "Every cause and every influence, however, no matter what its special form may be, is found to operate and can only operate through its inner psychological effects. Conduct and misconduct are always, in the last analysis, the outcome of mental life." B. Classification of Causes All scientific studies of delinquency confirm each other in the conclusion that delinquency may be caused in a variety of ways. The terms "delinquency" and "crime" are generic ones and are comparable to the terms "sickness' and "disease" in the field of medicine. That is to say, the terms are very general and apply to a large group of widely different things. The significance of this fact, however, is that if progress in the treatment and prevention of delinquency is to be achieved, it must be realized in much the same way it was achieved in the treatment and prevention of disease, viz., by the isolation of specific forms, types, patterns, etc. That is to say, delinquency cannot be dealt with effectively as a whole, any more than diseases can be effectually treated or prevented en bloc. Just as there is no one universal panacea or palliative for all disease, neither is there one universal treatment or cure-all for delinquency. This list of known causes of delinquency is so long and varied that we have attempted the following simple classification: Classification of Causes of Delinquency I. Factors Which Enfeeble Social Control. A. Chronic. 1. Inherent defects in the political order, e. G., in law, in government, in politics, 2. Inherent defects in the economic order, e.g., low wages, unemployment, etc. 3. Inherent defects in the social order, e.g., in the family system, in education, in the standard of living, etc. 4, Urbanization, e.g., migration, mobility, anonymity, etc. GUIDE LESSONS FOR FEBRUARY 689 5. Physical environment, e.g., geographic or climatologic handicaps. 6. Changing modes and group conflict, e.g., with regard to sex; use of alcohol, tobacco, etc. B. Acute. 7. Family disorganization, e.g., death of parent, nonsupport, incompatibility, etc. 8. Neighborhood disorganization, e.g., poor housing, unwholesome assoctations, etc. 9. Governmental disorganization, e.g.., graft, maladministration of law and justice, etc. 10. Inadequate educational activities, e.g., amount and quality of secular, religious and vocational instruction. 11. Inadequate avocational facilities, e.g. unwholesome leisure interests and lack of facilities. II. Factors Which Enfeeble Self-Control. A. Chronic. 12. Inherited or acquired physical handicap, e.g., stature, deformity, constitutional weakness, etc. 13. Inherited or acquired mental handicap, e.g., feeblemindedness, psychopathic personality, epilepsy, etc. B. Acute. 14. Physical injury or disease, e.g., accident, tuberculosis, syphilis, etc. 15. Mental disease, e.g., psychoses, psych-neuroses, mental conflicts, etc. 16. Age and physiological epoch, e. G., adolescence, etc. 17. Personal disorganization from excesses, e.g., sex; use of alcohol, narcotics, etc. 18. Ignorance, e.g., lack of sophistication, faulty perspective, etc. 'We concur in the position taken by Dr. Cyril Burt that these causes of delinquency are far from peculiar to delinquent persons and situations. ''With children of the same social class," says he, "identical conditions may co-exist without plunging them into a criminal career. It must, therefore, as a rule be either the number of factors, or the particular combination of them that renders delinquency a probable result." C. The Work of a Child Guidance Clinic We made some reference, it will be recalled, in a previous lesson, to the mental hygiene movement and to the activities of the modern child guidance clinics. These clinics combine the services of the physician, the psychiatrist, the psychologist, and the psychiatric social worker. Their primary function is to diagnose and treat cases of conduct disorder in children. They are usually 690 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE maintained in connection with public schools, juvenile courts, _hospitals, universities, etc. They are strictly scientific in their procedure and are sometimes organized to promote research and the training of workers. Cases coming before these clinics are usually referred by judges, social workers, teachers, parents, etc. Each case is exhaustively studied from the following standpoints: Family background, Home conditions, Physical history, Present physical condition, Intelligence, Special abilities or disabilities, Temperament and character, Scheol attainment, Occupation, Recreation and leisure activities, Life history, Delinquency, The child's own history, ete. It has been found that it is far more efficient and humane to deal with children's misconduct in this scientific way than to resort to the old, dubious process of punishment. Next in importance to the advent of the juvenile court itself in the treatment of juvenile delinquency is the development of the modern child guidance clinic, with its scientific analysis and treatment of the causes of misconduct. Questions 1. What are the essential conclusions of Dr. Healy in regard to the causes and cures of delinquency? 2. Why is it important to accurately discover the causes of delinquency? 3. What is a juvenile court? How does it differ from any other court? 4, How much juvenile delinquency is there in your community? Is it increasing or decreasing? Can you get any reliable statistics on the subject? Why not? 5. Is there a juvenile court serving your community? Is it strictly modern and forward-looking? Does the judge employ scientific methods in determining the causes and treatment of delinquency in the children who come before him? Why is not your community more up-to-date in this respect? 6. Outline a program for the prevention and treatment of delinquency in your community. New Players Used Players....$155 Long, Easy Terms oo $283 | "Music in the Home puts Sunshine in the Heart 10 Sends it Home & Free Delivery in Salt Lake or Vicinity or Freight Paid to Any R. R. Station in Utah. Brand New PIANOS You would scarcely expect to find a piano like this selling under the $300 or $350 figure— but you can get one during this sale at $187— and $10 sends it home, with a beautiful full size case. $187 Brand New PLAYERS What a world of pleasure EVERY member of the family could get from one of these fine PlayerPianos! Get one during this sale at a figure that's within $8 of 1/2 price, with a lot of duat bench to match! BRAND-NEW word rolls of your own choice. $283 Brand New GRANDS A beautiful brand-new baby grand at a price you'd ordinarily expect to pay for an upright. Every home hopes someday to own a grand. Here's your chance. $357 New and Used RADIOS Most complete line in the West—Majesticc— Atwater Kents—Crosleys —Brunswicks — Amrads Steinites—R C A's—all on easy terms. We have good EXCHANGED radios as low as °A9 iit Terms AN. ORGAN FOR THE WARD? Call or Write for Catalogs Daynes-Beebe Music Co. "Older Than The State of Utah" 61 to 65 South Main Street, Salt Lake City 1 — When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine Daynes-Beebe's Great Harvest Festival HUGE SAVINGS On Every Kind of Musical Instrument What Mother Really Wants Most of all, comfort and joy and opportunity and robust health, the desire and the time to do the things an alert mind prompts—these are the things everyone wants. Women, enslaved by managing a household equipped with old-fashioned ranges, with tubs and washboards, with brooms, the sad iron of the sad days of yore—they have no time for these health-building, recreational activities and social pursuits. Electric servants are needed in these homes and under our convenient payment plan they are easily acquired. Decide to drive household drudgery out of your home and give mother something electrical for Christmas—a gift that will give years of service and be a constant reminder of the affection that prompted its giving. Utah Power & Light Co. Efficient Public Service —_——— Her cargo full of countless wealth Of joy and hope and human health. (HRISTMAS (REETINGS 1928 ~~ BUY CHRISTMAS SEALS 95% of the Money remains in Utah "jp [- When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine =~ G ») ] We should'a drunk waote milk when we wuz ids~ At Less. Than half YOUNG SAMSON knows what he's aiming at—a bottle of our rich, creamy milk. It's a ringer every time, and the prize is. Health. CLOVER LEAF DAIRY 159 W. Ist So. Was. 2177 any one, but to all Relief Society Members. Those who adImportant to Relief Society Members Sisters, THIS IS OUR MAGAZINE, it does not belong to vertise in Our Magazine are helping us publish it and thus they are aiding our Cause. We in turn should be loyal to them. We are careful in selecting our advertisers and can recommend them to our readers; THEIR goods are GOOD GOODS and their prices are right; why not fell them we appreciate their good-will toward our Cause, by giving them a chance to supply our needs. Forgive your enemies but support your friends. When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine BLUE! I PIINIE BRANDY, New Seale? Oy HELLED WALNUTS No Christmas Is Complete Without: Books X- mas. Write NOW for a catalog or suggested list—or, send us the mony you want to spend. Tell us how many books it must buy and we'll select for you. Deseret Book Company When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine P.O. Box 1793 UL Make each loved one doubly happy by including a book for Salt Lake City, Utah APEX —A N D— ROTAREX ELECTRICAL HOUSEHOLD APPLIANCES —WASHING MACHINES— —VACUUM CLEANERS —HOME IRONERS— High Quality—Low Price—Long Life ASK FOR FREE HOME TRIAL WITHOUT OBLIGATION Inter-Mountain Electric Co. Christmas  = REAL VALUES YOU CANNOT PASS UP 2 greeting cards, including printing your name in type to match greeting, with lined or unlined envelopes, $2.00 postpaid. Order Now! Early orders will avoid disappointment. The Deseret News Press When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine 43-69 East 4th South 27-33 Richards Street Phone Wasatch 354 Salt Lake City, Utah a VRS CHRISTINE RASMUSSEN 745 SQ) OTH EAST CIiITy PROVIDING for the family today means more than merely supplying them with food and clothing. It is the sacred duty of the bread-winner to provide for the future as well as the present. This is accomplished most satisfactorily | through good life insur- | ance. PUBLIC CONFI. DENCE has placed the BENEFICIAL asthe leading Life Insurance Company of the Intermountain Region. AND NO W—The Beneficial takes one more step ahead of competition by offering PARTICIPATING INSURANCE AT LOW NON-PARTICIPATING RATES This participating benefit is extended to every policyholder of the Beneficial, the old as well as the new—All will share in the profits of the 1 Company. Our Juvenile insurance is written on the standard form basis, giving insurance for the children that is really worth while. It is now possible for the entire family to be protected by BENEFICIAL INSURANCE. It will pay you to see the local representative of the BENEFICIAL who will be pleased to furnish, without obligation, information and advice on your insurance problems. Beneficial Life Insurance Co. Home Office Vermont Bldg., Salt Lake City THE BIG HOME COMPANY When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine Heber J. Grant, President E. T. Ralphs, Gen. Mgr.
