THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE JANUARY 1930 Vol. XVII No.1 WINTER EXCURSION FARES Via Southern Pacific Lines To LOS ANGELES AND RETURN BOTH WAYS $50.50 To LOS ANGELES via SAN FRANCISCO returning $58 00 direct or route reversed ——Proportionately low fares from all other points in UTAH, IDAHO and MONTANA. STOPOVERS ALLOWED AT ALL POINTS. TICKETS ON SALE DAILY FINAL RETURN LIMIT 8 MONTHS PRESS BANCROFT, GENERAL AGENT' PHONES WAS. 3008—3078 Instant Starting with PEP The Gas with a Punch worth he GAS with a PUNCH ‘88' | WINTER'S HOTTEST GASOLINE Here's the new winter gasoline that brings to your car a wonderfully improved cold-weather performance. Yet it costs no more than ordinary gasoline! PEP '88' is the high quality, balanced, PEP gasoline you know so well, but made with a lower "initial boiling point" so that it starts quicker in cold weather. Try it. You won't need to use the choke so much. All PEP dealers can supply you with PEP '88'. Look for the signs. Manufactured and Guaranteed by. UTAH OIL REFINING COMPANY, Salt Lake City When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine via SAN FRANCISCO For further information CALL, WRITE or PHONE 41 SO. MAIN ST. SALT LAKE CITY AN OVERALL WITH A CLASSY APPEARANCE MOUNTAINEER EXPRESS STRIPE OVERALLS GUARANTEED FOR QUALITY, FIT, AND SERVICE A clean, neat appearing garment Operator, Dairyman, Garage Man, Teamster None Too Large ~ None Too Small Such Delicious Sandwiches
Good bread is the foundation of a good sandwich * * * and of good health, too. Try Long Royal. It is rich in nutriment, uniform in texture, wholesome and delicious in flavor!
Twice a Day At Your Grocer's
LONG ROYAL
When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine
L. D. S. GARMENTS WINTER LINE
Selected from our extensive line of L. D. S. Garments we suggest the following numbers for winter wear:
No. 1 New style, ribbed light wt. Cotton with rayon silk stripe. An excellent Ladies number......$1.25
No. 2 Old style, ribbed light wt. Cotton, our standard summer wt........... 1.25
No. 3 Ribbed med. wt. Cotton, bleached. Our all season number.............. 1.50
No. 4 Ribbed heavy wt. Unbleached cotton. Our double back number.... 2.25
No. 5 Part wool, ribbed unbleached. Our best selling wool number.... 3.00
No. 6 High grade rayon tricot silk. For particular people....... $4.00
No. 7 Light wt. New or old style, mercerized—silky finish ............... 1.75
No. 8 Ribbed heavy wt. Unbleached cotton and 50% wool. Our all wool number............ 4.25
No. 9 Light weight silk for ladies only, new style only ..................... 1.50
No. 10 Medium wt. Silk for men and women, new style only ................ 2.50
In ordering, be sure to specify whether old or new style garments, three-quarter or ankle length legs, short or long sleeves are wanted. Also give bust measure, height and weight to insure perfect fit. Postage prepaid.
FACTORY TO YOU—THE ORIGINAL
Utah Woolen Mills Briant Stringham, Manager 28 Richards Street One-Half Block South of Temple Gates
LIFE INSURANCE MEANS THRIFT
PROGRAMMED SAVINGS "SINKING FUND" FINANCIAL INDEPENDENCE SECURITY AT ONCE AS TO FINAL ESTATE
Add to Your Life Insurance During Thrift Week January 17 to 23
Beneficial Life Insurance Co. SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH HEBER J. GRANT, President E. T. RALPHS, Gen. Mgr.
WHERE YOU GET THE BEST THERE IS IN LIFE INSURANCE
When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine
L. D. S. GARMENTS
Good grade, and well made. When ordering, state Size, New or Old Style, and if for man or lady. Postage prepaid. Sample on request.
258 Needle, Flat Weave...$1.10 258 Double Card. Cot., Med. Wt. 1.95 308 Port Weight............... 1.35 628 Merc. Lisle, Light Wt......... 2.25 32 Combed Cotton, Lt. Wt...... 1.75 264 Rayon Silk. Fine Quality... 3.00 222 Cotton Rayon Stripes...... 1.65 748 Unbleached Cot., Hvy. Wt. 2.00 294 Ladies' New Style, Rayon.. 2.00 754 Bleached Cot., Hvy. Wt..... 2.25 302 Ladies' New Style, Rayon 2.50 908 Unbleached Cot., Ex. Hvy. 2.75 307 Men's New Style, Rayon.. 2.45 1072 Mixed Wool and Cotton...... 4.00
BARTON & CO. Established in Utah 45 Years 142 WEST SOUTH TEMPLE ST. Salt Lake City, Utah
SALT LAKE VISITING NURSING SERVICE
For general information call K. M. Hudson, R. N., 46 Truman Ave., Salt Lake City, Utah, Phone Hy. 6177. Service includes, Routine Visits, Maternity Service, Surgical Assistance at minor operations and Hourly Service by appointment, for special treatments or dressings.
L. D. S. GARMENTS Direct From Factory
You are guaranteed unusual wear and satisfaction from Cutler Garments. They are made from the best long wearing, two combed yarns.
No. 68 Ribbed ex. Light Cotton knee length $.75
No. 61 Ribbed Med. Hvy. Unbleached Cotton $1.35
No. 68 Old style, Ribbed light. Wt. Cotton, bleached 1.10
No. 74 Ribbed light. Wt. Cot....... 1.15
No. 55 Ribbed light Wt. Cot., Unbleached $.90
No. 84 Rib. Mercerized Lisle...... 2.50
No. 27 Rib. Med. Wt. 50% Wool.... 3.25
No. 191 Light. Wt. Lisle.......... 1.70
No. 64 Ribbed Med. Wt. Cot......... 1.20
No. 82 Silk and Wool... 4.50
WHITE TEMPLE PANTS Long Sleeves and Legs....... 2.85 8 oz. Heavy Duck $1.75
SPECIAL MISSIONARY DISCOUNTS
In ordering garments please state if for men or women and if old or new styles are wanted. Also give bust, height and weight.
SPECIAL—When you order three pair of garments at one time we allow you a 15% discount on the third pair. Marking 15c. Postage Prepaid.
GARMENTS LONG WEARING UNDERWEAR
When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine
TEMPLE WORK
In reviewing the record of achievements for the year 1929 our hearts are full of gratitude and appreciation for the fine work done by our sisters in the Temples of the Lord.
The beautiful spirit of service which has inspired so many Relief Society women to interest themselves in the work for their kindred is typical of the organization.
We appreciate the difficulties under which they labor and the sacrifice often entailed in accomplishing this purpose. No more important labor can be undertaken than this for God's Children who had not the privilege themselves, of doing that which means exaltation in Our Father's Kingdom.
We encourage them in this glorious service which is "twice blest", enriching the one who gives and the one who receives.
THE PRESIDENCY AND GENERAL BOARD RELIEF SOCIETY
When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine
GREETINGS
The first year of the General Relief Society Organization under its present leadership has drawn to a close, and at the beginning of the New Year, it is the desire of the Presidency and General Board to express their love and gratitude to all the sisters.
Sincere thanks go to the Stakes for their fine response and for their cooperation in everything asked of them; the efforts they made to carry out all instructions, and make the conferences successful; the uniform care and courtesy extended to the General Board members who feel themselves greatly enriched by the fine contacts they have made in their visits to the Stakes.
The many beautiful messages and Christmas greetings which have come into the Office, from you dear sisters, constitute a source of great joy. Loving appreciation is expressed to every one for these, and a most fervent prayer is uttered—that our Father's choicest blessing will be with every Relief Society sister throughout the coming year.
THE PRESIDENCY AND GENERAL BOARD RELIEF SOCIETY
When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine
Ask for one of our folders describing the different services we offer.
Distinctive Work Office 319 S. Main St.
Hyland 190
1930 Browning Drake Radio ALL ELECTRIC—WITH DYNAMIC SPEAKER
Outstanding Tone No Exaggerated Distance-Advertising But— The Set Has IT It Is Sweet Tone In the Home
HAPPY NEW YEAR
If Your Dealer Hasn't Got It—Write Direct
Distributors Browning-Drake Dist. Co. 135 SOUTH MAIN SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH
Properly Pasteurized and Clarified! Phone Wasatch 2177
Clover Leaf SELECTED
When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine
CONTENTS
Greeting and Praise .................... Lula Greene Richards 3 Portrait of Mrs. Elsie E. Barrett...... 4 One Sunrise............................ Elsie E. Barrett 5 Portrait of Mrs. Linnie Fisher Robinson 6 Extolled.............................. Linnie Fisher Robinson 7 Portrait of Mrs. Margaret Mitchell Caine 8 A Tribute............................. Annie Wells Cannon 9 Medical Aspects of the Word of Wisdom ................................... Dr. L. Weston Oakes, M. D. 13 Presidents of Relief Society of Liberty Stake 14 Address............................... Dr. Joseph F. Merrill 15 Prohibition........................... Oscar W. McConkie 17 Training School for Feeble-minded ................................... Amy Brown Lyman 22 Theological Studies for the........ Julia A. F. Lund 24 Editorial—The Bright New Year........ 26 Eliza Roxey Snow Poem Contest... 27 Pres. Louise Y. Robison Speaks at General Conference.................... 27 General Board of Relief Society Expresses Appreciation of Organist 28 Notes from the Field.................. 29 Guide Lessons for March............... 31 A Midland Trilogy.................... Lois V. Hales 53
THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
Organ of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints Room 20 Bishop's Bldg. Salt Lake City, Utah $1.00 a Year—Single Copy, 10c Foreign, $1.25 a Year—15c Single Copy
Entered as second-class matter at Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah Phone Wasatch 3123
Scotty Anderson and his Dogs... Frontispiece
VOL. XVII JANUARY, 1930 No. 1
Greetings and Praise
For the Year Nineteen Hundred and Thirty.
Grand Centennial, blest year! As thy dawning doth appear Trusting saints rejoice and praise, while faith expands With the countless blessings brought In the great salvation wrought For the Church of Christ through near and distant lands.
Joseph Smith, the child and man Through whom God revealed the plan And restored to earth the Gospel's saving rays— Joseph-Prophet, Priest and Seer, Now we hail the hundredth year Since he formed the Church of Christ of Latter-days.
Rescued from false, worldly pride, Saints must in the truth abide, True repentance in forgiving hearts maintain. Thus prepared-wait, watch and pray For the fast approaching day When The Savior shall in glory come to reign.
Zion's watchmen publish peace, Temples, power, and grace increase— Lo the glory of her rising lifts the cloud! Let her sons their tributes bring, Let her joyous daughters sing, And her little ones shout gladly long and loud.
Yea! Let Zion offer praise For the years and for the days Which are making strong her aged and her youth. For the wisdom thou hast taught, The salvation thou hast wrought, O Jehovah! Gracious God of light and truth.
Grand Centennial, blest year! Virtue, love, good-will, and cheer Let the saints of God uphold in all their ways, To his Prophets' words attend, Each to all prove staunch, true friend— And to Father, Son, and Holy Ghost all praise.
—Lula Greene Richards.
MRS. ELSIE E. BARRETT
One Sunrise Mrs. Elsie E. Barrett, Los Angeles, California, Awarded First Prize in the Eliza R. Snow Memorial Contest
The robes of Dawn Fast fade to fawn, Night's vigil quickly ending; Pale orange links With amber pinks To naples yellow blending;
Rose clouds gold-rimmed O'er mountains dimmed With dusky shadows fleeting; Mauve tints that leap From craig to peak The blue-grey veils are meeting;
Blue pines jade dripped And golden tipped In purple canyons glowing; The Valley's shade, Each bush and blade The Sun's first rays are showing;
Quick rays that start, O'er hilltops dart And pierce the last mist dreaming; The Day has burst! The Dawn dispersed SUNRISE in GLORY beaming!
MRS. LINNIE FISHER ROBINSON
Extolled Mrs. Linnie Fisher Robinson, Salt Lake City, Utah, Awarded Second Prize in the Eliza R. Snow Memorial Contest.
I fashioned me a little rhyme And made it tender, sweet, and gay; I filled it full of beauteous thoughts, And dwelt with it the live-long day.
It gave my clouds a lighter hue, And minded me how good God is; It made each tree a living soul, And every wind a healing kiss.
It covered up a deep, deep scar, And fought against my loneliness; It was so full of love and cheer I titled it True Friendliness.
Far better than I dreamed, it sang Into the world with golden notes: Where e'er I wander now, I hear The echo as it softly floats.
MRS. MARGARET MITCHELL CAINE
THE Relief Society Magazine
VOL. XVII JANUARY, 1930 No. 1
A Tribute
Margaret Mitchell Caine Born August 28, 1859; Died November 6, 1929.
By Annie Wells Cannon
"To glorify the common offices of life, that is the grandest part of a woman's work in the world."
Hard as partings are, it is nevertheless a beautiful thought that in merciful tenderness the great Reaper gathers to himself those who have bravely borne life's burdens through long weary years; those whose loneliness was manifest even amidst the happy throng; those whose nearest and dearest were gone beyond recall, and yet do well each daily task until the final summons. Such a one has filled life's mission to the fullest, has played her part in life's drama to perfection; with joy indeed can she pass the portals where loved ones await her and receive that just reward given those who have fought "the good fight and kept the faith."
Mrs. Caine was the oldest daughter of Frederick A. and Margaret Mitchell, both active in Church affairs in the 13th Ward in Salt Lake City, where Margaret was born August 28, 1859. Her father was a successful and prominent merchant, her mother a cultivated and beautiful woman, who outside the home engaged in kindly acts for others less fortunate than herself. She was counselor to Sister Rachel Grant, mother of President Heber J. Grant, in the ward Relief Society, so relief work was something of a heritage to Margaret, who enlisted when quite young in the same cause.
Maggie Mitchell, as her friends and dear ones called her, had a happy and pleasant childhood. The environment of her early years was refined and cultural. In those pioneer days, before the railroad came, there were few homes more comfortably or finely furnished than the Mitchell home, which was always a choice gathering place for neighbors and friends. She was a bright, intelligent little girl, surpassing many of her companions in school and Sunday School classes. Her opportunities were as good as the times afforded. She attended the private schools of Mr. Raeger and Miss Mary Cook who taught in the old Social Hall, and later she attended the University of Deseret. For a Sunday School teacher she was favored in having dear Aunt Zina Young, whose angelic influence left its mark on many of her pupils; for she not only taught to them the Book of Mormon and the gospel, but instilled in their souls an abiding faith in the goodness and mercy of the Lord.
Maggie's father, Brother Frederick A. Mitchell, performed two missions to the Hawaiian Islands, and on the one taken in 1873 took his family with him. Maggie was then 14 years old. She had a circle of playmates of whom she was very fond; this was the first parting and quite an event to that group of little girls. It had its romance as well as its sadness, for soon there were other partings of the way, never to be again renewed—but now there must be parties and gifts and farewells and promises of letters, just as there are today when one takes a journey, only then it was a much rarer occasion. True to her promise, she wrote home some very interesting letters, which from the pen of one so young were quite remarkable. Descriptions of the foliage, flowers, and beauty of the Islands, the grandeur and magnificence of the great Pacific, the fierceness, fury, and thrill of Mauna Loa erupting fire and molten lava—what a spectacle for children to contemplate! But what astounded them most was the fact that they had been superseded by a group of little Kanakas as playmates.
Shortly after the return from this mission, her father engaged in business in Coalville, Summit County, and moved his family there. It was here Maggie met, and was wooed and won by young Alfred Caine, son of Hon. John T. Caine, delegate from Utah to Congress, and business manager for many years of the Salt Lake Herald. This union was happy in every respect and the future looked most promising. The young couple made their abode for a short time in Coalville, then moved to Salt Lake City, where eventually they built a commodious and pretty home. Four little ones came to bless this union, but the shadow of death hovered near and two boys and a lovely little girl died in infancy. This great sorrow actuated all the more the love and tenderness bestowed upon the one son "Fred," who was left to them. When nine short years had passed, her husband, Alfred Caine, died from typhoid fever. Now came the real test of her womanhood, when in her widowed sorrow she had herself and little son to care for. Bravely she faced the issue and carried on.
When President Heber J. Grant was called to go to Japan to open up that mission, "Fred" Caine was one of the young men called to accompany him. This young man filled a fine mission in Japan, remaining there several years; during that time he acquired a knowledge of the Japanese language and customs and assisted in the translation of the Book of Mormon and several Latter-day Saint hymns into Japanese. After his return from this mission he married and moved to Idaho Falls, where he became stake president, honored and beloved by his associates, a credit always to the name he bore and to the teachings of his devoted mother. His untimely death last summer no doubt hastened her demise a few weeks later.
Mrs. Caine lived a useful and busy life, engaging in many varied activities. She was greatly interested in sericulture, being a member of the territorial organization. She not only traveled extensively in the effort to promote this industry and encourage the women to raise cocoons and plant the necessary mulberry trees, but she also did this thing herself and won prizes at the Fair for her fine specimens of silk cocoons and raw silk. She also learned to spin and weave the silk. She helped put the measure through the legislature for a bounty on cocoons in order to put the industry on a firm basis, and was among the most active protestants when that act was repealed. At the World's Fair at Chicago in 1893 she had charge of the Utah silk exhibit and demonstrated the procedure of its manufacture. She at that time and during the preparation of Utah's exhibit was private secretary to Mrs. Margaret Blaine Salisbury, chairman for Utah of the Board of Lady Managers.
For a period of six years, from 1902 to 1908, she was a member of the General Board of the Relief Society under the presidency of Bathsheba W. Smith. In this capacity she traveled extensively throughout the different stakes, visiting the people and instructing in Relief Society work. She was especially interested in the practical nurse work of the organization and a sincere advocate of the gleaning and storing of wheat.
In 1899 Mrs. Caine, in company with Mrs. Emmeline B. Wells, Mrs. Susa Young Gates, and a large group of Utah women, attended the quinquennial of the International Council of Women held in London, and with them was a guest at many brilliant functions given in honor of the delegates to the Council, one of which was the Queen's tea at Windsor Castle. While on this journey she availed herself of the opportunities of visiting historic places in the British Isles, including the city of Edinburgh, also Shakespeare's home at Stratford-on-Avon, and other shrines connected with the immortal bard.
She was an early ordinance worker in the Salt Lake temple and continued in that work during her entire life, having been at her post of service until within a few days of her death, covering a period of over thirty years. She was in politics a Democrat and worked for her party in local primaries and conventions, being rewarded at one time with the position of county auditor. She was a member of the Reapers' Club and the Utah Woman's Press Club, giving to both of these organizations her usual earnestness and loyalty.
Hers was a life replete with usefulness and good deeds. Sometimes she may have felt the journey long and life's lessons hard; but her patience, her forbearance, her industry, her faith, gave her an experience that proved a strength and staff to the end of the way. Such was the nature of Margaret Mitchell Caine. She knew "How sublime a thing it is to suffer and be strong."
The Rainbow's Ending
If the rainbow spanned a prismy arch, When I was young and bolder, It spans a golden super-arch Today when I am older.
If skies were blue when I was young, With cloud-dust intertwining, Today their blue with gold is spun And clouds have turned their lining.
If friends were allies in my youth To joy-dreams of the morrow, Today in tested ranks of truth They steady me in sorrow.
And so I cull from out the past A fuller, deeper blending; And in the things that live and last I find the rainbow's ending.
—Bertha A. Kleinman.
Medical Aspects of the Word of Wisdom By L. Weston Oakes, M. D.
A book recently published by the Brigham Young University, written by a member of its medical staff, shows that at the time the revelation known as the "Word of Wisdom" was given there were in the medical world numerous schools based upon different hypotheses concerning the causes of disease, prescribing drugs dosing with alcohol, "stuffing the body with food for one disease and starving it for another," practising "blood-letting and various other uncertain means" for the supposed welfare of the human system. Then came the Word of Wisdom, declaring against strong drinks, tobacco, the excessive use of meats and other forms of intemperance. This was a direct challenge to the medical learning of that time.
Dr. Oakes discusses the subject in five chapters: Introduction, Alcohol and Humanity, Tobacco and Humanity, The Tea and Coffee Question, Bits of Health Wisdom. The findings of modern science on the effects of alcohol on the human body, are given in some detail, its effects upon parenthood and the unborn, upon the nervous system and upon long life, are presented by the testimony of specialists in each of these fields.
"A little alcohol," writes one of the authorities, "lessens self-consciousness, with the result that the subject speaks without reserve, and without confining himself to what is important. Conversation is diluted with trivialities. We may admit that this is enlivening. But how much the animating potency of wine at banquets, is over-estimated! There is a simple reason for its undeserved reputation; and this is found in lowered standards of judgment on the part of those who listen to what is said. The ready laughter and applause do not indicate brilliancy on the part of the speaker nearly so often as a readiness to be amused on the part of the listeners. In the midst of such company, the total abstainer feels an amazement verging on disgust, as he observes the demonstrations that greet speeches which in themselves are wholly inane and commonly in bad taste."
The case against tobacco is similarly pungent, powerful and convincing. Young people will do well to read this concise book of 125 pages filled from cover to cover with striking demonstrations of the baneful effects of intemperance.
Presidents of Relief Society of Liberty Stake
LOTTA PAUL BAXTER, MYRTLE SHURTLIFF, HAZEL GREENWOOD, EFFIE MERRITT, ANNIE S. MUSSER, IDA S. REES;
The following women have each in turn presided over the Relief Society of Liberty Stake: Sister Annie S. Musser, Sister Effie Merrill, Sister Lotta Paul Baxter, Sister Myrtle Shurtliff and Sister Hazel Greenwood. Sister Ida D. Rees being the present incumbent. Sister Lotta Paul Baxter and Sister Hazel Greenwood are at present serving on the General Board of the Relief Society. We thought it an opportune time to make use of this portrait while all are living.
Address By Dr. Joseph F. Merrill, Church Commissioner of Education
I feel greatly honored and doubly pleased with the opportunity of coming here, because from one point of view I am talking, practically, to the entire Church. May I outline to you what religious education the Church is providing?
First — I claim it first because it comprehends the entire Church membership from the cradle to the grave — is the Sunday School organization, meeting on the most favorable day in the week, at the most favorable hour of the day, and doing effective work in religious instruction.
As to the opportunities for weekday religious training, one of the first changes I made was to transfer teacher-training from the Department of Education to the Sunday School. Then came the transfer of a large amount of weekday religious training to the Primary Association. Some have asked if I am trying to destroy the Department of Education. It matters not how small the Department of Education becomes, if the changes improve the religious training of the people. The transfer of teacher-training to the Sunday School places teacher-training in charge of the organization best qualified to carry it on.
A survey disclosed that the Primary and the Religion Class work were being duplicated. The majority of the children did not belong to both — they would belong to the one or the other. We decided that it would be better to make one effective than to carry two that were not. Therefore, we have abandoned nothing —I would like that message to get over — of weekday religious training. The Primary organization has the added responsibility of weekday instruction previously given in the elementary grades.
The seminaries carry forward the weekday religious training that formerly ended with the sixth grade in the public schools. What is the junior seminary? It is only Religion Class under a new name for grades 7, 8 and 9 of the public schools. Heretofore Religion Class work has ended with the eighth grade. We have had seminaries in the high schools, but there is an increase in the number of high schools. Most of the ninth grade students in Utah, as well as a large portion in Idaho, do not go to senior high school at all, and as we have been previously operating, there was in the ninth grade what one of our teachers called the tragic gap. In this city there are 25,000 junior high school students, few of whom our organizations are reaching, and so it was felt that if we can so organize that we can carry forward this work as effectively as ever, the Religion Class, by including the ninth grade, will be doing more than ever before.
We are trying to effect a junior seminary organization. That will begin where the Primary leaves off. One problem occurs where the children are taken to and from school in buses. How can we carry junior seminary work forward there? In certain stakes arrangements have been made for the children to be released from public school in time to get junior seminary training. Some schools report 100 per cent of the students in the junior seminary work. We go to the home and secure their support, without which we know in advance that we shall fail. The response from the homes has been most generous.
In the schools, pupils are taught that they must do their own thinking, that they are responsible for themselves. The young people are feeling that new freedom; therefore we must give them positive religious instruction if we are to hold them.
Senior seminary work comes in the high schools, under the supervision of paid teachers. Today we are serving 87 public institutions — 83 high school groups, and 4 college groups. As means will permit, this seminary work will extend until it reaches every high school and college, junior and senior, where our people attend in sufficient numbers to warrant the establishment of an institution.
President Robison's saying that there is nothing so dear to the heart of parents as the training of their children, is proved by the sacrifices the Latter-day Saints have made for it. May I read from a journal. A university president last June was addressing the graduating class at a baccalaureate service. Two thousand or more young people, ready to receive their degrees, were in the assembly. The president said:
"One reason that in educated communities today there is a weakening of the hold which the orthodox religions have on the thoughts and actions of those who are young and independent is the static and ritualistic conception of God and of His word, which those religions insist must be accepted. There are, however, unmistakable signs that the proportion of those who find spiritual enlightenment by blind obedience to vested authority is decreasing with great rapidity."
Your young people attending schools and colleges are reading this magazine. Teachers suggest these ideas and assign these topics for your young people to write essays about. There is in this country today a war upon established religion. The thing to do is to arm ourselves in advance. We have one university, six junior colleges, one academy — only eight schools now maintained in the Church; but we have the seminaries. These offer opportunities for weekday religious instruction for all of the young people they can possibly reach. We shall succeed in accomplishing this purpose only with your backing and help, and may you feel keenly alive to the necessity of supporting the Church educational program.
Prohibition Judge Oscar W. McConkie
On December 18, 1917, the Eighteenth Amendment was submitted to the States by Congress and on January 8, 1918, the first State, Mississippi, ratified it. Nebraska, the last of the first 36 states to approve, ratified on January 16, 1919, whereupon the Secretary of State, by proclamation, made January 29, 1919, caused that it should become effective one year from Nebraska's ratification, or on January 16, 1920. By February 25, 1919, 45 of the states had ratified and on March 9, 1922, New Jersey, the 46th, followed, leaving Connecticut and Rhode Island declining so to do.
The Votes of States and Nation
In a majority of cases the vote of the ratifying states was overwhelming. With the exception of four, New York, Maryland, Montana, and Nevada, the several states passed enforcement acts. With the view of creating machinery within the government for the Eighteenth Amendment's enforcement, in October, 1919, the Congress passed the Volstead Act. It was vetoed by President Wilson, but so strong was the congressional will that it was immediately passed over the President's veto by vote of 176 to 55 in the House and 65 to 20 in the Senate. At the time the Eighteenth Amendment was ratified twelve states were already bone dry, six by legislative enactment and six by popular vote, while 18 others had state-wide restrictions. All bone-dry laws had been passed after the beginning of the World War in 1914.
The express intention of the Eighteenth Amendment and the enactments that followed was to prohibit the manufacture, sale, barter, transportation, importation, exportation, delivery or furnishing of any intoxicating liquors, or the possession thereof, except under the provisions of the law, and the word "liquor" was defined to mean alcohol, brandy, whisky, rum, gin, beer, ale, porter, and wine, and other beverages containing one-half of one per cent or more of alcohol.
The Protest of Brewers
After the ratification of the Eighteenth Amendment, brewery interests retained Elihu Root to contest the law and Charles E. Hughes was chief counsel for the prohibition interests. The matter was fully considered and determined, but agitation did not stop there. With increased vigilance energies were renewed. Contrary to law, brewer corporations contributed financial aid to wet political organizations. But when the breaking down of constitutional law is the aim, the striking down of statutory law seems of small moment to him who rides thus shod. The appalling compensation of these and kindred efforts — together with the help of well meaning persons who have no apparent vision and but little understanding — is disrespect for not only this law but contempt for all law that does not meet individual approval.
Widespread Consumption of Alcoholic Drinks
The fact must not be ignored, also, that there are large numbers of intelligent and patriotic people who have both vision and understanding but who do not believe that the 18th Amendment is in harmony with the fundamentals of our government. Whatever the reason, it is a fact that many men and women in whom are reposed public trusts, daily violate the law. It is also true that in greater or less degree and in one form or another the use of alcohol has been almost world-old as an article of worldwide consumption. In far-apart countries peoples have used it. Grain, fruit, and milk have long furnished ingredients for its manufacture. Indeed it has been said that one must go to the Turks of Asia Minor or to the innermost recesses of the Sahara to find peoples who are free from it.
The Cost of Prohibition
The New York Times has made the claim that eight years of prohibition enforcement cost the government $177,716,000, at the same time pointing to the fact that during the same period only $38,390,889.36 was collected in fines and penalties. The government, it is said, profited $284,008,512.62 from liquor revenue during the eight years previous to 1918, and that from January 16, 1920, to October 31, 1927, 47 officers and 126 civilians were killed in the enforcement of the law.
The Cost of Crime
Without minimizing the loss of enforcement I refer you to an infinitely greater loss, of which loss the use of alcohol is admitted as one of the positive and approximate causes. In the United States there are 12,000 annual homicides, or more than 2,000 times as many as the number of officers killed in enforcing prohibition. Financial crimes cost approximately 250 times as much as the cost of prohibition enforcement. The loss of production on prisoners is two billion dollars annually. Between nine and ten billion dollars is our annual cost of crime. One million persons are annually committed to penal institutions. The cost of policing the country, detecting crime, convicting persons, caring for them before and after conviction, etc., is three billion dollars annually. In other words the annual cost of crime to the government and the country is two and one half times the average annual receipts of the government; is three times the average national budget; is three times the customs and internal revenue; and is twelve times the cost of the army and navy. It is approximately 500 times the entire cost of prohibition enforcement.
It is true that human intelligence cannot determine just what proportion of the expenditure of these incomprehensible sums is made necessary because of alcoholic beverages, but it will scarcely be doubted that the proportion is material.
Effects of Alcohol
Reverence inspires obedience and intoxicating beverages destroy reverence. Irreverence is the mother of crime. How, then, can rational men assert that intoxicating liquors are not responsible, directly and indirectly, for much of the crime that costs the nation such stupendous sums?
As to the virtue of temperance, we are not left to the wisdom of men. "Behold, verily, thus saith the Lord unto you: In consequence of evils and designs which do and will exist in the hearts of conspiring men in the last days, I have warned you, and forewarn you, by giving unto you this word of wisdom by revelation —That inasmuch as any man drinketh wine or strong drink among you, behold it is not good, neither meet in the sight of your father, only in assembling yourselves together to offer up your sacraments before him."
Change to Better Foods
Milk is one of our most healthful foods. From 1917 to 1924 its consumption increased fifty percent, an increase far exceeding that in population. Increased advertising of its food values partly explain the increase, but in the opinion of persons in official position, prohibition has been the important factor in promoting its popularity. Restaurants and hotels substitute it for beverages. On thousands of street corners where liquors were sold, are now orange juice and ice cream stands. Their consumption increased phenomenally with the passing of the saloon. The consumption of ice cream more than doubled. Prevailing mid-day beef steaks served in thousands of saloons passed, salads and sandwiches taking their place. Coffee and tea merchants contemplated a great harvest, but, peculiarly enough, the consumption per capita remained practically the same. Less drinking at meals resulted in lighter eating. Eating habits were transformed, the effect upon health being apparent. Alcohol Lowers Efficiency Herbert Hoover, when Secretary of Commerce, ascribed to prohibition an increase of efficiency in the individual worker of the United States of upwards of ten percent. He stated: "There is no question that prohibition is making America more productive." In his annual report of 1925 he reviewed the country's gain in national efficiency since 1920 and credited prohibition as one of the important causes of the increase. I quote, also, Professor Thomas Nixon Carver, eminent Harvard University authority 20 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE: "I am convinced," said he, "that one important factor in promotion, in maintaining a scarcity of high grade men, and at the same time increasing the superabundance of low grade men, is drink. Drunkenness, or anything that tends to destroy a man's dependability, would tend to prevent his promotion or cause his demotion, thus increasing the congestion in the lower occupations. Anything which makes for sobriety should, other things equal, increase the rate of promotion, and thus relieve the congestion at the bottom." A survey of manufacturing plants and industrial centers revealed that the workers were, since prohibition, taking more interest in sports, week-end vacations and daily recreation, thus materially increasing their efficiency and adding to their energy. Gain in Real Values Notwithstanding clamor to the contrary, it is asserted by students that infinitely less money is now spent annually for liquor than before prohibition. Savings banks reported an increase in depositors from an annual average of a few million when prohibition came, to 46,762,240 in 1926. A survey of insurance companies showed that the heads of families were at home nights in far greater numbers after prohibition began, and industrial concerns reported material decline in loss from accidents. With prohibition the financial burden of the states in caring for dependent children, in cases where intemperance was the approximate cause, decreased approximately fifty percent. Real estate values, formerly cheapened by adjoining saloons, increased and where there had been naught but buy and drink there was substituted investment and the desire for more investment. Indeed, just as man's blood reaches every part of the physical body, so does the use of intoxicating liquor fasten itself upon every parcel of the temporal structure. An indictment against it would charge that it not only damages the nerves, acts as a narcotic, weakens the heart, lowers resistance, hinders immunity, increases typhoid mortality, lessens nerve sensibility, impairs judgment, detracts from nerve and muscle power, lowers blood pressure, causes irritation and checks digestion, smothers spirituality and destroys reverence, but would also charge that it is equally harmful to the economic structure. Prof. Fisher wrote: "The mental worker who takes alcohol voluntarily puts a yoke upon himself. He limits the exercise of his faculties; for he cannot judge so wisely, will so forcefully, think so clearly, as when his system is free from alcohol. The athlete who takes alcoholic liquor is similarly handicapped; for he is not free to run so fast, jump so high, pitch a baseball so accurately as when his system is free from the drug. Any one who has become a 'slave to alcohol' has lost the very essence of personal liberty."
PROHIBITION
Enforcement is the Problem
I have sought to speak only of the temporal side of alcohol and have said nothing about state sovereignty, individual liberties or the wisdom or lack of wisdom of making the 18th Amendment a part of the Constitution. Our problem is an enforcement problem. Law will not execute itself. It is not enough to simply refrain from the violation of law. We must be aggressive. Evidence must be found and prosecutions begun. If we are unwilling or too indolent to lend ourselves to that end then the law will lie prostrate. Where all men favor a law, there is no enforcement problem. In the case at issue millions of our citizens are not in present accord with it. Therein lies our greatest difficulty. We can devote ourselves to its enforcement. Because of the "designs which do and will exist in the hearts of conspiring men in the last days" it is necessary that we do so.
Resolution to Uphold the Prohibition Law
By Counselor Julia A. Child
One of our Articles of Faith says: 'We believe in being subject to kings, presidents, rulers, and magistrates, in obeying, honoring, and sustaining the law." I feel that, to a great extent, it rests with the mothers as to how this 18th Amendment to the Constitution of the United States is carried out. As mothers, if we are united, we can do a very great deal in enforcing that law, and I should like to present for consideration a resolution to be adopted by the members of this organization,
Resolution
WHEREAS there is widespread disrespect for and numerous violations of the 18th Amendment to our national constitution, which prohibits the manufacture, possession or use of intoxicating liquor,
AND WHEREAS the National Woman's Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints views with alarm and sorrow the many evil consequences of such disrespect and such violations which, if continued, will destroy human life and happiness, and also undermine confidence in government:
Therefore. BE IT RESOLVED that the organization calls upon all its members to live in strict accord with both the letter and the spirit of the prohibition law in their homes and in all other places, and that they use every proper endeavor to persuade others to do likewise, to the end that peace and safety may be assured, and that loyalty to law and government may prevail.
Training School for the Feeble-Minded
By Counselor Amy Brown Lyman
I feel that a brief report of the work of the Commission appointed to select a site for the Utah State Training School for the Feeble-minded, is due the Relief Society women. At the last session of the legislature, a law was passed providing for such an institution and carrying an appropriation of $300,000. You will recall the part the Relief Society women took in helping to bring about the passage of the bill, by personally interviewing your legislators and by circulating petitions. Soon after the close of the legislative session, the Governor appointed a commission of five to select a site. The members are: Governor George H. Dern, chairman; Mr. D. A. Skeen of Salt Lake City; Mayor John Booth of Spanish Fork; Mr. Roy Thatcher of Ogden; Mrs. Amy Brown Lyman of Salt Lake City.
The commission sought advice from states having such an institution, and applied to the Director of the Experiment Station of the Agricultural College for a soil expert and a hydraulic engineer to give expert advice as to soil, water, drainage, and sewage. Letters were written also to individuals who were experts in these matters. As the Governor had already planned to attend a convention of Governors in Boston, and as the secretary of the commission was scheduled to attend a bar convention in the East, it was easy and inexpensive for them to visit some of the outstanding institutions. Director P. V. Cardon of the Agricultural College, with Professor Clyde, hydraulic engineer, and Doctors Jennings and Stewart, soil experts, accompanied the commission in investigating sites. Two additional experts, Dr. Allen, superintendent of the Vermont State Training School, and Dr. Calder of Los Angeles, a native Utahn, also assisted. The aid of these physicians, both psychiatrists excellently trained and with long experience in institutional work, was invaluable to the commission.
Some of the decisions reached were:
1. That the school be located as near as possible to the center of population of the State; near the seat of government, the medical school, and social agencies; also near the best transportation facilities and the sources of supply.
2. That the school should be near a city or town, so that employees can easily have interests in, and identify themselves with, the community, thus insuring the best type of employees and instructors.
3. That the site should have at the outset enough land to provide for future growth. (Some authorities claim that there should be one acre per child, and others half an acre; we should have about six or seven hundred acres of land.)
4. That the land should be fertile, and able to produce all kinds of grain.
5. That a water supply, adequate for both irrigation and culinary purposes, is very important. (Some of the sites offered have been eliminated because of scarcity of water.)
It is hoped that this institution will eventually be largely self-sustaining; hence there must be in connection with it farming, gardening, dairying, fruit raising. In such institutions it is the practice to have practically all the work done by the pupils. The commission has visited more than thirty sites, making notes and observations; and when the site is finally selected, you may know that, in the opinion of the commission, it will be the best location available.
The state law provides for two departments in the institution: a school department, for instruction and training for those within the school age, or who are capable of being benefited by school instruction; a custodial department, which will consist of those beyond school age, or not capable of being benefited by school instruction. The latter group will be given training in unskilled labor, kindergarten work, arts, crafts, etc. The law states also that this institution is not for feeble-minded convicts or defective delinquent children.
Regarding feeble-mindedness, I should like to state that just a few of us are entirely able-bodied, so most of us go through life more or less mentally handicapped. Between the mental disability of which the possessor may never be conscious, and so-called feeble mindedness, there are all possible gradations, and all of us fit in somewhere along the line. Psychiatrists tell us that a so-called feeble-minded person differs from the normal person only in learning ability, and that the principles of mental hygiene apply to him just as they do to the rest of society; that we all have the same emotional problems. The aim of society is to assist the child of slow learning ability to good personality development and to success. When the child of poor learning ability attends regular schools, he soon comes to feel inferior, losing self respect and self confidence, both of which are essential to mental health. So it is recommended that those with slow learning ability be placed in ability groups rather than in so-called defective classes. In fact, it is the idea of modern education that all children should be placed in groups with others of like ability. This enables pupils to go fast or slow, just as they are able, and keeps them from making dismal failures. Failure, to the pupil of slow learning ability, is just as tragic as it is to the normal child. The basic idea, then, of a training school for the feeble-minded, is to make it possible for the pupils to learn just as they are able to learn, and what they are able to learn — in other words to give them exactly the right opportunity. With such a special state school, and with opportunity for special classes in the regular schools for retarded pupils, all children should have opportunity to do what they are capable of doing.
I have been authorized by the state commission to express officially to you the appreciation of the commission for the excellent work you have done in helping to secure this much needed institution, and to thank you, in their behalf, for your aid. I think Relief Society women could do nothing finer than to help to better opportunity those who lack initiative and ability to work for themselves.
Theological Studies for the Year
By General Secretary Julia A. F. Lund
It has been suggested that I make a few remarks on the theological study selected for the Relief Society for this present year. The Relief Society feels that, within the scope of its organization, it affords a wonderful place for theological education. The tide of a nation's life can rise no higher than its womanhood! The mother holds the strategic position in the home; in the life of the people, therefore, it is necessary that she be versed in lines of study that are vital in life. There is no more important subject than that of theology. Man cannot live by bread alone, but by every word that proceedeth from the mouth of God. We feel that our mothers should be informed in this knowledge of the word of God.
I would like to refer to the Article of Faith that says, "We believe the Book of Mormon to be the word of God." We have taken it as the subject of our studies. As we approach the one hundredth anniversary of the organization of the Church, let us give attention to this marvelous book. It is a source of great satisfaction, and a great stimulant in the promotion and development of our faith that we can turn our attention to the foundation stones upon which our faith is reared. During past years we have given study to the Hebrew scriptures, the life of the Savior as portrayed in the New Testament, the gospel dispensations, and many other interesting fields, and now it seems proper to review and refresh our memories with a more intimate knowledge of this great book of scripture. Our faith is the most vital power in our life today; it is the great judgment-forming institution of life, supplying the objective for our best efforts. It gives us the force and the power to face life in the blackest situations.
We propose to study the Book of Mormon in the light of the knowledge we may have had in the past, to correlate it with our knowledge of the Testament studies, and to see in both the life of the Savior, with the inspiration which will come from that study. It has been suggested in the preview that we first read the Book of Mormon thoroughly to gain a picture of the work in its fulness. Step by step, as we read of their development, we can see in the calling of Lehi much the same purpose as in the calling of Abraham. Along with Abraham, as the Lord spoke to him face to face and told him of the mighty spirits in heaven, we like to think of Lehi as being among this group, and we would trace the people from their small beginning to the mighty nation developed upon the American continent. We touch the marvelous romance, the great dramatic situations, and the marvelously interesting events. Then, perhaps during the second year of the study, we can give more particular attention to the doctrinal phases of the Book of Mormon. Though in any study of the Book of Mormon we cannot miss the spiritual life that breathes from every page, yet in this second year of study we direct more attention to the principles of the gospel as they are set forth in the lives of the great leaders — Lehi and Nephi. The third year could perhaps be devoted to a study of the divine authenticity of the book, as it is reflected through the internal and external evidences that are developing day by day. The Book of Mormon, from the standpoint of theological teaching is one of the most perfect books ever written; it gives us the gospel in its purity and strength, and we would have our women know it through the reading and research that they themselves can give. The Book of Mormon has been with us for more than one hundred years; it has been the target for adverse criticism and for ridicule — the most dreadful intellectual weapon that can be wielded; but it stands today unanswerable, undisputed in its divine authenticity. We would know this book; we would know of the beautiful things that are therein contained, and we believe that our women can know them if they will follow the advice of the book itself: "Behold I would exhort you that when ye shall read these things, if it be wisdom in God that ye should read them, that ye would remember how merciful the Lord hath been unto the children of men, from the creation of Adam, even down until the time that ye shall receive these things, and ponder it in your hearts. And when ye shall receive these things, I would exhort you that ye would ask God, the eternal Father, in the name of Christ, if these things are not true; and if ye shall ask with a sincere heart, with real intent, having faith in Christ, he will manifest the truth of it unto you, by the power of the Holy Ghost; by the power of the Holy Ghost ye may know the truth of all things."
THE RELIEF SOCIETY OF THE CHURCH OF JESUS CHRIST OF LATTER-DAY SAINTS
Motto—Charity Never Faileth
THE GENERAL BOARD
MRS. LOUISE YATES ROBISON - - President MRS. AMY BROWN LYMAN - - - - - - - First Counselor MRS. JULIA ALLEMANN CHILD - - - - Second Counselor MRS. JULIA A. F. LUND - - General Secretary and Treasurer
Mrs. Emma A. Empey Mrs. Lotta Paul Baxter Mrs. Nettie D. Bradford Mrs. Jeanette A. Hyde Mrs. Cora L. Brennion Mrs. Elise B. Alder Miss Sarah M. McLelland Mrs. Amy Whipple Evans Mrs. Inez K. Allen Mrs. Annie Wells Cannon Mrs. Ethel Reynolds Smith Mrs. Ida P. Beal Mrs. Jessie B. Knight Mrs. Rosannah C. Irvine Mrs. Kate M. Barker Mrs. Lalene H. Hart Miss Alice Louise Reynolds Mrs. Marcia K. Howells Mrs. Lizzie Thomas Edwards, Music Director
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
Editor - - - - - - - - Alice Louise Reynolds Manager - - - - - - - - Louise Y. Robison Assistant Manager - Amy Brown Lyman
Room 20, Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah
Magazine entered as secondclass matter at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah
VOL. XVII JANUARY, 1930 No. 1
EDITORIAL
The Bright New Year
With the dawning of the New Year 1930, every Latter-day Saint will be transported in spirit, for this dawning means the review of a century of achievement in Church and in world progress. It marks the passing of the greatest century that this world has ever known. The ushering in of the new year will rivet the thought of Latter-day Saints on April 6, 1830, when six persons were organized into the Church, which has been the pride, the hope, of thousands through the years that have gone.
We are living in a day of unprecedented progress, in business; nevertheless business has a larger concern for human welfare than it has ever had before in history. Men who have amassed fortunes seem anxious that their accumulations of wealth shall be used in some definite way for human betterment. One may elect to contribute money for the banishment of disease not yet conquered; another, for alleviation of human misery where there is much poverty; others have their hearts set on the abolition of crime; while still others feel it incumbent upon them to do everything in their power to destroy war. All these things are heralds of a better day; consequently the close of this first century in the history of the Church is but the dawning of another brighter day. A hundred years have virtually given to us a new heaven and a new earth; yet the new century that bursts into being will have for us other and better things. Just now the peace dove hovers near. May the new year give added strength to a movement so worthy.
At the head of our greatest governments are two men who have literally come up through the toils to the first place. They are filled with the milk of human kindness, anxious to better the conditions of humanity. President Hoover's work for children, has behind it a force for regeneration that cannot be measured, while Premier Ramsey Macdonald's sympathetic nature is seeking to sound the depths of British suffering to the end of its amelioration; and these two great historical figures are combining for the abolition of war.
The Eliza Roxey Snow Poem Contest
We are particularly happy to report that sixty-nine poems were entered for the 1929 poetry contest—an increase of nineteen poems over last year. Mrs. Elsie E. Barrett, well known throughout the State for her painting and sketching, is the winner of the first prize. She is at present living in Los Angeles, California. The second prize is awarded to Mrs. Linnie Fisher Robinson of Salt Lake City. Honorable mention is given to Merling D. Clyde of Price, Utah; Josephine M. Duncan of Springville, Utah; and Miranda Walton of Woodruff, Utah.
In the contest one feature especially pleasing to the Board is the fact that the winners have come from varied localities in the Church. Last year the winner of the first prize was from Colorado; the winner of the second prize, from California. One year the second prize was won by a lady living in Longview, Washington. Twice honorable mention has gone to persons living on the other side of the Atlantic, and once to Canada.
The judges for the 1929 contest were Mrs. Jennie B. Knight of the General Board, Dr. Sherman B. Neff, head of the English Department of the University of Utah, and Miss Kate Thomas, a well known writer of the State.
The Magazine is pleased once again to congratulate the winners in the Eliza R. Snow Poetry Contest.
President Louise Y. Robison Speaks at General Conference
Much appreciated by the women of the Church was an innovation that occurred at the recent general conference in the Salt Lake Tabernacle, October 4-6, 1929. President Grant called to the stand President Louise Y. Robison of the Relief Society, President Ruth May Fox of the Young Ladies' Mutual Improvement Association, and President May Anderson of the Primary Association. They were each invited to occupy a few moments of the time. This is the first time in the history of the Church that the heads of these three important organizations affecting so vitally the work of women and children in the Church, have been called to speak in a general conference. Sister Robison was first, and, as a result, had the least time to adjust to a situation so wholly new. Yet she was equal to the occasion. Her voice carried through the vast auditorium, and her testimony was heard, not only by the thousands in the audience before her, but by the tens of thousands of radio listeners all over the land. This innovation, due largely to the fact that amplifiers and other mechanical devices convey a voice of ordinary power long distances, is but another of the blessings we receive from the scientific age in which we live. In the recognition given to our President as the representative of the great Relief Society, we experience a feeling of rejoicing and congratulation. We trust that the future holds more such occasions for the women of our Church who carry such significant responsibility.
General Board of Relief Society Expresses Appreciation to Organist
Edna Coray, for twenty-three years organist for the General Board of the Relief Society, has recently severed her connection with the organization. Her marriage made the resignation imperative, as she has moved out of the State. Mrs. Edna Coray Dyer has rendered very efficient and very exceptional service. Mrs. Lizzie Thomas Edward, director of the choir, states that she is one of the best all-round musicians in this part of the country, talented and trustworthy. "If I asked," says Mrs. Edward, "that a key be lowered or raised for any selection, she could do it on the instant." To talent she added loyalty and dependability, so that the director of the choir knew that she would always be on hand when called for, and she always was on hand. The Relief Society, its officers and members, take this opportunity of expressing their grateful appreciation to Mrs. Dyer for her efficient and faithful services.
We trust that in every respect new life, praying that God will add abundant blessings,
Notes from the Field
Annual Dues: With the spirit of hearty cooperation, so characteristic of the stakes, the suggestions of the General Board in reference to the Annual Dues were very generally carried into effect. There have been, during the past year, many changes in the stake organizations, and a number of questions in relation to the payment of annual dues have come into the office. It is therefore deemed advisable to quote a few instructions that are necessary for this piece of work.
Dues in the Relief Society consist of fifty cents a year— twenty-five cents of which is forwarded to the General Board, to be used for the general maintenance of the Relief Society; the other twenty-five cents is retained in the stake organization to be used for its maintenance. The annual membership dues should be paid in advance in January of each year. For example, the dues for 1930 should be paid in January, 1930. The dues should be sent to the stake secretary not later than February 28. The stake secretary should then forward the portion due to the General Board to the General Secretary by March 31, retaining the remainder for stake purposes.
Where members are enrolled in the Relief Society for the first time, it is expected that they pay their membership dues for the year in which they were admitted; however, when new members enter the organization after September 30, the dues paid at this time should be considered as covering the remainder of the year and the following year.
For the convenience of the secretary in checking the payment of dues, a column has been provided on the right-hand side of the roll for this purpose.
REORGANIZATIONS
Since the October conference, reports of reorganizations in some of the stakes, also changes in the personnel of the officers, have reached the office.
Bannock Stake: Mrs. Minnie L. Sorensen was released, after years of faithful service. Mrs. Cora Cooper was called to take Mrs. Sorensen's place as president, with Mrs. Pond and Mrs. Lydia Hilten as counselors. It has always been a matter of congratulation to Bannock stake to consider the fine leadership shown in Relief Society work. Sister Sorensen was fully alive to the problems before her, her term as president showing great development and reflecting real credit upon the stake. The good wishes of the General Board and all the people of the stake accompany Mrs. Sorensen in her retirement; and the hearty cooperation and support that have been characteristic of her administration we are sure will come to Mrs. Cooper and her corps of officers.
Liberty Stake: In the calling of Mrs. Hazel H. Greenwood to the General Board of Relief Society, the problem of new leadership was suggested for Liberty stake, and Mrs. Ida S. Rees, who for many years has filled the position as first counselor, was called to succeed Mrs. Greenwood. Mrs. Rees has chosen Mrs. Ruby W. Henderson, first counselor; Mrs. Retta S. Neff, second counselor; and Mrs. Edith R. Christensen has been retained as secretary-treasurer. The stake is fortunate in the choice of able and capable leaders, and the congratulations and best wishes of the General Board and the people generally go to Mrs. Rees and to the stake.
Lost River Stake: The removal of Mrs. Mary E. Black from her home in the Lost River stake to Logan, has been the occasion for a change. Mrs. Black is a woman of very great ability and a real Relief Society leader. The stake, however, is to be congratulated upon the new officers, who have been chosen: for president, Mrs. Elizabeth Hoggan; first counselor, Mrs. Mary A. Jeppesen; second counselor, Mrs. Veda J. Waddoups; secretary-treasurer, Mrs. Josephine Toombs (retained). In assuming their duties as officers these sisters have the very best wishes of the General Board and of the Relief Society.
Pioneer Stake: The last reorganization to be fully reported was from Pioneer stake, Mrs. Lettie T. Cannon being released, and the following executive officers sustained: Mrs. Edna T. Matson, president; Mrs. Lanora S. Hyde, first counselor; Mrs. Florence Burton, second counselor; Mrs. Amelia Bissell, secretary-treasurer. Sister Cannon and her able associates have left a record of undoubted achievements. The love and best wishes of the General Board and the people of their stake are extended to them. The Pioneer stake Relief Society is to be congratulated upon its new leaders, and we are sure the same fine cooperation and hearty support will be given them by the people.
Guide Lessons for March
LESSON I
Theology and Testimony (First Week in March)
BOOK OF MORMON
Lesson 6. A Nephite Colony
In this lesson, which covers the matter between pages 181 and 212 of the Book of Mormon, we have a continuity which we have not had in any of the lessons thus far studied. It is mainly narrative—the story of one of the Nephite colonies. But in order to understand the whole situation, it is necessary to know certain historical facts in connection with Nephite migrations.
1. Zarahemla and the Land of Nephi. As has been hinted already once or twice, it is not very material just where the places mentioned in the Book of Mormon were in the absolute sense. About all we can now hope to do is to locate these places with respect to one another. To be sure, it would be helpful if we could put our finger on our present map of the Americas and say with confidence, "Zarahemla was here" and "The Land of Nephi was there." But as we cannot do that, we must do the next best thing, which is to locate the Book of Mormon places relatively.
The Land of Zarahemla is where we find King Mosiah, father of King Benjamin, about one and a quarter centuries before Christ. Yet King Mosiah was born in the Land of Nephi. How does all this come about?
On the death of Lehi, Laman became murderous in his purpose to rule, and he embittered his followers toward Nephi and Nephi's friends. So Nephi, warned of God, took all his friends and their belongings into the wilderness, where they might live in comparative peace and safety. Doubtless they did not go any great distance away from their first home. That is why their enemies found them presently, and renewed their disturbance. And so Nephi moved again. These removals were rather numerous, we are led to believe, and continued long after Nephi's death—continued, in fact, as long as his people were unable to resist the encroachments of the Lamanites. They happened, however, these removals, within what is very generally termed in the Record, the Land of Nephi, named after their first great leader.
Within this territory, probably the last removal before Mosiah I's time, was a smaller district called by the same name, the Land of Nephi, but sometimes also called Lehi-Nephi. It was here that Mosiah I lived and reigned in his earlier years. As often occurred among the Nephites, the people were divided as to their disposition and works. Some were what the Book of Mormon calls "wicked," and others were "righteous." Besides, the Lamanites were becoming more and more troublesome. And so the Lord instructed Mosiah to take all those who would go with him out into the "wilderness", and He would lead them to a place of safety. This Mosiah did. We are not informed how many remained behind nor what became of them. But this fact we must not lose sight of—that it was the Land of Nephi or Lehi-Nephi which Mosiah I and his people abandoned.
Now the place to which the Lord guided these emigrants was called the Land of Zarahemla. But Zarahemla, too, had a larger and a smaller territory called by the same name, with a city of the same name, situated in the heart of the smaller district. And it had a numerous population, under the rule of a man named Zarahemla. These people were also Israelites, probably of the tribe of Judah, who had come to America under divine guidance not a great while after the Lehites landed in America. Having come here without records of any kind, their religious habits had degenerated to a point where they no longer believed in God, and their language had become so corrupted that Mosiah's people could not understand them. All this had taken place in about four hundred years. The two people became one, with the ruler of the superior as head of the government. And here we come to the lesson of today.
2. The Zeniff Colony. As time went on, those who had left relatives and friends in the old home, naturally wanted to know what had become of them. You know how it would be. For religion often divides husbands and wives, sweethearts and lovers, parents and children, brothers and sisters. It is assuredly a two-edged sword, as we are told in the Good Book. Well, one of these anxious ones was a man named Zeniff:
Zeniff says of himself, as you will read in the Record, that he was "taught in all the language of the Nephites," that he had "a knowledge of the Land of Nephi", and that he was by profession a spy for the Nephite army in their encounters with the Lamanites. In this business of spying out the enemy's secrets—and this is an interesting point—he had learned that the Lamanites were not such a bad lot after all. And so he was for entering into a treaty with them and teaching them the ways of peace and civilization through ideas rather than the sword. A very good suggestion, as we think today. But the ruler—by which term it is presumed he meant the head of the army—would have none of it. Being "an austere and blood-thirsty man," we are told, he was not only against the idea, but against the man who suggested the idea. And so Zeniff had to be rescued by his fellow soldiers. He was avenged, however—if he needed vengeance—by the great slaughter of Nephite forces in their encounters with the Lamanites, for the "greatest number of our army was destroyed", and the survivors went home to tell the tale to the widows and orphans. A wonderful lot of romance, philosophy, adventure, emotion, what not is packed away in those twenty-five lines about Zeniff before his great adventure to the southland.
3. This Picture and That. The Nephite Record abounds in contrasts—contrast of character, of ideas, of setting, of emotions, of everything in fact. One of the most illuminating of these is the character of King Benjamin set beside that of King Noah.
Noah had the usual kingly impression that he was of better clay than his subjects; Benjamin, that he had come from the same mold as those he ruled. Accordingly, while Benjamin earned his own living by hard work and did only what he thought was for the best good of his people, Noah taxed his subjects heavily in order that he might live sumptuously in "spacious buildings," ruling from a costly throne and surrounded by a group of corrupt, hypocritical sycophants. Benjamin saw to it that his home was a source of pleasure and benefit to his children; Noah had "wives and concubines," and encouraged a life of harlotry in his priests. The difference lay in their conflicting root qualities. The ideal of Noah, if it can be termed an ideal, was selfishness; that of Benjamin was service. And see how they ended—the one in a peaceful bed, surrounded by a nation of weeping friends; the other in bundles of faggots, set on fire by a host of infuriated enemies.
4. Community of the Spirit. One of the singular things about the Nephite prophets is that they seem to have known as much as, and some of them more than, we do about our Savior. And yet they lived, most of them, hundreds of years before his advent. This is especially true of King Benjamin, whose life we studied in the last lesson, and of Abinadi, of whom we read in this lesson. And the delightful thing about it all is the great clearness of the views expressed. Here are some of the high water marks in the teachings of Abinadi-
(a) His views of Christ. Opinion is divided today among Christians as to whether Jesus was divine or not. Indeed it is coming to be more and more the sentiment of people that He was not. And this in the face of a belief in the New Testament. But there can be no two opinions on the subject with those who accept the Book of Mormon. "God himself," Abinadi says, "shall come down among the children of men, and shall redeem his people. And because He dwelleth in the flesh, he shall be called the Son of God." And this agrees with what Benjamin said before him, that "the Lord Omnipotent...... Who is from all eternity, shall come down from heaven among the children of men, and shall dwell in a tabernacle of clay...... And He shall be called Jesus Christ, the Son of God, the Father of heaven and earth, the Creator of all things."
(b) His views of the law of Moses. These are clarity itself compared with what we find in the Old Testament, and are on a par with the utterances in the New Testament on the subject. "It is expedient," he says to Noah's priests, "that ye should keep the law of Moses as yet, but the time shall come when it shall no more be expedient to keep the law of Moses." This "strict law," he further explains, was given to the Children of Israel because "they were a stiff-necked people." And he calls it "a law of performances and ordinances," a law to keep them in remembrance of the Lord. It was a type, a shadow of things to come.
(c) His Views on Redemption. All men are "carnal, sensual, devilish," subjecting themselves to the devil, although they know good from evil. This has come about through the "fall" of our first parents. Now, unless something occurred to redeem them from the consequences of this "fall," all mankind would be lost "endlessly." But God has provided a means of redemption through Christ's death and resurrection. It is effective, however, only where man repents and mends his ways; for if he "persists in his own carnal nature," he is as if "there was no redemption made." Christ breaks the bands of death, robbing the grave of its victory. And so "there is a resurrection" from the dead, and "this mortal shall put on immortality, and this corruption shall put on incorruption." It is all as clear in the mind of Abinadi as if he were speaking of the events after they had taken place. This is the true fellowship of the Spirit, the communion of souls that have drunk of the same all-pervading influence, though separated by hundreds of years in time. Christ is eternally the same, whether He speaks to Moriancumr on the mount, to King Benjamin through an angel, to the poetic intelligence of Isaiah, to a humble farm-boy in the nineteenth century, looking for light and wisdom —they are all one in spirit and purpose and heart.
Questions
1. Tell how the Nephites came to Zarahemla. Who was their leader? Whom did they find there? What was their condition after four hundred years?
2. Contrast King Benjamin and King Noah. Who was Zeniff?
3. Describe the conditions of Zeniff's colony under Zeniff and under Noah. How do you account for the difference?
4. Who was Abinadi? What kind of man would you think him to be from what he says and does? Was his fine exposition of doctrine wasted on the priests? Explain.
5. Who was Alma? Describe his character from the things he does in the text.
6. Who was Ammon? Limhi? Gideon?
LESSON II
Work and Business
TEACHERS' TOPIC FOR MARCH
(This topic is to be given at the special teachers' meeting the first week in March)
COURAGE
I. Courage enables us to encounter danger and difficulties fearlessly. It makes us stronger, braver, and more resolute. "Be of good courage, and he shall strengthen your heart, all ye that hope in the Lord."—Psalms 31:24.
II. Moral courage or the courage of one's convictions. A. Joseph Smith the Prophet Inception of Relief Society movement. B. The L. D. S. Missionaries. C. Pioneers. D. Historical examples among women.
1. Susan B. Anthony and Elizabeth Cady Stanton, in the face of ridicule, worked for women's suffrage.
2. Harriet Beecher Stowe worked for the abolition of slavery.
3. Florence Nightingale, first as well as one of the greatest of war nurses, devoted her life to the care of the sick.
III. Physical Courage—the type displayed by the soldier. A. David, the shepherd lad who slew the great Goliath. B. Washington at Valley Forge. C. Examples from the World War.
IV. Everyday Courage. A. Do daily tasks cheerfully. B. Make
brave decisions. C. Go on on with our work, even though unjust things are said of us. D. Seize opportunities with eagerness and zeal. "If I want to be a happy, useful citizen, I must be brave—This means I must be brave enough and strong 36 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE enough to control what I think and what I say and what I do."'—Colliers. "Be strong! We are not here to play, to dream, to drift; We have hard work to do and loads to lift; Shun not the struggle—face it Tis God's Gift.""—M. D. Babcock. V. Courage to observe Church standards. A. Is of vital importance in Relief Society work. B. Is a positive force in character building. Two Artists Two Artists stood at the dawn of day Where the way of life before them lay; Each felt the urge that is heaven lent To whom the God of Arts hath sent. Said the first, "I will paint for the world to see A masterpiece of artistry; At my touch, all men and the crowned king Will hold my name, and my praise will sing!" So he caught its gleam from the golden cloud, And the ocean's blue, and the morn-mist's shroud; Then with master stroke he flung them high— A scene of grandeur beneath the sky. The crowds came fast with praises free; The Artists gazed at his artistry— But when he viewed what his hand had wrought, *Twas not the thing himself had sought. The second, too, would win high place, An honored name in the world's great race; He, too, would work; his highest goal To put on his canvas a bit of soul. He wrought all day with patient skill. He wrought all day with his brush, until A little child with tear-filled eye And quivering lips came slowly by. Then the Artist turned from his mastery, For his soul was filled with sympathy; And then, with tender touch and mild, He drew a sketch for the little child. Till the baby smiled and raised his eyes In all of a baby's glad surprise. The Artist, thrilled with loves increase, Knew not—that the sketch was his masterpiece.. —Alice Morrill. GUIDE LESSONS FOR MARCH 37 LESSON III. Literature (Third Week in March) AUTOBIOGRAPTHY OF JOAQUIN MILLER 24 PT HS The Autobiography of Cincinnatus Hiner (sometimes written Heine) "Joaquin" Miller has been published in various places and will probably be available in almost any library in the country. Volume one of Joaquin Miller's Poems, published in 1917 by the Harr Wagner Publishing Company of San Francisco, is a convenient one to use, if available. Joaquin Miller was a strange being, so strange that even Western people who should know him best scarcely know him at all. This is due partly to his reported eccentricities and partly to the fact that it has been popular among critics either to distort the peculiarities or else to ignore him entirely. Now that he has joined the immortals, perhaps a calmer, saner attitude will be taken toward him and his work. His autobiography is a naive statement of his experiences. It is not long and gives no very adequate picture of him; but with his poems, which he says are foot-notes to his life, it does round into something like a complete likeness. His habit of calling his father papa throughout the autobiography adds to the spirit of simplicity, causing the reader to wonder if the poet ever did grow into manhood. That he felt the American attitude toward him and his works to be unfair is indicated early in his notes. He says, "In dedicating this final edition of my poems to the memory of my parents, please let me introduce them to you, and, incidentally, introduce myself; for it really seems to me that from the day I was suddenly discovered and pointed out in London I have been an entire stranger in my own land—the land I have loved, lived for, battled for from the first. As for that red-shirted and hairy man bearing my name abroad and "standing before kings", I never saw him, never heard of him until on returning to my own country I found that this unpleasant and entirely impossible figure ever attended or even overshadowed my most earnest work. I desire that my lines shall be read and remembered for the merit which the British seem to have discovered in them, and quite apart from that creation of the American imagination, the stalwart, red-shirted and six-shootered hairy man of the Sierra Nevada mountains. Hence this sketch of my gentle and pious parents, involving the story of my stormy youth." The poet's story might well be a page from the journal of 38 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE some good Latter-day Saint, so similar were his experiences to those of many of our own ancestors. "My cradle," he says, "was a covered wagon pointed west. I was born in a covered wagon, I am told, at or about the time it crossed the line dividing Indiana and Ohio, wherein my mother was born." The wagon housing this pious family of Quakers continued pointing west at intervals until the boy at last found himself on the shores of the "Sundown Seas." The father, a gentleman, according to his son, never in his life fired a gun. In fact, he had a great horror for fire arms and found it unnecessary to resort to their use in any of his pioneer experiences. Being a school master, the father of Joaquin Miller spent much of the time on Sundays and in the evenings reading to his little flock. He was devout in the matter of prayers and blessings on the food and reared his children to be the same. As in so many pioneer households, the mother seemed to be the better manager of the two. Trundle beds, homemade clothing, scant rations, heart breaks, ecstacies, troop through the pages of this simple narrative just as they do through the majority of nur own pioneer literature, for the Millers were pioneers in the finest sense of the term. Bits like this make all of us kin: "A few days before this little rebellion by the baby boy in his first pantaloons," (the boy refused longer to sleep in the cradle) "an honest man and a pretty young girl, really the prettiest woman I had ever seen except my mother, came to papa to be married, and, as usual, where money was so scarce, brought two coon skins. And they were very fine skins, killed in the heart of winter and dressed to perfection......... "Mother had claimed these two beautiful skins for some special purpose of her own and put them away under her pillow, where she always kept the money when there was any money, and she now brought out the beautiful skins, which Jimmy had also admired very much and she put them carefully and tenderly in the cradle, smoothing them down with her hands and talking gently baby talk to Jimmy........ No cradle for Jimmy Miller. So mother took the coon skins out, for a time at least, and the cradle was put back in the smoke house. "Soon after, a good old Southern woman came from the Billy Fields settlement and sent us little folks away to Billy Fields and his house full of girls. And when the old woman went away we were all back home and very, very happy. "But let me tell you the end of this chapter in verse. For there are things that are sacred from severe prose and a song suits better the theme. This is from Harper's Magazine: GUIDE LESSONS FOR MARCH 39 WHEN LITTLE SISTER CAME "We dwelt in the woods of the Tippecanoe, In a lone, lost cabin, with never a view Of the full day's sun for a whole year through. With strange half hints through the russet corn We three were hurried one night. Next morn There was frost on the trees, and a sprinkle of snow And tracks on the ground. We burst through the door And a girl baby cried—and then we were four. "We were not sturdy, and we were not wise, In the things of the world, and the ways men dare; A pale-browed mother with a prophet's eyes A father that dreamed and iooked any where. Three brothers—wild blossoms, tall fashioned as men And we mingled with none, but we lived as when The pair first lived, ere they knew the fall; And loving all things we believed in all." Speaking of their march farther west, the poet says: "The next camp was in South Pass, so named by Fremont, who had set up a cairn of stones here: the summit of the Rocky Mountains. ~The flying snow fell in our faces as we looked away to the west. The waters were flowing toward the setting sun. It seemed to us all, weary as we were, the rest of the way must be down hill to the vast ocean. Our camp was by the Pacific Springs. We were now drinking of the waters that flowed to the mighty ocean What exultation! What glory and achievement!" Sounds like a paragraph from a Latter-day Saint's note book. Again: "At Salt Lake, a beautiful city and scene of: honest industry, we rested long, sold some worn-out cattle, the carriage and the two horses; keeping one for mother and the baby. We three little fellows had learned to walk well; and walk we did now all the time....." Later on he says, making a belated apology, but one that from its apparent sincerity ought to be accepted fully: 'life was monctonous here.'—speaking of a sojourn in California—''for we had to live alone in our cabin because of the intolerable toughness and roughness of the men here at The Forks, who made their focus of action and distraction in the Howling Wilderness saloon. Here I laid the scene of "The Danites," my famous play, but have always been sorry I printed it, as it is unfair to the Mormons and Chinese." After being spared by the Indians because they called him "Los bobo," the fool, he had a long struggle to regain his health. - When strong enough," he says, "I went home, went to college some, studied law at home some; but ever and ever the lure of the mountains called and called, and I could not keep my mind on 40 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE my books. But I could keep my mind on the perils I had passed. I could write of them, and I did write of them, almost every day. The Tale of the Tall Alcalde, Oregonian, Californian, With Walker in Nicaragua—I had lived all these and more; and they were now a part of my existence. If you would care to read further of my life, making allowance for poetic license, you will find these literally true." Again he says: "My first lines, and in truth, all my lines, as a rule, were descriptive stories of the lands I knew, so that my poems are literally my autobiography." Songs of the Sierra was his first book. It was published at his own expense in London, where it met with considerable favor. Life Among the Modocs was one of his most profitable publications. He called it a veritable goid mine. He concludes his autobiography with paragraphs of summation, among them these: "The little story of our pilgrimage is simply that of thousands and hundreds of thousands who peopled the ultimate West. We were, perhaps, a little more reliant on or a little more dependent on Providence, a little more prayerful than the average, perhaps; for while others carried guns to protect them, the head of our little party never laid hand to a gun, never fired a shot in all his Jong life. All the vast multitude as in the exodus of old, in quest of the Promised Land, was, as a rule, religious, and buried their dead with hymns and prayers, all along that dreary half year's journey on which no coward ever ventured, and where the weak fel! By the wayside, leaving a natural selection of good and great people, both in soul and body." That he hoped he was doing something worthy and fine in his poems is indicated near the close of his autobiography, where he also indicates that he believes the great singers of those great times are yet to come. "But bear in mind," he says, "we are only plowing, sowing now, making ready for the reaper, the happy harvester of song, who will come to his own, and all in good time, when of today the workers and builders shall not be forgotten. Only let us build true, level, square, and deserve to be remembered." "Of course both warp and woof of every real poem, beyond a. Sonnet's length, must be shot through and through with threads of gold and silver, else it is at best but a guide book; and I would like to be remembered by those of the years to be as a. Pioneer who not only blazed the path but also loved the flowers under foot and the peaks that companion with the stars. "My poems may be no better nor much worse than the poems of Virgil, Homer, Byron; but are they not new, unique? If not, then have my work and wanderings been in vain and my life labors, however delightful they have been in the doing, must be set down as a failure; for I have certainly had a golden harvest GUIDE LESSONS FOR MARCH 41 vefield and, with a few hard exceptions, the most glorious opportunity in all the world." Joaquin Miller's autobiography is not in any sense great. It consists merely of a few elementary notes telling of his experiences, but taken with his poems it does, as has been said, give the reader some idea of this early Western singer who was not so very original and who was not so very profound, but who deserves to be remembered at least by Westerners, among whom he is really little known, for his sincerity at least. A few of his poems will probably live always, either for the picture they draw of an era, such as "Kit Carson's Ride," or for the moral value they possess, such as "Columbus" and "The Fortunate Isles." THE FORTUNATE ISLES You sail and you seek for the Fortunate Isles, The old Greek Isles of the yellow bird's song Then steer straight on through the watery miles, Straight on, straight on, and you can't go wrong. Nay not to the left, nay not to the right, But on, straight on, and the isles are in sight, The old Greek Isles where yellow birds sing And life lies girt with a golden ring. These Fortunate Isles they are not so far, They lie within reach of the lowliest door; You can see them gleam by the twilight star; You can hear them sing by the moon's white shore— Nay, never look back! Those leveled grave stones They were landing steps; they were steps unto thrones Of glory of souls that have gone before, And have set white feet on the fortunate shore. And what are the names of the Fortunate Isles? Why, Duty and Love and a large Content. Lo, these are the Isles of the watery miles, That God let down from the firmament. Aye! Duty and Love and a true man's trust; Your forehead to God though your feet in the dust. Aye! Duty to man, and to God meanwhiles, And these, O Friends, are the Fortunate Isles. —From Later Lines Preferred by London. THE BRAVEST BATTLE From Lines That Mother Liked The bravest battle that ever was founght; Shall I tell you where and when? On the maps of the world you will find it not: It was fought by the mothers of men. 42 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Nay, not with cannon or battle shot, With sword or braver pen; Nay, not with the eloquent word or thought, From mouths of wonderful men. But deep in a woman's walled-up heart— Of woman that would not yield, But patiently, silently bore her part— Lo! There is the battle field. No marshalling troop, no bivouac song; No banners to gleam and wave; And, oh; these battles they last so long— From babyhood to the grave! Yet, faithful and still as a bridge of stars, She fights in her walled-up town— Fights on and on in the endless wars, Then silent, unseen—goes down. THE VOICE OF THE DOVE From Lines That Papa Liked Come listen, O Love, to the voice of the dove, Come, harken and hear him say, "There are many Tomorrows, my Love, my Love, There is only one Today." And all day long you can hear him say This day in purple is rolled, And the baby stars of the milky way They are cradled in cradles of gold. Now what is thy secret, serene gray dove Of singing so sweetly alway? "There are many tomorrows, my Love, my Love, There is only one Today." IN MEN WHOM MEN CONDEMN In men whom men condemn as ill I find so much of goodness still, In men whom men pronounce divine I find so much of'sin and blot, I hesitate to draw a line Between the two, where God has not. GUIDE LESSONS FOR MARCH 43 LIFE OF JOAQUIN MILLER Cincinnatus Hiner Miller was born in a covered wagon in the Wabash District, Indiana, November 10, 1841. His father, Hulings Miller, a schhool teacher of considerable learning, removed to Oregon when Joaquin was 9: Young Miller was sent to school but ran away to California, where he spent about two years in the mines, during which time he suffered many hardships. He is said to have been a filibuster with Walker, and Indian sachem and Spanish vaguero. He returned with $100, gave it to his father, and entered school. He then went to Columbia College, where he was graduated in 1858, valedictorian of his class. He read and studied law and was admitted to the bar in 1860. In the spring of 1861 he went to the gold mines of Idaho, where he is said to have given that territory the nick name which it still bears—'"Gem of the Mountains." There he turned express messenger. He returned in 1863 to Oregon and edited a paper called "The Democratic Register" at Eugene, Oregon; but the paper was soon suppressed for alleged treasonable utterances. He returned to the practice of law in 1864 at Canon City, Oregon, and was soon made judge of Grant County, a position which he held four years. He collected his poems under the title Songs of the Sierras, and being unable to get them published here went with them to London, England, where he published them at his own expense. To this volume he signed the name, "Joaquin" Miller, one he had assumed from having written a defense of the Mexican brigand, Joaquin Murietta. He then returned to America but again visited England in 1873, where he published Songs of the Sunland and One Fair: Woman. He returned to New York, but later settled at Washington, D. C. Where he wrote for various publications. In 1887 he returned to California and built him a home near San Francisco Bay. Tourists frequently visit it now as they did before his! Death. Many of the world's greatest literary lights called on the Poet of the Sierras there. He died April 17, 1913. He was a great lover of the Indians. He says somewhere: "All that I am or ever hope to be, I owe to them—I owe no white man anything at all. The Indians are my true and warm friends." Hamlin Garland's tribute upon Miller's death: '"Nevertheless, when all blue penciling has been finished, when all allowances are made, I think posterity will agree with old Walt (Walt Whitman), who said of him in substance, 'I am inclined to set Joaquin 44 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Miller at the head of the whole list (of Western poets) because of his brave attempt at putting into verse the epic scenes and characters of our border-land.' " Articles of interest: "Passing of Tica Miller", Current Opinion, Vol 54, pages 318-19, April, 1913; "Poet of the Sierras', by Hamlin Garland, Sunset "Magazine, Vol. 30, pages 765-70, June, 1913; "Poet of the Sierras", by Elbert Hubbard, Hearst's Magazine, Vol. 23, pages 662-3, April 1913. "Close Up of the Poet", Literary Digest, Vol. 87, pages 82-87, November 14, 1925. Questions and Problems 1. Have a good reader read "Kit Carson's Ride". Comment on the introduction to the poem. Where was that introduction probably written? 2. Read "Columbus." What is there about the poem that inspires you?: 3. What experiences did Miller have in common with our early pioneers? 4, Why does he say his poems are foot ieee to his life? 5. If any one in the class has ever met Joaquin Miller or has ever visited his home above Oakland, she might tell of the incident. 6. It would be well to have members of the class read his poems and bring to class bits that would add to the autobigraphy. A Prayer Let me live long enough, O Lord, To learn to be Tolerant. Let me see Another's fault And not be quick To judge. Help me to live well enough, O Lord, That I may ne'er Feel shame. Give me strength To see and Conquer all my own Shortcomings. —Adeline J. Haws, GUIDE LESSONS FOR MARCH 45 LESSON IV Social Service (Fourth Week in March) THE FIELD OF SOCIAL WORK Lesson 3. Physical and Mental Diseases In the last lesson we discussed the extent and the causes of poverty. We considered also the principles of care for dependent families, dependent adults, and dependent children. One of the major causes of dependency, we saw, is physical or mental disease. We shall devote this lesson to a consideration 'of these specific causes, noting the ways in which modern social work and workers deal with the problem. A. Physical Diseases: Their Nature and Extent The precise amount of disease and ill-health is, of course, impossible to determine. We are therefore forced to rely upon estimates. One index, however, is the vearly number of persons tieated in hospitals and disnensaries. The U. S. Census Bureau reports that in the year 1922, 4.700 hospitals and sanatoriums in the United States treated over 5,000,000 patients for an aggregate of 81,500,000 days. Another 576,000 persons were treated in institutions for the mentally handicapped. These figures, of course, do not include the out-patients at dispensaries and the private patients treated in their homes or at the doctor's office. In their book Social Pathology, Queen and Mann quote from the Committee on Waste in Industry, of the Federated American Engineering Societies, to the effect that: * * * each of the 42,000 persons gainfully employed in the United States loses on an average more than 8 davs a year from illness, a total of 350.000 working days. Perhaps 3 per cent of the wage earners (1,250,000) have tuberculosis. Influenza and pneumonia in non-epidemic vears take ahont 35.000 lives in the working aces and account for at least 350.0000 cases of sickness. Typhoid fever fills abovt 150,000 beds annually and takes 15,000 lives. Malaria is responsible for much "sub-standard" health and probably affects 1.500.000 people each vear. Perhans J,500,000 workers are infected with venereal diseases. Six million have organic diseases _ of various sorts. Twenty-five million have defective vision requiring correction. Another way to estimate the nature and extent of vhvsical morbidity is to consider the things that neonle die of. The latest statistics are those furnished by the U. S. Census Bureau in 1927. From which the following figures are taken; lCrowell, 1925 (p. 451) 46 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Death-Rates per 100,000 Estimated Population in the U. S. Registration Area, 1925 A. The Ten Chief Causes of Death Diseases of the heart 176.9 Cancer and other malignant tumors...- 92.6 Tuberculosis (all forms) 86.6 Cerebral hemorrhage -_ 83.7 Accidental or undefined 200...78.3 Broncho-pneumonia A I D 38.6 Diarrhea and enteritis (under 2 years of age) 00.002... 31.5 Dai) Kye enc 29.6 Arterios Sclerosis. 20.1 Diabetes mellitus 16.9 B. Death-Rates by Divisions All causes (exclusive of still-births) 20... ,182.3 I. Epidemic, endemic and infections diseases............ 169.1 II. General diseases not included in I iu. 138.9 III. Diseases of the nervous system and organs of special sense 120.1 IV. Diseases of the circulatory system 211.0 V. Diseases of the respiratory system 108.6 VI. Diseases of the digestive system 101.2 VII. Non-venereal diseases of the genito-urinary system and annexa 1.8 VIII. The puerperal state 14.9 IX. Diseases of the skin and cellular tissue-................... 3.2 . G Diseases of bones and organs of locomotion................ 1.3 XI. Malformations.. 13.8 XII. Early infancy 60.1 XIII. Old age 12.0 XIV. External causes ' 99.1 The relationship between social work and physical disease is well illustrated in the following facts:? During the six months ending March 31, 1923, the New York Association for Improving the Condition of the Poor cared for 3,875 families, in which it found 5,613 separate important health problems. Five hundred and thirty-nine families showed tuberculosis, 299 showed nervous or mental disease or mental deficiency. 268 showed venereal disease, 236 showed rickets, 163 showed cardiac problems. Facts of a similar nature come from the United Charities of Chicago, where it is reported for 1921-22:% * * * that 2,125 families out of 5,400 receiving "major services" presented important health problems. For the six years ending in 1922, 12,500 out of 38,000 such families presented cases of acute illness. B. The Treatment of Physical Disease The scope and variety of public and private effort for the relief and prevention of physical i'Iness and distress is, in many ways, the crowning achievement of Western civilization, Merely Queen and Mann. Op, cit. 457. GUIDE LESSONS FOR MARCH 47 to list the main divisions and types of these efforts, would take more space than is here available. Hospitals, sanatoria, clinics, dispensaries, infant-welfare stations, with their efficient staffs of physicians, surgeons, laboratory technicians, pathologists, nurses, etc., are already quite well-known to the public. The newer services of the medical social workers, the public health nurse, the tuberculosis association teacher, and the heart association worker are, however, not so well understood. These latter services constitute a sort of auxiliary to the field of medicine; they are among the more modern forms of social assistance made necessary in the active control of disease and poverty. The social nature of much disease and its responsiveness to educational control is well illustrated in the case of tuberculosis which two decades ago was the chief cause of death. Due largely to the ingenious and persistent educational efforts of the National Tuberculosis Association, the "white plague" has become—in the United States at least—much less devastating and now occupies only third place among the chief causes of death.* And this in spite of the fact that there is still no specific remedy for tuberculosis. An interesting example of the tremendous power of private philanthropy in the control of disease is the work of the Rockefeller Foundation,—the largest philanthropic enterprise of its sort in the world. During the year 1928, for example, under the able leadership of its president, Dr. George E. Vincent, the Foundation spent $21,690,738 in the world-wide control of hookworm, malaria, yellow fever, etc. Most of this vast sum was spent in foreign countries in the form of subsidies to medical schools, for research, for nursing education. Contributions were also made to the budgets of 85 county health organizations in seven states of the Mississippi flood area.® C. Mental Diseases: Their Nature and Extent We should carefully distinguish, at the outset, between mental deficiency and insanity. The former is essentially a lack of mind and is correctly called feeblemindedness, whereas the latter is truly a loss of mind and is correctly designated mental disease or insanity. The term "insanity" describes the legal status of a mentally diseased person after a court has declared him to be a danger to himself or to society or both. The point is that a person can be declared insane for any one of a score of mental diseases, each one of which is more or less distinct from all the rest in nature, causation, and outcome. STbid. 4The unique way of financing this vast, educational campaign is, of course, by the sale of Christmas seals. 48 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE The nature and relative importance of these mental diseases (psychoses) can be seen from the following table: Number and Per Cent Distribution, by Psychoses, of Patients in Hospitals* for Mental Disease, January 1, 1923 ('Patients in Hospitals for Mental disease, 1923," U. S. Census Bureau, 1926, p. 44.) Psychoses Number Per Cent All clinical groups 265,829 100.0 Traumatic.... 251 0.2 Senile 13,585 5.1 With cerebral arteriosclerosis...... 4,419 1.7 General paralysis.. 9,394 3.5 With cerebral syphilis. 1,810 0.7 With Huntington's chorea 317 0.1 With brain tumor 49 (2) With other brain or nervous diseases.................. 1,060 0.4 Alcoholic 7,396 2.8 Due to drugs and other exogenous toxins........ 554 0.2 With pellagra. 907 0.2 With other somatic diseases 1,978 0.7 MANIC-DEPRESSIVE -- 40,751 15.3 Involution melancholia 5,763 2.2 Dementia praecox (schizophrenia)..114,240 43.0 Paranoia or paranoid conditions............-...0------ 11,953 4.5 Epileptic ———— 9,155 3.4 Psychoneuroses and neuroses...........0..0-0cessc1eseseese-os 2,351 0.9 With psychopathic personality...2,883 1.1 With mental deficiency 20.0...11,942 4.5 Undiagnosed ———— 14,235 5.4 Without psychosis 2220.2...9,499 3.6 Unknown - 1,467 0.6
(2) Less than one-tenth of 1 per cent.
That insanity is increasing in the United States, there can be little doubt. It is probable, however, that much of the increase is due to the fact that mental diseases are much more noticeable and are treated earlier now than ever before. This fact, together with the better facilities that are increasingly available for the care of the insane, explains a good deal of the increase noted in the statistics. It is quite incorrect, moreover, to assume that all insanity is attributable to one cause—heredity. As a matter of fact, each specific form of mental disease has its own unique set of causes, some being hereditary, others non-hereditary. Generalizing in regard to insanity as a whole, it is more nearly correct to assume that it is produced by two equally important sets of causes—(1)
Class leaders and L. D. S. Welfare workers generally will do well to write for a copy of "A Review of 1928," by Dr. G. E. Vincent. Rockefeller Foundation, 61 Broadway, New York City.
*State hospitals 165 Other public hospitals................ 148 Private hospitals 213
GUIDE LESSONS FOR MARCH 49
predisposing facts (hereditary, constitutional, etc.); and (2) contributing factors (environmental pressures, life experiences, etc.)
D. The Mental Hygiene Movement
The mental hygiene movement is uniquely an American effort—precipitated by Clifford W. Beers' epoch-making book, A Mind That Found Itself—to prevent nervous and mental diseases and to raise the standards of care and treatment of the mentally handicapped. It assumes that what was done by educational and community organization methods for the control of tuberculosis can also be done for insanity. The chief problems attacked, of course, are mental disease, feeble-mindedness, and epilepsy. The borderline conditions, including such mild disorders as hysteria, neurasthenia, psychasthenia, anxiety neuroses, etc., are also of chief concern, not only because they constitute by far the largest group of the mentally handicapped, but because they respond best to curative and preventive treatment.
Mental hygienists and their social work colleagues in this field are devoted also to the task of raising the standards of care and treatment of the insane, the feeble-minded, and the epileptics in public institutions. Then, too, by means of survey and demonstration, important mental hygiene projects have been launched under both public and private auspices. On the more strictly social service side are to be noted the almost universal employment of psychiatric social workers in State institutions. These workers have become invaluable in the diagnosis and treatment of the mentally handicapped.
The outstanding achievement of the mental hygiene movement, to date, however, is the child-guidance clinic, a free outpatient facility for the diagnosis and treatment of children's conduct disorders. The minimum staff of a child-guidance clinic comprises a psychiatrist (who is also a physician), a psychologist, and a psychiatric social worker. In almost every American city of any size, one or more of these clinics serves the juvenile court, the public schools, the social agencies, and parents generally, in the personality adjustment of children who are traditionally labelled "delinquent," "incorrigible," "nervous," "truant," "unadjusted," "sub-normal," etc.
Questions for the Further Stimulation of Thought
1. What do people die of in your community and State? Do these causes differ from those in other places?
2. Make a list of all the various health and medical agencies serving your community.
50 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
3. To what extent is illness and disease a cause of poverty and destitution in your community?
4. How forward-looking are the public health facilities and regulations in your town and state? Do you require all milk that is sold to be pasteurized?
5. Is your community adequately supplied with well trained physicians, competent nurses and modern hospital facilities? Whose business is it to see that such services and facilities are made available in your community?
6. How do mentally-ill people in your community get into your state hospital? Do they go via the county jail? Is this practice intelligent and humane? Then why does the practice continue?
7. Does the mental hospital in your State measure up to the best standards of care and treatment in such matters as fire protection; ample accommodations; size and quality of its staff— medical, nursing, psychological, social service, occupational therapy, etc.?
8. Is there an out-patient department maintained by your State hospital?
9. Does your State hospital take the position that all insanity is more or less incurable? Why?
10. Are the services of a child-guidance clinic available to your community? Why not?
11. Get some member of your group to read and review A Mind That Found Itself by Clifford W. Beers, or Reluctantly, Told by Jane Hillyer. Your local librarian will be glad to get these books for you.
Leadership Week at B. Y. U.
Leadership week at the Brigham Young University will convene Monday, January 27th, covering the week including January 31st. An attractive program is being prepared under the direction of Dr. Lowry Nelson, head of the extension division. The Slogan for the week is "Your Community and What You Can Do For It."
Conferences and Conventions
General Board members visited Relief Society stake conventions and conferences, which were held in the stakes during 1929, as follows:
Alberta—Mrs. Elise B. Alder. Alpine—Mrs. Jennie B. Knight. Bannock—Mrs. Julia A. F. Lund. Bear Lake—Mrs. Marcia K. Howells. Bear River—Mrs. Louise Y. Robison. Beaver—Mrs. Nettie D. Bradford. Benson—Mrs. Elise B. Alder. Big Horn—Mrs. Marcia K. Howells. Blackfoot—Mrs. Lotta Paul Baxter. Blaine—Mrs. Annie Wells Cannon. Boise—Mrs. Louise Y. Robison. Box Elder—Mrs. Cora L. Bennion. Burley——Mrs. Inez K. Allen. Cache—Miss Alice L. Reynolds. Carbon—Mrs. Jennie B. Knight. Cassia—Mrs. Julia A. Child. Cottonwood—Mrs. Kate M. Barker. Curlew—Mrs. Annie Wells Cannon. Deseret—Mrs. Nettie D. Bradford. Duchesne—Mrs. Ida Peterson Beal. East Jordan—Mrs. Julia A. F. Lund. Emery—Mrs. Jennie B. Knight. Ensign—Mrs. Kate M. Barker, Mrs. Julia A. F. Lund. Franklin—Mrs. Ethel R. Smith. Fremont—Mrs. Nettie D. Bradford. Garfield—Mrs. Louise Y. Robison. Granite—Mrs. Marcia K. Howells. Grant—Mrs. Julia A. Child, Mrs. Julia A. F. Lund, Mrs. Louise Y. Robison. Gunnison—Miss Alice L. Reynolds. Hollywood—Mrs. Julia A. F. Lund. Hyrum—Mrs. Julia A. F. Lund. Idaho—Mrs. Ethel R. Smith. Idaho Falls—Mrs. Amy W. Evans. Juab—Miss Alice L. Reynolds. Juarez—Mrs. Annie Wells Cannon. Kanab—Mrs. Louise Y. Robison. Kolob—Mrs. Marcia K. Howells. Lethbridge—Mrs. Elise B. Alder. Liberty—Mrs. Nettie D. Bradford, Mrs. Lotta Paul Baxter. Lehi—Mrs. Inez K. Allen. Logan—Mrs. Elise B. Alder. Los Angeles—Mrs. Julia A. F. Lund. Lost River—Mrs. Julia A. F. Lund. Lyman—Mrs. Julia A. Child. Malad—Mrs. Inez K. Allen. Maricopa—Mrs. Annie Wells Cannon. Millard—Mrs. Annie Wells Cannon. Minidoka—Mrs. Nettie D. Bradford. Moapa—Mrs. Nettie D. Bradford. Montpelier—Mrs. Ida Peterson Beal. Morgan—Mrs. Ida Peterson Beal. Moroni—Mrs. Louise Y. Robison. Mt. Ogden—Mrs. Ida Peterson Beal. Nebo—Mrs. Cora L. Bennion. Nevada—Mrs. Inez K. Allen. North Davis—Mrs. Marcia K. Howells. North Sanpete—Mrs. Ida Peterson Beal. North Sevier—Mrs. Jennie B. Knight. North Weber—Mrs. Ethel R. Smith. Ogden—Mrs. Julia A. F. Lund. Oneida—Mrs. Elise B. Alder. Oquirrh—Mrs. Amy W. Evans. Palmyra—Mrs. Louise Y. Robison. Panguitch—Mrs. Jennie B. Knight. Parowan—Mrs. Amy W. Evans. Pioneer—Mrs. Nettie D. Bradford, Mrs. Lotta Paul Baxter. Pocatello—Mrs. Cora L. Bennion. Portneuf—Mrs. Louise Y. Robison. Raft River—Mrs. Kate M. Barker. Rigby—Mrs. Julia A. Child. Roosevelt—Mrs. Julia A. F. Lund. St. George—Mrs. Ethel R. Smith. St. Johns—Mrs. Inez K. Allen.
52 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
St. Joseph—Mrs. Annie Wells Cannon. Salt Lake—Mrs. Cora L. Bennion. Miss Sarah M. McLelland. San Francisco—Mrs. Louise Y. Robison. San Juan—Mrs. Julia A. F. Lund. San Luis—Mrs. Ida Peterson Beal. Sharon—Mrs. Julia A. F. Lund. Sevier—Mrs. Jennie B. Knight. Shelley—Mrs. Julia A. Child. Snowflake—Mrs. Inez K. Allen. South Davis—Mrs. Ida Peterson Beal. South Sanpete—Mrs. Ethel R. Smith. South Sevier—Mrs. Nettie D. Bradford. Star Valley—Mrs. Julia A. F. Lund. Summit—Mrs. Julia A. F. Lund. Taylor—Mrs. Elise B. Alder. Teton—Mrs. Marcia K. Howells. Timpanogos—Mrs. Cora L. Bennion. Tintic—Mrs. Ida Peterson Beal. Tooele—Mrs. Annie Wells Cannon. Twin Falls—Mrs. Elise B. Alder. Uintah—Mrs. Julia A. F. Lund. Union—Mrs. Kate M. Barker. Utah—Mrs. Inez K. Allen. Wasatch—Mrs. Julia A. F. Lund. Wayne—Mrs. Inez K. Allen. Weber—Mrs. Amy W. Evans. West Jordan—Mrs. Ethel R. Smith. Woodruff—Mrs. Kate M. Barker. Yellowstone—Mrs. Louise Y. Robison. Young—Mrs. Ida Peterson Beal.
The Seasons
'Tis Autumn here, and Summer there; And somewhere else 'tis Spring, With tiny blades of tender grass And birds come back to sing.
And in some other place the snow Falls gently through the air; Smoke curls from every chimney; There's quiet everywhere.
And so it is with human hearts, Wherever you may go; While your heart bursts with joy and song, My heart breaks with woe.
And when at last my aching heart Begins to lighter grow, Some other heart is singing And another breaks with woe.
—Adeline J. Haws.
A Midland Trilogy
By Lais V. Hales
Vandemark's Folly, The Hawkeye, and The Invisible Woman, comprise Herbert Quick's Midland Trilogy. Each one of these books has in turn been called "the great American novel" by eminent critics. Three rapidly changing phases of American civilization, which have already become mythical, have here been preserved for all time. All three books are composed of the happiest possible mixture of fiction, romance, and history, and their admirers are many and constantly increasing. Though it is about four years since death robbed us of their great author, Mr. Quick lives vividly through his books, which are intimate and biographical.
Vandemark's Folly begins this epic of the Middle West. It is a story of the Erie Canal and the settlement of Iowa. It covers the stirring decade of 1855 to 1865. Its hero, Vandemark, a Dutchman, comes as a pioneer to the much feared and much loved prairies of Iowa. Here he fights for the prairie, builds it up, wins estate and infinite love, and develops a personality that for many years colors both incidents and individuals. Throughout the book one feels the pathos, the tragedy, the exaltation, the variety, the comedy, of pioneer life. Overshadowing everything in the book is the Iowa Prairie, which Mr. Quick knew so well and loved so much. His descriptions of the blizzard and the prairie fire are things never to be forgotten. William Allen White has called this book "the best historical novel of the Middle West."
The Hawkeye continues the narrative of the growth of this American soil through the 'seventies and 'eighties, the era of "engaging ruffians and lovable boodlers." This book covers the era of county irregularities and lawlessness, vividly exposing both the good and the bad of this period. The hero of this book is Fremont McConkey, "a sensitive child, banished from contact save with a few of his kind, condemned to long, lonely days with the green sky of the prairies and the blue meadows of heaven, full of romance, quivering with dreams, timid as a shade-haunting heron, yet yearning for companionship, conscious of his own precocity, secretly proud of it, and yet keenly aware that he must be looked upon by town people as ignorant." How well Mr. Quick knew Fremont McConkey! His handling of his boy hero and his descriptions of the land where Fremont 'snared gophers, hunted the nests of prairie chickens.
54 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
watched the formation of storms, hunted wild-fowl, listened to the orchestration of the birds, leaped sidewise in fear of the rattle snake as the locust sprung its rattle, picked up stubs of grass to fester in his bare feet, and saw his fellow tumble-weeds rolling back and forth in the wind,'—these are two of the three best things in this good book. It is here that we find the finest of Mr. Quick's many tributes to the pioneer mother, of whom he says: "The mothers of the frontier! In the smoky over-heated kitchens, as they washed and mopped and baked and brewed and spun and wove and knit, and boiled soap, and mended and cut and basted and sewed, and strained milk and skimmed cream and churned and worked over butter, catching now and then an opportunity to read while rocking a child to sleep, drinking in once in a while a bit of poetry from the sky or the cloud or the flower; they worked and planned and assumed all for their children....... We build monuments in the public square for the soldiers of our wars; but where is the monument for the Kate McConkeys who made possible so much of the good that is represented by the public square itself? Unless it is a monument not made with hands, in our hearts and souls, none can ever exist which can be in any way adequate."
The Invisible Woman carries the story on to the end of the century—to the time of wild speculation, of railroad power, of invisible government. Woman at this time was just emerging from her "place in the home". Christina Thorkelson is the woman, and she is one of Mr. Quick's finest creations. She has all the honesty, the sturdiness, the understanding, of the pioneer woman plus a confidence which they lacked. The Invisible Woman is a good, honest book but lacks the epic qualities of the first two.
Quick's Trilogy of the Middle West ranks with that of Hamlin Garland. Two great authors of pioneer literature they have many things in common. Both impress their readers with their sterling honesty—their freedom from the spectacular. Both are good story tellers. They have a balanced attitude toward the pioneer and the land he conquered. They both write cheerful, wholesome, soul-lifting literature, and we feel the pleasure they derived from writing of such fine things. Their books are contributions both to the literature and the history of our country. Their subject—early pioneer life—is epic and demands epic treatment, which they have given it with such success.
Planning your progress for 1930!
Will you have the same old job and the same old pay envelope? Or will you be holding a good position at an increased salary? It will pay you to investigate the opportunities available in high grade office employment. We can help you get started where the pay is good and there are opportunities for advancement. Mail the coupon for complete details of our plan. It's time now to think about 1930!
L. D. S. Business College
FOR FULL DETAILS NAME_____________________ ADDRESS_________________
Temple and Burial Clothes
COMPLETE SUITS FOR MEN AND WOMEN
Variety of Grades and Prices Prompt and Careful Attention To Mail—Telephone—Telegraph Orders.
Quick turnover makes possible the lowest prices of your favorite Nationally Advertised merchandise.
Open Daily, 9 A. M.—5 P. M.
General Board Relief Society 29 Bishop's Building Salt Lake City, Utah
O. P. SKAGGS System Stores
When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine
There Are Reasons
Why it pays to trade at the O. P. Skaggs System stores. Our enormous volume and quick turnover makes possible the lowest prices of your favorite Nationally Advertised merchandise.
"YOU CAN'T GO WRONG"
THAT'S WHY WE SAY
"Buy Blue Pine Food Products"
and if for any reason your purchase is not entirely satisfactory, go to your Grocer and he will refund your money.
SEAGRITT'S BLUE PINE FOOD PRODUCTS
JOLLY HOLIDAYS FOR ALL
At this time of the year, this is the best expression of our good will toward you we can put into words. Holidays are not, however, the only days of the year when one needs be happy. Happy people are healthy people, and, therefore, are cheerful—and they radiate among the people they mingle with the same cheeriness and optimism.
The use of Electric Service anywhere where there is work to do brings freedom from drudgery, dependable service, cleanliness and economy. Certainly, everyone will say these play a large part toward sound health and happiness.
OUR COMBINATION RATES —place this valuable service within the reach of all. Call our office and ask for a representative to call. He will explain in detail how it will work out for you. This places you under no obligation to buy a penny's worth of merchandise or service. We merely want to get the facts of the helpfulness of this modern servant to men and women so they may know for themselves that it will bring to them all we claim for it.
AGAIN: CHEERIO!
UTAH LIGHT & POWER CO. EFFICIENT PUBLIC SERVICE
When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine
ON GUARD
This Company stands on guard over the Insurance interests of its customers. Are you fully protected? Have you enough FIRE INSURANCE?
UTAH HOME FIRE INSURANCE CO. Heber J. Grant & Co. Gen'l Agents Salt Lake City, Utah
See our agent in your town
Temple and Burial Clothes
COMPLETE SUITS FOR MEN AND WOMEN
Variety of Grades and Prices Prompt and Careful Attention To Mail—Telephone—Telegraph Orders.
Open Daily, 9 A. M.—5 P. M.
General Board Relief Society Phone Wasatch 3286 29 Bishop's Building Salt Lake City, Utah
Complete Printing and Binding Service
OFFICE RULING AND BOOK BINDING AND BANK FORMS
SPECIAL ATTENTION TO MAIL ORDERS
We offer special prices on binding Church Magazines. These volumes should be preserved as valuable additions to your library.— Write us about them.
The Deseret News Press Salt Lake City
29 Richards Street
When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine
Relief Society Women--- Attention
After sixteen years of service to the people, the BURIAL CLOTHES DEPARTMENT of the Relief Society takes this opportunity of expressing appreciation to you for your co-operation and patronage, which has contributed to the growth and stability of the Department.
The Presidency of the Church, realizing the needs of the people, authorized the establishment of the Department in 1913. Since that time it has endeavored to serve the people.
The Burial Clothes Department desires to announce that it has on hand a large and complete stock of temple and burial clothing in a variety of materials. There are suits for men and women, and burial clothing for children, including tailored suits for small boys.
We give prompt and careful attention to mail, telephone and telegraph orders, and prepay postage and express charges.
When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine
For a HAPPIER NEW YEAR and many of them
* 
o 
* at the dawn of a New Year * * * is the time for you to bring your home the supreme comforts of Natural Gas heat * * * heat that is clean, uniform, healthful, convenient and surprisingly economical.
For cooking, too, Natural Gas is the ideal fuel. Modern Natural Gas ranges are marvels of beauty and efficiency. Automatic Gas refrigerators, gas incinerators and automatic gas water heaters are other modern appliances for your comfort, health and convenience.
Plan now to start the New Year right and modernize your home with complete Natural Gas service.
Natural GAS The Ideal Fuel
Phone or write for information and free estimates
Utah Gas & Coke Co. SOUTH MAIN --- PHONE WASATCH 600 Salt Lake City
Ogden Gas Company Wasatch Gas Company (Branch Office) Phone Kaysville 200
Serving: OGDEN -- LAYTON -- FARMINGTON -- BOUNTIFUL -- CENTERVILLE -- MAGNA -- TOOELE -- GRANTSVILLE
When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine
SAFE From Clothes Line To Basket
The weekly washing represents an investment worth careful treatment. The most delicate garment is safe in the Maytag satin-smooth cast-aluminum tub. Even buttons are not harmed by the Maytag Roller Water Remover. The large, flexible top roll carefully and thoroughly squeezes out the soap and dirt that hides in the meshes of the clothes, and leaves no hard-to-iron wrinkles.
For homes without electricity, gasoline models are available
PHONE for a trial Maytag washing. If it doesn't sell itself, don't keep it. Deferred payments you'll never miss.
MAYTAG INTERMOUNTAIN CO. 211 South State Street Salt Lake City
Distributors
When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine
February, 1930
WINTER EXCURSION FARES
Via Southern Pacific Lines
To LOS ANGELES via SAN FRANCISCO returning direct or route reversed $58.00
Proportionately low fares from all other points in UTAH, IDAHO and MONTANA.
STOPOVERS ALLOWED AT ALL POINTS. TICKETS ON SALE DAILY FINAL RETURN LIMIT 8 MONTHS
For further information CALL, WRITE or PHONE
PRESS BANCROFT, GENERAL AGENT PHONES WAS. 3008—3078
Instant Starting.... With
PEP '88' GAS with a PUNCH
WINTER'S HOTTEST GASOLINE
Here's the new winter gasoline that brings to your car a wonderfully improved cold-weather performance. Yet it costs no more than ordinary gasoline!
PEP '88' is the high quality, balanced, PEP gasoline you know so well, but made with a lower "initial boiling point" so that it starts quicker in cold weather. Try it. You won't need to use the choke so much.
All PEP dealers can supply you with PEP '88'. Look for the signs.
Manufactured and Guaranteed by UTAH OIL REFINING COMPANY, Salt Lake City
When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine
Ask Your Dealer for Z. C. M. I. Factory-Made
CHILDREN'S ALLOVERS Khaki and White Khaki and Peggy Backed Denim for Clothes, Dutch Cut Boys For Girls
The Famous MOUNTAINEER OVERALLS Give Splendid Satisfaction
Sego MILK
Such Delicious Puddings Sandwiches Pies Custards Creams
Good bread is the foundation of a good sandwich * * * and of good health, too. Try Long Royal. It is rich in nutriment, uniform in texture, wholesome and delicious in flavor!
All Grocers
LONG ROYAL
When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine
L. D. S. GARMENTS WINTER LINE
Selected from our extensive line of L. D. S. Garments we suggest the following numbers of winter wear:
No. 1 New style, ribbed light weight. Cotton with rayon silk stripe. An excellent Ladies number..$1.25
No. 2 Old style, ribbed light weight and summer weight......... .75
No. 3 Ribbed med. weight. Cotton, bleached. Our all season number.............. 1.00
No. 4 Ribbed heavy weight. Unbleached cotton. Our best selling double back number.... 2.25
No. 5 Part wool, ribbed unbleached. Our best selling wool number.... 3.00
No. 6 High grade rayon trimmed silk. For particular people..............$1.00
No. 7 Light weight. New or old style, mercerized—
No. 8 Ribbed heavy weight. Unbleached cotton and all wool. Our 50% wool number.................... 3.25
No. 9 Light weight silk for ladies only, new style only....................... 2.50
No. 10 Medium weight. Silk for men and women, new style only...................... 4.25
In ordering, be sure to specify whether old or new style garments, three-quarter or ankle length legs, short or long sleeves are wanted. Also give bust measure, height and weight to insure perfect fit. Postage prepaid.
FACTORY TO YOU—THE ORIGINAL
Utah Woolen Mills Brigham Stringham, Manager 28 Richards Street One-Half Block South of Temple Gates
Protection
Our stock of Nationally Advertised Food Products protects you in the selection of your favorite food items. By patronizing our stores, you can always be assured of receiving more for your money.
O. P. SKAGGS System Stores
ROTAREX WASHER
Convenient Terms
INTER-MOUNTAIN ELECTRIC CO. Was. 354 43-69 East 4th South Salt Lake City, Utah
When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine
L. D. S. GARMENTS
Good grade, and well made. In ordering state Size, New or Old Style, and if for man or lady.
147 Spring Needle, Flat Weave..$1.10 208 Light Weight Rib............... 1.35 32 Combed Cotton, Lt. Weight..... 1.30 222 Cotton Rayon Stripes...... 1.65 294 Ladies' New Style, Rayon.. 2.00 302 Ladies' New Style, Rayon 2.50 307 Men's New Style, Rayon.... 2.75 1072 Mixed Wool and Cotton...... 3.35
Postage prepaid. Sample on request.
BARTON & CO. Established in Utah 45 Years 142 WEST SOUTH TEMPLE ST. Salt Lake City, Utah
258 Double Card. Cotton, Med. Weight. 1.35 628 Mercerized Lisle, Light Weight......... 1.65 264 Rayon Silk, Fine Quality.. 2.50 748 Unbleached Cotton, Heavy Weight 2.15 754 Bleached Cotton, Heavy Weight..... 2.25 908 Unbleached Cotton, Extra Heavy 2.35
DESERET UNDERWEAR MILLS 36 South Main Street
No. 160 A medium weight. Unbleached double back garment prevents breaking in the back..$1.75
No. 260 Same weight. As above only bleached and without double back.................... 1.75
No. 650 and 651 Heavy cotton garments made like above styles............ 2.15
No. 86 An unusually strong and long wearing ribbed light weight garments. New style............ 1.75
New Style or long legs.......... .85 Old Style or long legs.......... .95 No. 46 Light Weight Cotton.................. 1.10 No. 67 Lisle............................. 1.35 50% wool med. Weight................. 3.35 Heavy............................ 3.85
All weights cottons and wool. Samples on request.
"CUTLER" MADE L. D. S. GARMENTS, 36 SOUTH MAIN STREET
L. D. S. GARMENTS Direct From Factory
You are guaranteed unusual wear and satisfaction from Cutler Garments. Made from the best long wearing, two combed yarns.
No. 68 Light Cotton knee length $.75 No. 68 Old style or new style ¾ or long legs .85 No. 74 Ribbed light weight Cotton................. 1.10 No. 84 Ribbed Mercerized Lisle.............. 1.35 No. 76 Ribbed light weight Lisle.................. 1.64 No. 61 Ribbed Med. light Cotton 1.35 No. 62 Ribbed Med. Heavy Bleached... 1.70
Fine Wearing Rayon, Elbow and Knee Length........................ 2.35 Long Sleeves and Legs...................... 2.85
No. 61 Ribbed Med. Heavy. Unbleached Double Back.......................... 1.75 No. 56 Ribbed Heavy Cotton bleached 2.15 No. 55 Ribbed Heavy Cotton, Unbleached Double Back........................ 2.15 No. 27 Ribbed Med Weight. 50% Wool 3.35 No. 39 Ribbed Heavy Weight. 65% Wool 3.85 No. 32 Silk and Wool...................... 4.50
WHITE TEMPLE PANTS 8 oz. Heavy Duck $1.75
SPECIAL MISSIONARY DISCOUNTS
In ordering garments please state if for men or women and if old or new styles are wanted. Also give bust, height and weight.
SPECIAL—When you order three pair of garments at one time we allow you a 15% discount on the third pair.
Postage Prepaid. Marking 15c.
237-8 Constitution Bldg. 34 So. Main
GARMENTS LONG WEARING UNDERWEAR
When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine
Ask for one of our folders describing the different services we offer.
TROY LAUNDRY Distinctive Work Office 319 S. Main St. Hyland 190
SACRAMENT TRAYS
NEW TRAYS FOR WATER GLASSES
A tray designed to give service and satisfaction. A tray every ward would be proud to own and display. The metal is Chromium plated and is guaranteed not to tarnish and it will always keep its lustre. The tray is light in weight and easy to handle. It will last indefinitely, it is very easy to keep clean and will always look just like new.
Now is a good time to replace your worn sets and add to your present sacrament sets with this new perfected tray and glasses.
The glasses used in this tray and for sale by us for your own trays are the best available. They are of lead composition, and have a bluish cast. They are less likely to break and will stand heat and cold much better than the ordinary glasses. These glasses are hand fashioned which insures uniformity of size and weight, thus allowing perfect balance in the tray.
PRICES (Note.—If cash in full accompanies the order, we pay transportation)
Water Tray with 3 dozen glasses complete—each $18.50 Glasses—Dozen.................................... 1.50
Manufactured for and sold exclusively by
DESERET BOOK COMPANY 44 East South Temple Street Salt Lake City
USE HUSLER'S FLOUR Made in SALT LAKE CITY
When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine
CONTENTS
20 Recompense....... Merling Dennis Clyde 54 Blizzard.......... Alice Pierce Willardson 55 Portrait of Mrs. Hazel H. Greenwood.... 56 Mrs. Hazel H. Greenwood...... Rose Jenkins Badger 57 Portrait of Mrs. Emeline Y. Nebeker 60 Mrs. Emeline Y. Nebeker.. Ruth May Fox 61 Snowflakes........Nina Eckart Kerrick 63 The Nutrition of the Child 64 Editorial—Tobacco 70 The Women in the Cage 71 Welfare Work of the League of Nations 72 Every Wednesday Evening........Ivy Williams Stone 73 The Place of Woman in the Farm Home.. Dr. Thomas L. Martin 81 Notes from the Field Guide Lessons for April............ Books for the Family Lais V. Hales
Organ of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints
Room 20 Bishop's Bldg. Salt Lake City, Utah
$1.00 a Year—Single Copy, 10c Foreign, $1.25 a Year—15c Single Copy
Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah
Phone Wasatch 3123
VOL. XVII FEBRUARY, 1930 NO. 2
RECOMPENSE
First Poem to Receive Honorable Mention in the Eliza Roxey Snow Poetry Contest.
By Merling Dennis Clyde
I writhed in deepest agony. My mind Reached out to ask why I should thus endure This untold pain—this age-old cross. Oh, more: I fretted with the knowledge that mankind (And all of Nature's laws are so aligned) Demand that woman touch that unknown shore— Meet Death, yet safely bring the child she bore. But now, all dark and tortured hours combined Can never dim the glory that I know. The sacrifice became a cleansing power That robbed my beating soul of its unrest. Through utter pain came ecstasy. I go Content to live from shining hour to hour, Since I have felt sweet lips against my breast.
BLIZZARD
By Alice Pierce Willardson
Skies are distant, cold, and gray; Winds are hissing, raging, moaning Through a mist of icy turmoil; Snow in clouds is driven upward, Whipped from quiet into chaos, Dancing now in crazed confusion, Rests again in heaps and mounds. Winter, wild and lost and wailing, After all your moods and madness Shall we find the summer mild?
MRS. HAZEL H. GREENWOOD
THE Relief Society Magazine
VOL. XVII FEBRUARY, 1930 No. 2
Mrs. Hazel H. Greenwood
By Rose Jenkins Badger.
Hazel Agnes Hill Greenwood was born November 16, 1886 in Mill Creek, Salt Lake County. Her father, William H. Hill, who came here in pioneer days, was of Scotch descent, born in Canada. Her mother was Elizabeth Ann Hamilton. Hazel was the youngest of her father's children, eighteen in number. Of these, seven were her mother's.
I became acquainted with this wonderful family when Hazel was a little girl about eight years old. I was her teacher. When the weather was too severe to come into town at night, I stayed at the Hill home. It was a real privilege to become intimate with this family. One gets a peculiar and valuable training as a member of a large family where there is unity and love. One's nature is unconsciously broadened by learning in babyhood to get along with people, to adjust to others, to fit in readily; and certainly these traits are Hazel's.
Hazel began her schooling in the old frame school house of the 39th District School. Later for two years she attended the Granite Stake Academy. From there she went to the Latter-day Saints High School, from which she graduated in 1906. She was a regular attendant at Sunday School and Mutual. A spiritual awakening came to her while studying the Book of Mormon in Mutual under the leadership of Sister Marie Hazelman.
In the fall of 1907 her father died, and that same fall she began teaching. The first year she taught in Holliday; the three years following, in the 39th District where she first went to school. While teaching in Holliday she met Jacob C. Jensen, a young man of fine character, whom she married in 1910. The next year her son Grant was born. One year later typhoid fever robbed her of her young husband. This terrific blow was made bearable only
58 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
by her faith. As he left her, she looked out across the fields where she had lived since babyhood, now drab and dismal to her. Said a friend to her, "Hazel, sorrow never leaves us where it finds us." Impressed by this remark, she said to herself, " I shall go back to the school room, but not to teach as I have done, merely to pass a few years away. I shall make of myself the best teacher I can become."
Thus began some busy years—teaching in the winter and studying in the summer. When she climbed the hill to the State University on a hot summer day, the remembrance of the happy, restful, summer afternoons on the farm would come to her. She would wish then that she had used them to better advantage, so that it would not be necessary for her to work so many hours now. By this means, however, she was able to get her life certificate for teaching.
To be a companion her mother gave up her home in Mill Creek and bought a home in the city, taking care of little Grant and making home cheerful and comfortable for Hazel, who was no less devoted as a daughter. In the death of her mother in 1916 sorrow again came to her. It is at such times that one's family is most appreciated. Her brothers and sisters most lovingly tried to help her to readjust her life. They insisted upon deeding the little home to her in addition to her full share in the other properties of her mother. A niece came to live with her to assume the household tasks that grandmother had been accustomed to perform.
Hazel kept her resolve to become the best teacher of which she was capable, doing her work efficiently and faithfully. She made a real home for herself and her boy, besides finding time to do considerable church work. Her experience extended to all the organizations except Religion Class. At this time she was living in the LeGrande Ward.
At the home of a friend she met Judge Joshua Greenwood, who was also a member of the LeGrand Ward. In 1921 Hazel and Elder Greenwood were married. He had two grown daughters at home. Hazel soon won their love, as the Judge gained the love of little Grant. A beautiful home life has been theirs. With the work of her clever fingers Hazel has beautified the house. The broad experience and trained intellect of the Judge have made him a most valuable help to her. He has always had a sympathetic interest in everything she has undertaken. Since her marriage to the Judge she has had the opportunity to travel. She has accompanied him on pleasure and business trips throughout Utah, California, the Northwest, New York and other cities of the East.
MRS. HAZEL H. GREENWOOD 59
Now began her Relief Society experiences. She first served as secretary in Liberty Stake, she next served as counselor to Sister Myrtle Shurtliff in the Presidency of the Stake. In 1925 she was made Stake President, resigning to become a member of the General Board. All persons who have worked with Sister Greenwood in the Liberty Stake agree that her leadership was outstanding. The qualities that contributed to this leadership were congenial personality and unusual tact. Good will and harmony was the prevailing tone of the board over which she presided, and as a result the cooperation was of a very high order, due in large measure to her own temperament.
She comes to her new position on the General Board, well trained, and with a deep-rooted love for the gospel. She loves Relief Society work. She is full of energy. Efficient, dependable. One of her co-workers says that under the most trying circumstance she is always good natured. As president of Liberty Stake, Sister Greenwood put over the Relief Society program in a strikingly intelligent manner. During the beautification campaign she concentrated on better and more beautiful Relief Society rooms. As a result of her work the meeting places for the Relief Society in the wards of Liberty Stake are conspicuous for comfort and good taste. She had her heart set on improving the class work of the Stake and in that project was very successful.
All Relief Society workers know that welfare work can hardly be approached let alone accomplished unless there is fine cooperation between the Bishops and ward Presidents and others who may be doing welfare work in the wards and stakes. Sister Greenwood was unusually successful in bringing about this cooperation. She also stimulated the reading of standard Church Works, the response to this idea being practically general.
In summarizing her work we would say: she exhibited the ability to maintain harmony among her workers; and was fearless in defending the right. She is in very deed a true daughter of her splendid pioneer parents and a worthy representative of a real Latter-day Saint family.
Mrs. Greenwood and Mrs. Kearnes Honored
Honoring Hazel H. Greenwood, their former well loved President, and Ovanda Kearnes, Welfare Class Leader, the Liberty Stake Relief Society Board entertained Saturday, January fourth. A prettily arranged luncheon took place at the home of Ruby Henderson on Michigan Avenue. All who had worked with Sister Greenwood on the Stake Board were guests. Between courses limericks written to the two honored guests were read and at the close of the luncheon gifts which were symbols of the love and esteem in which Sisters Greenwood and Kearnes were held, were presented to them. Liberty Stake wishes them success for the future.
MRS. EMELINE Y. NEBEKER
Mrs. Emeline Y. Nebeker
Ruth May Fox
"The lines are fallen unto me in pleasant places; yea, I have a goodly heritage." So sang the sweet singer of Israel, and well may the subject of this sketch cherish the song in her heart of hearts.
Emeline Young Nebeker was born in the Fourteenth Ward, Salt Lake City, September 27, 1875. Her father, Hyrum S. Young, was the son of the late President Brigham Young, of whom it is only necessary to mention his name to awaken in the minds of thousands of people memories of the marvelous accomplishments of that inspired leader. His mother, Emeline Free, was a charming woman of those early days.
Emeline's mother, Lucy Georgianne Fox, was the daughter of Jesse Williams Fox and Eliza Jerusha Gibbs. All the hardships, persecutions, and occasional romance of pioneer times are recalled with the names of these two people. Jesse Williams Fox is remembered as the first general surveyor of the territory of Utah and also as being one of the kindest and most unselfish of men, who might have made himself wealthy because of his opportunities to acquire choice tracts of land; but these he passed by saying: "Let poor men have it." In the veins of his wife, Eliza Jerusha Gibbs, Emeline's grandmother, ran the blood of the Carter family prominent in early church history. Her family, consisting of three sisters and a brother, were orphaned when quite young. They lived in Montrose and frequently crossed the great Mississippi to and fro between that town and Nauvoo, during those troublous times. The brother, Gideon Carter Gibbs, was in the battle at Far West when the Saints were ordered to stack their arms and deed away their property to the enemy. Eliza Jerusha, a girl of eighteen, crossed the plains i in 1848 in the same company with Jesse Williams Fox, who, by the way, had been her school teacher. Friendship ripened into love, so the two decided to marry while on their journey. They had their first wedding supper sitting on an ox yoke,, and spent their honeymoon wading streams, crossing deserts, and climbing mountains to an unknown land. Emeline's father, Hyrum S. Young, who for a long time was cashier of the Deseret National Bank, was a loyal son, a devoted husband, and an indulgent father, a gentleman in every 62 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE sense of the word. Like her mother before her, Lucy Georgianne Fox was a gentle, kind, and hospitable woman, making friends of every one, especially the needy. She was one of the first women associated with the kindergarten movement in Utah, and became very active in that organization, holding meetings in her own home and assisting in organizing kindergarten groups. For many years she was counselor in the Salt Lake Stake Relief Society when Mrs. Clarissa S. Williams was president of that stake, holding that position when she passed away to a more beautiful sphere of action. Emeline was graduated from the normal school of the University of Utah in 1895 and taught four and one-half years in the public schools of Salt Lake City. She was also active in Sunday School work. In her choice of husband she was fortunate in joining hands with another notable pioneer family. Walter D., her husband, is the son of George Nebeker and Maria Dillworth. In the early 60's Mr. Nebeker was called to preside over the Hawaiian Mission and also to start the sugar industry in that then far-away land. His wife, Maria Dillworth went with him and taught school, having a group of native children for her pupils. An interesting incident is recalled in connection with this trip. Mr. And Mrs. Nebeker had both crossed the plains by ox teams; now they must journey to Sacramento in the same slow way, thus crossing the con- - tinent in that weary, dreary mode of travel. They rode the great Pacific on a sailing vessel. But lo, what a change! Five years later when returning to Salt Lake City they traveled from San Francisco with what appeared to them to be the speed of the lightning. The Great High Way had been completed. This visit, however, did not terminate Mr. Nebeker's mission. He returned to the Islands, remaining four years longer, making a mission of nine years in all. Since her marriage, as before, Emeline has been active in church organizations, having worked in the Primary, Mutual, and Relief Society. She has been ward president of each of these associations, also a stake officer in the Primary Association. At this writing she is president of the Twelfth-Thirteenth Ward Relief Society. Emeline is able to trace her lineage on both sides to that eventful war which won American independence; consequently she is a member of the Utah State Society of the Daughters of the Revolution, and she has held the position of regent in that Institution. Civic work also has claimed her interest, and she is now a director on the Community Chest Board. Emeline is the proud mother of two children, a son and a daughter. Both are attending school, the daughter in Junior High MRS. EMELINE Y, NEBEKER' 63 and the son majoring in history at the University of Utah. She has a lovely home and is a real home-maker, believing absolutely that home happiness is the greatest factor in a successful life. What more need be said? Up to the present she has filled her mission nobly. Her natural abilities, her activities, and the experience she has gained therefrom make her eminently fitted for the great work to which she has been called as a member on the General Board of the National Woman's Relief Society. — SNOWFLAKES By Nina Eckhart Kerrick. See snowflakes in the air, Falling, falling, everywhere; In their crystal purity— Thoughts, by words sent forth on earth, Oft in sadnes, oft in mirth. Oft in just the quiet way That the snowflakes fall today, Beautiful and pure and Oh! It is God who made them so. He who send the snow from heaven To the world has also given Blessed thoughts, so pure, devine, Just to drift to earth and shine Like the snowflake as it lay Glistening on the ground today. The Nutrition of the Child (Prenatal and Postnatal) By Dr. L. L. Daines, University of Utah. In infancy, sickness and death are due largely to diseases, of the intestines and stomach and to acute respiratory diseases. There has been a remarkable decrease in the past few years in the death rate in infants from diseases of the intestines and stomach, mainly because we have a better knowledge of the proper diets for children. For the welfare of the child clean heredity is not the only thing to be seriously considered during the prenatal period. While the twelve months before the child is born is the period most neglected in regard to his care and feeding, we are learning a great deal concerning what can be done then to guard his welfare in a physical way. Diseases From Prenatal Conditions. Breast milk is often deficient in the essential inorganic salts, as well as in vitamins—a fact that undoubtedly explains, at least partially why some breast-fed infants suffer from rickets, scurvy, goitre, etc. It seems safe to assume that the blame for this condition lies in improper prenatal maternal feeding. Evidence is accumulating that the need of calcium and phosphorus for bone building are greatest in foetal life. The calcification of the first teeth is said to begin early in the prenatal period; while calcification of the second or pérmanent set begins some time before birth. The mother who at this time, is willing to include in her food goodly quantities of these essential things is going far toward insuring the proper development of her child. Another inorganic substance that is commonly lacking is iodine—a condition often completely neglected in the diet of the prenatal period. Dr. Robert Olesen, in Public Health Service, says: "During the prenatal period, iodine should be administered under the direction of the medical attendant, thereby preventing the development of goitre in the child as well as in the mother." The inorganic salts and vitamins needed by the foetus or the nursing infant cannot be built up in the mother's body; they must be obtained from her food or from the store of such substances in her own body tissues. Diet For Infants In the case of artificially fed infants, it is of course just as THE NUTRITION OF THE CHILD 65 essential to concern ourselves with all these necessary elements. While many of the serious disturbances of digestion in infants are due to bacterial contamination of food, still perhaps as many, or more, such disturbances are due to improper balancing of the infant's food. The pediatrician, or specialist in children's diseases, can usually correct these conditions by a careful adjustment of the proteins, fats and carbohydrates. In proper hands, this is one of the most fruitful fields in the prevention and treatment of human disease. It seems safe to say that a large proportion of the decrease in infant mortality is due to the intense interest that is being taken in foods and nutrition by the general public as well as by the medical profession. There never has been a time when so many people have been interested in foods and nutrition as now. This is because the importance of a proper diet for health and long life is more apparent than in the past. In determining a proper diet, many things must be considered, such as the right kinds and proper amounts of proteins, carbohydrates, and fats. Mineral salts make up a very necessary part of the diet. It is desirable to give attention to the things that will stimulate the appetite; and we must carefully supply a sufficient amount of indigestible material to keep up the proper tone of the intestinal muscles. * Substances Essential For Health Recently there have been discovered five or six substances. Whose presence in the food is necessary for health, for the proper physical development, and for the propagation of the race. Because nothing is yet known of their chemical nature, they are assigned letters of the alphabet. The first to be discovered was vitamin C. This substance is present in milk and fresh uncooked vegetables and fruits, especially in orange, lemon and tomato juice, when these are ripened in the field. It is sensitive to boiling and even the temperature of pasteurization of milk, if air is present during the process, destroys it. Its absence from food for any length of time results in the development of a definite and serious disease called scurvy. This disease in infants occurs especially in babies who receive for many months a diet limited to heated cows milk, with or without cereal addition. These babies grow pale and fretful, fail to gain in weight, give evidence of tenderness of the limbs, and perhaps bleeding of the gums. It is decidedly possible that in lighter cases, many of the so-called "growing pains" may be evidences of this disease. The greatest danger lies in the fact that a marked susceptibility to infections is associated with this nutritional disturbance. It has recently been determined that it is not the heat that 66 « RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE mainly destroys this vitamin but the oxidation that generally accompanies the process. If milk or other food is heated with but little access of air during the process, almost all of the vitamin is preserved. As a result of this knowledge it has recently been learned how to preserve vegetables and fruits so that they retain their antiscorbutic properties throughout the winter season. Even dried milk contains this factor in almost undiminished amount. This is due to the fact that dried milk is not subject to oxidation in its preparation. The Water-Soluble Vitamins. The next to be discovered was water-soluble vitamin B. This is now considered to be a complex and will probably be called vitamins F. And G. It is present in milk, fresh vegetables, the hulls of cereals, in yeast, eggs and glandular meats, such as liver and kidneys. The absence of this vitamin complex from the diet permits the development of both Beri-beri and pellegra. Of far greater importance to us, however, is the fact that both these substances in vitamin B. Are essential to growth. Several workers have repeatedly demonstrated the marked effect of this vitamin on the appetite. While often referred to as "growthpromoting," this vitamin, like each of the others, is essential to normal nutrition at all ages. This vitamin is not destroyed by boiling unless too liberal amounts of soda are added to the food during the process of cooking. The third is fat soluble vitamin A. It is present in butterfat, milk, eggs, and fresh green vegetables. It is found in the green leaves of plants and in general these are much richer in this vitamin than are other organs of the plant. The pale inner leaves of headed lettuce and cabbage are not nearly so rich as are the green outer leaves. Recent careful work has shown that the green plant tissues other than leaves, used as food in the form of string beans and green peppers are, like the green leaves, rich in vitamin 'A. McCollum found that by depriving an animal of vitamin A, a serious condition of the eye and other complications arise. Although this is important in times of war and famine, \when there is the most serious lack of these vitamins, under more normal conditions the chief interest in vitamin A, centers around its importance in promoting growth as well as in being a regulatory substance. Several investigators have emphasized the fact that respiratory diseases are more frequent among experimental animals whose food is relatively poor in vitamin A. A liberal allowance of this vitamin certainly tends toward a higher degree of health and vigor; and when more is consumed than is needed, the body t THE NUTRITION OF THE CHILD 67 has power to store the surplus and hold it available for future use. This has been found to be strikingly true both of young animals and of adults. That vitamin A plays an extremely important part in the nutrition not only of the young but also of the adult, is now well established. Experiments by Sherman and McLeod in feeding two parallel groups of rats two types of diets, one rather low and the other fairly high in vitamin A, gave the very interesting result that the group given the liberal allowance of vitamin A lived on the average a little over twice as long as those on the diet equally good in all other respects but lower in vitamin A. This vitamin is relatively stable under the conditions generally maintained in the cooking of foods. Rickets and Vitamin D. Vitamin D is correlated with the development of rickets in children and has therefore been called the antirachitic vitamin. It is present in large amounts in cod-liver oil, and occurs in small quantities in butter-fat and the yolk of eggs. Rickets can be cured or prevented by exposure to summer sunshine or to ultraviolet rays, provided the sunshine is not robbed of its necessary properties as in passing through ordinary window glass. It has been shown that the ultra violet irrodition of oils, in themselves not antirachitic, or cholestero, produces a substance identical with, or metabolically equivalent to, vitamin D. The insolation of this compound has recently been claimed. The development of rickets depends on an unsatisfactory relation among three dietary factors—calcium, phosphorus, and vitamin D—and of sunlight. The results of recent experiments emphasize the fact that the outstanding feature of the disease is an incorrect metabolism of phosphorus rather than of calcium, and that this condition is brought about by insufficient amount of both vitamin D. And sunshine. Rickets is a disease of infancy. After the first two years of life, children become rapidly insusceptible to its development. The essential feature of the disease is a defect in the development of bone. This leads to deformity—to abnormal enlargement of the ends of the bones, and to distortion due to bending, owing to lack of resistance of the bone to the body weight. It is caused also by muscular tension and atmospheric pressure. Features of Rachitic Diseases Bow-legs, knock-knees, enlarged joints, flat or deformed chests, and abnormal conformations of the skull, are all the result of failure by the bones to develop in a normal manner. These defects alone do not endanger the life of the infant. Only in severe cases are there permanent distortions and mechanical dis- 68 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE ability. The disease presents, however, in addition to these defects in bone growth, other features indicating a general disturbance of nutritional processes. There is marked anemia, flabby musculation, and impairment of digestive function. Rachitic children are predisposed to dangerous gastro-intestinal disturbances and readily contract infectious diseases, especially those of the respiratory tract. Since rickets is so widely prevalent it is indirectly responsible for a large part of infant mortality. Findley in a recent survey of rickets says: "In England, as in most civilized countries, rickets-is one of the most common diseases of children. Further, it is probably the most potent factor in interfering with the efficiency of the race. It not only stunts the growth and causes deformities, some of which greatly increase the dangers of child-bearing, but it raises considerably the mortality rate of such diseases as measles and whooping cough." It should be said that in order to suffer serious injury from any of these so called deficiency diseases, it is not necessary to have frank or severe cases of them. Scurvy and rickets, for example, may do serious damage without symptoms that would be readily recognized. In pointing out the great importance of the vitamin D. (calcium-phosphorus combination in the proper development of the teeth) McCollum says: "While commendable as a general hygienic measure, mouth hygiene has little if anything to do with the preservation of the teeth. All measures hitherto proposed which stress cleanliness and prompt repair do not get at the root of the evil. The development during very early life of a sound set of teeth is the most important factor in preventive dentistry." A Cause of Sterility In Animals Recently a remarkable series of experiments has been published, setting forth the probability of another vitamin that is essential in preventing sterility in animals. It was found that on certain diets rats could grow to full maturity and appear normal, but were incapable of reproduction. This condition can be cured or prevented by a change in the dietary program. This change involves the addition of certain single natural foods high in a new food factor, vitamin E: or the addition of much smaller amounts of extracts of these foods. This vitamin is found most abundantly in the lipoid extracts of cereal grains, but is abundant also in various leafy vegetables. Additional work has recently shown that young animals nursing from mothers deprived of this vitamin develop paralyses. THE NUTRITION OF THE CHILD 69 The Best of Foods What foods, then, are important in furnishing these essential food factors? It is chiefly because of their outstanding importance as sources of vitamin A as well as calcium and the complete nature of their proteins that McCollum has designated milk and the green vegetables as the protective foods. In view of this fact, a Committee on Nutritional Problems appointed by the American Public Health Association emphasizes the importance of including milk in the daily diet to the extent of at least a quart for every child and not less than a pint for the adult. Sherman says that the standard of a quart of milk in some form every day should be maintained at least up to the age of 14 years. In order to get an adequate supply of vitamin C, uncooked fruits and vegetables must be included in the diet. Foodstuffs suitable for human consumption are, almost without exception, deficient in the antirachitic vitamin D. Butter and egg-yolk are the only common foods which have been shown to contain appreciable amounts. Cod-liver oil and sunshine have a marked protective as well as curative influence. The glandular organs, such 'as liver, kidney, and sweetbread or pancreas, are extremely rich in vitamins as compared with, other parts. The mucle meats and cereals are very poorly supplied except for vitamin E. Milk, leafy vegetables, fresh uncooked fruits and vegetables, eggs, butter, cod-liver oil, and grandular meats are our protective foods, and they furnish in addition appetite stimulating substances and the necessary calcium and phosphorus as well as other minerals. Apparently, too much of these important food factors cannot be taken. The American Public Health Association's Committee on Nutritional Problems says in its report: "Of total food (calories) we can advantageously use only a little more than we actually need; but in recent experiments with vitamins, intakes of several-fold the amounts demonstrably needed have shown no danger, but on the contrary have proved distinctly advantageous. As with fresh air, we can exist without conspicious injury on relatively little, but we can use advantageously a many-fold, larger allowance, generally as much as we can conveniently get." THE RELIEF SOCIETY OF THE CHURCH OF JESUS CHRIST OF LATTER-DAY SAINTS Motto—Charity Never Faileth THE GENERAL BOARD MRS. LOUISE YATES ON - - -. -. - President MRS. AMY BROWN LYMAN - - - - - - - First Counselor MRS. JULIA ALLEMAN MILD - - - Second Counselor MRS. JULIA A. Z. - - General Secretary, and Treasurer Mrs. Emma A. Em Mrs. Gora L. Bennion Mrgs. Elise B. Alder Miss Sarah M. McLelland Mrs. Amy Whipple Evans Mrs. Inez a Alten Mrs. Annie Wells Cannon Mrs. Ethel Reynoldgy Smith Mrs. Ida P. Beal Mrs. Jennie B. Knight Mrs. Rosannah C. Irvine Mrs. Kate M. Barker Mrs. Lalene H. Hart Miss Alice Louise Reynolds Mrs. Marcia K. Howells Mrs. Lotta Paul Baxter Mrs, Nettie D. Bradford Mrs. Hazel H. Greenwood; Mrs. Emeline Y. Nebeker Mrs. Lizzie Thomas Edwards, Music Director RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Editor = - - -: - - - - - - Alice Louise Reynolds Manager - - - - - - - - - Louise Y. Robison Assistant Manager - Amy Brown Lyman Room 20, Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Uta Magazine entered as second-class matter at the Post Office, Salt. Lake City, Utah VOL. XVII FEBRUARY, 1930 No, 2 EDITORIAL Tobacco A recent report published in the daily papers of the State, shows a marked increase in the sale of tobacco in Utah during the past year. We wish we could be sure that no women of the State were adding to this increase. Particularly are we anxious on behalf of women who have been reared in Latter-day Saint homes and have been taught the value of the Word of Wisdom. Yet reports occasionally come to us that seem to indicate that Latter-day Saint women are not 100 per cent strong on this point. Last year a public official refused to eat at a restaurant in one of our towns south of Salt Lake because he said women smoking there offended him. As the population of that town is overwhelmingly Latter-day Saint, the chances are that some of the women who gave offense to that official are from Latterday Saint homes. One of the amazing facts of recent years is the way women have taken up smoking and we regret to say that frequently these women have been encouraged by their husbands to smoke. There are persons in official positions who think it just as intolerant to bar 4 woman from teaching because she smokes as because she has short hair or skirts of the prevailing length, but we are not of EDITORIAL 71 that opinion. We think smoking is a habit that interferes with physical, mental, and spiritual growth, and that it is detrimental to motherhood. Recently a group of American scientists were making their way by train through Continental Europe. A woman was with the men in one of the non-smoking compartments. She was a smoker, and consequently grew restless. She offered the gentlemen cigarettes, which they refused, saying, they did not smoke. She replied to their refusal, "This is embarrassing; do you mind my smoking?" This certainly looks like a case of tables turned; as we view it,—turned in the wrong direction. Not long ago a woman riding on one of our railroads, found herself the victim of her own bad habit. She wanted to smoke; she said she had to smoke, but added, "If I do, I shall give offense to every man and woman on this train". However she went into the smoker and began to smoke, and, as she had anticipated, there was a fuss. The conductor said that every woman in the car was scolding him for letting her smoke. She certainly was unpopular in that company, and very much to be pitied. Perhaps she took up with this undesirable habit by associating with men and women who urged smoking, and led her into it. Hence her trouble. Compared to the embarrassment of this woman the perverbial fish out of water is to be envied. We trust that Utah standards will not break down. Let us hold the line, even as the French held it at Verdun. "Thou shalt not pass," is as important a slogan in the spiritual realm as it ever could be in the realm of the physical., The Women in the Case In our New Year's issue we paid tribute to President Herbert Hoover and Premier Ramsey MaDonald. These two men deserve the support and confidence of all people who believe in the possibility of a better world—a world no longer torn by national prejudice or by such strife as wars are made of. And here we wish to pay tribute to the women who are officially hostesses for these two great men. Lou Henry Hoover is a college trained woman with fine American traditions behind her. She is socialized in the real sense. For years those close to her know how sincere have been her efforts to better untoward conditions in the world, and how generously she has given of her means to foster such movements. The Twentieth Century with its program of betterment for children and peace for humanity has in her an intelligent and sympathetic supporter. The hostess of Premier Ramsey MacDonald is his daughter, Ishbel, a very serious minded young woman interested first of all in social work. While in America with her Father, she spent 72 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE much of her time in settlements and other places where up-to-date social work is being done. She and her father attended a social work Conference in New York City; afterwards they were guests of Miss Lillian Wald of Henry street Settlement fame, of the Settlement Workers' Home in Saugatuck, Connecticut. This is the second time Miss MacDonald has been her father's hostess at No. 10 Downing Street. During Mr. Stanley Baldwin's term of office she devoted herself very actively to Social Work in England. Surely the world is growing better. It is a far cry from the time when the poor little ignorant Queen of France, Marie Antonette, hearing the murmurings of the mob in front of the Palace, asked why they were protesting; when told that they were asking for bread, she exclaimed, "Why don't they eat cake?" Mrs. Hoover and the young Miss MacDonald are each zealous that their grasp of present day situations shall be in a high degree intelligent and comprehensive. Welfare Work of the League of Nations Social workers the world over will be interested in knowing of the Welfare Work that has been done by the League of Nations during the ten years of its existence. For that reason we include the following account of Welfare Work as published by the New York Times, January 5, 1930: "The League health organization, and especially its conference at Warsaw in 1922, attended by twenty-eight States, including Russia and Turkey, has been a most powerful influence in preventing the spread of epidemics from Eastern Europe and laying down principles of international health control. The League's conference on the protection of children and the traffc in women have created legislation in various States checking cruelty and immorality and educating world opinion. One of its most humane works was the repatriation of 500,000 war prisoners who still despaired behind their barbed wire four years after the armistice. Another was its rescue of Russian refugees and other victims of war and revolution. In this work the American Red Cross gave generous help. A committee of the League was appointed in 1924 to secure more efficient suppression of slavery and forced labor among primitive peoples and its conventions have been signed by fortysix states. The Opium Commission has not yet succeeded in restricing the traffic in that drug owing to the fortunes gained by the evasion of regulations. The absurdity of the passport system in Europe and its constant annoyance to travelers have been lessened by representations from Geneva to various governments. Every Wednesday Evening By Ivy Williams Stone. At three o'clock on Wednesday afternoon Nancy Ware was hurrying to finish her ironing. There remained only the rompers, six pairs of them for the sturdy, robust twins, also the baby's creepers. The dish towels and sheets, smoothly folded, but unironed, were piled on the table. The sink was full of milk bottles and unwashed dinner dishes. Little ripples of lint lay under the ironing board and around the table legs. Baby Jean had been fretful with her teeth, and the boys had run away. Now, in the temporary peace caused by the three little sleepers, Nancy ironed with desperate haste. She had to get through. The kitchen must be cleaned and the dining room dusted. Most good housewives would have «heir ironings finished by Tuesday evening. Thus pondered Nancy, as the iron sputtered over 4 wax crayon in a coverall pocket. But perhaps they did not have three babies; and besides, it was her birthday. The icecream was ripening in the basement, and the cake only lacked icing. John would be sure to bring her a gift, and they would have a family celebration. Nancy hurriedly pressed the last coverall. She was leaning over to disconnect the iron when the doorbell rang with an insistence that would have awakened the sleeping babies, had it not been muffled. "Company," muttered Nancy, pulling a wry face. "Of all times!" Brushing a lock of moist hair from her forehead, she hastened to answer. There stood a Personage, who in contrast to Nancy's flushed appearance could only be called "The Cool Lady." From her perfect fresh marcel to the tips of her new tan slippers she reflected a study in personal care. "How do you do, Nancy?" The voice was musical, -perfectly modulated. "Why," floundered Nancy, struggling to place this face in the mental gallery of people she used to know. "May I come in?" A hand as white as any lily of the field opened the screen; and with a faint odor of delicate perfume, the Cool Lady entered the clean but toy-strewn room. One rocker held a set of tinker toys, another a sand dumper; while a set of blocks littered the floor. Nancy hurriedly cleared a chair and thrust it toward her guest. "O Henrietta Long," she cried triumphantly, "Where, oh where, did you drop from? Why, I haven't seen you since we graduated!" "Not since that June night when you successfully screened 74 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE John and me while we sat out a dance I cut with funny little Laffy Myers. Have you ever seen him since? I'm spending the summer with Grandma Long. Remember, I lived with her when I went to High." "And John and I have been married seven years,' mused Nancy. 'Have you. Ever—" "Never," supplied Henrietta. "Guess you think my name has been Long long enough. But I went to France as a war worker. Since then I've been teaching home economics in High School." A turn of the beautiful hands revealed nails polished and manicured to perfection. Truly Henrietta was beautiful; didn't look a day older either, except that she had a touch of arch poise. As Nancy surveyed the waxwhite profile, the drooping lids, the charming mouth, she was acutely aware that her own hands bore the stains of recent apple jelly. She knew her nails hadn't been polished for months, that her marcel was nearly gone. She was swept with an inferiority complex. She felt a surging return of the old, inexplicable resentment which Henrietta used to create. She had always seemed so superior. She had always conveyed the opinion of having the most dresses, the newest styles, the highest grades, the most beaux. How well Nancy remembered the eventful evening Henrietta had just sketched. She had been beautiful in her flowered mulle, long, of course, with three-quarter sleeves. She had always possessed a way of making the boys curious. Over little nothings, and her programs were always full. There had been an odd little fellow in their class—Lafayette Myers. But because he was queer and lived among the retorts and bottles of the chemistry laboratory, everybody called him "Laffy." Somehow he had managed a dance with Henrietta and she had cut it—and sneaked out on the balcony with John. Nancy's John! That, of course, long before he had noticed those sterling qualities which made Nancy a most desirable life companion. Laffy Myers had been unable to find Henrietta. So, after his near-sighted eyes had traversed the hall twice, he had sat the dance out with Nancy. She had been obliged to appear interested in his technical explanations of blue liquids in retorts and of the antidote for something he expected to perfect.: Nancy fancied she could still see his rapt expression, the skrewed-up face, the blinking eyes behind the thick lenses. All the time Myers had talked and Nancy had pretended to listen, she could hear Henrietta's subdued laughter from the balcony. Henrietta had really expected too much! As she faced her graceful, smiling guest, all these memories in kaleidoscopic array flashed across Nancy's mind. Henrietta's delicate yellow silk heightened the whiteness of her skin. In EVERY WEDNESDAY EVENING 75 contrast Nancy compared her own housedress to sack-cloth and ashes. Suddenly Henrietta sniffed and puckered her nose. "I smell, smell something burning," she said. "Oh my gracious!" cried Nancy, dashing kitchenward. "I forgot the iron!" Henrietta followed the precipitated Nancy. They found the cloth charred under the iron, but otherwise no harm done. "Are you ironing?" queried Henrietta. "Why Grandma and I finished ours Monday afternoon. Mustn't get slack, Nancy!" "I was just finishing when you rang," defended Nancy.. "Oh, no!" contradicted Henrietta, "you weren't finished. All these sheets and teatowels—" "I don't iron them," countered Nancy. "They are healthier sun kissed. All doctors claim that." "I'll iron them," announced Henrietta with finality. "They'll look so beautiful you'll want them so always. Tidy up your sink and get your dinner started. I believe I'll stay and see old John." "We have dinner at noon. But we'll be glad to have you eat supper with us, Henrietta. It's my birthday, and John will be delighted to see you." "The nicest people," added Henrietta, moving the iron with snail-like speed over the first hem of the first sheet, "The people who care, have dinner at six and lunch at noon. Supper is obsolete."' "But John can't sleep if he eats heavily at night;" and Nancy, washing dishes with lightning rapidity, felt the old sweeping resentment rising within her. Henrietta should not remodei the customs of their home with her notions on etiquette. ' Nancy finished the kitchen, dusted the dining room, cleared the litter of toys from the living room, before Henrietta reached the last hem of the fourth and last sheet. Nancy put away the coveralls and, unobserved, tucked the unironed teatowels into their proper drawer. After all, one must be courteous to the guest. "Let me put away the board." she offered. Henrietta relinquished the iron with no protest, making no inquiry about the missing towels. "I do feel rather fatigued," she admitted. "Strange how strenuous work weakens one!" The babies awakened and Nancy cuddled and mothered each one in turn. Then, while baby Jean drained her bottle, the boys were dressed in white suits. Presently two sturdy, fine specimens of future manhood stood before Henrietta. "Now" thought Nancy with pardonable pride, "Henrietta can't brag of nicer children than ours." "You should dress them in colors, Nancy, never white." "But white boils clean." began Nancy, then stopped. Why argue with Henrietta? She always would be superior. 76 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE "White," continued Henrietta, as if addressing a class in sewing, is a difficult color for even the very beautiful to wear." Here one of the twins poked an inquisitive finger toward the pale yellow silk. "Oh don't let him touch me," she cried. "He'll spoil my gown." Thus admonished, little John took refuge behind Nancy ~ and cast frightened glances toward the cool lady. Nancy hurried to prepare the meal. Supper or dinner—at least they must eat; the best linen and the sterling silver; Haviland china for the three adults; heavier ware for the boys, with a baby plate for Jean. "Why don't you give your boys the good china too?" queried Henrietta, surveying the table critically. "They can't be trusted yet," replied Nancy determined not to become ruffled. "Since the war, you can't match the better china." "Teach your children a love for the beautiful and they will treat it accordingly," chanted Henrietta in a class-room voice. "Children must be trained to handle good dishes. You should have used a boiled icing on your cake, Nancy." Nancy thought of the time little John threw his spoon and shattered her one piece of Tiffany cut glass. She also thought of the pale yellow silk he had been forbidden to touch, and smiled silently. Six o'clock brought John, carrying a confectioner's box. Nancy, looking sweet and happy in her pink frock, smiled joyously at his greeting. Thoughtful John, who never forgot! "Sweets to the sweet, Mrs. Ware," he called, extending his gift, "even if you are thirty and married." He bent to kiss her but Henrietta, who had slipped behind the door, now stepped, between them. "Not in public," she reproved archly, "it isn't good form. How do you do, Johnny? My, but you're fat!" "Why Ritta," cried John Ware, seizing her hand with what seemed to Nancy over zeal. "This is a pleasant surprise. From where, what to and why?" alte John and Henrietta the meal was food with memories. Nancy, feeding the baby and serving the boys, found little opportunity to eat. "Do you remember the time you and I cut Latin and went rowing?' queried Henrietta, tapping John familiarly with her cake fork. "You mean played hooky and got all wet on the raft?" counted John. 'This is sure some cake, Nancy. Mind if I have another piece?" "It would have been better with boiled icing," persisted Henrietta, nibbling daintily. John stopped eating and shot a quick glance at Henrietta, EVERY WEDNESDAY EVENING 77 then on to Nancy. Then a queer little smile puckered his lips and he almost whistled. "Do you remember the time I sprained my ankle and you practically had to carry me home?" "Um-Hum—" mumbled John eyeing the last piece of cake. "Do you remember," continued Henrietta with her old gaiety and air of mystery, "the time you coaxed me to cut Laffy's dance and hide with you on the balcony? Wasn't the moon georgeous and the lilacs heavy with perfume?" "I remember old Laffy sitting the dance out with Nancy— made me sore," mumbled John, his mouth not quite empty. "Help me up," commanded Henrietta. "Let's go sample Nancy's candy." Nancy had already risen with baby Jean in her arms. But Henrietta sat still, holding out her hand toward John who, finally understanding, gave her a none too gracious assistance. Nancy went to the bedroom; Henrietta, with never a glance toward the disheveled table, led the way to the living room. As John passed, he picked up his still unopened newspaper. "Oh, you mustn't read with guests around," admonished Henrietta, "it isn't done." As Nancy undressed the two little boys, a service usually performed by a proud father, she heard the crackling of paper as Henrietta unwrapped the precious box of candy. There was not room for many boxes of candy in their strict budget. As she tried to quiet the fretful little Jean, Henrietta's voice drifted in, musical and modulated, but always beginning, "Do you remember, Johnny?" How he loathed the term Johnny. Finally peace reigned among the three little sleepers and. Nancy tiptoed out. Henrietta had moved beside John on the divan and emphasized the high points of her reminiscences with little taps on his arm or knee. "I was surely surprised when that French Colonel kissed me and pinned the medal. Ah, Nancy, your candy was wonderful. John has a good memory. He used to buy the same kind for me!" "I really must be going," she added, "beauty sleep comes before midnight." She looked significantly at John who had slid to the far edge of the divan and was stealthily reading the headlines. "I'll walk a ways with you," smiled Nancy. "The air will do me good, and it gets rather dark before you reach the arc light." "But you'll be afraid to come back," reasoned Henrietta. "It's not modern, I know, but I still feel safer with an escort." 'At this direct hint John dropped his paper and rose hurriedly. "Come on," he said, "I'll get you there in a hurry." "Do come again," urged Nancy, who felt she could and should be nice to Henrietta. After all, her life was narrow. 78 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE "I'd love to. I'll be here all summer. Suppose we say every Wednesday evening? I'll enjoy old friends—old memories. Thanks, Nancy." As they went down the walk Nancy turned toward the library table. The box contained little frilled cups and crumpled tinsel, but not one piece of candy. She was clearing the table when John returned shortly after. He was whistling and radiant. "Helloo, Mrs. Ware," he bantered, "was your candy good?" "You and Henrietta," began Nancy. "Henrietta only," contradicted John. "TI ate only a chocolate nut. That girl is some whiz with sweets. Wonder she isn't sick. But she offered to teach me golf, so I won't get too heavy. She's keeping her looks, though, in spite of time. You'd better have your hair curled again to-morrow, hadn't you?" "Say," he called from the bedroom after the dropping of one shoe and before the falling of its mate, "Henrietta told me what's become of that little old Laffy Myers. He's got a job in the experiment lab. At the State U. He married, and had two pairs of twin boys. Then his wife died. Think I'd stay in the lab. Too!" finished John. Thereafter for ten strained weeks Nancy's life became one round of getting ready for Wednesday evenings and clearing up afterwards. Each week Henrietta came fresh and resplendent in a different gown. Each week she suggested new dishes and desserts —all expensive in ingredients, time consuming in their preparation, and unsuited to the diet of growing babies. Somehow, Nancy got her laundry out of the way by Tuesday evening. She managed to have her hair marceled weekly. Each Wednesday evening found the Ware home clean and tidy, the table set with the best linen and china. As always in the old. School days, Henrietta had her way. At first John was interested in the prospective golf lessons. But when he learned the price of sticks and club dues, his enthusiasm waned. "Can't cut it this year," he negatived Henrietta's urgings, "got too many little shoes to buy." So Henrietta brought a checkerboard. While Nancy sang strained lullabyes to the teething Jean, Henrietta and John became absorbed in the intricacies of kings and double corners. Every evening John had to walk home with Henrietta. And Nancy, washing the delicate china with dangerous haste, yielded to the insidious encroachings of jealousy. John was staying a trifle later each Wednesday evening. He seemed less his buoyant self. He was impatient with the babies, reserved toward Nancy. On the tenth Wednesday night he was unusually late. The dishes were washed, three little sets of clothes were arranged for EVERY WEDNESDAY EVENING 79 the morning, and Nancy was setting the table for breakfast when he arrived. He looked elated, like a person who has finished a set, odious task. '"Where's the paper? Late, as it is, I'll read the headlines." He dropped his shoes in the living room and stretched out contentedly on the divan. The next week was an unhappy one for Nancy. Stung by jealousy she attached grave meanings to John's every look or action. Her mirror revealed swollen eyes and occasional tears sizzled on the iron as she hurried through this odious task. She dared not seek advice, urged by pride to keep her misgivings to herself. Good John, unsuspecting John, like clay in Henrietta's clever. Hands! Finally, after wakeful nights, Nancy devised a plan of defense. He sent the washing to the laundry. She hired Edna Watts, who wanted odd jobs, to tend the babies and clean the house. There- ~ upon Nancy went shopping. She choose a dress as elaborate as any Henrietta had flaunted, with slippers and hose to match. She had her hair trimmed, shampooed and marceled. When she left the shop, her finger nails were brilliantly polished. For once the terms of their budget were flagrantly disregarded. In her marketing she selected an elaborate meal. She would keep Edna to help serve, watch the babies, wash the dishes. She, Nancy, would stay in the parlor and be a member of the walking home party. She would learn, first hand, the important things Henrietta had to say to John.. Turning a corner hurriedly, she encountered a little man. A very diminutive man with skrewed-up face and doubly thick lens in his glasses. "Excuse me," he muttered apoligetically, "I did not see you!" Nancy's reply was a spontaneous laugh. "Why Laffy Myers, where did you come from? And what brings you to this old town again?" "Upon my word, Nancy!" The little man seemed glad to see again a familiar face. "You haven't changed a bit. I'm snatching a two-day vacation, and ran down to meet an old friend. Can't take longer. You remember that antidote I once told you I was perfecting? Well, it's almost perfected. I've tested it on several forms of animal life and it responds beautifully. Really, Nancy, I'm so engrossed. It will mean the saving—" "How about your babies—your children?" demanded Nancy, more concerned over the welfare of babies than the saving of, poisoned adults. "Oh--yes." The tone lost its enthusiasm. "That's what brings me to see this old friend.. They must be cared for." He made the excuse of haste and hurried on. Nancy, watch- 80 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE ing the retreating form, thought of the motherless boys whose father had no time for their care. Then her thoughts reverted again to her own problems, the memory of Laffy Myers fading with the cares of her own day. Five-thirty found Nancy ready and expectant. The flush of conflict made her cheeks becomingly pink! The new gown certainly made her look younger. The house was clean, the children spotless, the table perfect. Nancy sat down to await the coming of her husband and guest. At six-thirty John arrived with a confectionar's box under his arm. "Gosh, Nancy, but you look nice," he commented. Then reaching for the paper he stretched out full length on the divan and kicked off his shoes. Nancy sat puzzled. Why didn't he dress for dinner? Henrietta would be here any minute. There was a tiny round hole jn the toe of John's sock. If he didn't get it covered, Henrietta would comment on the duty of wives! John finished the paper and sat up inquiringly. Supper ready?" he grinned. "Why yes," answered Nancy. "Long ago. But you wouldn't eat without your guest, would you? This is Wednesday, you know." John stared incredulously, then understanding slowly dawned upon him. | Have you cooked dinner for Henrietta'? He demanded. "Do you mean to tell me you don't know?" "T know nothing except that Henrietta comes to dinner every Wednesday evening. I have tried to prepare a nice dinner for your friend—" "My friend," scoffed John. She never was my friend, except in her own mind. What you've had her here all summer for, beats me. Making me take her home nights when my feet ached and J wanted to read the paper. Last time I yawned in her face three times before she got through asking for advice and guidance." "Advice? What for?' gasped Nancy, half stupidly, half happily. "Bout old Laffy Myers. He wrote and asked her to marry him. Said he'd take a couple of days off from his beloved retorts. They were married at noon and took the afternoon train back to his antidotes and bottles and babies. Now I know she's gone, I've brought you another box of candy." Nancy's hands trembled as she took the proffered box. Before her mind marched the array of her groundless fears and suspicions. She felt nothing but compassion for Henrietta—playing to the galleries to the very last. How narrow her life had become! Now Nancy understood the superior mannerisms, the little EVERY WEDNESDAY EVENING 81 criticisms. Having no home, no babies, Henrietta had pretended an indifference for all the little services and sacrifices that make up a life worth living. Poor Henrietta! She would no longer wear pale yellow silks, or serve every meal on Haviland china!. "What say," continued John, since you're all dolled up and Edna's here to tend the babies, that we take in a show?" Nancy smiled demurely. "Supper is ready," she answered. "Not luncheon or dinner, but plain, old fashioned supper." The Place of Woman in the Farm Home By Dr. Thomas L. Martin, Agronomist, Brigham Young University. At various times a feeling has prevailed that agricultural work is not dignified. This feeling has changed, or is changing. During the last ten years social and economic leaders, have sensed the need of a more sympathetic regard for the farm; and in order to counteract the migration to the city which robs the country of much of its leadership they have used their energies to create a better attitude toward country life. They are doing everything in their power to get farmers to organize. They aim to bring about conditions which will make the country so attractive that it will take its due place in civilization. Country roads are being improved. Ease of communication is aiding advertisers to offer the installment buying system thus putting their goods into rural homes. Changed conditions are influencing the thinking in the farm home. Extension work through colleges, country high schools, country agents, farmer's bulletins, and leadership-week activities are doing their part. Rural Ideas are changing all. This is of vital interest, for it has its influence on each member of the farm family, particularly on the farm' woman. The Mother Overlooked In the rural home the mother has been overlooked. Her importance has not been appreciated. She it is to whom one must look for leadership in rural life. She is the spiritual force in the home, the guardian of her children. Her presence, her hands, her smile, her fingers, have always done their part in stimulating the men who have ruled the world. She is always home while the workers are in the field. If the father is sick, she manages the farm. If he becomes disappointed she gives him courage. She is the one who knows the child mind before the child can talk. She interprets one child to another and composes their conflicts. 82 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE She interprets the father to each child. She is the very foundation of the home. Without her the nation would dwindle into decayAnd it is to the mother of the farm home that the nation must return if American civilization is to continue. Why Help The Farm Mother? Because of her importance in life, woman must be given more consideration. It may be that man has done his part; yet our rural surveys of the standard of living and conditions in the home reveal the fact that man has been negligent. He has built the house and then assumed that his home job was completed. The four walls of shelter have been provided, but what else? Has it ever been considered that those four walls constitute the woman's workshop? It is in this workshop that ideals develop and it is here that inspiration for the accomplishment of those ideals is created. But long hours of lifting, carrying, cleaning, labor with utensils, with clothing, etc., have fatigued her until it has stamped its impress upon her countenance. As one great writer has stated, "Fatigue has poisoned her nervous system, has weakened her capacities and energies for which she is noted and needed, and has made many a promising young maiden decide that such is the fate of all who accept rural life." Farm Life and Insanity Statistics indicate that there is a lot of insanity in the world and that, with the exception of the alcohol addict, a vast number of the insane are recruited from rural homes. It is estimated that 80 per cent of the inmates of a Georgia institution are wives and daughters of farmers. The rural socioligists attempt to explain this condition as probably due to drudgery and lack of social life. This explanation may be right or wrong, yet the mother is often made a beast of burden because of the great labor she must perform in the home where conveniences have not been considered. Unthinkingly on her part or on the part of the household, she takes the burden of the sacrifices in the home. When the woman on the farm wears out her vitality, the well of inspiration is dry. The spirit life in the farm home is dead. Can we do something for her? What Can We Do For Farm Homes? The story is told. Of one woman who said that she would like to live on the farm, but that her husband must make the home in which she lived a fit place for living. It was agreed that this should be done. The farm home was made over, the house rearranged with the same care that is given in planning barns for high grade livestock. Windows were lengthened to admit more THE PLACE OF WOMAN IN THE FARM HOME 83 light,. A porch was added, cement walks were laid from the front porch. She insisted on and secured a side porch and drive-way to the barn. Windows were arranged for a good view of the outside world, the kitchen was painted white, water faucets were placed in the kitchen, cupboards were built in, gas lights were installed, a bath tub found its place, a well lighted laundry was built in the basement, a sink installed in the laundry, and sewer pipes were connected with a cesspool. A windmill was erected; automatically it pumped air and water for a large pressure tank in the basement. A gasoline engine was installed for light and heat. This sounds like a tremendous lot of luxurious things, but the cost, the windmill excepted, was less than $500. Who will deny that the changes were not worth more to the comfort of the home than would be a used Ford? That farmstead was changed over from one on which a living was to be made to one which provided for nearly all the privileges that can be secured in the much lauded town home. Can Farms Afford The Above Expenses? All farmers in our country cannot do just what is above indicated but they certainly can spare a few dollars for at least the fundamentals of decent working conditions for the women. There are many leisure days in the twelve months of the year. During these periods much that would relieve the burden of the housewife could be done by the husband. This question is serious. Consider the tendencies in city homes. The nation seems to be growing city minded, because city life provides pleasant home conditions. But in the city there are less than two children to the home. In such homes the mother loses both the home instinct and the family instinct. Rural leaders insist that the nation must return to the mother of the farm home. The farm woman lives longer than the city woman, her average life being five years more. She is less frequently found in the divorce court. The apartment houses and family hotels destroy domesticity and weaken home ties. The entertainment is much more conventionalized and superficial. The Nation In Danger How different in the farm home and with farm woman. If one but makes observations he will be led to the conclusion that as the nation continues its city-mindedness so will it arrest the completion of its destiny. The mother of the farm home is the bulwark of the nation and should be treated as such. Rural life needs attention. The accusation is made that the best blood is leaving the country and moving to the city. The condition is becoming alarming. Latter-day Saints pride themselves 84 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE on their wonderful home life. Great claims are made, yet it will prove profitable if the father and mother in our rural homes will take stock of a very important and delicate situation—the conditions of the farm home and the attitude toward the mother of the farm home. Fathers should co-operate with mothers and make the home a better place in which to live. Some of the supposed luxuries of life must be placed in the home and the standards of living improved. An attempt at city conveniences must be made. Pictures, carpets, wall paper, running water, cupboards, closets, sinks, and many things of convenience must be there. Magazines other than those at fifty cents a year are needed. Good Housekeeping, Literary Digest, Pictorial Review, Geographic Magazine, Popular Science Monthly, as well as the religious magazines of the Church will do much to make life more pleasurable and profitable. Consider The Farm Woman The suggestion may be made that it takes money to do these things. The suggestion is a correct one, but some things can be done that will cost but little. Then again are we really doing our best to budget our time and money? Are we 100 per cent efficient in the way we manage? Do we give five per cent of our actual thinking to the problems of the home? Or do we drift along the lines of least resistance? The woman in the farm home is entitled to more attention. The mental and spiritual possibilities of our children must not be stultified by low homé standards. Let us put energy to the questions of home life as well as to the care of animals and barns; then our mothers will be most appreciative, our children will grow up with kind feelings towards rural life, and rural America will furnish what she is expected to furnish—the ideal American citizenship. FORGOTTEN NOBILITY The deizens of pen and fold With broken panes and shingles Are snugly walled against the cold leaking In structures reared on studied lines And blackened walls and knotty floors Laid down by well-conceived designs. They dwell in cosy comfort there, Behind the battered, sagging doors. With just enough of light and air What is good farming for, anyway? And exercise and balanced ration. To furnish children with the wealth Due heed is given each sensation; Of happiness in sparkling health; For farmers prize their blooded stock, To pour the molten mind of youth Aristocrats of herd and flock. In forms of beauty, toil, and truth; To give that mind a rugged form, That's well enough; but I object To shield it from the warping storm When some men wilfully neglect Of lies and disillusionment; The true aristocrats of earth: To keep unstemmed and yet unspent Their daughters, sons, and wives, In every breast a tide of love— whose worth Such is the farm's bright treasureThey risk in houses warped and trove! Creaking —Carlton Culmsee. Notes from the Field Tintic Stake. Reports from Tintic stake indicate that the Relief Society has been very successful during the year, with ward conferences throughout the stake, and in September a noteworthy Class Leaders' Convention at Goshen, in which the wards all participated. A preview for the coming year's work was given by the different class leaders, inspiring talks were given by the president, and others of the stake Relief Society, and by the Priesthood president. In this late Summer, the Stake Presidency and Bishops entertained the aged and the widowed of the stake—nearly two hundred guests—at Provo, with movies, followed by a delicious supper, at the home of President and Mrs. E. Frank Birch. Enthusiasm marked the fall work in all the ward Relief Societies. The feeling of the leaders is one of real gratification. St. Joseph Stake. The Secretary-treasurer of the El Paso Ward writes: "We are pleased and happy to report a substantial growth, with increasing development in the spirit of our El Paso Ward Relief Society. We are keeping in mind the mission of the Relief Society as the Prophet Joseph Smith outlined it—to look after the wants of the needy. Very efficient women we have in our organization, having excellent support by the officers. Over the lesson work the women are enthusiastic, and they enjoy the opportunities it gives for discussion and self expression. A majority of our members attend the meetings regularly. And are active in the various phases of the work. It is remarkable to note the personal development that takes place. The sisters become more efficient as home-makers, and better able to manage their children. The Relief Society Magazine is greatly appreciated. Along with our regular work we provide special entertainment, and wherever possible secure able lecturers on problems of vital interest to our members. Patriarch Harry M. Payne of the St. Joseph stake recently visited us giving many of the sisters wonderful blessings during his stay. For old-time's sake, and as a help in developing the spirit of Relief Society work among our Mexican Latterday Saints, the association commemorated Mexico's National Independence Day, the 16th of September, with decorations, program, and special refreshments featuring a Spanish theme. Spanish-speaking missionaries enjoy themselves with us. Along with our Social Service lessons we have had the 86 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE pleasure of hearing Mrs. D. H. Huffaker, a very efficient leader, in a wonderful presentation of Child Welfare." Weber Stake. Weber stake, reorganized during last Summer, has shown that the officers, though but recently called to leadership, are veterans in the cause of Relief Society service. On August 27, in the nineteenth Ward hall a brilliant Flower Show was held, eight wards offering beautiful exhibits. Hooper Ward received first prize, the Eleventh Ward second, and the Ninteenth 'Ward, third. There were also ninety-four special exhibits, for which special awards were made. Three times during the past year the stake board has received a great deal of joy and satisfaction from visiting the County Infirmary. To each inmate they sent a Thanksgiving and a Christmas box, feeling that the real Relief Society spirit exists where joy is brought to those who are not able to do for themselves. In September at the Eleventh Ward rooms the board entertained, in honor of the ward executive committees and the retiring Stake board members and officers—President Marianne Browning, First Counselor Ellen H. Tanner, and board members Isabell Garner and Ada Quinn. It was a delightful afternoon with a lovely three-course luncheon served to forty-eight sisters. Gifts and expressions of appreciation were presented to the retiring stake members. North Sevier Stake. The North Sevier Stake Annual Flower Festival was held on August 20, 1929, at the Salina Second Ward. The opening program consisting of speeches and greetings and appropriate musical numbers, was furnished by the various wards. The-concluding event was a one-act play presented by the Redmond Ward. A profusion of beautiful flowers adorned the banquet room where light refreshments were served. Judges, chosen from the Gunnison Stake,. Awarded prizes for the best ward collections, and the best individual displays of the following flowers: Sweet Peas, Mixed Boquets, Roses, Zinnias, Dahlias, and house plants. We feel that flower festivals do much toward the beautifying of our communities, Hyrum Stake. The Annual Stake Relief social and testimonial was held on Thursday, August 22, 1929, in the Third Ward Meeting House. The event was in honor of the retiring executive officers: Sisters Susannah Nielson, Emily: Savage, Hazel Peterson, and Millie M. Peterson. A color scheme of yellow and green was carried out NOTES FROM THE FIELD 87 Malad Stake. Malad stake is endeavoring through public lectures to stimulate interest in the Book of M ormon. At one of these lectures a rather of Lamanite sisters gave a hymn, taking all the parts, One of the Lamanite sisters garbed in her native costume, stood beside another dressed in present-day clothing, giving a striking illustration of the contrast between what the Indian was, and what he now is. An able address on the characters of the Book of Mormon, by Elder John Henry Evans, followed the prologue. Minidoka Stake. In Rupert, Idaho, on September 14, Minidoka stake Relief Society held a splendid exhibition, combining literary features with exhibitions of handwork. Nine wards participated. The exhibition opened at noon, with displays of a most attractive array of art and crafts, showing what the various wards had done during the summer and early fall. The display was so arranged that each ward had its own section. Beautiful features of handwork, exhibiting a wide Tange of articles that combine utility and was an abundance of Tugs, pillows, and other articles of house furnishings. Of special merit was the display of children's wearing apparel. Altogether, the display was a triumph of art, coupled with a feeling of thrift and good taste in industry,—all developed within the Relief Society. The literary program that followed was especially fine. The theme was the home; and short talks were given on the following subjects: "The Home," "What Mother Teaches and Her Influence in the Home," "Music and Reading in the Home," "Honesty and Loyalty in the Home." "Prayer, a Divine Guidance," "Reverence for Parenthood," 88 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE "Beauty in Every Day Life," "Opportunities of Old Age," "Spirit of the Master." Appropriate music and an hour of informal recreation with games and other delightful features, made this program a very injoyable feature of the organization work—a combination of social activity and real achievement. Porineuf Stake. In connection with the annual Stake Relief Society Conference in September a unique exhibition of art work was given. Ten wards were represented. The display was a revelation of what may be accomplished by the industrious Relief Society sisters. The stake showed its appreciation for the splendid efforts of its wards in the exhibit by giving to each a year's subscription to the Relief Society Magazine. The conference itself was an inspiration, from the presence of President Louise Y. Robison, and was an incentive to the sisters to make this year one of signal achievement in our history. Granite Stake: During the season of 1928 and 1929, Granite stake has stressed particular activity in regard to the Relief Society Magazine. 'With a view to promoting more intelligent interest in class work' a slogan was adopted: "Read the Magazine from cover to cover, and re-read each week's lesson on the day before the lesson is given." Agents, in securing subscriptions, have urged members to devote the equivalent of ten minutes a day to the Magazine. To bring before the women of our Church the high cultural value of subjects therein, the last Thursday in October was designated as Magazine Day, when a revue and pageant dramatizing one article from each month's Magazine during the year, was presented in every ward. Beautifully typical of our publication, this pageant conveyed by picture, prose, and verse, the scope and variety of subjects contained in each issue. The setting for the presentation of these subjects was a large frame representing the cover— the Relief Society Magazine, with the lettering done in black and gold. Those taking part on the program appeared behind the open oval in the center of the frame, and special lighting effects made a very effective demonstration. The number of subscriptions has noticeably increased. The following slips were handed to every woman attending the meeting: Granite Stake Relief Society Slogan: Read the Magazine from cover to cover, and repeat the reading of each lesson before the day on which the lesson is given. Are you a subscriber?......... Will you subscribe? Guide Lessons for April LESSON I Theology and Testimony (First Week in April) MOSIAH AND THE ELDER ALM. This lesson includes the matter between page 212 and page 251 of the Book of Mormon. Excepting the disquisition of King Mosiah II on popular government and that of Alma the younger on religion, the lesson is mainly narrative. It gives, first, the escape of Alma the Elder and his people from the Land of Nephi to Zarahemla and his work in the Church there in behalf of the younger generation; second, the change in the political government of the Nephites from a kingdom to a sort of republic, due to the Nephite mission to the Lamanites and the cool temperament of the reigning monarch: third, the period of internal struggle among the Nephites, induced by the ambition of one Amlici, and the subsequent conflict with the Lamanites; and fourth, the conversion of Alma the younger, with the king's sons, and his early efforts to undo his first bad works and to build up both the political and the religious organization which had been placed in his efficient and trustworthy hands. In outline form this material would appear as follows: 1. Alma the Elder on his way to Zarahemla. 1. At Helam: (a) Approximate location with regard to the Lands of Nephi and Zarahemla.; (b) Conditions there. (c) Arrival of Lamanites—results. (d) Departure to Zarahemla.
2. Arrival at Zarahemla. (a) Dual people there. (b) Comparative number of each. (c) Reception of newcomers.
3. New duties of Alma.
4. The Younger Generation:
5. Whom this younger set consists of.
6. Causes and results of their defection.
7. What was done about it: (a) Alma's difficulty in the situation. (b) The king's attitude.
90 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
(c) Solution.
3. Alteration in the Nephite government:
4. Form of government before this. (a) Trace the rulers up to now. (b) Tell how they acted toward the people. (c) Give the occasion for the change.
5. Nature of the new government. (a) The grades of judges. (b) Their relation to one another. (c) Their relation to the people.
6. Its workings.
7. Strife under the new regime.
8. Nehor. (a) Who he was. (b) His ideas. (c) What was done about him.
9. Amlici. (a) Who he was. (b) His pretentions. (c) Conflict with him.
10. Alma the Younger.
11. His education and early associations.
12. His early character and purposes.
13. His conversion.
14. Subsequent events. (a) Elevation to the priesthood and chief judgeship. (b) Characteristics of his ministry. (c) His message to the Nation (pp. 245-51).
OBSERVATIONS.
1. This lesson is filled with big ideas, religious, political, and social. Mention has been made on more than one occasion in the course of these lessons of the necessity of going to original sources for our knowledge of spiritual things. An idea so fundamental cannot be too often called to our attention. Anyway, it occurs over and over again in the Book of Mormon. And one of the outstanding occasions for mention of it once more occurs in the present lesson. A "document" has been placed in the hands of King Mosiah, which is in an unknown tongue. Instead of puzzling over it and beating his brain about its contents, he proceeds to use his prophetic office to decipher it. With the plates was found an instrument called a urim and thummim, and this he employs in the translation of the foreign language. The result is that the tragic story of the Jaredites is unfolded before the Nephites.
Alma the Younger, although he was instructed in religion by
GUIDE LESSONS FOR APRIL 91
his gifted father and by means of such literature as the Nephites had, yet he does not depend on that source for his information concerning divine matters. "How do you suppose", he asks the people, "that I know of a surety of the things of which I have spoken?" And he answers with great emphasis, "Behold, they are made known unto me by the Holy Spirit of God, and I do know for myself that they are true. Moreover," he adds, "it has been revealed to me that the words that have been spoken by our fathers, are true." Thus these two men were qualified to speak on the things of the spirit, not because they had conversed with prophets or pored over books, but because they had contacted with beings and powers in another world.
Then look at just one of the political ideas that are in this lesson. Mosiah believes that the people should have a say as to who should rule them. Or strictly speaking, he believes they should govern themselves. In other words he accepts the idea which lies at the very basis of our modern American Government, expressed in the phrase the Voice of the People. "It is not common", he says in a very fine sentence, "that the voice of the people desireth anything contrary to that which is right * * * * And if the time comes that the voice of the people doth choose iniquity, then is the time that the judgments of God will come, with great destruction." If any American of modern times has better expressed a belief in democratic government than that, we have not come across it.
And then there is that age-old doctrine, so repugnant to most people in practice and so much vaunted in theory, the doctrine of social equality—a doctrine too on which the Lord has thrown every possible emphasis through all his prophets in all ages of the world. "Thus saith the Lord," says the Elder Alma. "Ye shall not esteem one flesh above another, or one man shall not think himself above another." This was given as a reason against the decide of kingship. To have a king means that one person is lifted above the people. And this in turn means the building of an aristocracy—lifting a group, or class, of persons above the masses. This democratic doctrine the Nephites of this period carried out in practice. For Benjamin and Mosiah "worked with their hands" so as not to become a burden to the people. And even the religious teachers, including the high priest, earned their living by manual labor. Their society however was of the primitive sort, not highly specialized and complex like ours.
2. No doubt these ideas come to the surface at this particular time in Nephite history because of the very high character of the leaders during this period—Mosiah and the two Almas. For all
92 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
three men were exceptionally endowed with intellect and moral fiber. We have already mentioned the fine moral courage of the Elder Alma, as instanced when he broke with his iniquitous colleagues and the king. His son Alma, it seems, had the same rare quality, as shown when he invited the ridicule (and doubtless received it a-plenty) of his companions and followers at the time of his conversion. To break with the past, whether that past be either wrong or merely conventional, places a heavier tax on our moral stamina than most people imagine, who have not been put to the actual test.
And then, most of all, observe the great clearness of vision, coupled with courage, exhibited by Mosiah when he changed the form of political government. He was king. His eldest son would, in the course of events, be King after him. And what father does not wish his children and his children's children held up in the spotlight? But Mosiah is more anxious for the welfare of his people than he was that the kingship should remain in his family. And so he made it impossible for his sons, any or all of them, ever to change their minds, bring division and probably bloodshed to the Nephite nation. Mosiah was under no illusion as to his children, as most parents are. He knew human nature. He knew that his sons were made of the same clay as other men. And who could tell how long they would retain the Spirit of God?
3. Another very illuminating observation grows out of our contact with such characters as Mosiah, the two Almas, and Ammon (of whom we shall hear presently). We mean the tremendous grip that spiritual things have on the human soul. People who have never had any spiritual experiences often sneer at the knowledge that religious persons claim to have of the unseen forces of the universe, as if the only matters of which the human mind can have any real knowledge are material. The truth is, as President Brigham Young long ago asserted so positively, that there is no knowledge whatever that is at once so sure-footed, so definite and certain and so dependable as the knowledge that comes from a well-defined spiritual experience. In other words, when the Lord reveals anything to you you know it better and more surely than you can know anything in the merely sensuous world. And it is both silly and ignorant for what Professor William James used to call "tough-minded" persons to discredit a spiritual experience on the ground that it was not founded in the senses.
It is doubtless on account of this absolute sureness of knowledge that great conversions like that of Alma and Ammon, in the Book of Mormon, and of Saul of Tarsus, in the New Testament, are so crucial, so shattering to old ideals, so powerful in
GUIDE LESSONS FOR APRIL 93
directing the life into new channels, so steadying to faith in the divine. For only on this assumption of knowledge—and knowledge too of the most assuring sort—can we account for the conduct of such men as these. Alma endured contumely and persecution, Ammon suffered hardships and privation, and Paul invited martyrdom, by merely following the light which never was on land or sea. And strong-willed, intellectual men like them would not have done so for a will-o-the-wisp.
Coupled with the sureness of spiritual knowledge is the very singular thing that no sooner is a person taken hold of by a spiritual experience than he is restless till the whole world comes under the spell of the same influence. It is characteristic when Galileo discovered the great potential fact that a pound of lead and a pound of feathers reached the ground at the same time when dropped from the tower of Pisa, or when, a few days ago, two young scientists discovered that hydrogen is a compound and not an element, these men did not feel an irrepressible urge to spend the rest of their lives showing people that these were facts and not illusions. But when Alma and Ammon and Paul came to know that Christ opens the way to salvation, they could rest neither night nor day as long as anyone remained ignorant, through fault of theirs, of this redemptive truth. It is indeed a marvelous thing, and a wonder.
Questions
1. Relate the story of how Alma and his converts escaped to Zarahemla.
2. Explain the change that took place in the political government of the Nephites at this period.
3. Tell about Nehor, about Amlici.
4. Relate the conversion of Alma.
5. Why should the "younger generation" be slow in accepting religion?
6. What is the difference between a "democrat" and an "aristocrat"?
7. Can you think of a situation in which your love of honor for a child would conflict with the welfare of your people or community?
8. Why should Alma "rejoice" when he was told that his son had fallen to the ground and been stricken dumb?
References. 1. The text pp. 212-251. 2. The "Dictionary of the Book of Mormon" and the "Story of the Book of Mormon" by George Reynolds. 3. "Message and Characters of the Book of Mormon," by John Henry Evans.
94 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
LESSON II
Work and Business (Second Week in April)
HONESTY.
1. Honesty is more than a mere policy, it is a principle. It embraces truth, a reverence for right honorable dealing, and it holds sacred the rights of property. "An honest man is the noblest work of God." Honesty should be cultivated throughout life.
2. Teaching Children to be Honest:
3. Begin Early. "Train up a child in the way he shall go: And when he is old, he will not depart from it."
4. "Honesty is acquired, not inherited." a. The child must understand property rights—"mine and thine." b. He should have his own possessions and jurisdiction over them. c. The group attitude and ideals are of great importance. d. Happiness and success are results of honorable living.
5. There is generally a motive underlying a dishonest act, and it is most important to find it. In a child who has a feeling of inferiority, the motive may be a desire to appear more important. Again it may be to gain recognition of his group, to become more popular. An example of this is taking money to buy candy for friends. Sometimes the group may approve of acts of dishonesty. It may be a result of jealousy or a means of getting even. Whatever the motive may be, "The earlier we recognize that these children are not bad or vicious and necessarily doomed to a criminal career, but that they are simply floundering around, trying to find some outlet for their pent up emotions, the more we can do for them." Let them know we trust them, give them understanding, love and confidence.
6. In referring to a non-tithe payer, President Heber J. Grant said, "How can a man sing lullabys to his conscience and compromise himself with the Lord, when he is strictly honest with men.
7. "We believe in being honest" —13th Article of Faith "Thou shalt not steal." "Thou shalt not bear false witness." Exodus 20:15-16. "Providing for honest things"—2 Cor. 8:21.
8. We owe it to our God, our country, our neighbors and ourselves to be honest. If we observe the Golden Rule in all our dealings, it will be a positive power in character development.
GUIDE LESSONS FOR APRIL 95
LESSON III
Literature (Third Week in April)
ERNESTINE ROESSLER SCHUMANN-HEINK
Ernestine Roessler, later known as Schumann-Heink, was born of Austrian parentage on June 15, 1861, in Lieben, Prague. Her father's name was Hans Roessler; her mother's Charlotte Goldman. The two were married in Italy; for at that time a part of Italy was under the control of Austria. Hans Roessler was a soldier, rough-hewn and uncultured, as he himself declared. "I must admit it, a real old rough-neck soldier just the same! A good, good man he was—but a rough-neck! God bless him!" Charlotte Goldman was fairly well educated; she could speak French and Latin very well, and was possessed of a beautiful contralto voice. It was probably from her that Ernestine inherited her gift.
That Schumann-Heink's great voice was a gift of nature there can be no doubt, for early in her life it was recognized as being very unusual. Though the Roesslers were very poor, friends who could appreciate what they early heard the child sing volunteered to teach her how to use her voice properly. Ernestine's parents were soon separated, owing to the fact that he could not understand her; and poverty glared at them continually. Later Mrs. Heink, then divorced from her first husband who had deserted her, married Ernst Heink, a secretary in the Government Department at Dresden. Heink, however, soon developed tuberculosis, and finally died.
Later on Schumann-Heink married Paul Schumann, a member of a celebrated operatic family, and a fairly successful actor. Schumann's health was poor. He gradually grew worse and at length died, leaving his wife a widow. Schumann was a Mason; Schumann-Heink a Catholic, but love soon overcame these barriers.
After Schumann's death, the great singer felt much alone with her eight children. It was then she decided to marry, seemingly as a matter of convenience, her third husband, William Rapp, who was her secretary. These two, however, did not remain together so very long.
Schumann-Heink made the United States her home. During the war she had one son, August, in the German army, and her others in the United States forces. She became the greatest contralto singer of her time and is still an active singer. In the summer of 1929 she returned to Bayreuth, the scene of her early triumph, to participate in a great celebration and reunion of musicians. The names of her children are: August, Charlotte, Henry, Hans, Walter, Ferdinand, Marie and George Washington.
96 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
SCHUMANN-HEINK—THE LAST OF THE TITANS.
By Mary Lawton.
"Madame Schumann-Heink is one of the few active survivors of a wonderful musical period and of a group of famous singers—great singers of distinction, whose training and whose association with an equally important group of musicians and conductors seem to set them apart from the singers before and after them. In telling her story to Mary Lawton, Madame Schumann-Heink includes her memories of many of these celebrated people, as well as the events of her own rich life. Miss Lawton has not only recreated the singer's interviews into an absorbing narrative but has taken great pains to catch the homely idiom in which they were expressed; and, while setting down the incidents in orderly fashion, to convey the full impression of Madame Schumann-Heink's personality.
"The story tells of Schumann-Heink's early privations and struggles, of her first successes, of her experiences in America, of London days, of singing to the soldiers during the War, and of the climax of her fame and her golden jubilee."—Editor's note.
The above quotation gives in a few words the contents of this rather remarkable biography of a great person, but of course it cannot give the charm of the narrative nor can it convey the impression one gets from reading the life of a truly great character. One must read the book to get those impressions. Since this biography appeared in "The Ladies' Home Journal" a few years ago, it is probable that there are a few in every community who have already made the acquaintance of Schumann-Heink. 
GUIDE LESSONS FOR APRIL 97
Libraries and even homes probably still possess the volume of the Journal in which it appeared, hence there is little doubt but that the story is accessible in every ward.
There probably are in every community, too, a few people who have actually seen the great Heink and who have heard her sing. Due to the cleverness of Miss Mary Lawton, this biography reads like an autobiography. We have no third person narrative but a warm, informal story which seems to come from the very lips of the singer. So realistic is it that in places the reader feels that he is not only hearing her talk, but is actually seeing her. This illusion is enhanced by the copious illustrations, which show the Madame during all periods of her life and also many of the great musicians with whom she has associated.
The narrative is simple. It even suggests in its quaint phrasing that Schumann-Heink, though a naturalized American citizen and one to her heart's core, is of foreign birth. The idiom of her own language shines through the English to add charm. Miss Lawton succeeds in keeping herself entirely out of the reader's mind. She, it seems, acts as a wise stenographer and allows the interviewed—Schumann-Heink—to draw her own likeness; and what a likeness it is!
Here we have, to begin with, the daughter of a poor army officer who has scarcely enough to eat, let alone to give his family any sort of training. We behold the child sallow of skin even from youth, and to off-set that handicap with no good features except a pair of dark eyes. We see her as a child, doing childish things until her marvelous voice—even then marvelous—an inheritance probably from her mother—is heard by a sympathetic person who knows when she hears an unusual voice. Then we see the free lessons, followed by the struggle up and up towards a career. We see the disappointments the girl meets, but see shining through them all the heart of a Titan, as she struggles on and on. We come, through reading this book, to know just how much that one slothful servant of the parable might have accomplished with his one talent had he been possessed of the courage of this Austrian girl.
What would many of us have done under the following circumstances: LeBatt, a tenor from the Vienna Opera had heard the child sing through the efforts of Tante Nina Kienzl, the wife of a great composer who lived near the child and who frequently had celebrities call. LeBatt suggested that the child go to Vienna and sing before his director. Ernestine, however, had no money with which to go to Vienna, so she prevailed upon Tante Nina to introduce her to a rich retired officer who lived near by. This
98 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
man heard her sing and afterwards gave her money with which to make the trip.
"Yes, I went to Vienna—to the director—and sang." Madame Schumann-Heink declared, "I sang 'Ah, Mon Fils', and the 'Drinking Song' from 'Lucrezia Borgia'—'the Brindisi', they generally called it—which made me famous in the United States long years after—though at that time I didn't know anything about the United States; didn't know even that there was such a place!"
"Well, I had a good success, but that wasn't enough. The Director (Zauner was his name) listened to me patiently, and then turned to LeBatt, and said, shrugging his shoulders. "Well, what you want? What's all the fuss? Look at her! Mein Gott! With such a face—and such poverty—nothing? What do you want? What do you expect? Gott in Himmel!"
"And then to me, 'No, no my dear child, waving his hands. "Go home quick, and ask your kind friends who helped you to come to Vienna to buy you instead a sewing machine, and learn to be a good dressmaker maybe, or something like that—but a singer—an opera singer! Ach, no! Never—never in this world."
So home I went, heartbroken. Upon her return her father flew into a rage and told her to get back to school and learn to be a school teacher; but her old teacher and her mother still thought otherwise, and so also did Schumann-Heink.
Soon afterward a little Jew named Levi came to Graz to make engagements for singers. He went to Marietta von Leclair. Ernestine's teacher, and told her that the whole Vienna opera company was buzzing over the marvelous voice of the child. "Now I am interested in young singers," said he, "and I telegraphed to the Dresden Royal Opera, and they are willing to pay the expenses and hear her there, and if they find she is what they think, and has talent and voice, they will make a contract with her, I am sure." The teacher hastened over to the home of Ernestine. "Now," she said, "this is the real opportunity! I know positively this child will have a success. It is a sign of God!" The family was upset, for they had no money with which to pay the child's fare even though she was to be reimbursed. Again, however, the money was forthcoming from a friend. Ernestine had her chance and this time she was engaged at 3,600 marks the first year, 4,600 marks the second and 5,000 marks the third year.
"God knows what will happen to you, Tina, you are so young," her father said as she was ready to leave to embark upon her career.
"Well, his fears were useless," Schumann-Heink declares,
GUIDE LESSONS FOR APRIL 99
"Because from the very first, I had one big protection: I was homely * * * * I knew from the beginning how homely I was. But homely or not—nothing mattered then. For at last I have my contract for the Dresden Royal Opera—signed by the King."
The child's troubles were not by any means over, but from that point there was little turning back. She went from one triumph to another, though in between were many periods of despair, during one of which she even contemplated the killing of her children and suicide, because of her extreme poverty. It seems, however, that the gods or fate had decreed that she was to be a great singer, and nothing seemed capable of stopping her after once she set her foot upon the right path. Her greatest triumphs were achieved after she came to this country. Here in America she was acclaimed everywhere; and the little child who in Austria often had insufficient food received as high as $28,000.00 for a single week's engagement. No wonder that she adopted this country and was willing that some of her sons should fight for it in the World War even though one son was on the German side.
Any woman who reads this remarkable volume through will come from it, I feel sure, believing that the struggle is worth while. That it is great to be a great singer, but that it is also great to be a great mother who would, if need be, sacrifice her career or her life for her children. I think some of her closing words are worth repeating here, for fear that some of the sisters will not see them.
"It's a long, long trail—a long way I've come, a rough way in places, but it has been a wonderful life, all told, and I wouldn't have missed an hour of it or changed it for any other; for I've learned something, I hope, in these starving, working, bitter, and golden years. And now that I no longer look with the eager eyes of youth, I see more clearly than ever that one point, the very mainspring of my life, has been the concentration on my art. I never looked to the right or the left, I had simply this one big idea from the beginning—to reach the goal, to fulfill my childhood ambition—to be one of the great contraltos of the world. And, thank God! I've stuck to my point, through thick and thin, through poverty, sickness, and death, from youth to old age—and I've come at last to the top of the little tree that I planted so many, many years ago.
"The value of this to young singers is my only object in telling it all over again. This shall be my parting word—know what you want to do—then do it. Make straight for your goal and go undefeated in spirit to the end. And that, let me tell you, requires some doing—take it from Mother Schumann-Heink—and who should know better than I?"
100 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
"Yes, children, see it through, and perhaps you, too, will come, as I have, to a Golden Jubilee. This is a Golden Jubilee for me, in every sense of the word—as full of touching tributes as my heart is of gratitude. Gratitude!— that's my very last word— gratitude to the American people who have so made my American career! For it is here in America that my happiest years have been spent—it is here in America, please God, that I shall end my days—march on, 'booted and spurred,' as my father used to say, like an old soldier of fortune.
"For how better could one make the grand finale—and ring down the last curtain? Still marching on!"
"That is the great wish of my heart—to die as I've lived—in harness."
One closes the book feeling that here is a woman well worth the knowing, an achievement of which the world may well feel proud.
LESSON IV
Social Service (Fourth Week in April)
LESSON IV—PHYSICAL AND MENTAL DEFECTIVES
In lesson III we considered the extent and causes of physical and mental disease, and discussed the treatment of physical and mental defects operating to produce poverty and demoralization. The present lesson we shall devote to a consideration of (a) the crippled and disabled, (b) the blind and the deaf, and (c) the mentally defective.
A. The Crippled and Disabled.
The Minnesota State Board of Control defines a disabled person as "Any person who by reason of physical defect or deformity, whether congenital or acquired by accident, injury or disease is, or may be expected to be, totally or partially incapacitated for remunerative occupation."
The question arises: How many such persons are there? Statistics on this subject are difficult to secure. In 1916 a house to house canvass in Cleveland revealed the presence of more than 4,000 cripples—a ratio of about six disabled persons to every one thousand inhabitants. A census taken in Massachusetts in 1905 (Queen and Mann, "Social Pathology," Crowell, Page 521) gives "more than 17,000 lame, maimed and deformed persons, —a ratio of 5.7 per thousand of the state's population. The close similarity of the figures from these two studies leads us to feel that an estimate for the entire United States may be based on
GUIDE LESSONS FOR APRIL 101
them, giving for the United States, 660,000 seriously disabled persons. Mr. Dean estimates the number of crippled and disabled in the United States to be over 2,000,000 'of whom 600,000 have been so incapacitated as to be rendered occupationally useless.' "
The causes of physical disability in adults can be determined only approximately. It is estimated (Queen and Mann, 524) "that of 600,000 permanently disabled persons in the United States, 300,000 represent the results of disease, 100,000 of industrial accidents, and 200,000 of other accidents."
For children, there are more accurate data of the causes of physical disability. The following table is furnished by the Spalding School, Chicago.
Diagnosis of Crippled Children In Chicago
Diagnosis Per cent. Infantile paralysis.............................32 Tuberculosis of bone..........................18 Spastic paralysis..............................10 Cardiac defects................................10 Amputations....................................6 Congenital defects.............................6 Osteomyelitis..................................5 Arthritis......................................3 Obstetrical paralysis..........................3 Sleeping sickness..............................1 Accidents......................................6
Types of Service
There are two distinct types of service for crippled and disabled children: one is medical; the other, educational. Medical services vary all the way from the out-patient department of the private general hospital to the highly specialized orthopedic sanitarium, maintained out of public funds. An example of the latter type is the remarkable institution maintained by the State of Iowa, at the State Medical School. During recent years great progress has been made in inventions and adaptations of prosthetic devices, artificial limbs, supports, braces, etc.
In most large cities, schools for crippled children are part of the public-school facilities, as in the Spalding School, Chicago, connected with the Institute for Destitute Crippled Children.
For the care of the crippled and disabled adult a new principle has been introduced in the United States. Following the World War, ex-soldiers and ex-sailors, instead of being pensioned, as in previous wars, were granted subsidies under the war-risk-insurance act. In addition to insurance, disabled soldiers and sailors
102 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
receive compensation, the amount varying with the nature of the injuries and with the number of their dependents. Our government went further and provided vocational rehabilitation and training for disabled veterans. These services are administered through the Veterans' Bureau, the American Red Cross, and the Federal Board for Vocation Education.
The same principles have been applied to the care of adults disabled in industry, so that now more than half the States have what is called civilian rehabilitation laws, which provide (a) insurance, (b) disability compensation, and (c) vocational re-education.
It is probably safe to conclude that in our own country, at least, society is dealing much more intelligently with the crippled and disabled than it has ever done before; but, many possibilities lie in the field of prevention.
B. The Blind And The Deaf.
In 1920 the United States census reported 52,500 blind persons in the United States, approximately 500 per 1,000,000 of the population. Of these 30,000 were male, and 22,500 were female. Only 10,000 of the blind were under the age of twenty-five. Most of these persons are greatly handicapped. It is probably safe to say that the great majority of the adult blind are not self-supporting. On the other hand, large numbers are employed and become partially self-supporting in broom-making, chair-caning, piano-tuning, basket-weaving, etc; and many blind persons are employed as news-dealers, clerks, salesmen.
The causes of blindness are interesting. In the case of 35,000 blind from whom data are available in the census, "two-fifths reported specific affections of the eye, such as cataract, glaucoma, atrophy of the optic nerve, ophthalmia neonatorum, and trachoma. One-sixth reported their blindness to be due to such general diseases as measles, meningitis and scarlet fever. Another one-sixth reported the cause of their blindness to be accidents from explosives, firearms, falls, etc. Finally, there were about one-fourth whose reports as to causation were indefinite or inaccurate. These included the blind who stated that their condition was congenital (not otherwise specified) that it was due to neuralgia, sore eyes, etc. From the first to the fifty-fourth year, external injury is the most frequent cause of blindness. From the fifth to the thirty-fourth year it produces more than one-fourth of all blindness, but from fifty-five on, cataract is the leading cause. Atrophy of the optic nerve gradually increased in frequency up to middle life, after which it continues as the second most important causal factor." (Queen and Mann, 552).
GUIDE LESSONS FOR APRIL 103
Cared For By States
Every State in the Union has one or more state boarding schools for the blind, furnishing systematic instruction in the fundamental school subjects and in vocational subjects. In most of the large school systems, provision is also made for the education and training of blind children. A number of states have gone so far as to provide special pensions for blind adults.
In addition to the facilities provided out of public funds, many private agencies support adult homes for the blind, workshops for the blind, special schools, home instruction, vocational education, libraries, bureaus of information, "light-houses."
The blind constitute perhaps the oldest and most permanent group of the physically handicapped, and while more social and public welfare work is done for them than for any other group of the disadvantaged, it is also true that a great deal has yet to be done on the preventive side. Social work and social workers could well afford to concentrate their energies on the causes of blindness.
Deafness, while a serious handicap, is not so disabling as blindness; yet the last census gives the number of deaf persons in the United States as 45,000, most of whom were over ten years of age. Approximately one-third of this number are persons able to speak, and about one-half are able to read lips. Four-fifths use the sign language, and an equal number employ finger-spelling. The great majority can write; the point being that practically all deaf persons are able to communicate.
Causes and Cures of Deafness
Deafness, of course, does not carry with it the economic disadvantage that blindness involves; most deaf persons being self-supporting.
One of the striking things about deafness is that about two-fifths of the deaf are born so handicapped. It is well known that certain types of deafness are hereditary, yet it must not be assumed that all cases of congenital deafness appearing in infancy are due to heredity. As a matter of fact, among the chief causes of deafness are scarlet fever, meningitis, brain fever, measles and typhoid.
Most states have provided systems of care for the deaf almost parallel to the facilities set up for the blind, boarding schools, special classes in the public schools, etc. Private agencies, supported out of private funds, are doing all sorts of helpful things for the deaf—research, job-finding, education of public opinion, etc.
What was said of blindness might be said with equal truth of deafness: the greatest effort yet remains to be exerted on the
104 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
side of prevention. Here again we find that the diseases of childhood, if intelligently controlled and prevented, would greatly reduce the amount of blindness and deafness. Intelligent parents can no longer take the position that whooping cough, scarlet fever, measles, are diseases inevitable in childhood and the sooner their children have them "and get it over with," the better.
The advent of the radio, particularly through the use of the earphone, has contributed greatly to the increased happiness of many partially deaf persons.
C. Mental Defectives.
Feeblemindedness is to be clearly distinguished from insanity; the latter is a mental disease; the former, a mental defect. Says the British Royal Commission: "A feebleminded person is one who is capable of earning a living under favorable circumstances, but is incapable, from mental defect existing from birth, or from an early age, (a) of competing on equal terms with his normal fellows; or (b) of managing himself and his affairs with ordinary prudence."
Psychologically, mental deficiency is sometimes described as a condition of arrested development, limiting the individual to a mental capacity not exceeding that of twelve-year-old normal children.
Most authorities agree that the percentage of feeblemindedness ranges from one-half of one per cent to three per cent of the population. Taking the smaller figure, this means that we have in the United States over 500,000 mental defectives; and, in Utah, a total of 2,500, 1,700 of whom would probably be children of school age, i. e., under fifteen years. Only the low-grade defectives need permanent care in state institutions. Higher grade defectives can and should be dealt with in the public schools.
While it is true that most feeblemindedness is the result of defective inheritance, it is also true that a large amount of mental deficiency is congenital, the direct result of alcoholism, tuberculosis, or syphilis, in the parents. Conditions acting before birth, during birth, and after birth can produce feeblemindedness. Such things as abnormal conditions of the mother during pregnancy, injuries to the fetus, abnormalities of labor, premature birth, head injuries, toxic conditions, convulsions, nutritional disturbances, are all well known causes of feeblemindedness that is not hereditary.
Treatment of the Feeble-Minded
Not much can be done medically and surgically for mental deficiency, although limited success has been achieved by means of what is popularly called "gland" treatment. Following are
GUIDE LESSONS FOR APRIL 105
principles generally accepted as the basis of a community's program for the control of feeblemindedness:
1. Identification.
2. Registration.
3. Special education in the public schools followed by community supervision, for the high-grade defective.
4. Segregation in a separate state school for the low-grade defective.
5. Segregation in a separate state institution for the defective delinquent.
Many states, during the last generation, have tried sterilization as a preventive measure against feeblemindedness. In most states where sterilization laws have been passed, however, this form of control is anything but successful. On the other hand, California, for instance—where the great majority of all sterilizations have been performed—seems to have achieved considerable success in the matter.
Questions For The Further Stimulation of Thought.
1. How many crippled and disabled persons are there in your community? How do they get along financially? What occupations do they follow?
2. Do you know of cases of poverty and family disorganization due to physical disability? How might social work meet this situation?
3. What sort of vocations and leisure-time activities are pursued by the blind in your community?
4. What do your own state laws provide regarding the education and training of blind children in the public schools?
5. Are the schools in your city, county, or district equipped with special classes for the education of blind, deaf, and crippled children? Why not?
6. What do your own state laws provide for the rehabilitation of workmen injured in industry?
7. Have you ever noticed that deaf people are inclined to be a little more irritable, sensitive, and suspicious than the blind? How do you account for this fact?
8. What provision has your community made for the education and training of high grade feebleminded children in your public schools?
9. What are the arguments for or against sterilization of mental defectives?
10. How intelligent is your community in the control of those children's diseases which sometimes result in physical deformity, blindness, deafness, and even feeblemindedness?
Books for the Family
By Lais V. Hales.
THE CHARM OF A WELL-MANNERED HOME
By Helen Ekin Starrett.
Most young couples start with a dream of an ideal home. But they fail to accept the conditions necessary to the realization of this ideal, such as infinite patience, constant love, confidence, devotion, unselfishness, willingness to spend and be spent in the service of each other. "Nowhere are beautiful manners so beautiful as in the home"; and no higher aim can be set before any young couple than the building of an ideal home and family.
The girls of today are not well prepared for the responsibilities of wifehood. In them is a lack of physical and mental stamina, a lack of spirit of steady industry, of definite aim, of responsibility. The fault lies mainly with the mothers and the times in which these girls live. In most homes there is overpressure on the mother, which prevents her from giving the right amount of time to training her daughters. Again, too many things are pressed upon the attention of the young girls—too many studies, too many diversions, too much going about, too much of seeing people. To make up for these serious deficiencies, the young wife of today must, above all things, "be guided by a high sense of duty, and by a sincere, unselfish determination to do her share in the work of building a home."
Housekeeping and homekeeping are two very different things. There are times when the mother may make housekeeping secondary but homemaking, never. To proportion the two properly will require patience and wisdom.
Some of the things that will help are early rising, intelligent preparation of meals, an active superintendence of the duties of the home "which most of all dignify young wifehood." She must early realize that the cares of the home, in all their multiplicity and wearisomeness of detail, will devolve chiefly upon her. She must have the patience to avoid bickerings and quarrels, which utterly destroy the dignity of the home.
The mother is the heart of the home. The atmosphere of the home is determined largely by the mother. She it is who will decide upon the character of the friends who shall visit the home. The spiritual plane upon which she lives will regulate her influence and measure her power in moulding the character of her
BOOK FOR THE FAMILY 107
children. She must constantly keep in mind that the most effective training for children is the training of example. She must be happy, kind, patient, humble, unselfish, if she wants her children to possess these virtues. She must remember and be strengthened by the thought that the confining home duties and cares occupy only a passing period of her life. She must know that she is practicing an art—"incomparably the highest of all arts,—the moulding of human character. A kingdom in the hearts of her children, it is worth any mother's toil and care and weariness to win."
"Even this shall pass away," is a comforting, useful household maxim. The young mother should be as happy as she can in the busy care-crowded days, remembering that all annoyances will pass away. She would miss one of her troublesome little noise-makers from among the flock—
"The mother in the sunshine sits Besides the cottage wall; And softly, while she knits and knits, The gathering tears down fall; The little hindering thing is gone, And undisturbed she may knit on."
She must exercise wisdom in dividing her time sanely among the unending demands of home life. The higher must never be sacrificed to the lower. A good mother must realize the relative importance of things. Her first duty is to be cheerful, healthy, patient, and loving; and all work that tends to prevent her from fulfilling this duty is comparatively unimportant, being better left undone.
Scolding, in its effect on family life, is like "throwing sand into a delicate machine; it causes all parts to grate upon each other; it does no good, but only evil and that continually." To choose the happy medium and golden mean in everything should be the study of every sensible young wife and mother. The comfort dispenser in the home is usually a woman. Comfort and repose go hand in hand. The desire to adorn and beautify the home is one of the highest and best instincts of the human heart. Order, neatness, system, tidiness, are the first elements of household decoration. Home is, first of all, for use and comfort. A window is to look out of, and a chair to sit in; and anything that gives other than an impression of permanence, consistent with the use for which it is intended and of having an "excuse for being," is poor taste. In this business of establishing a "well-mannered home," happy is that wife and mother who finds a friend and companion in her mother or mother-in-law. Half the cares and troubles of married life and of rearing a family may be lifted by suchj kindly, loving, and sympathizing companionship as the latter may 108 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE give. Where she shines supreme is in the care of little children. No house that has a baby in it is complete without a grandma; and happy beyond worlds is that baby, and happy is that young mother, who possesses one. She is the one member of the family who can do more to make household affairs run smoothly than any other, for she knows all the ins and outs of housekeeping and homemaking." These and many other helpful and sincerely beautiful thoughts are contained in Helen Ekin Starrett's delightful little book, "The Charm Of a Well-Mannered Home." Mrs. Starrett lived the mother-life that she expounds in this book; her book, therefore, is sincere, and free from any didactic quality. It contains much of the "inspiring influence" of its author, whose whole life was one of love and unselfishness. It is distinctly a gentle book but its effect is powerful and stimulating. For every member of the family there is real help in this little volume. Although it is addressed primarily to the mother, it discusses problems that concern the father and the children. One critic has said it is a book "for both men and women to read, mark, learn, and inwardly digest." Prosperity: An Answer to Hope As a topic of the day, no one can doubt the popularity of the word "Prosperity." The word is on the tongues and in the minds of millions daily. Some dispute its existence. Others assert it. The word prosperity has an interesting fact in its history. Fundamentally, from its origin, the word means "an answer to hope." An effective popular definition of prosperity could perhaps be phrased: "Prosperity is that condition of economic affairs which the people earnestly hope will come to pass." This origin of the word prosperity is borne out by Webster's New International Dictionary, which traces the word to the Latin prefix "pro," meaning "according to," plus the first four letters of the verb "sperare," meaning to hope. Is your 1929 job good enough for 1930? If you want to make more money in 1930 than you did last year—if you are serious about getting ahead, we may be able to help you. Many young people who have been working, come back here to school for a few months to learn the fundamentals of business. Our Employment Department then cooperates with them in finding a better position where their business training can be capitalized. Don't struggle along in the same old rut this year. Get the facts about this simple and easy avenue to a bigger job and better pay. Send in your name today for complete details. No obligation. L. D. S. BUSINESS COLLEGE SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH. Address................And he took it down, and wrapped it in linen and laid it in a sepulchre that was hewn in stone." —Luke 23:53. Thus did Joseph of Arimathea care for the body of Christ. From the earliest records we find Mausoleum entombment being used by the wealthy and aristocratic families. Today this preferred type of burial can be afforded by everyone—space in Sunset Mausoleum is less expensive than desirable ground burial.. Mausoleum burial is not cremation. In this "Cathedral of Peace" each casket, with its precious remains contained therein, as if in sleep, rests in its own pure white sanitary vault or crypt, hermetically sealed, and faced with beautiful imported marble. Space may now be reserved. " SUNSET MAUSOLEUM Corner of Twenty-third East and Thirteenth South Office—1404 Deseret Bank Building Phone Wasatch 3414 Salt Lake City, Utah When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine eo a "YOU CAN'T GO WRONG" THAT'S WHY WE SAY "Buy Blue Pine Food Products" and if for any reason your purchase is not entirely satisfactory, go to your Grocer and he will refund your money. Scowcroit's BLUE PINE FOOD PRODUCTS RELIEF SOCIETY Books of Study for the 1930 LITERARY LESSONS These Books Are Now Available A Son of the Middle Bordev............$1.00 The Lost Commander...................$ 3.00 Joaquin Miller $1.75 Schumann-Heink (A new and cheaper edition)..........-- 2.50 Life and Letters of Emily Dickinson 5.00 Postpaid If Money Accompanies Order Order Now Deseret Book Company 44. Kast on So. Temple 5 Seven ¥ Times » Champion of the World Sent to you on Free Trial Eureka Vacuum Cleaner Co. 177 E. 3rd So. St., Salt Lake City When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine P-Ws Mountain Grown \SEEDS "TREES | Are Hardier The Flowers, Vege. Tables, Fruits, and Ornamental Shrubs and Trees, you will want are fully deseribed in P-W's Seed and Nursery Book. It tells how, what and where. Be sure today to— Write for Free Jeed and Nursery Book. PORTER-WALTON CO. Jeed and Nursery Specialists SALT LAKE CITY - UTAH Save This Coupon It will be accepted same as 50c in cash on your first order selected from our Catalog amounting to over $2.50. PORTER-WALTON CO., Salt Lake City (Void after March 15, 1930) Temple and Burial Clothes COMPLETE SUITS FOR MEN AND WOMEN Variety of Grades and Prices Prompt and Careful Attention To Mail—Telephone—Telegraph Orders. Open Daily, 9 a.m.—5 p. m. General Board Relief Society Phone Wasatch 3286 - 29 Bishop's Building Salt Lake City, Utah Complete Printing and Binding Service Se eee ee OFFICE wrwyw RULING AND AND BANK WW BOOK FORMS BINDING SPECIAL ATTENTION TO MAIL ORDERS We offer special prices on binding Church Magazines. These volumes should be preserved as valuable additions to your library.— Write us about them. The Deseret News Press 29 Richards Street Salt Lake City When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine Relief Society Women--- Attention | After sixteen years of service to the people, the BURIAL CLOTHES DEPARTMENT of the Relief Society takes this opportunity of expressing appreciation to you for your co-operation and patronage, which has contributed to the growth and stability of the Department. The Presidency of the Church, realizing tle needs of the people, authorized the establishment of the Department in 1913. Since that time it has endeavored to serve the people. The Burial Clothes Department desires to announce that it has on hand a large and complete stock of temple and burial clothing in a variety of materials. There are suits for men and women, and burial clothing for children, including tailored suits for small boys. We give prompt and careful attention to mail, telephone and telegraph orders, and prepay postage and express charges. When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine The Evening Story by the Firelight Utah Gas & Co SOUTH MAIN --- Ogden Gas Company 419 TWENTY: FOURTH ST. --- PHONE 174 THIS is just one of the things which Natural Gas does better than any other fuel! A cozy, cheerful, radiant warmth from a conveniently placed burner! Clean, smokeless and instantly responsive to your needs, Just the thing for the variable temperatures of early spring and fall. And surprisingly economical. For house-heating, a Natural Gas heating plant is ideal. Why not enjoy its supreme comfort NOW! Let us give you an estimate of cost for your home. Most people are truly surprised at the low cost. And for cooking, water-heating, sanitary incineration and automatic refrigeration, this fine, modern fuel has no superior. It is worth looking into. Aluna(GAS The Ideal Fuel Visit any of our display rooms and see for yourself the many new ways in which Natural Gas can add to your enjoyment of living. Wasatch Gas Comp Serving Salt lake City Phone Wasatch #300 Serving Kaysville (Branch Office) Phone Kaysville 200-Layton-Farmington—Bountiful—Centreville—Magna—Toowle—Garfield (Branch Office Phone Murray 583)--MIDVALE -Utah Gas &Coke Co 45 South Main—Phone Wasatch 1300 Serving Salt Lake City Ogden Gas Company 414 Twenty-Fourth ST-Phone 174 Serving Ogden  A BENEFICIAL GUARANTEE No one can read the future—No one can tell how long you will be able to support your family. Can and Will Guarantee to Complete an Estate Savings Fund Even Though You Die Tomorrow A BETTER OR MORE SECURE FORM OF INVESTMENT "CANNOT BE FOUND THAN A BENEFICIAL POLICY WHERE YOU GET  Participating Insurance  At Low Non-Participating Rates  All Beneficial Policyholders Share in Our Net Earnings Beneficial Life Insurance Co. Home Office, Vermont Building, Salt Lake City, HEBER J. GRANT, President E. T. RALPHS, Gen. Mgr. Any Beneficial Representative Will Give You Full Details When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine  WINTER EXCURSION FARES Via Southern Pacific Lines RETURN BOTH WAYS $50 50 To LOS ANGELES via SAN FRANCISSCO returning direct or route vented $58.00 Proportionately low fares from all other points in UTAH, IDAHO and MONTANA. STOPOVERS ALLOWED AT ALL POINTS. TICKETS ON SALE DAILY FINAL RETURN LIMIT 8 MONTHS For further information CALL, WRITE or PHONE D. R. OWEN, GENERAL AGENT PHONES WAS. 3008—3078 Ride with if PEP-ETHYL YOU will never know what your car. Can do until you use PEP-Ethyl—PEP gasoline with its quick starting and high power features plus the anti-knock quality of Ethyl fluid. I Fill your tank with PEP-Ethyl today. Make sure you ask for PEP-Ethyl. It is made to perform better in mountainous regions and will start your car quicker. PEP-Ethyl is manufactured and guaranteed by the UTAH OIL REFINING COMPANY Salt Lake City ETHYL the GAS with a PUNCH WITH When Buying Mention Relief Society Magasine 41 SO, MAIN ST. SALT LAKE CITY Ask your dealer for the famous Z. C. M. I. Factory-Made MOUNTAINEER OVERALLS For men, youths, boys and children. 9-0z. Copper-Riveted WAIST OVERALLS For men and boys. Wear "em and let 'er buck. Guaranteed for Quality, Fit and Service ALLOVERS and PLAY SUITS for Children When You Come to Conference Don't Fail To Visit Our Beautiful New Store! Cc. G. CONN BAND INSTRUMENTS MAJESTIC AND VICTOR RADIO Mason and Hamlin and Chickering Pianos All Latest Musical Instruments Glen Bros. Music Co. 74 SOUTH WATT When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine L. D. S. GARMENTS WINTER LINE Selected from our extensive line of L. D. 8S. Garments we suggest the followinig numbers of winter wear: No. 1 New style, ribbed lgt. Wgt. Cotton with rayone silk stripe; An excellent Ladies number $1.25 No. 6 Light weight summer garment. Old style or Ladies’ new style .75 High grade rayon triwet. Cotton with rayon cosham silk. For particular people 4.00 silk stripe. No 7 Light wet. New or old style, mercerized silky finish No. 2 Old style, ribbed lgt wgt. Cotton, our standard summer wgt....... 1.25 No, 8 Light weight Spring and summer garment. Men only 1.25 No. 3 Ribbed med. Wgt unbleached cotton. Our double back number 2.25. No. 9 Light weight silk for ladies only new style only 1.50. No 5 Part wool, ribbed unbleached Our best selling wool number 3.00 No 10 Medium wgt silk for men and women, new style only 2.50 In ordering, be sure to specify whether old or new style garments, three-quarter or ankle length legs, short or long sleeves are wanted. Also give bust measure, height and weight to insure perfect fit. Postage prepaid. FACTORY TO YOU—THE ORIGINAL Utah Woolen Mills Briant Stringham, Manager 28 Richards Street One-Half Block South of Temple Gates BUY AT VOGELER'S Gratitude NEW SEEDS Day by day more Food Arriving Regularly Buyers are patronizing VOGELER'S our stores, showing their PURITY SEEDS * "Best by Test" gentile for having 7 Are Tested In Our their community, a fine, GERMINATORS clean O. P. Skaggs System store where the BABY CHICKS highest quality merchandise. Begin to Arrive March First Send Us Your Order
Merchandise can be bought at NOW economy prices. Send for Catalogue
VOGELER SEED CO. 30 West First South Street Salt Lake City Gratitude Day by day ore Food buyers are patronizing our stores, showing their gratitude for having in their community, a fine, clean O.P. Skaggs System store where the highest quality merchandise can be bought at economy prices. O. P. SKAGGS System Stores
When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine
season number.............. 1.20 Number 7................... 1.75
L. D. S. GARMENTS
Good grade, and well made. When ordering, state Size, New or Old Style, and if for man or lady.
147 Spring Needle, Flat Weave..$1.10 208 Light Weight Rib............. 1.35 32 Combed Cotton, Lt. Wt..... 1.50 222 Cotton Rayon Stripes...... 1.65 294 Ladies' New Style, Rayon.. 2.00 302 Ladies' New Style, Rayon.. 2.50 307 Men's New Style, Rayon.... 2.75
Postage prepaid. Sample on request.
258 Double Card. Cot., Med. Wt. 1.95 628 Merc. Lisle, Light Wt......... 2.25 264 Rayon Silk, Fine Quality.. 3.00 748 Unbleached Cot., Hvy. Wt. 2.00 754 Bleached Cot., Hvy. Wt..... 2.25 908 Unbleached Cot., Ex. Hvy. 2.75 1072 Mixed Wool and Cotton...... 4.00
BARTON & CO. Established in Utah 45 Years 142 WEST SOUTH TEMPLE ST. Salt Lake City, Utah
HALL'S CANKER MEDICINE
If you want to prevent canker or sore throat, use Hall's Canker Medicine. If any of your children have canker or sore throat, give them Hall's Canker Medicine. This wonderful medicine is sold by all Druggists.
In Buying Canker Medicine Don't Forget to Ask For HALL'S CANKER MEDICINE
L. D. S. GARMENTS Direct From Factory
You are guaranteed unusual wear and satisfaction from Cutler Garments. Are made from the best long wearing, two combed yarns.
No. 68 Ribbed ex. Light Cotton knee length $.75 No. 68 Old style or new style ¾ or long legs .85 No. 74 Ribbed light wt. Cot................. 1.10 No. 84 Rib. Mercerized Lisle.............. 1.35 No. 76 Ribbed lt. Wt. Lisle................. 1.35 No. 63 Lt. Med. Unbleached Double Back 1.75 No. 64 Ribbed Lt. Med. Cot............... 1.35 No. 62 Ribbed Med. Hvy. Bleached.... 1.70
Fine Wearing Rayon, Elbow and Knee Length........................ 2.35 Long Sleeves and Legs...................... 2.85
No. 61 Ribbed Med. Hvy. Unbleached Double Back.......................... 1.75 No. 56 Ribbed Hvy. Cotton bleached 2.15 No. 55 Ribbed Hvy. Cot., Unbleached Double Back.......................... 2.15 No. 27 Ribbed Med. Wt. 50% Wool 3.35 No. 39 Ribbed Hvy. Wt. 65% Wool 3.85 No. 32 Silk and Wool........................ 4.50
WHITE TEMPLE PANTS 8 oz. Heavy Duck $1.75
SPECIAL MISSIONARY DISCOUNTS
In ordering garments please state if for men or women and if old or new styles are wanted. Also give bust, height and weight.
SPECIAL—When you order three pair of garments at one time we allow you a 15% discount on the third pair.
Cutler's Garments 36 SOUTH MAIN ST.
Postage Prepaid. Marking 15c.
LONG WEARING UNDERWEAR
When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine
Ask for one of our folders describing the different services we offer.
Troy Laundry Hyland 190 Distinctive Work Office 319 S. Main St.
A COMPREHENSIVE HISTORY OF THE CHURCH
A COMPREHENSIVE HISTORY OF THE CHURCH, by B. H. Roberts, spans a century of time—1830 to 1930—and tells in vivid narrative the story of martyrdom, exodus, pioneering, expansion and consolidation. Printed in 6 beautiful Art Craft volumes—off the press soon after April 6, 1930, in a limited edition.
For complete information, call on or write to—
Deseret Book Company 44 East South Temple Salt Lake City, Utah
USE HUSLER'S FLOUR Made in SALT LAKE CITY
When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine
CONTENTS
Frontispiece Portrait of Eliza R. Snow........ 112 Portrait of Zina D. H. Young......... 114 Portrait of Bathsheba W. Smith.. 116 Portrait of Emmeline B. Wells.... 118 Portrait of Clarissa S. Williams....... 120 Portrait of Louise Y. Robison......... 122 Spring is Here....... Bertha M. Rosevear 123 Our President's Visit........ 125 National Council of Women......... 129 Slogans for Women.... 130 Portraits of Our Presidents.......... 130 The New York Biennial.......... 131 Autumn........... Josephine M. Duncan 132 Guide Lessons for May....... 145 Out of My Thorn... Helen Kimball Orgill 146 Notes from the Field........... 150 Some Outstanding Incidents in Joseph Smith's Career........ Carter E. Grant 155 Pictures in the Fire... Julia Collard Baker 156 Self-Reliance.........Lais V. Hales 159 The Quest......... Bertha A. Kleinman 160 Ninety-Four Years Young. J. A. Washburn 162 A Widow's Protective League......... Elizabeth Cannon Porter 163 A March Reverie.........Helen Evans 164 Radio's Debt to Farming.........
Organ of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints
Room 20 Bishop's Bldg. Salt Lake City, Utah
$1.00 a Year—Single Copy, 10c Foreign, $1.25 a Year—15c Single Copy
Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah
Phone Wasatch 3123
VOL. XVII MARCH, 1930 NO. 3
PORTRAIT OF ZINA D. H. YOUNG General President of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints —Painted by John Willard Clawson.
PORTRAIT OF BATHSHEBA W. SMITH General President of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints —Painted by Lee Greene Richards.
PORTRAIT OF LOUISE Y. ROBISON General President of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints —Painted by John Willard Clawson.
Spring is Here
By Bertha M. Rosevear
Spring is here! The robins tell it, Piping forth their notes of praise, How their call awakes the echoes In these balmy days.
Spring is here; The pussy willows, In their soft grey furry coats, Scramble up their stems to listen To the robin's notes.
Spring is here; The earth, responding, Spreads a carpet cool and green, While the brooks and rills go dancing With a happy mien.
Spring is here; The wild flowers waken, Hear the robin's cheery call, Don their gorgeous robes, and hasten To the festival.
Spring is here; The trees and bushes Shake themselves in pure delight, Then in haste they don their garments, Green, and pink, and white.
Spring is here; The robins tell it, Piping forth their notes of praise, While the whole creation answers To their joyous lays.
THE Relief Society Magazine
VOL. XVII MARCH, 1930 NO. 3
Our President's Visit
President Louise Y. Robison has been radiating a good deal of enthusiasm since her return from the Biennial of the National Council of Women held in New York during the month of November. The program of the session, comprehensive and varied in nature, emphasized matters of interest in the home and community, such as education and the moving picture. Sister Robison remained after the session, visiting Relief Societies in the Eastern States Mission. Our one regret in the matter is our sheer inability to express the interest and enthusiasm breathing through the verbal report of the President as she made it to the General Board.
On her way she visited the organizations in Chicago, where she found a large group putting over the lesson work in an especially intelligent manner. From there she went to Cleveland, which brought to her an opportunity to visit Kirtland and behold the Kirtland Temple. The Temple at Kirtland has not gone unnoticed in recent years; its stability and beauty have been written of by American architects. The President's account was in harmony with the general opinion. She expressed herself as impressed with the architecture; and counted it a solemn moment in her life to stand near the bronze tablet indicating the place where heavenly messengers had stood.
On her way to the Council meeting the President held a district conference at Palmyra. At the close of the day's meetings, in company with Sister Alice D. Moyle, President of the Eastern States Relief Society and Sister Ruth May Fox, the President of the Young Ladies' Mutual Improvement Association, she visited the Hill Cumorah and the Sacred Grove. The Grove was seen at sunset, its crimson light casting a glamor over the falling leaves of the autumnal season. Nature and the memory of divine visitations mingled to produce a feeling of spiritual exaltation. Yet another factor was soon to enter in and emphasize the occasion. Sister Robison, Sister Moyle, and Sister Fox had gone to the Grove in an automobile; later came a group of missionaries, who had walked over the colorful landscape to that historic spot. It occurred to Sister Robison that a song of praise, often appreciated as we pass in life's journey, could nowhere be more appropriate than in the Grove, where the Father and Son had appeared to the youth who
124 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
was destined to be the leader of modern Latter-day Israel. Sister Moyle told the group of missionaries that Sister Robison would very much like to hear them sing; and this request they met with a rendition of "An Angel From On High."
The Relief Society at Palmyra came in for a just meed of praise. It furnishes a good example of how it is possible for the spirit of an organization to carry over and inspire to noble deeds. In that city of historic interest, there are five Latter-day Saint women who are all provided for, but who felt the urge to look about to see if there were those in the community not so fortunate. One of the women acquainted with school work learned that it was difficult to obtain milk for some of the undernourished children attending the school. To meet the situation the Palmyra Relief Society contributed $5.50, which furnishes milk for one child during the year. Later they remodeled clothing for the children who were not warmly and appropriately clad. When the teachers at the school saw what a splendid job had been done, they gave to the Relief Society their old clothing, to make use of in a similar manner. The attention of the Superintendent of schools was drawn to the situation and he remarked that he wished there were more women in the community who would busy themselves in so worthy a cause.
Sister Robison visited the Smith farm, where she enjoyed greatly the association of Elder Willard Bean and his wife. Through Brother Bean's initiative thirty thousand trees have been planted on the path to and on the Hill Cumorah, which for some time past has presented a rather barren appearance.
Visits were made to the Associations in Philadelphia and Washington, and to Brooklyn, Albany, and Schenectady in New York State; also to Newark and Union City, in New Jersey. It is interesting to know, in relation to the Organizations in New Jersey, that a good many of the members are German Saints, who have immigrated rather recently. Later Hartford, Connecticut, was visited, also Providence, Rhode Island, where one's attention is drawn to the fact that many are of English extraction. Then followed the visit to Boston, where Sister Robison was a guest in the home of her son Rulon Y. Robison, who is on the teaching staff of the New England Conservatory of Music. Here, as in New York City and Brooklyn, the organization is made up partly of students, who are in these centers studying, and the wives of professional men, who are there serving various educational and business institutions.
The courteous attention extended President Robison by the missionaries affected her deeply. She feels that it is only due them that the Magazine should carry her message of deep gratitude for all the kindness shown her while she was away. Everywhere the young missionaries, young ladies as well as young men, gave thoughtful attention to the details that helped to make her visit so thoroughly enjoyable and so truly profitable. Chief among those who served her faithfully and well were the esteemed President of the Mission, Elder James H. Moyle, and his wife who is the President of the Relief Society of the Eastern States Mission.
National Council of Women of the United States—Biennial Meeting
Amy Brown Lyman.
The National Council of Women of the United States held its fifteenth biennial meeting in New York City, November 4-9, 1929. Under the leadership of Dr. Valeria H. Parker, the president, delegates from twenty-four affiliated national organizations assembled, for conference and deliberation.
The Place and The People
In addition to the national officers and delegates the Council was honored by having in attendance Mrs. Anna Garlin Spencer, Honorary Vice President; Mrs. W. E. Sanford, of Hamilton, Canada, Treasurer of the International Council of Women; and Madam Laura Dreyfus-Barney, Vice Convenor of the Peace and Arbitration Committee, of the International Council of Women.
Two Latter-day Saint organizations were represented: Relief Society—President Louise Y. Robison, Mrs. Amy Brown Lyman, Mrs. James H. Moyle, Mrs. Howard R. Driggs; Young Ladies' Mutual Improvement Association — President Ruth May Fox, Miss Elva Moss, Miss Margaret Newman, Mrs. Frances Kirkham.
The meetings were held at the Home Making Center, Grand Central Palace, 480 Lexington Avenue, where the new office of the National Council is located, and where the large auditorium, banquet hall and committee rooms were tendered the Council free of charge. The Home Making Center was established quite recently by the New York State Federation of Women's Clubs, as a laboratory for studying problems related to the home and to family life. It occupies the entire tenth floor of the Grand Central Palace. Here conferences and demonstrations are held to promote activities in which women are interested, and there is on display in the various rooms almost every type of equipment for the home,—displays from forty-three nations, and all but two of the States.
Through the generosity of the New York State Federations of Women's Clubs, the National Council of the United States, early in 1929, was offered office space in the Home Making Center free of charge. The offer was accepted with gratitude and appreciation, and in March 1929, the headquarters of the Council were moved to this location. Mrs. Sarah D. Gregory, who conceived the idea of the Home Making Center, and is now its educational director, had in early life been a close personal friend and admirer of Mrs. May Wright Sewell, one of the founders of the Council, and she was instrumental in bringing about the action which resulted in this offer to the National Council from the New York State Federation. The office of the Council is spacious and attractive, with a full-time secretary in charge. It was a most convenient and home-like place for delegates to meet informally as well as by appointment, to exchange views and gather information regarding the National Council and
126
its affiliated groups, the International Council of Women, and women's organizations generally.
The sessions consisted of two meetings for executive officers, two board meetings, three business meetings for official delegates only, and thirteen general sessions.
Work of the Sessions.
The opening session was the most interesting meeting, with the President's address and the five-minute reports of the Presidents of the Member-Societies. Dr. Parker, reviewed and commented upon President Hoover's proposed White House Conference on Child Welfare, and the cooperation which the Planning Committee of the Conference desires of the National Council; the work being done in the interest of World Peace; the Prohibition movement, also the importance of the full support of the women of the nation in this task; the tariff question, which should be studied by the women of the nation. She spoke against companionate and child marriage, and made a plea for clean family life, a single moral standard, the elimination of the triangle and the substitution of the circle; for marriage based upon good health, good morals, and economic understanding.
The reports of the Presidents indicated that the women of the Council are actively interested in promoting movements for the raising of health, living and working standards. The reports of Presidents Louise Y. Robison and Ruth May Fox were enthusiastically received.
The Forums covered the following subjects: Child Welfare, Education; Music; Motion Pictures; Public Health; Social Hygiene; Permanent Peace; Law Enforcement;
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
Industrial Relations; Radio; Publicity. Many speakers of prominence appeared upon the programs: Dr. Harry A. Overstreet, of the Department of Philosophy of the College of the City of New York; Henry W. Thurston, Head of Child Welfare Department, New York School of Social Work; Don C. Seitz, Editor of the "Outlook"; Dr. C. E. A. Winslow, Professor of Public Health, Yale University; Dr. William F. Snow, General Director, American Social Hygiene Association; Mrs. Laura Puffer Morgan, National Council for Prevention of War.
Chief Topics In Brief
Dr. Overstreet said the central thought in education today is to teach power of mind. The awakened mind will find a way. Students should be judged by their power of mind rather than by the amount of information they possess.
Dr. Seitz criticized the types of pictures shown and the promotion method used by the picture industry for getting people, and especially children, to attend the theatre. He said the picture industry has but one standard—'are the seats filled?' He recommended federal supervision.
Dr. Winslow held that a yearly medical examination should be made possible for everybody; "to cure" is the voice of the past, "to prevent" is the voice of today. He urged a universal study of mental hygiene.
Dr. Andrews, secretary of the American Association for Labor Legislation, stated that the cost of accidents that are borne by industry, should include, in addition to broken machinery, broken bones; also that "slow poison" should be included.
NATIONAL COUNCIL OF WOMEN
Proceedings at the Banquet.
The chief social function of the convention was the International Banquet. At the speaker's table were seated the honored guests, the speakers of the evening, and the officers of the Council. The invocation was pronounced by the Rev. Anna Garlin Spencer. Dr. Parker, toastmistress, presented the speakers: "The International Council of Women"—Madame Laura Dreyfus Barney, Vice-Convenor, Peace and Arbitration Committee, International Council of Women; "The Responsibility of Women in International Affairs"—Mrs. Laura Puffer Morgan, Chairman, Committee of Permanent Peace, National Council of Women: "An Advocacy of Protective Tariff" — Representative Franklin W. Fort of New Jersey; "An Opposition to Protective Tariff—Philip LeBoutillier, President, National Merchants Retail Association; "The Foundation of Creative Peace"—Eduard C. Lindeman, New York School of Social Work; "Our Children—The World's Greatest Asset"—Dr. H. E. Barnard, Director Planning Committee White House Conference on Child Welfare.
Madame Dreyfus-Barney brought greetings from the International Council. Mrs. Morgan spoke in the interest of permanent peace, pointing out how women could promote the movement. Dr. Barnard stated that after three months of preparatory work the President's Planning Committee for the White House Conference of Child Health and Protection is ready to function, and is about to begin the most sweeping study of
127
child welfare that has ever been made.
For Protection of the Child
The whole problem of child health and protection is divided, Dr. Barnard reported, into four sections. The first of these is medical service. Which is to be headed by Dr. Samuel M. Hamill of Philadelphia. His work divided into three subsections: one on pre-natal and maternal care. One on medical care of children, and one on growth and development. The second section, public health service and administration, has Surgeon-general Hugh S. Cummings at its head, and consists of three subsections: public health organizations, communicable disease control, and milk production and control. Section three is to be devoted to education and training, and is headed by Dr. F. J. Kelley. It has six sub-sections: the family and parent education, the infant and pre-school child, the school child, vocational guidance, child labor, recreation and physical education, and special classes. Section four is to devote to the handicapped child, considering prevention, maintenance and protection. At its head is C. C. Carstens, director of the Child Welfare League of America. His work has four subsections: State and local organizations for the handicapped, a study of the physically and mentally deficient, of delinquency, and of the dependent child.
Social and Official
Two other interesting social events were the teas given respectively by Mrs. Otto H. Kahn, and Mrs. James D. Laidlaw, in honor
128
of the board members. It was a rare treat to view the beautiful art collection in the Kahn mansion, at 1100 Fifth Avenue, and to meet the charming wife of the great philanthropist. The Utah delegates were entertained at dinner at the home of President and Mrs. James H. Moyle and at the home of Dr. And Mrs. Howard R. Driggs.
At the last business session the Conference discussed the matter of appointing delegates to the Quinquennial Meeting of the International Council of Women, to be held in Vienna in May 1930. The election of officers for the biennial period 1929-1931 resulted as follows: President — Mrs. Frances P. Parks, of New York City. First Vice-President, Mrs. Theodore J. Louden, Bloomington, Ind. Second Vice-President, Miss Lena M. Phillips, New York City. Third Vice-President, Mrs. Amy Brown Lyman, Salt Lake City, Ut. Fourth Vice-President, Mrs. Sally W. Stewart, Chicago, Ill. Corresponding Secretary, Mrs. Glenn L. Swiggett, Washington, D. C. Recording Secretary, Mrs. Estelle M. Sternberger, New York City. Treasurer, Mrs. Alfred G. Wilson, Detroit, Michigan. Auditor, Dr. M. J. Bush, Philadelphia.
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
Just a bad cold —due to overheating!
A COMMON winter ailment —in homes heated by old- fashioned methods
Four out of ten men and seven out of ten women are incapacitated by colds each winter. School children are similarly affected. Medical experts say over 50 per cent of these cases can be prevented. They point out that most colds are caused by sharply fluctuating temperatures—a common condition in homes heated by old-fashioned methods.
Natural GAS THE IDEAL FUEL offers the remedy
Healthful, automatic Natural Gas heat can be installed in one day. Your home will be kept warm in the meantime. Call, phone or write for full details today.
If it's done with heat, you can do it better with Natural Gas
Utah Gas & Coke Co. Ogden Gas Co. Wasatch Gas Co.
THE RELIEF SOCIETY OF THE CHURCH OF JESUS CHRIST OF LATTER-DAY SAINTS
Motto—Charity Never Faileth
THE GENERAL BOARD
MRS. LOUISE YATES ROBISON - - - President MRS. AMY BROWN LYMAN - - - - - First Counselor MRS. JULIA ALLEMAN CHILD - - - Second Counselor MRS. JULIA A. F. LUND - - General Secretary and Treasurer
Mrs. Emma A. Empey Mrs. Elise B. Alder Miss Sarah M. McLelland Mrs. Inez K. Allen Mrs. Annie Wells Cannon Mrs. Ida P. Beal Mrs. Jennie B. Knight Mrs. Kate M. Barker Mrs. Lalene H. Hart Mrs. Marcia K. Howells Mrs. Lotta Paul Baxter Mrs. Hazel H. Greenwood Mrs. Cora L. Bennion Mrs. Emeline Y. Nebeker Mrs. Amy Whipple Evans Mrs. Ethel Reynolds Smith Mrs. Rosannah C. Irvine Miss Alice Louise Reynolds Mrs. Nettie D. Bradford
Mrs. Lizzie Thomas Edwards, Music Director
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
Editor - - - - - - - - Alice Louise Reynolds Manager - - - - - - - - Louise Y. Robison Assistant Manager - - Amy Brown Lyman
Room 20, Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah
Magazine entered as second-class matter at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah.
VOL. XVII MARCH, 1930 NO. 3
EDITORIAL
A Hundred Years of Progress for Women
One of the things Relief Society workers know best is that when on March 17, 1842, the Prophet Joseph Smith organized the association he said he had turned the key for women. With this anniversary issue, of the Centenary Year, it should be interesting to cast about and see what evidence there is of the fulfillment of this prophecy.
In the first place, through modern invention, wives and mothers have been much relieved in their household duties. The energy of women has been released for better things, provided she chooses these better things. Recently we met a young mother returning home at 10 o'clock in the morning. She said "I am just coming from a class in child nutrition, one of my chief concerns these days."
Nevertheless, in our modern world, home is not the only place where women serve children. Women are found in laboratories, where they are working out nutrition problems for the guidance of mothers in the rearing of their children. In a recent experience we watched a college professor standing over a group of poorly nourished children in one of our educational institutions, giving to them all the advantage of her unusual training, in order that their bodies might be built up, their mental power stimulated, and their joy in life increased.
Another matter of interest is that women have done very conspicuous work out of the home during the century. We select a few examples at random: Susan B. Anthony, headed the movement that resulted in women obtaining their suffrage; Francis Willard prepared the Nation for
130
prohibition; Clara Barton gave America its vision of Red Cross work. Jane Addams is conspicuous as a leader in social work; Charlotte Perkins Gillman is a philosopher; while lady Nancy Astor is a member of the British Parliament, and Ruth Bryan Owen a member of the Congress of the United States. Mabel Walker Willebrandt was Attorney General, and Florence Allen is Judge of the Supreme Court of the State of Ohio. Mary E. Woolley is a College President; while Ella Flagg Young was Superintendent of Schools in Chicago. Such names as Edna St. Vincent
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
Millay and Rachel Crothers give evidence of the ability of women in literature, while the names of Dr. Florence R. Sabin and Dr. Alice Hamilton tell of their achievements in science. Maude Adams, Jane Cowle, Geraldine Farrar, and Mary Garden, proclaim woman's prominence in drama and opera. Our readers will wish to add many names to the list of women in art, and we shall be highly gratified to know that they are indulging in so pleasant a pastime. It is interesting to realize that two of the women mentioned herein were born in Utah.
Portraits of Our Presidents
We are publishing in this issue of the Magazine photographs from oil paintings of the General Presidents of the Relief Society—portraits that adorn the Board room. Three of them have never before appeared in any publication, those of Eliza R. Snow, Zina D. H. Young and Louise Y. Robison. We are exceedingly happy to have these portraits as part of our surroundings, feeling that all women of the Church are proud of the comfortable and beautiful quarters in which our organizations are housed. Many visitors to Utah have expressed astonishment and delight on seeing the Church Office Building, the Presiding Bishop's Office, and the elegant quarters in which the Primary, the Young Ladies' Mutual Improvement Association and the Relief Society are located. Besides being undeniable evidences of our love of art these structures, these paintings, are mute but strong evidence of our power as community builders. All such things are eloquent expressions of the soul's reach; they are outward signs of inward growth.
The New York Biennial
Sifting the items of importance from the enthusiastic report made by our two delegates President Louise Y. Robison and Counselor Amy Brown Lyman to the Biennial of the National Council of Women held in New York, we draw attention first to the address made by President Louise Y. Robison reporting the Relief Society. Her address included a report on the two major activities of the organization: first, the relief work, which is carried on in the main according to the best methods that science has devised and experience revealed. Second, the educational program devoted to courses in religion, literature and social service. Next we
EDITORIAL
turn to the election of the Third Vice President of the National Council, Mrs. Amy Brown Lyman. She has held two other offices in the organization, that of Recording Secretary and Auditor. Mrs. Ruth May Fox, President of the Young Ladies' Mutual Improvement Association, has also served the organization as Auditor. This is the first time a Latter-day Saint woman has held a position in the Presidency of the organization. We are gratified at these developments, and tender sincere congratulations to Mrs. Lyman.
131
Autumn
By Josephine M. Duncan. Second Honorable Mention in the Eliza R. Snow Contest.
A dreamy haze hangs in the air; And like a sunbeam bright and fair, The goldenglow in royal state Raises its head beside the gate; Smiling and basking in the sun And one by one— Wearying of their colors old, The green leaves barter them for gold And crimson hues. The shocks of wheat To make the color scheme complete In regal pride And side by side Now stand in yellow splendor while They glory in fair Autumn's smile. Upon the hill The sheep no longer graze at will. We marvel at the azure sky With fleecy clouds that hasten by. We revel in the beauty of This last sad season that we love, Because we know that soon the pall Of winter will be over all. Then no regrets can change again The drifting snow to gentle rain. And no repinings can recall The asters by the garden wall, Or coax the brilliant golden glow From its warm bed beneath the snow. Then let our hearts with joy be filled For fruitful fields that have been tilled By toil worn hands. And let us praise Our maker for his wondrous ways. Let us thank Him with heads bent low For summer rain and winter snow. And when the Harvest time is past And bleak December comes at last, Then let us lift our hearts and cry A song of praise to God on high.
Guide Lessons for May
LESSON 1
Theology and Testimony (First Week in May)
BOOK OF MORMON
Lesson 8: ALMA THE YOUNGER
This lesson covers the material found in the Book of Mormon between page 251 and page 282. It is a section of the life of one of the most remarkable men that ever lived in the flesh—Alma the Younger, the Saint Paul of the Book of Mormon.
The Matter of this lesson falls naturally into two parts, both of which are extraordinary in their character. Briefly stated these two divisions run as follows:
The Narrative. Leaving Zarahemla after his reorganization of the Church there, Alma betook himself to the Gideonites, who lived on "the east side of the river Sidon" (wherever that was). He preached to these people with such success that he "established the order of the Church" there. Thence he crossed the river and visited the Melekites, with even greater effect, for we are informed that "they were baptized throughout all the land." Leaving the people of Melek and traveling "three days' journey" northward on the same side of Sidon, he arrived at Ammonihah. Here the people resisted his teaching, expelled him from their borders, and, when he returned another way at the command of an angel, imprisoned both him and Amulek, a native convert. Some were converted, however, and left the place but subsequently the entire population of this disreputable land was wiped out by Lamanites and its buildings razed. Ever afterwards it was called the Desolation of Nehors. Alma, with his converts, returned to Zarahemla.
Alma's Teachings
The doctrines taught at these three places may be grouped as follows: First, the ideas revolving about the name of Christ. It must be kept in mind that Alma lived in the last century of the Old Era, before the advent of Jesus. This is why these ideas are remarkable. Alma taught that Jesus would be born in Palestine, that his mother would bear the name of Mary, that he would be called the Son of God, being "conceived by the power of the Holy Ghost," that he would "take upon himself the pains and sicknesses of his people," that he would "loose the bonds of death" and redeem mankind, and that he would visit the Nephites. Second, the ideas that cluster about life here below. These are, in general, faith, repentance, and good works. Not only in the three places mentioned but everywhere he went, he preached against "all lying, and deceivings, and envying, and strifes, and malice, and revilings, and stealing, robbing, plundering, murdering, adultery, and all manner of lasciviousness," and urged a life full of good deeds. Third, the resurrection. This was to be very literal. The spirit and the body were to be reunited in "perfect form," as at present, and we should have "a bright recollection of all our guilt." Moreover, the next life would be dependent on what we thought and did and said in this life, for those who were "filthy" here would be "filthy" there. As through Adam death come to all men, so through Christ eternal life would come to all, and exaltation to those who sought it in faith and righteousness.
GUIDE LESSONS FOR MAY
Outline.
I. Narrative of events.
1. In Gideon a. Where Gideon was. b. Alma's work there. c. Results
2. In Mulek a. Where Mulek was. b. Alma's work there c. Results.
3. In Ammonihah. a. Where the place was. b. Atheistic conditions there c. Alma and Amulek. d. What happened to these two there. e. Results. (1). To those who repented (2). To Zeezrom (3). To the place and people generally.
II. Teachings.
1. Concerning Christ. a. His earthly ministry. b. His birth and character. c. His work for mankind. d. After his resurrection.
2. Concerning this life. a. Principles and ordinances b. Conduct.
133
3. The resurrection. a. Its literalness. b. By whom brought about. c. Conditions of eternal life (1). General salvation (2). Personal salvation.
Observations.
1. Paul and Alma: Careful readers of the Book of Mormon have observed the similarity between the Apostle Paul and Alma, in the details of their lives, their intellect, and their vast energy. Paul's life fell in the first century after Christ, that of Alma in the first century before Christ. Both, apparently, were well educated after the manner of their times, although Paul was most likely the greater scholar. In both lives the crisis was a vision—a vision of an angel to the Nephite and of the risen Lord to the Jew; and in both, this meant a turning in their lives, a change from foes of the Christian ideal into powerful champions of the faith. The American, like the European, suffered shame, violence, and imprisonment for his advocacy of the Cause. Only, in the case of the former his devotion was crowned with translation of the body, and in the latter with martyrdom.
Intellectually Paul and Alma were the outstanding men in Christian and Nephite thought respectively. Of Paul we need say nothing more here, for the world over he is recognized as the most powerful influence, after Jesus himself, in the shaping of the new faith. Our concern here is chiefly with Alma. Alma had a grasp of the truths of revealed religion that is not excelled by that of Paul, and certainly his expression of them is superior to Paul's in clearness. His thought is not as involved in refinements
134 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
and subtleties as that of the Apostle to the Gentiles. But that, maybe, is due to the fact that there were no heathen philosophies at work among the Nephites, with their abstractions and man-made reasonings. And then too the Nephites stuck more closely to the fundamentals of the faith than the Jew—which involves us in fewer theological entanglements.
There is a close resemblance too in the intense missionary zeal of the two men. In a previous lesson we called attention to the strange fact that converts to religious truth, nearly always feel impelled, as by some external force, to see that others are brought "into the light". In no historical character is this spirit more dominant than in the two men we are now considering. Their consuming devotion to the task of disseminating their faith is what is often turned fanaticism by an outsider. In Alma and Paul however it seems to be due partly to an effort to make up for lost time, when they were engaged in opposing what they afterwards advocated, but partly to their native energy.
2. Alma's Times: In the present lesson, we get several glimpses into the social and political conditions during this period. As we already have seen, the Nephites were living under a kind of democracy instead of a monarchy. At the time which we have reached in this lesson they had been living thus for ten years. Their government was of the simplest kind, being a judgeship. There was a chief judge, with what we may term district and local judges, all elected by the people. Misdemeanors on the part of these various officials were provided against by making the lower judges answerable to the chief justice and the chief judge amenable to a court of lesser judges. But a principal defect in the system, it seems, was that these officers were paid, not a stipulated salary, but an amount in proportion to the time they put in. And so it happened sometimes, as at Ammonihah, that a corrupt judge would increase his income by "stirring up the people to riotings and all manner of disturbances." Thus it was that Amulek could truthfully say to the people of his native city, "The foundation of the destruction of this people is beginning to be laid by the unrighteousness of your lawyers and your judges."
For the Nephites had lawyers as well as judges. One of these was Zeezrom. And if we may judge the rest of the legal lights among the Nephites by this man, they were a shrewd lot, with their eye open to the main chance. Zeezrom was not only a sharp inquisitor, as his questioning of Alma and Amulek shows, but he was not above both bribery and deception. At least he tried these on this occasion. It happened however that he was caught himself in the trap he had laid for the prophets.
It is in this lesson also that we obtain most of our information about the monetary system of the Nephites. The historian tells us the relative, but not the absolute, values of the coins they used. Gold and silver seem to have been the only metals used for coins. Until the times of the Judges the standard of "reckoning and measure" changed "according to the minds and the circumstances of the people in every generation," till the time of Mosiah, when these were permanently established, Elder George Reynolds
135
GUIDE LESSONS FOR MAY
was of the opinion that the names of these coins "were identical with or derived from, those of familiar persons or places." And that may easily be the case, for with the Nephites proper names, especially of persons, appear to have been the starting point of many things. Their cities and "lands" derived their names, for the most part, from the names of the first settler of consequence there.
Also we gather from the material in this lesson and other lessons that the Nephites had jails, arresting officials, criminals, freedom of speech and action up to a given point. And then too they had, especially at such places as Ammonihah, evil-minded men who played upon the masses and used them to attain their own purposes in politics and private life. All of which goes to show that human nature is at bottom much the same in one place as another, in one age of the world as another.
3. Zeezrom and Amulek: That Nephite society abounded in minor interesting characters is evident from the rather accidental appearance of Zeezrom and Amulek in the narrative. For we must never forget that the purpose of all the writers of the Book of Mormon was not to give a complete, even though brief, history of its peoples but rather to outline God's dealings with the Nephites and Jaredites.
Zeezrom was a lawyer—and a sharp one. If it were not for his questioning Alma and Amulek on the occasion of their visit to Ammonihah, we might never have known that the Nephites had lawyers. At the core Zeezrom was a good man, notwithstanding his attempt at deception and bribery on this occasion.
135
He may have thought at first that he was doing his people a service in "exposing" the preachers, Alma and Amulek. But when his purpose was detected, he saw the light, and altered his conduct accordingly. His extreme mental anguish later, when he imagined that his actions had led to the probable death of the two men, also shows that his natural disposition was good.
Amulek was one of Ammonihah's rich men. We are not told how he became such except that it was by his "industry." It is interesting to know that he was a lineal descendant of Nephi—of which he appears to have been proud. Also he was "a man of no small reputation" in his community, as he himself tells his fellow townsmen. This reputation may have been due to his wealth or to his family, or to both. At all events, he seems to have been a man of some character, to judge by his manner of address. He charges himself with having neglected to avail himself of the opportunity to become familiar with the Lord's "mysteries and marvelous power." But if so, it does not take him long to make up for these lost opportunities, for under the teaching of Alma, he learns very rapidly. And the fine courage he displays in his preaching matches Alma's own. He is a good example of the minor prophet among the Nephites.
Questions.
1. Give the story part of this lesson.
2. Tell what it says about. A. Christ. B. What we are to do here and now. C. The resurrection.
3. Who was Zeezrom? Amulek?
136
4. Where were these places with respect to the river Sidon; Gideon, Melek, Ammonihah?
5. Why is Alma called the Paul of the Book of Mormon.
6. What does the phrase "my women" mean to you in Alma Chapter 10, verse 11?
7. What are the political and social conditions of this period?
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
8. What happened to Ammonihah?
References
Book of Mormon, pages 251-282. Reynolds's "Dictionary of the Book of Mormon," under Alma, Ammonihah, Zeezrom, Amulek. Evans's "Message and Characters of the Book of Mormon," pages 168-177.
LESSON 2
Work and Business
TEACHERS' TOPICS (Second Week in May)
Courtesy
Courtesy is the heir-loom of civilization. As far back as the days of knighthood there were prevailing courtesies which have come down to us. The knights raised their visors in acknowledgment of friends even as our gentlemen of today raise their hats in courteous recognition of friends and acquaintances. 2. Courtesy is consideration for others, that is: 1. Careful thoughtfulness of others. 2. The-will to do for others the things you would have others do for you. 3. The will to say to others the pleasant, courteous thing you would have others say to you. 4. Forgetfulness of self. 3. 'What some noted people have thought of courtesy. Confucius, the Chinese sage, considered courtesy a requisite of virtue. Virtue in itself was not enough without politeness. He "saw courtesies as coming from the heart," maintaining that "when they are practiced with all the heart a moral elevation ensues." W. E. Gladstone said to his countrymen, "Let us respect the ancient manners, and recollect that if the true soul of chivalry has died among us, with it all that is good in society has died." Lord Chesterfield in one of the famous "Letters to His Son" said, "Moral virtues are the foundation of society in general, and of friendship in particular; but attentions, manners, and graces both adorn and strengthen them." Samuel Smiles writes, "A man's manner, to a certain extent, indicates his character. It is the external exponent of his inner nature." "Manners are not idle, but the fruit of noble nature and of loyal mind." —Tennyson. "A beautiful behavior is better than a beautiful form; it gives a higher pleasure than statues and pictures; it is the finest of the fine arts."—Emerson, GUIDE LESSONS FOR MAY "Manners are often too much neglected; they are most important to men, no less than to women— Life is too short to get over a bad manner; besides, manners are the shadows of virtues."—Rev. Sidney Smuth. 4, Some well known examples of courtesy. 1. The pleasant, cheery, short visit to the sick room, or the bouquet of flowers. 2. The glass of jelly, the unexpected dinner; the magazine or book to the kept-in. 3. All of the acts of neighborliness in times of trouble or sorrow, where self is in the background. 4. Behavior on the street, sidewalk, or public places. A. The low tone of voice—the quiet laugh. Avoid the "loud laugh that speaks the vacant mind." b. Avoid blocking traffic. C. Keeping in line in purchasing tickets, in getting or sending mail; at voting places. D. Not jostling in a crowd nor elbowing one's way through. (Get through by courteous apologies for necessary haste. ) e. Carrying umbrellas so as not to annoy others. (Scraping the feet in walking is considered boorish.) f. Applauding without stamping or whistling. G. Eating or chewing where others are not participating is discourteous and rude. H. A gentleman offering his seat to a lady, or a younger petson to an older is still considered an act of courteSy, 137 5. Courtesy a mark of culture. 1. Courtesies are the rules of the cultural life and must be followed if we would play the game. 2. The old courtesies or manners were based upon the Christian principles of unselfishness. 3. Money or position is not a prerequisite for gentle manners but rather, "that instinctive yearning of mankind for a system of life regulated by good taste, high intelligence, and sound affections." 4, In this age of worship of the "Golden Calf," almost anything can be bought and sold; but even as the veneers are detected from the real polished woods, so insincere manners lack the genuineness which make the best society. "The best society is not a fellowship of the wealthy nor does it seek to exclude those who are not of exalted birth; it is an association of gentle-folk, in which good form in speech, charm of manner, knowledge of social pleasantness, and instinctive consideration for the feelings of others, are the credentials by which society the world over recognizes its chosen members. 6. The span of Courtesy.. Parents and children. Brothers and sisters. Friends, loved ones, and acquaintances. Employers and Employees. The ward members and the officers. The governed and the governor. The President and his people. The King and his subjects. Even as "mercy becomes the throned monarch better than his crown" so courtesy exalts all who practice it with full purpose of heart. We why DO) SD 138 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE LESSON 3 Literature (Third Week in May) SCHUMANN-HEINK The Last of the Titans. The biography of Madam Schumann-Heink, by Mary Lawton, is more than a biography of a single woman—it is, like all good biographies, a biography of her times as well. And what a biography it really is! Across the pages of the book walk some of the greatest figures of the past half century. Not only do we catch glimpses of the great musicians of her time with whom the singer was on intimate terms, but in addition we behold the Kaiser, King Edward of England, Theodore Roosevelt, Woodrow Wilson, William Howard Taft, and other statesmen who have had much to do with the shifting policies of the world. These great characters, of course, do not appear exactly as they are. Each is seen through Madam Schumann-Heink's eyes; therefore, we not only see them as she saw them, but through them we see other sides of her that might not have been revealed in any other manner. One of the publicists of the book company has this to say: "Mary Lawton has not only told the story of this great career with captivating charm, but she has given us, as well, rare and amusing anecdotes of other notables of the time. A brilliant panorama! The rich and the poor, the great and the small, kings and queens, singers, composers, violinists and pianists, writers and painters, the butcher, the baker, the candle-stick maker—one and all —Schumann-Heink runs the gamut! From the fat old grocery woman who demanded a dance in exchange for a piece of cheese— to the Emperor who bestowed a decoration! From the poor ropemaker's little boy who brings her a glass of Jamaica ginger for the stomach ache—to Queen Victoria. From the sick, starving baby in the theatre, that she nursed back to life—to the Empress of Germany! And from cleaning monkey cages in a circus for her dinner—to our own President Roosevelt! All these pass before us, one by one, in this amazing human narrative." Besides the numerous notables mentioned in the book, whose pictures are not given, there are the following whose pictures are given or whose likeness, snapshots only however, are presented to the delighted reader. These snaps are all colored by Madam SchumannHeink's humor, her admiration, her reverence, or love. Like the painted portrait of men and women, they reveal the great men and women truly, but in addition, they reveal the painter as well. We see the soul of the - Madam in each one. I have taken the trouble to page the photograph or the written picture of twenty-five of these famous people. It is by belief that an excellent lesson in musical and political history can be had from going over the most important of these. In most cases where the photograph of the person is given, there will be found on nearby pages Madam GUIDE LESSONS FOR MAY Schumann-Heink's word portraits of the individual so deftly caught and recorded by Mary Lawton. (I am using the order used by the book company in a four page leaflet concerning the book, which they issued at the time of its publication ) A Gallery of Notables Lilli: Lehmann, p. 178; Cosima Wagner, p. 261; Enrico Caruso, 298; Hans Von Bulow, 78; Pol Plancon, 82; Lillian Nordica, 215: Marie Wilt, 233; Amelia Materna, 231; Edouard De Reska, 239; Jean De Reska, 241; Paul Schumann, 119; Marcella Sembrich, 292; Hans Richter, 319; Richard Strauss, 323; Johann Brahms, 355; Gustave Mahler, 359; Richard Wagner, 364; Anton Rubenstein, 379; President 'Wilson; President Taft, 284; King Edward VII, 247-48. Empress Frederick; President Roosevelt, 279 and 286; Maurice Grau, 137; and William Jennings Bryan. That is an imposing list. Few people ever have the opportunity of coming in contact with so many great ones, yet this is but a partial list of those mentioned in the book; and the book itself contains, of course, only a partial list of those who have crossed the path of this great woman. In her account of these acquaintanceships, one catches a glimpse of the fine, humble spirit of the Madam. He sees her praising not only her friends but her rivals; he sees her standing respectfully in the presence of the President of the United States in the face of his request that she sit; he sees her admiration, her gratitude. From these glimpses he surely gets some idea of why common soldiers dared call her the greatest contralto of her time and one of the greatest of all time and a 139 prima donna who has sung before kings and presidents, Mother Schumann-Heink. During the class it would be well in those wards where there are portable Victrolas to have played some of Schumann-Heink's records. Where it is impossible to secure the services of a Victrola, local singers, contraltos, preferably, might be induced to sing some of the songs which she especially loved. Some of the simple songs mentioned in the book upon the pages recorded here are: "The Rosary," p. 324; "The Lord Is Mindful Of His Own," p 329; "Silent Night," "La Paloma," p. 327; and "The Lost Chord." Her reaction to American jazz and prohibition can be found on pages 332-339, Her attitude toward the home is given succinctly: "The fact is—say what you will to excuse it, about the high cost of living—women today don't want a home. Now, every man does want and expect a home when he marries. That is what he marries for—a home and children. Let the women look to it that a happy home life exists, for that is what keeps the nation up. And here is something else—and you needn't laugh at me—but cooking is one of the main contributions to a happy home. I'll bet that no man will laugh at this (if any man ever reads it!) You may call me old-fashioned; well, if that is oldfashioned, then thank God. I am!" The following articles which deal with Madam Schumann-Heink may be available to some of the wards: "Schumann-Heink, The Last of The Titans'"—Good Housekeeping, 84: 16-19 (This is the book as it appeared in magazine form.) "Why I Live In California," by W. F. Minor, Sunset, October '28; "Lesson of Madam Schumann-Heink for 140 Rising Stars'—Literary Digest, Jan. 8, 1927. "Marion Tully and Older"—Nation, March 24, 1926; Portrait 'Erd's Farewell"—Literary Digest, March 23, 1929; "He. Roic Figure", O, G. Villard—Nation, 128, p. 401-02, April 3, 1929; "Opera's Favorite" —- Commonwealth, 10-166, June 12, 1929; and as another view of Mary Lawton's ability as a biographer of the reporter type, "A Lifetime With Mark Twain," by Mary Lawton, a book published by Harcourt, Brace, and Company, New York. Questions and Problems 1. Some one -has said, "Miss Lawton has preserved the homely idiom and the delightful broken English in telling this story of Schumann-Heink." Do you like that or not? Give your reasons? 2. The same person said, "Mary Lawton has given us far more than RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE a biography, for she has accomplished a miracle, and has deftly pinned the famous singer to the printed page where SchumannHeink herself seems actually to live and talk for us." What device did Mary Lawton use to accomplish this result? Do you believe the statement to be true? 3. In what ways do Madam Schumann-Heink's remarks about other people reveal her own soul? Does that apply to us also when we speak of others? 4, Why do these characters which throng the pages of the book not appear as they actually are? Can any characters so revealed by any human being appear as they are? Is that fact a limitation of the biographer? 5. In reality, would you call this a biography or an autobiography? Why? LESSON 4 Social Service (Fourth Week in May) Lesson 5—CRIME AND DELINQUENCY In this lesson we propose to deal with crime and delinquency, one of the most important branches of social and public welfare work. The materials presented here do not, of course, do justice to the subject. Class leaders, stake supervisors and others will therefore do well to consult any of the standard works on the subject which might be available in their local libraries. Two of the most reliable books on the subject are the following: Gillin, J. L., Crimminology and Penology (Century, 1926). Burt, Cyril, The Young Deliyquent (Appleton, 1925). 1. The Nature and Extent of Crime. Accurate data regarding the nature and extent of crime are practically impossible to get. In the first place, not all of the crime that is committed is reported to the police. Furthermore, the crimes which are reported are rarely ever tabulated for the public's use. GUIDE LESSONS FOR MAY 'We present in the following tables, three sorts of data regarding crime and delinquency. Table 1, is taken from the U. S. Census Burreau's report of Prisoners for 1923. Table 1. 141 (Published by the Government Printing Office, 1926). It shows the offenses for which persons were committed to local and state prisons during the year 1923. Number of Persons Committed to Prisons in the United States during the year 1923; for Specified Offenses. OFFENSE Number committed. Total 357,493 Drunkenness 91,367 Disorderly Conduct 53,359 Violating liquor laws 39,340 Vagrancy 28,030 Larceny 27,141 Assault 12,606 Violating traffic laws..... 11,493 Violating City ordinances 10,116 Burglary 8,574 Violating drug laws 7,103 Carrying concealed weapons 5,642 Fornication and prostitution 5,114 Fraud 4,766 Forgery 4,093 Homicide 3,906 Gambling 4,035 Robbery | 3,584 Malicious mischief and trespassing 3,703 Non-support or neglect of family 3,660 Pi? A a 2,149 All other classified offenses 17,193 Unclassified and unknown.. 10,519 The following table, Table No. 2, is compiled from the records of the Salt Lake Police Department, and is furnished through the courtesy of the Sociology Department of the University of Utah. The data show the number of arrests rather than— as in Table No. 1—the number of persons committed to prisons. Table 2. Number and percent distribution of arrests made by the Salt Lake City Police Department during five year period, 1924 to 1928 inclusive. Offense Violating Traffic or Motor Vehicle Laws Number Per Cent. 28,129 53.2 Vagrancy (2) 8,604 16.3 - Drunkenness..... 4,164 7.9 Violating Liquor Laws 2,931 5.5 Disorderly Conduct 1,535 2.9 Gambling 1,376 2.6 Sex Offenses (Except Rape) (3) 1,283 2.4 | Larceny (4) 750 1.4 Violating Municipal Ordinances (5) 693 1.3 Assault (6) 589 1.1 Burglary' 212 0.4 Trespassing 190 0.3 Robbery 108 0.2 Nonsupport or neglect of family 87 0.2 142 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Keeping Gambling House 83 02 Carrying Weapons 70 0.1 Abusive Language 70 0.1 Forgery 63 0.1 Destroying Property 44 (1) Resisting or Interfering with Officer 32 (1) Homicide 27 (1) Rape 23 (1) Violating Drug Laws, 22 (1) Held for other Dep'ts of Justice (7) 1,223 2.3 All Others (8) 527 1.0 TOTAL 52,835 100.0 (1) Less than one tenth of one per cent. (2) Such, for example, as begging, suspicion and vagrancy. (3) Such, for example, as soliciting, resorting, adultery, —— keeping house of illfame, indecent exposure, bigamy, pandering, securing and transporting women for immoral purposes, etc. (4) Such, for example, as grand and petit larceny, embezzlement, bad checks, receiving stolen property, shop lifting, etc. (5) Such, for example, as the following ordinances: license, pool, closing, sidewalk, cigarette, smoke, health, dog, hotel, humane, "keeping lookout,"' etc. (6) Such, for example, as simple assault, assault and battery, attempted murder, fighting, wife beating, battery, assault with deadly weapon, etc. (7) For example, Juvenile court, sheriff's office, U. S. Government, state industrial school, ete. (S) Such, for example, ag arson, demented, commitment, witness, insulting women, etc. Another type of statistics of deshows the nature and extent of julinquency is illustrated in Table No. Venile delinquency in a typically ur- 3, taken from the Survey of Boys ban community. And Girls in Salt Lake City, which Table No, 3, Number and percent distribution according to offense and sex of "out-Court" cases, Salt Lake Juvenile delinquents in Juvenile Court during the five-year period May 4, 1923, to May 4, 1928. Offense Boys Girls Number Per Cent. Number Per Cent. TOTAL 3783 100.0 490 100.0 Larceny 1585 41.9 54 11.0 Malicious Mischief 814 25 21 4.3 Truancy 444 11.7 125 25:5 Incorrigibility 322 8.5 202 41.2 VEGAS nner ence cence sennnneneneen 122 3.2 3 0.6 Burglary 91 2.4 1 0.2 Drunkenness 62 1.6 6 1.3 Immorality 59 1,5 70 14.2 Smoking: 58 1.5 1 0.3 Violation of Traffic Ordinances.................. 44 1.2 Forgery 10 BZ All Other Offenses 172 4.5 7 1.4 Copies of this survey may be secured from the Rotary Club. The Business and Professional Women's Club or fram the = of Utah Bookstore (from the latter place $1.10 post paid). II. The Cause of Crime and —— Like many other social problems law—holds that crime is the "perdifficult of solution, the question: verse expression of a free will," the 'What is the cause of delinquency?" result of "an abandoned and a mahas been answered most often in lignant heart." Modern psychology single—track terms. The classical has, of course, greatly upset this notion—still explicit in the criminal view. Then there was Lombroso GUIDE LESSONS FOR MAY and his followers who held that all criminals are throw-backs, so to speak, to a primitive type of human being; that criminality is hereditary, and so forth. Following the scientific exposure of this fallacy came another view—also fallacious—that delinquents are generally feebleminded. Then the disciples of Karl Marx, the apostle of socialism, have insisted that crime is primarily the result of economic conditions. This view is equally objectionable because it underestimates all of the other known causes of crime. Within recent years, scientific studies have proved conclusively that crime is due to no one cause. Crime is rather a uniform consequent of many different antecedents. Crime is a symptom, so to speak, and like a high temperature in human illness, for example, it can be associated with and the result of many different underlying causes. The following quotations talen from the conclusians of a careful scholar who used scientific methods 143 in his study of large numbers of delinquents, illustrates the best and most reliable view of the matter (Burt, The Young Delinquent, P. 577—): "On an average, therefore, each delinquent child is the product of nine or ten subversive circumstances, one as a rule preponderating and all conspiring to draw him into crime." All of which suggests that progress in the prevention of crime and delinquency will be achieved only when society is able and willing to deal with a variety of known, specific causes. That is to say, crime and delinquency can not be dealt with intelligently en bloc, any more than disease can be effectively treated or prevented en bloc. Just as there is no one universal panacea or palliative for all disease, neither is there one universal cause or treatment for crime and delinquency. In English-speaking countries, the treatment of adult offenders ranges all the way from the death III. The Treatment of Adult offenders penalty to probation. 'Specifically, 6ur penal system comprises: capital punishment, imprisonment, the fine, probation and parole. Thirty-six American States retain 'the death penalty, chiefly as a_ means of punishing (?) the murderer or murderess. This dubious form of treatment is a vestigial carry-over from the Roman lex talionis, "an eye for an eye; a tooth for a tooth"; a law which was presumably superseded by Christ's law of love. A critical examination of the matter will convince one that the facts and the weight of argument are decidedly against this inhuman form of treatment.. Imprisonment in one form or another — penitentiary, reformatory, jail, house of correction, penal form, etc.—constitutes the core of our penal system, in this country, at least. It is felt that to isolate the offender, at hard labor for a shorter or a longer period, will not only deter him and others from crime, but will also reform him. The effects of the prison system are hard to measure, and it is very doubtful if there is as much deterrence or reformation affected, as is popularly believed. The tragic, not to say outrageous prison riots of 1929—notably at Auburn, New York, and Canyon City, Colorado—suggest that there is something radically wrong with our prison system in this country. According to the U. S. Census Bureau Report of Prisoners, 1923, 144 it is unbelievably true that 47.4% of all persons committed to prison during 1923, were sentenced "for non-payment of fine." In _ other words, approximately one-half of all the people who go to prison, are poor persons who cannot pay their fines! Moreover, 23.2% or nearly one-fourth of those who go to jail because of their inability to pay their fines, are persons who are fined less than ten dollars. More than a decade ago, the British government practically solved this probiem by allowing such persons to pay their fines on the installment plan, and to follow their employment and care for their dependents while doing so. Perhaps the most intelligent of all the methods of dealing with offenders—a form which smacks least of vindictive punishment—is probation. It isa form of "suspended sentence" in which the convicted person is placed under the sympathetic care and supervision of a trained IV. The Treatment the subject as fully as it deserves because we have already devoted one full lesson to the subject, in the last ° series of lessons. The outstanding feature of our modern approach to the treatment of juvenile delinquency, is our system of juvenile courts, and the forward-looking laws which support them. The essential idea underlying the system is well stated as follows: "The purpose of the juvenile court is to secure for each child under its jurisdiction such care, guidance and control, preferably in his own home, as will conduce tu the child's welfare and the best interests of the state; and when such child is removed from his own family, to secure for him custody, care and discipline as nearly as possible equivalent to that which should have RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE case-worker called a probation officer for a period varying from a few months to a year. All of the American States use this system for juvenile offenders and about half of them employ it for adults. Massachusetts has gone further than any other community in applying this form of treatment. At the present time the great majority of all her convicted adults are serving "suspended sentences" i. e., are on probation and not in prison. The system is economical as well as humane, - Parole is a similar device, except that it follows a prison term. It enables the prisoner, following good behavior, to serve part of his sentence on the outside. This device is growing in favor for the same reasons that probation commends itself. Trained social-workers, however, are indispensable to the success of both systems. We shall not go into this phase of Juvenile Offenders been given by his parents." (A Standard Juvenile Court Law. National Probation Association Bulletin, 1926.); Juvenile courts, however, do not work well unless they are supplemented by two important services, viz, (1) a behavior clinic for discovering the underlying causes of the child's misbehavior, and (2) a staff of trained probation officers to bring about reformation. To establish juvenile courts without also providing for these collateral services, would be like establishing a hospital, without providing for doctors, nurses, clinicians, etc., to deal with the patients' ailments. Reformatories for juvenile offenders are sometimes very necessary. Children should be committed to these institutions, however, only GUIDE LESSONS FOR MAY when all other devices-especially probation—fail. The public schools can do a great deal to prevent delinquency, especially if equipped to detect and cor- 145 rect the early signs of character malformation. Here again the services of case-workers, psychologists, physicians and counsellors are indispensable. Questions For The Further Stimulation of 'tihought 1. Is it possible to get accurate information regarding the nature and extent of crime in your town or state? Why not? 2. Ask any score of people at random as to their ideas of crime causation. Note the extreme variability in the replies. How do you account for this fact? 3. What accurate information has your local juvenile court furnished your community regarding the specific causes of juvenile delinquency in your locality? 4, Make a list of efforts whict. You think a typical community should make in order to minimize crime and delinquency. 5. What are the arguments for and against putting people to death for crime? 6. To what extent does your state execute murderers? 7. For what reasons do we put people in prison? What are the specific objections to the prison system? 8. To what extent are persons committed to prison in your locality for the non-payment of fine? 9. To what extent is probation for adult offenders employed in your community? 10. To what extent are physicians, psychologists, social workers, probation officers, psychiatric caseworkers, etc., employed by your community for the diagnosis and treatment of criminality and delinquency? Out Of My Thorn By Helen Kimball Orgill I wove my broken blossoms Into a chaplet fair; I treasured every tear drop And strung a necklet rare; And all the heart-felt longing I made into a song— O boon of sweet evolving, From out my thorn and thong! How fully have I tested Deep joy and biting pains; I've found that without losses One never can have gains. Notes from the Field Box ELperR STAKE Box Elder Stake: The above group represents the characters in a one-act play entitled "How the Story Grew," which was presented by the teachers' department of the Third Ward of Brigham City, at their teachers' convention in October. The play is a little entertainment that deals with gossiping and its results. Although it is a humorous sketch and greatly exaggerated, yet it conveyed a message to every sister who attended the meeting, and each one went home with a resolve in her heart that she would not be guilty of spreading gossip about her friends. The story centers around a group of kind hearted and well meaning neighbors. A bit of gossip is thrown their way, and each one, in repeating it to her neighbors, adds enough of her own imagination, so that the truth is lost. It creates a great deal of consternation when the real truth is known. Sharon Stake: Sharon stake is the next youngest stake in the Church, but it is now fully organized, and promises a most successful year's work. Seven © wards were taken from the Utah stake in September, 1929, and the Sharon stake was formed. On November 24, the first stake conference was held with a very gratifying attendance. Mrs, Julia A. F. Lund, General Secretary of the Relief Society was in attendance and gave the address for the General Board. Mrs. Evalina Reed, Utah County nurse, spoke on "Child Health in Our Community." Sharon stake board members, Mrs. Maud W. Partridge, Mrs. Lena Andreason and Mrs. Sarah Shaw also gave short addresses on "Child Health." "The Value of Play for Children and Opportunities in this Community," and "Recreation for Young Folks, Employment, etc." A short NOTES FROM THE FIELD report and greeting was given by the Priesthood President, A. V. Watkins. The music was under the direction of Sister Wells, and a beautiful number was furnished by each of the wards in the stake. The Relief Society Magazine means very much to the sisters of this stake, and they hope to increase their membership and also their subscriptions to the Magazine. Alberta Stake: The Alberta stake board members were very desirous of encouraging effort along the lines of "Better Homes," and "Increased Reading." After due consideration of these topics, they adopted the slogan "We stand for Better Homes Through the Increase of Wholesome, Intelligent Reading." This slogan was beautifully printed upon large sheets of white cardboard. One of these was presented to each organization by the stake representative attending the ward conference. The slogan was hung upon a wall of the ward Relief Society room where it served as a constant reminder. A twenty minute talk was given on the slogan by the stake board member, and a talk on practical suggestions for the betterment of our homes was given by a ward member. As a further inducement it was decided to have a poetry contest, in which the slogan should be the theme and title of the poems. Rules and regulations governing the contest were prepared. It was open to all Relief Society members and was conducted during the months of July and August, and eighteen poems were submitted. In keeping with the slogan, books were 147 selected for the prizes and were awarded at the general session of the stake Priesthood meeting held in September. The prize-winning poems were published in the local newspaper. The stake board feels that these activities have produced the desired results; that more wholesome and intelligent reading is being done by the women of this stake than ever before. The board is pleased also that its member in charge of reading is enthusiastic and has worked out a very fine system for checking and ascertaining the amount and kind of reading done by the members of the stake. This stake is outstanding in the very fine work that has been done through the clinics, some of the largest and most successful ever held in the province of Alberta. The first clinic was held at the School of Agriculture, a provincial government institution, which met the need temporarily. Three hundred and ninety-five physical examinations were made, 104 operations attended to, 391 dental examinations, and a great number of fillings and extractions which were very necessary. There was also an eye specialist present who conducted examinations. The sisters of the Alberta stake feel very. Much encouraged. They are trying to follow the instructions that have been given them along all lines of Relief Society work. Ward conferences have been held, and a very successful bazaar. The reports that come from our northern stakes indicate that the sisters are keenly alive to their work, and appreciate the opportunities that are afforded. Organization and Reorganization Zion Park Stake: It gives the Presidency and General Board of Relief Society great pleasure to welcome into the group of stakes the youngest, Zion Park. The new stake begins its career un-. 148 der very happy auspices, we feel, and we are delighted to welcome to our group of stake presidents, Sister Josephine Sandberg, president; Sister Augusta Wood, first counselor; Sister Mary A. Gubler, second counselor; Sister Mary W. Hall, secretary-treasurer. We congratulate the new stake on its choice of these sisters, and we are very sure that the Relief Society of the Zion Park stake is in very capable hands. Our best wishes are with it, and we are at the service of this stake, as of all others, for anything that we are able to do. Nevada Stake: The office is in receipt of a report of the reorganization of the Nevada stake Relief Society. President Mary E. Horlacher has been released at her own request. Mrs. Louisa C. Johnson has been named as president, with Mrs. Mathilda Swallow and Mrs. Ethel Matheson as her counselors. Sister Horlacher and her associates have been most diligent in their service in Relief Society work, and we feel that they retire from office with the blessing of the entire community.
Tooele Stake: One of the most recent reorganizations which has been reported is that of the Tooele stake. On January 12, 1930, at the regular quarterly conference, Sister Maggie W. Anderson, who has served the Relief Society long and well in the capacity of stake president, was released, and Sister Lillian H. Anderson was sustained as president, with Sister Charlotte Fawson and Sister Mary E. Halladay as her two counselors. We have always felt to congratulate these stakes on their able leadership, and we know that a wise choice has been made to succeed
148 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
the sisters who have served long and ably in the work, and we congratulate the stakes on their present leadership as on their past. The love and best wishes of the General Board go to the retiring and the present officers of both the Nevada and the Tooele stake.
Juarez Stake: Another reorganization this Winter is that of the Juarez stake. Official notification has come to the office that the stake has been reorganized, that Sister Fannie C. Harper was released as president, and Sister Nelle S. Hatch has been chosen to succeed Sister Harper. We feel that a wise choice has been made in naming Sister Hatch to this position of stake president, and we look for the same fine cooperation from the Juarez stake that has always existed with the General Office of the Relief Society, and our very best wishes are extended to Sister Hatch, with the hope that we shall be able to be of service.
As Sister Harper is retiring from the position of Relief Society president, we feel it is quite proper for us to express the sincere appreciation and great admiration we have for her excellent service covering many critical years. During this period there have been scenes that only the most courageous souls could face, but Sister Harper has always been equal to the emergency. Much of her splendid service came from her great faith in the people, and through her untiring efforts to serve their best interests in temporal as well as spiritual matters. We are quite sure that in her retirement from office she still cherishes the desire to be of service to her people, and we know that the love and best wishes of all our sisters accompany her in her retirement.
Who is your "boss" in the evening?
During the working day, your time belongs to your employer. But in the evening you are the "boss" of your own time. How you use it—how you plan your leisure hours — will determine your future success in life.
If you want a bigger salary check— a better position—then watch the evening hours when you are "working for yourself."
Join the group of ambitious people who are attending our night school. Prepare for something better without losing a day from your present job—or a single penny from your pay.
Call at office or mail your name for complete details:
COURSES Stenography Typewriting Bookkeeping Penmanship Arithmetic
L. D. S. Business College Salt Lake City
Some Outstanding Incidents in Joseph Smith's Life
By Carter E. Grant, Principal Jordan Seminary.
Since the young Prophet Joseph was in many respects not unlike the rest of us during his latter teens, he responded naturally enough to the emotions of friendship and love for the fair sex. By the time he had reached his twenty-first birthday, December 23, 1826, he had found his "help-mate" and stood ready for marriage. We are told that Joseph was anxious, so also was Emma, but the parents of the girl, seemingly, were not.
Let us look at Joseph here for a moment. Exceptionally unique, if not singularly unusual, were his first twenty-one years. Joseph records that at the time of his marriage he had seen and conversed with the Father and the Son; had met Moroni on at least eight different occasions; at the Hill Cumorah four times he had viewed the golden records, the breast plate, and the Urim and Thummim; had beheld the "Prince of darkness surrounded by his innumerable train." He then adds, that in less than a year from that time, Moroni had promised to deliver the sacred treasure into his hands.
To get quickly at our theme, let's drop back a year and take a look at Joseph in October, 1825, a few months prior to his twentieth birthday. At this time, there came into the neighborhood of the Smiths, near the Hill Cumorah, Mr. Josiah Stoal from South Bainbridge, New York, advertising for workmen to go with him a hundred miles southeast near Harmony, Pennsylvania, and there aid in re-locating a long-lost silver mine. Stoal's interest in the mine had been aroused by some old documents, stating that in the hills near Harmony, certain Spaniards, in years gone by, had opened a silver mine of great wealth. This fabulous and legendary tale so worked upon the mind of Mr. Stoal that he soon set about securing men for his undertaking. While he journeyed in the vicinity of the Hill Cumorah, there fell upon his ears a strange story regarding the Smiths, and of Joseph in particular. Thus thinking that such a rarely gifted young "Seer" would prove an asset of inestimable value in his project, he soon had the nineteen-year-old Prophet hired, and together they set off toward Pennsylvania. Joseph records that owing to crop failures of this year and to various other financial losses of his parents, Mr. Stoal's offer was an opportunity not to be set aside.
It is hardly to be supposed that Joseph anticipated or promised in any manner whatever the use of his rare gifts to help satisfy Mr. Stoal's craze for riches. Joseph informs us that during these days of prospecting, he was sent to board at the Hale home; there lived Isaac Hale with his wife Elizabeth, five sons and three daughters—catch the Bible names among the sons:— Isaac, Jesse, David, Reuben, and Alva. The girls were Elizabeth, Phoebe and Emma. It seems that some of these older children were married. Of the Hales the mother writes, "They were an intelligent and highly re-
JOSEPH SMITH'S LIFE
spected family—were pleasantly situated, and lived in good style in the town of Harmony, on the Susquehanna River."
Speaking of Joseph's life before he left for Pennsylvania, the mother leaves us this important information: "He continued to receive instructions from the Lord, and we continued to get the children together every evening, for the purpose of listening while he related his experiences. I presume our family presented an aspect as singular as any that ever lived upon the face of the earth—all seated in a circle, father, mother, sons and daughters, and giving the most profound attention to a boy, eighteen years of age." For "We were now confirmed in the opinion that God was about to bring to light something upon which we could stay our minds, or that would give us a more perfect knowledge of the plan of salvation and the redemption of the human family. This caused us greatly to rejoice; the sweetest union and happiness pervaded our house; and tranquility reigned in our midst.
"During our evening conversations, Joseph would occasionally give us some of the most amusing recitals that could be imagined. Would describe the ancient inhabitants of this continent; their dress, mode of traveling, and the animals upon which they rode; their cities, their buildings, with every particular; their mode of warfare; and also their religious worship. This he would do with as much ease, seemingly, as if he had spent his whole life among them." (Era, Vol. 5, p 257.)
Again the mother shows Joseph's early seership: "One day he said that he would give us an example," (of some of the Churchmen's hearts
151
about them), "and that we might set it down as a prophecy; viz:— 'You look at Deacon Jessup', said he, 'and you hear him talk very piously. Well, you think he is a very good man. Now suppose that one of his poor neighbors should owe him the value of a cow, and that this poor man had eight little children; moreover, that he should be taken sick and die, leaving his wife with one cow, but destitute of every other means of supporting herself and family—now I tell you, that Deacon Jessup, religious as he is, would not scruple to take the last cow from the poor widow and orphans, in order to secure the debt, notwithstanding he himself has an abundance of everything.'
"At that time, this seemed impossible to us, yet one year had scarcely expired when we saw Joseph's prophecy literally fulfilled." (Era, Vol. 5, p. 325.)
It was this extraordinary broad-shouldered, light - complexioned, blue-eyed, athletic-six-footer, bearing a native countenance of frankness and stability, that Emma Hale for the first time set her eyes upon, when, one evening late in October 1825, Joseph presented himself at her supper table, coming as a regular boarder. Emma likewise, was no child, being fully matured, charmingly proportioned, possessing jet black locks and dark sparkling eyes —a real woman, having passed her twenty-first birthday by more than three months. Almost immediately something more than friendship began springing up between the two. I dare say that in all the country around about no one could find a pair better mated, both being designated as "naturally good looking."
Let me here digress a moment. "The Prophet," wrote an English traveler in 1843, "is a kind, cheer-
152
ful, sociable companion.—As I saw the Prophet and his brother Hyrum conversing together one day, I thought I beheld two of the greatest men of the nineteenth century." An officer of the United States Artillery, who visited Nauvoo in 1842, exclaimed: "The Smiths are not without talent. Joseph, the chief, is a noble-looking fellow, a Mahomet, every inch of him!" A Congressman writing to his wife says, "He is what the ladies would call a very good-looking man." These statements I quote to inform the reader that not only was Joseph gifted in spiritual faculties, but possessed physical endowments at once congenial and attractive.
Of Emma, the Lord a little later declared (Section 25, D. & C.) "Behold thy sins are forgiven thee, and thou art an ELECT LADY, whom I have called." (The Prophet Joseph, when organizing the Relief Society, at Nauvoo, March 17, 1842, explained that an "Elect Lady" is one who is elected to do a certain work in the Church, and that this revelation was fulfilled when Emma was elected president of that organization. (See D. & C. Commentary, p. 173.)
In the same Revelation, the Lord continues, "And the office of thy calling shall be for a comfort unto my servant Joseph Smith, Jun., thy husband, in his afflictions, with consoling words, in the spirit of meekness.—And thou shalt be ordained under his hand to expound scriptures, and to exhort the Church, according as it shall be given unto thee by my spirit—And verily I say unto thee, thou shalt lay aside the things of this world, and seek for the things of a better. And it shall be given thee, also, to make a selection of sacred hymns, as it shall be given unto thee, which is pleasing
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
unto me, to be had in my Church; for my soul delighteth in the song of the heart, yea the song of the righteous is a prayer unto me, and it shall be answered with a blessing upon their heads." This shows that the Lord was interested also in Emma.
From that first day in October, 1825, when these two young folks stood facing one another until nineteen summers later, when Joseph was shot to death at Carthage, they moved through the persecutions of the Church as "twin-halves, born for each other."
Regarding the fruitless search for the silver mine, Joseph writes, we "continued to work for nearly a month, without success in our undertaking, and finally I prevailed with the old gentleman to cease digging for it."
When the first snows of November, 1825, blanketed the rolling hills of Northern Pennsylvania, Joseph bade adieu to his dark-eyed sweetheart, and traveling forty miles northward into the State of New York, began working for the winter at the Stoal ranch, located some eighty miles from the Hill Cumorah, and a few miles north of Colesville, which was the home of Joseph Knight. It was here in 1830, Emma was baptized, and this was the place also where the Prophet was first arrested and brought into court for trial.
Joseph does not inform us how often during the winter of 1825-26, he traveled the forty-mile trail to Harmony, neither does he mention visiting with his parents during this time. We can suppose, nevertheless, since Joseph seemed to believe that Emma would soon be his, that he related to her in detail his marvelous manifestations regarding the Father and Son; also Moroni and the precious golden records; the
JOSEPH SMITH'S LIFE
Hill Cumorah and other events, ending, no doubt, by stating that the time was drawing near for the restoration of the true Church with its accompanying gifts and blessings. Imagine, however, the young folks' dismay, when Joseph told the story to Emma's parents; for they believed not a word of it. The little town of "Harmony" from that day forward ceased to be "Harmony". The tide of opposition soon began swelling, and although it ebbed at times, none of the family but Emma ever joined the Church.
We learn that during part of the summer of 1826, while Joseph was twenty-years of age, he was back home working with his parents. Of this year the mother writes, that immediately after the threshing was over, Josiah Stoal and Joseph Knight arrived from Colesville, a town seventy-five miles southeast, and purchased Mr. Smith's grain. "Joseph called my husband and myself aside," says sister Smith, "and explained, 'I have been very lonely ever since Alvin died, and I have concluded to get married; and if you have no objections to my uniting myself in marriage with Miss Emma Hale, she would be my choice in preference to any other woman I have seen.' We were pleased with his choice, and not only consented to his marrying her, but requested him to bring her home with him, and live with us."
In contrast to modern methods of speedy love making, Joseph set out on the round-trip of more than two hundred miles with his wagon and team. When once at the Hale home, however, Joseph and his intended were soon laying plans for the future. Imagine their shock when upon placing their desires before Emma's parents, the whole affair was disrupted with the statement
153
that Emma should not marry a "visionary man" nor one who possessed no lands of his own. Although Emma had passed her twenty-second year and reasoned her right to marry her own choice, the parents overruled. Following a scene of tears, the date was postponed and Joseph went north to work at the Stoal ranch.
Two months slowly dragged by, and the Prophet had passed his twenty-first birthday for about three weeks. Again he was at the Hale home. It was finally decided to have the ceremony take place thirty miles north near Colesville, the town where Emma's sister lived. Accordingly, on January 18, 1827, Squire Tarbill performed the marriage north of Colesville twelve or fifteen miles, near the Stoal home or at the Stoal home, Joseph does not say which. He does record, however, "Immediately after my marriage, I left Mr. Stoal's and went to my father's and farmed with them that season", 1827, the year the plates were delivered.
Of the above events the mother continues, "And the next January (1827) Joseph returned with his wife, in good health and fine spirits."
Can you see this mature couple ready to leave the Stoal's ranch, bidding them a fond farewell and then heading their bob-sleigh on a two or three days' journey toward the Hill Cumorah and the Smith home? How their souls must have burned as they looked forward upon the future! Passing westward, Joseph no doubt, pointed out to Emma the various places of interest, saying words like these upon reaching the famous Hill Cumorah: "Think of it Emma! Four times already I have actually visited with Moroni up yonder among those trees, near the
154
top, there on the west side! Eight more months and the angel and I shall meet again. I can hardly realize the fact that then I am actually to receive the plates, the Urim and Thummim, and Breast Plate, hold them in my hands, and bring them home—Oh, how wonderful! Then how we shall work to learn the strange story they possess! Emma, you cannot understand how happy I am to know that you believe all my statements. You see, the angel has also told me repeatedly that the "fulness of the everlasting Gospel" is upon the records, just as it was delivered by the Savior to the ancient inhabitants of this land. I was also informed that I should stand at the head of the restored Church
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
and that the new organization was to be the very "kingdom of God" as seen by Daniel to be 'set up in the last days.' "
Can you see this trusting young woman, nestling among blankets and covers against a cold winter wind, affirming in no mistakable terms her confidence in her husband's testimonies? Vaguely, however, did she dream, of the trying years ahead, or of the cost of becoming a joint-heir with a "dispensation-opener"—a real "Prophet" with "The Kingdom of God at Hand."
Our second chapter will narrate further facts regarding Joseph and Emma with special attention to the Plates and the Hill Cumorah.
[Advertisement for Beneficial Life Insurance]
Pictures in the Fire
By Julia Collard Baker
The curling blue smoke and the crimson flame That up thru' the chimney wind Do nightly for me a picture frame From memories left behind—
Holy visions that hang like pearls apart, As a sweet old face I see, While a song I hear, a prayer in the heart, My Grandmother's song to me:
(Old Melody) "Hush, my babe, lie still and slumber; Holy angels guard thy bed; Heavenly blessings without number Gently falling on thy head."
Once again I see, in the firelight deep, The same low rocking chair And Grandmother hushing a child to sleep, A child with flaxen hair;
As slowly she rocks and softly sings, Through lips so worn and thin, A sweet and holy nursery rhyme— My Grandmother's song and mine:
(Old Melody) "Soft and easy is thy cradle; Coarse and hard thy Savior lay, For his birthplace was a stable, And His softest bed was hay."
And still at twilight they come again, Those dear loved pictures so blest: A homely old room and a blessed refrain, A sunny head lying at rest,
A sunny head prone on a breast so warm; (And dreamily comes the old Rhyme). Pictures of innocence, love and charm— My Grandmother's picture and mine:
(Old Melody) "How much better thou art tended Than the Son of God could be, When from heaven He descended And became a child like thee."
Self-Reliance
DOROTHY CANFIELD FISHER
By Lais V. Hales.
Many mothers shut up in their various homes are doing their unprepared best for their children. Some of them have read books on child psychology. But they are inexperienced, having had no practice in the art of child raising. Too many of them are entirely occupied with the material care of their children and their home. They are hurried and distracted by innumerable details of their occupation. They do not have time to put into practice the sound principles that in theory they know very well. It is for such mothers, at such moments when child psychology is most needed, that Dorothy Canfield Fisher wrote, and re-issued fifteen years later in 1929, her sane, kind, helpful book, Self-Reliance.
The Self-Reliant Child
Modern discoveries in psychology indicate that self-reliance in children is most important. For the child who has not the soul of a parasite it is neither happy, natural, nor congenial to spend long and impressionable years dependent on others. Their self-reliance is bound up with their self-respect. "Many of the disagreeable doings of children, from bragging and bullying to teasing and cringing, from "showing off" to morbid shyness, are found to be their despairing, inexpert attempts to escape from inferiority to equality."
The cultivation of self-reliance is necessary in order that the child may meet life standing alone; in order that he may escape from the "modern dragon of the inferiority complex."
Mrs. Fisher realizes the vast amount of work and time required on the part of parents to help the child toward self-reliance. But nothing, she feels, is more worth while than an honest effort to improve the relations of parents and children. After once taking on the responsibility of children there is no going back. Regret is vain. Parents have burned their bridges behind them. The best program for them is to "do the best they can, and every day to make that best a little better."
The Finest Work
Parents should feel that there is nothing comparable to "the job of bringing up children, for interest, for unexpectedness, for sanity and laughter, and health and joy." A study of child psychology lessens the dangers of being a child. When a mother finds that authors do not agree on problems relating to children, let her summon to her aid her firm independent common sense. Much that Mrs. Fisher writes about, thoughtful parents know, but it is often a good thing to have them set down in a book, for "we are apt to forget in the bewilderment and fatigue and even disheartment which at times inevitably confuses a parent's mind."
The whole trend of American life seems to be away from the old, plainly visible, individual responsibility. The conveniences of modern
SELF-RELIANCE
life our children unthinkingly accept, thus falling into habits of inertia and moral flabbiness—habits that kill self-reliance and initiative.
Teach Self-Reliance
Self-reliance can be taught in early childhood. When your four-year-old is confronted with an obstacle, do not encourage him to come to you for help. Let him solve it himself with your guidance. The healthy infant is straining every nerve to "do for himself." No child is naturally passive." A little boy who at two does not ask to be lifted up on a sofa, but goes and gets a little stool to climb up and down, has set his feet on the path which leads surely and certainly to self-reliance.
As soon after five as possible the child should have some work of the household to do himself. This should be definite, regular work, light, quickly accomplished, and closely related to his own life. Do not pounce spasmodically on him to "run errands" etc. For he likes to feel that when he has done his day's work, his time is for the most part his own. Respect his little dignity, but by all means give him responsibility.
A six-year-old can sew on buttons, complete his toilet, decide which clothes he will wear, care for his play-room, consult the thermometer as a gauge as to the necessity for wraps, etc. Show him the relationship of these tasks to his life and he will work willingly. Steep his early life in an atmosphere colored with energetic, purposeful action. Surround him with raw materials that continually tempt him to do things for himself. "Children should spend as little of their precious youth as possible hankering after ready-made possessions, and as much time as possible creating for
157
themselves the things they desire." Give the child games, sleds, roller-skates, modeling clay, a carpenter's bench, crayons, tools—things either to create with or to use as means to learn dexterity.
Take Trips With Children
Every one of us to some degree is a Robinson Crusoe. The parents should go Robinson Crusoeing together. "Family hikes" branch out many new interests and influences, leading toward the habit of self-reliance and the goodly habit of comradeship between parent and child. A boy whose family "has always been his gang" needs and will seek no other."
Children will have social life whether we like it or not, and the "best we can do is to try to color their social life with wholesomeness, spontaneity, and true light-heartedness, rather than with vanity, competition, self-seeking and egotism." Train them not to depend for their social life on the cumbrous social machinery but to create it themselves. Let their parties be as spontaneous as possible with the children doing the work and arranging. Helplessness and lack of resource and initiative in the matter of pleasant social intercourses are likely to be punished by more or less complete isolation, which makes an adult most unhappy, to say nothing of a child.
Teach Them How To Spend
Children should be taught financial self-reliance and responsibility. Money-spending is quite as important as money-getting. Let them in on the discussion as to the apportioning of the family income. Take them occasionally on well-regulated buying trips. As the child grows older, and has absorbed the family
158
atmosphere of systematic and well-proportioned expenditures, he can be trusted with an allowance of his own. Knowing from such experience that buying is one of the vital processes in modern life, he will never fall into the slip-shod method of hand-to-mouth buying.
Mrs. Fisher feels that allowances large or small will do no good unless the child has before him a daily example for forethought in expenditure. The key to the situation is the budget system. With it, no matter how rigid the economy needs, there are harmony and responsibility. Continued experience with real cash and its exasperating way of vanishing into dentists' bills, etc., is a great inculcator of reasonableness in the matter of money. The one thing to be avoided is the practice of doling out irregular additions to the child's
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
allowances, under pressure from the child.
These and many other important issues in the home are discussed by Mrs. Fisher in Self-Reliance. The latter part of the book is devoted to the relationship between the schools and the parents of the children within the schools. Mrs. Fisher is always sane and helpful. Her decisions are wise, thoughtful, practical. Self-Reliance offers explicit help to all members of the family and can well occupy a prominent place on the shelf of reference books in the home; it is a companion volume to The Charm Of A Well Mannered Home, which we discussed last month. Parents who read these books will realize the stupidity of that oft repeated parental wail— "I can't do anything with my children."
[Advertisement for Utah Power & Light Co.]
The Quest
By Bertha A. Kleinman
The happiness for which your life is quest Is neither here, nor there, nor east, nor west; You cannot find it all the world around, For happiness is never to be found; Who finds himself and his capacity Beneath the false conventionality Of self to Self—to him it shall befall— The reach, the flight, the substance of it all. Who finds his place amid the surge and press, That other lives their fullness shall express, Has found it all, the entity, the best— Lo! Happiness has then encrowned his quest.
Ninety-Four Years Young
By J. A. Washburn
With eyes slightly dimmed but a memory grown brighter with years, Aunt Mary greeted her visitor with her characteristic smile. Though ninety-four years have passed over her head, her slight figure is straight and her step light. Dates and happenings of the distant past were recalled as vividly as those of yesterday.
"I wait upon myself," she said as she busied herself about her clean, snug little cottage at the corner of town. But she does more, for she always has time to take part in the joys and sorrows of both the young and the old. Dispensing cheer and encouragement is as natural to her as for the sun to radiate light.
Mary Shumway Westover was born in Massachusetts, October 27, 1835. At the age of seven she moved with her parents to Nauvoo, Illinois, where she passed through the trying experiences incident to the Mormon persecutions of those days. Though but a slip of a girl, those trying scenes are stamped upon her memory with a clearness that time cannot erase.
To the question, "Do you remember the Prophet Joseph Smith," she answered? "I remember him well. I loved to be in his presence and hear him speak. Once I heard him preach at the funeral of a man (King Follett) who had been killed while working on the temple. The funeral was held in a grove and the rain began coming down in torrents. As the people began moving away to find shelter, the Prophet promised that if they would remain quiet and pray in their hearts, the storm would cease. Then I saw through a break in the trees that the clouds were dividing. The rain stopped falling at the grove though it seemed to be pouring down all around. I knew then, that Joseph Smith was a true prophet."
She laughed as she told this little story which was current in Nauvoo. "It was a time when the Prophet was in hiding from his enemies, and the officers were in town looking for him. They saw a little boy flying a kite and asked him if he knew where Joseph Smith was. The lad replied, 'He went to heaven this morning on Uncle Hyrum's gray mare, and I am sending up his dinner on this kite'."
"I remember the time," she continued, "when father returned from the meeting where Brigham Young was transfigured. Mother and I did not go to meeting that day but father told us all about it. That is not just an idle story. It really happened, for my father saw it and told us at the time.
"I attended one dedicational service at the Nauvoo temple, but I do not remember which room. The thing I remember best about the temple is the twelve large oxen on which the font rested.
"Our wagons were the first to cross the river at the time of the exodus. They were ferried across on a flat boat February 2, 1846. There had been a thaw, and the boat was kept busy until the river froze over again and the wagons could cross on the ice. I remember that in the middle of the stream we had to stop to let a great block of ice pass. After we had crossed there was some rain and a little snow."
The company in which she traveled continued to a point about 100 miles west of Winter Quarters near a Pawnee Indian village. They were instructed by Brigham Young to remain there for the winter if conditions would permit. Thirty-eight of the fifty families moved still farther west, where they spent a hard winter, while her father with the other families returned to Winter Quarters.
"It was a hard winter," she said. "Not so much for the lack of food, but because of the chills. We just shook all winter long. I don't know how father got the money to pay for them, but he went into Missouri and bought a load of supplies, though he shook with chills all the way. We lived in a log cabin with a dirt roof and a dirt floor."
The saddest event of that winter was the death of her mother. She was now left to the care of her foster mother, her father's plural wife. In the spring of 1847 her father, Charles Shumway, and her brother Andrew, were called to go with the pioneer company to the west. Not long after their departure, her little three-year-old sister died.
"Those were trying days," she said as tears filled her eyes. "My mother and sister dead, and father and brother on their way to an unknown land."
"What do you remember best about your experiences while crossing the plains," she was asked?
"Buffaloes," was the answer. "Oceans of them. Sometimes we could see them, it seemed, for miles in all directions. It took only a few minutes to provide fresh meat for the whole company.
"Once our cattle stampeded. The wagons had been arranged in a circle to form a corral. During the night something frightened them and they all made a break for an opening. One of the oxen jumped entirely over a wagon where a girl
161
was sleeping without waking her up."
She crossed the plains in Jedediah M. Grant's company, arriving in Salt Lake City October 12th, 1847. Here she met her father and brother and lived in the fort for two years. Her first school teacher was W. W. Phelps. For pastime she and her friends bathed in the warm springs and gathered berries and segoes.
In 1849 her father was called to Manti and later to Payson, where he operated a saw mill. While living in Manti, Joseph Allen struck an Indian who had tantalized him to the point of desperation. The Indians soon gathered and after a council of war, demanded the lives of two men. The two men selected by them were her father, Charles Shumway, and Darwin Chase. The matter was finally compromised by brother Allen giving up his two oxen. The people all contributed a little and bought him some more.
At Payson, she experienced all the thrills, excitement, and worry of the Walker War. After the war they moved to Big Cottonwood, where she met and married Charles Westover in 1856. Her husband was called to St. George, where he was a veteran threshing machine man in southern Utah almost to the day of his death.
During her residence in the southern part of the state, she lived at Pine Valley two years, Pinto, ten years and Hamblin, eight years. While at Pinto a great flood came and carried away all they had. It was Sunday, and she was alone in the house with Grandma Westover. All at once, she discovered that the house was surrounded with water and the front part of it was soon washed away. They were rescued by two young men who came and carried them to safety.
The town of Hamblin, in those
162
days, was a rather desolate place. One night while she was alone and pondering over conditions, she said aloud to herself, "How long must I remain in this place?" A voice from behind her seemed to say, "Eight years." Sure enough, she lived there just eight years.
In 1889 she moved with her family to Huntington, Emery County,
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
Utah, where she now lives. All her life she has been a faithful, enthusiastic worker in the Relief Society and other organizations of the Church. She is known far and near for her cheerfulness and kindness. To know her is to love her. October the 27th, last, she was ninety-four years old. May she live as long as life seems a pleasure.
A Widow's Protective League
By Elizabeth Cannon Porter
To keep widows from being imposed upon and to educate them in the handling of their finances, is the object of the Widow's Protective League organized in Los Angeles three years ago. Realizing that the weakness of women through the ages has been a lack of organization, it aims to supply a need. The movement is being taken up in other cities and states, and will eventually be national in its scope.
Unscrupulous persons who expect perquisites through dealing with women unused to business responsibilities find the League a check on their operations. Also, by re-financing, it has done much to remove that age-old bugbear of widows— foreclosed mortgages.
A widow who had been injured in a traffic accident found her case being postponed and delayed day after day, with the result that she was nearly fainting on her crutches. The League's Legal Committee, composed of nine women garbed in black and white, attended the trial, succeeded in having the case speeded up, and the woman won her award.
An aged lady who had been traded enough German marks to paper a room in exchange for some perfectly good stock, had the trade reversed through the activity of the League. A prominent business man who had let his notes to a woman become outlawed decided to pay them when the organization took up the matter. He couldn't afford the publicity. It would injure his business reputation.
This Widow's League was instrumental in sending dishonest oil operators to Leavenworth. It led a campaign against loan sharks, reduced usury, investigated a cemetery swindle. Its real estate ramifications are multiple. It investigates the status of bonds and other securities, collect rent, locates people who disappear.
For the education of women it conducted a class in popular law in the evening. One night a month is given to lectures. Among the speakers secured were Georgia Bullock, woman police judge, and Nick Harris, head of a popular detective agency. The latter outlined the career of "Bluebeard" Watson now serving life in the California penitentiary. According to this criminal's confession he had married and victimized thirty-six women. He was finally caught when a "wife" who had let him have $3,600 became suspicious over his frequent absences, and engaged detectives to apprehend him.
The speaker also told the story of the trunk robber. This man had
A WIDOW'S PROTECTIVE LEAGUE
constructed a special trunk in which he had himself hidden and transported to the vaults of a Hollywood Storage Co. His object was to plunder the place and have himself removed, still in the trunk, the next day. He engaged a 17-year-old boy to haul the trunk. They were overheard plotting in a local hotel room with the result that they were arrested. Chandeleria was sent to prison for 7 years. As he had spent 7 years in constructing the ingeniously devised trunk, his wasted effort represented 14 years in all. He might have grown rich in constructive work in that time.
The Widow's Protective League also undertakes reforms in legislation. In Utah a widow can obtain a ten-dollar-a-year rebate on her taxes. In Arizona a widow has $2,500 exempt; that is, she has to pay taxes only on the property over and above that amount. California widows are trying to get a $4,000
163
exemption. Naturally, the large taxpayers and corporations oppose this move.
The colors of the League are black and white. Its insignia is a pin of outspread Egyptian wings— for protection. The applicant pays $5 for her initiation fee and pin. Thereafter she pays $5 a year. This entitles her to free legal advice from the Leagues' Counsel. Where debts are collected by the organization 5% is paid into the treasury for the services.
Women widowed by death or divorce are eligible, but the Widow's Protective League will not handle alimony nor domestic relations cases and thereby probably saves itself a world of trouble.
Lillian Pascal Day, a syndicate writer, inaugurated the movement. The idea grew out of unfortunate experiences of her own widowhood. She is ably assisted by a superb corps of women.
A March Reverie
By Helen Evans
Young March came to me one day; it said: Oh, how I love the world, My frolic and fun are ne'er at an end Till my whole long month is dead.
To the feeble and old I am harsh, they say, For my winds are cold and skies oft grey; But I am youth with a carefree air And I laugh my whole time away.
Fair promise I bring sometimes, to you, Though my nature is fickle indeed; Oft I smile as the sunbeams dance And earth's new lease is built anew.
Radio's Debt to Farming
Whimsically speaking, radio owes a debt to farming. This debt is owed for a word that was borrowed—a word that radio today cannot get along without, a word that is heard daily by anyone who owns a receiving set. That word is "broadcast," or any of its various forms and derivatives.
The word 'broadcast,' as noun, adjective, adverb and verb, was in the dictionary long before the wonders of modern radio were realized. It referred, however chiefly to the sowing of seed in agriculture. As confirmation, consider this definition quoted from the pages of Webster's New International Dictionary, showing the early use of the verb "to broadcast:" "To scatter or sow broadcast; to disseminate widely;" and this definition of the adjective "broadcast:" "Cast or dispersed in all directions, as seed from the hand in sowing; widely diffused."
The definition of the modern practice of radio broadcasting is as follows, showing how the word has extended its meaning to the present specific use: "To send out from a radio transmitting station information, lectures, music, or messages of any kind by radiotelegraph or radiotelephone, for the benefit of an unlimited number of receiving stations."
The Grace of the Roadside Trees
By Bertha A. Kleinman
Let me rear by the side of the road, Where the press of life goes by— Not alone the walls of a fair abode To domicile such as I;
Let me rear a native cathedral aisle, With its arches flung to God, Where the leaves spray over the dusty mile And dapple the roadside sod;
Where feet that seek no hearth of mine May slow to their leisured ease, And hearts may lift to the throne divine For the Grace of the Roadside trees!
FIRST CALL for SPRING PLANTING
"The Sparrow"
By Leah Harrison
Start your planting now! O joyous little sparrow, He sings and shrubs, plants and flowers; if one set out now to give their root systems a chance to get well fixed in the soil by the early season rains. We'll be glad to advise you just which varieties to plant now. Phone us.
PORTER WALTON CO. Salt Lake City
He's happy though he's shivering The happy, live-long day.
It seems that he would scold The people who go grumbling
He feels, if he were human, He'd know a better way.
When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine
"YOU CAN'T GO WRONG"
THAT'S WHY WE SAY
"Buy Blue Pine Food Products"
and if for any reason your purchase is not entirely satisfactory, go to your Grocer and he will refund your money.
Scowcroft's BLUE PINE FOOD PRODUCTS
RELIEF SOCIETY Books of Study for the 1930 LITERARY LESSONS
These Books Are Now Available
A Son of the Middle Border............$1.00 The Lost Commander.................... 3.00 Joaquin Miller........................ 1.75 Schumann-Heink (A new and cheaper edition).................... 2.50 Life and Letters of Emily Dickinson 5.00
Postpaid If Money Accompanies Order
Order Now
Deseret Book Company 44 East on So. Temple
"FOR THE ADORNMENT AND PROTECTION OF ALL SURFACES"
Bennett's PURE PAINTS VARNISHES ENAMELS
Bennett Glass & Paint Co. Salt Lake City
When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine
Sego MILK
Such Delicious Puddings Pies Custards Creams
Rival
At All Grocers
Temple and Burial Clothes
COMPLETE SUITS FOR MEN AND WOMEN
Variety of Grades and Prices Prompt and Careful Attention To Mail—Telephone—Telegraph Orders.
Open Daily, 9 A. M.—5 P. M.
General Board Relief Society Phone Wasatch 3286 29 Bishop's Building Salt Lake City, Utah
Complete Printing and Binding Service
OFFICE RULING AND BANK BOOK FORMS BINDING
SPECIAL ATTENTION TO MAIL ORDERS
We offer special prices on binding Church Magazines. These volumes should be preserved as valuable additions to your library.— Write us about them.
The Deseret News Press 29 Richards Street Salt Lake City
When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine
Relief Society Women--- Attention
After sixteen years of service to the people, the BURIAL CLOTHES DEPARTMENT of the Relief Society takes this opportunity of expressing appreciation to you for your co-operation and patronage, which has contributed to the growth and stability of the Department.
The Presidency of the Church, realizing the needs of the people, authorized the establishment of the Department in 1913. Since that time it has endeavored to serve the people.
The Burial Clothes Department desires to announce that it has on hand a large and complete stock of temple and burial clothing in a variety of materials. There are suits for men and women, and burial clothing for children, including tailored suits for small boys.
We give prompt and careful attention to mail, telephone and telegraph orders, and prepay postage and express charges.
When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine
When YOUR Building BURNS
There's a certain amount of comfort to know that should fire destroy your building tonight that you are covered by fire insurance. Such insurance will indemnify you for the loss incurred and allow you to rebuild without financial hardship. It's worth a good deal to have this protection in these times.
See our agent in your town
UTAH HOME FIRE INSURANCE CO.
Beautify Your Walls
A new profusion of authentic wall paper designs, at a wide range of prices. Use LOWE BROTHERS High Standard Paints, products that emphasize economy through quality.
Wall paper samples and paint color charts free on request.
PAPER HANGERS: YOUR SAMPLE BOOK SETS now ready—call or write!
HEBER J. GRANT & CO. General Agents 20 South Main Street Salt Lake City, Utah
32-35 East First South Salt Lake City
OVER FIVE MILLION DOLLARS IN MORTGAGE INVESTMENTS
On January 1st, 1930, the outstanding mortgages negotiated through our Loan Department were in classification as to ownership approximately as follows:
Purchased by Insurance Companies................$3,000,000 Held by Individual Investors........................ 1,500,000 Sold to Banks and Trust Companies.............. 750,000 Loans unassigned................................. 350,000
Over a 28 year experience in business, no investor, either corporation or individual, has ever been asked to wait for the payment of interest or principal as same has matured. No losses have been sustained by purchasers of our Mortgage Investments.
ASK FOR OUR LIST OF WELL SELECTED MORTGAGES FOR SAFE INVESTMENT NET YIELD 6%
ASHTON-JENKINS COMPANY 32 South Main St. Established 1902 Salt Lake City, Utah
When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine
NEVER BEFORE A Washer With a ONE-PIECE Cast-Aluminum Tub
The NEW MAYTAG
The NEW Maytag gives you a ONE-PIECE, cast-aluminum tub, moulded in Maytag's million dollar aluminum foundry—quality construction that assures permanent beauty and efficiency—keeps water hot for entire washing—holds four gallons more than ordinary washers.
The NEW roller water remover has an enclosed, positive-action, automatic drain. The NEW quiet, lifetime, oil-packed drive and many other notable new features produce new results and greater convenience— Maytag's latest and greatest achievement.
PHONE for a trial washing with the NEW Maytag in your own home. If it doesn't sell itself, don't keep it. Divided payments you'll never miss.
MAYTAG INTERMOUNTAIN CO. Distributors 211 South State Street Salt Lake City, Utah
When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine
VOL. XVII APRIL, 1930 NO. 4
WINTER EXCURSION FARES Via Southern Pacific Lines
TO LOS ANGELES AND RETURN BOTH WAYS $50.50 Via SAN FRANCISCO
To LOS ANGELES via SAN FRANCISCO returning direct or route reversed $58.00
Proportionately low fares from all other points in UTAH, IDAHO and MONTANA.
STOPOVERS ALLOWED AT ALL POINTS. TICKETS ON SALE DAILY FINAL RETURN LIMIT 8 MONTHS
For further information CALL, WRITE or PHONE
D. R. OWEN, GENERAL AGENT 41 SO. MAIN ST. SALT LAKE CITY PHONES WAS. 3008—3078
Ride with PEP-ETHYL
YOU will never know what your car can do until you use PEP-Ethyl—PEP gasoline with its quick starting and high power features plus the anti-knock quality of Ethyl fluid.
Fill your tank with PEP-Ethyl today. Make sure you ask for PEP-Ethyl. It is made to perform better in mountainous regions and will start your car quicker.
PEP-Ethyl is manufactured and guaranteed by the
UTAH OIL REFINING COMPANY Salt Lake City
When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine
Utah's Summer School of Service
With the idea of offering courses desired by the people of the State, in all grades of collegiate work, the UNIVERSITY OF UTAH will again present an outstanding Summer School of Service.
Courses of general interest, as well as many courses of special value to the teachers of the State, will be offered. The well-trained University staff (mostly department heads), will be supplemented by the following carefully chosen distinguished educational specialists:
MISS GRACE L. BEBB, Visiting Teacher, Bureau of Child Welfare, Board of Education, Lincoln, Nebraska.
MRS. RHEA WAHLE CORNELIUS, Assistant Professor in Physical Education, University of Iowa and Iowa State Teachers College.
DR. MARK A. MAY, Professor of Educational Psychology, Yale University; Investigator in the Character Education Inquiry, Teachers' College, Columbia (first week.)
DR. BORIS A. MORKOVIN, Assistant Professor of Sociology, University of Southern California.
DR. BESS V. CUNNINGHAM, Associate Professor of Education, Teachers' College, Columbia University (three weeks.)
DR. HOWARD R. DRIGGS, Head of Department of English Education, New York University (fifth week.)
DR. SUNDER JOSHI, Lecturer and Teacher of Extension Courses, Massachusetts State Department of Education, Division of University Extension.
DR. JULIAN H. STEWARD, Assistant Professor Anthropology, University of Michigan; University of Utah, 1930-31.
DR. JOHN SUNDWALL, Head of Department of Hygiene and Public Health, and Director of Students' Physical Welfare, University of Michigan (two weeks.)
To this list of out-of-state visiting faculty has been added Mary L. Bastow, Instructor in Art, Branch Utah Agricultural College; J. Spencer Cornwall, Supervisor of Music, Salt Lake City; and Heber C. Kimball, Instructor in Stenography and Typewriting, L. D. S. Business College.
Standard Quality Work
The usual high educational standards will be maintained so that all credits will be accepted elsewhere at full value. The broad curriculum will include courses to complete group requirements, teaching majors and minors, courses to meet requirements for teachers' certificates and diplomas. Courses of special interest to people interested in youth and problems concerning youth, will be offered in child development and character education. Recreational leaders and community workers will find ample work of high quality.
Exceptional Advantages for Study are Available in Salt Lake City
One Term of Six Weeks—June 16 to July 23
Complete Summer Catalogue will be Issued in April
UNIVERSITY OF UTAH SALT LAKE CITY
When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine
L. D. S. GARMENTS WINTER LINE
Selected from our extensive line of L. D. S. Garments we suggest the following numbers of winter wear:
No. 1 New style, ribbed light weight. Cotton with rayon silk stripe. An excellent Ladies number..$1.25
No. 2 Old style, ribbed light weight. Cotton, our standard summer weight........... 1.25
No. 3 Ribbed med. weight. Cotton, bleached. Our all season number.............. 1.50
No. 4 Ribbed heavy weight. Unbleached cotton. Our best selling double back number.... 2.25
No. 5 Part wool, ribbed unbleached. Our best selling wool number.... 3.00
No. 6 Light weight summer garment. Old style or Ladies' new style.......... 1.75
No. 7 Light weight. New or old style, mercerized— silky finish ................... 1.75
No. 8 Light weight Spring and Summer garment. Men only 2.25
No. 9 Light weight silk for ladies only, new style only 2.50
No. 10 Medium weight. Silk for men and women, new style only 4.25
In ordering, be sure to specify whether old or new style garments, three-quarter or ankle length legs, short or long sleeves are wanted. Also give bust measure, height and weight to insure perfect fit. Postage prepaid.
FACTORY TO YOU—THE ORIGINAL
Utah Woolen Mills Briant Stringham, Manager 28 Richards Street One-Half Block South of Temple Gates
Going Into Business?
Are you desirous of entering business on your own account? If so, then you are anxious to avoid making a failure. A business should be selected that would afford you much pleasure as well as profit in its operation.
Franchise rights to operate an O. P. SKAGGS SYSTEM food store are being sold to parties who can fill all requirements.
Address: P. O. Box 2, Salt Lake City, Utah
O. P. SKAGGS System Stores
"BUY AT VOGELER'S"
NEW SEEDS Arriving Regularly
VOGELER'S PURITY SEEDS "Best by Test"
Are Tested In Our GERMINATORS
See Our Wonderful BULBS
They Will Make Your FLOWER GARDEN More Beautiful
Send for Catalogue
VOGELER SEED CO. 30 West First South Street Salt Lake City
When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine
L. D. S. GARMENTS
Good grade, and well made. When ordering, state Size, New or Old Style, and if for man or lady.
Postage prepaid. Sample on request.
147 Spring Needle, Flat Weave..$1.10 628 Merc. Lisle, Light Wt......... 2.00 208 Lt. Wt. Rib. Double Card Cot. 1.35 264 Rayon Silk, Fine Quality.. 3.00 32 Combed Cotton, Lt. Wt..... 1.50 748 Unbleached Cot., Hvy. Wt. 2.00 222 Rayon Striped Combed Cot. 1.65 754 Bleached Cot., Hvy. Wt..... 2.25 258 Med. Wt. Rib. Double Card Cot. 1.85 1072 Mixed Wool and Cotton.. 4.00 294 Ladies' New Style, Rayon.. 2.00 302 Ladies' New Style, Rayon.. 2.50 307 Men's New Style, Rayon.... 2.75
BARTON & CO. Established in Utah 45 Years 142 WEST SOUTH TEMPLE ST. Salt Lake City, Utah
HALL'S CANKER MEDICINE
If you want to prevent canker or sore throat, use Hall's Canker Medicine. If any of your children have canker or sore throat, give them Hall's Canker Medicine. This wonderful medicine is sold by all Druggists.
In Buying Canker Medicine Don't Forget to Ask For HALL'S CANKER MEDICINE
L. D. S. GARMENTS Direct From Factory
You are guaranteed unusual wear and satisfaction from Cutler Garments. They are made from the best long wearing, two combed yarns.
No. 68 Ribbed ex. Light Cotton knee Length $.75 No. 68 Old style or new style ¾ or long legs .85 No. 74 Ribbed light wt. Cot................. 1.10 No. 84 Rib. Mercerized Lisle.............. 1.35 No. 76 Ribbed lt. Wt. Lisle................. 1.35 No. 63 Lt. Med. Unbleached Double Back 1.75 No. 64 Ribbed Lt. Med. Cot............... 1.35 No. 62 Ribbed Med. Hvy. Bleached.... 1.70
Fine Wearing Rayon, Elbow and Knee Length........................ 2.35 Long Sleeves and Legs...................... 2.85
No. 61 Ribbed Med. Hvy. Unbleached Double Back.......................... 1.75 No. 56 Ribbed Hvy. Cotton bleached 2.15 No. 55 Ribbed Hvy. Cot., Unbleached Double Back.......................... 2.15 No. 27 Ribbed Med. Wt. 50% Wool 3.35 No. 39 Ribbed Hvy. Wt. 60% Wool 3.85 No. 32 Silk and Wool........................ 4.50
WHITE TEMPLE PANTS 8 oz. Heavy Duck $1.75
SPECIAL MISSIONARY DISCOUNTS
In ordering garments please state if for men or women and if old or new styles are wanted. Also give bust, height and weight.
SPECIAL—When you order three pair of garments at one time we allow you a 15% discount on the third pair.
Cutler's Garments 36 SOUTH MAIN ST.
Postage Prepaid. Marking 15c.
LONG WEARING UNDERWEAR
When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine
Ask for one of our folders describing the different services we offer.
Troy Laundry Hyland 190 Distinctive Work Office 319 S. Main St.
YOUNG WOMEN
A few months' business training in this school prepares you for the position of stenographer, private secretary, bookkeeper.
SHORTHAND BOOKKEEPING ENGLISH SPEEDWRITING MACHINE CALCULATION
Thorough, practical courses. Experienced teachers. Our Employment Department will help to place you in a desirable position when you have finished the course.
Check the subject in which you are interested and return this ad today, with your name and address, for complete details.
L. D. S. Business College Salt Lake City, Utah
When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine
CONTENTS
Frontispiece Portrait of Lucy Mack Smith.... 168 Portrait of Rachel Grant Ivins............ 170 Portrait of Louise Yates Robison........ 172 Portrait of Amy Brown Lyman...... 174 Portrait of Julia Alleman Child........ 176 Portrait of Julia A. F. Lund........ 178 Portrait of Alice Louise Reynolds........ 180 Portrait of Maud May Babcock....... 182 Portrait of Florence Jepperson Madsen.... 184 Portrait of Rhoda Bowen Cook..... 186 Portrait of Martha Hughes Cannon........ 188 Portrait of Jeannette Acord Hyde........ 190 Portrait of Jennie Brimhall Knight....... 192 Portrait of Inez Knight Allen........ 194 A Prayer....... Miriam Walton 195 Our Gallery of Portraits..........Alice Louise Reynolds 198 Editorial—The Book and the Poor........ 199 The Era Notes Our Anniversary...... 199 Our Former President........ 200 Program for 1930 Group Conventions...... 202 Guide Lessons for June..... 216 When It's Almost Blossom Time. Lydia Hall 218 Notes from the Field.....
Organ of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints
Room 20 Bishop's Bldg. Salt Lake City, Utah
$1.00 a Year—Single Copy, 10c Foreign, $1.25 a Year—15c Single Copy
Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah
Phone Wasatch 3123
VOL. XVII. APRIL, 1930 NO. 4
Portrait of Louise Yates Robison President of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints
Mrs. Amy Brown Lyman First Counselor to President Robison. Head of the Social Service Department of the General Board of the Relief Society.
Miss Maud May Babcock Head of Department of Speech, University of Utah, Appointed Professor at University of Utah in 1902. President of Board of Trustees of Utah School for Deaf and Blind 1905 to 1917.
Mrs. Florence Jepperson Madsen Head of Department of Music at Brigham Young University since 1920. Director, Vocal Department, Lasalle Seminary, Boston, 1911-1916, Instructor Chicago Musical College Summer of 1927.
Mrs. Rhoda Bowen Cook Head of the Textile and Clothing Department, School of Home Economics, at Utah State Agricultural College, 1900 to 1915.
Dr. Martha Hughes Cannon First woman to be elected to the Senate of a Legislature in the United States. Held office 1896-1900. Introduced six bills in the Senate of the State of Utah, all of which became law.
Mrs. Jeannette Acord Hyde Collector of Customs at the Port of Hawaii, appointed by President Coolidge, 1925, reappointed by President Hoover, 1929.
Mrs. Jennie Brimhall Knight One of two women who were the first regularly called missionaries from among the unmarried group of Latter-day Saint women. Mrs. Knight served as a missionary in Great Britain from April 2, 1898 until December 9, 1898.
Mrs. Inez Knight Allen Who in company with Mrs. Knight was the other woman first to receive a regular call for a Mission from among the unmarried group of Latter-day Saint women. Mrs. Allen served as a missionary in Great Britain from April 2, 1898 to July 4, 1900.
A PRAYER
Third Poem to Receive Honorable Mention in the Eliza Roxey Snow Poetry Contest
By Miranda Walton
God of the silent stars, teach me their calm That all my petty cares may drift away; Teach me the gold of silence, and of Truth, And take me back when Morning comes, I pray.
Lord of the bluebird's song, give me the joy That comes from living in a world of Thine; Teach me to grasp the beauty of Thy work, And show me how to make that beauty mine.
God of the autumn leaves and rain-bowed trees. God of the harvest moon, and Indian sun, Grant me the dues of labor, and the peace That work can bring, and of a task well done.
God of the frozen snows, give me the hope Thou hast planted in the hearts of Earth and men:— When winter griefs and winds have had their way The Miracle of spring and life will come again.
THE Relief Society Magazine
VOL. XVII APRIL, 1930 NO. 4
Our Gallery of Portraits
Alice Louise Reynolds
We are presenting in this issue of the Magazine a series of photographs of Latter-day Saint women. We wish them to stand as symbols of the achievements of Latter-day Saint women during the one hundred years of Church History now closing.
Latter-day Saint Mothers
First in our gallery of pictures, we place the photograph of Lucy Mack Smith, the mother of our Prophet, the Church founder. Next Mrs. Rachel Ivins Grant, mother of President Heber J. Grant, who is now the President of the Church. We desire that these two women, whose noble example stands out through the years, shall symbolize the glories of motherhood that form part and portion of the homes builded and consecrated by Latter-day Saint women. We wish to say, in modesty and humility, that we believe no better homes have ever come into being than those created by Latter-day Saints. Through Sister Smith and Sister Grant we pay tribute to the motherhood of the Church.
Relief Society Activities
Our next photographs are of people who are in charge of various activities sponsored by the General Board of the Relief Society. First, we present President Louise Y. Robison, who, in addition to discharging the duties of General President, is at the head of the Burial Clothes Department of the General Board. This department has carried on its work in a highly efficient manner. There have been crises making the demand on this department very great, but it has always met its obligations. President Robison is also the business manager of the Magazine.
Welfare Work
Next we present Counselor Amy Brown Lyman, who is at the head of the Welfare Department. Since Mrs. Lyman first began the study of modern social work in Denver, she has kept in close touch with advanced methods. The aim of the department is to adapt these modern methods to the needs and conditions of Latter-day Saints. Its influence has been felt in practically every ward and stake in Zion.
Education
Mrs. Julia A. Child is chairman of the lesson work. This department furnishes work in religious education, literature, and social
196
service. Throughout the years these courses have been pursued with great interest by women all over the Church. They are the important feature of the program at the weekly meetings.
Secretary's Department
At the head of the Secretary's Office is Mrs. Julia A. F. Lund, who must constantly care for a multiplicity of details. The many responsibilities of the Secretary will be partly realized and partly appreciated by the stake and ward secretaries throughout the Church. The Secretary's Office serves the field in detail matters every day of the year. Merely answering letters is a big piece of work.
The Magazine
The Magazine, edited by Miss Alice L. Reynolds, carries the lesson work of the organization into the field, fosters and supports Latter-day Saint ideals and standards, and publishes articles that voice the forward movement of our present life.
Latter-day Saint Women and Education
In the United States women do the major part of the teaching, and in this important work Latter-day Saint women have done their part. We are publishing the portraits of three women who have reached conspicuous places in the three colleges of the State of Utah. The first is Miss Maud May Babcock, who is the first Latter-day Saint woman to head a department at the University of Utah. She is also the first and only Latter-day Saint woman who has been a President of a Board of one of the educational institutions of the State. For many years she was President of the School for the Deaf and Blind. A fact of interest concerning Miss Babcock is that she has always been in competition with men in her position. The head of the department of Dramatic Art is a man in most colleges and universities.
The outstanding assignment made to a woman at the Brigham Young University has fallen to the lot of Mrs. Florence Jepperson Madsen, who is head of the Department of Music. Like Miss Babcock, Mrs. Madsen has been in competition with men, as we usually find a man at the head of the Department of Music in our colleges and universities.
Mrs. Rhoda Bowen Cook has the honor of being the first Latter-day Saint woman to head a department of work at the Utah State Agricultural College. She was head of what is known today as the Textile and Clothing Department in the School of Home Economics.
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
In addition to giving recognition to these women as leaders in the field of education, we wish to draw attention to their respective lines. Miss Babcock represents drama, a line of art that has always been encouraged and fostered by the "Mormon" Church. To all women of the Church who have used this form of art to express the ideality and beauty of life as well as some of its sordid cross-sections, we pay tribute through her. Through Mrs. Florence Madsen, whose beautiful voice has been heard in many places of the United States in the alto part of the "Messiah," we pay tribute
OUR GALLERY OF PORTRAITS
to all the singers of Zion who have added the beauty of their voices to hymns to the sacred words of scripture, and to the compositions of the great masters. Mrs. Cook symbolizes beautiful handcraft work that has adorned the home, the costumes, of wife and children. To all who are skilled in this lovely art we pay tribute through Mrs. Cook. We wish these three women, prominent in educational work in the State of Utah, to stand as symbols for all the work in education done by Latter-day Saint women, wherever they may be; for "Mormon" women are engaged in teaching in many of the States of the Union.
State and Federal Positions
Our next group takes in two women, Mrs. Martha Hughes Cannon, who is the first woman to hold a seat in the Senate of any State Legislature in the United States; she was also the first woman elected to the legislature of the State of Utah. We desire that she shall stand as the symbol of all Latter-day Saint women who have served in State Legislatures since suffrage has been obtained. Next is the portrait of Mrs. Jeannette A. Hyde, who holds the
197
important post of Collector of Customs at the Port of Hawaii, now for a second term. Mrs. Hyde holds this position under the Federal Government. Not many women in the United States hold positions under the Federal Government, consequently we look on Mrs. Hyde as one who has blazed a trail where others may follow.
Our last portraits are of Mrs. Jennie B. Knight and Mrs. Inez K. Allen, who were the first regularly called women missionaries of the Church. Many young unmarried women have been called on missions since that time, but they were first to go into the field, directed in many instances to do much the same sort of work as the Elders. To the ever increasing group of young women who have gone forth as ambassadors of Christ, we tender through Mrs. Knight and Mrs. Allen our gratitude and esteem.
To all Latter-day Saint women who have in any degree served their Church, their Nation, and their God, we dedicate this issue.
The Bathsheba W. Smith Memorial was established February 20, 1924 and became effective January, 1925. Five Temples have had the use of it, which means that ordinance work in the Temple has been done for some three hundred women. There have been one hundred and two girls assisted in their course of study at the Brigham Young University by the Emmeline B. Wells Memorial Loan Fund. A fund first made available in May, 1922.
THE RELIEF SOCIETY OF THE CHURCH OF JESUS CHRIST OF LATTER-DAY SAINTS
Motto—Charity Never Faileth
THE GENERAL BOARD
MRS. LOUISE YATES ROBISON - - - President MRS. AMY BROWN LYMAN - - - - - First Counselor MRS. JULIA ALLEMAN CHILD - - - Second Counselor MRS. JULIA A. F. LUND - - General Secretary and Treasurer
Mrs. Emma A. Empey Mrs. Elise B. Alder Mrs. Cora L. Bennion Mrs. Inez K. Allen Miss Sarah M. McLelland Mrs. Ida P. Beal Mrs. Amy Whipple Evans Mrs. Kate M. Barker Mrs. Annie Wells Cannon Miss Alice Louise Reynolds Mrs. Ethel Reynolds Smith Mrs. Marcia K. Howells Mrs. Jennie B. Knight Mrs. Lotta Paul Baxter Mrs. Rosannah C. Irvine Mrs. Nettie D. Bradford Mrs. Lalene H. Hart Mrs. Hazel H. Greenwood Mrs. Emeline Y. Nebeker
Mrs. Lizzie Thomas Edwards, Music Director
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
Editor - - - - - - - - Alice Louise Reynolds Manager - - - - - - - - Louise Y. Robison Assistant Manager - - Amy Brown Lyman
Room 20, Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah
Magazine entered as second-class matter at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah.
VOL. XVII. APRIL, 1930 NO. 4
EDITORIAL
The Book and the Poor
One of the comforting and really startling facts about the Book of Mormon is its constant and enlightened solicitude for the poor. For instance, Jacob, one of the early prophets, has this to say: "After ye have obtained a hope in Christ, ye shall obtain riches, if ye seek them; and ye will seek them for the intent to do good—to clothe the naked, and to feed the hungry, and to liberate the captive, and administer relief to the sick and the afflicted." (Jac. 2:19.) Later Mosiah makes this illuminating remark: "For the sake of retaining a remission of your sins from day to day, that ye may walk guiltless before God—I would that ye should impart of your substance to the poor, every man according to that which he hath, such as feeding the hungry, clothing the naked, visiting the sick and administering to their relief, both spiritually and temporally, according to their wants. And see that all these things are done in wisdom and order; for it is not requisite that a man should run faster than he has strength." (Mos. 4:26, 27.) To this Alma, in his inimitable way, adds: "And now behold, my beloved brethren, I say unto you, do not suppose that this is all; for after ye have done all these things, if ye turn away the needy, and the naked, and visit not the sick and afflicted, and impart of your substance, if ye have, to those who stand in need—I say unto you, if ye do not any of these things, behold, your prayer is vain, and availeth you nothing and ye are as hypocrites who do deny the faith." (Alma 34:28.) Mormon in his writings makes it clear that God rebuked the people for neglect of the poor—a fact
EDITORIAL
shown in the following passages: "And it was because of the pride of their hearts, because of their exceeding riches, yea, it was because of their oppression to the poor, withholding their food from the hungry, withholding their clothing from the naked." "And I know that ye do walk in the pride of your hearts; and there are none save a few only who do not lift themselves up in the pride of their hearts, unto
199
the wearing of very fine apparel, unto envying, and strifes, and malice, and persecutions, and all manner of iniquities, and your churches, yea, even every one, have become polluted because of the pride of your hearts. For behold, ye do love money, and your substances, and your fine apparel, and the adorning of your churches, more than ye love the poor and the needy, the sick and the afflicted."
The Era Notes Our Anniversary
The Magazine has very great pleasure in recognizing the place given the Relief Society in the March issue of the Improvement Era. In connection with the article stressing the anniversary of the organization of the Society the Era also published cuts of the Presidency on its cover. What we particularly appreciate about this tribute from our sister organization is the spirit of cooperation and good will that dictated it. As the world advances, it begins to understand how futile emphasis on differences may be and how all important is unity. In the main our interest is a common one. For all that the Mutual Improvement Association is striving the Relief Society gives unqualified support. The article in the Era gives abundant evidence of the fact the Mutual Improvement Organization supports whole-heartedly the program of the Relief Society. We thank the Era for heralding to the young people of Zion the great purpose of our organization.
Our Former President
On March 8, Mrs. Clarissa Smith Williams, the former General President of the Latter-day Saints' Relief Society, passed to her reward. On March 11th, services were held in the Assembly Hall at Salt Lake City. The spacious stand and the casket were enveloped in beautiful floral tributes carrying expressions of sympathy and love from Relief Society workers throughout the Church. President Louise Y. Robison represented the General Board at the Services. Her tribute was tender, expressing appreciation for the high qualities of Sister Williams' character. The May issue of the Magazine will publish tributes to President Williams from members of the Board associated with her.
Mrs. Lula Greene Richards, the first Editor of the Woman's Exponent will celebrate her eighty-first birthday on April 8, 1930. We congratulate Sister Richards and are very happy that she is with us to participate in the Centennary Celebration of the Church.
Carbon that is deposited by ordinary oil is gritty, hard, flint-like; it will tear paper; it can scratch brass—wear away steel.
The little carbon that Shell Motor Oil forms is soft, soot-like. Most of it blows away through the exhaust.
Avoid Carbon-Forming Oils —they damage modern motors
Many oils that are otherwise good lubricants have a tendency to form hard carbon when they burn. The carbon they leave is deposited within the motor, causing all manner of troubles.
Shell Motor Oil, a fine new lubricant made by a new process, does not form hard carbon. It forms only a little soft soot that blows away through the exhaust.
SHELL MOTOR OIL
Program for 1930 Group Conventions
I. EXECUTIVE OFFICERS' MEETING (Saturday— half hour meeting preceding Public Meeting. For Stake Presidency and Secretary-treasurer only) Discussion of Local Problems.
II. PUBLIC MEETING (Saturday—two hour meeting)
1. Greetings and Report.................... Stake President
2. The Evil Effects of the Use of Tobacco................. Stake Board Member
3. Musical number.
4. Great Movements Pioneered by Women Since the Organization of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints)................... General Board Member
5. Remarks.
III. STAKE BOARD MEETING (Sunday 8:30 to 9:45 A. M. Stake Officers and Board Members only)
1. Questionnaire.............. General Board Member
2. How to Strengthen the Ward Organization......... General Board Member
IV. STAKE AND LOCAL OFFICERS' MEETING (For Stake Executives and Board Members, Ward Executives, Presiding Priesthood and Bishops.)
1. Report from Ward Presidents.
2. Ward Charity—Details of Administration............. General Board Member
3. Discussion.
RELIEF SOCIETY TWO DAY CONVENTIONS FOR 1930.
Alberta—August 16-17. Bannock—April 26-27. Big Horn—August 30-31. Blaine—May 3-4. Boise—May 31 - June 1. Duchesne—May 10-11. Emery—April 26-27. Garfield—May 3-4. Idaho—May 17-18. Juarez—Sept. 6-7. Kanab—Aug. 30-31. Lethbridge—August 16-17. Lost River—April 19-20. Lyman—April 19-20. Maricopa—Aug. 30-31. Moapa—June 14-15. Nevada—April 19-20. Panguitch—May 17-18. Raft River—May 31 - June 1. Roosevelt—May 10-11. St. George—June 14-15. St. Johns—Aug. 16-17. St. Joseph—Sept. 6-7. San Juan—May 31 - June 1. San Luis—June 14-15. Snowflake—Aug. 23-24. Star Valley—June 14-15. Taylor—Aug. 23-24. Uintah—Aug. 23-24. Union—June 14-15. Wayne—April 19-20. Young—June 14-15. Zion Park—June 14-15.
Guide Lessons For June
LESSON I
Theology and Testimony (First Week in June)
AMMON AND HIS BRETHREN
The Outline.
I. Conversion.
1. Who Ammon and his associates were.
2. Their opposition to Church.
3. Heavenly manifestation to them.
4. Result to Alma and Ammon.
5. Purpose to preach to Lamanites. A. Why this mission chosen. B. Consultation with king. C. Promises of the Lord to him.
II. The Journey.
1. Dangers involved.
2. Conditions among the Lamanites.
3. Preparations for journey.
4. Breaking up of the party.
III. Ammon's Experiences.
1. First apprehension by Lamanites.
2. The Waters of Sebus.
3. Conversations with King Lamoni.
4. Results of conversations.
5. Controversy with Lamoni's father.
IV. Aaron's Experiences.
1. Imprisonment.
2. Release through Ammon's influence.
3. Meeting with the head king.
4. Subsequent successes.
V. Anti-Nephi-Lehi Church.
1. Influence of the old king.
2. The new name.
3. Rise of Opposition. A. Who opposition were. B. Position of Lamoni. C. Results to both parties to the war.
4. Removal of new converts to Zarahemla.
The Story
Although the material for this lesson covers 35 pages, there is almost nothing in it but narrative. But it is narrative of a most thrilling sort, unusual even in the Book of Mormon. When the angel appeared to Alma and Ammon that time, the same impression was made on Ammon and his brothers, sons of the King, as on Alma. For with Alma these men had been engaged in tearing down the church and faith which Alma's father and the King had labored to establish. But now the King's sons decided to undertake a mission to the Lamanites, while Alma stayed at home engaged in the work we have seen him do. They were promised that many would believe on their word and that they would be preserved from the hands of their enemies. They were gone fourteen years. But when they returned they brought many thousand converts with them. And such converts!
On reaching Lamanite territory the party separated, each man going a different way. Ammon's fortunes lay in the land of Ishmael. He distinguished himself there and attracted the attention of King Lamoni. This led to conversations with the King and Queen, with the result that they and their people were converted.
GUIDE LESSONS FOR JUNE
Meantime Aaron had gone to another land, Jerusalem, where he was imprisoned. Later, after a set-to with Lamoni's father, who was the general ruler of the Lamanites, Ammon had secured the old monarch's promise to have Aaron and his companions released. After this Aaron and his friends converted the old King and thousands of his subjects and this led to a proclamation that opened the way for preaching the word throughout all the Lamanite territory.
But opposition developed. The Amulonites and Amalekites, apostates and children of apostate Nephites, stirred up enmity against the converts. The old King died after giving these a new name, and was succeeded by a son who had a less strong arm than he. The people of Lamoni were attacked, but refused to take up arms in self-defense. In the end the Lamanite converts, many thousands in number,—were removed to Zarahemla, where they were set apart by themselves and given protection by the nation.
This story, a very wonderful story, is complete by itself, and forms one of the episodes of the Nephite people, in which that nation must have abounded.
Observations
1. The Lamanites at this period: From all accounts the Lamanites were far more numerous than the Nephites. This was due partly, it seems to the fact that they hung together better than their civilized neighbors. For the Nephites were always at loggerheads with one another. And then, too, disgruntled Nephites went over to the Lamanites, whereas no Lamanites ever defected into the ranks of the Nephites.
203
The Lamanites therefore covered more territory than the Nephites. The historian says that they almost surrounded the country occupied by the Nephites. And they had many "lands" and cities. Twelve of these are mentioned by name— Ishmael, Middoni, Jerusalem, Mormon, Nephi, Shilom, Shemlon, Lemuel, Shimmilon, Amulon, Helma, Midian. Their government was simpler than that of their neighbors. They had a "king" over each of these lands, as in the case of Lamoni, who ruled over Ishmael, all of whom seem to have been more or less responsible to a head king. It was a sort of feudalism, such as we find in Mediaeval Europe, only not perhaps so well knit together.
In habits and customs the Lamanites were far inferior to the Nephites. While many of them lived in houses—built perhaps mostly by the Nephites before their migration north—still some of them dwelt in tents. Especially was this true of those who lived in what was known as The Wilderness. They had no literature. They neither wrote nor read. They knew nothing of God or revealed religion. The historian describes them as "a wild and a hardened, and a ferocious people; a people who delighted in murdering the Nephites, and robbing and plundering them; and their hearts were set upon riches, or upon gold and silver, and precious stones." An idle and indolent race, they worshipped idols.
2. An heroic undertaking: We must bear in mind that this missionary enterprise of Ammon and his fellow workers was undertaken about eighty-five years before Christ. The Nephites and the Lamanites had gone on in their separate ways for nearly five hundred years, each developing along a different line. 204 Moreover, the Lamanites, on the one hand, had acquired and cultivated an intense bitterness of feeling towards their neighbors, the spirit of hatred and revenge and murder. And the Nephites on their part, had developed a fear and distrust of the Lamanites. And there you were. During these hundreds of years of separation the Nephites had never even attempted, so far as we know, to conquer their foe by means of the only power that ever does really conquer—the power of Christ, the power of love.
All of a sudden there rises among the Nephites a man who has the idea that these barbarians can be converted to the truth of revealed religion. And what is more, he is willing to risk his life in the undertaking. It is a grand idea. It is like a League of Nations only greater, because dominated by love, not fear. Doubtless if it succeeded, it would be the biggest piece of work done on the continent in five hundred years.
But what shall we say of the man who conceived this huge plan in the first place? Men are to be judged by the ideas they have and their success in executing them. Remember "the glory of God is intelligence." There is room here for the imagination to revive the man Ammon. And here once more we come upon the most wonderful thing in life —the immense power of love. For here was Ammon trying to outdo himself in breaking down the barriers of faith and truth, all of a sudden, like Paul facing in the opposite direction, and becoming even more determined and active in building what he had been trying to tear down. And then, when he had got the idea firmly embedded in his soul, nothing else counted—not
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
father and mother, not former associates, not ties of home and homeland, not even life itself, to say nothing of possible hardship and suffering by the side of which death itself would be sweet. Here is life on the grand scale, where men can utterly abandon themselves in the larger good, can abnegate self to the uttermost. Such an instance as this is a luminous comment on that profound saying of Jesus, that if we would save our life we must lose it. For if Ammon had not carried out this great plan of love and sacrifice, the chances are not only that we would never have heard of him but that he himself would have been lost to himself.
What was the effect of conversion on a man of cultivated intelligence. The results of conversion were just as powerful on the simple-minded Lamanite. And it was even more striking. Once Lamoni and his people became aware of the meaning of truth, their lives took on a new significance. They sloughed their old habits of sin. So great had suddenly become their horror of taking human life—a thing that theretofore had given them no compunction whatever—that they would not even take up arms in self-defense; and in order that they might not be tempted to break their vow, they buried all their weapons of war in the earth. It was a simple enough act in itself and one that we are inclined to undervalue, but it was a sublime act all the same and showed the hold that truth may have on the human heart.
3. Perhaps this is as good a place as any in which to call attention to two matters—one of substance and one of form—that go to show the divine origin of the Book of Mormon. The Book of Mormon, as you know, claims to be a translation, not
GUIDE LESSONS FOR JUNE
an original production by Joseph Smith. This requires that everything must be in keeping with that idea. The Nephite Record being an inspired translation, its spirit throughout should be the most wholesome. Now the essence of goodness is that there must be service. The "work and the glory" of even God is "to bring to pass the immortality and eternal life of man." That is, to serve.
Now this is the very heart and core of the Book of Mormon. There can be no doubt of this in the mind of anyone who will read that volume with an open mind. In a word, the Nephite Record abounds in such instances as this of Ammon and his companions—a willingness to make any personal sacrifice in order to bring about the larger service or good. Nephi, Benjamin, the two Mosiahs, the two Almas, Abinadi, and now Ammon and his friends. No mere deceiver or religious fraud would be likely to compose and publish a work of this character. SECOND observation concerns the form of the work. If the Book of Mormon is an inspired translation, as the Saints claim, then its literary form should be in keeping with that hypothesis. In a pre- ° vious lesson attention was called to the fact that the Small Plates of Nephi—the first one hundred fiftyseven pages of our present editions —is in the first person. This is the case because it is not an abridgment at all like the rest of the book—except actual quotations. And that fact agrees with the assumption that it is an inspired translation. In the present and the preceding lesson we have a similarly strong point. In Alma the eleventh chapter we have an account of the Nephite coins. This is in agreement with the claim that Mormon had before 205 him the record of Alma, of which he was making an abridgment. It is hardly probable that Alma would set down in his account, which was not intended to fall into strange hands, a statement of the coins then in use. There would be no reason for that. But there was the best of reasons why Mormon should do so in his record, because it was intended to be read by persons hundreds of years then in the future, and by those who would not be familiar with the coins used by the Nephites. Exactly the same line of reasoning holds good of Mormon's description of the Lamanites of the period in which Ammon lived. Alma knew their condition. His readers, if he ever had any, would have the same information. But not so with Mormon and his readers. He was making an abridgment for a generation yet in the future. The force of this argument will be seen at once if the conditions were reversed—if the Small Plates were in the third person, and so on. Questions 1, Why was the mission to the Lamanites such a hazardous undertaking? 2. Why is the burying of their weapons of war by Lamoni's people such a sublime act? 3. How would you justify the statement found in Alma 24, verse 30? 4. Why did it seem necessary for Ammon to display the power given him in the way he did? 5. What personal qualities do you find in Ammon? 6. Compare Alma and Ammon. References Book of Alma, chs. 17-28, inclusive. "Dictionary of the Book of Mormon” 206 (Reynolds) under Ammon, Lamoni, Aaron, Amalekites, Amulonites. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE "Message and Characters of the Book of Mormon" (Evans) pp. 188-217. LESSON 2 Work and Business (Second Week in June) TEACHER'S TOPIC Summary
During the past year we have considered characteristics which are fundamental in character-building and absolutely necessary for success and happiness in life. The following points may be emphasized:
1. The burden of responsibility in character development is on the parents—in the home.
2. Parents need to be guided by intelligent understanding of child nature.
3. Our aim should be the ultimate good of the child, not yielding to whims nor seeking the easiest way out for the moment.
4. Example is the best teacher. We must be what we wish them to become.
5. Moral qualities are built up through practice, and not by being "talked at or preached at." The home must furnish the right conditions for the formation of these habits. There are wonderful opportunities in the simplest situations of everyday life.
"When we talk about building character, the essence of this building is learning. * * * It is learning of life that I am talking about, and I would give you this definition of learning: learning is conduct that has been so acquired that when the time comes it carries itself." —William Kilpatrick—Columbia University.
Cooperation of Parents
I. Social Standards.
1. As members of the human race, we must share a common social life.
2. This social life is necessary to our development.
3. Though we disapprove of some community standards, we cannot withdraw our children from group life. It is their environment. They must venture forth.
4. Young people are governed largely by group standards. A. Children often resist on the ground that similar requirements are not made of neighbors' children.
5. Lacking in experience. And undeveloped mentally and spiritually youth needs help in forming right standards.
II. Parents' responsibility.
1. In shaping character in the home.
2. In modifying community standards. A. Get acquainted with parents of children's friends. B. Seek united action. More cooperative work on the part of parents. Parents' maxim should be—decide what is best for the ultimate welfare of the child and then work together toward that end.
III. Some community standards which can be modified only through cooperation of parents. Late hours. Numerous and expensive parties —encourage parties at home—have them simple.
GUIDE LESSONS FOR JUNE 207
LESSON 3
Literature (Third Week in June)
MARTHA GILBERT DICKINSON BIANCHI
Martha Bianchi, author of "The Life and Letters of Emily Dickinson," and daughter of William Austin and Susan Huntington Gilbert Dickinson, was born in Amherst, Massachusetts. After receiving her education at Miss Porter's school, Farmington, Connecticut, she spent some time in traveling. She was married in 1903 to Captain Alexander E. Bianchi. Mrs. Bianchi is the author of a number of poems and novels, also a contributor of articles to several of the magazines, including "Scribner's," "The Atlantic Monthly," and "Century." She was opposed to woman suffrage.
This brief sketch was taken from an Encyclopaedia.
THE LIFE AND LETTERS OF EMILY DICKINSON
By Her Niece—Martha Dickinson Bianchi
Emily Dickinson, "one of the most original intelligences and possibly the greatest woman poet of modern times, was born in Amherst, Massachusetts, December 10, 1830. She was a physical as well as a spiritual hermit, actually spending most of her life without setting her foot beyond her own doorstep. She wrote her short, introspective verses without thought of publication; and it was not until 1890, four years after her death, that the first volume of her posthumous poetry appeared, with an introduction by Thomas Wentworth Higginson." "That her work will last longer than the work of the majority of her —or our—generation is, I think, indubitable. That it is sometimes erratic, half done, and thrown off with no thought of publication, in need of the finisher's file, is also, I believe, self-evident. But in the greater number of the poems, the leap of thought is so daring, the gaps so thrilling, that moments which, in a lesser spirit, would have turned to pretty or audacious conceits become startling snatches of revelation." * * * "It is no secret that Emily Dickinson fell in love with a man already married, that she renounced her love, and withdrew from the world. (The poem entitled "The Soul Selects" is evidently autobiographical commentary.) We give it here:
THE SOUL SELECTS
The soul selects her own society, Then shuts the door; On her divine majority Obtrude no more.
Unmoved she notes the chariots pausing At her low gate; Unmoved, an emperor is kneeling Upon her mat.
I've known her from an ample nation Choose one; Then close the valves of her attention Like stone.
"In 1884 she was stricken, like her father, with Bright's disease. Two years later, on May 16, 1886, at Amherst, this woman with 'the
208
soul of a monk of the Middle Ages bound up in the flesh of a Puritan' died, after a life devoid of outward adventure. Few were present at the funeral; fewer still dreamed that she would outlive the obituary in the Springfield Republican. Today her place is secure; her work is definitely
Of the Colossal substance Of Immortality."
—Notes from a brief biography by Louis Untermeyer.
Those who are assigned to give this lesson should bear in mind that they are not to present especially Emily Dickinson, or her poetry, but particularly "The Life and Letters of Emily Dickinson," by Martha Dickinson Bianchi, a niece of the poetess. Though the book is a large one, on account of the nature of its contents it is one of the easiest of the course to give, for the reason that the reviewer can find so many quotable passages, more or less unattached, which will not only reveal Emily Dickinson herself, but Mrs. Bianchi and her book.
The volume consists of two parts: "Her Life," and "Her Letters." The first part—"Her Life"—is divided into eight chapters: 1. Ancestry; 2. Childhood; 3. School Days; 4. Social Life at Amherst Seventy Years Ago; 5. The End of Peace; 6. A Hedge Away; 7. Later Years From Friends and Books; 8. Her Religion. The second part consists of her letters to various people, in which many of her pert little bits of verse appear.
In this volume Martha Bianchi has done a very creditable piece of work. She has given us an intimate, spritely, delicate picture of her aunt, who, little known during her life time, has come to rank high among American poets. Mrs. Bianchi, possessed
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
evidently of some of Emily Dickinson's spirit, has given us a sparkling picture of the little girl who lived and wrote and loved nearly a century ago.
In giving reason for producing the book, the author in a prefatory note says: "A high exigence constrains the sole survivor of her family to state her simply and truthfully, in view of a public which has, doubtless without intention, misunderstood and exaggerated her seclusion—amassing a really quite voluminous stock of quite lurid misinformation of irrelevant personalities. She has been taught in colleges as a weird recluse, rehearsed to women's clubs as a love-lorn sentimentalist—even betrayed by one American essayist of repute to appear a fantastic eccentric.
"On the other hand, she has been named 'the feminine Walt Whitman' in at least one of the great universities; in another—
Of the Colossal substance Of Immortality."
That Mrs. Bianchi has succeeded in stating her simply there can be little doubt; but how truthfully it is as yet impossible to say. If by truthfully the author meant that she expected to tell the whole truth, then certainly she has fallen short, for there are many recesses in Emily Dickinson's mind and heart into which the reader is not allowed to glance, let alone look with anything like understanding. Mrs. Bianchi, however, is frank enough to admit that her aunt, in spiritual qualities, at least, was too much for her limited pen and her unlimited love. She says: "However the present volume may lift the veil, or presume to lead her shy reality into the light of mortal dawns again, Emily alone supplies the only
GUIDE LESSONS FOR JUNE
clue to herself, — articles of her faith—
"The Soul's superior instants Occur to her alone, When friend and earth's occasion Have infinite withdrawn.
"Or she, herself, ascended To too remote a height, For lower recognition Than her omnipotent.
"This mortal abolition Is seldom, but as fair As apparition—subject To autocratic air.
"Eternity's disclosure To favorites, few, Of the Colossal substance Of Immortality."
That poem, to be understood must be thought over—dreamed over— for it, too, is of the "substance of immortality." She is evidently trying to voice a truth which hung frequently about Emerson and others of the great philosophers that only when earth and friends and time have withdrawn infinitely away does one see the superior quality—or immortality if you will—of the soul. Lorado Taft attempted the same poem in stone in his magnificent group "The Solitude of the Soul." Mrs. Bianchi is acknowledging that it is quite impossible for a biographer to reveal the soul of one who can only catch glimpses of her own greater self at intervals. The person, she says in other words, sometimes "ascends to too great height" for common mortal recognition and that, therefore, those heights cannot be chronicled because they can be so indistinctly understood in common moments.
One thinks of the apostles and Jesus. They could understand Jesus, the man, rather well; Jesus
209
the God they could not understand at all. That is, whenever Jesus was "transfigured before them" the apostles were simply dumb or—slept.
Mrs. Bianchi makes further excuses by saying: "The essential difficulty in presenting a Life of Emily Dickinson has been enhanced by the sacred pact observed with her chosen few, that all letters should be burned after her death. This excludes exactly those which might have held together the frail external incidents of her days, which seem so scantily supplied to those ignorant of the thronging events of the Spirit which eternally preoccupied her."
Those letters, no doubt, suggested the recesses of her life which the poetess preferred should remain in at least partial shadow. To one of Martha Bianchi's temperament, as expressed in her spritely book, a hint was evidently sufficient. We, therefore, close the volume, believing the tender niece who knew her aunt for many years, might have given us much more had she not feared breaking faith with the dead.
But turning more directly to the biography we read: "Emily Dickinson's ancestry is distinctly traced in nine generations in America." "Her local ancestry settled in old Hadley, and a later generation was one of the founders of the church and town of Amherst. There were Dickinsons mentioned in Hadley among the first settlers of the original Indian grants in 1659." By that we learn that Emily's progenitors were among the first arrivals in America and that she is in a very real sense an American poet.
Her father was a lawyer practicing in Amherst, Massachusetts, a graduate of Yale University. Her mother "was an exquisite little lady of the old school long passed into mythology." She was the daughter
210
of Alfred Norcross, of Monson. "The family was well-to-do and she was educated and finished off at a school for young ladies at New Haven, very much in repute in her day.
Upon her marriage, no railroad then reaching Amherst, her dower was brought by several yoke of brindle oxen—"
"Emily Norcross Dickinson feared and honored her husband after the manner of the Old Testament. She trembled and flushed, obeyed and was silent before him. He was to her Jehovah, and she was to him the sole being to whom he intrusted the secrets of his inmost heart. His letters to her were discreet, respectful, 'frosty but kindly'—ending always with the assurance of his remaining her 'most ob't servant, Edward Dickinson.'"
"It is impossible to derive Emily from either her stately father or her fluttering little mother, always timorous, always anxious. Treasured among the daughter's most cherished papers, was found the little yellow certificate of her mother's exemplary conduct as a girl at school:
"Miss Emily Norcross, for punctual attendance, close application, good acquirements, and discreet behavior merits the approbation of her preceptress.
"E, P. DUTCH."
"And out of this human stock and precision of living came the little girl whose soul flew up and away like the smoke from the high chimneys of her home under the tall pines."
It is with such delightfully "different" notes as those that this book abounds, indicating that Martha Bianchi inherited much of the birdlike quality of her relative.
"Emily Norcross Dickinson, named for her mother, was born December 11, 1830, in Amherst, Massachusetts, in the old house said to have been the first erected of brick in Amherst."
"Her brother Austin, (Martha Dickinson Bianchi's father) and her younger sister Lavinia, were the other children of the home, both possessed of marked ability and varied temperament."
The chapter dealing with Emily's childhood here must be passed by with the mere mention that the author calls attention to the fact that Helen Fisk, later known as Helen Hunt, the poetess, was one of the Dickinsons' favorite playmates. Her school days and her social life must also be skipped, although the reviewer in class might well spend some time by quoting from both of those chapters.
Then came her unfortunate love affair over which her niece passes so lightly and delicately, but which, in all probability, had much to do with giving us one of our greatest American poetesses and perhaps one of the world's greatest. A glimpse of her tragedy and the manner in which she met it are given in one of her letters quoted on page 49 and followed by some verses. They run:
"Susan—We both are women and there is a Will of God; Could the dying confide Death. There would be no dead. Wedlock is shyer than death. Thank you for tenderness.
"And during her first ecstasy of renunciation:
"Title divine is mine The life without The Sign. Acute degree Conferred on me— Empress of Calvary. Royal, all but the Crown— Betrothed, without the Swoon God gives us Women When two hold Garnet to garnet Gold to gold— Born—Bridaled— Shrouded— In a day Tri-Victory— 'My Husband' Women say, Stroking the melody, Is this the way? Emily."
The author follows with a word portrait of her subject taken from the preface to one of her volumes of poetry—"The Single Hound." This could well be read in class. It closes with the very apt statement:
Fascination was her element. "She was not daily bread; she was star dust. Her solitude made her and was part of her."
The chapter entitled: "A Hedge Away" is filled full of intimate little glimpses of Emily and her new love, "Sister Sue" or "Sister Susan," her brother Austin's wife. The flashes on pages 60 and 61 would be interesting to the class and also illuminating.
It is in the discussion of Emily Dickinson's religion that her niece reveals her own power best. Caught by the spritely, one might say almost irreverent, flashes of the poetess, the author reveals an insight into true religion that is definitely refreshing. She senses the shortcomings of the creeds, and in Emily's quiet little flings discovers a deeper, more beautiful religion, which is, after all, the religion of the Master. Love is at its heart— not fear, not sham, not preachments, merely Love unfeigned.
211
Then came the end. Her biographer writes: "While her work still fascinated her, there came a morning in June, 1884, when without warning Emily was smitten as her father before her, and though she lived for two years after, "The green world went on a sudden blind," and it was impossible for her to write more than an occasional penciled note. She wrote her sister at this time, 'You must let me go first, Sue, because I live in the sea always now, and know the road!'
"It was on May 16, 1886, that her family gave her back to immortality with a strange relief, as of setting a winged thing free. At the simple funeral in the old house, Colonel Higginson read a poem of Emily Bronte's, the last words she ever wrote, prefacing it by saying: "This poem on Immortality was a favorite of Emily Dickinson who has just put it on—if she could ever have been said to have put it off."
The poem might well be read to the class as a statement of her religion. The tribute of her brother's wife —the Sister Sue of her love—is rather fine and might well be quoted in part. Among other things she said: "A Damascus blade gleaming and glancing in the sun was her wit. Her swift poetic rapture was like the long glistening note of a bird one hears in the June woods at high noon, but can never see. Like a magician she caught the shadowy apparitions of her brain and tossed them in startling picturesqueness to her friends, who, charmed with their simplicity and homeliness as well as profundity, fretted that she had so easily made palpable the tantalizing fancies forever eluding their bungling, fettered grasp.... How
212
better note the flight of this 'soul of fire in a shell of pearl' than by her own words?
"Morns like these we parted; Noons like these she rose; Fluttering first then firmer, To her fair repose.—S. H. D."
Interesting are all the letters. The one who gives the lesson may select almost at random and find something illuminating and interesting, on account of that "difference" which is the spark of genius. Here are two examples:
To Colonel T. W. Higginson, August, 1874.
"When I think of my father's lonely life and lonelier death there is this redress—
"Take all away, The only thing worth larceny Is left—the Immortality.
"My earliest friend wrote me the week he died, 'If I live, I will go to Amherst; if I die, I certainly will.'
"Is your house deeper off?
"Your Scholar."
To the same, June, 1875.
"Dear Friend,—Mother was paralyzed Tuesday, a year from the evening father died. I thought perhaps you would care.
"Your Scholar."
"A death-blow is a life-blow to some Who, till they died, did not alive become; Who, had they lived, had died, but when They died, vitality begun."
In one of her letters to her nieces she said this so succinctly:
"A word left careless on a page May consecrate an eye, When folded in perpetual seam The wrinkled author lie."
And again: "Life is a spell so exquisite that everything conspires to break it."
Letters. On pages 292, 293, 306, 397, and 336 seem to me to be especially fraught with great "imaginings."
Questions and Problems
1. Locate Amherst, Massachusetts, on a map, giving some approximate distances from New Haven and Cambridge.
2. Why was it quite impossible for the author to state Emily Dickinson full "truthfully."
3. What are your reactions to the poem, beginning, "The Soul's Superior Instants?" Do you ever sense "Superior instants?" Do you think they are common with humanity?
4. Discuss the two little poems "Take All Away" and the one "A death-blow is a Life-blow."
5. Bring to class any poems of Emily Dickinson that may have been especially helpful or interesting to you.
6. Quote some of Mrs. Bianchi's most effective passages.
7. Discuss Mr. Higginson's statement: "This poem on Immortality was a favorite of Emily Dickinson, who has just put it on—if she could ever have been said to have put it off." What is the significance of his words?
Interesting Poems by Emily Dickinson
EXPERIENCE
I stepped from plank to plank So slow and cautiously; The stars about my head I felt, About my feet the sea.
I knew not but the next Would be my final inch,— This gave me that precarious gait Some call experience.
LOST FAITH
To lose one's faith surpasses The loss of an estate, Because estates can be Replenished,—faith cannot.
Inherited with life, Belief but once can be; Annihilate a single clause, And Being's beggary.
Who has not found the heaven below Will fail of it above. God's residence is next to mine, His furniture is love.
ASPIRATION
We never know how high we are Till we are called to rise; And then, if we are true to plan, Our statures touch the skies.
The heroism we recite Would be a daily thing, Did not ourselves the cubits warp For fear to be a king.
THE BRAIN
The brain is wider than the sky, For, put them side by side, The one the other will include With ease, and you beside.
The brain is deeper than the sea, For, hold them blue to blue, The one the other will absorb, As sponges, buckets do.
The brain is just the weight of God, For, lift them, pound for pound, And they will differ, if they do, As syllable from sound.
A MAN
Fate slew him, but he did not drop, She felled—he did not fall— Impaled him on her fiercest stakes— He neutralized them all.
She stung him, sapped his firm advance, But, when her worst was done, And he, unmoved, regarded her, Acknowledged him a man.
A BOOK
There is no frigate like a book To take us lands away, Nor any coursers like a page Of prancing poetry.
This traverse may the poorest take Without oppress of toll; How frugal is the chariot That bears a human soul!
JOY IN DEATH
If tolling bell I ask the cause; "A soul has gone to God." I'm answered in a lonesome tone; Is heaven then so sad?
That bells should joyful ring to tell A soul had gone to heaven, Would seem to me the proper way A good news should be given.
214 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
LESSON 6
Social Service (Fourth Week in June)
Organization and Administration of Social Work
In the five preceding lessons we have outlined the field of social work in terms of its general scope and methods. Many important details have, of necessity, been omitted. Our purpose has been achieved if our readers have gained a correct, although general impression of this vast area of Christian endeavor. It remains for us to consider in this, the last lesson, the ways in which these diversified needs are being met.
1. Financing Social Work
It is greatly to the credit of our Western civilization that vast sums of money are yearly devoted to public and private social work. It is increasing out of all proportion to the general increase in wealth, chiefly for the reason that individuals and social groups are becoming more and more altruistic. The cost of administering those forms of social work called "public welfare," (i. e., the care of the insane, the blind, the deaf; almshouses, county hospitals, mothers' pensions, etc.,) is borne out of public funds secured through taxation. All other forms of social work, called "private philanthropy," are financed wholly by voluntary donation.
Voluntary donations for philanthropic purposes range all the way from the million-dollar endowment (e. g. Julius Rosenwald's gift for negro education) to the few coppers dropped into the Salvation Army "pot" at Christmas. Some organizations—such as the American Red Cross, for example, conduct a yearly drive for membership. Many religious groups doing social work (e. g., the Jews in large American cities) assess their donors a given amount. The most typical method in this country, however, is the "drive" or "campaign," in which a children's organization, for example, appeals directly to the public by means of the "tag-day." These campaigns, of course, are promoted by the usual methods of advertising through newspapers, leaflets, posters, radio, and the pulpit.
Before the war it was customary for each social agency to make its own "tag-day." During the strenuous days of 1917 and 1918, however, drives of one sort or another became so frequent that the public—largely on the initiative of its business-men —sought to protect itself by combining these drives and establishing what is called "The War Chest." This method of substituting one big money-raising campaign for a number of independent "tag-days" has developed so rapidly since the war that at the present time most American cities of any size maintain a "Community Chest," an organization through which most of the accredited, non-sectarian agencies raise their funds jointly.
II. The Organization of Private Philanthropy
One of the precursors of the community-chest movement was the Council of Social Agencies, an organization of private social
GUIDE LESSONS FOR JUNE
work and social workers for the purpose of coordinating social practice and raising the standards of social work. This movement has been made necessary because of the vast array of independent philanthropic efforts. One of the valid criticisms of private social work is that it is sporadic, is independently projected, and often overlaps. Then, too, it leaves many important areas of human need untouched.
The origin of this movement for cooperation in social work goes back to the '60s and '70s of last century, when, in London for example, conditions became so acute that in order to do intelligent social work it became necessary for organizations to investigate every case of need before relief was supplied. This situation in England produced what is called "The Charity Organization Society" movement, a movement which has stood for the principle that before aid is given to a family or a person in need, an attempt will be made to find out if and what other agency might also be putting in relief.
Strange as it might seem, there are many applicants for relief who exploit a philanthropic agency and deliberately secure relief from as many agencies as possible, sometimes using an alias. The Charity Organization Society is now perhaps the largest single movement within the field of private social work. It is organized in practically all modern countries; the various branches assist one another in the investigation and treatment of inter-city problems.
III. Public Welfare Administration
Next to education the state's greatest problem is the care of its handicapped,—the insane, feeble-minded, delinquent, dependent, etc. In most American states, as a
215
matter of fact, the second largest item of expense is the cost of administering public welfare activities. Unlike education, which is a matter for the towns and local districts, public welfare—in the main—is administered directly by the state.
This situation calls for a major division of state government devoted exclusively to these matters. Beginning with the Massachusetts State Board of Charity, in 1863, all but three states—Nevada, Mississippi, and Utah—have created central boards or departments of public welfare.
Specifically, a state board of public welfare is a non-partisan body of capable citizens, serving without pay. They are appointed by the Governor with the consent of the Legislature, and are usually empowered to coordinate and standardize the work of all institutions and agencies dealing with the dependent, neglected, delinquent, physically or mentally handicapped classes supported wholly or in part by the state or any subdivision thereof. Such a board also acts as a clearing house and a research agency on all public welfare problems affecting the state.
Not only does such a board or department call attention of the legislature to current needs, tendencies, and proposals, but also formulates and sponsors preventive programs calculated to minimize public welfare problems and activities.
An ideal board or department of public welfare resembles in most particulars the existing state boards of education, except that the executive officer should be appointed by the board rather than elected by the people.
IV. Trained Social Workers
Social work is successful only when competent people adminis-
216
ter it. An adequate personality, a liberal education, and a period of professional training—usually a year's graduate study in one of the score or so of training schools—are the minima. This emphasis upon training is not, of course, meant to disparage the volunteer worker. As a matter of fact, there is a definite place—especially in our Church— for the untrained visitor in the field of social work.
Most people argue that all funds devoted to social work should be devoted to relief, and as little as possible to "overhead," including the salaries of social workers. A moment's reflection will show how superficial, in general, this view is.
Which is sounder, for instance, in the case of a destitute family: To furnish sustenance for the family without case-work, or to investigate the problem carefully and determine the causes of poverty? To remedy them by (a) finding employment for the breadwinners, (b) arranging for medical care if necessary, (c) getting indifferent relatives to share the responsibility, and so forth? There is but one answer to such a question.
Attendance at conference of one sort or another is not a substitute for training in social work. National conventions of social work for social workers are valuable—and more or less indispensable—for trained workers in service. State conferences of social work serve a double purpose. In the first place they educate the laity with respect to (a)
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
the nature of social problems and (b) the scope and methods of social work. Secondly, they are an invaluable means of promoting professionalism in the field of social workers.
Questions for the Further Stimulation of Thought
1. How is social work financed in your community? What are the relative amounts from taxes and from private philanthropy?
2. Does your community indulge in "tag-days?" What are the arguments for and against raising money in this way?
3. To what extent is social or public welfare work in your community or state endowed? During the past quarter of a century, what large donations have been made for social work?
4. Outline a program for raising the standards of social and public welfare work in your community and for securing the establishment of a state department of public welfare in Utah.
5. Analyze further the objection to "overhead costs" in social work.
6. To what extent is your community supplied with trained social workers?
7. What improvements might be made in the present methods of selecting and training volunteer social workers?
8. Is there a state conference of social work in your state? What are its history, aims, and achievements? What place should it fill?
Florence Crismon Rich
Daughter of Mrs. Elizabeth C. Crismon, former member of the General Board
On January 20, 1930, Florence Crismon Rich passed from earth life to a sphere of greater activity. All, who knew her loved her and appreciated her gentleness, tenderness, firmness, ability, and culture.
Florence came to bless her parents' home, January 1, 1874. What a New Year's gift she proved to be! For she filled the home with joy. When she went to school she stood out as superior, and one of her schoolmates thus characterized her: "A lovely girl has come to school. She's just like a rosebud among a lot of sunflowers."
On December 11, 1895, she married John Y. Rich, and to them were born four sons: Robert, who died in infancy; Denton, Jefferson, and Joseph Caine. Florence was a self-sacrificing wife and mother. It may be truly said of her that she was devoted in all the relations of life; as daughter, sister, wife, mother, she played her part well. Her husband, her children, her mother, her home, were her first care. When her obligations to these were fulfilled and she had time for other things, she liked to delve into literature and to mingle with those who also loved the great authors. She was a charter member of the Author's Club and belonged also to the Cleofan.
Seldom is it given to a mother to have such constant companionship with a daughter as existed between Mrs. Crismon and Florence. For only a few years were they separated, when Florence was away at school, and for five years after her marriage when she resided in Brigham City. She knew her mother's pleasure in the Author's Club and made it possible for her to attend the sessions for years. Unselfish devotion was manifest in the home. Never was an unkind or contentious word heard. When pain racked her body, she tried to conceal her suffering.
When It's Almost Blossom Time
By Lydia Hall
When it's springtime, lovely springtime And the sky is all a-glow, When the mocking birds are singing, And the south winds softly blow, When the honey bees are buzzing Where the honey suckles climb, When the world is full of beauty Then it's almond blossom time.
When the petals, pink are falling, Lightly falling on the ground, And the sparkling brooklet's singing With a very merry sound, When the lovely fragrance tells us That the world is all in rhyme, Then you know beyond all doubting That it's almond blossom time.
Notes from the Field
Rigby Stake: It gives us great pleasure to publish this little picture of the Ririe Ward, in Rigby Stake. Taken last spring, it seems to be expressive of Relief Society groups. As we note, the sisters in the picture range from the darling little babies in their mothers' arms, up to the mature women, who have written in their faces something of the story of life. These pictures are very expressive
—a fine demonstration of the message of Relief Society to all women of the Church, appealing alike to the mother with her first baby and to the grandmother.
That Relief Society women excel in more things than one, the reports from all parts where the organization exists clearly demonstrate. These accounts are eloquent of activity along all lines of development, physical, intellectual, spiritual.
Big Horn Stake: The office is in receipt of a most excellent cook-book of tested recipes. It is gotten out in a very attractive and practical manner, with a blue oilcloth cover, rendering it usable in every kitchen. The book not only is filled with excellent recipes for all kinds of articles of food, but it is also interspersed with very fine suggestions that cover the whole range of housekeeping. We congratulate the Big Horn Stake upon this achievement; it is another evidence of their enterprise, energy, and vision.
Alpine Stake: At the close of 1929, as a compliment to the ward officers and class leaders of the stake, a unique luncheon was given in the Alpine Stake Tabernacle by the Relief Society Stake Board. Two long tables, with covers set for 51 guests, were transformed into a mass of color by the use of Autumn flowers and table center pieces made of pumpkin bowls filled with red and yellow apples. This introduced the Hallowe'en motive, which was most effective in the soft gleam of lighted orange tapers. The guests wore Hallowe'en caps, and presented a most effective ap-
NOTES FROM THE FIELD
pearance. President Maud D. Christensen presided as toastmistress during the following program: Toast, "A Recipe for the 1 o'clock Meeting," by Jennie Cunningham: Toast, "The Relief Society Quilting Bee," by Eleanor Nicholes; Toast to the Board Members, by Hannah Ashby; Toast to the Ward Presidents, by Pearl Loveless. The occasion was greatly enhanced in value by the presence of General Board Member Jennie B. Knight, who was a special guest. Very fine music concluded a most interesting program.
Deseret Stake: At the regular Union Meeting during the Summer of 1929, a course in "Methods of Teaching" was given for all the Relief Society class leaders of the stake. Each ward in the stake held a Visiting Teachers' Convention during the summer and fall. The aim of these conventions was to encourage the teachers and help them to sense more fully their importance and responsibility in the organization. One or more stake board members attended these conventions. Successful Ward Conferences were held in each ward during the past year. A number of talks, all bearing on the theme of the home, gave the ward as well as the stake workers an opportunity for self-expression. The stake as a whole adopted a six months' plan for the Work and Business Meetings. This was successful in standardizing the work and producing the effects desired.
During the past year the stake board made regular visits to the wards, and the entire program on these occasions was furnished by the stake board. The theme upon
219
which all the talks were built was Happiness. On July 10, eight of the stake board members, with their husbands, took an outing to Beaver and Puffers' Lake. Breakfast was cooked camp fire style at Cove Fort. After having a regular monthly board meeting with one of the former board members in Beaver, the party returned to Puffers' Lake, where dinner was served. Hikes to the lake and other beauty spots made a most delightful conclusion to the excursion, which was a combination of recreation and demonstration of Relief Society work.
Liberty Stake: One of the outstanding features of last summer's pleasure enjoyed by the sisters of the Eighth Ward Relief Society, was a glorious trip to the Arizona Temple. The sisters, 25 in number, chartered a bus from the Union Bus Company, and left the Eighth Ward Chapel on the morning of May 22, arriving in Arizona, May 24, at 8 a. m. As the party approached the temple, it appeared a most beautiful sight. The temple workers were waiting for the sisters on the temple steps. President Udall welcomed the party, and took them through all the rooms of the temple. The beauty of the Mesa Temple is most wonderful, yet its extreme simplicity makes a very great appeal. The influence of this appeal was felt by all who had the opportunity of enjoying it. It was an experience the sisters will never forget. Before going through the temple a testimony meeting was held, and all responded to the wonderful spirit in the sacred hall. It was a great privilege for our women to be able to work for the Lamanite sisters. After the sessions in the temple,
220
Brother James W. Lesueur presented the party with a book of Indian Legends, compiled by himself. The party felt that it was a most unusual
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
opportunity to be taken sightseeing after the temple excursion. They saw the Indians on their reservations, the Jaredite Canal, and other historical places. The party is photographed under the giant cactus. After the party had concluded its sightseeing tour, it returned to Salt Lake by way of Death Valley, where a rather thrilling experience occurred in the form of a sand storm. The whole excursion was wonderful, never to be forgotten by those who were fortunate enough to be in the party.
The Lund Home: Before the holidays it was suggested to the General Board of Relief Society that books would be a most acceptable contribution to the Lund Home. The reading material available there was quite limited, as the boys do not have access to a public library. The board members were asked to bring into the office, for the boys, any books or magazines that could be spared from home libraries. Subscriptions were given for boys' magazines, and a fine selection of books assembled. The following letter is an eloquent expression of the appreciation felt by the boys:
"Dear Friends:
"We are sorry that we have neglected sending this letter before. We had a very fine, memorable Christmas, for which you are largely responsible. The books which were given to us are about the choicest and best selected volumes that can be given to boys. We are very grateful to our dear friends who have contributed to us. We thoroughly enjoyed the candy and nuts, and we wish to thank you again for these. The victrola is quite an amusing novelty, and we are afraid that if we don't stop playing it all the time that it will soon wear out. Our tree was decorated prettier than any other we have ever had; thanks for the decorations and all other gifts that you have contributed for our happiness.
"Your very grateful friends, "Lund Home Boys."
"FOR THE ADORNMENT AND PROTECTION OF ALL SURFACES"
Bennett's PURE PAINTS VARNISHES ENAMELS
Bennett Glass & Paint Co. Salt Lake City
Gas is Modernization
How easy it is to modernize your home... To put an end to dirt, bother and fuss! Natural Gas furnaces are easy to install. Whether you have a basement or not you can have a central heating plant, giving you uniform, clean heat at a surprisingly low cost. Automatic hot water furnished instantly by Automatic Natural Gas water heaters is a convenience every home should have. At 7 o'clock in the morning or midnight... You can have an abundant supply of hot water instantly, it does not matter when...
Other Natural Gas conveniences are automatic refrigerators, attractive cooking ranges, sanitary incinerators and space heaters to take the chill off these snappy spring mornings.
If you are located in a Natural Gas Community send this coupon to our nearest office.
Please send me further information about Natural Gas Modernization.
No obligation on my part.
Name _______________ Address _____________
Utah Gas & Coke Co. 45 South Main
Ogden Gas Co. 414 24th Street
Wasatch Gas Co. Branch Offices at Kaysville and Murray
THE IDEAL FUEL
When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine
Planting Time Is Here
Tested Seeds and Reliable Shrubs and Trees part. With Porter-Walton's acclimated Our Seed and Nursery Catalog tells what, when and how to plant.
PORTER-WALTON CO. Salt Lake City
Send for Free Copy
FAITH
By Carrie Tanner
O wondrous gift from God, the gift of faith— The great impelling power within the soul. Like acorn small it grows to mighty oak That firm withstands the angry tempest rage.
Or like the vine, it climbs and spreads and clings Around the precious words of truth revealed, And blossoms in the warmth of God's great love.
O strong and sacred power that sustains The noble martyr on the torturing cross, Who fain would know the agonizing pain Ere from the lips would send denial foul.
The mighty power that doth stay the flame, Or close, for purpose great, the lion's jaw.
The path we walk that leads us on and on; And though the night be dark, the gloom be chill, The way be steep, it leads to wondrous gate That opens through the sacred jasper wall.
Sego MILK
Such Delicious Puddings Pies Custards Creams
Rival
At All Grocers
Temple and Burial Clothes
COMPLETE SUITS FOR MEN AND WOMEN
Variety of Grades and Prices Prompt and
Careful Attention To Mail—Telephone—Telegraph Orders. Open Daily, 9 a. M.—5 p. M. General Board Relief Society Phone Wasatch 3286 29 Bishop's Building Salt Lake City, Utah 29 Richards Street Complete Printing and Binding Service OFFICE RULING. AND AND BANK YW — FORMS BINDING SPECIAL ATTENTION TO MAIL ORDERS We offer special prices on binding Church Magazines. These volumes should be preserved as valuable additions to your library.— Write us about them. The Deseret News Press Salt Lake City When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine Relief Society Women--- Attention | After sixteen years of service to the people, the BURIAL CLOTHES DEPARTMENT of the Relief Society takes this opportunity of expressing appreciation to you for your co-operation and patronage, which has contributed to the growth and stability of the Department. The Presidency of the Church, realizing the needs of the people, authorized the establishment of the Department in 1913. Since that time it has endeavored to serve the people. The Burial Clothes Department desires to announce that it has on hand a large and complete stock of temple and burial clothing in a variety of materials. There are suits for men and women, and burial clothing for children, including tailored suits for small boys. We give prompt and careful attention to mail, telephone and telegraph orders, and prepay postage and express charges. When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine 2m When YOUR Building BURNS There's a certain amount of comfort to know that should fire destroy your building tonight that Such insurance will indemnify you for the loss incurred and allow you to rebuild without financial hardship. It's worth a geod deal to have this protection in these times. See our agent in your town. UTAH HOME FIRE INSURANCE CO. HEBER J. GRANT & CO. General Agents 20 South Main Street Salt Lake City, Utah you are covered by fire insurance. Seven Times Champion of the World Sent to you on Free Trial Utah Power & Light Co. And.: Eureka Vacuum Cleaner Co. 177 B. 8rd So. St., Salt Lake City | 12 POINTS OF SUPERIORITY! |  A Dozen Reasons Why MOUNTAINEER OVERALLS Give Longer Wear and More Satisfaction. Bib "Stop-Loss" watch pocket.. Bib deluxe and pencil pocket.. Wide and strong suspenders. - "Stop-Loss" side pockets.. Large reinforced back pockets.. Wide and roomy in seat and legs.. "Stop-Loss" combination pliers and rule pocket. 8. Triple stitched seams. 9. First quality denim. 19. Bar-tacked at every point of strain. 1 12 AN WOW. Convenient match pocket., at for comfort, service—guaranteed. Due to large scale production and unusual buying power, Mountaineer Overalls with the Stop-Loss Pockets cost you no more than ordinary overalls. Ask Your Dealer for Mountaineer Overalls with Stop-Loss Pockets Manufactured in Salt Lake City by Z C. M. I. CLOTHING FACTORY —— When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine MRS KATHERINE WURSTEN 597 NO G EAST LOGAN UTAH | What Will Her Future Be? One Thing is Certain—Her "Daddy" Has Sufficient Life Insurance Protection to Assure Her Education IT COSTS SO LITTLE AND MEANS SO MUCH « The Issues the Best there is in Life Insurance BENEFICIAL LIFE INSURANCE CO SALT LAKE CITY When Buying Mention Relef Society Magazine —  BIG HOME COMPANY HEBER J. GRANT, Pres. _ E. T. RALPHS, Gen. Mgr. SUMMER EXCURSION FARES Via Southern Pacific Lines TO LOS ANGELES AND RETURN BOTH WAYS § A) 00 via SAN FRANCISCO To LOS ANGELES via SAN FRANCISCO return- § 47.50 ing direct or route reversed Proportionately low fares from all other points in UTAH, IDAHO and MONTANA. STOPOVERS ALLOWED AT ALL POINTS. TICKETS ON SALE DAILY, MAY 15th TO SEPT. 30th FINAL RETURN LIMIT OCT. 31st For further information CALL, WRITE or PHONE D. R. OWEN, GENERAL AGENT PHONES WAS. 3008—3078 Se UNION Pan STAGES TRAVEL WITH Railroad Certainty---Bus Economy TWO DAILY SCHEDULES EAST SOUTH | NORTH Denver, Omaha, Kansas City, Chicago, Pocatello, Idaho Falls, St. Anthony, Boise, Portland, Spokane, Las Vegas, Los Angeles. Sponsored by the First Transcontinental Railroad SAFETY AND COMFORT DON B. MILLER, Agent, Union Bus Station Phone Wasatch 6231 Or Your Local Agent Salt Lake City, Utah When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine 41 SO. MAIN ST. SALT LAKE CITY Heating Costs and Estimates —supplied by Mr. JUNIUS ROMNEY, La Paloma Apartments, Salt Lake City. Last year, which included an abnormal winter, Mr. Romney used a prepared coal for hand-firing and his coal bill was approximately $250. Using this as a basis the Gas Company estimated his coal costs per year at $275.50, which included handling and removal of ashes, cost of firing, loss and shrinkage of coal, firing tools and other maintenance costs. The estimated net cost of gas per year was $304, Here are his experiences for three months of gas firing this year, which included no winter weather except in January, Month Gas Co. Experience Estimate Gross Net** January. - $40.00 $84.17* $76.52* February 36.00 58.71 53.64 March | 32.00 53.90 49.00 **If paid in 10 days. *Gas used only last 10 days of month; 65,000 cubic feet consumed, which, at regular rate would have been $32.50 for 10 days heat. Gas company estimated consumption for month at 202,000 cu. Ft. And made adjustment on that basis, of—gross, $27.10; net, $24.64. To make the change Mr. Romney paid $415.98 for conversion. For a little more he could have installed a stoker which would have afforded automatic heat and enabled him to use a preparation of coal which would have cost little more than half of what he was paying for the coal used in hand firing. The coal producers of Utah maintain a combustion department to help you with your heating problems; expert advice is available without cost to you within a reasonable distance of Salt Lake and Ogden. Ask your retail coal dealer or communicate with THE UTAH COAL PRODUCERS ASSN. 709 Ezra Thompson Building Salt Lake City, Utah Telephone Wasatch 7054 SAFETY ECONOMY DEPENDABILITY When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine L. D. S. GARMENTS WINTER LINE Selected from our extensive line L. D. S. Garments we suggest the following numbers of winter wear: No. 1 New style, ribbed let. Wet. Cotton with rayon silk stripe. An excellent Ladies number..$1.25 No. 2 Old style, ribbed lgt. Wet. Cotton, our standard summer wet........... 1.25 No. 3 Ribbed med. Wet. Cotton, bleached. Our all season number.............. 1.90 No. 4 Ribbed heavy west. Unbleached cotton. Our Double back numbetr.... 2.25 No. 56 Part wool, ribbed unbleached. Our best selling wool number.... 3.0 No. 6 Light weight summer garment. Old style or Ladies' new style.......... 757 Light wet. New or old style, mercerized— silky furnish 2220... 1.75 8 Light weight Spring and Summer garment. Men only - 1.25  Light weight silk for ladies only, new style only 1.50 10 Medium wet. Silk for men and women, new style only............ 2.50 In ordering, be sure to specify whether old or new style garments, three-quarter or ankle length legs, short or long sleeves are wanted. Also give bust measure, height and weight to insure perfect fit. Postage prepaid. FACTORY TO YOU—THE ORIGINAL Utah Woolen Mills Briant Stringham, Manager 28 Richards Street One-Malf Bleck Seuth ef Temple Gates Save At Our Store Each QO. P. Skaggs System Store is noted for its lowpriced, high quality edibles. By serving yourself, and selecting exactly. The items you need you will never overbuy. Start the new month right. Make our store your food shopping headquarters. Pay less and save the difference. "A Surety of Purity" BUY AT VOGELERS We Want to Thank the Good Members of the RELIEF SOCIETY their splendid patronage During Conference Week. For eT eT eel al See us or write us for Bulbs—Flowers—Shrubs— Plants Poultry and Rabbit Feeds. Hay—Grain—Potatoes—Flour. Genuine Uintah Basin HONEY Vogeler Seed Co. 30 West First South Street SALT LAKE CITY When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine LDS. GARMENTS Good grade, and well made. When ordering, state Size, New or Old Style, and if for manor lady. Postage prepaid Sample on request 147 Spring Needle, Flat weave 628 Mere. Lisle Light Wt..... 2.00  New Style, Rayon 32 Combed Cotton, Lt. Wt. 1.50 302 Ladies' New Style, Rayon 2.50 208 Lt. Wt. Rib. Double Card 3807 Men' Ss New Style, Rayon.. 2.75 Cot. 1.35 264 Rayon Silk, Fine Quality 3.00 222 Rayon Striped Combed 748 Unbleached' Cot., Hvy. Cot. 1. Wt. 2.00 258 Med. Wt. Rib. —— 754 Bleached Cot., Hvy. Wt... 2.25 (OFT {6 UC /c) a 1072 Mixed Wool and Cotton. 4.00 BARTON & CO. Established in Utah 45 Years 142 WEST SOUTH TEMPLE ST. Salt Lake City, Utah HALL'S CANKER MEDICINE If you want to prevent canker or sore throat, use Hall's Canker Medicine. If any of your children have canker or sore throat, give them Hall's Canker Medicine. This wonderful medicine is sold by all Druggists. In Buying Canker Medicine Don't Forget to Ask For HALL'S CANKER MEDICINE L. D. S. GARMENTS Direct From Factory You are guaranteed unusual wear and satisfaction from Cutler Garments. They are made from the best long wearing, two combed yarns. Length $.75 No. 61 Ribbed Med. Hvy. Unbleached No. 68 Old style or new style % or Double CO a ee 1.75 long legs 85 No. 56 Ribbed Hvy. Cotton bleached 2.15 No. 74 Ribbed light wt. Cot...No 55 Ribbed Hvy Cot., Unbleached Double Back 2.15 No- 84 Rib. Lt. Med. Cot.. 1.35 No 27 Ribbed Med. Wt. 50% Wool 3.35 No. 63 Lt, Med Unbleached Double No. 39 Ribbed Hvy. Wt. 50%  No. 64 Ribbed Lt. Med. Cot... 1.35 Fine Wearing Rayon, Elbow and Knee length. No. 32 Silk and Wool 4.50 WHITE TEMPLE PANTS 8 oz. Heavy Duck $1.75 SPECIAL MISSIONARY DISCOUNTS In ordering garments please state if for men or women and if old or new styles are wanted. Also give bust, height and weight. SPECIAL—When you order three pair of garments at one time we allow you 15% discount on the third pair. Marking 15c. Postage Prepaid.; GARMENTS UNDERWEAR When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine No. 68 Ribbed ex. Light Cotton knee Ribbed Med. Hivy. Blessed... 1.78 Long Sleeves and Legs..................2.85 Ask for one of our folders describing the different services we offer. Troy LAUNDRY Hyland 190 | Distinctive Work . Office 319 S. Main St. Les INFAN TS a DR: CANNON''S 2% SOFT CURD BABY MILK Soft Curd Milk is a pure, sweet, unpasteurized milk—the ideal food for babies and all others requiring nourishment easily digestible. Certain cows of the famous Dr. Cannon Jersey herd have milk. It is delivered to Salt Lake homes fresh Class 'A' Milk is ideal for CLASS A MILK — FRESH DAILY
TEMPLE AND BURIAL CLOTHES COMPLETE SUITS FOR MEN AND WOMEN Variety of Grades and Prices. Prompt and Careful Attention To Mail—Telephone—Telegraph Orders Open Daily, 9 A. M.—5 P. M.
GENERAL BOARD RELIEF SOCIETY Phone Wasatch 3286, 29 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine
WASATCH
Been scientifically tested as producers of soft curd
CONTENTS
Portrait of Clarissa Smith Williams................................Frontispiece Tributes to Clarissa Smith Williams.......................................233 The European Missions.......................................................Arthur Mother...................................................Belle Watson Anderson 233 British National Council of Women........................................235 For the Salvation of a Nation.................................................236 Editorial—Ten Years of Suffrage.......................................... Some Things Women Can Do................................................ We are Proud of Both of You................................................ This Issue Devotes Space to Work in Missions.......................... Notes from the Field.......................................................... Faith of the Mothers....................................Linda S. Fletcher 249 Faith and Faithfulness Triumphant...............Lula Greene Richards 251 Spring Time.........................................Camille Cole Neuffer 260 Moral Teaching Through Home Work....................Milton Bennion 261 Questions in THEOLOGY.......................................................268 The Old Juniper Tree...............................Mrs. George Q. Rich 270 Child's Everyday Problems of Everyday Child..........Laig V. Hales 271 The Dawn of Hope for Saint and Sinner in the Life to Come......J. H. Paul 275
Organ of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints Room 20 Bishop's Bldg. Salt Lake City, Utah $1.00 a Year—Single Copy, 10c Foreign, $1.25 a Year—15c Single Copy Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah Phone Wasatch 3123
VOL. XVII MAY, 1930
PRESIDENT CLARISSA SMITH WILLIAMS
THE Relief Society Magazine VOL. XVII MAY, 1930 No. 5
Tributes to Clarissa Smith Williams
By Louise Y. Robison
CLARISSA Smith Williams—can I say more than that she was my ideal—friend, wife, mother, and Latter-day Saint. Her poise, which brought peace and calm; her devotion to husband and children, that unusual devotion which not only served but stimulated in others the desire to serve; the gracious hospitality, making all happy in her presence; her wise counsel and absolutely just decision; loyalty to friends, devotion to Relief Society and the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints—these are the characteristics that made Sister Williams admired as a beautiful example for all women.
By Amy Brown Lyman
THE grave has won no victory in the death of Clarissa Smith Williams. Her fine character, her excellent example, and her lovely personality, which have so enriched the lives of thousands, will not be forgotten; and her numerous good works will live as a monument to her memory and an inspiration to others. She has but passed from mortality to immortality, where she will enjoy her reward and the fulfilment of her highest desires.
Sister Williams was one of God's noble women, rich in life's greatest assets—faith in God and fellowman, faith in family and home, faith in friends and associates. Honest, outspoken, straight-forward. She shunned hypocrisy, sham, and deceit. Brave and courageous in defending the right, she was true and loyal to every trust. With all she was humble, gentle, kind, possessing rare culture, refinement, and poise. She was free from those devastating complexes of mind and soul which block natural responses and honest action, and which mar and destroy personality.
Both in length of service and in quality, her humanitarian work was unique. For over half a century she devoted herself without a break to Relief Society work striving for health opportunity. Normal, living and working conditions, for educational facilities and spiritual development.
Clarissa Smith Williams was the ideal of the women of the great Relief Society over whom she presided. Her fine soul qualities found response in their hearts and her name will linger with them forever.
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
By Julia A. Child
"WHEN a great man dies, For years beyond his ken The light he leaves behind him Shines upon the paths of men."
The foregoing stanza applies also to women. It finds exemplification in the influence exerted during life, and abiding with us still, of our beloved president, leader, and sister, Clarissa S. Williams.
She was by inheritance a natural leader, possessing those rare qualities of personality that inspire respect and confidence. In her life she practiced both justice and mercy. With her superior intelligence there was always a human sympathy that warmed the hearts of her associates. Thus, with Sister Williams, leadership was easy, natural, and always large and inspiring. She was a friend who seemed to understand the needs and hopes of others. By example and by precept she "allured to brighter worlds and led the way."
By Julia A. F. Lund
IT has been said that the supreme achievement of knowledge is the discovery of unity. Applied to life and character, this means the harmonious blending of all those qualities that make living the finest of the fine arts. This unity has certainly, to a very marked degree, found expression in the rare personality of Clarissa Smith Williams.
Service to State and Nation were quite as marked in their fields as her achievements in Relief Society, and in the higher and more sacred calling, within the home. Hers was certainly a life of three dimensions: its strength was dependent upon the physical rhythms she always maintained in the march of progress; its breadth was secured by the extent of her interests and the range of her activities; the depth was secured by her abiding vision and her high idealism.
Loyal, patriotic, tender, true: a rare blending of the practical with the spiritual; a public servant, a friend, a wife, a mother. Great in each, and in all—"Hers a life without a stain, a fame without a flaw."
By Jennie B. Knight
IF writing were as easy as loving President Williams, my tribute would readily be expressed. When I saw her first, she impressed me as a wise and gracious leader. This impression ripened into knowledge during the years that I was privileged to work with her, first as a vice-president on the Woman's Committee State Council of National Defense, then as her first counselor in the National Woman's Relief Society.
Momentous was the occasion when in 1917 the government entrusted to women the leadership of the war work of the women of America. Mrs. Williams was chairman for Utah. In this position she proved to be trained to the leadership of women, sympathetic with women's ways of thinking, experienced with their methods of work, and anxious for the welfare of women, sons, and husbands. Periodically, as her committee met with the men's division in the Governor's room at the State Capitol, her reports and recommendations were given with queenly dignity and received with consideration and respect.
To her I owe a lasting debt for seven and a half
TRIBUTES TO CLARISSA SMITH WILLIAMS
abundant years, full of opportunity, rich in experiences and happy contacts with noble people, many of these in the humbler walks of life, others of national and international repute. She was deliberate, just, wise, and appreciative, with the rare gift of making all who labored with her feel that their position was an important one and that each had the ability to accomplish the task assigned. She was, in very deed, a queen.
By Emma A. Empey
DURING my association with Sister Clarissa S. Williams, which dates back more than twenty years, I have learned to love and appreciate the splendid qualities of character which contributed to make of her what she was—a true and sympathetic friend, a wise counselor, an honored and beloved leader of the women of the Relief Society.
She had served in every department of the organization, from visiting teacher to General President, and was familiar with every phase of the work. She understood the problems of the Ward President; and the vision she had of what might be accomplished under certain conditions, made her eager for more education and training among Relief Society women. To equip them better for their work she gave careful consideration to every suggestion for better methods.
She was especially sympathetic with little children. The physically handicapped and the neglected child claimed her special care. As a hostess in her home and to her friends she was gracious and charming, and to the stranger kind and attentive. In my intimate association with her I have never heard her speak unkindly of any one. My heart is filled with deep gratitude as I contemplate the life and labors of this superior woman, and count what it has meant to me to have known her and to call her my friend.
By Sarah M. McLelland
THE opportunity of paying a tribute to the memory of Sister Clarissa S. Williams I sincerely appreciate. As a close associate for many years in the activities of the General Board of the Relief Society, I admire her for her many noble qualities, and learned to love her for her own dear self. She was always tolerant and just, appreciative of any labor performed in the great cause of humanity, and loyal to her God, her family, and the Relief Society work. Only those really in earnest and consecrated to their task can do this. God blessed her efforts.
By Anne Wells Cannon
A FITTING tribute would I lay upon this shrine of tender remembrance. You were a friend to my girlhood, a companion of my youth, and for many years a coworker and associate in the great organization of the Relief Society. Always ready and quick to learn, you were foremost among your schoolmates. You possessed an unusual and logical mind, were gifted with fine intelligence, and with it all manifested an obedience to authority and a willingness to serve.
You were the first of Utah's native daughters to wear the mantle of the "Elect Lady." You were a worthy daughter of the pioneers, and your reverence for God's priesthood and your early training prepared you for this high calling. For your many attributes of mind and heart, many will arise and call you blessed.
Your hospitality sent a warm glow to the friend who entered your door, as bright and cheery as the red coals
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
in an open fire-place on a cloudy day. Your wifely devotion and glorious motherhood stands pre-eminent, an example to all women for unselfish love and tenderness. Your dignified and gracious bearing marked you as a leader among women. In my heart will linger always the memory of your genial smile, the clasp of your velvet hand, and all your ways of friendliness.
By Lalene H. Hart
FROM the school of experience into a higher sphere of learning a beautiful, queenly mother has passed with honors, there to continue in eternal progress. A mother whose motherly love and devotion extended far beyond her own home. Because of the loss of her companionship and wise counsel her passing has filled many hearts with sadness. But out of this sorrow will come sweet memories and great joy because of lives nobly enriched through her influence.
Sister Williams was a tower of strength and inspiration. Her culture, poise, dignity, personality, and leadership made her an outstanding woman in the home, the church, the community, and the nation. To those with less experience in the great Relief Society work over which she so graciously presided, she extended generously her sympathy, confidence, and encouragement. Her vision and her supreme desire to have the work, so dear to her and so vital to humanity, advance, gave others a new stimulus to measure up to the high ideals she had attained.
Her womanly power and strength meant much to those in deep sorrow, in abounding joy, or in perplexing situations. On all occasions she manifested the same sweet spirit and kindly attitude. To those whose hearts were filled with unspoken appreciation for her, she instinctively knew that they silently loved and honored her. Hers was a noble work, and the world needs many such mothers. It was a wonderful privilege to know and to serve with her.
By Lotta Paul Baxter
IN the death of Clarissa S. Williams one of the greatest women of modern times was taken from us. She was a friend of women. All women of her acquaintance felt her interest in them and her desire to make them happier by making surrounding conditions better. Filled with sympathy and understanding of the difficulties that beset women in remote places, she was thinking constantly of something to benefit them.
She was the friend of children. Under-privileged children received her first attention. To them she sought to give expression to their latent abilities, which could be developed only by special training.
She was my friend. When work was to be done, the different assignments were made; and although little was said, we knew we were expected to do our best. If we failed
TRIBUTES TO CLARISSA SMITH WILLIAMS
or partially failed, Sister Williams sympathized, encouraged, and sent us forth again, with a buoyant confidence that we could make good. In our minds there was never any doubt or question as to the justice of her decisions. Even when they were against us we felt that they were right. My debt of gratitude to her can never be repaid; she inspired me to live my better-self.
By Cora L. Bennion
SISTER Clarissa Smith Williams was an outstanding example of the two great principles of religion—love of God and love of humanity. Her heart was full of unfailing love for all mankind. Her unselfish devotion to the Church and to the work of the Relief Society was and still is a constant inspiration to those engaged in this great cause.
In her nature, Sister Williams was deeply spiritual. Devoted to truth and right, she was yet slow to condemn offenders. Her attitude toward them was that of charity. Always ready to forgive, she would pray for those who were in need of moral and spiritual strength. She was socially intelligent, refined and gentle in manner, yet humble as a little child. It was a real privilege to have an intimate association with Sister Williams. To be in her presence was an inspiration. She made us feel that we wanted to do our part and do it well. We will always cherish her memory.
By Amy W. Evans
TO me one of the outstanding characteristics of Clarissa S. Williams was her public-spiritedness, her vision of usefulness to others. This is to be seen in all she did toward building up our communities in health, education, and in spirituality. During her presidency of the Relief Society, funds were set aside in honor of those who had served at the head of the organization. These were all "living monuments," as she herself used to say. They served a useful purpose,—to encourage the writing of poetry among our women, to aid young women to become nurses, to do Temple work for the dead, to help girls to receive an education, to aid young women to train as public health nurses and social workers. Through her influence the wheat interest fund is being used to promote and insure the health of women and children throughout our Church. She always sought service in the forward-looking larger way. The bread she cast upon the waters will return every day forever.
By Ethel R. Smith
TRULY in the face of one's holiest feelings we are mute. Words cannot be found to express my love and admiration for Clarissa Smith Williams, and the joy and happiness that came into my life through knowing and associating with her. Before becoming a member of the General Board, I had known Sister Williams only as a charming, gracious, distant relative of my husband's family; had learned also somewhat of her accomplishments. However it was not until I
became intimately associated with her that I began to realize her worth. Sister Williams' love for her fellow workers, and her desire to show her love, made each member of her board rejoice in the possession of her confidence and friendship. Each Wednesday afternoon, the time when the board meetings were held, became an event looked forward to, and each opportunity to be with her
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
was a choice and happy experience. Each time we left her presence, we left filled with inspiration to become better, nobler women. Her dignity, fearlessness, wisdom, justice, and her tender, impartial love made her co-workers ardently desire the opportunity to serve her. Her passing has left sorrow in our hearts, a void in our lives, but also a beautiful, loving memory of a noble woman.
By Rosannah C. Irvine
WOMANHOOD and the Cause. These are two great things to be thankful for in the life of Clarissa Smith Williams. True womanhood and the cause of truth she upheld throughout her life. Far better than a shaft of marble or mausoleum of stone in commemoration of her deeds, is the love of sixty thousand women, on whose hearts is engraved, in tender reverence, this name: "Our President."
Unlike many whose lives are cast in pleasant places, Sister Williams did not grow weak and vacillating, but developed and retained the stalwart, invincible character which was her heritage. Her greatness was shown, not only in holding the hearts of her people with diplomacy and discretion, but in yielding graciously to what she acknowledged a higher authority than her own, even in the frustration of her fondest hopes. She sometimes met with opposition—what great soul does not?—but she accepted counsel or criticism as calmly and serenely as she accepted the affectionate regard of thousands. The power to attract love and devotion is the result of the ability to see and appreciate in others what is good and beautiful. Sister Williams had this rare gift. A happiness to have known her, a privilege to have been her friend, it is a blessing to have been permitted to work with her in the Cause she loved so well.
By Alice L. Reynolds
IT often becomes part of a leader's work to direct leaders. This is eminently true of the General Board of the Relief Society, with a membership of many women who formerly were at the head of Stake Boards. In the field of statecraft, many men have failed because they could not lead leaders. In this very thing, Clarissa Smith Williams was extraordinarily successful. The spirit of appreciation for those working with her radiated from her as warmth radiates from the sun, and as a consequence harmony prevailed. She presented her problems in a way that made appeal and brought at once to their support the efforts of a united Board. She had the gift of making those associated with her feel that she was genuinely interested in them and in the particular piece of work that they were striving to have succeed. She lived above the petty and sordid things of life, and inspired nobility in others. Her
TRIBUTES TO CLARISSA SMITH WILLIAMS
life was such as to suggest James Russell Lowell's tribute: "Earth's noblest thing, a Woman perfected." She was one of the most magnanimous women it has been my good fortune to know. An outstanding example of her magnanimity is seen in the fact that she established memorials to each of her predecessors, and that these memorials have in them the possibility of great good and benefit for others.
By Nettie D. Bradford
THOSE loved her most who knew her best. When I was a child, we lived on the same block with her in Salt Lake City; her mother was our Relief Society teacher. Her home life was ideal; her love for her good husband, her devotion to her family, was to me an inspiration. My first calling to Relief Society in a stake capacity was under her stake presidency; and it is pleasant to recall committee meetings in her home. Her daughters were most gracious to their mother's guests. A natural-born leader, she inspired in us confidence in our own abilities. She presided as stake president with the same kindly dignity that characterized her in the office of General President. Yet her dignity was no barrier to approach, when one sought help from her, neither was it alloyed with aloofness, for she remained her genuine self amidst her wonderful successes. Solicitous of the welfare of her board on their visits to the stakes, and attentive to reports when they returned, she respected our opinions, gave advice with perfect frankness, and thus commanded deep respect from her co-workers. She was wise in hearing and in weighing evidence before rendering decisions; but when rendered they were final. I esteem it a great privilege to have labored under her, for she meant so much to me.
By Elise B. Alder
OUR beloved and noble leader is gone. We have lost one of our greatest women. Referring to her birth, we find her descending from the same noble family that gave to the world the prophet Joseph Smith. Looking back upon the years of her past life, we find her ever valiant in Relief Society work—she has been connected with its every phase. George Eliot says: "The reward of one duty is the power to fulfil another;" and she has climbed the ladder step by step until the top in honor has been reached—that of the highest calling of woman in our Church, the president of the Woman's National Relief Society.
During her administration in this high calling, her chief concern, aside from her constant endeavor to be considerate of her co-workers, was a sincere desire to better the world by protecting the health of women and children. As we Board members travel through various stakes, brought vividly to our notice are the many hearts that have been filled with gratitude for the benefits they enjoy from her efforts in preventive and corrective welfare work. She has bequeathed to her Church a character that is a subject of admiration and gratitude.
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
By Inez K. Allen
AS a counselor to President Emmeline B. Wells in her declining years, Sister Williams was loyal, wise, and kind. As General Relief Society President, her very expression met response within me (then a Stake Relief Society President) that she was inspired by the wisdom of God, both as to content and manner of expression. Her attitude seemed that of a great mother. She was progressive, the Social service system which she inaugurated standing as a light on a hill for all the Relief Society. Because some women and little children suffered and died each year from lack of necessary care, her heart was touched; so when she called upon the Relief Society officers to direct the interest on the wheat fund for the health of women and children, there was not a dissenting vote.
As President of the Board, she was always gracious, considered well her utterances, was humble yet dignified. She enjoyed good humor, was sincere, and her hospitality was generous and charming. Lest the Relief Society should in any way suffer because of her failing health, she manifested courage when she asked to be released from the highest position any woman can hold in the Church. From my first association to the parting hour, she constantly rose higher and higher. Her last simple request that the board members give Sister Robison the same support they gave to her was sublime. Is it any wonder I love her?
By Ida Peterson Beal
THE sands of time in the hour glass of a noble life have run out, and dear Sister Clarissa S. Williams is with us no more. In her passing she is sincerely mourned and missed by the women of the Church, to whom she has given so abundantly of her time and energy. To them she has left a legacy more valuable than riches. Her life was a daily example of her teachings—"true worth is in being, not in seeming."
Sister Williams was richly endowed by nature with a remarkable mind. She was an eager student always, maintaining "that one is never too old to learn." Leadership was one of her outstanding qualifications, amply manifested in her labors as president of the Relief Society. The secret of her marvelous success has been her vision and devotion to duty. Simply, directly, tenderly, yet efficiently, she administered the affairs of this great organization. She did not misread the responsibility of her great calling, but with patience and humility her constant anxiety was how she could best help and serve those who were beset with sorrow and suffering. Lives have been enriched and ennobled by coming in contact with this good woman. Generously she gave of her great love, and in rich measure love came back to her.
The European Missions
FROM Mrs. Leah D. Widtsoe, President of the Relief Society of the European Missions, come interesting letters, reports, and pamphlets indicating how the work is going in these European centers. A spirit of interest characterizes the reports and explanations. In a farsighted and interesting program Mrs. Widtsoe's aids in the various missions are ably cooperating with her.
In a Conference of Relief Society Presidents, held at Durham House, 295 Edge Lane, Liverpool, from August 16-21, 1929, plans were made for the work of the following year. At the Conference were Sisters Leah D. Widtsoe, European Missions; Ida A. Petersen, Danish Mission; Rose Ellen B. Valentine, German-Austrian Mission; Eliza W. Tadje, Swiss-German Mission; Signe L. Hulterstrom, Swedish Mission; Josephine B. Lund, British Mission; Margaret A. Jensen, Norwegian Mission; Lillian D. Lillywhite, Netherlands Mission; also Elders C. Lowell Lees, acting as head of all the auxiliary work of the French Mission, and Juel L. Andreasen, of the Danish Mission.
The resolutions are so interesting that we are including the first fourteen:
Roll and Minutes:
1. A European Mission roll book shall be kept for future conferences; entries of the past three conferences are to be made. The minutes of the Conferences shall also be filed and kept.
2. The general policy of the conduct and courses of study of the Relief Society and other auxiliary work shall be in step with that of the Church, varying only as may be necessary to meet especial mission needs.
3. These changes where necessary, are to be regularly reported to Church Auxiliary Headquarters that the General Boards may be entirely acquainted with the reason for our departure from the outline of work adopted by the Church.
Mission Co-Ordination: 4. All the European Missions shall be harmonious with each other in their Relief Society and other auxiliary work—as to lessons and general outlines of procedure. The adopted course may be varied only as may be necessary to meet a peculiar condition which may arise and after consultation with the European officers. Any change in policy is to be reported to the European office.
5. The Relief Society as an organization for woman's advancement should be conducted by the women as much as possible, always with the sanction and blessing of the Priesthood. The Elders and brethren shall be called for help only as an emergency may arise, or a special need exists.
6. Each mission is to collect all data of past Relief Society activity by the end of 1930. That is to be our centennial contribution.
7. The uniform roll and minute book for local use is to be ready for use in all missions by January 1st, 1930.
8. Visiting teachers shall be encouraged in all missions and their work emphasized. A uniform book for teachers' use is to be prepared for each mission. Suitable teacher topics are to be printed each month.
9. The European office is to be, in fact, a "clearing house," an inspirational center for all the missions. When material is prepared for one mission's need, a copy shall be sent to all missions in case of similar need.
10. A copy of all material prepared by the missions for local needs shall be sent to the European office. When advisable, the European office may send such suggestions to other missions as may help them in a similar condition.
Lessons: 11. For 1930 all Relief Society and auxiliary lessons shall be uniform and shall be sent from the European office in time for use in all missions. The Relief Society lesson work shall be divided into a Winter program of 10 months; a Summer program of 2 months. During the Summer, the sisters may sew at every meeting to prepare for Fall Bazaars.
12. The officers pledge themselves to see that all refreshments served under Relief Society auspices shall be Word of Wisdom foods. All harmful drinks, including coca-cola, shall be forbidden, we should emphasize the health drinks to take their place. The use of natural foods and simple refreshments shall be encouraged.
13. The Relief Society of each branch where baptisms are performed are to prepare and keep on hand, two or more sets of baptismal clothes, for young and old, to be used by those who need them, and to prevent the necessity of purchase for the one event.
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
Pageant of Woman's Works: 14. A pageant depicting woman's participation in the founding and history of the Church shall be given as part of the 1929 celebration. Competition to be called for by January 1st, 1930, and given out by January 15th.
IN the lessons on health outlined for the missions there is so much farsightedness that we devote some space to this topic. The lessons have been put out under the caption of Word of Wisdom Lessons. Conditions in England among the working people, whose incomes are small, suggest that the people are undernourished and that the food that they have is out of harmony with health laws. While they have been in the habit of eating concentrated food such as "meat and pudding," their diet as a whole contains very little milk, fruit or green vegetables. Mrs. Widtsoe is well prepared to put over a program on nutrition; practically all her life she has been interested in such problems, and has had special training for the work; and her plan would naturally include the Word of Wisdom.
In a report forwarded to President Louise Y. Robison, she says, "That's why we have rather emphasized the Word of Wisdom: That's why I've emphasized the spending of the little they do have for foods that build the body—its bone, muscle, and nerve tissue—as cheaply as possible. Most of their food is imported and reaches them so devitalized and commercialized that it may be shipped from earth's ends."
The women are enjoying the nutrition lessons, and are waking up with new interest. A number
THE EUROPEAN MISSIONS
of people have come under Sister Widtsoe's notice who are reaping untold benefits, who are better fed on less money, and have an unlooked-for increase of pep and vigor. All the European Missions are giving the Word of Wisdom lessons with similar results. The work is fundamental moral fitness and intellectual fitness, being closely related to physical fitness.
It has been our good fortune to spend time in England at three different periods; we therefore recognize that conditions among the people of that country are such, that they badly need lessons on nutrition. Often tea is made to substitute for practically all the nutritive foods that are necessary to build the body. It is gratifying to know that Sister Widtsoe and her aids have planned a program so worth while and helpful.
Mother Belle Watson Anderson
They told me you had gone away, They told me, Dear, you died; I since have learned the claims of death, But you stayed by my side.
Sometimes they called me motherless, And acted strange or sad; Yet all the while I had your smile And you to make me glad.
They spoke of your important work, Upon a distant sphere; Yet every hour, I feel your power, Guiding me ever here.
They knew that we were lonely, Dear, I here, and you above; But every day in your sweet way You cheer me with your love.
They do not know you come to me— You, and not another; That God moves heavenly gates apart And gives to me—My Mother.
British National Council of Women
FROM October 14 to 18 the City of Manchester, England, was host to the British National Council of Women. Mrs. Leah D. Widtsoe, President of the Relief Society of the European Mission was appointed a delegate from the Liverpool Branch to the British National Council of Women, whose sessions were held in Albert Hall, Manchester, the "Manchester and Salford Woman Citizen" has this to say of the sessions:
"The program of the various public meetings, the subject for which, taking advantage of a comprehensive grouping under the title of 'Modern Developments,' cover a wide field of interests, is a most attractive one. A study of the subjects chosen for consideration by this conference of women delegates reveals the keen interest taken by them in aspects of modern life which are not exclusively feminine but which affect the home and the community and therefore men and women alike. With one exception all the subjects for the public meetings are of this character. One session is to be devoted to the general effect of broadcasting, the broadcasting of music and the influences of broadcasting in the home and the school: another is for the discussion of the two recent reports on police procedure and on street offences. The third open session is to deal with recent developments in child guidance and with the influence of the cinema, while the last is concerned with the preservation of the countryside. Such subjects command the attention of all who are concerned with our national well-being. The agenda of resolutions which will be discussed at the delegates' meetings show, as would be expected, a predominant concern with women's interests in public affairs, though here, too, there are references to matters of general interest, such as contamination of food, legal aid for poor prisoners, and slum clearance. Resolutions upon such important questions as the need for more women on local government bodies, the request for information on methods of birth control at maternity and child welfare centres, women property managers, etc., are in the true tradition of the National Council of Women, and show there is still need for vigilance on the part of women's societies in matters especially affecting women. There is an imposing list of distinguished speakers, men and women, and altogether the Conference promises to be of exceptional interest."
My Love By Vinna H. Lichfeld
With spreading fields in balmy air, My love is with the sunset glow, Its sacred moods, that I may know, With spreading fields in balmy air, With humming bee and song of bird And sunshine everywhere.
For the Salvation of a Nation Women play an important part in the opening of new mission.
By Arthur Gaeth, President of Czechoslovak Mission
LAST July another chapter in the spreading of the gospel among the people of the earth was begun. The first missionaries were sent to Czechoslovakia to lay a foundation for the promulgation of the Lord's message among the Czechs, so that eventually they and all their Slavic brethren, in Poland, Jugoslavia, Russia, Bulgaria and the other Balkan countries, might hear His voice.
The Part Taken By Women
FOR some time it had been the aim of the authorities of the Church to open a mission among these people, but the earnest pleading of a mother and her daughters that their countrymen might also be permitted to hear the gospel, no doubt carried great weight and was an impetus to speed a decision.
On the 24th of July, 1929, the Czechoslovak Mission was dedicated under the direction of Apostle John A. Widtsoe; Arthur Gaeth was appointed its first president. Five other brethren, Elders Alvin C. Carlson, Joseph I. Hart, Willis Hayward, Wallace F. Toronto and Charles Josie, were stationed in Prague with Elder Gaeth to begin their labors of opening up the new field.
These brethren have since partaken of the cheerful hospitality of Sister Franziska Brodil and her family, and have felt their wonderful spirit. To them the gospel has come as a blessing for their years of faithfulness. In Czechoslovakia they were without the companionship of missionaries and had to undergo trials and hardships. They have an interesting story to tell. Let the readers of the Relief Society Magazine hear it from Sister Brodil's own lips.
A Story of Conversion
ONE day she related to me the following story: "I was born on the 12th of January, 1881, the daughter of a miller in a little village in southern Bohemia. The youngest girl in a family of ten children, and growing up in a typical rural Bohemian environment, I was blessed with a mother who had the disposition of an angel and was very religious. My father, on the other hand, although very intelligent, was a licentious, carefree, brutal type of man, causing my mother untold sorrow and tribulation. Her face was sorrowful from a grief we could not comprehend. Only the older children knew and imparted to us later that she had often been on the verge of ending her life, but her faith in God and the thought of us ten children held her back. We loved and worshipped her, and she was surrounded by all of us when she bid us goodbye for the last time. We laid her to rest in the little village cemetery. We were her entire joy in life, and it is entirely to her credit that we all are living straightforward, honest lives. Father's negligence, on the other hand, ruined him. Forced to sell the mill, he died in poverty, alone and broken.
Shortly after mother passed away, I went when about 18 years old to Vienna to live with my oldest sister. It was not difficult for me to leave the little country town; I had never experienced the love of a good home there as I have since felt it now that I have two children of my own and learned to know into what a haven home can be made. In Vienna I soon became acquainted with my future husband, marrying him in February, 1904.
How She Joined the Church
FROM early childhood I had been blessed with religious inclinations. When the priest read Bible passages and delivered his sermons, I learned the passages by heart, and could tell, almost verbatim, what the sermons contained. When I went to Vienna, I began to read the Bible, finding many interesting things in it, but also some that caused me to wonder. From the lives of the supposed representatives of Jesus Christ with whom I was acquainted, I could perceive that there was a difference between Christ's teachings and their interpretation. They were using the teachings as a sham to carry out their own evil designs. These things disturbed me, and I began to wonder if there really was a God; and if there was, where his Prophets were. The responsibility of my children deepened this feeling, but the Lord willed that I should not be kept in ignorance much longer.
ONE day a young man who came to the door offered me a little pamphlet that I was at first unwilling to take; but he finally prevailed upon me. Reading it with some misgiving, I soon found its message wholesome. When he returned with
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
a second tract, I began to read with deeper interest. This brought him and his companion to my home repeatedly, and I soon discovered a large difference between the work of God and that of man. I was receiving an answer to my question, Is there a prophet of God upon the earth? Missionaries of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints were quenching the thirst for truth of another soul.
After visiting the meetings in Vienna, I soon became a member, being baptized by Brother B. H. Bennion on September 29, 1911.
The Great War Calamity
MY heart now swelled with a feeling of satisfaction, and at my confirmation I felt myself filled with a new power. The next few months were indeed happy ones; then it seemed as if a wet, dark blanket had been placed over the entire affair. The World War broke out, the missionaries were called home, and all the brethren went to war. A handful of sisters remaining in Vienna conducted our meetings. With Bible classes held regularly, we tried to do our part, but those were trying times. Often we lacked the meager necessities of life. The last two years of the war were so horrible that we almost died from starvation. Bread, potatoes, and a few vegetables were doled out to us, but never was there enough for a healthy meal. We managed somehow to live through it; but when we came out of it, we were mere skeletons compared with what we were when we entered the war.
Then followed an upheaval of governments and a revolution, resulting in the organization of the Czechoslovak State. All those of Czech nativity in Austrian governmental
FOR THE SALVATION OF A NATION
positions were thrown out of work, and my husband soon found himself without employment. The Czech government promised to transport all these people to their own confines and give them work, but several months passed before anything happened. My husband, a musician and an official, was of a temperamental nature, and the worry of finding means wherewith to provide for his family caused him much suffering. When we were finally moved to Prague in Czechoslovakia, he was already a sick man. Placed in a hospital for some months, he finally passed away, leaving me alone with my two children. He had not been prepared to receive the gospel, although he was always a friend of the Church; but I have the greatest hopes that salvation will come to him on the other side.
Return of the Elders
TRYING indeed were the next years. I was alone in Prague, with no friends and with two children who still had to be sent to school. My brother in South America came to my rescue and sent me the money that enabled me to send my children on through school. Several years passed, and though we heard little of the Church, we continued to live according to its commandments. Finally, one day, we were visited by President Serge Ballif and Brother Niederhauser of the Vienna Branch; and on the 3d of June, 1921, my two daughters, Franziska and Jana, were baptized in the Vitava (Moldau), thus becoming the first two members to be baptized on Czech soil. These brethren brought encouragement, saying that they would soon send us missionaries so that we should not be alone. I received other encouragements, but no brethren came for some years.
WHEN President Fred Tadje came to preside over the German Mission with headquarters at Dresden, visits to Prague were more frequent, missionaries stopping off in Prague to see us on their way from Dresden to Vienna. Then I became seriously ill. Brother Sheets was called from Vienna to administer to me, but I did not get well. One day Brother Jean Wunderlich came from Dresden. He laid his hands upon my head and promised me that I would not die, but would again be well and strong, for I still had a great work to do on this earth. After that I recovered, and was much encouraged.
For some time we figured that with President Tadje's release in 1926, something would be done through the Church at home; but again the months passed. Then we were visited by Apostle James E. Talmage and President and Sister Valentine. They held a wonderful meeting with us, and we had a long conversation on the subject of missionaries; but the time was not yet ripe. In February, 1928, old Brother Thomas Biesinger, 84 years of age, was sent to Prague. He came, and going to the officials discovered that no difficulties would be placed in the path of the missionaries if they wished to come. The constitution allowed absolute religious freedom. Two and a half months later he was released to return home and no one was sent to take his place. That was our darkest hour, for we knew that there were no obstacles in the path of the missionaries, yet they did not come.
238 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
THE BRODIL FAMILY, PRAGUE, CZECHOSLOVAKIA
Opening of the Mission
THEN I received a thought. I would write to the First Presidency. We wrote a letter and inclosed it with one to Brother Jean Wunderlich, asking him to translate it into English. From him I soon received word that he had done so. With the encouragement that work in South America had been opened in somewhat the same manner, a plea was sent in by some of the members there. Soon we received our first communication from President Widtsoe, in which he asked for definite information concerning conditions in the country. We wrote to and received frequent letters from President Widtsoe, till one day the word came that missionaries would be with us the following summer. We were inclined to doubt; but when Brother Arthur Hasler, President of the Vienna District, returned from the Priesthood Centennial of the German-Austrian Mission in Leipzig in May, 1929, he stopped in Prague and brought us the joyful news that Brother Arthur Gaeth had been appointed by President Widtsoe to come to Prague and start investigations for the immediate opening of the Czechoslovak Mission. When Brother Gaeth came two days later, this hope was fulfilled, but we could hardly believe our eyes. Soon President Widtsoe was also in our midst, and five missionaries came from the Swiss-German and German-Austrian Mission. On the 24th of July, 1929, the pioneer work in Czechoslovakia was performed and this country became a mission of the Church. Few people can realize the joy we experienced, for we have been praying for years for this day. There are thousands of our countrymen who are waiting for the gospel, and it is our prayer that the Lord will help our brethren to learn the language so that they can impart the message to them. We thank the Lord from the bottom of our hearts."
Sister Franziska Brodil Prague, Czechoslovakia.
FOR THE SALVATION OF A NATION 239
The Work Progresses
TO people such as these we young brethren came in July, 1929. They were overjoyed to see us. That longing look for help soon left their eyes as they put their shoulders to the wheel and helped to open many a door in the preliminary work of getting established in Prague. They were able assistants to us in the language. Sister Brodil, assisted by her two daughters, teaches our Sunday School in Czech. The mother has provided her children with a very liberal education, so that they speak Czech and German perfectly, and also understand and speak English well. The Lord had prepared the field and they were able to do translating for us. But above all, they have been as a mother and sisters to six young missionaries who were sent into a new environment, with a new language to learn. We have three wonderful members here, to whom in our difficulties, we can turn for help and consolation. Their sweet spirits are a fountain of strength. Six brethren are indeed thankful to the Lord that these sisters live in Prague and that they have been permitted to partake of their hospitality, their wonderful spirit and testimony.
Evidence By Alberta H. Christensen
Spring slipped into my garden plot last night On slender, noiseless feet. I did not hear her footstep on the grass, Or know the hour of coming—see her pass, But lo today thru my broad window pane I see an apple tree aflame With perfumed loveliness, all white And pinkish, with a touch of green Poking its timid self between The velvet clusters.
Spring slipped into my heart last night, I know, With gentle, tender tread. I did not hear her knock upon the door; A warmer clasp of hand there was, no more. But lo today my heart brims o'er with song— A melody all glad and wild and strong. Although I did not see her come or go, Spring came last night—I know, I know.
THE RELIEF SOCIETY OF THE CHURCH OF JESUS CHRIST OF LATTER-DAY SAINTS
Motto—Charity Never Faileth
THE GENERAL BOARD
MRS. LOUISE YATES ROBISON - - - - President MRS. AMY BROWN LYMAN - - - - First Counselor
MRS. JULIA ALLEMAN CHILD - - - - Second Counselor MRS. JULIA A. F. LUND - - - - General Secretary and Treasurer
Mrs. Emma A. Empey Miss Sarah M. McLelland Mrs. Annie Wells Cannon Mrs. Jennie B. Knight Mrs. Lalene H. Hart Mrs. Lotta Paul Baxter Mrs. Cora L. Bennion Mrs. Elise B. Alder Mrs. Amy Whipple Evans Mrs. Inez K. Allen Mrs. Ethel Reynolds Smith Mrs. Ida P. Beal Mrs. Rosannah C. Irvine Miss Alice Louise Reynolds Mrs. Kate M. Barker Mrs. Nettie D. Bradford Mrs. Hazel H. Greenwood Mrs. Marcia K. Howells Mrs. Emeline Y. Nebeker Mrs. Lizzie Thomas Edwards, Music Director
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
Editor - - - - - ALICE LOUISE REYNOLDS Manager - - - - - LOUISE Y. ROBISON Assistant Manager - - - - - AMY BROWN LYMAN
Room 20, Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah
Magazine entered as second-class matter at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah.
VOL. XVII MAY, 1930 No. 5
EDITORIAL
Ten Years of Suffrage
ON Wednesday, March 26, Mrs. Carrie Chapman Catt, President of the American Suffrage Association, spoke from the National Broadcasting Studio in New York. Her address commemorated the passage, ten years ago, of the Federal Suffrage Amendment in the Senate of the United States.
Any thought of suffrage recalls the great struggle: the forty years' devotion of Susan B. Anthony, the years of work of Anna Howard Shaw, and the distinguished service of Carrie Chapman Catt, now seventy years of age. Of necessity there was much sacrifice, much humiliation, and much fatigue along the way; but it was a glorious struggle, and glorious has been its consummation.
It presented a situation in which tragedy and comedy often mingled. At one time, when suffrage leaders were before the Senate Judiciary Committee urging that the amendment be presented to Congress, one of the members of the Committee said, he did not think women wanted suffrage. "For instance," he said, "my wife does not want suffrage." His wife, sitting by Anna Howard Shaw, promptly said, "I do want suffrage, and he knows it. I have told him so again and again." To which Dr. Shaw answered, "Tell him once more."
IT was our privilege to be at the National Suffrage Convention of 1918, held in St. Louis. Three things made it notable. First, the
EDITORIAL 241
Convention was celebrating the fiftieth year of suffrage in Wyoming, which was the first state to receive suffrage. Secondly, the state of Missouri passed a Suffrage Bill during that session, and Missouri was farther south than any other state that had granted suffrage up to that time. Thirdly, Mrs. Catt delivered there one of the notable speeches of her life. This is no idle remark; we feel sure that competent judges would vote her one of the best speakers in America. On this particular evening, Anna Howard Shaw introduced Mrs. Catt in the following language: "And now it is my privilege and pleasure to introduce to you a woman who is the peer of any man in America."
It is perhaps sufficient to remark that while there was on that program a Governor noted for his ability as a speaker, no other address that evening won the applause from the audience or the favorable and unusual comments from the press that the address of Carrie Chapman Catt received.
Behind these great leaders stood a host of patriotic, struggling, determined women. Many deserve special mention, which our limited space will not permit. To all who contributed their talent and energy in the leadership of this great movement, as well as to all who cooperated with those who led, we express undying gratitude.
Some Things Women Can Do
IN the days of good Queen Elizabeth the idea of taking a census began. People were suspicious—loath to give statistics to government officials. Since that time, they have learned that the first step toward remedying an evil is to recognize it. Statistics are the basis upon which most reform movements are founded. They are the means wherewith governments collect the information that enables them to make comparisons. Facts in regard to disease, mortality and crime, as well as many things that are of an encouraging nature, make a census invaluable. It is a mark of intelligence to cooperate whole heartedly with the census enumerators by answering their questions as quickly and accurately as possible.
WHILE we are talking about the census, may we add a word about the prohibition poll conducted by the Literary Digest. It is usually conceded that women are the heartiest supporters of prohibition. Yet some have been careless about the ballots that have been sent them. Those desiring the repeal of the 18th amendment are militant, hence those who desire the amendment enforced must be militant also. Indifference and carelessness are ineffective weapons with which to maintain the right.
We are Proud of Both of You
TO Mrs. Bertha A. Kleinman, who has done such splendid work on the pageant we extend
242 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
heartiest congratulation. It is a matter of distinct pride to the women of the Church that she should have been called from her home in Arizona to put into rhythmical form many of the lines that are so enchanting a part of the Centennial pageant. We have always been glad to publish Mrs. Kleinman's poems in the Relief Society Magazine, for we say without hesitation that she is one of the most gifted of our writers. When we selected a group of Latter-day Saint women for our lesson work, Mrs. Kleinman was one of the first to be listed. The quality of her work made her selection inevitable. We hope that this pageant will be at least the nucleus of a piece of enduring art which will be a monument to the talent and spirit of the Latter-day Saints.
NEXT we wish to congratulate Mrs. Florence Jepperson Madsen, who for two years has been the musical director of the "Mission Play," produced at San Gabriel, California. The play is put on at a theater, built at a cost of $1,000,000. Its three-thousandth performance was given February 17, 1930. It has been running for nineteen years and during the season has been produced once each day. So far as is known, it has had the longest run of any play yet produced. Its author is Dr. John Stephan McGroarty, nationally famous writer and at present a member of the staff of the Los Angeles Times. At the special performance in February each person paid $100.00 for his ticket. We are certainly proud that two of our Latter-day Saint women have made such outstanding contributions to two pieces of art born of the life of the great West, and dear to the heart of the West.
This Issue Devotes Space to Work in Missions
FOR a number of years the May Magazine has been devoted to a Mother's Day issue. This year we feel that our readers will welcome in its stead an issue placing emphasis on the work in the Missions. That the Latter-day Saints Missions are gaining in importance year by year is evident from the fact that the Saints are no longer advised to emigrate, but rather to build up strong Branches and Conferences in their own native lands. Consequently they go at their work with great zeal; and while the scope is not so great as in the Wards and Stakes at home, the Spirit behind it is intense, full of ardor, full of interest. Nowhere is there a better exemplification of the promise of the Lord that where a few would gather in his name, he would be there also, than in the work of the various auxiliary organizations in the mission field. We are happy, therefore, to include in this issue something in relation to the work of various missions.
Notes from the Field
Southern States Mission
SISTER Grace E. Callis, president of the Southern States Relief Society, reports the following:
"WE have closed a year in which the sisters have found joy and nearness to the Lord by proving the truth of the old saying that actions speak louder than words, especially when it comes to looking after the wants and needs of the poor and needy, ministering to the sick and afflicted, and comforting the sorrowing. When people are ill, they ponder the gospel; and under these conditions visiting teachers feel free to preach the gospel to strangers, and conversions have been the result.
"Four new Societies have been organized. This action came in response to the request of women who are anxious to be engaged in the Relief Society work. It gives them an opportunity to minister to the poor and sick, and to show sympathy to the afflicted.
FINDING homes for orphans, giving material aid to enable crippled children to receive surgical treatment by specialists, and furnishing new chapels, are some of the outstanding services that our Societies have given this past year.
"The sisters in historic Charleston, South Carolina, with praiseworthy planning and diligence, have raised the sum of $333.00 to help purchase a lot, upon which the Church will build a chapel. During the Christmas season the spirit of kindness, which is the soul of Relief Society work, was given expression by the Societies in sending baskets of provisions to the poor, remembering the widows, and providing Christmas trees to Sunday School children.
"The new record book is especially adapted to conditions here, and is sincerely appreciated. The lessons, instructions, and articles in the Relief Society Magazine inspire us to keep in harmony with the spirit and genius of the work. Interest and membership are growing. How thankful we should be that the Lord has a work for his daughters to do, and that while charity begins at home, it ought not and does not end there."
Northwestern States Mission
FROM Sister Pearl C. Sloan, of the Northwestern States Mission comes this cheering message:
"We are much pleased over our annual reports. We note the increase in all activities, especially in members enrolled; and feel that through the Book of Mormon lessons, we are gaining more members. Among our younger sisters, we have some very splendid class leaders, who add enthusiasm to the work. The increase in our attendance has had a tendency also to increase our Magazine subscriptions. We are very happy to note this, for we realize that the Magazine is one of the greatest assets that we have. Some of the Societies have been made happy by having subscriptions sent in from women who are interested in the work but are not members of the Church. Everywhere that I have gone throughout the mission I have found splendid women who have been active in the Relief Society who do not yet claim membership in the Church. We have the feeling
244 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
that the Relief Society is rendering excellent missionary service."
New Zealand Mission
SISTER Jennie E. Magleby president of our far-away New Zealand Mission writes:
"We have a number of new organizations in the mission. The new officers within the different organizations have a renewed spirit of serving in their calling. With your faith and prayers and ours added to the call for Relief Society progress, the Lord will grant us the blessings of our labors. The future appears to be most promising.
"Our Relief Society members have been enjoying the activities of district conferences. Half of the Sunday evening programs have been devoted to the Relief Society. We have put on the pageant, 'Make Your Home a Heaven.' Songs and home talks were concurrent with the pageant. The opportunity given to the Relief Society has added zest and happiness in being able to do their part in expounding the teachings. The programs have been greatly appreciated, and have been of much benefit to those taking part as well as to the audience.
"Our work meetings are directed towards the functions for Hui Tau, our annual conference. At small cost, we have made many beautiful floor mats, quilts, comforters, and other things. The art-color designs and workmanship are worthy of great praise. They are sold at the conventions and thus re-enforce our funds.
THE theme for the coming conference is: 'The organization of the Relief Society and its objectives.' On January 5, 1930, a model conference will be held at Auckland. We have the following
NOTES FROM THE FIELD 245
program to be carried out on Sunday evening: 'We thank Thee, O God, for a Prophet.' Talk by a Relief Society member, 'The Prophet Joseph Smith.' Duet, 'Sing a Wondrous Story.' Talk by a Relief Society member, 'History of the Relief Society and Its Purpose.' Song, 'Sweet is the work.' 'Relief Society Loyalty,' by one of the members. The program concludes with the song, 'Beautiful Words of Love.' Then the Mutual organization finishes the evening with its numbers.
"These Sunday evening conferences provide an opportunity for the Relief Society workers to express themselves. One of the spiritual talks was delivered by a sister who had never before appeared before an audience. She could hardly keep from weeping after she finished. She was so happy to have had the opportunity of bearing her testimony and giving her thoughts as to 'The Duties of Parents in Rearing Children.'
"I love the labor, and shall always cherish the pleasant hours spent in the Relief Society work in New Zealand."
Northern States Mission
THIS picture represents the Milwaukee branch Relief Society of the Northern States mission. Every sister in this group is a subscriber to the Relief Society Magazine, and president Pond says each of them is a real Latter-day Saint. Sister Allie Y. Pond reports that the Relief Society organization completed at Galesburg, Illinois, is a small branch, yet every member takes the Relief Society Magazine. Like all others, this mission has its difficulties, but the workers have the spirit of enthusiasm; and not
MILWAUKEE BRANCH RELIEF SOCIETY
only in the branches that have been mentioned, but in every part of the mission field we have received the same encouraging report. The sisters are keenly alive to their work, and are interesting many investigators.
German-Austrian Mission
WE are indebted to Brother Edward P. Kimball, president of the German-Austrian Mission, for the following photographs, and the account of the activities of
246 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
No. 1
No. 2
the Relief Society in this far away land. Reported.
Brother Kimball writes: "On the evening of November 20, 1929, the Forst branch Relief Society of the Spreewald District of this mission held a very successful bazaar. Because of its supremacy among all bazaars held in this field, we feel that you may be interested in a short report of it.
"The bazaar was held in the large reception hall of the Hotel Kaiserhof. Despite the large number of unemployed in the realms of the city, there was a most commendable attendance. As proof of the integrity of the Relief Society sisters and their organization and branch presidency, it was reported that all rent, light, heat, and similar costs were cared for before the evening opened, through voluntary contributions gathered from various willing business concerns. Even city officials were made to feel the value of such a worthy endeavor, and rendered assistance in varied ways.
"The branch president reports further that the bazaar in two hours, had taken in for their organization, over 900 Marks (nearly $220.00). The final receipts, considering articles disposed of and those yet on hand, reached near 1,200 marks (nearly $300.00).
"Not only was the evening a success in a financial way, but from a spiritual standpoint it was very remarkable. The program numbers given, the gospel contacts made with friends, etc., were of a type that make for progress in any mission.
"The postcards enclosed are as follows: No. 1 gives a picture of
No. 3
No. 4
NOTES FROM THE FIELD 247
all who assisted with the bazaar; No. 2 is the middle booth for white goods and fancy work; No. 3 the booth for sandwiches, meats, and salads. At this bazaar 350 sandwiches were sold, the materials for which were mostly contributed free of charge by the business houses of the city; No. 4 indicates the second life picture, 'The Church-way.' In the spinning room the song 'The Evil Tongues' was sung. At the close, the picture was presented.
PROUD of the results achieved we trust that our report to you will give you an idea of the fine work our local people of this land are accomplishing. This branch is entirely in the hands of local Priesthood. Missionaries have not had charge of it for some time."
This certainly is an eloquent expression of the zeal and the interest of the saints in this fine branch.
Eastern States Mission
SISTER Pearl Agren, Counselor and Secretary of the Eastern States Mission, writes:
"On July 5, 1929, Sister Alice D. Moyle was appointed to succeed Sister Olita Melville as president of the Eastern States Mission Relief Societies. During November, President Louise Y. Robison visited several of our Societies. Her sweet spirit and words of encouragement and advice were an inspiration—an incentive to work more diligently. It was a privilege to hear her.
In January, 1929, West Virginia was taken from the Eastern States Mission into the East Central States Mission. At that time this mission lost six Relief Societies, viz., White Sulphur Springs, Huntington, New Martinsville, Verdunville, and Ketterman. Before this change took place there were 33 Relief Societies in the Eastern States Mission.
248 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
Since the beginning of the year 1929, the Auburn and Wilson Relief Societies have discontinued, and the Bronx and Long Island divisions of the New York Relief Society have come together again, thus making a further decrease of four Societies in the mission. At present there are 23 Societies with a total membership of 392 women, most of whom are faithful, sincere workers desirous of serving God and their fellowmen. It is a real pleasure to work with them.
IN all Societies of this mission the members of the Relief Society are few and widely scattered; nevertheless, they are doing fine work. The Palmyra Relief Society leads all the others in charity, Buffalo, Palmyra, and New York Societies are to be complimented on their fine visiting teachers' work. Because of the fact that the members are widely scattered and that many of them are employed in factories, shops, etc., during the day, it is almost impossible to carry on visiting teachers' work in many of the Societies. When carried on, the visits have resulted in better Relief Society work.
"We appreciate the willing cooperation and help the missionaries have given. They have incited interest and enthusiasm among the members.
"The officers aim to keep in close contact with all the Societies through personal visits and letters, and the Societies in general are in a state of progress and peace."
Faith of the Mothers By Linda S. Fletcher
Sadness, like a hovering shadow, Darkened all the Land of Melek, Wherein dwelt all righteous people, Designated "Those of Ammon"; For their brethren, known as Nephites, Sore beset by hordes of Laman, Struggled vainly, all around them, To drive out the cursed invader.
'Twas unrighteousness had weakened Nephi's children; and disunion Made them prey to their dark brethren.
Ammonite, was mighty Amlek,— Agony, the inner conflict, Which he knew. One voice now counseled: "Help the Nephites—aid the brethren, Who, through all these years, have cherished Thee and thine, since forth thou camest From the southern Land of Nephi,— From among the savage people,— Cleansed thy heart by Ammon's message— Called to Christ by joyous tidings, Which Mosiah's Sons did bring thee."
While Another spake within him: "Break not now thy testimony,— That great covenant thou madest With thy God, when thou didst bury All thy weapons for the shedding Of man's blood, thus bearing witness That thy sword, cleansed by repentance And the blood of God's Anointed, Should no more be used for slaying! Amlek, keep this vow, so holy, Lest thy soul forever perish!"
As the latter, counseled Helaman, The High Priest, 'mong Nephi's people.
Then, on Amlek's tortured musings Broke the voice so sweet, so gentle, Of his wife, the wise Deborah: "Grieve not, O my lord, my husband! God hath put it in our power To show gratitude for kindness Manifest to Ammon's people By the Nephites, our loved guardians, And yet keep our vows, so sacred!
Look! Lift up thine head from grieving And behold what we, the Mothers, Have devised, to aid in freeing Zarahemla's Land from Laman!"
Amlek, in a daze of wonder, Suffered that Deborah lead him To the door-step. Marching by them, To the sound of trump and cymbal, Strode two-thousand—yea, the flower Of young Ammonitish manhood— Boys—mere striplings—strong and graceful As young gods, in all the beauty That the living of God's precepts E'er bestows upon His children!
"See, our Sons!" proclaimed Deborah, "They the oath have never taken, Since too young to know its meaning, When we made our vows with Heaven.
250 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
Forth they go to fight our battles, Helaman, the Priest, their Leader; And the Holy One, who gave them,— Taught their mothers how to rear them, Goes with them to e'er protect them, Back to us to bring them safely, Till their measure of creation Is completed and perfected."
Forth they marched, the "Sons" two-thousand— (This, with love, their Leader called them)— Forth unto Judea, fared they, Aiding Antipus, who struggled 'Gainst the Lamanites, victorious In that part of Zarahemla, Where they'd taken Antiparah, Zeezrom, Manti and Cumeni.
And the God the "Sons" had trusted, Who, their mothers taught, would save them, If they doubted not, was with them! Fought they in the thick of battle, For the freedom of their country, Side by side with Nephite brethren, Till the Lamanites were driven From their lands—from all their cities!
And when Helaman did gather All his "Sons" at close of conflict, Not one young life had departed! For no soul of them had doubted God's great power to preserve them. Simply each proclaimed with fervor: "Thus declared our Mothers to us, And we doubt not that they knew it!"
O God, grant that we, as mothers May have faith as those of Ammon!
To her we give special honor this month. For the protection of Mother, and her family, life insurance was instigated and has done glorious work.
THE BIG HOME COMPANY
offers the best there is in life insurance
Beneficial Life Insurance Company
HEBER J. GRANT, Pres. E. T. RALPHS, Gen. Mgr.
Faith and Faithfulness Triumphant A TRUE STORY
By Lula Greene Richards
THERE were no clouds visible in the sky nor anything in all the world of even a grayish appearance so far as could be seen by Albert Clements. He stood or moved about as if standing or walking in the air, so light and buoyant was the beating of his strong, healthy young heart. No wonder the world seemed beautiful to him that peerless autumn morning. It was his birthday, and nineteen years before, on the 19th of November, 1801, his birth had occurred at Fort Ann, Washington County, State of New York. That place, with his parents, had always been his home. There it was that he was now engaged in chopping down trees on his father's farm, which were to be used for timber in building a house and making a home for himself and Ada Winchell, his sweetheart.
Ada was one month and five days his junior, having been born December 24, 1801, at Hebsen, in the same county and State as himself. Good fortune had brought about an agreeable acquaintance between these two young persons, which almost immediately took on the form of a genuine friendship, and soon ripened into pure, first love. Not until that faultless morning had Albert made his declaration and asked Ada to become his wife. The girl, who was chaste and honest in thought and being, without hesitation had met his proposal half way and agreed that their marriage should take place very soon. By Ada's "very soon" she had not thought to indicate an earlier period than the next spring or summer. But within a few weeks Albert's earnest persuasions won out in placing January 28, 1821, as the date for their wedding.
The day came and the marriage was solemnized. "Are you happy, dearest?" Albert asked of his rosy, smiling bride, when for a moment they were by themselves. Ada answered sweetly—"Happy Albert! I have never believed in what is said of wedding days being the happiest days of all until now." "And my greatest wish," Albert continued, "is that I may always be able to keep you happy, and to make each day and year better and happier than the last." "And my wish is," said Ada, "that I may ever prove the true helpmate you are taking me for." No thought came to those young, joyous souls of the sorrows and heartaches awaiting them in the coming years.
ONE year later their first child was born, and a few weeks after Ada confided to its tiny, unconscious ear the fact that she had not known how much happiness this life can bring to mortals until it had come to nestle in her arms. She and Albert were blest with nine such priceless gifts in all, but not all of them came into such peaceful, pleasant surroundings.
Albert and Ada remained in Fort Ann until 1832, then a change came to them. Albert, returning from a business trip which had taken him some distance from home, brought his wife a book which he believed would interest her as it did him. He told her he had met a minister of the Gospel who had taught the same as Jesus had done when He was on the earth, and told of a young Prophet named Joseph Smith. The minister's name was Sidney Rigdon and the book Albert had purchased of him was the Book of Mormon.
Albert and Ada together studied and embraced the Gospel, were baptized, and with their five children moved to Florence, Ohio, to be near the Saints. From that time on they followed with their chosen people and shared their prosperity and their disappointments, their sufferings and their rejoicings. Other children were born to them in different localities, and some of their precious flock they buried by the way as they were being driven from place to place. Perhaps the most severely trying of these experiences came when their son Paul, a young man, was brutally killed during the persecutions of the Saints in Missouri. But there was no thought of ever turning back with either Albert Clements or his wife. They were united in all that came to them and the great love they held for each other strengthened them for each emergency and every sacrifice.
AFTER the expulsion of the Saints from Missouri, and when with the others the Clements settled for a time in Nauvoo, a son was born to them on November 15, 1842. They named him Albert Nephi for his father and their favorite hero in the Book of Mormon. The parents had each now reached the age of forty-one, and this son was, in a way destined to become the most important, or prominent member of the family. At the time of the martyrdom of Joseph and Hyrum Smith—the Prophet and Patriarch—Albert, like
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE 252
many of the brethren, was away from Nauvoo engaged in labors for the strengthening of the Church and the support of the families. When news reached him of the terrible tragedy at Carthage, which by the death of Joseph took away the earthly head of the Church, as soon as possible he cancelled all engagements, dropped the work he was occupied with and started for Nauvoo, there to face whatever hardships might be in store for him in connection with his beloved people and family.
At a small town one evening while on his journey he met a relative of his mother with whom he had been associated in past years. This gentleman kindly invited Albert to his home to remain over night and the invitation was accepted. He was traveling with a span of good horses, one of which he found in the morning very sick and unable to proceed on the homeward journey. Upon entering a nearby store for medicine with which to treat the disabled animal, Albert was highly delighted at meeting Elder Sidney Rigdon, who was on his way from Pittsburgh to Nauvoo.
SIDNEY and Albert were both exceedingly gratified at meeting each other, and they sought and had a few moments' privacy in which they discussed the great calamity that had befallen their people in the awful death of their beloved Prophet leader. Sidney comforted his quiescent listener by acquainting him with the fact that he himself was hastening to the Saints to take the position awaiting him as their guardian and director in place of the slain Prophet whose loss they mourned. A great burden was thereby lifted from Albert's grief-stricken heart, Although on account of the sick horse, he could not travel on that day, it did not matter so much. President Rigdon would soon be with the crushed and hopeless Saints, would arouse their stunned energies and revive their faith and confidence in the goodness and wisdom of God. And his own family, Albert felt sure, would be all right. His dear, noble Ada would be staunch and brave as she had always been and would keep their children safe and contented. He would be with them again before long to help cheer and comfort them, and all would be well with them and with the Church.
By the exercise of great care and skillful nursing the sick horse was rendered able to travel within a few days. But Albert realized that very gentle treatment and no haste with the horse must still be cautiously observed in order that he might proceed on his way with some degree of safety. Other hindrances were also met with. The mending of a broken wagon wheel caused a delay of several hours. Then came the humane necessity for helping some over-loaded wagons with poor, rundown teams across quite a long stretch of heavy, almost impassable roads. Thus one thing after another transpired to lengthen out the time of Albert's journey until the 15th day of August, 1844, had arrived when he reached Nauvoo.
So excited and over-joyed were his wife and children to have him at home with them again after so long a separation—it seemed to them like years instead of months with all the distressing things which had happened during his absence,—that nothing was talked of or perhaps even thought about but their own family affairs for an hour or more following his reaching home. By that time all the children had turned their attention to other things which
253 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
interested them, except baby Albert Nephi, who refused to leave his father's arms for any other position.
THEN the husband and wife were alone, save for their baby nearly two years old, they placed their arms around each other and looked into each other's eyes with love and confidence as true and tender, if not so young and impulsive, as that which stirred in their hearts the day on which they were married more than twenty years ago. The baby held between them watched them kiss each other and he slobbered both their faces with his own sweet, baby kisses, patted their cheeks, and played with and mussed their hair, entirely unconscious of the all important sequence contained in their low voiced, earnest conversation.
Dear little Albert N.! Truly he sensed nothing of the weightiness of the following words as they passed between his idolized father and mother.
"Albert, dear!" said the wife, "I should have been the happiest woman in the world, I think, one week ago this morning if you had been with me in the meeting that was held in the Grove at that time."
"Why, dearest? Was the meeting different to or better than others we have attended together?" Albert asked.
"Don't you know about it—haven't you heard?" exclaimed Ada almost incredulously.
"I have heard nothing and know nothing of it—tell me!" Albert answered.
His wife responded—"Well, I have been thinking all along that surely you would be told all about it, and of course you would be feeling relieved and happy over it, the same as myself and most of our people. But if you have not heard then certainly I shall gladly tell you, for all must know about the most marvelous and
254 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
glorious meeting that the Saints here have ever known anything concerning."
ALBERT was beginning to be enthusiastic and anxious to hear the whole story. Taking the baby's hand from covering his mouth, he asked eagerly—"Was President Rigdon there in his place, and did he take up the reins of government and start the good work speeding on with new force and vigor?"
"Why do you ask a thing like that, Albert?" the woman questioned with a look and in a tone that would indicate she almost felt it sacrilege for her husband to have given utterance to such thoughts. "Yes," she continued, "Sidney Rigdon was at that meeting! But he was no better prepared to take the leadership among our people than this baby of ours is. I have heard him speak in meeting when the Spirit of God was with him and when he propounded principles of truth and righteousness in a way that would be instructive and convincing to honest hearts. But he has changed—he has lost the faith and power he possessed when he stood next to the Prophet and was humble and fearless as the Saints must be to live near the Lord. He was the first speaker in the meeting, and he said he had come to offer himself as a guardian and a leader for the Church! That he was the man appointed by the Lord to be spokesman for Joseph. But he was entirely void of the spirit he formerly manifested. He could scarcely talk at all some of the time. There was nothing of the grand personality of the Prophet to draw the Saints toward Sidney Rigdon, either in his voice or words or looks. He talked for one hour and a half and we became very tired sitting on those hard wooden planks, but in all his discourse there was nothing to lift the cloud of sorrow from our hearts or to arouse our faith and hope to new life."
Ada paused and Albert spoke with undisguised misgivings and said: "You certainly surprise me, Ada! And was that the thrillingly delightful meeting you wish I might have attended?"
"WAIT," Ada answered! "that was only the forepart of the memorable meeting, and that part was exceedingly tedious and unsatisfactory. But as soon as Sidney Rigdon had finished and sat down, Brigham Young arose and—oh, Albert! It was Joseph appeared, with his voice and words as he spoke, which I do so wish you might have seen and heard."
There was silence for a moment. Baby was beginning to nod sleepily. Albert softly laid the little head over on his breast and then said: "Well, Ada, what of it all? Can't you tell me? Was anything decided concerning the future movements of the Church. Who will take the lead—was that fixed?"
"It certainly was, Albert," Ada replied. "That question settled itself, or the Lord settled it. I will tell you how. Sidney talked for a long time, as I said, and offered himself as a guardian for the people. But his speech was delivered in a doubtful, hesitating, even cowardly way, which failed to impress the Saints with any confidence in him or desire to accept his offered guardianship. I believe many must have remembered as I did how Sidney, after being brutally dragged out of bed by drunken mobs, and with the Prophet who was treated the worst of the two—tarred and feathered— said if Joseph Smith's God was going to let him be put through such a course as that, Joseph would have to take it without him for he could FAITH AND FAITHFULNESS TRIUMPHANT not stand such usage. Many of us heard him say that, and also knew that he proved treacherous to the Prophet and the Church because of cowardice, instead of standing like a hero and sharing the Prophet's sufferings even unto death if it had been required. There was nothing about Sidney Rigdon to inspire even common sympathy or respect." Albert arose and carefully placed little Albert N. Asleep on the bed. Then turning to his wife he said, "Ada, dearest, I fear you are greatly prejudiced against President Rigdon. I feel that he has been misjudged and unfairly dealt by."" Ada felt a strange suffocating pain in her chest as she listened to those words from her beloved husband. So many were: weakening—undecided—so much was being said among the false pretenders around them. Leading Albert over to the window she placed her arm affectionately around his waist and his quickly encircled her shoulders. As they looked into each other's faces, she sadly discovered that his features were drawn and troubled, and he saw with great hurt in his heart that she was very pale. Fad me finish telling you of the meeting," Ada said. "The last was the good part of it. When Brigham arose and commenced speaking his face and form immediately assumed the exact appearance of the Prophet Joseph Smith. And he spoke as distinctly in the voice of the Prophet as you ever heard Joseph speak himself. He told the Saints that the keys and power of the leadership of the Church had been sealed upon the quorum of the Twelve Apostles with Brigham Young as their President. This had been done by the Prophet himself by commandment from the Lord. And much more he said, although 255 he took but a short time to say it. The Saints were all converted to the fact that Brigham Young was the right man, with the Twelve, to lead the Church now, and all the congregation voted for that—there was not one hand raised in opposition." Albert was about to speak when one of the girls came to the bedroom door and told her parents that dinner was ready and asked them to come and eat. The family gathered around the table, but there seemed to be something strangely cold and lacking harmony which they could not understand, for there should have been rejoicing in a goodly degree over the safe return home of the husband and father. JUST as the meal was finished a messenger came to the door and beckoned Albert outside. The summons was readily obeyed and for a few moments Albert remained talking with the young man. When he returned his wife asked what was wanted of him. Albert replied, "There is a meeting of some of the brethren this evening, which they would like me to attend. "Is it concerning the finishing of the Temple?" Ada asked with a show of brightening, and she continued, "I have been so in hopes you might be called to that work." "No," answered Albert. "I do not know what the business to be considered is, but the meeting is called by President Rigdon and William Marks." "Surely, Albert, you will not attend it!" his wife exclaimed almost with alarm. "Certainly I shall, Ada!" returned the husband with decision. From that time on differing opinions in relation to their religious views rendered Albert and Ada Clements very unhappy. The most severe trial of their faith came to 256 them from the fact that Albert saw Sidney Rigdon as his leader, while Ada had actually seen the mantle of Joseph Smith fall upon Brigham Young, and knew positively that Brigham was chosen of God to direct the affairs of His Church and people. She knew this great truth by even a stronger evidence than the seeing with her eyes and the hearing with her ears. She knew it by "The testimony of the Lord (which ) is sure, making wise the simple." But with all the power she was able to exert in her husband's interest she could not make him see it, he was so blinded by the influence of crafty men. And although he tried with all the fervor of his soul to induce his wife to see the subject as he viewed it, she had been shown the true light, had accepted it, and was determined to follow whereever it should lead. The Clements were scriptural students and they read and talked over the Savior's sayings found in St. Matthew, chapter 10, verse 37— "He that loveth father or mother more than me is not worthy of me: and he that loveth son or daughter more than me is not worthy of me." And Ada remarked that although husband or wife were not mentioned it might be supposed justifiable to include them also in the argument. Then Albert asked, "And will you give me up, Ada, and follow Brigham Young into the wilderness you know not where or what fate may await you, while I shall remain in peace, and have no more of the persecutions and disturbances to which we have been so long subjected?" ADA replied with heroic determination, "I shall continue with the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints and share its fate, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE even unto death should that be necessary. But I shall never cease to love you, Albert, whether you follow Sidney Rigdon or any other man. And I shall pray for you always that you may be brought to see the truth, even as was Saul of Tarsus! For you are blinded as he was by delusive spirits and the craftiness of unreliable men." Thus they came to the parting of the ways. Ada with her children, who decided to cling to their mother, left Nauvoo among the earliest of the Saints who were driven from their homes there, and moved to Winter Quarters. To his credit Albert was generous in providing as comfortably as he could for the travels of his wife and children, although they were leaving him in sorrow and loneliness. A number of years passed before the way opened for Ada and her children to journey on to the Rocky Mountains. Albert Nephi, the son born in Nauvoo, was a boy nearly ten years and drove his mother's ox team across the plains when the family came in Captain Warren Snow's company, arriving in Great Salt Lake Valley, October 9, 1852. During all the poverty and struggles of the early Mormon Pioneers through which Ada had passed, she never lost faith in the innate goodness and integrity of her husband's heart. Nor did she neglect to mention him in prayer, asking that his heart might be touched with the testimony of the divine mission of Joseph Smith as a true prophet of God, whose life, like that of the Savior, had been sacrificed for the Truth's sake. If only this could happen she knew he would turn from the folly of being misguided by apostate leaders, and through repentance be forgiven of his sins. FAITH AND FAITHFULNESS TRIUMPHANT One day quite a shock came to Ada in the following manner. An Elder who had been commissioned to look after some matters in the affairs of the Church had just returned from a trip East. He called on Ada and told her he had run across her husband in Iowa. Albert, he said, appeared to be in good health and was prospering in a worldly way. 'The surprise came then, which for a short time somewhat bewildered Ada. The Elder informed her that Albert—her husband—had employed and paid him to accompany him to some lawyers who had made out a bill of divorcement, which needed only Ada's signature to make it a legal document dissolving the bond between them which had united them as husband and wife. The plea which Albert had used in the suit was desertion. All there was for Ada to do to make the decree complete was to sign her name to it in the presence of witnesses. Only a brief time she wavered while she considered the question. It would be as well, she decided. The marriage had been only for this life, any way. It had nothing to do with the eternity beyond. So the affair was settled and Ada Clements was a divorced wife. The Elder sent the document to Albert. In 1863 when a young man of twenty-one years, Albert N. Drove an ox team back across the plains as a Church teamster to assist in bringing a company of Saints to Zion, Utah. He found time to visit his father, who was greatly surprised and over-joyed to behold again his youngest son. How delighted that father would have been could he have prevailed on that son to remain with him and share and inherit his worldly possessions. He had been prospered in acquiring means and was well off as far as worldly riches go. He had 257 also married a good and pleasant woman who kept a neat and comfortable home for them, but no child was ever born of their union. The home was in Iowa and the father had joined a branch of what was then known as the Josephite Church. Albert N. Been disposed to remain there with his kindhearted, affectionate father, what a life of ease and pleasure he might have found. Great opportunities might have been his for acquiring knowledge from schools and by interesting travel, instead of passing his days and years in laboring for a living and attending to duties required of him as a member of the Church. But all those alluring prospects held no temptation for the honest-hearted Utah boy. He was glad to see his father and spend a short time with him, and to bear a humble, sincere affirmation to him and his wife that he knew by the testimony with which the Lord had blest him that Joseph Smith was a true Prophet of the Lord, and that Brigham Young was indeed the Prophet's lawful, heaven-appointed successor. Then he wanted to hasten back home to Zion and his loved ones there as soon as he reasonably could, which he did. When Albert N. Reached home and his mother again she was glad to learn that his father had married a good woman. "It is better for him," she commented. "The man is not without the woman, neither the woman without the man in the Lord." The next year, 1864, the Clements moved from Utah into Idaho, and settled at Stockton, a branch of Oxford.. In 1865, having discovered "the finest girl in the world" (for him) Albert N. Married Elizabeth Ann 258 Boyce. His mother, being persuaded that she might do more good in the world as a comfort to others and by being helped herself over some hard places in life by marrying a man named James Steers, consented to the change this brought to her. After a few years Mr. Steers died. Other years passed, and again, for the sake of helping and of being helped Ada was married to a Mr. Wilbur. He also died after a time. No children were born of either of these marriages, nor had Ada consented with either for a Church marriage in the Endowment House, which was then being used temporarily while the Temples were building. Albert N. Went East a' second time to assist in bringing emigrants to the Valleys in 1868. This time he drove a horse team. Again he visited his father, and with him attended one of his Church meetings. On returning home the father asked his son how he enjoyed the services. The son promptly replied, "It was as sounding brass and a tinkling cymbal." He then bore a strong testimony of the truth of the Gospel to his father! He said, "The day will come when you shall see the light! And when that time does come, father, and with your religion goes everything else and you haven't anything, remember you can have a home with me. Just send me word. Here is a purse I wish to give you as a token, and I pray it may ever be full." The years that followed nothing was heard from the father. Albert was in a new part of the country, Idaho, working steadily, and bravely making a livelihood for his young and increasing family. During this period the father's wife died. His means all slipped away from him. The mother twice widRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE owed was now alone, living some distance from her son, Albert N. The mail came into their town twice a week from Corinth. One Friday morning the mail brought Albert N. A letter from his father, telling him his prophecy had been fulfilled—that he was left desolate, and had not sufficient means to come to him; but that he had seen his mistake and wished to come to his people. In the afternoon the mail went out and with it a letter from Albert N., telling his father that on the following Monday he would go out on the mail and send him money for his fare. At that time he only had fifty cents in the house, but the money must come— he knew it would. How he prayed and schemed! Sunday morning came and as yet nothing had been brought to the mind of Albert N. To show him how | he was to obtain the money which he must have. He sat in his front room; the south door was open, letting in a flood of bright sunshine. His heart was lifted in prayer. A stranger horseman rode up to the gate. Without waiting for him to dismount Albert N. Hastened to him and passed the time of day. The following conversation then ensued: Stranger: "Do you know of anvone with a yoke of oxen for sale?" Albert N.: "Oh, yes! I have two of them." Stranger: 'Where are they?" Albert: "In the pasture. Shall I drive them here, or will you go there?" Stranger: with you." All the while from Albert N.'s soul, the prayer was being offered up: "O Father in Heaven, put it into his heart to buy them! For the promise to my father I must keep." When the oxen were rounded up, two fine yoke, the stranger selected "I will jog on down FAITH AND FAITHFULNESS TRIUMPHANT one pair and paid Albert N. $100.00 for them. Next morning Albert N. Was off to Corinth, and borrowing $100.00 more, forwarded the $200.00 to his father. He then made arrangements with Brother David Eccles to meet his father when he should arrive in Corinth, and give him every attention in case he, his son, should not be there himself. Albert Nephi had confided a little scheme to his wife, and she prepared a room for his mother and persuaded her to come and spend a week or two with them—all unconscious of the fact that her "first love," the father of her children was soon coming to them. AT the proper time Albert N. Drove over to Corinth to receive his father and take him home. Brother Eccles met him; his father had just arrived and was resting in the best hotel in town. The charge for his, entertainment Brother Eccles had paid. When the father and son met, there was in that hotel a scene of great rejoicing, although no dry eyes were beholding it. It was a reminder of the memorable meeting of Jacob and Joseph in Egypt, Genesis 46:29. As soon as he was able to speak, the father drew a purse from his pocket and said as he handed it to. Albert N. "Do you remember this, my son? It is yours with all it contains and I am now in your keeping." His fare had been $180.00 and $20.00 remained in the purse. Albert and Ada knew nothing of the meeting planned for them by their son and his wife until it took place in their home. But notwithstanding the long separation and the 259 changes brought to both, there was nothing between them that could not be readily forgiven; a complete and sincere reconciliation immediately followed. Albert was humbly penitent for the mistaken course he had pursued. And his wife and their children, also the Church authorities, were all rejoiced to forgive and to receive him back into the true fold of Christ. Albert Clements and Ada Winchell did their courting all over again. And after awhile, when they were all ready, their faithful, youngest son, Albert Nephi, fixed up his wagon, hitched up his team, and drove with them to the Endowment — House in Salt Lake City. There they received blessings and promises reserved for the pure in heart who are obedient to the laws of God. And Albert Nephi had the unique privilege of witnessing the marriage of his own father and mother—their true marriage, uniting them for time and all eternity. Before leaving the sacred building, Ada referred to their former marriage so long ago and so far away in Fort Ann, New York— how happy they had been then in each other's love. And she said, "But this day is far more blessed, and our happiness more sure and complete. Is it not so, dear Albert?" Her husband responded tenderly and reverently, "Indeed it is true, my dearest Ada! And this glorious triumph over which we gratefully rejoice today, I humbly and fervently acknowledge is very largely due to your undeviating Faith and Prayers and Faithfulness." SPRING TIME By Camille Cole Neuffer Joyous spring is onthe wing: — And we shall all be gay, When bleak old winter sheds her coat: And stealthy slinks away. When. Chilly frost to us ts lost: And spting has come to stay. Balmy spring ts on the wing. And winter's fast retreating. Loudly blows the old March wind Round barren cliffs a beating. When Robin Breast, does build her nest And sings her anthems gay. Oh we shallall be happy, When spring has come to stay. Joyous spring is on the wing: Old winter echoes low. Daisies peep their naughty heads From out beneath the snow. When spackling rills rush from the hills: And dance through woodlands gay, Oh we shall all be happy When spring has come to stay.  Moral Training Through Home Work Radio speech delivered over K. S. L. January 26, 1930, under the auspices of the Utah State Department of Education. By Milton Bennion THAT the conditions of modern life, in cities especially, have brought about radical changes in the home, and more particularly in the duties and responsibilities of children, is widely recognized. Many writers on modern education and some sociologists have lamented the fact that the home no longer furnishes favorable conditions for training children to carry their share of responsibilities in cooperation with other members of the family. In this respect, at least, they hold that the home has ceased to be an educational institution. Many educational administrators have for a generation, more or less, taken this for granted, and have devised various ways of annexing this responsibility to the schools. There is a tendency in human nature to idealize the past, to think only of its glory and to forget its gloom. There is also a widespread tendency to have visions of a future millennium when all the evils and deficiencies of the present will be automatically swept away. Thus the evils of the present become magnified in the light of the Eden of the past and the Paradise of the future. ANY rational consideration of historical and social facts will, however, convince anyone that the past had its evils and limitations, and that the millennium is not likely to come without long and persistent effort on the part of those that are to realize it. The multiplicity of duties in and about the old fashioned rural home doubtless did furnish, under wise parental leadership, excellent opportunities for moral training. It is also true that many parents were deficient in knowledge of child nature and education and so did not make use of these opportunities. It may be too severe even to think of the type of parent who was more interested in the care of his cattle than in the education of his children, and who would, unconsciously no doubt, sacrifice the future possibilities of his children for the betterment of his dairy herd. It was such grim facts as these that made necessary enactment of compulsory school attendance laws and other measures for the protection of children against the ignorance and the economic greed of some parents. These unsavory historical facts are here mentioned because there are quarters of the earth, and even parts of America, where these conditions still exist. The fact that they are more rare now than they were a century ago is to the credit of the present and a basis of hope for the future. S civilization advances and conditions change radically, mankind very naturally outgrows many social defects such, for instance, as that of stunting the physical and mental development of children through excessive toil. New conditions, however, bring new problems. People are frequently carried from one extreme to its opposite, from poverty and excessive toil to great wealth and luxury and with indolence 262 following in their trail, the familiar condition, "Where wealth accumulates and men decay." Yet wealth, properly used, may be a means of high and worthy attainment. Comfortable homes and modern conveniences need not destroy the moral influence of the home. The greater leisure and opportunities for study on the part of parents, together with the facilities of modern education now available to children, can be utilized for the improvement of home life. There is still work enough for all, for each in proportion to his abilities and his opportunities. ONE of the foundational principles of character education is development of personal and social responsibility. This is a quality of character that may be developed in. Some degree in early childhood; it should receive the attention of parents throughout the whole period of development of their children from infancy to maturity. The great need for developing a sense of responsibility is at once manifest to one who has to deal with a person deficient in this quality. One of the chief means of insurance against such deficiency is the wise use of home work as a means of training young people. The work to be done should, of course, be suited to the age and strength of the child and not of such a nature as to be excessively or persistently tedious. Care should be exercised not to antagonize the child or to have him feel that he is assigned work that is too menial for the parents themselves to do, or that he is working for his parents in slavish fashion rather than that he is working with them in the performance of necessary home tasks. Parents and children should be partners in the maintenance of their
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE 262
common home. Parents are, of course, senior partners in the business, they should, however, never play the role of dictators or slave drivers. Two fundamental principles they should always keep uppermost in mind; i.e.
FIRST, they should recognize the fact that the child is a person and that requirements made of him should always be with his own ultimate best good in mind. He should never be regarded as merely a means to the fulfillment of the purposes of another, not even those of the parent. This is not to say that he may not be of service to parents; such service, however, should be of a kind that will, in the long run at least, be mutually helpful. The child labor laws of modern progressive states are based upon this principle. Any kind of labor that stunts the physical, intellectual, or moral development of a child is or ought to be illegal. This, however, is not true of many kinds and quantities of labor that children may perform in and about the home.
SECOND, a parent should never require the child to do anything that he is not willing, if able, to do himself. In line with this principle it is advantageous for the parent, whenever feasible, to work with the child. There is a fourfold advantage in this. It tends to dignify the work in the mind of the child; it creates a bond of sympathy between parent and child as they are engaged in a common task; it furnishes a most favorable opportunity for social intercourse, companionship, through which the parent may influence the attitudes and ideals of the child; it furnishes opportunity to develop confidential relations that may lead the child and later the youth, to
MORAL TRAINING 263
consult freely with the parent in regard to his difficult problems—problems most vital in their relation to his future development and happiness.
THE attitude of the child toward home work is influenced to a much greater extent by the actions and attitudes of the parent than by anything the parent may say. A cheerful, willing, joyous attitude on the part of the parent will tend to develop the same characteristics in the child. These qualities of character are contagious. It is to this kind of contagion that young people should be constantly exposed. On the other hand, if the parent regards the work as mere drudgery the child is almost sure to groan under the burden. Part of the difficulty comes about from one person's trying to do too much, thus lowering the vigor of both body and mind. Anything that is to be enjoyed must be done with zest. This zest is, however, influenced not only by fatigue, but also by interest, and this in turn by the thought that is given it. As to attitude, why not cultivate the habit of thinking of household tasks in the light of their importance, their contribution toward maintaining comfort, health or artistic standards.
A thoughtful person may readily appreciate the daily systematic care necessary to make and to keep a room attractive, the necessity of dishwashing, or the practical value of the dozen or more other routine tasks that have to be done every day or two or three times a day. Consider what home conditions are like when those tasks are not done, and they will at once appear as worth doing. Failure to perform some simple little task may cause distress out of all proportion to the time and care needed to do it.
263
All work should be carefully planned and, where possible, thoughtfully executed. Careful planning ahead saves time and effort and, as a rule, also improves the quality of the work.
WHAT are some of the labors in which both parents and children may participate? Let us begin in the kitchen, where there is that ever recurring task of cleaning and drying dishes, only too commonly thought of as drudgery. Where there are a number of persons in the household this job may be lightened and tendency toward monotony relieved by making it a cooperative one. For one person to have to wash, dry, and put away dishes three times a day, or even twice a day, is satisfactory only when there is no one available to help and to contribute good cheer to the occasion. The more dishes there are to care for, the more this fact is apparent. Children may well begin early to participate in this kitchen activity. A child that is old enough to begin first grade in the public school may well also begin first grade in the kitchen—drying and putting away knives, forks, and spoons, for instance, while other phases of the job are attended to by other members of the family.
Wiping dust from furniture and fixtures in the house is another simple task that the child may share with adults. The same may be said of keeping books, magazines, and papers in their proper places. In this it is partly a matter of training the child to put back in place at the proper time, things that he uses. He seems naturally prone to throw them down anywhere, assuming that the job of putting them in their proper places belongs of natural right to Mother, or to the maid, if there chances to be one.
264 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
Closely allied to this is the problem of cultivating thoughtfulness with regard to household affairs and such habits of orderliness and cleanliness as will reduce to the minimum the so-called drudgery of housekeeping. This in itself has great moral value.
It is not the purpose here to discuss the details of housekeeping, but merely to offer a few samples of what may very well be done by way of cooperative work and to direct attention to the moral values that may be derived from such cooperation between parent and child. This point is well illustrated by the story of the college girl who tells with enthusiasm of the good times she had with her mother while sharing with her the household tasks. Her mother used great ingenuity in making the work pleasant and a means of intimate companionship; this, to such an extent that both mother and daughter rather resented the intrusion of a third helper.
WITHOUT the house there is normally the problem of caring for lawn, flowers, and in some instances, vegetable garden and domestic animals. In these appendages of the home all members of the family should be interested; responsibility for their care, however generally falls to father and son; mother and daughters are likely, however, to be at least equally aggressive in promoting the artistic features of the home environment. In any case common interest is fostered by common participation in the labor and other responsibilities involved.
Any one may easily think of many other specific jobs in and about the home in which children and parents may share. While the values to be derived are here discussed with special reference to children and youths, it is nevertheless a fact that parents also may share in many of these moral values.
WHAT are some of these moral values in addition to that of developing individual and social responsibility? We suggest for consideration the following:
First, development of thrift habits. This means not only industry, but also the habit of wise spending and judicious saving. These qualities taken together are essential to economic independence. This remark carries the implication that money is somehow involved in connection with home work. It is, without doubt, one important aspect of the question, but, of course, not the only one. No child should get the notion that he should be paid for every home duty performed. He should rather grow up with the thought that the family is an economic unit, and that each member of the family should give of his time, energy, and means in proportion to his abilities, and that each should receive in proportion to his needs.
SOME of these needs are financial, and of these the child has a share, however small. He should learn early to evaluate money, to exercise self-restraint against spending it hastily and foolishly, and to learn as he grows older how to provide for his own needs. In some families each child has a weekly or a monthly allowance for his personal needs, or, may be for spending on his own pleasures. This plan is more favorable to development of responsibility, self-respect, and independence than is the plan of forcing a child to beg for every cent he gets. There are mothers who will readily understand this.
MORAL TRAINING 265
May it not, however, be better in connection with a regular allowance to assign some regular duties, not necessarily with the idea of fixing exactly the economic value of the duties, but rather with the idea of correlating in the mind of the child privileges with duties. This is a most fundamental principle in ethics, i.e., for every right or privilege there is a corresponding duty. This practice also tends to stimulate industry, responsibility, and practical adjustment to the principle that each should serve in proportion to his ability, while he receives in proportion to his needs. The amount to be paid will be determined in some measure by the circumstances of the family and in still larger measure by the use that is to be made of the money. Is it to be used for such things as candy and shows only, or is it also to pay for music and private music lessons, for clothing, or for other necessities? Consideration of abilities and needs—the utilitarian theory of property—rather than the labor theory alone, should always be uppermost. The labor theory has its value, but it is wholly inadequate to the economic life of the family. In itself it is even an inadequate basis for the economic life of the state. The child will, of course, receive much more than he can give; he should, however, develop to the point where this condition can be reversed. Meantime he should be acquiring habits of using his time, his abilities, and his economic resources in ways that will be most valuable to all concerned. Home work may save him from habits of careless use of time as well as of money, to say nothing of the evils of dissipation that may result from such idleness and carelessness.
265
CHILDREN should be trained to appreciate the value of time. They should be led to realize that their own accomplishments in life will depend primarily upon how they invest their time. To make the most effective investment there is need of a time budget. It is more important than is a financial budget, now so generally recognized as essential in all sound business practice. Yet many people are most wasteful of their time, throwing away hours when they would be horrified at the thought of throwing away dollars. Habits pertaining to the use of time are generally formed early in life. Children may be helped to form right habits by training them to budget their time, including, of course, the time allotted to home work and specifically to each job assigned to them. This may be an antidote against developing the habit of procrastination and mere dawdling over a piece of work.
IDLENESS and irresponsibility among the children of the well-to-do, where these conditions exist, may be a greater menace to them and to the nation than is much of the child labor now forbidden by law. This is no defense of such child labor. Child labor laws are here referred to only to emphasize the opposite evils of idleness and irresponsibility, which cannot easily be cured by legislation; the remedy is, however, within the power of the family, at least until the abilities and the needs of youth call for regular employment outside the home. It then becomes also a community problem. It should be noted in passing that one of the greatest community needs is extension of home employment to well regulated community employment for youths during their vacation periods. The lack of such
266 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
employment may be morally disastrous. Solution of this problem calls for cooperation of all parents with the schools and the business organizations of the community. Here is a great educational opportunity that should not be neglected.
VARIETY in the work to be done in and about the home; and, of course, suitable outside jobs for young people, have great value for pre-vocational education, vocational guidance, and possible future avocations. In the matter of selecting a life's work practical experience is indispensable, more important than mere theory. Both are essential to wise guidance. The home can make substantial contributions on the practical side. Parents may not properly dictate or in any degree attempt to coerce their sons and daughters into preparation for any particular vocation. They can, however, with justice lead their young people to see that they are morally obligated to choose and to qualify for a life's work, both as a means of social service and also as a means of their own economic independence. As a help toward this end they should provide their children with a variety of vocational experiences, and should cooperate with the schools in providing them with information about vocations. This subject may well be a topic of conversation while parent and youth are working together about the home. Concerning these matters an earnest, energetic youth is likely to have much more enthusiasm than practical wisdom. The opinion and counsel of a thoughtful, intelligent, and sympathetic parent may be a very valuable supplement to the inexperience of youth.
It may be suggested that all of this can be done quite apart from home work. That may be, but the
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE 267
habit of doing things together develops a bond of sympathy and understanding that is not usually developed by talking together merely.
ANOTHER phase of this problem concerns training sons and daughters to become successful husbands and wives, fathers and mothers. Some one has recently suggested trial vocations as substitutes for trial marriages on the theory that if people were trained in vocations and had some experience in responsible work, and in this connection, learned the value of money and the necessity of wise and limited spending, there would be little need of trial marriages. This may be true, but of equal or even greater importance is practical experience in carrying on the essential work of the home. This is in part a matter of knowing how, but it is also and more fundamentally a matter of habit and attitude. One who has been trained from childhood to cooperate with other members of the family in carrying on the business of the household is much more likely to continue such cooperation in mature life than is one who has never been thus trained. Many a joyous honeymoon has been marred through one party's throwing all the home burden upon the other. When both parties shirk responsibility, home life becomes practically impossible and the young couple may then choose between a boarding house and the divorce court.
HABIT, as has often been pointed out, is one of the most powerful factors in life. The habits of childhood and youth tend to persist throughout life. This applies to the habit of work and the bearing of responsibilities about the home no less than it applies to other habits. Habits also tend to create attitudes and these together are important
MORAL TRAINING 267
factors in developing ideals, all of which combine to create the moral and social atmosphere of the home. Home work and the attitude of each member of the family toward that work is a very important factor in determining what the home atmosphere shall be.
The good or the evil results of training in the home do not, of course, end in the home, either the one in which the child grows up or in the new home he has founded. The results go out into the life of the whole community and affect the character of the state and the nation. The very life of these institutions is determined in large measure by the families of which they are constituted, and the kind of training each new generation of citizens receives in their home.
IRRESPONSIBLE and shiftless members of families are very naturally irresponsible and shiftless members of the community, persons
267
who are always willing to let some one else carry the load while they share the benefits. Such an attitude not infrequently leads to positive dishonesty. Out of this class ordinarily come the criminals, large and small, of the community. The more able and ambitious the individual the more disastrous may be the lack of proper training. On the contrary, the early establishment of habits of industry, responsibility, with harmonious cooperation in the family, lays the foundation for those qualities of character which make of the naturally capable the great social, political, and religious leaders of the community; while of those of ordinary or even less than ordinary ability it makes the substantial, dependable body of citizens upon whom the orderly life of the state and the nation depend.
Push a button or turn a switch.
Service.
At your home, office or factory.
Plan.
ELECTRIC SERVICE is Service plus!
The word service is so often used and so often misused that we hesitate to use it as descriptive of the service we offer you—because every time you avail yourself of its almost countless uses in the home, farm and factory, it is a dependable servant, always there when you
THE COMBINATION RATE
You have heard of our combination rate for home use of electricity. We would like to have the opportunity of going into it thoroughly and explaining its flexibility and advantages.
Call at our nearest office, or telephone for a representative to call. He will be glad to explain on the premises in just what ways Electric Service can be used by you at the highest efficiency and the lowest cost—and he will tell you also how easy it is to buy electric equipment from us on our convenient sales plan.
UTAH POWER & LIGHT CO.
Efficient Public Service
Questions in Theology
Questions in Theology; as presented to the Theological Department at the recent Conference.
— (Discriminate carefully between what the Book of Mormon says and what you infer from what it says.)
I.
1. What does the Book of Mormon tell us about the pre-earth life—(a) of Christ? (b) of man generally?
2. Is there any mention there about the pre-earth life of Satan?
3. What details are we in possession of respecting the pre-earth life? Which of these do we get from the Book of Mormon?
4. What does the Record say of the purpose of our coming to the earth-life?
II. 5. According to the Book of Mormon what is the relationship between God and man? 6. In what ways does the Record show the Lord's concern for man? 7. Tell the ways through which the Book of Mormon people received light from heaven. 8. What is said about Christ's relationship to man, to America, to the world generally? 9. Does the Record say anything about the Godhead? If so, what? 10. What attribute do you think of in connection with the fact that God was so concerned with the people on this continent? 11. Study Alma, chapter 29, verse 8, and give your interpretation of it. How does that idea conflict with the Jewish idea at the same time?
III. 12. Did the Jaredites have a church? If so, in what ways did it differ from that among the Nephites? 13. Describe in detail the church among the Nephites, keeping close to the facts. 14. Compare the Nephite church—(a) with that in Palestine at the time of the apostles, and (b) with our own in this age. 15. What religious ordinances did the Nephites have? (Distinguish between a principle and an ordinance.) 16. What manner of life did the Nephite church require of its members? (Be specific.) 17. Give in detail the teachings of the Book of Mormon respecting the state between death and the resurrection. 18. What does the Book of Mormon say on the resurrection from the dead? 19. According to Lehi what is the purpose of life? Distinguish between pleasure, happiness, joy.
IV. 20. What do you understand by (a) the spirit of a home? (b) of a book? (c) of a person? Tell the various kinds of spirit each of these may have. 21. What is the spirit of the Book of Mormon? Which of these adjectives apply to it—gay, solemn, serious, pious, religious, atheistic, irreverent? 22. Is there any humor in the Book of Mormon? If not, why not? Do you have any reason for believing that the Nephites had a sense of humor? 23. Is the Book of Mormon too serious in its general tone—(a) for you? (b) for the boys and girls of today?
Questions on Nephite Life
(Discriminate carefully between what the Book of Mormon says and what you infer from what it says.)
I.
1. What kind of houses did the Jaredites live in? The Nephites? The Lamanites?
2. Did they have any domesticated animals? If so, can you tell what they were?
3. To what extent did they carry on trade—first, the Jaredites, and next, the Nephites? What about the Lamanites in this respect?
4. Did the
QUESTIONS IN THEOLOGY 269
Jaredites or the Nephites know anything about ships and navigation? If so, to what extent? 5. What do you know about the money of the Book of Mormon peoples? What metals did they use?
II. 6. How large were the families of the Jaredites and the Nephites? 7. Did either of these people practice plural marriage? Do you know of any non-polygamous families that have had twenty-two children? 8. What was the work assigned to the Nephite women? What influence did they exert, so far as we know? 9. Did the Nephites generally know how to read and write? Give references for your statements. 10. What do we gather about the training of children from the Book of Mormon?
III. 11. What kind of government did the Jaredites have? 12. What is the difference between an "absolute monarchy" and a "limited monarchy?" 13. What kinds of government did the Nephites have at various times during their history?
269
Take each of these and compare—(a) with the contemporary governments across the sea in Europe, and (b) with our own at the time of Joseph Smith. 14. What sort of political government did the Lamanites have? 15. To what extent did the Jaredites and the Nephites generally participate in government? 16. Point out the ways in which the Record says the government was a failure. That is, what defects developed?
IV. 17. What occupations did the Jaredites follow? 18. What occupations did the Nephites follow? 19. What did the Lamanites eat, and how did they obtain their food? 20. What social sins, like prostitution and drunkenness, manifested themselves among the peoples of the Book of Mormon? 21. Did they have any poverty? How did they deal with this social problem? 22. What characteristically human qualities, good and bad, do you find in the Book of Mormon? 23. Are any implements of any kind spoken of in the Record? If so, what?
My Gift Lucy Wright Snow
God gave to me a gift—a spirit child; One nurtured by His side in His own Heaven; He bade me bear my precious gift to earth, There to endow it with a mortal birth; To teach my babe from whence he came, and why He wandered thus from his loved home on high.
So, through the valley of the death I passed Bearing to earth my babe—my God-given guest.
God help me by Thy gift—this child to me To gain a greater knowledge of Thy power; Quicken my senses through my sacrifice, To feel the presence of Thy Comforter, each hour.
Teach me Thy ways, oh Lord, that I may know How best to live and love while here below; Endow me with the power to serve Thy Cause— To teach my heavenly guest celestial laws.
Help me to be, at least, a thankful child. Worthy to come back to Thy home again; Let me return to Thee and bring my babe, To lay it at Thy feet, a monument Of strength, love, virtue, wisdom, grace, Added upon, enriched, perfected here; Let this, Thy gracious gift, my child to me, Return approved, beloved, my gift to Thee.
The Old Juniper Tree By Mrs. George Q. Rich
We followed the trail up the mountain To old Juniper, one May day; As we climbed to lofty summits, The wild flowers strewed the way.
Far down below flowed the river; An eagle soared over head; There were footprints on the mountainside, Where the bounding deer had tread;
We heard the mournful cooing Of a dove as it called its mate; In all that majestic setting There was naught of strife or hate.
From that lofty throne on the mountain We could see far, snow-capped peaks, Could hear the voice of the forest, Where whispering breezes oft speaks,
We saw giant pines and cedars, But old Juniper reigns king of all, Its bark all dry and crispy, Its branches all twisted and gnarled.
Like a silent sentinel watching Each day and throughout the night, In spring, summer, autumn and winter, The old juniper stands in its might.
We felt its aged influence As we stood beside it there, Watching its wind-swept branches Bowing, as if in prayer.
Up in that mountain vastness Living a long, long span, Looking so old and ancient Like the mummies we see of man.
Now the silence of ages is broken And many that long trail will climb, To gaze upon the old Juniper, And view that scene sublime.
NOTE: The "Old Juniper" is the oldest living juniper tree in the world. It is more than 3,000 years old, with a circumference of 26 feet and 8 inches and is 44½ feet high. It grows out of a large cliff of rock. It was discovered in July, 1923, in Logan Canyon by Professor Maurice Linford. Protected by the Government.
270 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
Thom's "Everyday Problems of the Everyday Child" By Lais V. Hales
UNTIL recently parents have not appreciated the fact that the obligations of parenthood mean a great deal more than to see that the child has enough to eat and wear and does not steal, lie, or set fires. Of the many helpful books that have been written in the last three years along child development and parenthood obligation lines, Dr. Douglas A. Thom's "Everyday Problems of the Everyday Child" stands out prominently. Written in 1927, it received the "Children, The Parents' Magazine" medal for the best book of the year for parents. Through his "Habit Clinics" in Boston, Dr. Thom had received a wealth of practical experience with children of all types. He felt that during the formative years a child is likely to acquire some undesirable habits and personality traits such as cruelty, lying, anger, etc. This was to be expected in some phase of every child's development and did not in any way stamp a child as abnormal or cast any reflection upon the parents. So he wrote his book to plead that parents, instead of being ashamed and humiliated at the appearance of undesirable traits in their children, face them, study them, and deal with them understandingly. To him one of the most important tasks of parents is to see that the boy or girl is happy and is learning how to meet problems of everyday life successfully. Loving the child is not enough. Knowledge is required for the job of parenthood. Above all, Dr. Thom stresses the importance of the motives for conduct rather than the conduct itself.
EVERY living thing is affected both by heredity and environment, but the great majority of children with undesirable habits, personality deviations, and delinquent trends are not the product of an irreparable past, over which they have no control. They are largely the result of the environment in which they have been reared; and the dominating feature of this environment is always the parent. Habits are the tools by which we achieve health, happiness, and efficiency. Reward, praise, blame, and punishment must be considered in bringing about desirable habits in the child. Children are born without habits. Existence necessitates the taking on of various modes of action. Whether these modes shall be desirable or undesirable will depend upon the training given the child. But important as is the guiding, directing, and training of the child, it must not overshadow the creating in the home of an atmosphere of affection, kindly consideration, and fair play.
OBEDIENCE in the child should not be looked upon as an end in itself, for it is only a means to an end, and that end is self-control and restraint. Forceful and uncompromising measures on the part of parents to gain obedience lead often to stubbornness. Obedience comes from discipline. The child will learn the value of obedience by experience, and not by any process of moralization. Let the child learn by experience that his way of doing things works out to his disadvantage while obedience leads to pleasure and satisfaction. Make as few demands as possible upon the child and stimulate him to his best efforts by compensation. Approbation should be given without too much restraint. Material incentives should be given. Every command made by a parent should be followed up. A command worth
271
giving is worth carrying out, but avoid overcorrection and autocratic manner. Above all things let parents expect obedience. Do not let the child feel that you are uncertain as to his response, or that you are sure he will disobey. The child particularly wants to live up to what is expected of him.
ANGER is experienced by every individual. We do not want to eradicate it, but rather, through education, training, and experience, to teach the child how to control this emotion. Let the child early in life see that anger does not work out to his advantage. Often anger is only a danger signal, warning parents to look further for a deeper cause. Find out what the child is thinking about. What are his problems, hopes, and disappointments? A reasonable explanation of why a child should do a particular thing will do much to train him along the path of obedience and protect him from irritability and spells of anger.
FEAR is a common emotion—one that may prove to be constructive or destructive in the development of the personality of the child. The stimulation of fear in a child is not only barbarous and cruel, but practically useless. Parents should not create about their children a perpetual atmosphere of fear—of ever present danger—by incessantly warning them of dangers. Caution is necessary to success but too many people are dominated by fear. The fears of childhood are very real to the child and should never be minimized, criticized, or ridiculed. Patience and consideration, with a kindly and confident attitude will do much to quiet the fears of childhood.
JEALOUSY between the ages of one and five is common to most children. If, by accident or otherwise, this emotion is fostered and allowed to dominate the personality, serious difficulty in social adaptation will follow. By its very nature jealousy carries with it a lowering of self-valuation; followed by humiliation, concealment, and shame. Much conduct that is described as queer, eccentric, or peculiar is based on jealousy. It is not an inheritance; it is usually the result of selfishness, which means faulty training. The child who has learned to share his toys, who has learned to appreciate that his mother has other duties in life besides fulfilling his every wish, will probably not be much handicapped by jealousy.
HONESTY is acquired, not inherited. The instinct of acquisition is strong in children and they must be trained to differentiate within the family group that which belongs to them from that which is the property of somebody else. To treat stealing in children, the important thing to do is to determine what purpose the stealing served in the emotional life of the child and then make every effort to help the child meet this need in a legitimate way. Stealing may be the reaction to a jealous inferiority, to revenge, or to a blind effort to find some satisfactory outlet. If parents meet the problem of dishonesty openly and
EVERYDAY PROBLEMS OF THE CHILD 272
frankly and intelligently there is no cause for alarm. If they keep in touch with the daily activities of their children they will detect the habit of stealing and dishonesty before it has gained much headway.
RARELY do we find a child who is wilfully and wantonly destructive. Activity is fundamental with them, and there is always a plan behind it—an end in view. The child has no sense of values so he should have a corner of his own to play in. Curiosity, the desire to find out what makes things go, how they are made, and what can be done with them, is the cause of most of what we call the destructive tendencies in children.
Along with the above traits and habits Dr. Thom discusses many others such as feeding, sleeping, inferiority, truancy, lying, sex, and teacher and pupil relationship. This book is richly illustrated with individual cases bearing upon his subject. Dr. Thom's attitude, however, is the most helpful thing about his book. It is one of complete sympathy with the child and encouragement for the often bewildered and discouraged and humiliated parent. We feel the wisdom of Dr. Thom and his earnest desire to help. The book is written in such a way that it is most readable, helpful, and applicable to the lives of our children. He stresses always the motives for conduct rather than the conduct itself, the importance of parental study of children, and the use of patience, intelligence, and frankness in any matter dealing with children. He pleads for companionship between parents and children, urging that it be established in the early years of the child's life. It is a very friendly book full of the common sense so necessary in proper parenthood.
273
PARENTS—YOUR PROBLEM SOLVED
THE problem of selecting a college with which to entrust the business training of your sons and daughters is of the utmost importance. Those human lives are involved—your own flesh and blood—and the training received will become an inseparable part of their lives. If good it will bring success and honor; if poor it will prove a handicap for life.
The development of character is the chief aim of all education, and you want to be sure that your sons and daughters will be surrounded by good influences. You want them to gain in business integrity as well as in knowledge and technical ability, and no matter how good their home training has been their character will be influenced by the environment in which they receive their business education.
At the L. D. S. Business College the maintenance of a high moral standard is considered of first importance, and when you entrust your sons and daughters to our care you may be sure that they will be surrounded by influences that will make for upright manhood and womanhood, as well as for educational thoroughness.
Doesn't this appeal to you? You cannot estimate in dollars and cents the advantage of having your sons and daughters receive business training amid such elevating and refining influences. You need have no fear in sending them to us alone, for we will take your place in looking after their mental, moral and physical welfare, and you can rest assured that when they leave us they will be fully equipped for the future in every sense of the word.
L. D. S. BUSINESS COLLEGE
Write us for full information
The Homeless Ones By Alfred Osmond
I sing of those whose parents have been parted, Not by the hand of death, which would be kind; But by a broken vow of the false-hearted Who desecrate the temples of the mind.
Methinks their cruelty is less refined Than those who rob the coffers of the poor. They steal the birthrights that should be enshrined In homes that should be builded to endure The storms that make the brave more steadfast and secure.
The homeless ones who in their dire distress Will never feel a mother's fond embrace. The children whom the Lord can hardly bless With compensation for parental grace.
The storms of life that they will have to face Without the blessings of a happy home Stamps wantonness with that debauched disgrace That curses the unfortunate who roam, With no protecting care from heaven's heedless dome.
Torn from their cradles by a legal hand, I hear and heed the homeless children crying. The curse is stalking boldly through the land, While wounded love in chains is sadly sighing.
While hopes of happiness are slowly dying, The wrecker of the home laughs loud with scorn. But Vengeance, like an angry god, is flying, To herald forth the rights of these unborn And comfort breaking hearts of those who weep and mourn.
Think not to fly from justice, but be sure That all the fairest prospects of the nation Are rocked in cradles that must be secure From robbers and their creeds of desecration.
The birdlings, in their nests of procreation, Are often crying for paternal care. Heed not their cries, and drums of devastation Will call to arms the storm-gods of the air, To overwhelm the world 'neath billows of despair.
274 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
The Dawn of Hope For Saint and Sinner in the Life to Come
By J. H. Paul
1. "Are there Few That Be Saved?"
SUPPOSE we undertake to answer this question: "What doctrine is it, that more than any other has awakened the minds and quickened the hearts of men with a new confidence in this life and in the life to come?"
My answer would be those revelations through Joseph Smith which indicate the final salvation of practically all, and possibly all, of the human race.
When Parley P. Pratt, as he viewed the heights and depths, the truth and beauty, of the doctrines that restored confidence and faith to a world floundering in the gloom of the religions of despair, wrote in a sort of ecstasy, "The morning breaks, the shadows flee," he must have been contrasting with this glorious truth the representations of "orthodox" creeds: the lake of fire, the worm that never dies, the condemnation of heathens, unbelievers, and infants, and the endless tortures of the so-called lost souls.
Infinite Love and Boundless Mercy
THE restored Gospel had shown him that the Hebrew seers, the Son of the Most High, and the truths revealed to Joseph, in our day, unite in portraying, not a picture of endless future woe but one of infinite love and future joy. In expressions that, as the skeptic Huxley remarked, "are as tender and consoling to our human weakness and insignificance as a mother's embrace, but sublime also as the starry heavens and majestic as the onward sweep of ages," they proclaim to doubtful, fearing, misled mortals, "The eternal God is thy refuge, and underneath are the everlasting arms."
This was the voice of revelation a hundred lifetimes ago—a light that re-dawned upon the minds of men. When Joseph Smith explained that we are at school on earth, that we shall be at home in heaven; that we left our Father's courts on high for an experience in this intermediate school; and that, if we now faithfully keep our second estate, we shall quickly, as even the sinners shall finally, graduate into that higher school, that more perfect society of the future life, where the many mansions be.
We shall each be placed in that "mansion" which we have fitted ourselves to occupy—the one that will be best adapted for our reformation, growth, development, and transformation. We shall, in the words of Tennyson,
Rejoin the lost, the loved of earth, And greet each kindred breast, Where the wicked cease from troubling, And the weary are at rest.
The Foundation of Hope
THIS is most striking and useful of recent contributions to the thoughts and aspirations of mankind—that in all the years to be, and throughout the very eternities to come, the fathers of men cannot be complete without their children, nor the children without their fathers; and, still more wonderful, that
276 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
the felicity of the heavenly hosts—yea, and that of the Most High himself—depends in part upon the return of the prodigals who have wandered far from their Father's house, which is, indeed, their own home and heaven. Is Jesus our everlasting enemy? Or our all-wise, eternal friend? What shall our answer be?
Ideas But Recently Held
THAT the powers and personages of heaven are the enemies rather than the friends of the human race; that only a few, the elect, will be chosen for the better life of the world to come; and that the vast majority of mankind are doomed to a future of endless suffering, from which no deliverance can ever come—these ideas, a brief century ago, were leading doctrines of standard Christian theology. How such doctrines arose, and why they gained and maintained for ages so firm a hold upon the faith of the Christian world, was due to the very simple circumstance that these doctrines had apparently been taught by Christ and the apostles. As facts divinely revealed, these ideas were held to be beyond controversy. And certain scriptures, when taken by themselves, undoubtedly suggest that in the future world the fate of the great bulk of mankind—literally myriads of the human race—will be one of never ending sin and of eternal suffering.
"Fear Not, Little Flock"
IT was the teaching of Jesus that only a few should be found ready at his coming; and it is an obvious historical fact that comparatively few accepted his doctrines while he taught them on the earth. These were matters that greatly perplexed his disciples; and notwithstanding
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE 277
his reassuring words to them—"Fear not, little flock; for it is your Father's good pleasure to give you the kingdom" (Luke 12:32)—they still hesitated to believe that the great majority of people were wrong and that only a few were right. "Then said one unto him, Lord, are there few that be saved? And he said unto them, Strive to enter in at the strait gate; for many, I say unto you, will seek to enter in, and shall not be able." (Luke 13:23-24.) "For wide is the gate and broad is the way that leadeth to destruction, and many there be which go in thereat; because strait is the gate and narrow is the way that leadeth unto life, and few there be that find it" (Matt. 7:13-14.) Nothing, men argued, could be clearer than these scriptures, which plainly teach (do they not?) that those who are to be saved are few indeed.
The Few That Hearken
AND all among the few who are summoned "out of darkness into his marvelous light" * * * "not many wise men after the flesh, not many mighty, not many noble are called"; for "God hath chosen the weak things of the world" (I Cor. 1:26-27) to do his work—"a chosen generation, a royal priesthood, a holy nation, a peculiar people" (I Peter 2:9).
The truths of the spirit are usually hidden from the "wise and the prudent" and revealed unto the low and the humble—"the babes and sucklings." As in many other realms of truth, to be right and to be popular are different and often opposed things. Only the pure in heart, the poor in spirit, the meek, the merciful, the peacemakers, and especially "they which are persecuted for righteousness' sake," shall inherit the
THE DAWN OF HOPE 277
earth at last and shall enter the kingdom." All this, as every student knows, the New Testament plainly declares. The uniform declaration of holy writ is that believers are to be few in number, "the salt of the earth," the "light of the world," known before men by one distinctive mark—by their good works (Matt. 5:1-20). As to the great bulk of mankind, those who did not receive and those who merely professed to receive the gospel of light, they were to be found, at the time of Christ's second coming, in a state of spiritual darkness and unbelief. The churches themselves were to be in the last stages of apostasy, the "man of sin" revealed, and the anti-Christ himself was to be found exalted when the Lord should come again. "Nevertheless, shall the Son of Man, when he cometh, find faith on earth?" (See Matt. 24; Luke 18:8; I Tim. 4:1; II Tim. 3-4; II Peter 3; II Thess. 2, and many other passages).
The Many That Must Yet Hear
NOT alone was it easy and natural, it was almost inevitable, from the general tenor of scripture, to conclude that the gospel is for only a few, "the very elect," of whom also it was spoken that even they should "barely be saved." The more intensely men of learning, without the guidance of revelation and inspiration, studied and meditated scripture, the more they became convinced that only a few could be chosen for eternal life. Students of theology were triumphant in asking: Does it not follow, then, from all the scriptures, that only a few shall be saved? While practically the whole universe of souls shall be lost or condemned? "Not at all," answers the modern Prophet. But why not? "Because we trust in the living God, who is the Savior of all men" (I Tim. 4:10). "For God sent not his Son into the world to condemn the world, but that the world through him might be saved" (John 3:16-17). "Who will have all men to be saved * * * who gave himself a ransom for all" (I Tim. 2:4-6).
TWO thousand years have passed since these words of grace and mercy were spoken by servants of the Most High; in all that time only a few, compared with the total population of the earth, have hearkened to the teaching of their Lord and Savior Jesus Christ; and without question, even in our own day, the great majority of mankind have not so much as heard of his doctrines. What shall we say of the vast and uncounted hosts of men, the untold thousands of millions, who lived and died before Christ came? Are they lost? The descendants of Israel alone were to become as numerous as the sands of the sea; and the few of them who ever heard of the Master, for the most part rejected him.
The Cultured Greeks? The Noble Romans
SHALL the final estate of the millions of people in the populous empires of antiquity, and especially the Greeks, with their marvelous works and culture be one of condemnation? Grecian glory, Ruskin claims, is destined to survive long after the civilizations of Western Europe shall have crumbled to dust and been forgotten. What shall be the eternal estate of these truth seeking and artistic generations of mankind, who lived and died before the meridian of time, and hence had no opportunity to hear the truth for which so many of them longed?
278 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
Plato would have rejoiced to see Christ's day. At the conclusion of his inquiries into the basis and nature of moral truth and religious certainty, he said in a sort of despair, "We must wait till some one comes who can tell us the truth." Shall Plato and others without number, resembling him in their desire to know what they should do to be saved, be forever denied the privilege of hearing and believing on him for whom they hoped and waited?
Later, among the heroic Romans, consider such men as the noble Brutus. "His life was gentle, and the elements so mixed in him that nature might stand up and say to all the world, 'This was a man.'" Can any one, using his own powers of reasoning, maintain that the upright and divine soul of such a man will be eternally lost, simply because, through no fault of his own, he never heard of the gospel of peace?
Other Great Peoples
A FAVORITE diversion of the writer during a missionary period in Great Britain, was to ask the congregations that would stop to hear us on the streets and elsewhere questions like this: What think you shall be the portion, in the eternities to come, of the high-minded and courageous queen of these islands—Boadicea, who roused the retreating Celts and gathered her sons and warriors about her to resist the Roman invaders who everywhere "made a solitude and called it peace"—can you believe theologians who tell you that she and her noble comrades in arms are doomed to suffer forever the torments and punishments of the condemned, simply because she and they happened to be born and to live in a country to which the full light of truth had not as yet come? Deep in your hearts, you believe it not; for it really means that the great Eternal Father and the Son whom he sent into the world that the world through him might be saved, is not your eternal friend but your eternal enemy—a thought impossible to be true, since it is contrary to all that has been revealed of their nature and perfections.
Beautiful to look upon, beautiful to live with, she radiated goodness, purity, gladness; her mere presence was sanctification and blessedness. Surely she has earned the sweet repose of the ransomed spirit. As we gazed at her in her casket and noted how strong and peaceful she looked, the words of Holmes seemed especially appropriate for her:
"Death reaches not a spirit such as thine— It can but steal the robe that hid thy wings; Though thy warm breathing presence we resign, Still in our heart its loving semblance clings."
For Alice By Kate Thomas
Color and perfume! All spring ever gave Gladdens the world today; I may not see the green upon her grave She lies so far away.
[Various advertisements for milk, burial clothes, printing services, paint, vacuum cleaners, overalls, washing machines, heating, garments, laundry, jewelry, etc.]
CONTENTS
Portrait of Presidency and General Board of the Relief Society.........Frontispiece Relief Society Conference— Officers' Meeting, Morning Session.... 282 Department Meeting, Afternoon Session 293 General Session, Saturday Morning.... 311 General Session, Saturday Afternoon.... 324 Communion..............Merling Clyde 310 Portrait of President Louise Y. Robison. 308 Editorial—Mrs. Jeanette A. Hyde....... 309 Summer Outing for Under-nourished Children, 1930........................ 310 Text Book for the Course in Literature. 337 Presentation of Bathsheba W. Smith Portrait..................Kate M. Barker 338 A Prayer.............Elsie E. Barrett 338 Relief Society Annual Report............ 339 God, Open Your Door.. Myron E. Crandall 342 Salt Lake Visiting Nurse Association.... 343 Nature's Interpreter.. Myron E. Crandall 344
Organ of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints Room 20 Bishop's Bldg. Salt Lake City, Utah $1.00 a Year—Single Copy, 10c Foreign, $1.25 a Year—15c Single Copy Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah Phone Wasatch 3123
VOL. XVII JUNE, 1930 NO. 6
PRESIDENCY AND GENERAL BOARD OF THE RELIEF SOCIETY
Top row, left to right: Hazel H. Greenwood, Elise B. Alder, Emma A. Empey, Kate M. Barker, Nettie D. Bradford.
Second row: Amy W. Evans, Alice L. Reynolds, Sarah M. McLelland, Ida P. Beal, Emeline Y. Nebeker, Rosannah C. Irvine, Inez K. Allen.
Third row: Lotta P. Baxter, Amy B. Lyman, First Counselor; Louise Y. Robison, President; Julia A. Child, Second Counselor; Julia A. F. Lund, Secretary and Treasurer; Annie Wells Cannon.
Bottom row: Cora L. Bennion, Jennie B. Knight, Marcia K. Howells, Ethel R. Smith, Lalene H. Hart.
THE Relief Society Magazine VOL. XVII JUNE, 1930 No. 6
Relief Society Conference
THE Annual Conference of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, was held April 4 and 5, 1930, in Salt Lake City, Utah. President Louise Y. Robison presided, assisted by Counselor Julia A. Child. Sincere solicitude was expressed that First Counselor Amy Brown Lyman was prevented by an accident to her ankle from being present. Love and best wishes from the Relief Society were sent in her absence.
The Centennial Spirit
From its opening session the centennial spirit pervaded the entire Conference—the department meetings, the President's Banquet, and the General Sessions. The following sessions were held: An Officer's Meeting, for general, stake, and mission officers, every stake in the Church and every mission in the United States, Canada, and Mexico being represented. Seven department meetings, satisfactory, interesting, and largely attended, were held; and on the evening of the first day, April 4, a delightful Presidents' Banquet was given at the Hotel Utah.
On Saturday, April 5, there were two General Sessions, with overflow meetings. The departments featured were the Secretaries' Meeting, the first of the kind to be held during the general sessions of the Conference; the General Educational assembly to which all stake and ward supervisors and class leaders were invited; and the following departments: Theological, Literary, Social Service Case-Work, Work and Business Meetings, and Social Service Class Leaders.
The music of the entire Conference was one of its most delightful features. Ably directed by the Music Committee of the General Board, the Chorister, and her capable assistants, a truly delightful musical program was furnished for each occasion, no pains being spared by the leaders to make the music a real feature.
Relief Society officers from the Salt Lake County stakes were in charge of the ushers, and the promptness with which the large audiences were seated was an evidence of their efficiency.
The Record Attendance
Roll call showed every general officer and board member (22)
282 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
in attendance with the exception of First Counselor Amy B. Lyman; stake and Mission officers 659, including stake presidents 87, counselors 144, secretary-treasurers 71, other board members 346, mission presidents 11—a total of 681. In addition to the stake and mission officers a large number of ward officers were present at all department meetings and general sessions, with record breaking crowds of members. General sessions filled the Assembly Hall to capacity, and the overflow meeting, held in the Auditorium of the Bishop's Building was also well attended.
It had been intended to hold the general sessions on Saturday in the Tabernacle—a hope that was entertained up to the day of the Conference. However, it was learned that since the pageant was to be presented on Sunday, it would be necessary for the Tabernacle to be used by the pageant committee during their elaborate preparations. The Relief Society therefore held its conference in the Assembly Hall.
The Place of Meeting
IT has for some time been evident that the Assembly Hall is not adequate for the general sessions, and realizing that the present Conference would exceed all former sessions in attendance the Board earnestly desired to hold the general sessions in the Tabernacle where all could be comfortably seated. When it was definitely learned that this could not be, President Robison decided to repeat the program of the general sessions in an overflow meeting in the Auditorium of the Bishop's Building, which convened 15 minutes later than the one in the Assembly Hall. As the numbers on the program were completed, they were immediately repeated in the overflow meeting. President Louise Y. Robison presided in the general sessions in the Assembly Hall; Counselor Julia A. Child, in the overflow meeting in the Bishop's Building. The plan worked out well, hundreds who would otherwise have been unable to hear the sessions of the conference being comfortably accommodated. Though it was something of a strain upon those who had the numbers on the program, it was yet a joy to them to be able to respond and meet the emergency.
A wonderful spirit pervaded the meetings; and the sessions will long be remembered. Exquisite music was again a noteworthy feature.
Officers' Meeting Morning Session
PRESIDENT LOUISE Y. ROBISON
MY heart is full of praise and thanksgiving; may your faith and prayers sustain and help me to express what I would say. It seems to me that the words of our beautiful hymn, "From on High Jehovah Speaks," have been literally fulfilled. One hundred years ago the Church was organized, with six members, all men; but back of every man, sustaining him in every effort, was a woman. The same beautiful spirit of cooperation has always existed.
A Prayer
This morning in the preliminary prayer meeting the General Board prayed for this congregation as for itself. You always have our faith, our love. Exquisite tributes have come to us, among them this magnificent basket of roses in the Relief
RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE 283
Society colors and this lovely basket of carnations. Tokens from every quarter of the Relief Society give evidence of the strength of your support, and of the spirit you manifest in all your endeavors.
We are greatly touched by the presence here of sisters who have come from so far, many of them under great difficulties, to be with us upon this memorable occasion, but we miss the presence of our First Counselor, Amy Brown Lyman, who was prevented from returning from Los Angeles in time for Conference, as she had intended. We send to her our love and best wishes for a speedy recovery.
A Memory
AS I know that you are all thinking of our beloved Sister Williams; and I should like to spend the whole morning in paying tribute to her, one of the noblest of women, her life a beautiful example for every Latter-day Saint woman; and here, on this beautiful morning, I feel that we sense her presence and feel her influence to bless.
Since last October Conference, at the invitation of President and Sister Moyle, I have had the great privilege of going through the Eastern States Mission. In all my life, it seems to me, I have never had such a glorious time, and had my faith so strengthened. Meeting with the saints, seeing them in their isolation, we see that the only touch they can have of the gospel is through the Elders and Brother and Sister Moyle. To have daughters and sons in the mission field, how thankful you should be. Sometimes we feel that the young people are not taking life seriously; but I came home with the feeling that so long as we have young people such as those in the Eastern States Mission, and in every mission, we have no need to fear for the future of the
283
Church. No doubt I should feel exactly the same way about all the other missions in the Church.
Problems
THERE are, this morning, some problems that I should like to talk to you about and have you consider.
Social Service Institutes: We are hoping that there will be more institutes in the Church for the Social Welfare work. We shall try to help you pay the expenses of someone from your stakes to come to the General Office and take this training. The plan will be worked out later, when we shall be happy to tell you the details of it. We are deeply sensible of the marvelous work you are doing in the stakes, that of taking care of those who are in need, and of building up families. If there is anything we can do to make it easier for you, that is our desire to learn, our great objective to accomplish.
We ask, however, that you learn the purpose of an institute in your stake, since some of the stakes, not fully understanding what was intended, have not been prepared. Before you ask for an institute, work it out in your stake, get the cooperation of your Bishop and the sisters, and know that they want it and will be interested in it, and get the full benefit from the instruction.
Executive Officer's Meeting: Soon we are coming to visit you in your conferences, and to hold a meeting with the Executive Officers. Sometimes, when it is asked if there are any problems, the answer is that there are none, and the half hour allotted for this discussion is passed in talking of generalities. Later, when we are about to leave the stake, the sisters will say that there are many things they wish they could tell us about. Now sisters, since these Stake
284 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
Executive Meetings are given for your special benefit, when you have a problem, do not feel that you cannot have it known. You need not fear that possibly it will suggest some reflection on your stake, or that you are not doing your best. Do not feel that way; you stake presidents should feel about our coming as you would like your ward presidents to feel in reference to your visits. You know that there is nothing that gives you greater courage than to feel that you are helping the wards, and that they will consult you in reference to problems if they have any; so it is with the General Board and the stakes.
Union Meetings: Certain of the stakes, in order to encourage people to come to Union Meeting, are giving elaborate preliminary programs. This is not recommended. You have a short time at best, so please curtail your preliminary programs as much as possible, that you may help those ward workers who come to you, for the details of your special work.
Choice of Officers: In choosing officers select women who have an aptitude for their special work; but do not disrupt your organization with the thought of extending courtesies or promotions. It is most difficult for a woman who is an excellent secretary to be made a president when she hasn't the qualifications for a presiding officer; or to reverse the case. We do our best where we are happiest, and can there give the most service.
The Budget: Many requests to know about the budget come from the wards and in the stakes. Since the Bishops are trying to evolve the best method of handling their funds in the wards, the budgeting system may work out well. The Relief Society cannot budget the Wheat Interest Fund, nor the Charity Fund, nor the Annual Dues, nor
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE 284
even our General Fund unless it is certain that Relief Society needs will be met. This advice is given with the consent of the Presiding Authorities. The Relief Society is just a little different from the other organizations, and must have the use of its funds for specific purposes. Now, do not go home and tell the Bishops that you are not going to budget; but if they cannot see your position, take it up with your Stake Priesthood President. The Presiding Authorities hold that our funds must be kept for certain purposes, and you are within your rights when you ask for this.
Two-day Conference in October: For a number of years we have had only a one-day conference in the fall. Believing that we are thus missing rich contributions from our Stake and Mission Presidents, we are going to have a two-day conference next October, with the hope that we may hear from them. It would take hours to tell you of the wonderful work that is being done in the missions. We get excellent reports from Sister Widtsoe of the European Mission, and the same story of a marvelous work could be told from all fields if the opportunity were given.
Sustaining Officers: Some of our stakes and wards, in their earnest desire to do right, are sustaining the Priesthood Authorities. We desire every stake to have the Relief Society stake officers' names presented in their conferences once a year. Have the General Board sustained as it is now constituted; then read the names of your stake board presidency, officers, and board members, and have them sustained. The same thing should be done in each of the wards in ward conferences; but in that case just have the stake officers sustained as that board is now constituted, then name all ward officers and class leaders and teachers.
RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE 285
While we do sustain the Priesthood Authorities, it is not our privilege to present the names in our Relief Society conferences.
Vacations for Under-Privileged Children: This lovely spring weather recalls vacations for underprivileged children. Last year the stakes responded beautifully. Benson stake led, taking sixty children last Summer and giving them a glorious vacation. I should like to ask you sisters, if you feel like it, and if it can be arranged, if any of you would care to extend this aid to the under-privileged children of Salt Lake City.
Old Books: Books that were published years ago by our leading women are in some of the Latter-day Saint homes. Some of the older sisters may have these books, e.g., "Women of Deseret," by Tullidge, and "Women of Mormondom," by Augusta Joyce Crocheron. We should like you to give out in the wards and stakes that these are very choice books, and if the daughters of the younger generation do not appreciate them, that the stake and ward officers will see that they are preserved. If you have extra copies that you have no use for in your wards and stakes, we shall be happy to have them here at headquarters.
Relief Society Magazine Subscriptions: Again we make an appeal in reference to sending in subscriptions to the office. We have the order blanks that go free, but not one in ten of the orders that come in are written on these blanks.
285
They come on little slips of paper, and we do not know when the subscriptions expire or when they are to begin. While we truly have some very capable women in that department, they cannot read the history back in the wards and stakes hundreds of miles away. Try to get your sisters to use these order blanks, and to give receipts for the money given them.
State Conference of Social Work: We are frequently asked if membership in the State Conference of Social Work is obligatory upon stake and ward presidents. While we thoroughly appreciate the great benefit derived from the Conference, and are very happy to have our women participate, the payment of the annual dues is not a Relief Society requirement.
Correspondence: We are sorry that occasions have arisen when ward presidents have felt hurt. They have written into the office for information, and we have referred them to their stake president. You can see, sisters, that great confusion would result if the general office attempted to advise the wards. Will you kindly explain this to your ward officers.
Organizations and Reorganizations
We have here a list of organizations and reorganizations of the Relief Society. I should like to read every one of these and tell you of the virtues of these sweet, lovely women. I could go down the list and tell you the fine things, but time will not permit.
[THIS IS TABLE: Relief Society reorganizations showing Date, Stake, Released President, and Appointed President] Date Stake Released Appointed Dec., 1929 Zion Park (organized) Mrs. Josephine Sandberg Sept., 1929 Pioneer Mrs. Lettie T. Cannon Mrs. Edna T. Matson Oct., 1929 Liberty Mrs. Hazel H. Greenwood Mrs. Ida D. Rees Oct., 1929 Lost River Mrs. Mary E. Black Mrs. Elizabeth Hoggan Nov., 1929 Bannock Mrs. Minnie L. Sorensen Mrs. Cora Cooper Dec., 1929 Juarez Mrs. Fanny C. Harper Mrs. Nelle S. Hatch Jan., 1930 Nevada Mrs. Mary E. Horlacher Mrs. Louisa C. Johnson Jan., 1930 Tooele Mrs. Maggie W. Anderson Mrs. Lillian H. Anderson Feb., 1930 Carbon Mrs. Estella C. Dalton Mrs. Katherine H. MacKnight
286 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
I do desire to thank you wonderful presidents. I have asked that every letter coming into the office be brought to my desk, for it fills my heart with joy to keep in touch with you.
ANNUAL REPORT
Mrs. Julia A. F. Lund, General Secretary
IT becomes my pleasure to submit a brief statement of the annual report. Before doing this I wish to express my great appreciation to the secretaries of our stakes and missions. The report is but a small indication of the work that has actually been done by these efficient women.
Total balance on hand January 1, 1929, $172,572.09; total receipts during 1929, $308,102.93; total balance on hand and receipts $480,675.02; paid for charitable purposes $98,925.02; total disbursements $309,144.97.
Ward conferences held, 1,192; teachers' visits made 726,232; visits to sick and homebound, 184,166.
Membership in 1928, 62,550; in 1929, 62,902 an increase of 352. The membership includes 10,363 executive and special officers; 21,228 visiting teachers; and 31,311 lay members. The average attendance in 1928 was 24,775; in 1929 it was 23,716, a decrease of 1,059.
The amount paid for charitable purposes in 1928 was $100,836.76; in 1929, $98,925.02, a decrease of $1,911.74. Now, we feel that the Relief Societies have been just as vigilant as before in the distribution of relief and this is probably a very encouraging statement.
The annual report in detail will be published and forwarded to you within the next month.
PRESIDENT HOOVER'S CHILD WELFARE PROGRAM
Mrs. Marcia K. Howells, Member of General Board
I HAVE been much impressed with the beautiful spirit that is here this morning and the testimony that has been borne; and I hope that speaking of this rather material subject will not detract from it. Because the problem we consider this morning is new and of utmost importance, we thought it worthy of consideration.
Splendid work in child welfare has been done and is now being done under the direction of President Hoover. He has had vivid and stupendous experiences in ministering to masses of children. When appointed to ration Belgium during the Great World War, millions of its children were his constant care. Later, when he was asked to assume the responsibility of Administrator of Food in America, his work extended into the kitchen of every home in our country. After the war, when famine swooped down on Russia, Poland, and other lands in Europe, Mr. Hoover was asked to carry the relief. At this time perhaps millions of children were saved who might otherwise have perished.
Aiding the Children
STILL more recently, when the great Mississippi River, called the father of waters, went out of control, the refugee children, when they returned to their homes after the flood, were in better condition than they were before the flood came. This was due largely to the work under his direction. Dr. Wilbur remarks: "Mr. Hoover has had a unique experience in dealing with children. I doubt if, in the history of the world, there
RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE 287
has ever been a man who saved the lives of so many children, or who carried groups of children through such great crises."
When the American Child Health Association was organized, Mr. Hoover was made its president; while holding this office, he wrote his famous Child's Bill of Rights, which has been translated into many languages, and has found its way around the world. It is a unique document. It says, "The ideal to which we should strive is, that there shall be no child in America that has not been born under proper conditions; that does not live in hygienic surroundings; that ever suffers undernourishment; that does not have prompt and efficient medical attention and inspection; that does not receive primary instruction in elements of hygiene and good health; that has not the complete birthright of a sound mind in a sound body; that has not the encouragement to express in fullest measure the spirit within, which is the final endowment of every human being."
A Conference on Childhood
WHEN Mr. Hoover became president, he was still concerned with the young people of this nation, knowing that they are the hope of the future and the country's greatest asset. Desiring facts about these young people, he picked outstanding men and women to form a planning committee preliminary to calling a conference at the White House. The purpose was to study the present status of the health and well-being of children, to report what is done for child health and protection, and to recommend what should be done. Dr. Wilbur was chosen chairman of this planning committee. He has been a practicing physician, president of 287 the American Medical Association, and the Leland Stanford University. He is now Secretary of the Interior. Dr. Barnard is a director; he has spent 20 years in important public health work. Mr. Davis, Secretary of Labor, was chosen vice chairman. Dr. Wilbur, the chairman, was in San Francisco this summer at the social workers' convention. He is a tall, slender man, rather plain looking, but very sincere and earnest and democratic, and very much to the point. When I saw him and heard him talk, I was impressed that he resembles our mental picture of Lincoln. In this survey about 700 men and women are engaged, each an expert in his own special field. Chosen from all parts of the country, they obtain facts from the government and private agencies and formulate a national program to promote health and protection for children. The Third Assembly MANY conferences have been at the White House on war, peace, slavery, but we feel that this is going to be one of the most important. It is the third conference to be called at the White House to consider welfare problems of the child. The first was called by President Roosevelt in 1909, and was followed the next year, in 1910, by the organization of the Children's Bureau. The second conference was called by President Wilson, ten years later. At the end of the war it seemed desirable to know the conditions of the children in this great and important country. Through the Children's Bureau and other agencies, six million children were examined, and their health status recorded—a stupendous piece of work. Now this third conference has been called, but not yet held.. Pres- 288 ident Hoover suggests that we again take account of the condition of our children, What is the present progress and the future need? The country has enjoyed ten years of unparalleled success and the children have been greatly affected. The current belief is that our children live under better home conditions, are better nourished and attend better schools. Is this just a belief developed out of a desire for these conditions? Or is it a fact? President Hoover and his committee want to know about this, and facts are the things they are dealing with. President Hoover says, "There is a crying need to make available in simple, lucid terms, the findings of experts." Too Many Novelties At the present time we are exposing our young people to too many new experiences and activities. Who knows what the result will be? We are opening a new world to them, and introducing them to many noise-making devices—radio, phonograph, jazz music, talking pictures, automobiles. These have their use and value, yet with this value come certain dangers which we must consider. Take for instance the radio, perhaps the most wonderful invention of modern times. It has educational and entertainment value in keeping the family at home and together. Its uses are many; yet physicians tell us that the coming of the radio has developed a disease— radio nerves. A few years ago we almost felt that the automobile was a luxury, and now we know it as a necessity. Yet the usefulness of the automobile comes to us at a very high cost. In the next year there will perhaps be 100,000 in our country alone killed and maimed by automobiles. We used to think the rattlesnake was the most dangerous RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE thing, but there are more than a hundred times as many children killed each year in our country by automobiles as there are by snake bites. The Child Is the Future AYS Dr. Wilbur: "Anyone who thinks forward into the future of this country must think in terms of its children. We are simply drops of water in the stream that goes by. We stay a shorter or longer time before we evaporate, and others come along in the stream of life. Whatever we may do in the building of health, means nothing unless the children who follow us, build intelligently and well. Whatever we do in the matter of good citizenship is of no importance whatever, if the things we build up in this country of ours are destroyed because we have not placed in the minds and the hearts of our children the right attitudes, and the right things so that they will go forward." The official name for this conference is, The White House Conference of Child Health and Protection. The whole problem is divided into five sections, each section being divided into sub-sections. The idea is that no piece of the subject important to child health and protection shall be overlooked. All the things we can think of are to be taken up, and many things we have not thought of will be considered by these 700 experts, men and women, who are © studying this question. What Is Child Welfare The child's body, the child's mind, the diseases of the child, nutrition— all these things will be considered since the child's health is the most valuable asset of all. Not only the regular types of education, but many special types, will be considered. The handicapped child, not RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE only the crippled, but those with damaged hearts or disturbed lungs the child with only a partial mind— what can be done for these? In how many ways may we help them? Also 'many, many more phases of educational work that there is not time to mention will be given attention. The neglected child will be considered. It is said that the neglected child is the victim and responsibility of some adult. Someone has said that every normal child acts in a so-called abnormal way at certain times in its life, so he must not be called abnormal just because at times he does things we think a normal child would not do. There are children who are disturbed mentally; what can be done for them? Equality of Opportunity OE thing that President Hoover emphasizes is the equality of opportunity. Let us make every child's opportunity just as great as possible, let them have equality of opportunity.. How can we help this ideal to work out? Educators tell us that every child should be given some responsibility for which he should be held. His jobs should be done in a given way in a given time. In big cities it is difficult to find jobs for boys and girls.: "The world will march forward only so far as we give to our children strength of body, integrity of character, training of mind, and the inspiration of religion." I am very happy that President Hoover mentioned this last—the inspiration of religion. LILLIAN D. LILLYWHITE Former President Netherlands Mission Relief Society BELOVED sisters and co-laborers in the cause of truth, I trust 289 that I may be the recipient of your faith and prayers. This is the first Relief Society conference I have had the pleasure of attending in Zion. I have, however, had the privilege of attending many spiritual Relief Society feasts in Europe under the able leadership of various mission presidents. Sisters Lucy W. Smith, May Wells Whitney, Ray R. McKay, May Booth Talmage, and Leah D. Widtsoe. More than presidents to me, I would rather call them mothers; the association with such noble characters makes one bigger and better. Home Again After an absence of more than three and a half years in foreign lands, it is wonderful to be home again. When I bade my folks and friends, and these grand old mountains, farewell on my first mission, I did not appreciate them; but after wandering in other lands and among other people, I began to feel the loss of something very dear to me. I missed the strength of these everlasting hills, and the feeling of peace and safety one enjoys here among relatives and friends. During the six and a half years. Spent in the mission field I have fully realized that there is only one America in all the world, and only one Utah in all America. Experience has painted on my memory incidents that will never fade; one I wish to relate to you this morning. A Stranger from Home WHEN the S. S. Rotterdam anchored at the port of Rotterdam, in July, 1920, on my first mission, I applied the title of a certain song to myself—"I'm a Pilgrim, I'm a Stranger," for I was unable to understand or speak one word in the Dutch language, save one sentence which I had learned while 290 crossing the ocean—'"I am. Pleased to make your acquaintance." When we arrived in Holland and attended Sunday School, the only thing I was able to enjoy was the beautiful, welcome, home spirit that distinguishes our Church from all others. That evening at 6 we attended the sacrament services. "Let the Mountains Shout for Joy" was the closing hymn of this meeting. As they sang their song of praise, I burst into tears, vowing if I were ever permitted to reach that land of Zion, I would never depart from it again. But since that I have filled a second mission to Holland, and now am willing to spend the remainder of my life in this service of the Master, having. Come to the conclusion that it does not make much difference where one lives; 'it is how well one lives that counts. The Work in Holland T is wonderful to be able to bear testimony of the truth of the restored gospel, and to testify that Joseph Smith is in very deed a prophet of the living God. We were honored to labor among the Dutch people—a very. Religious people, very religious and believing. When we are able intelligently to present the gospel to them, they understand, accept it, and are willing to give their all for the truth. -In Holland the Relief Society - work is growing in excellence, usefulness, and members. We have in that mission twelve well organized Relief Societies with a membership of over 250, including, not only the young, the middle aged, and the mothers, but Bee Hive girls as well. Working in harmony for the relief of the poor and for the comfort. Of those in distress, they are ministering to the sick and the needy, and scattering cheer and sunshine wherever they are called to labor. 'These RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE good sisters respond to every call with a spirit that is amazing. I know that God loves them and is — blessing them. Daily for their devotion and love for the work. That people I shall always love for their honesty and wonderful spirituality. Our efforts have not been in vain; our time and money have been well spent; we have been wonderfully blessed. MRS. ROSE ELLEN B. VALENTINE Former President German-Austrian Mission Relief Society AMONG memory's pictures will be hung a new one this morning. It is a beautiful sight to behold, and to be in your presence in this great Relief Society work. May I first. Extend to you all greetings from the women in Europe who are working in this organization. With President Leah D. Widtsoe at their head. I will read the names of those who are working in the different missions: Sister Tadje, Swiss-German Mission; Sister Hulterstrom, Swedish Mission; Sister. Jensen, Norwegian Mission. Dear Sister Booth, who was many many years in the Armenian Mission is with us back home now. These women send greetings to you, and not only these sisters, but the local. Sisters who hold office in the German-Austrian Mission. Their hearts yearn to meet. With us here in Zion. What is woman's mission?.. This: is a problem we may meet every day. Holy. Writ proclaims it from the beginning. God said it was not good for man to be alone, and he gave unto Adam a help-mate. In the last dispensation,. Three months after the Church was organized, God spoke to a woman; Emma Smith. Ro your last Magazine;: the March number, and note how RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE beautifully it tells of the direct message from God to one of the sisters. It was necessary that they help in this great latter-day work. Twelve years after the Church organization, our great organization was effected. In the message to Emma Smith, I read some of the duties of her calling. One was to comfort her husband when his soul was in trouble. She was to go with him and act as a scribe, and was to be ordained by her husband to expound the scriptures and exhort the Church as the Spirit of God should direct her. Compare the Church with the home in this way. As woman is to the home, so is the Relief Society to the Church. Sister Widtsoe gave us this wonderful message to take to all of our organizations in the European Mission: It is woman's duty to create and maintain peace in the home, in the branch, in the Relief Society. Relief Societies in Europe In 1911 I went over to take charge, with my husband, of the Swiss-German Mission. At that time there were three Relief Societies in that mission, in German-Austria, in Hungary, and in France. During our term of five years the Hungarian mission was closed. Elders were there learning to speak that difficult language, but made few converts. The French Mission was opened in October, 1912, with one of the Swiss-German elders as its president. As you know, two and a half years of that time we were without elders; for the war was on, and we were alone. In October, 1926, we went to the German-Austrian Mission, the Swiss-German mission meantime having been divided. Now we have only a part of the German-Austrian, the Hungarian, and a part of 291 Romania, in the mission. Sister Sarah Cannon was in the Swiss-German Mission when we went over, and now Sister Tadje is there. Work in Nutrition WITH these women I have worked very closely in Relief Society work, because these missions are twins. We use the same language, also the same outlines. The missions publish every three months a magazine called "The Wegweiser," containing all of the lessons and instructions. The lessons we planned extended until the close of 1928, when new ones became necessary. At that time a great exposition of nutrition was being held. I felt the need of nutrition lessons for our Relief Society women when I knew how they lived and the food they were eating. They eat good food, but I felt that in the preparation of their foods they could be helped. I said to Sister Tadje, "One lesson a month on nutrition." 'One lesson on the Book of Mormon, one lesson in literature, and one for work meeting." The women over there love to work so much that they want to work at every meeting. These work meetings were mostly used in preparing articles for bazaars. What the Branches Do NE bazaar was held after I left, in a small branch with 38 members, in the Holland Mission. They obtained contributions from the big establishments, mercantile and grocery stores. In this little city they had spent their time doing fancy work. They put on this bazaar for the benefit of the poor in that city. They held an entertainment, and took in over 900 marks. During the year they had 94% of their women at Relief Society meetings. 202 In the last three years a wonderful thing has taken place in the missions in Europe. In 1927 President Talmage called at Dresden a conference of the mission presidents and their wives in Europe, and we had the honor of being hosts to these wonderful men and women. Outlines and plans were discussed and carried out in our missions. The conference in 1928 was held in Paris, under the direction of President Widtsoe. The spirit of the Lord was there, and. Wonderful things were accomplished. In 1929 this conference was held in Liver- -pool, and we had the opportunity of spending a day or two on the grounds of the great Scout Jamboree. 'We gave nearly two weeks to planning and outlining. Activities in Mission Mi' I also read from my little book some of the things we did in the German-Austrian Mission. In connection with the district conferences, which we held twice a year, a Relief Society convention or conference was held. We held 64 of these, with an average attendance of 56, ranging from 12 to 300. We got out a record book, similar to the books you use here, covering a three-year record; also a Relief Society teachers' book and a teachers' creed card. We got this plan from the Magazine, to which we are very grateful. Special teachers' conventions were held in each branch, and a yearly branch Relief Society conference, more than half of them responding. Thirteen new organizations were effected, making 52 active organizations with an enrollment of 1,664. I gathered up the end of the chronological data that we had in the German-Austrian Mission of our Relief Societies up until 1916. Then the thought occurred, why not have RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE the histories written? All except three histories were written and copied in the new minute books. The twelve lessons on nutrition were printed by a local brother who is editor of the paper. The scriptures say: "Knock and it shall be opened unto you." I went to the door of the hygiene specialist in Dresden. I had seen the display in the great exposition in Berlin, and needing help in getting out these lessons, I wished to meet Dr. Vogle, the best authority in Europe, if not in all the world. A Scientist Aids WHEN I knocked at the door, a man answered. I told him I wanted to meet Dr. Vogle. He shook his head, saying, "No, you cannot meet him; he is too busy and important a man." As I had a great need for his help, I told him I was working with 1,600 women in the German countries, as I wished to help them take better care of the health of their families. He called over the telephone, to me, saying, "You may go in." I told the doctor who I was and what I wanted—a text book, one I could place in the hands of our sisters. He said, "I am writing a small one, covering this subject. As soon as it is finished you may have one." The subject of things not good for man came up. Filled with the spirit, I said to him, "Would you be interested to know what our people have on that?" He said that anything along historical lines of nutrition interested him. I told him that in 1833 the Lord spake to our Prophet, giving to him the Word of Wisdom—telling us what to eat and drink and what not to eat and drink. He was very much interested. I said that alcoholic drinks RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE are not to be partaken of, that they are for the washing of the body. He asked, "Cannot you write me an article, explaining what you have?" I answered I would be glad to do that. The Article Accepted E wrote an article, which he published in full in their Hygiene Wegweiser, an exclusive magazine for scientific people, and circulated through all Europe. Later he asked if we did not want to display in this great exposition something of the effects of clean living. I have just received a letter from him now, asking what we are going to do. We went to the American Consul at once, knowing that we should come in with the United States in their display; but the United States is not going in as a country and so prohibited us. 293 In 1927 we celebrated the one hundredth anniversary of the coming forth of the plates. We had a contest on in the mission for selling the Book of Mormon. I am no sales lady, and do not know how to go about it; but one night I knelt in prayer and asked God to give me strength, and show me how I could help. I felt that I was the mother of those missionaries, and I wanted to do what they were being asked to do. In the morning this thought passed through my mind, and I almost heard a voice say, "Begin in your own home." Rising I thanked God; then dressed and went with joy. We had workmen there doing all kinds of work, and they needed the gospel. I sold two books before breakfast, and had a wonderful time that day. Before the day was finished I had sold 22 Books of Mormon. I was thrilled and happy. Department Meetings (Afternoon Session) Secretaries' Department ES meeting convened in the Auditorium of the Bishop's Building after the close of the Stake Officers' Meeting. General Secretary Julia A. F. Lund presided. It was the first Department Meeting of the Stake secretaries, and was very largely attended. Mrs. Lund paid a tribute to the past and present secretaries, and stressed the importance of their work, since an organization is judged by the records it keeps. Relief Society secretaries are also the historians of the organization. A practical demonstration of "How to Audit the Annual Report," was conducted by Mrs. Ellen F. Shepherd. The copy of a report form was used, each step explained, and the most common errors made by secretaries pointed out. Time was the only element that curtailed the discussion, which was most practical and interesting. Educational Department ASSEMBLY HALL on the Temple Block was filled by Stake and Ward Supervisors and Class Leaders, Counselor Julia A. Child presiding. The subject "How to Teach" was ably presented by Dr. L. John Nuttall, whose address will appear in detail. 294 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Adult Training and the Larger Life Dr. L. John Nuttall HERE is an indescribable satisfaction that comes with a feeling of self-importance. It is not the spirit of boasting. It isa feeling of the value of self. One of the aims of all adult training classes is to develop this fine type of self-evaluation, so that each person goes on trying to do what will enrich and ennoble and expand his own life.; What Is Education? Education is keeping this spirit alive and satisfying it. Doctor Richard C. Cabot's "What Men Live By," points out that education is in pursuit of each of us—that our work gives us a place in the world and relates us to it; play releases and recreates our energies; love for persons and causes binds us to be loyal to something larger than ourselves 'and worship enlarges our view and enables us to see the greatest things in life. There are three subtle elements in this personal development: first, an enlargement of the power of appreciation; second, a growth in the keenness of vision and skill in work that makes us greater producers and leaders; and third, in a democratic world such as ours is rapidly becoming, an increase in the ability to evaluate, criticize, and judge what is going on, so that our citizenship may contribute to a safe yet sure progress. "The greatest task of each one of us,' said the governor of Minnesota in a recent address, is to keep ourselves normal, fair-minded, kindly, and constructive. Even the critics and pessimists whom I have cited, without exception place their greatest reliance on education and on teachers, in the schools and outside, in building better men and women and in bringing in a better society." GROUP of out-of-school teachers working in a voluntary church organization can see the relation of their work to the achievement of this three-fold aim. The attention of these teachers should be directed to three factors—teacher, subject matter, and teaching procedure. The teacher must lead with an assurance that comes only with preparation and a love for her work. Many volunteer teachers are overburdened because while they teach they carry the entire responsibility for intellectual activity. A passive student, even though he be an adult, does not represent the best teacher. One who stimulates, who sees problems and issues, who brings in material to be studied, who devises methods of presentation, is the real teacher. What Is Teaching? DOCTOR BURTON says: "Teaching is the stimulation, guidance, direction, or encouragement of learning. It is setting the stage upon which learning takes place, it is giving opportunity for learning to arise. It is the guidance of such spontaneous learning as appears in the natural activities of children or older students. It includes all the activities performed in the direct furtherance of learning." 'When appreciation and enjoyment are the aims, the power of the teacher as a person is especially important. In this field the sensitive feeling enables one to make choices that uplift and point to vistas of beauty. There are RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE examples of nobility and kindness all about us. Use these as illustrations rather than always focus the attention on corrective needs among the sordid. When a person can, as a part of his own intellectual attitudes, bring a class he instructs to desire to recreate the environment in which they live and at the same time make them capable of enjoying the activity and the fine choices made in that environment, he has the power that directors of adult classes need. In a recent report the president of Columbia University stresses the need of leadership in this field: The New Problem "With these changes there comes "a new and difficult but very pressing educational and social problem. This problem is that of finding ways and means for the useful and agreeable occupation of leisure. It signifies that men must be taught new wants and given new tastes, such as can only be met and gratified by the judicious and fortunate use of those hours that need no longer be spent upon productive industry. Outdoor sports, enjoyment of nature, a love of the fine arts, and a growing appreciation of their ideals and chief accomplishments; a love of reading, not merely that of any mechanically printed page, but of something which should be read for its form and style and nobility of thought, even more than for the subject matter with which it deals or the information which it may convey—these are instruments for the worthy use of leisure. Moreover, some part of the leisure of every citizen, man or woman, should be given to the willing support of those causes, religious, ethical, relief, educational, which have the public interest as their end and which in our American society are fortunately left for their advancement to the 295 sphere of liberty and the voluntary cooperation of individual men and women." Education for Adults ADULT education must have materials. What is chosen to be taught should be selected on the basis of the aim of education. Adults are educated for life just as truly as are younger people. Young folks, ' however, are on the threshold and looking forward to a variety of activities. Older folk are approaching the other end of life, and look forward to Jess variety and uncertainty in activity and are more and more interested in intrinsic satisfactions. From England, in a lecture given by Dr, L. P. Jacks, principal of Manchester College, comes a beautiful statement of this aim in Adult Education: This, I venture to think, is what we mean when we insist upon education for life. We are asking for the wisdom that can be acted. We are asking for an education that adult men and women can translate into the art of wise living, thereby raising the aims of education and not lowering it, as some people accuse us of doing. Art is simply wisdom in action; and the greatest of all the arts, the one in which all the others find their crown and glory, is the art of wise living. Give us the wisdom that leads up to that. Give us education for life." The Materials Needed MATERIALS for adult education in classes the Relief Society maintains, should provide for appreciation material that brings immediate satisfactions. History should be filled with discussions of how men culminated important events, with less emphasis on the early life and biography of historical 296 characters. Literature should contain some philosophic evaluations as well as mere narration. One reason why books seem silly to the older members of these groups is found in this mere story-telling kind often assigned for reading. Poetry should be artistic and filled with emotions of adulthood. Poems published in the Relief Society Magazine are worth studying even though they don't come in the lessons.. The subject matter should also contain material designed to aid the class members in becoming more intelligent and skillful workers in vocation, community life, and parenthood. One of the reasons why efficiency declines with age is of course an actual decrease in physical strength. Another more powerful cause is lack of knowledge. Occupations shift in relative importance, and pursuits once gainful at times must be abandoned. To one who has studied the social and economic world in which his labor is placed, such a necessity comes less as a shock than to one who merely works on, not seeing clearly the industrial procession and therefore entirely unprepared for the eventual "laying-off" and search for other employment. We Must Be Ready Our Church and community histories are full of the heartbreaks, the feelings of ingratitude, caused by the necessary removal from office and from committees of persons who have labored unceasingly but ineffectively in welfare activities. These need instruction in the social and personal problems inherent in our changing life. They need to see that either they must adapt in their work or seek release from responsibility. If taught these changing relations among institutions RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE and persons, their lives will be spared the sorrow of sudden removal. Parents need to study, not to condemn, modern life. In the world of today children must not be made dependent, because inevitably the family group will break up into smaller units. We have accepted the discoveries of science and the achievements of inventors, and with them have builded a new economic life, which in turn has changed our social relationships. The certainty with which some parents point out the way of life in a world about which they know little, is very soon demoralizing because what they say doesn't work. No child responds happily to training for a world that has been. Adjustments Needed Ideals come down from the past; skills must be based on forecasts of the future. Ideals may be taught as controls of conduct by parents. Fathers and mothers who train young people must know of the world and must learn of its changes. A recent work published by the Institute of Child Welfare of the University of Minnesota says: "The changing conditions of modern life have made necessary new adjustments in the family and home, The functions of the home have changed, as the work of the members of the family has taken them more and more away from it. But the craving for a home, and for intimate understanding and affection, persists, though often unsatisfied. Progress, which has done so much for the comfort and convenience of the family, has also been responsible for changes to which we find it more difficult to adjust than to luxuries such as electric lights in place of candles, and running water in place of that lugged from a well. RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE "But the different type of family life which we condemn or deplore today hangs on the fact that no longer need the members of the family share in making candles, or cleaning lamps, or pumping the water. They must now, in many cases, leave home earlier to earn the money to pay for the electricity that furnishes water and light, and washing and ironing facilities, "In caviling at modern life, we are likely to forget that at no time in the history of the race has the man been the sole provider. The family has always been dependent also on the ability of the woman and children to create food out of raw material, clothes out of wool. It is no new thing that the members of the family have undertaken, but the fact that they must now scatter in order to produce the same result brings about many new problems." How to Judge To judge the world and by criticism guide its destiny is the right of maturity. By what basis shall they judge? Surely the greatest criterion is that of human happiness. The material of adult classes should contain studies of life itself and the effect of forces operating thereon. New forms of wrong doing perhaps should receive added emphasis and old taboos perhaps be condemned less. New recreational activities form a source of joy not felt by some of its critics because they don't participate. Centralization of power in a representative government is a great experiment. Are we learning facts about its effects? No nation or people ever before has tried universal compulsory education. The effects of such a program are more far reaching than the mastery of learning skills and the powers of expression. What are the attitudes 297 in the life of a person toward a government that forced him to go to school? New methods in schools will produce results different from the results of the old' education. The subject matter for adult classes must be new or nothing is learned. Newness may consist of material never before experienced or previously learned topics with new interpretations or related to new problems. The Listless Class (a is danger of listlessness in classes of older people because of the lack of real learning. By mere chance I priced up the February number of the Magazine, which contains the lessons for April. The first deals with the Book of Mormon. The outline says: "This lesson is filled with big ideas, religious, political, and social," calling attention to the fact that the narrative itself is less important. Most adult classes have heard many times the narratives in this lesson. The newness is evidently in the similarity of the "big ideas" to the current thought of today, and in the possible use of the Book of Mormon men as models in character development. Certain contrasts also appear between the thoughts of the lesson and modern thought. These contrasts stimulate thought and are really the means by which adults are able to teach old historical material effectively. Class' teachers should remember that it is hardly justifiable to take the time of their members in listening to a repetition of an already known narrative. Here Are Good Lessons HONESTY is a lesson in this same magazine. The writers of the outline seem to combine two aims: to insure honesty in those being taught and to develop skill in 298 the class members in training children in honesty. The first aim must establish a meaning for honesty and an analysis of modern life. No teacher could in these days be content with merely exhorting to honesty. Either your class members don't need this or they need more. The subject matter must be enlarged. In helping a class to train children in honesty a study of the psychology of learning is necessary. There is experimental data available showing that mottos, formal institutional pledges, and formal lessons are not effective. Examples of honest dealing in modern business are needed. As the lesson outline suggests, the group attitudes and ideals need study, and the relative degree of social prestige held by honest men pointed out. Most of this material will have real interest to class members. Having them learn it is real teaching while simple exhortation and preaching don't get very far. Aims for Lessons This lesson can also aim at developing a power of criticism and improvement of our social order. When an experiment seems to show that the Boy Scout organization does not produce boys more honest than the other groups, we can say that the experiment is wrong, we can condemn the Boy Scout Movement and refuse to support it, or we can study the implications of the experiment, the possible connections in the scout program, and thus become constructive critics. Corruption in public office needs study. Is or selection of men wrong? 'Does our system tempt strong men beyond resistance or is the situation one of deliberate planning among groups of dishonest RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE people? Teachers can help us to become competent critics. The biography of Madam Schumann-Heink is new material to most class members. Present it clearly and interestingly and supplement if possible: by some records of her singing. Not Facts, but Action SOCIAL service means action. The lesson deals with statistics on defectives and descriptions of methods employed in various places in their care. Action must be at home. This lesson would be a sorry failure if it ended as a fact lesson. Do we have defectives here? How are we detecting them? What care, public and private, is provided? What can we do? Shall we do it? A teacher becomes an organizer, a promoter, and interest will develop largely in terms of the reality of the home problem. So we may analyze the problem of subject matter for adult classes. SUGGESTIONS on method may be helpful. -A recent writer, in School and Society, points out that adult education differs from other forms of education in three particulars: 1. Its aim is to provide for an exchange of vital experience. 2. Its method is founded upon the assumption that real education must not have its roots in external authorities, but rather in personal experiences with reality. 3. It therefore proceeds by means of a technique of discussion in which the teacher or leader performs the function of guide and stimulator but never that of lawgiver. Types of Teaching Three types of teaching activities are usually recognized: 1, Perceptual experiences, which consist of object teaching, pictures RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE of various types, models, charts, with explanations in vivid oral ways. 2. Reading. 3. Problem solving. Palmer's "Progressive Practices in Directing Learning" outlines the following: Reading to Remember is encouraged by: 1. Learning exercises: a. Questions that are explicitly answered by the text. B. Requests to prepare for a debate or discussion of a specified topic. C. Requests to underline or check statements judged to be important. 2. Test exercises: a. Requests to reproduce the text read either in free expression or in response to specific questions such as: What does the author say (a topic discussed in text). B. True-false, completion, multiple-choice, and most other kinds of "new examinations." c. Requests to summarize or outline the text from memory. To Gain Facts Searching for information is encouraged by: 1. Requests to prepare reports on specified topics. 2. Questions that are answered by the text although not explicitly stated by the author. 3. Questions requiring the collecting of information as a basis for a judgment such as: Is the author unprejudiced in his discussion? What is the author's attitude toward......? 4. Requests to complete a skeleton outline, especially when the items must be secured from different sources. Reading with a critical attitude is encouraged by: 1. Thought questions such as: Is 299 the author consistent? Is he justified in his statement? Would the author agree with........? 2. Requests to compare events, persons, etc. 3. Requests to compare two or more texts. 4, Requests to evaluate portions of a text. 5. Requests to compare author's view with student's experiences and beliefs. '6. Requests to explain meaning of words, phrases, or sentences as used by the author. (Usually employed as test exercises.) Beyond the Book Supplementing the reading of a text is encouraged by: 1, Requests to prepare an explanation of statements in text. _2.:'Requests to prepare illustrations of statements in text. 3. Requests to supply reasons for statements by author or to fill in other gaps in his trend of thought. 4. Requests to determine implications or consequences of statements made by author. Analytical study of text is encouraged by: 1. Requests to determine how emphasis is secured. 2. Requests to note choice of words (diction) and sentence structure. 3. Requests to compare the style of one author with that of another. 4, Requests to identify or to prepare lists of figures of speech, or other items of form. 5. Requests to correct errors. (This assumes that errors exist in the text.) 6. Requests origin of words. To determine the Learning to Enjoy Reading for enjoyment is encouraged by: 300 1. Requests to select a story or book which the student enjoys and which he thinks the other members of the class would enjoy. 2. Inquiries concerning characters or portions of material read which were enjoyed most. 3. Requests to make out a list of books to recommend to other students or adults. His outline of guides to problem solving is as follows: To stimulate and assist pupils in carrying on reflective thinking the teacher should: 1. Get them to define the problem at issue and keep it clearly in mind. 2. Get them to recall as many related ideas as possible by encouraging them: a. To analyze the situation. B. To formulate definite hypotheses and to recall general rules or principles that may apply. Noting True Values 3. Get them to evaluate carefully each suggestion by encouraging them: a. To maintain an attitude of unbiased, suspended judgment or conclusion. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE b. To criticise each suggestion. C. To be systematic in selecting and rejecting suggestions, and d. To verify conclusions, 4. Get them to organize their material so as to aid in the process of thinking by encouraging them: a. To "take stock" from time to time. B. To use methods of tabulation and graphic expression, and c. To express concisely the tentative conclusions reached from time to time during the inquiry. METHOD implies organization of subject matter and a guide of learning activities. Teachers should not assume that it is their responsibility to tell all of the lessons. Learning really takes place better when learners are active. Adult attention is difficult to hold unless careful planning is done. If the teachers desire really to develop attitudes they must be personally enthused, use subject matter that is valuable in the development of real adult powers, and use a method of teaching consistent with adult interests and study habits. Theological Department Tr large department meeting was held in the Assembly Hall, Mrs. Cora L. Bennion presiding. The principles of correct teaching, especially as applied to the Book of Mormon was the subject of an inspiring demonstration by Professor John Henry Evans, an authority upon this subject. He dealt with both the content of the lessons and methods of presentation. Questions published in the May issue of the Relief Society Magazine furnished the outline. Literary Department THE Literary Department Meeting was held in the Ladies' Parlor of the Hotel Utah. Mrs. Jennie B. Knight presided, making a very fine little speech of greeting, with responses from the stakes. Mrs. Eleanor J. Richards, president of Malad Stake and Mrs. Ethel D. Payne, president of the St. Joseph Stake, each spoke to the subject, "What Have the Literary Lessons Done for your Stake?" The feeling was that if the lessons had done anywhere near as RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE much as in the stakes reported, they had been worth far more than the efforts put forth to secure them. They help young people as well as Relief Society members. It is also believed that the literary lessons have increased the membership, and added to the happiness and the growth of the organization. As a stimulus to busy mothers to reach out for the type of culture and strength that comes from an appreciation of the fine things of life, and the inspiration we gain from our storehouse of ideals, these lessons give confidence to our women creating the desire to possess libraries. 301 Mrs. Knight gave a preview of the next year's lesson work presented in a panorama form. ''Short Stories" will be the subject for next year's work. The text book to be used is Great Short Stories of the World, by Barrett H. Clark and Maxim Leiber. These books may be obtained from D. C. Heath and Company, 182 Second Street, San Francisco, California. The' special price to the Relief Society is $2.88 each, postpaid. Mrs. Rosannah C, Irvine gave a demonstration of the short story, from Bret Harte's masterpiece, The Outcast of Poker Flats. The Short Story By Jennie B, Knight ETRARCH, the famous Italian B poet, (1304-1374), wrote: "While in every other respect I feel the infirmities of old age, in my studies it seems to me that I grow younger every day. Therefore I shall be glad if death comes upon me while I am engaged in reading or writing." New Course in Literature You will be pleased to learn that Miss Fay Ollerton, one of our own girls, is to supervise the Literary Lessons for the next two years. A student of {the Brigham (Young University and the University of California, specializing in English and history, and in short story writing, Miss Ollerton is well qualified for the work. She has attended also Columbia University and the Pulitzer School of Journalism, where she obtained her master's degree. While in New York she earned a great deal of her living, and sometimes all of it, by writing. At one time she won a prize offered by a national magazine. The thesis for her degree had to be on a journalistic subject, and she chose as her title, "The American Periodicals” Treatment of Mormonism Since 1850." This work was intensely interesting; she had to read everything that had been written, good, bad, or indifferent, about Mormons since that year. Some of the professors at the school became interested in her thesis, and the Director of the Pulitzer School was good enough to give her an A and some special praise. Several of her stories and articles have been published in the Relief Society Magazine and the Deseret News. While at Columbia she took a short-story course under Dr. Dorothy Scarborough, a writer of fiction of national repute. At present she is with a large publishing company in San Francisco. 302 That she will have a sympathetic understanding of Relief Society women may easily be inferred, as she is the daughter of Mary Ollerton, who was president of the Parowan Stake Relief Society. The Short Story CONCERNING the course Miss Ollerton has furnished the following items: The short story is as old as civilization. Egyptian tales, known to be five thousand years old, have been found, and from the perfection of their art men must have practiced it thousands of years before the stories we know of were written. The story is a fundamental need in the hearts of all mankind. Our demand for it in this day of accelerated living ds 'even greater than in the ages when men hewed their first stone weapons and learned to give honor to the man who was born with the love of story telling. During the coming two years, one of the purposes of the Relief Society is to give to its members a panoramic view of the short story, extending over the entire globe and showing the high points in this age old endeavor of man to entertain and to instruct. Stories of almost every nationality and of every age will be part of the view—some that flourished in Egypt in the dim 3,000 B. C.'s; stories from Greece and Rome before and in the days of the Caesars; literature from our own Bible and from. The Talmud; stories that entertained in ancient India and China, always a choice part of our rich heritage. These and contributions from many other lands, America included, will be part of the panorama. Many Modern Examples Finally the study of the short RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE story will bring us to our own times, where it is necessary to understand what is meant by a short-story and a story that is merely short. For the short story (written with or without the hyphen) as we understand it today, was perfected in the nineteenth century and has come in our century to mean something as definite as lyric poetry or a familiar essay. It is largely to America that the world owes its present form of the short story. We do not forget, as we say this, that at about the same time Edgar Allen Poe wrote his history-making "Ms. Found in a Bottle” and "Berenice," two of the first short stories as we know them now. Over in France a great artist by the name of Prosper Merimee was also composing stories that were to influence the entire world. Yet it was largely from America that the inspiration came to make of the short story a definite form of art. America Pre-eminent AND why America? It does not seem at all incredible to us now when each year sees hundreds, even thousands, of novels pouring forth in bright colored jackets;—when on Broadway hundreds of new dramas are witnessed by questing play-goers each season; and from ~ Hollywood literally thousands of dramas are unrolled each year for the whole world to see and hear; —also that there are so many short stories published that if a person did nothing else he must needs go blind before he could read the attempts to satisfy America's monthly thirst for escape through means of this art. American literature back. In the early and middle nineteen hundreds was a thing to be snubbed, a RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE subject not to be discussed in polite European circles, or among our own intelligentsia. Of course, exceptions were made for Washington Irving and occasionally for Cooper, but the world did not consider that we had produced any literature worthy of naming. English novels, because of the lax copyright laws, came into America on seemingly every wave of the Atlantic. So little, if any, did the publishers pay for the rights of getting them before the public that any American novel was foredoomed to failure. Poe the Leader Yet a new and virile country always finds a way and America's way to be heard was through the short story. Since old Chaucer's day there had been only a few names worthy to be linked with his as a creator of stories. In the 19th Century an erratic genius by the name of Poe was to give to the world a new style in the writing art, one that would set a pattern which all of the short story writers since his time have attempted to equal or make better. Because Poe's theory of the short story is still the 1930 writer's theory, it will serve best to explain what the short story became in the 19th Century and is today. "In the whole composition there should be no word written of which the tendency, direct or indirect, is not to the one pre-established design, and should be done by such means, with such care and skill, as a picture is at length painted which leaves in the mind of him who contemplates it a sense of the fullest satisfaction." The Single Impression ey eel then, the short story must emphasize totality of effect. It must be short enough to 303 be read through at: one sitting; it must give a single impression, it cannot digress. It must have unity of action, unity of tone, unity of color, unity of emotion, and must exclude everything that interferes with this one impression. After Poe there was a considerable time when only men of mediocre talent walked the road of the story teller's art. To be sure we must not forget Hawthorne, who was perhaps the greater genius of the two. He lived and wrote during and after Poe's time, but his stories more often lacked the one small thing that hindered their perfection, and they must more often be classed with the tale than with the short story proper. Hawthorne and Irving, with the privilege of the tale, could emphasize character, a moral issue, local color, action, and what not, all in one attempt; whereas the short story, fostered by Poe, achieved totality of effect by emphasizing only one thing. Short-Story Writers Fitz JAMES O'BRIEN learned Poe's art. Edward Everett Hale with his "Man Without A Country," came in this period too, but there was no outstanding genius until the time of Bret Harte; and Harte, who wrote best of the gold days of California, did one thing that neither Hawthorne nor Poe could do. He made his stories purely American—American with splendid colorings, and conflicts of temperament, and full of a kind of romantic realism. After Bret Harte, some years elapsed before the great avalanche of American writers was upon us. Then came William Dean Howell, H. C. Bunner, T. B. Aldrich, Mark Twain, James Lane Allen, Sarah Orne Jewett, Mary Wilkins Freeman, Henry James, O'Henry and 304 a score of others. They brought the art down into our own day, when at least every third neighbor harbors aspirations, not always secret, of seeing his name printed among the immortals and receiving substantial checks meanwhile. Over in England Rudyard Kipling, that superb story teller, found his way to fame, and hundreds have tried to follow him. In France the art flourished, perhaps in a higher state of perfection, than in prolific America. Balzac, Daudet, Musset, Maupassant, and Bazin are only a few of the masters. In Russia, partly through the means of Chekhov, a different phase of art, sometimes called Naturalism, had its start and is in vogue today. Because of America's inspiration, Sweden, Denmark, South America, Italy, Spain, all the civilized world has taken a new interest in the creating of stories. Effect of Short-Story Method HE short story has by no means stopped with itself. It has so influenced our novel writing that totality of effect is creeping into some of our best books. Indeed the short story is at least one of the parents of the present heyday of the drama. What the present trend of the short story is and who the writers are, will not be discussed here, for many of you are already interested in this subject and the rest of you will form your opinions as the course progresses. The study of the short story, which is to be yours for the next two winters, will, as said in the beginning, touch the high points in Social Service Class Leaders' Department THIS meeting was so largely attended by Relief Society RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE woman's age-old form of pleasure in creating tales. The panoramic view will reveal the art of many nations, but even more it will show how we are all fundamentally alike, and that in many essential ways man's nature has not changed from the time the water wheels of ancient Egypt helped to moisten the soil until this day when silver-winged planes fly the air and the music and entertainment of the world can be brought to our firesides by the mere pressure of a button. The course will do one more thing: It will attempt to gather for. You the best of the story' writers of our Church and to urge the need of preserving in some enduring form of the short story our pioneer heritage. A Course to Enjoy WE are convinced that you will approach this work in the spirit of intellectual pleasure seeking. It will help you to understand life. We interpret life through our Own experiences. Through books and stories others speak to us, give us their most precious thoughts, and pour their souls into ours. To read enlarges one's horizon. Let me suggest read aloud as much as possible. Think of books in terms of personality. Walt Whitman said in referring to his book, "Leaves of Grass," ''Whoso touches this book touches a man." Be independent—you have a right to your own opinion, and if you are broad minded enough to study your opinion will change. Read for your own pleasure—not for mere thrills, but for the high pleasure which is genuinely cultural. Men, eager to hear the material on this very important subject, that it was necessary to adjourn to Barratt Hall, where Mrs. Inez K. Allen RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE presided. The following statement and outline formed the subject for an enlightening lecture: "Psychology and Personal Development," by Professor M. Wilford Poulson. Professor Poulson's Remarks During the last hundred years Mormonism has been an important factor in helping people to appreciate more than ever the importance of human values as contrasted with mere physical property, or things. Physical things are merely means toward ends, but human beings are ends in themselves—capable of infinite and eternal progress. We are all acquainted. With the wonderful flash of divine inspiration which says, "As man is, God once was; and as God is, man may become." We may have noticed that it does not state that we can be certain of becoming as God is, but rather that it is a statement of possibility —''man may become" is the wording. The national Woman's Relief Society of the Church has ever been in the vanguard when it came to the appreciation of human or personality values. In line with this fact, it has been decided during the coming season to study a number of lessons intended to enlist the science of psychology. The aim is to help the members enhance their own personalities, so as to become in turn more efficient in the service of others. DEFINITE final decision as to the text to be used has not been made, but the nature of the nine lessons has been somewhat definitely agreed upon. I shall first outline by means of topics and brief comments, the general nature of these lessons, and then discuss somewhat more adequately one of them. 305 A tentative listing of the lessons is as follows: What Is Personality? I, Personality—Its meaning and development. (a) Definition. (b) The traits that make for efficiency in dealing with other people. (c) Those which mar our influence with others. (d) Possibilities for the adult development of important personality traits. II. The Problem of the Inheritance of Mental Traits. (a) Comparison of Physical and Mental Traits. (b) Limitations of our knowledge of human heredity. (c) Fallacies of the fatalists in this field. (d) Grounds for a hopeful attitude. Habit and Growth III. Habit formation and growth. (a) Advantages of habits—how they may set us free— (b) Disadvantages of habits, how they may enslave us. (c) Formation of new habits and breaking undesirable ones. (d) Retaining our plasticity and vitality. IV. The Problem of Memorizing More Efficiently. (a) Memorizing ability in relation to age. (b) Efficient and inefficient methods of memorizing. (c) What we should and should not burden the memories with. Conversation V. The Psychology of Conversation, Writing and Public Speaking. (a) Appreciation of the point of view and needs of others. 306 (b) Being a good listener— (c) Personal achievement—Being a person that others would like to listen to—.(d) How to increase one's mastery of language. VI. Developing Originality and Initiative. (a) What is originality in the best sense of the term? (b) Relation of originality to imitation. (c) How may originality and initiative be developed? Better Thinking VII. The Problem of Better Thinking. (a) Types of Thinking. (b) (Counterfeit thinking—can we recognize it in ourselves and others? (c) Pitfalls of thinking we need to recognize and avoid— (d) Genuine or creative thinking. VIII. The Gospel of Relaxation. (a) Valuable hobbies to cultivate. (b) Tendencies 'to over-tension in American life. (c) Relaxation and sleep. (d) What the gospel may do to give poise and control. Leadership IX. The Psychology of Leadership. (a) Arbitrary despotism vs. The democratic leadership of insight and service. (b) Personal traits that distinguish leaders. (c) Where we should lead and where we should follow. (d) Cultivation of insight and other necessary qualities of good leaders.: Final Test of Value OMEONE has said that the ultimate test, the measure of the RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE worth of an institution, is the kind of personality it tends to produce. On this subject two of our Latter-day Saint writers have recently expressed themselves. One wrote: "In the contemplation of that personality in which so much of God was manifest in the guise of man, there is felt a tide of moral life, a classification of moral insights and righteous purposes. With the perception that personality is the highest thing in the world and that the enhancing of it is the greatest end in life, there comes a sense of imperfection, of the slightness of attainment as compared with infinite possibilities. The heart is transformed, and things are seen in new proportions." (Life of W. H. Chamberlin, p. 182.) With gifted insight the other writes: "There is no greater job and no more profitable undertaking than the improvement of our own lives. We cannot dream ourselves into a great life. We must simply take ourselves in hand where we are, and with patience and determination overcome those weaknesses which hold us back." Social Service Case-Work Department SOCIAL Service Case Work, as a Department of the Relief Society Conference, met in the Auditorium of the Bishop's Building, Mrs. Amy W. Evans presiding in the absence of Counselor Amy B. Lyman. It was largely attended by ward presidents and social service aids. Mr. D. A. Skeen, chairman of the Commission to select a site for the School for the Feebleminded, was the speaker. Thanking the members of the Relief Society for doing so much for the establishment of the school, he took occasion also to stress the great need for such an RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE institution. Only recently have we looked upon the problem: of the feebleminded as one calling for very serious consideration, serious in the idea that it may be remedied. Such schools are now established in all but two of the states. In these schools a proper training of the feeble-minded has so developed that many of the pupils have become self-sustaining and useful citizens instead of a heavy expense. The public pays the penalty for neglect of proper training for mentally inferior people. It is estimated that nearly half of the delinquent people in our state have tendencies of the feebleminded. A site for the school, consisting of 500 acres with wonderful water supply has been secured in American Fork, and construction of the State Training School for the Feebleminded will shortly begin. The meeting was concluded by the presentation of two case studies, one by Mrs. Elizabeth C.: Williams, the other by Miss Margaret Davis, social case worker in the Welfare Department of the General Relief Society office. Work and Business Department Work and Business Department Meeting was held in the Auditorium of the Bishop's Building. The presiding officer, Mrs. Amy W. Evans, spoke to the workers on "Welfare Values of the Work and Business Meeting." A recommendation by the committee, endorsed by the General Board, was that each member of the ward Relief Societies contribute one new article of clothing each year to the ward organization. Remodeled clothing, if in good condition, would be acceptable. If at any time a stake has more than it can use, it should get 307 in touch with the General Board, who will be glad to act as a clearing house to receive and dispose of the articles. If in the entire stake there is not sufficient need, and the clothing accumulates, or if any stake does not have enough clothing to supply the needs of its poor, the stake president should notify the General Board. Public showers, it was felt, should be discouraged, as the sort of help required is not usually given, and there are better ways of accomplishing the results than through public showers. Mrs. Nettie D. Bradford discussed "The Value of a Stake Plan." She urged all the stakes to have their plans at the beginning of the year, as an objective to which all the wards may look with better results. Outlines that certain stakes and wards had submitted were read. They cover a different program for each month of the year, thus offering a sufficient variety. The plan of having light refreshments served at the Work and Business meeting often works out well. A display was given of some of the articles that had been made in the work and business meetings, and the methods of preparation explained. Mrs. Lotta Paul Baxter spoke on the report of the survey on the Work and Business Meeting, giving some of the questions used in the survey; and certain of the answers were read. The survey has demonstrated the Work and Business Meeting in many of the stakes to be one of the most valuable. Mrs. Baxter urged stake and ward presidents to choose capable and genial supervisors, who are able to keep every member of the organization interested, PRESIDENT LOUISE Y. ROBISON With the basket of roses presented by the Relief Societies of the ten stakes of Salt Lake County, for the Centennial Conference of the Relief Society. THE RELIEF SOCIETY OF THE CHURCH OF JESUS CHRIST OF LATTER-DAY SAINTS Motto—Charity Never Faileth THE GENERAL BOARD MRS. LOUISE YATES ROBISON - MRS. AMY BROWN LYMAN - 3 5 MRS. JULIA ALLEMAN CHILD - MRS. JULIA A. F. LUND = 3 Mrs. Emma A. Empey Miss Sarah M. McLelland Mrs. Annie Wells Cannon Mrs. Jennie B. Knight Mrs. Lalene H. Hart Mrs. Lotta Paul Baxter Mrs. Cora L. Bennion Mrs. Amy Whipple Evans Mrs. Ethel Reynolds Smith Mrs. Rosannah C. Irvine Miss Alice Louise Reynolds Mrs. Nettie D. Bradford President First Counselor: 3 -. Second Counselor 3 - General Secretary and Treasurer Mrs. Elise B. Alder Mrs. Inez K, Allen Mrs. Ida P. Beal Mrs. Kate M. Barker Mrs. Marcia K. Howells Mrs. Hazel H. Greenwood Mrs. Emeline Y. Nebeker Mrs. Lizzie Thomas Edward, Music Director RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Editor - - - Manager - - Assistant Manager. 3 7 Room 20, Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah Alice Louise REYNOLDS - Louise Y. Robison Amy Brown Lyman Magazine entered as second-class matter at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah Vor. XVII JUNE, 1930 No. 6 EDITORIAL Mrs. Jeanette A. Hyde NE of the most genial women of the Church is Mrs. Jeannette A. Hyde, who on account of her very — responsible position as Collector of Customs at the Port of Hawaii, has severed her connections with the General Board of the Relief Society. The announcement of her resignation was made at the recent Relief Society Conference held April 4 and 5, in Salt Lake City. M®: HYDE has a winsome personality; a voice that is soft and persuasive; a smile that is contagious; a kindly disposition— all in all she is a woman of unusual charm. She has served as a member of the General Board of the Relief Society nearly seventeen years, as she became a member of the Board July 3, 1913. She served as Business Manager of the Magazine from ' September 24, 1914 until April 22, 1925, M8: HYDE has visited many Stakes of the Church as a convention and conference visitor and is widely known by women all over the Church. She is what we call an all around woman; as she has achieved distinction in a number of ways. She has been an outstanding woman in the public life of her State and Nation for some time, and is noted for her skill in the domestic arts. Many of us will call to mind that a few years ago Mrs. Hyde captured four or five prizes at the State Fair for jellies, bottled fruits, pickles and other viands. Those who have 310 shared her hospitality at any time know that she is a past-master at cooking—in all a good homemaker. Se is serving her Church and Nation by following President Hoover's instruction in regard to law enforcement. The women of the Church are proud of Mrs. Hyde's work affecting the 18th RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE amendment, Fortunately there are a good many Latter-day Saints in Honolulu where Mrs. Hyde is located, so that while her services are not available here at Church headquarters, she can render excellent service in her present location. We wish her every success and God's speed in her work always. Summer Outing for Undernourished Children—1930 The good work of several of the Stake Relief Societies during the last few years in giving undernourished and underprivileged children a two weeks' vacation has been much appreciated by the General Board and the Social Service Department. This year the same need exists, and any stake that feels to extend an invitation to this type of child for summer outing this year should let this be known at the office of the General Secretary as early as possible. Last year the work for the first time was largely centralized in one stake—Benson, which cared for about 60 children, while several more: children were sent to other stakes by request. In previous years children were sent in smaller groups to two or more stakes. Arrangements for this year are not yet made and the convenience of stakes will, of course, be considered in arranging dates, number of children sent, ages, etc. The usual stay has been two weeks, though in individual cases it has been longer. The children are sent from the ages of 5 to 13 and 14 in a few cases. The children may go at any time between July 1st and August 15th, that is most convenient for the stake receiving them. Transportation is arranged by the headquarter's office. And word from interested stakes will be appreciated at as early a date as possible. Communion By Merling Clyde There isn't a joy at morning There isn't a joy at noon, Can equal the joys at evening In fire-lit shadowy room. 'Tis then that cares of the day time All melt in the embers glow, And dreamily there, hand clasped in hand, Comes peace only true hearts know. Relief Society Conference General Session, Saturday Morning PRESIDENT LOUISE Y. ROBISON We greet you this morning in love, and in appreciation that you are here, and for the work you are doing. We are greatly honored in having with us our dear Sister Grant; Sister Fox, president of the Young Ladies' Mutual Improvement Association, and her _ counselor, Sister Beesley; Sister May Anderson, president of the Primary Association, and her counselors, Sister Ross and Sister Thomas. I suppose you have all been reading Church history. Can you imagine what the women of the Church were thinking of and praying for one hundred years ago today? While their names do not appear as those who took part in the organization of the Church, we know that the prayers and efforts of every one of them was bent toward sustaining the organization, and those who were working for it. Sister Emma Hale Smith, I am thinking of this morning. Church history shows her contribution to be such a glorious one. She traveled, labored, wrote, prayed, and comforted all with her love up to the time of the organization, after which our Father in Heaven blessed and recognized her with a revelation. As I consider her anxiety on that day, and that of the other fine women, I am hoping that they are able to have a vision of this beautiful congregation, here today, meeting in the name of our Father in Heaven, and giving thanks that he did restore the gospel through the Prophet Joseph Smith, I look forward to a strengthening of our testimonies at this conference. It seems that of all the songs of Zion, those we have heard this morning are among the most exceptional; and of all the singers in Zion, we could not have sweeter or more sacred voices than those who have charmed us here. Brother Tracy Y. Cannon, who, busy with this pageant, yet came here and inspired us with his music, we sincerely thank. Our beloved Sister Lalene H. Hart, a member of the General Board, and Relief Society President of the Canadian Mission, is not with us often. When she came into our General Board meeting yesterday it just seemed that we experienced the feelings of a fond mother who rejoices when her daughter comes home after a long visit. Sister Hart will now speak.
MRS. JULIA A. F. LUND
General Secretary Presents Officers.
At the last general assembly of the Relief Society in conference, certain changes have been made in the personnel of the General Board. Owing to the fact that one of our most capable board members found it necessary to be absent for an extended period of time, it became necessary to accept the resignation of Mrs. Jeannette A. Hyde. We do so with a feeling of genuine regret, as Mrs. Hyde has given many years of valuable service in the cause; but as her position is one of patriotic service to the nation, it has been deemed advisable to accept her resignation.
MRS. LALENE H. HART
General Board Member and President of the Canadian Mission Relief Society
May I preface my remarks this morning with these verses:
A LITTLE LAD'S ANSWER
Our little lad came in one day
With dusty shoes and tired feet;
His playtime had been hard and long
Out in the summer's noontide heat.
"I'm glad I'm home," he cried, and hung
His torn straw hat up in the hall,
While in the corner by the door
He put away his bat and ball.
"I wonder why," his auntie said,
"This little lad always comes here
When there are many other homes
Pleasant as this, and quite as near."
He stood a moment, deep in thought,
Then, with the love-light in his eye,
He pointed where his mother sat,
And said: "She lives here; that is why!"
With beaming face the mother heard;
Her mother heart was very glad.
A true, sweet answer he had given—
That thoughtful, little, loving lad.
And well I know that hosts of lads
Are just as loving, true, and dear;
That they would answer as he did:
"'Tis home, for mother's living here."
Two Kinds of People
Too, am happy to be here this morning, because my mother is here, because you mothers are here, and because of the inspiration that this throng of mothers gives to us who have just returned from those other mothers who are trying to live this wonderful gospel. There are two kinds of people in the world—those who can do things, and those who can put up excuses for not getting anything done. When the program of the Relief Society came to me, I wondered which class I should go in. Then I thought of the story of the Master, in the parable of the man who had prepared a great feast and had invited his guests. When the time came for the feast, there were many excuses; the guests did not appear, having other things to do. The Master drew this picture to show us the folly of those who, having the honor of being guests of the Father, yet refuse that call. Our Father, through his servants, has invited me and you to come to this feast, where many things have been prepared that will help us to the fullest realization of our own powers. May we not apply this parable to the work in the Relief Society? After we have been admitted as members, can we afford, as did the guests in the parable, to allow even legitimate or praiseworthy excuses to stand in the way of our loyalty to that organization? The opportunity comes only once. The doors do not stand open always, and just as the host went out into the highways, and brought in the blind, the lame, the halt, to partake of that feast, so if we refuse to be guests of our Father in the things that he has provided for us, he will reach out to those who are seeking for that light and truth which will bring joy and happiness to them.
Loyalty to Country
By the other mission presidents from foreign missions, I feel that we are supremely loyal to this country; but because we are American citizens does not lessen our love and respect for other nations and their citizens. For the Book of Mormon says: "Behold, this is a choice land, and whatsoever nation shall possess it, shall be free from bondage, and from captivity, and from all other nations under heaven, if they will but serve the God of the land, who is Jesus Christ, who hath been manifested by the things which we have written," I am glad that I live in this choice land, but my love for other people is not lessened because of that. I believe that being a true American citizen makes me better prepared to be a good Canadian citizen, and I want the women who come from Canada, whether from the Canadian Mission or from the stakes of Canada, to know that my love for them is just as great. My heart has been stirred by reading the articles by women in connection with world peace. They have come from women who have lived in war-torn nations, whose hearts have been torn in such a way that they are reaching out to other people. Of all the women of the world, we have it most within our power to bring peace to the world. There are many women working, as we are, on the big problems that are facing the nations. The women of Canada have the same problems to solve as we have—social problems, and the message that comes from other women, and other nations.
The Three Objectives
There are three objectives for us to realize: First, to preach the gospel to every people. We may not talk, we may not say a thing; but the life that we lead is the one thing that proclaims this gospel. If we are living pure lives of happiness and contentment, according to the commandments which the Lord has given then we are preaching the gospel to all people. Second, to develop higher lives among members of the Church. The purpose of the gospel is to help people to rise to higher levels, to develop in them the highest possible attributes; and if we are doing that, we are serving our fellowmen. Third, to develop our community into a fit place for our people to live in. We have wonderful privileges—opportunities as women, and duties as well. The greatest privilege and opportunity that can come to woman, is to perpetuate the race, to be mothers of men, and to establish the destinies of nations. Is not this a wonderful privilege? And should we not respect it? We are responsible, as women, where men have failed. We must go on. The responsibility is with us. To meet these objectives, we must study the life and growth of nations, of people, noting what brought about the rise or the fall of nations, and what were the contributions of people now passed away to the development of the human family and to the world as a whole.
Women are Responsible
Before we shall reach these objectives, we have much to do. We are responsible for the traits, thoughts, and actions of our times. How shall we arrive at these objectives? By living this wonderful gospel, restored to us with all its privileges and opportunities. You mothers who have missionaries in the Canadian mission are preparing them for a greater mission than they have ever had before. The greatest honor that can come to women is motherhood; yet even that does not compare with the monument that our mothers and our young people are building in the boys and girls who go into the mission field to proclaim this wonderful gospel. So, mothers, rejoice in these young men and women because they are monuments to you, everlasting monuments, which will not crumble and decay while that spirit of faith is kept within them.
MRS. EMELINE Y. NEBEKER
Member of General Board
As I occupy this position, a feeling of deep humility and reverence comes over me—humility, because of my inadequacy; reverence, because of the magnitude of this work. "Reverence comes with all we see; God writes his lessons in each flower; And every singing bird or bee Can teach us something of his power."
The Sense of Beauty
That feeling is with us when we are out of doors, in the canyons, or wherever we see God's greatness in Nature; but it should be with us always, within our buildings, within our work, within ourselves. Today, in this building, that feeling is present. In Leviticus, chapter 19, the Lord, speaking unto Moses says: "Ye shall keep my sabbath and reverence my sanctuary; I am the Lord." Have we remembered this commandment? If we have, the minute we step within the walls there is an atmosphere of peace, of awe, of nearness to God. Our members have the opportunity of being helpful and are most helpful, to those less fortunate. Broad tolerance and a kindly spirit are most effective in spreading the doctrine of the brotherhood of man. This spirit, or atmosphere of reverence, we cannot have unless it is within us. We may talk about it, preach about it, write about it; but unless we feel it within, the note does not ring true, and the goal for which we are striving is blurred and sometimes lost to view. The kingdom of God is here. Should we not remember what Paul's Hebrews 12:28 says; "Wherefore we receiving a kingdom which cannot be moved, let us have grace, whereby we may serve God acceptably with reverence and godly fear."
MRS. HAZEL H. GREENWOOD
Member of General Board
With the opportunities of the Relief Society I have always been very much impressed. Development comes to us through well directed energy. To develop spiritually we must turn our thoughts to spiritual realities, and lifting our minds above the common things of life, center them on things of God. We may raise our thinking to a higher plane, but force and energy must maintain it there. Spirituality flourishes in an atmosphere of religious thought and action. Constant application to the study of the gospel with prayerful thought and action develops the faith and courage necessary. If religion is applied theology, then true spiritual development comes through application to our lives of religious studies.
How the Mind Grows
Any true development is brought about by systematic thinking and study. By exercise and application of our mental powers we grow mentally. If our mental processes are sluggish, they may be revived by proper varied and selected reading, which brings us to our best, and rouses each faculty to its most vigorous life. "Give me a book, health, and a June day," says Emerson, "and I will make the pomp of kings ridiculous." Women whose lives are given over to home and family duties, often neglect the value of good books, which broaden our horizon and enrich our lives. One of the greatest factors in our development is our social contact. As Webster says, "More than books, more than schools, society educates." Mothers need the relaxation that comes through social contacts, going back to their homes enriched and enlightened. Friendships formed by kindred interests are lasting. The gospel makes us all kin, and in its progress we feel a sense of joy and responsibility. As women we must keep abreast of the times, able to take part along with our husbands and children. How much more companionable a woman can become if she is acquainted with what is going on, and has a rich fund of knowledge and experience.
To Educate the Family
It is said "Educate a man, and you have educated a man; but educate a woman, and you have educated a whole family." How great a responsibility is ours in moulding and directing lives. The Relief Society, founded and directed by divine guidance, gives us spiritual, mental, and social development: spiritual, through its religious studies; mental, through its stimulus; and social through its contacts. Surely it has been in the hands of the Almighty in the making. He has had his eye over it from the beginning, and is directing its destiny. The women who have formulated its policies have been inspired of God. We are caught in the surge of its progress, and will continue to participate in its success.
Organization and Development of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints
Alice Louise Reynolds, Member General Board
The Beginning of Wisdom
In a Sacred Grove in Fayette, Seneca County, New York, a boy knelt in humility, for he had read the epistle of James which stated: "If any of you lack wisdom, let him ask of God; that giveth to all men liberally and upbraideth not; and it shall be given him." That passage gripped the soul of the young man and so he put it to the supreme test. A pillar of light appeared exactly over his head having the brightness of the sun. Enveloped in this light he saw two personages whose brightness and glory defied all description; they were the Father and the Son. The Father calling the boy by name, said: "This is my beloved Son, hear him."
Founding of the Church
On the 6th day of April, 1830, six young men, for the oldest was but 31 years of age, met in the house of Peter Whitmer, Sr., and organized the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. This was to fulfill the legal requirement, because a goodly number were already converts, among them Lucy Mack Smith, the mother of the Prophet's wife, who will always be revered wherever women of the Relief Society assemble. Before the organization of the Church the Angel Moroni had delivered the Sacred Records from which the Book of Mormon was translated. John the Baptist had restored the Aaronic Priesthood: Peter, James and John had placed their hands upon Joseph and Oliver Cowdery, bestowing upon them the Melchizedek Priesthood.
The New Book
The Book of Mormon had been translated in an astonishingly short time, as the first published volume was given to the world in 1830. The first Conference of the Church was held on the 9th of June in Fayette, Seneca County, New York. The Church numbered at that time 27 souls; but there were other persons in attendance, some were friendly, others believed. At this Conference the Sacrament was administered and those recently baptized were confirmed. There were also a number of ordinations to the Priesthood. Yet trouble was in the air, for bitterness was manifested on the part of those who opposed. Yet the work of the Lord progressed. Early in the history of the Church 24 persons were baptized. Among these baptisms we find Jerusha Smith, wife of Hyrum Smith, and Emma Hale Smith, wife of Joseph Smith the Prophet. The record shows that among the very earliest baptisms into the Church thirteen were women—the women exceeding the number of men by 2. From that early date women have heeded the Gospel call, from every part of the earth.
Revelations Received
This was a period when important revelations were being received. Among others in July, 1830, was a revelation to Emma Smith, the wife of Joseph Smith, in which she was called an "Elect Lady" and was directed to assist her husband in writing and to be his scribe, that Oliver Cowdery might be relieved for other duties. Among other things she was called to select hymns for the Church; for said the Lord, "My Soul delighteth in the Song of the Heart, yea the Song of the Righteous is a prayer unto me and it shall be answered with a blessing upon their heads." At this time Joseph Smith was living in Harmony, Pennsylvania, but was forced to leave and take up his residence in Fayette, New York. Even his father-in-law, Isaac Hale, turned against him because of the falsehoods which were circulated and the prejudice existing in the neighborhood.
Temple Site Dedicated
On the 2nd day of August 1831, Joseph Smith, Oliver Cowdery, Sidney Rigdon, Edward Partridge, William W. Phelps, Martin Harris and Joseph Coe were far from home, for they met a little west of the Independence Court house and there dedicated a spot for the Temple of the Latter-days. The locality has since been known as the Center Stake. On the 9th day of August, 1831, Joseph Smith and the Elders who were to return, started on their journey back to Kirtland. On the 25th day of January, 1832, a Conference was held at Amherst, Ohio, where the revelation known as section 75 in the Doctrine and Covenants was given, calling a number of elders to take missions, two by two, in several directions throughout the land. On the 16th of February the vision of the glories was given. March 18, 1833, the First Presidency was organized with Joseph Smith as President and Sidney Rigdon and Frederick G. Williams as Counselors. At the Conference of High Priests held May 4, 1833, a committee was appointed to obtain subscriptions to erect a house to be used for a school, where the Elders were to receive instructions before going out to warn the world.
Persecution Arises
By the 1st of June, 1833, preparations for the building of the Kirtland Temple were under way, and the work of the Lord in the State of Ohio was progressing favorably. But trouble was brewing in Jackson County, Missouri. The Saints who had settled there had dreamed of a Zion as foretold in the Old Testament. They had begun to build homes and get located when they discovered that forces were at work that would make Jackson County, Missouri, an impossible place for them. In the spring of 1832 it was decreed that no Mormon should in the future move and settle in that county. The disappointment of the people must have been severe, for they had come into the land by the command of the Lord to receive their inheritance, and it was here that the new city of the great Jerusalem was to be built. What followed is a story of heartache and disappointment which only the blessings of the Lord could make endurable.
Blessings Multiply
In the midst of this hour of trial in Missouri, great blessings awaited the Saints in Kirtland, Ohio. They had completed the Temple, whose architectural stability and beauty is challenging the admiration of the world today. The house was ready for dedication, Brother Phelps had written his soul-stirring hymn, "The Spirit of God Like a Fire is Burning." Sidney Rigdon read two of the most beautiful psalms. The prayer of dedication, which was given by revelation, was presented, and the house was given to the Lord. Angels were present; the Holy Spirit, like the sound of a mighty wind, filled the house and rested upon the assembly. The date of this event was March 27, 1836. Seven days after, on Sunday, April 3, 1836, Joseph Smith and Oliver Cowdery retired to the pulpit in prayer, the veils being dropped. After rising from their knees the Savior appeared to them, standing on the breastwork of the pulpit and blessed them, accepting the building in his name. After the vision closed, the heavens were again opened and Moses, Elias and Elijah appeared. Moses committed to them the Key of the Gathering of Israel; Elias, the Keys of the Dispensation of Abraham; and Elijah, the Keys in Fulfilment of the prediction of Malachi, which concerned the turning of the hearts of the fathers to the children, and the hearts of the children to the fathers.
The Apostasy
Threatening and sinister were the clouds that hung over the Church at the beginning of the year 1838. Apostasy had broken into the ranks, and many faithful defenders of the truth had fallen by the wayside. So bitter became the spirit of opposition in Kirtland that Joseph Smith and Sidney Rigdon were forced to seek safety in flight. January 12, 1838, they journeyed toward Far West. The spirit of darkness spread from Kirtland to Missouri, and some of the leading brethren became affected. This is the time when the names of the three witnesses were dropped from the Church records. March 6, 1838, a meeting of all the Seventies of Kirtland was held to consider the moving of the Saints to Missouri. There was much discouragement on account of the poverty of the people; however while they were in this meeting the Spirit of the Lord rested upon them and it was made known that they were to journey as a body to Zion. In the meantime the Saints were subjected to much persecution in Missouri. The leaders of the Church were demanded for trial. Joseph Smith, Sidney Rigdon, Lyman White, Parley P. Pratt and George W. Robinson put themselves in the hands of the officers of the law in order to keep Far West from being sacked. An order was issued for the shooting of the Prophet signed by Samuel D. Lucas. A. W. Doniphan replied to this order by saying to his superior. "It is cold blooded murder; I will not obey your command." "My Brigade will march to Liberty tomorrow morning at 8 o'clock, and if you execute these men I will hold you responsible before an earthly tribunal, so help me God."
Escape from Prison
Governor Boggs wrote General Clark to hold a military court in Davies County. Clark spent some time searching the laws to find some authority on which the Prophet and others could be tried for treason. November 28, 1838, Joseph Smith and his fellow prisoners were taken to Liberty, and placed in Liberty Jail. Finally public sentiment became so enraged from the mistreatment of these brethren that those who held them prisoners concocted a plan for their release. They found their way into the State of Illinois. With all three members of the Presidency in prison, the burden of moving the Saints from Missouri was placed on the shoulders of Brigham Young. Then came the founding of Nauvoo, the city beautiful. Friday, May 10, 1839, President Joseph Smith took up his residence in a small log house on the banks of the Mississippi. The city had been known as Commerce, but it was soon changed to the City of Nauvoo, which was incorporated in December, 1840. The missionary work was extended, and arrangements were made to publish both the Book of Mormon and the Doctrine and Covenants in England. April 6, 1841, the 11th anniversary of the organization of the Church, the cornerstone of the Nauvoo Temple was laid. March 17th, 1842, the female Relief Society of Nauvoo was organized by the Prophet Joseph Smith. Emma Smith was chosen President with Elizabeth Ann Whitney and Sarah M. Cleveland as counselors. Threats of mob vengeance were again in the air, On Saturday, August 6, 1842, President Joseph Smith prophesied that the Saints would continue to suffer much affliction and would be driven to the Rocky Mountains.
The Martyrdom
May 25, 1844, Joseph Smith was indicted at Carthage; when they reached their destination Foster told Joseph Smith of the conspiracy against his life. The same spirit that had caused so much suffering in Missouri was rampant in Illinois. At a meeting of the City Council, held June 10th, after full consideration, the Expositor was declared a public nuisance and was ordered to be abated. Under martial law. In the general disturbance the prophet tried as an expedient, leaving Nauvoo, but some of his brethren accusing him of cowardice, urged him to return; a move which ended in both Joseph and Hyrum being taken to Carthage jail. Now the name of Governor Ford flashes into the limelight. On June 27th, at five in the morning, the prison was attacked by an armed mob. A shower of bullets was poured into the room, Hyrum fell, and the Prophet exclaimed, "O, Brother Hyrum." As Joseph sprang into the window, two balls pierced him from the door and one entered his right breast from without. He fell outward into the hands of his murderers, exclaiming, "O Lord! My God." The saints, with heads bowed with grief—for the greatest sorrow of all their history had come to them—wept and prayed. On June 28, 1844, the bodies of the martyred prophets were taken to Nauvoo by Willard Richards and Samuel H. Smith. On the morning of the 29th they were interred amidst the deep mourning of a stricken people. Then came the hour of transfiguration, often related to Relief Society officers by their beloved President Emmeline B. Wells, when Brigham Young was recognized as the leader of the people.
The Journey Westward
When February 4, 1846, the first of the Saints left Nauvoo and crossed the Mississippi River on the journey to the West, for it was evident that Nauvoo, like Kirtland and Far West, must be abandoned. The historic trek across the plains has given the Mormon Pioneers a unique place in history. The great organizing power of Brigham Young and others about him have made Utah a place sought for by students, and Salt Lake City is looked upon as the metropolis of this intermountain country, to which people have gathered for years for education, music and drama. Brigham Young is looked upon as a great and distinguished American and his leadership is admired and extolled by sociologists and community builders wherever his work is known.
The Prophet's Mother
Mrs. Ethel R. Smith, Member of General Board
Within the ranks of God's soldiery are none more brave, none more heroic, yea none who endure more of the heat and the brunt of the battle than do the courageous and loyal-hearted wives and mothers who remain at home to cope with the serious problems of life, and to bear the responsibilities of the family while the husband is engaged in the ministry. When we understand this, we fully appreciate the tenderness and sincerity of heart, the purity and nobility of soul, revealed in woman—"God's masterpiece of creation."—Ben E. Rich.
Mother of a Prophet
Pulsing through the pages of early church history are life stories of brave, heroic women who stood side by side with men and suffered with them for the sake of the Gospel. First and foremost was Lucy Smith, mother of the Prophet. Undoubtedly before she entered this life she was chosen for this great mission. Well was he mothered. She was a remarkable personage—a woman of great power and force of character, commanding in appearance, dignified and gracious in manner, and possessing a very keen intellect. Deeply spiritual, she was also, and capable, with a tender love of all humanity. It has been said of her that so great was her wisdom and her ability to express herself, so great was the light that shone from her glorious eyes, that it was considered a privilege to call upon her, that one felt when in her presence a sort of reverence. Called of God to be the mother of the man who restored to us the plan of eternal life, all honor is due her as a woman.
Her Home Life
Mother Smith, as she was endearingly called, was born of very worthy parents; and her early training prepared her for her mission. At the age of 20 she married Joseph Smith, a noble man whom she dearly loved and respected throughout her life. It was asked of one who knew her if she ever dominated her husband; the answer was, "Lucy never wanted to." At first she and her husband were comfortable, then adversity set in and they were obliged to move from place to place. Undoubtedly the hand of the Lord was in their reverses, for it brought them near the Hill Cumorah where the sacred records were concealed. Seven sons and three daughters were born to them. In all their experiences, whether of affluence or poverty, Lucy was willing and capable in every emergency. During this period the question of religion was the theme of discussion in the family. Occasionally, by manifestation or dream, the Lord prepared them for the great work of their son; and from the very first they accepted his divine calling, manifested intense interest, ably encouraging him to go forth and do the work of the Lord.
Her Mission
She recognized in her son an unusual personality; but during his early life nothing of particular note occurred to indicate the greatness of the mission to which he was to be called. After Joseph received his vision, she knew that she was the mother of a prophet, and from that time her history is closely identified with that of her son. Guarding carefully every effort Joseph made to preserve the record, and suffering with him the persecutions of the unfriendly and the wicked, she was always willing to sacrifice all in the service of the Lord. When forced from the home which Alvin had labored so hard to build, she said to Oliver Cowdery: "All this I give up for the sake of Christ and salvation; and I pray God to help me do so without a murmur or a tear. In the strength of God, I say that from this time forth I will not cast one longing look upon anything which I now leave behind me."
Her Joy
When the first pages of the manuscript were prepared and were given to Lucy for safe keeping, her joy knew no bounds. All night she meditated on the toil and anxiety they for several years had passed through in order to obtain this treasure—a treasure that she knew would bring no earthly wealth or advantage, but a treasure that would fill all who hungered after righteousness. When the record was published, she rejoiced, thinking that all their troubles would be over. On one occasion Deacon Beckwith asked her not to say anything more of her "gold Bible." She answered: "Deacon Beckwith, if you should stick my flesh full of fagots, and even burn me at the stake, I would declare as long as God should give me breath that Joseph has that record and that I know it is true."
Her Personality
She was a dominant figure in any assemblage, and a great asset to the cause. Severe persecutions following in the wake of the organization produced a great deal of suffering and proved her ready ability to serve her fellowmen. The soul of hospitality and generosity, with her noble husband she ministered to the wants of the sick and the needy, her door being always open alike to rich or poor, sick or well. Her leadership was evidenced under very trying circumstances when she led a band of 80 people to Kirtland, exercising great forbearance and patience, at times commanding and at times persuasive, but humble and always seeking the guidance of the Spirit. Mother Smith was a very prayerful woman. Many times when sickness had entered her home through her prayers her children were healed. On the occasion that Joseph and Hyrum were stricken with cholera and it seemed that they must die, Hyrum received a vision in which he saw his mother praying in tears for her sons. Of this testimony he told Joseph. "O my mother!" said Joseph, "how often have your prayers been the means of assisting us even when the shadows of death encompassed."
Her Vision
She possessed the gift of vision and prophecy. At one time, when greatly worried over Hyrum and Joseph, she was overjoyed to see them traveling homeward. When they arrived, they confirmed in every detail what she related she had seen in vision. She was a fearless woman, passing calmly through scenes that would make the bravest heart quake. When a mob rode up to her door, demanding to know where Joseph was, she asked them what they wanted of him. "We were sent to kill the Prophet and all who believe in him," said the leader. "I suppose," said Lucy, "you intend to kill me, with the rest?" "Yes we do," said the officer. "Very well," Lucy continued, "I want you to act the gentlemen about it, and do the job quickly. Just shoot me down at once, then I shall be at rest."
Her Faith
Often when her husband had been torn from his home and family and imprisoned, Lucy manifested each time a calm assurance that he would return again and all would be well. On the occasion of the last arrest of Joseph and Hyrum in Missouri, when they were condemned to be shot by the mob-militia, she and her husband heard distinctly the horrid yelling of the mob. Thinking the mob had done its work the father cried out in anguish, "They have killed my son; and I must die, for I cannot live without him." The mother had no words of consolation to offer; for her heart was also broken. But Joseph and Hyrum had not yet been killed; their time had not come. It was decided that they should be taken to Liberty and imprisoned. At their departure, the heart-broken mother passed through the crowds to the wagon containing her sons, and grasped Joseph's hand which was thrust between the cover and the wagon; but he was not permitted to speak. Lucy said, "Joseph, do speak to your poor mother once more. I cannot bear to go until I hear your voice." At this he sobbed out, disobeying the orders of the mobbers, "God bless you, Mother."
Her Fortitude
Sorrow filled the mother's heart, but she found consolation that surpassed all earthly comfort. "I was filled with the Spirit of the Lord," she said. Shortly afterward she was bereft of her husband, but her grief was partly softened because of her efforts to succor those who suffered through the Missouri persecutions. A year or so later, worn out by persecutions and cares, she became very sick, nigh unto death. She was slowly recovering, only again to suffer overwhelming grief when her two sons were assassinated. After the bodies were prepared for burial, she was permitted to see them. She tells us she had to brace every nerve, rouse every energy of her soul, and call upon God to strengthen her that she might look upon them; but when she entered the room and saw her murdered sons before her and heard the sobs and groans of her family, she sank back crying, "My God, my God, why hast thou forsaken this family?"
Her Sons Taken
A voice answered, "I have taken them to myself that they might have rest." She then says, "I was swallowed up in the depths of my afflictions; and though my soul was filled with horror past imagination, yet I was dumb until I arose again to contemplate the spectacle before me. Oh! At that moment how my mind flew through every scene of sorrow and distress which we had passed together, in which they had shown the innocence and sympathy which filled their guileless hearts. As I looked upon their peaceful smiling countenances, I seemed almost to hear them say, "Mother, weep not for us, we have overcome the world by love. We carried to them the Gospel that their souls might be saved; they slew us for our testimony, and thus placed us beyond their power; their ascendency is but for a moment; ours is an eternal triumph."
Her Last Years
After all this, Lucy continued to bear her testimony with great fervor, saying, "If I could make my voice as loud as the trumpet of Michael the Archangel, I would declare the truth from land to land, and from sea to sea; and the echo should reach every isle, until every member of the family of Adam should be left without excuse. For I do testify that God has revealed himself to man again in these last days. Lucy lived about ten years longer. She appeared at conference and meetings upholding the Twelve Apostles. She once expressed the desire to come west but never did so. She also said that if she did, she wanted her bones brought back to lie with those she had loved so dearly. Could any woman who loved her children so tenderly, have stood all this if she had not known the mission of Joseph to be divine? Mothers, can any wealth under heaven or any glory on earth, compensate for the loss of six glorious sons? Also husband, grandchildren, and dearly loved friends, whose lives have been sacrificed on the altar of divine truth?
A Testimony
No; and this is my testimony to you; I have known the love and tenderness of the Smiths for their wives and their children. You who were acquainted with our late President Joseph F. Smith knew how greatly he possessed these qualities; and in the hearts of Joseph and Hyrum dwelt the same holy feelings. Knowing this can you believe that they would have permitted this good mother whom they loved so dearly and their wives, their children, to suffer such persecutions and finally to be themselves "led like lambs to the slaughter," had they not know their mission to be divine? All that Joseph had to do was to say he had falsified. But Joseph had seen God, and he knew that God knew it; and I know that God lives, and that Lucy was the Mother of a Prophet. Well might we say with Joseph, "Blessed art thou, my mother; and thou shalt receive eternal life."
Women in Ohio
Mrs. Inez K. Allen, Member of General Board
To appreciate fully the contribution of the women of Kirtland to the century, we should know something of conditions at that time.
Former Status of Woman
The law was copied from the English common law, which described husband and wife as one individual, and certainly the husband was the one. "He might not deed property to her if he chose to do so because the law said that would be like deeding it to himself." The wife could not handle any property. If she had anything it became her husband's at the altar. She might not sue to collect wages she had earned, but her husband could; she could not collect for damages to character or person, but the husband could. He might dispose of their children without her consent even before birth.
Prayer of a Woman
No doubt the authors of the law meant to protect women when they made it read: "She shall not be beaten with a stick larger than a man's thumb." The beginning of the Church in Kirtland came in answer to the prayer of a woman and a man who prayed jointly to know the truth even as the Prophet prayed for wisdom. The prayer of Brother Whitney and his wife Elizabeth Ann Whitney was answered by a manifestation shown to them both, in which they were promised messengers bearing the gospel message. A few days later the Prophet and his wife Emma presented themselves to Brother and Sister Whitney, having traveled many miles through snow and cold in a cutter. After telling who they were, they said, "We have come in answer to your prayers." Elizabeth Ann Whitney and her husband accepted the gospel, made a home for the Prophet, and soon many were baptized.
Woman's Part in Progress
Kirtland became a gathering place, the women, home builders and home keepers, were also Temple builders. They made clothes and boarded the men who built the Temple. They did the first work inside the Temple, decorating and making curtains, and contributed spiritual support, showing fruits of the Spirit by singing, speaking in tongues, and bearing testimony to healings and manifestations. The women contributed to the educational atmosphere. Eliza R. Snow was well educated and highly gifted in spite of educational discrimination against women at that time. My grandparents, Lydia and Newel Knight, were the first couple married by the Prophet Joseph. The ceremony took place at the home of the Patriarch Hyrum Smith, who gave Lydia, my grandmother, a blessing that she should endure hardship but that her children should be spared. This blessing was fulfilled; she reared to maturity, seven children notwithstanding that while camping on the Indian reservation at Niabrara, she bade her last farewell to their father and her companion. Lydia G. Knight and Newel were among the group that volunteered to start the migration westward in 1846, but because of prairie fires were obliged to turn northward. While performing the sad rite of burying Newel Knight in a coffin made from his wagon box, the men froze their fingers and toes. One baby was born after Newel's death.
Six Generations
In the lineage of that first marriage we have, in our Stake, Bishop Mark Kartchener, who is the father of six sons and one daughter. Of these six, four have already filled honorable missions. Our enemies have said that in two or three generations Mormonism would pass away, and that education would destroy the fourth. Now, the four sons referred to are all college men; one will take his Doctor's degree in science at Stanford this year; another will take his degree next year from Ames; and the others are following the same lines as they come to the proper age. The girls are preparing for missions. One son has children blessed, making the seventh generation of record in the Church. If we would honor the noble women of Kirtland, let us follow their example in simple honesty, loyal citizenship, unfailing kindness, uncomplaining courage, sacred motherhood, and implicit faith.
MRS. AUGUSTA W. GRANT
With all the wonderful messages that we have heard this morning, I feel that I can only say in humility that I very much appreciate the privilege of standing here before this wonderful body of women. We have heard of women who have preceded us; I can say that the women in action here today are their equals. I feel sure of this from what I have seen of their work and from the acquaintance I have had with them in their homes and in mission fields. My message to you is to be faithful. Is there anyone here, could there be anyone, whose faith has not been strengthened by the wonderful and beautiful words we have heard? May the blessing of the Lord be upon everyone who is engaged in this work, and who has a knowledge and a testimony of the truths that have been given to us by the revealed gospel, and the light that has come to us through our Father in Heaven and through his Son Jesus Christ. May we be strengthened, and helped, to go forward, performing our duties in humility and faith.
Women in Missouri
Mrs. Lotta Paul Baxter, Member General Board
I am thinking of the women of Missouri, of their trials and persecutions, and the things they endured for the gospel's sake; also of the fortitude and courage with which those trials were endured, and the encouragement given to the men, which made it possible to carry on. We owe much to those women; they helped to make possible our being here on this memorable day and this glorious occasion. I shall mention two or three women whose deeds are typical of all.
Reason for Prejudice
The people in Missouri were not ready to hear Jehovah's word; they did not understand that we were a desirable people, who would make of Missouri a beautiful dwelling place; and so the hatred of Satan caused them to persecute and drive us from our heritage. In the 57th section of the Doctrine and Covenants, verses 1-5, the Lord said: "Hearken, O ye elders of my church, saith the Lord your God, who have assembled yourselves together, according to my commandments, in this land, which is the land of Missouri, which is the land which I have appointed and consecrated for the gathering of the saints. "Wherefore, this is the land of promise, and the place for the city of Zion. "And thus saith the Lord your God, if you will receive wisdom there is wisdom. Behold, the place which is now called Independence is the center place; and a spot for the temple is lying westward, upon a lot which is not far from the courthouse." "Wherefore it is wisdom that the land should be purchased by the saints, and also every tract lying westward, even unto the line running directly between Jew and Gentile;" "And also every tract bordering by the prairies, inasmuch as my disciples are enabled to buy lands. Behold, this is wisdom, and they may obtain it for an everlasting inheritance." The word of Jehovah was the thorn in the flesh of the Missourians. They did not know that we had come there to build up a beautiful Zion; they thought we had come there to rob them of their little farms.
Work of Misguided Men
One of the first cruelties was the edict of a mob of 500, that the printing press which published the "Morning and Evening Star" should be destroyed. This press was located at the home of William W. Phelps; both the press and the home were utterly demolished. Sister Phelps, with a sick infant in her arms ran, with her little ones following her, to the shelter of nearby bushes. Peering through an opening in the bushes she saw their home leveled to the ground. The mob then took Bishop Edward Partridge and Charles Allen, and covered their bodies with tar and feathers, in which was mixed a burning acid that burned into their flesh. This cruel indignity and abuse these men bore with such fortitude that a profound silence fell upon the boisterous mob—a silence broken by the voice of a woman crying aloud: "While you who have done this wicked thing must suffer the vengeance of God, they having endured persecution can rejoice, for henceforth for them is laid up a crown eternal in the heavens." Think of the voice of a lone woman crying out to an angry mob of 500 men. Reziah Higbee was driven from her home, and while lying upon the banks of the river in a downpour of rain gave birth to a son. Women entered miserable prisons, and remained there to comfort the men who were imprisoned for no reason whatever.
Haun's Mill
We know the blot upon the history of Missouri from the Massacre at Haun's Mill. Nineteen men and boys were killed on the beautiful Fall day, and their bodies dumped into a well just to cover them from the angry militia and men who had committed the outrage. Fifteen others were wounded. The women came out from their hiding places, to find their husbands and sons mutilated and dead. They helped to bury them; then sang songs of rejoicing that they still had the gospel left to them. The wife of Morris W. Phelps and her brother rode 160 miles on horseback, to the town where her husband and Parley P. Pratt were imprisoned. She took lodging with the jailor's wife, as was customary in those days. She paid for her board for two weeks in advance and to all appearance she was going to remain for some time; but they did not understand the feelings of a woman whose husband was in prison. They made their plans, and that night, when their supper was handed in Elders Pratt and Phelps made their escape upon horses her brother had concealed. The woman who was instrumental in assisting the men escape sat there calmly, looking mobbers in the eye, and they rode off without molesting her.
Records of History
Mary Smith, the young wife of the patriarch, was prostrated with grief as she saw her husband dragged away. Gathering the motherless children of Jerusha, his first wife, around her, she tried to comfort them. Eleven days later she gave birth to her illustrious son, Joseph Fielding Smith, who became prophet and patriarch of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. Crosby Jackson, writing the history of Caldwell County, says: "If that strange people who built Nauvoo and Salt Lake City, who uncomplainingly toiled across the American desert and made the wilderness of Utah to bloom like a garden; if they had been permitted to remain and perfect the work which they had begun here, how different would have been the history of Far West. Instead of being a farm with scarcely sufficient ruins to mark the spot where once it stood, there would have been a rich populous city, along the streets of which would be pouring the wealth of the world; and instead of an old dilapidated farmhouse, there would have been magnificent temples, to which the devout saints from the farther corners of the world would have made their yearly pilgrimage."
The Real Reason
The historian spoils all this by saying: "But the bigotry and intolerance of the saints towards the Gentiles, and especially against dissenters from the revelations of Joe Smith, rendered such a consummation impossible." It wasn't the bigotry or intolerance of the Saints; it was Satan, determined that the revelation designating that Jackson County, the center stake of Zion, should not be fulfilled. It was that which for a time drove the people from Missouri. Not far from Far West (about 30 miles) is historic Adam-ondi-ahman, where our father Adam, calling the patriarchs Seth, Enos, Jared, Enoch, and Methuselah, gave them his last earthly blessing. Such were the scenes of the past enacted in the sacred valley, and greater ones are to be enacted when God's people return to build up Zion. B. H. Roberts, in his "Persecutions of Missouri" asks: "Is it to be wondered that Satan contended with the saints for possession of this holy ground, where the Kingdom of God shall be established in power, never more to be destroyed?" To Jackson County, we shall return. To this beautiful place, our children and our children's children shall return, and build up the center stake of Zion. Then the people of Missouri and the world shall know what a desirable people we are.
Women in Illinois
Mrs. Julia A. F. Lund, General Secretary
Let you sympathize with me, I fully believe, knowing well that it is very difficult to be a substitute. You were promised something very excellent, and you should have it; for I know of no subject that surpasses the topic, "The Women of Illinois." Yet there is one thing that as Relief Society women, we know—we respond to the calls that are made of us, with the assurance that when we earnestly seek the Spirit to direct we cannot wholly fail; and I am depending upon your sympathy and the Spirit of our Father to help me in the things that I may say.
Deeds of Our Ancestors
On this memorable occasion we have listened to an outline of the history and organization of our Church—the most sacred, the most important subject in all the world to us, transcending in value and importance, anything of a material nature. The mother organization of the Church is seeking to express, as best it can, the interpretation we have of woman's contribution to the development of the Church. We know, from the beautiful story that was told us this morning, of the life of the mother of our Prophet, Lucy Mack Smith. We have traced the development of the women of our Church from New York and Pennsylvania, through Ohio, and Missouri; and now we have reached what we may perhaps call the climax in this first period of our Church history. It is a remarkable story; and we whose grandparents played a part in that development may feel the glow of pride that comes to us from the noble deeds of our ancestors, as we look upon that past with reverent devotion, and profound thankfulness that we have the heritage of such a past. It was the last great period of preparation—the culmination of organization that had begun 12 years previously. During this time there had been a constant development in the power and achievement of the Prophet. Year by year he had increased in power and in understanding, walking, as he did, and talking with God.
Why Joseph Could Lead
Is it any wonder, that he was able to inspire the people to do the mighty deeds they did? We bow with pride to the achievements of the men of that age; but we know that, standing side by side, enduring every test of faith, sympathizing with every defeat, glorifying every success, was a woman. We know that the person who said, "If you would know the political or the moral status of a people, you must know their women, for woman's influence comprehends the whole of human life." In those years, when the work was nearing completion, we know that the women nobly bore their part. I have the feeling that there was not a woman who failed in the duty that was asked of her; but we must pause for a moment and view with appreciation the marvelous woman who was the helpmate and the companion of the Prophet Joseph in all his labors. He had an excellent mother, who nurtured and prepared him for the great work. We also know that his wife stood by his side, that she shared his responsibilities, that she responded nobly to whatever was asked of her; and we have the feeling that in the eternal world, when the trials of this mortal state shall be taken into account, and when we shall see with clear vision, we shall behold her going on through eternity, while we revere her as our first president of the Relief Society—Emma Hale Smith.
Women and Civilization
Other wonderful women carried on the work while crossing the plains; but that is not my subject. Coming into the valleys of the mountains, they laid the basis of the splendid civilization that has since arisen. How thoroughly they did their work the fruits of their labors demonstrate; and I never think of the women and the men of those days that I do not long to apply to them the test that was proclaimed by Gamaliel of old. When Peter and John were being persecuted for teaching the resurrection of the Master, Gamaliel arose in his place, and said to the members of the Sanhedrin, "Refrain from persecuting these men, for if this be the work of men, it will come to naught: But if it be of God, ye cannot overthrow it." "Cease your persecution lest ye be found even to fight against God."
Then and Now
Go back one hundred years; see the men and women who organized the little group of the Church; then look about us today—consider this magnificent congregation, with all the other groups of our people. We ask ourselves, was it the work of men who gave the people strength to surmount obstacles, and carry on this marvelous work, the fruits of which we see around us? Or was it the work of God? "By their fruits ye shall know them;" and by the fruits of the labors of the women of Illinois, we know them. From that original group of 19, we now number today almost 63,000 women, all earnest in their endeavors to uplift mankind.
When Women Organize
"If the time ever comes," says Matthew Arnold, "that women are organized for the sole purpose of human uplift, it will be a force for good such as this world has never known." We can see in this magnificent organization of women, directed as it was at its inception by a prophet of the living God, that it is an organization of women for the sole purpose of human uplift; it was that in the beginning, and that ideal it has never ceased to cherish. Twofold in its program, it has made the finest social development that has since been possible, and has lifted high the light of hope to women the world over. Always it has guided them to enlightenment, faith, and hope. This period was the last in the history of our people before they began what is called "the great epic of American history," that great march to the West. When the people perfected the organization that knit them together with strength and power it led them over the Rocky Mountains, into the valleys of the West. In Illinois our people measured their strength, making final preparation for the work that was before them. When the pages of human history are written, will there be anything portrayed finer than the contribution made by the women of Illinois?
Tribute to Women
The women of Illinois! What a wealth of memory and of pride is inspired by that subject! We could search the records of civilization, and we could not again duplicate, in the story of achievement, what was accomplished in the six brief years of the history of Nauvoo, and in the lives of our people there. Accustomed as we are today, to view the mighty works and great accomplishments of our people, inspired as they were by the Spirit of our Father, yet even with this, we marvel at what the women of the earlier day accomplished in their time.
Women on the Plains
Mrs. Amy W. Evans Member of General Board
"Lo, a mighty host of Jacob
Tented on the western shore,
Of the noble Mississippi
They had crossed to cross no more.
At the last day-dawn of winter,
Bound with frost and wrapped in snow,
Hark! The cry is 'Onward, onward!
Camp of Israel rise and go.'"
This cry of Eliza R. Snow expressed the spirit of the women of the Church as the great body of Saints camped on the river's edge preparatory to the long, hazardous journey to their refuge in the Rocky Mountains. Who can tell the whole story?—the story of hardship and suffering, courage and endurance of these heroines of the plains, who gave all—father, mother, husband, child, even life itself—that the great movement to the land of Zion might go forward.
Stopping Places
As the Saints started across Iowa, it was decided to make stopping places where those who were not fully equipped with the necessary wagons, cattle, seed and provisions (enough to last a year), might have time to accumulate them. The first stop was at Garden Grove, named because of the beautiful trees there, and the vast gardens of wild onions in bloom among them. Next was Mt. Pisgah, so called by Parley P. Pratt, on account of the beauty of the round, sloping hills and the parks of large trees. Winter Quarters and Kanesville were still farther west. At all these places there was great suffering from illness, lack of food and shelter, yet the women, who were perhaps the greater sufferers, tried to live above their trials. The fact that they were suffering because of their religious convictions brought comfort and peace. Eliza R. Snow again expressed their feelings: "Although in woods and tents we dwell, Shout! Shout, O camp of Israel. No Christian mobs on earth can bind Our thoughts or steal our peace of mind."
Culture in Camps
When it was found that these stopping places would be occupied for some time as they started west, schools were established, land fenced, crops planted, and houses built. The women kept alive the spirit of home, and the niceties of life. Social standards were not forgotten. At Mt. Pisgah, Lorenzo Snow's wife draped the walls of her rude log cabin with white sheets (carefully preserved), hollowed out turnips which she tacked to the walls, and used as candle holders, sprinkled fresh straw upon the dirt floor, and received her guests with great dignity. After an evening of refined entertainment she served refreshments consisting of succotash, At first sickness and death were so prevalent that there were scarcely enough well to bury the dead. At this time a young couple and their children stopped to get together more supplies. He planted a garden and hurried to build a log cabin, for they were expecting another child very soon. He became ill, but would not give up until the roof was on his house. Even then he went out to plant more seed, for they were determined to start the journey west next spring. He fell in the field and was carried to his cabin, terribly ill with fever. His young wife got up from her bed with her new born child, and watched him die. Her children were ill too, except five year old Susan. The widow begged that her husband be buried in a coffin, so many being just wrapped in a blanket. Kind neighbors secured a wagon box, from which a rude coffin was made, and little Susan followed her father to the grave, the only one of the family able to do so.
Examples of Heroism
By and by the young mother regained her strength. As soon as she was able, she took Susan by the hand and together they wandered over the hillside, day after day searching for her husband's grave; but it was never found. There was no mark, and the child had forgotten. She did not despair, but gathered her crops, picked and dried berries and nuts from the forest, dried squash and corn, and stored them up for the long journey. The children picked wool off the brush left there by sheep that had passed through. Out of this she spun and wove and knitted until there was clothing enough. Finally she was ready. She and her children started out. Little Susan took her brother's hand, and together they walked the entire way across the plains. In the same company there was a cultured gentleman, too weak to walk, so his beautiful young wife gave up the wagon to him, walking by its side, comforting and caring for him as best she could. When a buffalo was killed, she would exchange her share of the meat for a few crackers, a little fruit, or some dainty that her sick husband could eat. Her little daughter became ill and died. Wrapped in a shawl, the little one was buried by the roadside. To add to the anguish of the mother, she could see the wolves watching from a distance. She knew what would happen when they went on, for she had noticed many an emptied grave as they had come along.
Incidents of the Journey
Yet life was not all sorrow. In the evenings there were songs, dancing and games; and many a joke was cracked at their own expense. The strictest order was observed; camps were kept clean. President Young was very strict on the matter of sanitation. The women of course did their full share in this work, and it was because of their presence that cleanliness, order, and the niceties of life were observed. The women did a great deal in helping to keep up the morale and courage of the companies. No traveling was done on Sundays. Religious services were held, and "Come, Come Ye Saints, no toil nor labor fear, but with joy wend your way" floated over the vast lonesome plains. Sometimes circumstances demanded a sternness of woman foreign to her nature. This was the case with an English widow who, with her two sons, ages 14 and 16, were making their way across the plains in the handcart company. One day her eldest boy lay down by their cart, and said that he could go no farther. It was at this stage of the journey a common occurrence for someone, weakened from lack of food and worn out by toil, to give up and die.
A Mother's Strength
A group gathered around, and the mother came up. There lay her son, her main reliance; and he had given up. In this crisis, she sensed that extreme measures must be used. "Get up," she commanded, "I did not bring you here to die on the plains; you are going to Zion." Then she gave him a stinging slap in the face. He was 16, and to be slapped by his mother in public made his blood boil. He needed no other stimulant. He jumped to his feet and pushed the cart along vigorously. For three days his anger kept him going. When a white-haired man, he maintained that this stern act of his mother saved his life. If she had weakened, he never could have gone on. They slept on the frozen ground, waded through the snow, and nearly starved before they reached their destination; but his mother's spirit and courage never wavered.
Parting With Sons and Husbands
One of the greatest trials of the women on the plains was parting from their sons and husbands who enlisted in the Mormon Battalion. Although they cheered them with honor, many a woman was brokenhearted, and for some it was farewell forever. Alice Morrill's description of the pioneer mother fits these women: "Behold her busy at her task, no thought to turn aside nor shirk, Her faith but dignifies her toil, her hope but sanctifies her work. No thought to falter by the way; nor wish to rest from weary toil: A selfless life—no weak reproach nor plaint of cares and ceaseless moil."
The Pioneer Woman
While the women on the plains carried with them the spirit of home, they also carried what they could of the culture of the race. In a barrel of beans, or a bag of wheat, in fact in any available place, they tucked away precious books, a bit of rare china, a piece of real lace, some fine clothes, so that in the far-away new home things of beauty and culture should not be forgotten. The first school teacher, when they arrived at their destination, was a woman. At the World's Fair, at San Francisco, there was a statue in honor of the pioneer woman; on the pedestal was the following inscription: "Over rude paths beset with hunger and risk, she pressed on toward the vision of a better country; to an assemblage of men busied with the perishable rewards of the day she brought the threefold leaven of enduring society—faith, gentleness, and home, with the nurture of children." These three things, our pioneer women, as they toiled across the plains, contributed to the Church and to society. Without the courage, endurance, and sacrifices of these women, this commonwealth in the Rocky Mountains could not have been established. One of our own women speaks thus of the pioneer woman: "The damp earth floor whereon she ate a shrine of worship comes to be; Her plain, hard fare becomes to her a sacrament of sanctity. A priestess she—and prophetess of far-off future glorious years, When bloom of beauty shall unfold at last, deep watered by her tears."
Women in the West
Mrs. Annie Wells Cannon, Member of General Board
We read in the Book of Isaiah: "The wilderness, and the solitary place, shall be glad for them; and the desert shall rejoice, and blossom as the rose. "It shall blossom abundantly, and rejoice even with joy and singing: the glory of Lebanon shall be given unto it, the excellency of Carmel and Sharon; they shall see the glory of the Lord, and the excellency of our God. For in the wilderness shall waters break out, and streams in the desert. And the parched ground shall become a pool, and the thirsty land springs of water. "And an highway shall be there, and a way, and it shall be called, The way of holiness." Today we have been looking back into other years, and in pictured words have seen forms and faces of the past; in retrospection we have lived again the scenes of long ago. I would ask you now to look back one hundred years, and view this desert land, barren and desolate it lay in its great silence, no sound but the chirp of the cricket or the rattle of the deadly snake as he wound his way through the purple sage. So for ages it had lain, waiting the advent of some master hand to turn the sun-baked soil and moisten its dry parched surface with a cooling drink. It was on a hot afternoon in late July, when through the gateways of the eastern hills, came a train of covered wagons bearing a group of refugees. As they halted on the hillside they looked down upon this waiting valley. The great pioneer leader looked and pronounced the ever memorable words, "This is the place." There were in that train three women—Clara Decker Young, Ellen Saunders Kimball and Harriet Decker Young. We know not what they thought as they looked over the desert to the shimmering lake beyond, but this we know, they came with their husbands down into the valley to begin to make a home. They knew too, that following in the trail this first company of exiles had made, were thousands of driven refugees, to whom almost any place to end the weary journey and begin anew was welcome. For: "Long was the journey o'er the trackless way, Rivers to ford and mountain steeps to climb. Nor pen nor painter can the scene portray, A monument it stands throughout all time." Long trains of covered wagons followed bringing women from the rocky shores of New England, from the hills, and dales of Ohio, from the prairies of Missouri, from the plains of Illinois; women from the southern states, and from far across the sea; from England, and Scotland's highland clans, from Wales, the Isle of Man, and Ireland; from the fertile Netherlands; from Scandinavia and the Northland, land of the midnight sun; from the Rhineland, and the snowy Alps; dark-eyed women from the southland, from sunny France; still and still they come, dusky women from the South Seas all gather to this mountain land, here to build a nation. Another devout and faithful train followed the covered wagons. Hundreds walked across the plains, pushing heavily laden handcarts. The plan was crude and the hardships many, and even now it is always through a mist of tears we recall that journey. Many perished by the wayside, but those who made the valley became valiant workers in the building of the West. It may seem out of place to mention names when there are none among these wonderful women who came in the pioneer days but were heroines in very deed, yet: "In God's blue realms of space Sometimes a single star Sends forth its brilliant glow To other realms afar." So always there must be leaders around whom cluster others to help and reflect each endeavor. Pioneer life at best has its hardships, and this people driven into the wilderness had of necessity to be self-supporting. The women helped with their own hands to mould the adobe or put in place the rough sawn log that gave them shelter, planted gardens, fought with all their might the crickets and other pests that came to molest them; moulded candles, boiled soap; carded, spun and wove the wool and cotton into linsey cloth to clothe themselves and little ones. These tasks were some of the stepping stones along the way to better things. Home industry became second nature, and later, when organized into the Relief Society, under the leadership of Eliza R. Snow, there were many activities introduced marking an onward progress along the way.
Nursing and Midwifery
One of the first necessities was a school for nurses and midwives, for all this time women were having their families and needed proper care. Many good women engaged in this work, and the Lord blessed their ministrations among the sick, for few lives were lost. With the increase in population, and extending the colonization, it became necessary to train more women for this purpose, and Romania B. Pratt (Penrose) was sent to an Eastern college to study medicine, especially midwifery and obstetrics. Others followed, and hundreds of domestic nurses were trained and went out in the different communities to wait upon the sick. The Deseret Hospital was established and supported by the Relief Society for the furtherance of this cause.
Silk Industry
As home industry was a part of everyday life, the call to plant mulberry trees and engage in sericulture was readily responded to by the women, and with such success that Utah silk was pronounced by experts as fine of texture and quality as that raised in France or China. Zina D. H. Young was the great leader in this movement.
Woman's Store
For the encouragement of women in fine needlework and domestic arts, a woman's store and exchange was established, where also temple clothing was made and sold and cared for, and an employment office for women was conducted. Heading this movement was Mary Isabella Horne, a wise and efficient pioneer mother.
Suffrage
Advancement and progress along the way marks every step, and Utah women were enfranchised by legislative enactment, and exercised the suffrage in the early making of the state. The leading women met in small groups and studied political science and parliamentary law, thus fitting themselves for the honors of high office or legislative work when such time might come. Most prominent in this suffrage work stand foremost the names of Sarah M. Kimball, Emmeline B. Wells, Emily S. Richards, Electa Bullock and Julia P. M. Farnsworth.
The Exponent and Magazines
Women engaged in so many activities felt the need of an organ to further their work. Under the fine leadership of Eliza R. Snow and her associates, a paper named The Woman's Exponent was established. Louisa Green (Richards) was called to be the editor of this little paper, the first woman's paper in the intermountain country. Mrs. Richards withdrew after two years service, and for forty years this magazine was published and edited by Emmeline B. Wells. Within its bound volumes are priceless histories of the women of the Church, of the West, and of the world. Its columns were used to encourage literary talent among the Latter-day Saint women, and among its contributors one reads familiar names of those who have achieved much in poetry and in prose. After the organization of the Young Ladies' Mutual Improvement Association, they too, needed a magazine, and the Young Woman's Journal was established and edited by Mrs. Susa Young Gates. This was followed by the Children's Friend, the publication of the Primary Association, under the direction of Mrs. Louie B. Felt and Miss May Anderson.
Wheat
The great leader, Brigham Young, called upon the women to glean, gather and store grain, and placed at the head of this unique movement Emmeline B. Wells. To women who had fought the crickets and grasshoppers, who had lived on sego and thistle roots, the word conservation was not new, neither did they question the authority that bade them store grain against a day of famine. The Relief Society carried on this work for many years; granaries were built and thousands of bushels of wheat were stored. Practically all the women of the Church had a part in this undertaking, especially Relief Society ward presidents. When the World War came, and the wheat was needed and called for, you were ready to hand it over to the government to feed the army and the hungry. The golden kernels were not lost to us, but value received from the government, the interest of which you now may use in promoting health programs for the encouragement of motherhood and the relief of the afflicted.
Education
Within the walls of the Old Fort, in Pioneer Square, Mary Jane Dilworth (Hammond), taught the first school. A tent for covering, half sawn logs for benches, no books, no charts, no maps: from the tent to the log cabin, from the cabin to the little red school house famous in song and story, and now the most convenient, finely equipped elementary and high schools, colleges, seminaries, universities and libraries, with marble halls and classic columns where you may glean from rare books and works of art and science all the knowledge of the world. What a heritage is ours as we mark these stepping stones along the way. Truly has the wilderness blossomed for us, and in the desert are springs of living water. The Latter-day Saint women have walked along this great highway of faith and holiness, have drunk at the fountain of industry, devotion and charity. We may not yet have reached the heights our fathers and mothers idealized, but the way lies clear before us, and: "Today majestic as a queen you stand, The culture of the ages in your hand, The courage of the pioneers upon you rests, The strength of motherhood within your breasts; These all adorn you like a jewelled crest, Fairest of God's daughters, Glorious woman of the West."
The Children of Others
Miss May Anderson, President of the Primary Association
Like a little child who has listened to a marvelous story I feel today. Those of you who have tried to tell stories to children, know you have been successful if when the end comes you hear a great sigh. A good story gives you that feeling, but it has another wonderful virtue. You have listened to marvelous things; now what are you going to do? As a representative of the children's organization of the Church, I am happy to say that we have now, at the end of one hundred years, the possibilities of marvelous growth. We have heard today of the beginning, of steps on the way. As each page has unfolded, we have marveled. What will be the story at the end of another period? About 14,000 women in the Church today are voluntarily giving their time to tell the boys and girls these marvelous stories, helping them to understand what the gospel is, what it asks, what it demands—14,000 women who are leading more than 100,000 boys and girls, all learning this kind of lesson. The Lord has blest us in listening to the marvelous story given to us in these two meetings; and now we can say this is the story of the past, of the present, and, please God, it shall not dim in the days to come.
Woman's Contribution to the Church
President Heber J. Grant
Without the wonderful work of the women I realize that the Church would have been a failure. The mother in the family far more than the father, is the one who instills into the hearts of the children, a testimony and a love for the Gospel of Jesus Christ. Our fathers and mothers came here in early days for the one and only thing—to serve the Lord, and to labor for the salvation of humanity; and wherever you find a woman who is devoted to this work, almost without exception you will find that her children are devoted to it.
What We Owe to Mothers
She shapes their lives more than the father, because he is away much more; his associations in the world take him away from the family circle; so that to our mothers we owe everything. I, of course, owe everything to my mother, because my father died when I was only nine days of age; and the marvelous teachings, the faith, the integrity of my mother have been an inspiration to me. It fell to my lot to spend many hours, as a child, in the society of Eliza R. Snow. In her room in the Lion House I have spent hours listening to her relate her experiences with the Prophet Joseph; and more from her than from any other woman, except only my own mother, I gained inspiration. It has been my lot to be associated with her and with all the leaders of the Relief Society work, my mother being president for some thirty odd years of the 13th Ward Society. She had to resign eventually because of an almost complete loss of her hearing.
Generosity of Woman
It is more blessed to give than to receive, and the women are always ready and willing to give, more than the men are. There is a willingness to sacrifice on the part of our dear sisters, and of women generally, all over the world, that we do not find in men; they are leaders in all things that make for spiritual uplift. Time is precious, and I have come here only to ask God to bless you abundantly. The leaders who are engaged in the Relief Society and the Mutual, and all of the organizations therein, have the love and confidence of the Presidency of the Church. We pray for them. In our meetings we always pray for the Executive Officers of the auxiliary organizations; also in my silent prayers I do not believe I ever forget to pray for those men and women who stand at the head of these organizations. May the Spirit of the living God be your guide continually is my humble prayer; and I ask it in the name of the Redeemer.
A Word in Closing
President Louise Y. Robison
May you all feel blessed, realizing that this is a beautiful preparation for the feast in store for us during the next few days. I trust that you are comfortably settled, you sisters from out of town. If you are inconvenienced, try not to let the physical discomfort overcome the spiritual blessings that you can receive during this event, which can come only once in our lives. Let us take from this conference, not only today, but especially from the General Conference, where the Priesthood of the living God will preside, an inspiration to our homes that will make us better women, better mothers, for the strength that we shall receive. We are glad to have the beautiful things said about the women that have been said today, but we can only continue to deserve this praise by making an effort. I pray that our Heavenly Father will bless you and your families from whom you are separated; and that his peace may be with us, I ask it in the name of Jesus Christ.
Text Book for the Course in Literature
Manager Hooper of the Deseret News Book Store has been receiving some requests for the Text Book on Short Stories to be used next year in the Literary work. The Deseret News Book Store is not handling the books for the Relief Society; special arrangements having been made with D. C. Heath and Company, whereby the organizations may obtain the book for $2.88 by sending to San Francisco. The Deseret News cannot possibly sell the book for $2.88 as they have to pay D. C. Heath and Company that price and then add freight and postage and other costs,—consequently they must charge $3.60 plus postage for the Book. We do not wish members of our organization to feel that if they insist on buying their books at the Deseret News Book Store that they are being imposed upon, they are not. The Deseret News Book Store has always aimed to give the Relief Society good service in every respect. We wish to make an appeal to the organizations not to send to D. C. Heath and Company for books to be delivered C. O. D. The exact price of the book is known, which should be forwarded to the publishers to save them billing the books out. We wish the Stakes would find out how many books they will need and then send for them altogether accompanied by Money Order or Check.
PARENTS—YOUR PROBLEM SOLVED
The problem of selecting a college with which to entrust the business training of your sons and daughters is of the utmost importance. Human lives are involved—your own flesh and blood—and the training received will become an inseparable part of those lives. If good it will bring success and honor; if poor it will prove a handicap for life. The development of character is the chief aim of all education, and you want to be sure that your sons and daughters will be surrounded by good influences. You want them to gain in business integrity as well as in knowledge and technical ability, and no matter how good their home training has been their character will be influenced by the environment in which they receive their business education. At the L. D. S. Business College the maintenance of a high moral standard is considered of first importance, and when you entrust your sons and daughters to our care you may be sure that they will be surrounded by influences that will make for upright manhood and womanhood, as well as for educational thoroughness. Doesn't this appeal to you? You cannot estimate in dollars and cents the advantage of having your sons and daughters receive business training amid such elevating and refining influences. You need have no fear in sending them to us alone, for we will take your place in looking after their mental, moral and physical welfare, and you can rest assured that when they leave us they will be fully equipped for the future in every sense of the word. L. D. S. BUSINESS COLLEGE Write us for full information Presentation of Bathsheba W. Smith Portrait  By Kate M. Barker  April 3, 1930, the painting of Bathsheba W. Smith took a permanent place in the Alice Art Collection in the State Capitol. Mrs. Julia A. F, Lund, General Secretary of the Relief Society, presided at the ceremonies and introduced Mrs. Louise Y. Robison, who presented the portrait to the state. The picture was unveiled by Mary Shepherd Horne Winder, a daughter of Mrs. Alice Merrill Horne, and greatgranddaughter of Bathsheba W. Smith. It was accepted in behalf of the state by Joseph A. Everett, a member of the Utah Art Institute. The portrait of "Aunt Bathsheba" was painted by Lee Greene Richards soon after his return from studying in Paris. In the portrait Sister Smith is wearing a dress of white silk made in Utah and given to her by the General Board of the Relief Society. A smaller painting of 'Aunt Bathsheba" hangs in the Relief Society Offices, together with the other fine portraits of former Presidents of the Relief Society, all painted by Utah artists. The large portrait, now in the state capitol, was intended for this collection, but was found too large. Then for several years it hung in the Art Room of the University of Utah. The feeling that a permanent place should be found for it, led to its presentation to the Alice Art Collection. The Alice Art Collection, in which the picture has found a permanent place, was named in honor of Mrs. Alice Merrill Horne, who was the author of the bill providing for the Utah Art Institute, and who has always been untiring in her efforts to foster art and encourage our Utah artists. The fact that Mrs. Horne is a granddaughter of Bathsheba W. Smith and a former member of the General Board of the Relief Society makes the gift of the portrait to the Alice Art Collection particularly appropriate. A Prayer By Elsie E, Barrett The days of youth have long since passed, Life's noon has come and gone; In trying ways my lot's been cast, But still I'm carrying on; A Spirit deep within my soul— As shadows draw their length, Makes known to me, in many ways, That I've been given strength. O gentle Spirit walk with me, Be Thou my faithful friend; Help me to keep a prayerful heart, Be with me to the end. Relief Society Annual Report 1929 Julia A. F. Lund, General Secretary FINANCIAL ACCOUNT
Cash Receipts
Balance on hand January 1, 1929:
Charity Fund $ 33,711.27
General Fund 125,217.29
Wheat Trust Fund 13,643.53
Total Balance, January 1 $172,572.09
Donations Received during 1929:
Charity Fund $ 88,896.23
General Fund 128,628.16
Annual Dues 23,008.60
Other Receipts 67,569.94
Total Receipts $308,102.93
Total Balance on Hand and Receipts $ 480,675.02
Cash Disbursements
Paid for Charitable Purposes $ 98,925.02
Paid for General Purposes 145,401.35
Wheat Trust Fund Remitted to Presiding Bishop's Office 237.57
Annual Dues Paid to General Board and to Stake Boards 26,349.09
Paid for Other Purposes 38,231.84
Total Disbursements $309,144.87
Balance on hand December 31, 1929:
Charity Fund $ 35,689.75
General Fund 122,689.77
Wheat Trust Fund 13,150.63
Total Balance, December 31 $171,530.15
Total Disbursements and Balance on Hand $ 480,675.02
ASSETS AND LIABILITIES
Assets
Balance on Hand December 31, 1929:
All Funds $171,086.97
Wheat Trust Fund Deposited at Presiding Bishop's Office 40,508.54
Other Invested Funds 59,869.86
Value of Real Estate and Buildings 74,539.08
Value of Furniture and Fixtures 70,802.48
Other Assets 26,398.50
                                              $443,205.43
Stake Board Cash Balances on Hand December 31, 1929 $82,677.54
Other Assets 5.67
                                              $ 82,683.21
Total Assets $525,888.64
Liabilities
Indebtedness $ 1,464.00
Balance Net Assets 524,424.64
                                              $525,888.64
Stake Board Indebtedness $ 117.96
Balance Net Assets 82,565.25
                                              $ 82,683.21
Total Net Assets and Liabilities $608,147.85
STATISTICS
Membership
January 1, 1929:
Executive and Special Officers 10,376
Visiting Teachers 21,229
Other Members 30,632
Total Membership January 1 62,237
Admitted to Membership During Year 8,732
Decrease
Removed or Resigned 7,219
Died 848
Total Decrease 8,067
Membership December 31, 1929:
Executive and Special Officers 10,363
Visiting Teachers 21,228
Other Members 31,311
Total Membership December 31 62,902
The Total Membership includes:
General Officers and Board Members 23
Stake Officers and Board Members 1,052
Mission Presidents and Officers 58
Number of Stakes 102
Number of Missions 14
Number of Relief Society Ward and Branch Organizations 1,665
Number of Visiting Teachers' Districts 10,248
Number of L. D. S. Families in Wards 101,869
Number of L. D. S. women, non-members, eligible for membership 107,534
Number of Relief Society Magazines taken 26,509
Number of Executive Officers taking Relief Society Magazine 5,462
Number of Meetings held in Wards 54,955
Number of Stake Meetings Held 2,085
Number of Stake and Ward Officers' (Union) Meetings Held 1,096
Number of Ward Conferences Held 1,192
Average Attendance at Ward Meetings 23,716
Number of Visits by Visiting Teachers 726,232
Number of Families Helped 13,578
Number of Days Spent with the Sick 50,706
Number of Special Visits to Sick and Homebound 184,166
Number of Days Spent in Temple Work 121,783
Number of Bodies Prepared for Burial 2,363
Number of Visits to Wards by Stake Officers 5,490
COMPARATIVE FIGURES FROM RELIEF SOCIETY REPORTS
                                   1927        1928        1929
Paid for Charitable Purposes $100,105.39 $100,836.76 $ 98,925.02
Total or Present Membership 61,820 62,550 62,902
No. of Relief Society Organizations 1,558 1,452 1,665
No. of Relief Society Magazines Taken 23,575 24,570 26,509
Days Spent with Sick 52,613 52,796 50,706
Special Visits to Sick and Homebound 189,302 189,593 184,166
Families Helped 16,762 17,550 13,578
No. of Visits by Stake Relief Society Officers to Wards 5,002 5,032 5,490
No. of Visits of Relief Society Visiting Teachers 686,605 700,131 726,232
No. of days spent in Temple Work 129,368 133,362 121,783
DISTRIBUTION OF MEMBERSHIP OF RELIEF SOCIETY
Stakes Missions
Arizona 1,597 Australia 68
California 1,499 Canada 152
Canada 1,292 Europe 4,660
Colorado 1,048 Hawaii 796
Idaho 8,417 Mexico 200
Mexico 164 New Zealand 488
Nevada 621 Samoa 308
Oregon 223 South Africa 43
Utah 34,606 Tahiti 245
Wyoming 1,934 Tonga 112
United States 4,429
Total Membership in Stakes 51,401 Total Membership in Missions 11,501
Total Membership in Stakes and Missions 62,902
(Note: In the foregoing report all funds are held and disbursed in the various wards, with the exception of the annual membership dues.)
 God, Open Your Door By The Late Myron E. Crandall God, open your door and let me in; My knuckles are bruised 'and my knees are thin; My heart is sick, and my brain is sore— God, open your door. God! Open your door, can't you see all day I've forsaken my folly to implore and pray? I have beaten my breast, and loudly swore To do what you wished—God! Open your door. God! Open your door; I know you are there, I saw you one night through the portals of prayer; 'Twas long, long ago, I was only a child, My faith was so young, yet you looked down and smiled— God! Open your door. God, Open your door, within and without Are perils of fear and pitfalls of doubt; Some rise to upbraid, I come to adore— Quick, God, open your door. Ing and baking. Natural GAS Start now with your MODERNIZATION plan—automatic house heating—instant water heating —SILENT automatic refrigeration. This fine, new fuel also furnishes instant heat regulation for cookAnd the new Natural Gas ranges are marvels of efficient operation and beauty. COME IN AND LET US GIVE YOU A FREE ESTIMATE FOR YOUR MODERNIZATION UTAH GAS & COKE CO. Serving Salt Lake City. OGDEN GAS COMPANY WASATCH GAS CO. Serving KAYSVILLE LAYTON FARMINGTON BOUNTIFUL CENTERVILLE MAGNA GARFIELD MURRAY Serving Ogden MIDVALE SANDY MORGAN Salt Lake Visiting Nurse Association GENERAL INFORMATION Objects 1. To provide graduate nurses registered in the State of Utah for patients not requiring continuous nursing care and to provide such other service as may from time to time be necessary to give efficient care to the sick. 2. To teach house nursing, hygienic living and proper care of children. 3. To stimulate community Irresponsibility for the health of the community and to cooperate with other social agencies to this end. Article 11, Constitution of Salt Lake Visiting Nurse Association. CALLS Application for visiting nurse service made by telephone Hyland 6177 or Wasatch 935. Calls for visits to be made in the morning should be received the preceding evening or before 8:30 A. M.; for afternoon visits before 2 P. M. NURSING SERVICE Bedside Nursing Nursing visits are made in the homes of patients who cannot or do not care to go to the hospitals. This care may include: A bed bath, a sterile dressing, an irrigation, or any of the various forms of nursing care given by graduate nurses. It is available to petsons of all ages in medical or surgical cases, both facute and chronic. The nurse responds to every new call, but nursing care is not given after the first visit unless there is a physician in attendance who has given orders for care of the patient. Maternity Service Pre-natal care is offered to expectant mothers. Visits are made in the homes to carry out the directions of the doctor and to teach the mother how to prepare for her confinement. Delivery Service provides assistance to the doctor and after care of the mother and baby. Necessary sterile supplies furnished. Hourly Service This is an appointment service to suit the convenience of the patient or attending physician for special treatments, dressings, or minor operations. (Maximum service 4 hours.) Hospital Extension Service This provides cooperation with the hospitals in extending nursing care to convalescent patients after leaving the hospital. Industrial Nursing Any industry, fraternal organization or public utility, may secure the services of a visiting nurse for members or employees through contract with the Visiting Nurse Ass'n. School Nursing Nurses are available for private schools. CHARGES Routine Visits..............$1.00 Maternity Service: Deliveries not to exceed 4 hours....6.00 After care of mother and baby—visit............ 1.25 Hourly Service—per hour.... 1.00 Nature's Interpreter (Hafen) By The Late Myron E. Crandall Almost the last words uttered by Myron E. Crandall were words of admiration for a painting of John Hafen, hanging over his fireplace in his living room in his home at Springville, Utah. The willow is weeping, The cypress is keeping Her watch o'er his sleeping Where fair lilies wave: In forest assembling The aspens are trembling, Their branches resembling The sheen of the brave; While bees are a-droning And waters intoning Their voice to the moaning Of winds o'er his grave. The sounds in the wildwood Resound as in childhood, When fancy beguiled would Allure him away; Like babes gone a-maying Where fairies were playing His heart went a-straying Enchanted all day; Rare beauty enjoying, (Nor loveliness cloying) His talent employing, He lingered for aye. The breezes may vary, The robins make merry— He's gone from the prairie Alas, all too soon: The stars in their waning In splendor are reigning, He looked at the flowers, placed on the piano by his wife remarking that they were very lovely,—then fixing his eyes on the Hafen painting above the mantel he said "Isn't it beautiful." Their vigil retaining, And pale-is the moon: While mountains are calling Where waters are falling And night shades are palling A'er moorland and dune. - The woods sing their dirges, Their billows and surges Impellingly urges His spirit arise; Their beauty revealing, O'er nature a-stealing; So softly appealing Where silent he lies Asleep on his pillow Neath cypress and willow, While moan of the billow In vain to him cries. Fair Psyche attended As his palette blended The colors that tended To darkle the roses; He breathes in the flowers And weeps with the shower, The cool sylvan bower His presence discloses; He walks in the forest And ever seems nearest Where skies are the clearest And nature reposes. Sego MILK Jr Puddings Pies" Custards At All Grocer's "A Surety of Purity" Shopping is a pleasant procedure in an O. P. Skaggs System Store. No one has to be on guard against impure merchandise for we have pure foods only for our customers' selection. If you are particular about the purity, cleanliness and sanitation of the foods you buy, try one of our stores next. Remember, the name QO. P. Skaggs System is "A Surety of Purity." O. P SKAGGS Efficient Service FOOD System STORES "A Surety: of Purity" WEDDING INVITATIONS and ANNOUNCEMENTS That Are Socially Correct and of the Very Latest Styles It will be a pleasure to assist you in making a selection of which you will be proud. The Deseret News Press 29 on Richards Street Salt Lake City, Utah When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine Relief Society Women--- Attention After sixteen years of service to the people, the BURIAL CLOTHES DEPARTMENT of the Relief Society takes this opportunity of expressing appreciation to you for your co-operation and patronage, which has contributed to the growth and stability of the Department. The Presidency of the Church, realizing the needs of the people, authorized the establishment of the Department in 1913. Since that time it has endeavored to serve the — people. The Burial Clothes Department desires to announce that it has on hand a large and complete stock of temple and burial clothing in a variety of materials. There are suits for men and women, and _ burial clothing for children, including tailored suits for small boys. We give prompt and careful attention to mail, telephone and telegraph orders, and prepay postage and express charges. When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine SUMMER EXCURSION FARES Via Southern Pacific Lines TO LOS ANGELES AND RETURN BOTH WAYS $40 00 To LOS ANGELES via SAN FRANCISCO returning $ 47. 50 direct or route reversed.. —— Proportionately low fares from all other points in UTAH, IDAHO and H MONTANA. STOPOVERS ALLOWED AT ALL POINTS. TICKETS ON SALE DAILY, MAY 15th TO SEPT. 30th FINAL RETURN LIMIT OCT. 31st For further information CALL, WRITE or PHONE D. R. OWEN, GENERAL AGENT PHONES WAS. 3008—3078 UNION PACGHIC STAGES THE SCENIC OVERLAND ROUTE TO AMERICA'S WONDERLAND West Yellowstone Zion Park—Bryce Canon—Grand Canon Los Angeles and California Points 8:00 a.m. 6:15 p.m. Denver—Kansas City—St. Louis—Chicago 8:00 p. M. 12:01 a. M Pocatello—West Yellowstone—Portland—Spokane 7:00 a.m. 2:00 p. m. 6:30 p. m. Travel by Bus With Railroad Certainty UNION BUS STATION Phone Was. 6231. 144-146 E. Broadway a When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine via SAN FRANCISCO 41 SO. MAIN ST.  SALT LAKE CITY SATISFACTION Not only have Beneficial Policyholders received the guarantees as set out in their contracts, but in addition thereto receive each year A SPECIAL CASH DIVIDEND For all Beneficial Policyholders share in the net earnings of the Company
The BIG HOME COMPANY
Gives this added feature at no additional cost For we offer PARTICIPATING INSURANCE At Low NON-PARTICIPATING RATES
BENEFICIAL LIFE INSURANCE CO.
H. E. SORENSEN, Local Representative
39 North 3rd East—Rexburg, Idaho—Phone 186
Seven Temple and Times Champion
Burial Clothes of the World
COMPLETE SUITS FOR MEN AND WOMEN
Variety of Grades and Prices
Prompt and Careful Attention To Mail—Telephone—Telegraph Orders.
Sent to you on Free Trial
Open Daily, 9 a. M.—5 p. M.
General Board Relief Society
Phone Wasatch 3286 at 177 E. 3rd So. St., Salt Lake City
When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine
HEBER J. GRANT, Pres.
Utah Power & Light Co.
Eureka Vacuum Cleaner Co.
E. T. RALPHS, Gen. Mgr.
29 Bishops' Building, Salt Lake City, Utah
L. D. S. GARMENTS FOR ALL SEASONS
Selected from our extensive line of L. D. S. Garments we suggest the following numbers for all seasons wear:
No. 1 New ribbed lt. wt. cotton with rayon silk stripe. An excellent Ladies number...$1.25
No. 6 Light weight summer garment. Old style or Ladies new style 95¢
No. 2 Old style, ribbed lgt. wt. Cotton, our standard summer number.. 1.25
No. 7 Light wt. New or old style, mercerized—silky finish ...... 1.75
No. 3 Ribbed med. wt. Cotton, bleached. Our all season number.. 1.90
No. 8 Light weight Spring and Summer garment. Men Only 1.25
No. 4 [garbled text in original]
No. 9 Light weight silk for ladies only, new style only.............. 1.50
No. 5 [garbled text in original]
No. 10 Medium wt. Silk for men and women, new style only.. 2.50
In ordering, be sure to specify whether old or new style garments, three-quarter or ankle length legs, short or long sleeves are wanted. Also give bust measure, height and weight to insure perfect fit. Postage prepaid. Special discount to missionaries.
FACTORY TO YOU—THE ORIGINAL
Utah Woolen Mills
One-Half Block South of Temple Gates
Summer Brides Usually Prefer Electric Gifts
BEAUTIFUL AND USEFUL.
See displays in any of our salesrooms. Reasonably priced.
Utah Power & Light Co.
Efficient Public Service
When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine
back number .................... 2.25
Briant Stringham, Manager
28 Richards Street
L. D. S. GARMENTS
Good grade, and well made. State if for man or lady.
147 Spring Needle, Flat Weave......$1.10
32 Combed Cotton, Lt. Wt............ 1.50
208 Lt. Wt. Rib. Double Card Cot... 1.35
222 Rayon Striped Combed Cot....... 1.65
258 Med. Wt. Rib. Double Card Cot. 1.85
628 Merc. Lisle Light Wt................. 2.00
284 Ladies' Crepe Rayon.................. 2.00
Postage prepaid.
When ordering, state Size, New or Old Style,
Sample on request.
508 Ladies' New Style Extra Lt. Wt. Combed Cot. ....................... 1.25
302 Ladies' New Style, Rayon....... 2.25
307 Men's New Style, Rayon........ 2.25
264 Rayon Silk, Fine Quality........ 2.25
748 Unbleached Cot., Hvy. Wt.......... 1.50
754 Bleached Cot., Hvy. Wt............. 2.25
1072 Mixed Wool and Cotton.............. 4.00
BARTON & CO.
Established in Utah 45 Years
142 WEST SOUTH TEMPLE ST.
SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH
TEMPLE AND BURIAL CLOTHES
COMPLETE SUITS FOR MEN AND WOMEN
Variety of Grades and Prices.
Prompt and Careful Attention To Mail—Telephone—Telegraph Orders
Open Daily, 9 a. M.—5 p. M.
GENERAL BOARD RELIEF SOCIETY
Phone Wasatch 3286, 29 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah
L. D. S. GARMENTS Direct From Factory
You are guaranteed unusual wear and satisfaction from Cutler Garments. They are made from the best long wearing, two combed yarns.
No. 68 Ribbed ex. Light Cotton........$.85
No. 74 Ribbed lt. Wt. Cotton................ 1.10
No. 84 Rib. Mercerized Lisle.......... 1.95
No. 76 Ribbed lt. Wt. Lisle... 1.35
No. 63 Lt. Med. Unbleached Double Back.. 1.35
No. 64 Ribbed Lt. Med. Cot............... 1.35
No. 62 Ribbed Med. Hvy. Bleached.... 1.75
Non Run Rayon, Elbow and Knee Length 2.15
Long Sleeves and Legs...................... 2.15
No. 61 Ribbed Med. Hvy. Unbleached Double Back........................... 1.75
No. 56 Ribbed Hvy. Cotton bleached 2.15
No. 55 Ribbed Hvy. Cot., Unbleached Double Back....... 2.15
No. 27 Ribbed Med. Wt. 50% Wool.. 3.35
No. 39 Ribbed Hvy. Wt. 50% Wool 3.85
No. 32 Silk and Wool... 4.50
WHITE TEMPLE PANTS
8 oz. Heavy Duck 1.95
SPECIAL MISSIONARY DISCOUNTS
In ordering garments please state if for men or women and if old or new styles are wanted. Also give bust, height and weight. Marking 15¢. Postage Prepaid. Sizes above 48—20% extra.
GARMENTS UNDERWEAR
When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine
Ask for one of our folders describing the different services we offer.
LAUNDRY
Hyland Distinctive Work
Office 319 S. Main St.
Reaching for Health
DR CANNON'S SOFT CURD BABY MILK
A specialized product, sold under the famous ARDEN Brand. Hundreds of babies are thriving on this unpasteurized soft curd milk, produced in accordance with strict "Class A" standards. It is easy to digest and rich in body-building elements.
WASATCH
CLASS A MILK — FRESH DAILY
Temple and Burial Clothes
COMPLETE SUITS FOR MEN AND WOMEN
Variety of Grades and Prices
Prompt and Careful Attention To Mail—Telephone—Telegraph Orders
Open Daily, 9 a. M.—5 p. M.
General Board Relief Society
Phone Wasatch 3286
29 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah
When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine

CONTENTS
Portrait of Elizabeth Francis Yates........................ Frontispiece
Mothers of Our Executive Officers—
Elizabeth Francis Yates............. 348
Margaret Zimmerman Brown........ 351
Sariah Jane Starr Alleman.......... 355
Julia P. Murdock Farnsworth........ 358
Snake River..... Annie Pike Greenwood 361
"Atascadero"....... Hanson D. Puthuff 362
The Glory of the West. Harrison R. Merrill 363
Editorial—The Centennial Pageant....... 364
The Magazine Congratulates Mrs. Armstrong.............. 365
Admissions............... 365
Jubilee Boxes........ Annie Wells Cannon 366
Mary Birch Miller, a Gold Star Mother... Cora Carver Richie 374
If By Dying...... Arthur James Bowers 377
Bathsheba Blackburn Grundy............ 378
A Character Sketch of Helen Gibson Ellis................... 381
Reminiscences of a Pioneer.. Alice Morrill 385
Carolina L. Jaks............... 388
Christina Olson Stramberg............... 391
Emma Joyce Udall.......... Levi S. Udall 393
The Meaning of Culture.... Lois V. Hales 395
Notes from the Field.................. 398
West with the Ox Teams................. 402
Organ of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints
Room 20 Bishop's Bldg. Salt Lake City, Utah
$1.00 a Year—Single Copy, 10c
Foreign, $1.25 a Year—15c Single Copy
Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah
Phone Wasatch 3123
VOL. XVII JULY, 1930 NO. 7
ELIZABETH FRANCIS YATES

The Relief Society Magazine
VOL. XVII JULY, 1930 No. 7
Mothers Of Our Executive Officers
By Fay Ollerton
Unlike as these four women were in their background, their emotional patterns, and in their spheres of activity, a common thread ran through their lives. It was a thing apart even from the gospel that had called them from across oceans and unending plains, and it was one of the determining factors that brought their daughters together as the Executive Board of the Woman's Relief Society. One of the women began life in the green beauty of rural England, another in an historic Pennsylvania town, a third first saw life in Illinois in the precarious days that preceded the Western migration of the Church, and a fourth was born on the snow covered shores of Utah Lake five years after Brigham Young had planted his cane on the future site of the Salt Lake Temple.
Yet, when the ruling traits of any one of the four are written, they speak as well for the other three. All of them had the sincerity and love of naturalness that marks the truly noble. Each of them walked with dignity, whether they lived, for the moment, in a dugout, a log cabin, a simple home, or a mansion built with riches. Always they preserved that "high opinion" of themselves. They had found the secret of harmony and inner peace without which no person can find repose. In intelligence and intellect these women ranked high. They had the common sense necessary to guide their own lives and to give inspiration and discretion in helping others. All of them were sought to give advice—perhaps because in their homes success dwelt, born of righteous living, thrifty habits, keen foresight, and harmony of aims and ideals. Their homes were never without books, from the Bible and attendant Church works to the novels of Dickens and Thackeray, and the then startling ideas sometimes expressed by George Eliot. And there were histories, too. How they all loved history! One cared for stirring tales of patriotism; another devoured biographies; a third sought for volumes dealing with the story of woman's struggle (not yet won); and the four of them were avid readers of periodicals and newspapers. From them and their kind came the persons who made it possible for women to lift their heads proudly as they do today and to face the world fearlessly.
Perhaps one of their strongest traits was superior energy. When health permitted it, each could do the work of almost four young women of 1930. They kept their own homes (kept them clean and orderly and with all the beauty they could muster), often spinning, weaving, sewing, assisted in the outdoor work, made butter and cheese, gave their time unsparingly to the Church; spent many hours in administering to the sick and needy; inspired and counselled their husbands; sometimes earned their living; found time for public affairs; read and followed cultural interests, and taught their children. They worked from dawn until far past the twilight hours, yet their energy seldom wavered or failed.
Most remarkable of all to the women of today, who are torn between the desire of following careers outside the home and of rearing children under happy conditions, is the manner in which these four women, with their strong personalities, their varied talents, and their love for action, kept their personal desires subordinated to the welfare of their Church, husbands, and children. They reared felicitous families without curtailing self-expression.
Elizabeth Francis Yates
An English officer, home from India, was walking down the Devonshire lanes with his tall, young daughter Elizabeth. "No lady," he told her, "ever leaves the house before she has fastened her gloves." Elizabeth Francis was still a goodish distance from her teens, but she wanted to be a lady worthy of her gentle mother and her soldier father. In after years, when life had dealt to her some of the bitterest potions it seems to reserve for those whom it loves most dearly, she still fastened her gloves and straightened her prim veil before she left the house. Elizabeth Francis had always been taught to meet the world in her best; the Elizabeth Yates who had walked across the plains so that her "pretty china" might ride, who had lived in a dugout in a little Utah town, and who had spent the last years of her life redeeming her dead in the house of the Lord, always met the world in her best with her head high.
But there is a fascinating story that lies between the Elizabeth who attended the Church of England with her pious mother and walked the Devonshire lanes with her officer father and the tall, blue-eyed woman who spent her days in the Salt Lake Temple. And only the smallest part of it can be indicated here.
When Elizabeth was a tiny child she had been sent to a maiden lady's school and taught her letters and the intricate stitches samplers in those days required. On her father's rare visits home, she displayed her knowledge. "Read the Bible," that officer who seldom crossed a church threshold would ask of her. Often he remarked, "Elizabeth, we haven't the gospel with us that you are reading about. But some day it will come, and when it does, you must not be afraid to accept it." He died when Elizabeth was twelve, but the girl, soon grown into a tall woman, dark of hair, blue of eyes, and graceful of bearing, remembered, and when she heard the elders of Mormonism, she was not afraid.
Yet an almost unpassable chasm stood between her and the truth. When she was fifteen, she had married the administrator of her father's estate, a man much older than herself and far removed from her in desires. She had borne him four girls, one of them now being only a baby, and her joy to have them and her husband know the truth was so great that she could scarcely wait until his return from London.
This man saw Mormonism as a thing to be treated with scorn. He told Elizabeth that if she accepted it she would lose her home and children. This last she could not do; neither could she forsake the truth so wonderfully given. She told her husband that she must have her daughters and the gospel too, but he, without giving her an opportunity for further decision, took the children away and kept them hidden from her.
It was a destitute young woman he left in quiet Devonshire—one burdened with one of the greatest griefs that can come to woman, and one unused to the hard ways of earning her daily bread. She was cooking strangers' bread when a traveling elder of her Church, young Thomas Yates, found her and sent her to Bath to live with his parents. But even in Bath, a living must be earned, and she began work in a corset factory.
Meanwhile she had not forgotten her children. The baby had died shortly after the separation, and she now spent much of her small earnings in trying to find ways of having the other three children come to her. All her plans failed. Her husband married another woman to care for the girls, and several years later she and some other saints from Bath made the long voyage across the Atlantic. On July 22, 1862, she was married to Thomas Yates at Florence, Nebraska, and set out to walk to Utah. Perhaps if she had known the many miles across Kansas and Wyoming, she would not have insisted on the china dishes.
Down at little Scipio she had Thomas erect a shelf for the china. Children, four daughters and one son, were born now, and the second child, Louise, came near to seeing life for the first time in a potato pit where pop-eyed toads and the fetid odor of sprouting potatoes vied with each other for attention. It was during an Indian raid and Elizabeth was rescued from the pit and taken to the log meeting-house just in time for her daughter, who was destined to be the president of all the Relief Societies, to escape from the ignominy of being born in a potato pit.
When the Yates first went to Scipio, they were literally without purse or scrip. Thomas had been a clerk in England and neither knew anything of how to combat the vicissitudes of pioneer life. But Elizabeth, who faced the world in her best, had brought with the china dishes some silk dresses, voluminous of skirt and decorated with yards and yards of ribbon velvet. Even in those severe times there were those who had, and in Scipio to have was to own sheep. And sheepmen usually had daughters and wives. Elizabeth ripped the trimmings from her dresses and sold it to the families for sheep. Then she began cutting the silk, piece by piece. By the time the last dress was gone, she and Thomas had acquired the beginnings of a small flock that was later to bring them the necessities and a few of the luxuries of life.
While the sale of the dresses temporarily deprived Elizabeth of her best, she soon managed a Sunday dress. There was never a time, her children will say, when she did not have a "best" dress and pair of shoes for them. Other children might go hatless in the summer wind, but Elizabeth's wore hats woven of bright colored paper. She was one pioneer woman who did not belong to the sunbonnet era. When she went to church or social gatherings, she wore bonnets fashioned by her own hands. She was scornful of the homely bonnet, even when she took Thomas, who was working in a nearby field, a dinner made of hot greens she had recently dug.
As the Yates family prospered, they grew in religious prominence. Thomas was a bishop, Elizabeth a Relief Society officer, and later the Stake President of the same organization. It was during her stake days that she bent all of her efforts towards helping the cause of woman's suffrage. "I attended to the matter at once," she wrote to a sister officer in regard to raising money for a national convention. Emmeline B. Wells spoke of her as "the General,"—and the Indian officer would have been pleased to have heard the title.
Her children's education was not neglected. Both Elizabeth and Thomas had fine voices, and they sang "Bell Brandon" and "To the West, to the West, to the land of the free, Where the mighty Missouri rolls down to the Sea," to their children and to the groups who came to the Yates home because it was more pleasant there than other accessible places. The Bible, Dickens, and George Eliot were part of the daily fare of the young Yates. It meant that they had been very bad indeed when Elizabeth did not read or tell them a story.
But singing and story telling were only a few of Elizabeth's gifts. She was a toe dancer! The pioneer woman loved life, swift moving and full of laughter, but she was just a little bit afraid of this last talent. It was not seemly, she thought, for a woman of her stature and position to cast off restraint in the dance. Yet once in a while, when some extra good fortune had come to the Yates family, or when they were more than every day happy, she could be persuaded to dance a jig.
His days passed by in fullness and in strength. There was all the work of maintaining the household (there were times when she made everything Thomas wore, except his shoes manufactured by a local artist), the Relief Society work going from town to town in a white-top, rearing her children with a firm but understanding hand, and entertaining the groups who made her home a half-way place between St. George and Salt Lake. It was when she was entertaining George Teasdale in early Scipio days that the dark burden of her life began to be lifted. By means of a casual remark of his she learned that her oldest daughter Susan in far-off England had joined the Church. The joining had been an outgrowth of the daughter's desire to find the mother so long denied her.
When Thomas, as unselfish as his wife, left his home work in Echo Canyon on the railroad that was soon to end the pioneer era. The money was used to bring Susan to Utah. Her coming was a happy time and did much to eradicate the suffering Elizabeth had borne these years in silence.
Another chance visitor, this time a traveling man Susan's husband was entertaining, noted a resemblance between Susan and a young woman he had seen in Michigan. Susan sent a letter which was advertised in Michigan papers and before long an answer came from Ella, the youngest living child of Elizabeth's first marriage. Money was sent for Ella and her husband to come West, and no person save a mother who has undergone a similar experience will understand the anguish Elizabeth endured during the waiting. What would her child be like? Would she love her mother, and would she understand why the separation had been? These and a hundred other questions racked the mother.
When Ella came, Elizabeth could ask for nothing more. "The loveliest of all her lovely daughters," everyone said. So much was Ella like her mother that it was hard to believe Elizabeth had not reared this child. A few years passed and Ella, too, became a member of her mother's Church.
Seventy-six years passed after the October 8, 1836, when Elizabeth Francis had been born in Devonshire. An illness kept her from temple work, and then another illness and she was gone to join Thomas, with whom she had found so much earthly happiness.
A few days after her death in December, her children found a note in a little box where she kept most of her most intimate effects. It read, "Should I die before fast day, I will owe tithing." And in the box was the amount of tithing. She had been prepared, even before she went forth to meet death.
Margaret Zimmerman Brown
Margaret Zimmerman was fifteen years old when she left Garden Grove for the "Valley Home." She was no ordinary person, this beautiful brown-haired girl with the rosy cheeks and intelligent brown eyes, set far apart. Back of her was an unusual father who had been educated at the University of Berlin and fought in the wars against Napoleon. Once he had been captured by the French and been treated so kindly by them that when he was returned to his regiment, he slipped quietly away to an American-bound ship rather than lift up arms against a people he had learned to love. And there was a refined and intelligent mother, Juliana Hoke.
During the four months of the trek, when Margaret and her family had waited days for swollen streams to subside, she had dreamed of this new Western Country and of the strange future it held for her. Once she had seen the cattle stampede, and with her own eyes watched a woman fall from a covered wagon and be crushed to death by a wagon driven by those dear to her. And she had walked most of the way across the sunflower and sage brush trails. It is no wonder that her beautiful face had a premature seriousness.
On the 25th of September, 1851, she wrote in her journal: "Oh, what a beautiful sight! The peaceful valley of little houses and happy homes. Truly a haven of rest after our long and tiresome journey."
A few days in the "haven" and the Zimmermans moved to Lehi to share an already crowded house with a kind friend. By spring George Zimmerman had a lot and a log cabin. The hum of the wheel and the heavier music of the loom could be heard from every open door and Margaret was one of the fastest of the workers. When the girls met, there was talk of ambitions never to be realized. If this handsome Zimmerman girl were a man, she'd not be spending her time over a wheel! What could she do that was better than that, the girls would want to know. Why, she would be a doctor, one who could cure women of their ailments and save babies. But in her time there was wool to be carded, butter to be churned, yarn to be dyed, garments to be sewed, and Margaret was ever one for the job at hand. Besides, a woman doctor, a real one, had never been heard of. Years later she had the satisfaction of having her only son study medicine and of having him for her physician in the closing years of her life.
She was very popular, this frank, outspoken Zimmerman girl, with the quick tongue and the laughing answer. If the new play needed a comedian, Margaret was there with her lines learned the first night, and when the scraping of the fiddle began in the log school and church house, she was one of the first ones on the floor and the last to leave in the flushed hours of the dawn. And just as happy were the hours spent with her father—now too old to teach school but not too old to make and mend shoes, a trade that he had become familiar with while in the French prison. He would tell her fascinating stories of student days in Berlin, of Wilhelm the Great, and of the strange Napoleon.
These hours of companionship with her father made some of the youths' chatter seem inconsequential and shallow. When she was twenty-two, she married a tall, dark-bearded man named John Brown, one of the original pioneers, who had already seen much of the world Margaret had dreamed about. Indeed, he was a Southerner and had crossed the plains thirteen times with oxen and mule teams and was already possessed of two families. Her wedding dress was guaranteed all wool, spun into yarn and woven by herself, with white crocheted collar and cuffs. One of her wedding presents was a cow, which for reasons unknown she named Jenny Lind, and her first home had one window in it and an adobe chimney for burning sagebrush.
From now on Margaret's girlhood was placed behind her. Ten children in all were born to her. When she had been married a decade and a half, the second wife died, leaving the third with the rearing of three more girls. "I fasted and prayed," Margaret wrote, "that I might do my duty right—when they met their mother they would feel toward each other as they did when they were separated by death."
Now her husband was bishop of Pleasant Grove and she lived in a story and a half adobe house with a flower garden in the front and a vegetable garden in the back. There were also chickens and pigs. There was always a cow. Margaret, for all that her pies and cabbage and wilted lettuce dishes were probably the best in town, was very frugal. Little money in reserve; when her children grew old enough they were sent to the Brigham Young Academy at Provo, accompanied by some of her bedding and a week's supply of food. Her girls were to be given equal opportunities with her boys.
After the birth of her last child, Margaret was bedridden for five years and she was never to be so strong again. It was during these years that the real woman came into her own. She was no querulous patient, demanding sacrifices from her children. Instead she guided her family and almost the entire town from the realm of a four-poster. People came to her for advice because they knew she would tell them the truth—and they respected her judgment. Because she was sorely tried herself, she had great sympathy for the sorrow of others. Let some one tell her a story of grief and Margaret would shift the burden to her own shoulders until she could devise a way out. But if a woman came in with some silly scandal, her reception was a cool one.
Strangely, the frank woman did not make enemies. People believed in her wisdom and they could be themselves with her. There was a young man who might have married the wrong girl, a misunderstood daughter, an aggrieved neighbor, and scores of others to testify to the wisdom of this brown-eyed woman. Young people always found Margaret stimulating. Her interest in them lived through the years of invalidism and into the remoteness of old age. They must do something—be somebody. One of the shortest cuts to these ends, she believed, was through education. Because of her influence, each year the Brigham Young Academy gained in number. These young people could come to "Aunt Maggie Brown" with intimate problems they would not take to their parents. If one of them came to her in search of bread, it is not on record that she gave them a stone.
Grandchildren were growing up now, and there was no place they cared for better. "She was never cross with us," one of her grandchildren tells, "but when she told us to do a thing we did not hesitate." And her children say: "Somehow we did not question Mother's counsel. We might rebel a little, but we knew we would be happier if we observed it." Her greatest achievement—aside from the fineness of her own life—was her children. There was little mediocrity in Margaret; she did not tolerate it in her boys and girls. She had a high opinion of herself and husband, and she reared her family to hold that same self-esteem. Honesty, integrity—these and like qualities must come first. So strongly did she make them a part of her children that they, like herself, could walk with the low and the high and not lose their own ideals. According to her beliefs one could not live fully without service—to family, friends, the needy, the Church and State. It has been said that quiet Pleasant Grove has furnished more than its share of leaders, and Margaret's family are not among the least. One of them has won distinction in the National Council of Women, and all of them have held notable positions in their Church and community life. Margaret was given the rare happiness of seeing her children be the things for which she had aspired. Utah will be a long time in her debt.
As she grew older Margaret worried for fear that she would be a burden on her children. She did not want to live longer than the enduring of her energy. All her life she had read, read, read. Nothing pleased her more than a new book of history and if she could get hold of a volume dealing with the lives of the royal families, she could close her ears to the world. The daily papers were as important to her as her meals. When her eyesight failed her, she stuck pins in the headlines she wished to learn more about, so that her children would know where to begin their reading aloud.
When Margaret, now become Grandma Brown, died at the age of 93, one of the finest and most picturesque of the pioneer figures passed away. It was given to her to see many of her desires realized in her children and grandchildren. Among the latter she will, as the years pass, become legendary. One of the greatest of her gifts was that of loving people and drawing from them the good that they were often unable to express with others. This heritage will be passed on, and with it the strength of Margaret Zimmerman Brown.
Sariah Jane Starr Alleman
In Kent County, England, at the time when a small group of men and women were setting about the business of reforming the Church of England, Dr. Comfort Starr, a well-to-do doctor, became stirred with their fervor and sailed for the new world. He settled in the Plymouth Colony. Years later, his descendants, who still carried his adventurous spirit, moved westward. Sariah Jane Starr was born at Quincy, Illinois, on January 8, 1844, in the days when the young "Mormon" Church was fighting for its right to exist. Six years later Sariah's parents came to Utah by way of ox team.
From Salt Lake the Starr family moved to Springville, even then a green spot in the sagebrush wilderness. They thought, perhaps, to spend the rest of their days close to the verdant mountains and the blue lake, but at October conference, Brigham Young, who had a way of surprising people, called upon the family to settle in St. George, where strong and skilled men were needed.
Sariah Jane, who was seventeen and a woman grown, did not go with them on this shorter journey. There was in Springville at this time a young man by the name of Benjamin Alleman. He had been born in Pennsylvania some nine years earlier than the girl, and had found his way to Springville in 1852. He felt that Sariah Jane should remain in the more settled districts, and on March 24, 1861, they were married.
After her marriage Sariah was left much alone. Down in St. George her father was assisting in the building of the temple. Every year he either came with or sent his wife and daughters to visit at Springville. One of the earliest recollections of the Alleman children is watching the southern road with their mother, who strained her eyes for the red dust clouds of the wagons, journeying from southern Utah.
Five sons and two daughters were born to Sariah Jane and Benjamin. The parents wanted them all to be educated. "We can't give them wealth," Sariah said, "but an education is something that can't be taken from them." But education was a hard problem in those days when people walked miles to borrow a book. Sariah made butter, delivering the fresh yellow pats herself, raised vegetables in the fertile Springville soil and sold them to less provident neighbors. Then she spent hours in the arduous task of weaving carpets so that money could be garnered.
As strenuously as she worked, she did not neglect her home. Her house was immaculate and there were always good things to eat on the Alleman table when other housewives, less resourceful, bewailed the scarcity and sameness of food. It was a common thing for the Relief Society teachers (and others with a lesser excuse) to call upon Sister Alleman about meal time. Sariah, herself a Relief Society teacher, looked forward to the sisters' visits and concocted recipes in order to delight them with new dishes. She had to be her own woman's page and cook book.
She was a tall, handsome woman, with spirited brown eyes and a quick temper which she learned to control. Superstition had no place in her scheme of life, but when she was "impressed" to do a thing, she always found it wisest to go ahead. It is easy to believe that her husband had considerable respect for her first impressions. When he acted on them, he was certain to make a success of his venture.
In her the eternal Eve was not killed by the rigors of pioneer life. She loved pretty clothes, and since she could make them herself, she could not be accused of extravagance in owning them. Her children remember her, ready for church, dressed in her best silk and carrying a black silk-ruffled parasol, lined with white, and over her arm her treasured paisley shawl. When she was only forty, she wore little black bonnets. Women matured young in her day, and while they worked with the vigor of youth, they accepted old age before today's woman will give in to middle years.
Even as she loved to entertain people, she loved to be entertained. It must have been a trial to her who liked to dance, that her husband cared nothing for the pastime. But no woman was ever left on the sidelines in Utah's earlier days and Sariah was not seriously handicapped by Benjamin's non-indulgence. She loved the theatre, too, and played in the town dramatics when she could find time to take a part. It would have been pleasant to know what dramas she liked best and what parts she cared to enact, but no record was kept of them by her or her children.
She was a great reader, sometimes forgetting that the butter must be churned when there was a new book to be had. And she took much pleasure in church going. Her beliefs had been shaped during the days when men and women suffered privations and endangered their lives for religion's sake, and she did not question the tenets she had accepted from birth. With her she carried the serenity that comes of undoubting faith. It was a great source of satisfaction to her that one son filled a mission to Samoa and that another became a school teacher.
She died in 1905, just two years after her husband's death. If we do not remember the drama of pioneer life, her days in the recounting seem quiet and untouched by adventure. But in her childhood she knew hardships as an every day occurrence. Danger that would today change the whole current of our lives, she accepted as part of routine. She fought a winning fight against the elemental moods of nature, and out of a patch of barren earth she helped to make a harmonious home and to rear children whose names are honored throughout the Church. It was part of her compensation that her path was the tranquil one of those who are certain of God's love.
Julia P. Murdock Farnsworth
Because my mother was Stake President of the Relief Society the General Board members were apt to stay at our house during the conferences. I liked these times, a little perhaps for the fried chicken and ice cream and the lessened discipline, but more for the presence of the ladies themselves. Most of them were a little stout with pleasant, quick voices and their skirts rustled beautifully, and the information they gave of the outside world was stimulating and exciting to my rural ears.
One of the Board members I remember best of all. She was Mrs. Julia P. Murdock Farnsworth. While I held her in as much awe as I did the others, yet I was more at ease in her presence. Not so long ago, my mother had told me, Mrs. Farnsworth had lived in the neighboring town of Beaver. In fact I had often seen the tall, red brick house, facing the town square, where the Murdocks still lived, and I had dear friends who spoke of "Aunt Julia" as familiarly as I did of my aunts. Too, her father had been a man whose name we held in honor, and I had heard interesting stories of how Mrs. Farnsworth lived in a huge house in Salt Lake—a city I might visit some day if I were very good.
A good many years passed before I was to see Mrs. Farnsworth again. When I saw her, her beautiful dark hair had lost its color, but her brown eyes were warmer and brighter against their silver background. She was as erect, as gracious, and as great a lady as I had remembered her and it is not often that a child's conception ever finds such realization. About her in the sunlit living room in Struval Park were numbers of new books, histories and biographies, which she was reading. There were her diaries, too, uniform volumes in which she wrote every day. I asked rather tremulously if I might see inside one, but she closed the book and told me with almost a blush that she sometimes misspelled words.
Julia Murdock Farnsworth, born in the bleakness of a Utah County winter (though there was only Fort Provo then), was the only daughter of John R. Murdock, and from her mother, Almira Lott, and her father she acquired an intense patriotism and love of family. Her mother's people had been the Clapps, who had come to the new world in 1630 with no less a person than John Winthrop, and Captain Clapp had been the Keeper of the King's Keys at Boston port for twenty-five years. Her father was of old Vermont stock and had been influenced to join the Church by the brilliant Parley P. Pratt. John R. had been one of the youngest boys to join the Mormon Battalion. When he left San Diego in 1847 he carried on his back a half bucket of wheat—worth more than its weight many times in gold. He was a tall, handsome man, with keen blue eyes and dark brown hair, and when he rode one of his fine horses, ladies who had seen something of the world were apt to sigh and say that he looked like one of the Virginia cavaliers of colonial days.
But John R. had little time for cavalier pursuits. He crossed the plains all of thirteen times and once he set forth alone to carry a personal message from Brigham Young to Colonel Kane. Another time he had to leave young Julia at Christmas time to guide a party of emigrants through the deep snow into Salt Lake. A girl could carry her head high with a father like that!
Julia's girlhood was far different from that of the average young woman's of Utah. Her mother was not robust and upon the only daughter fell the responsibility of the older woman. The father, whose position made it imperative that he do a great deal of entertaining, was also a man of social tendencies and magnetic personality. When Julia was twelve, he moved to Beaver, near Fort Cameron, and the great of the army, the State, and the Church, were entertained at the Murdock home. At one time Julia was hostess to that glamorous person, General Phil Sheridan. Winter times she often went to Salt Lake with her father, who was a member of the territorial legislature. It was on one of these occasions that she danced several times with Ensign Evans, who was later to be Rear Admiral of the United States navy. The salmon colored poplin that she wore that night was long a treasured gown, and it is doubtful if another girl at the dance could vie with her dark beauty and vivacious charm.
Just a stone's throw from the Murdock house was another tall home of somber hue and in it lived young Philo T. Farnsworth. He had been Julia's best friend since she was twelve years old. "We always intended to marry," she said, "and as soon as we were able, we did. There was never any one else for either of us." Julia taught school in Beaver for a year or two until her young man had established himself strongly enough to take a wife, and few people have been happier with each other than they were during the whole of their married life. Marriage only heightened her colorful activities. Her husband was also a member of the legislature, and while they were still young, he left Beaver to manage the Horn Silver mine—a household word then in Utah. Since that day, Mr. Farnsworth's connection with the mines of the West is a part of Utah's history. MOTHERS OF OUR EXECUTIVE OFFICERS -_ might have chosen to have spent her days in social entertainment, for her husband's position, her home, her grace, and charm uniquely fitted her for such a life. But she was too intellectual a woman and her love of religion was too strong. The Julia who had gone by team to Salt Lake in the dead of winter that she might receive her endowments at the time of her marriage was never allowed to change into a woman who viewed life as a light matter. It was during her younger days that the fight for woman's suffrage was the hottest. She followed with interest the careers of Susan B. Anthony, Dr. Shaw, and the Carey sisters, and gave much of her time and resources to the cause. NE of her favorite diversions was writing historical events for the Woman's Exponent. Her last article, if memory serves me right, was called "Patriotic Phases of the Mormon Battalion." She assisted in the present organization of the Mormon Battalion, and is a charter member of the Daughters 361 of the Pioneers. But more than anything she enjoyed her work with the Relief Society. Julia had been a secretary of that organization when she was fifteen, and she was to spend many years traveling about the towns of the intermountain region. Automobiles were almost unheard of in the early days of her Board service. OW, she has retired from active work, but her life is still full and rich. Old friends and relatives are always welcome at her home, and she keeps in touch with the activities of her children and nieces and nephews. Her children and friends are scattered, but she writes to them with the ease and regularity of more quiet days. Her diary, too, she still keeps, and when she will allow it to be read, it will be among the interesting and valuable Utah documents. Her interest in reading—poetry, fiction, and history, has not dimmed. She has a storehouse of rich memories and years ahead made pleasant by the interest she has cultivated throughout her busy years. Snake River By Annie Pike Greenwood O River! Sinister, silver-green, walled high With lava canyons that must give defy To time,—if you had never been, O Snake! Nothing were here the desert's thirst to slake; Only a dream that never could come true, The fields of grain now waving near to you. If—there can be no if-——there is no ' chance! Certain and true the plans of God advance. No chance it was, but only planning clear, Your waters flowing through His fingers here. By Hanson D. Puthuff. "ATUSCADERO" The Glory of the West By Harrison R. Merrill OT all who look upon the N glory of the West really see it until a master has touched their eyes. It is true that all who have unimpaired physical vision see the green of trees, the gold of sunlight, and the forms of mountains, snowcapped, through the mist of summer rains. They may feel elated, lifted by their vision of beauty, but there is glory hiding in the landscapes like a sprite that may not be seen except by those who have been transfigured by an inward genius or a protracted training. MAY of our pioneer fathers wonder now why they had never known the glory of Bryce or - the Grand Canyon, or even of some of our mountain peaks. They saw them all, but in their haste to ride through them or over them or to drive around them they had missed the glory of them, and—they had been without interpreters. AMONG the interpreters, the seers of western glories, few are so gifted as Hanson Duvall Puthuff, the California artist, whose rare and tender paintings of the Grand Canyon have won him the distinction of being one of its greatest interpreters, and whose rugged paintings of mountains have revealed their hidden glories. HANSON PUTHUFF has the genius to see and the art to reproduce what he sees. His paintings are alive and moving. With poetry. His colors sing of the glory of the out-of-doors—of the mystery of whispering trees, of the daring of overhanging bluffs, and of the splendors of western lights and shadows at evening. HIS summer Mr. Puthuff is coming to Utah. He is eager to see the glories of the Wasatch,. Of Utah deserts, Utah trees, and Utah streams. Encamped at the Alpine Summer School of Brigham Young University at Aspen Grove behind Timpanogos, from July 21 to August 22, he will attempt to interpret the Wonder Mountain in oils. Furthermore, he will assist others to interpret in the same media, as he is to teach-classes in art during the five weeks immediately following July 21 when the school opens. TAH artists and others will assemble to sit at the feet of the seer of western glories. Some of them will be seers, too; men and women who have learned to see in artistic unities. Fae West already has its interpreters, but it is to have more of them. We are fortunate who see well only after we have been shown, that the Wasatch Mountains draw the great artists, and that the Alpine Summer School makes them available as teachers. THE RELIEF SOCIETY OF THE CHURCH OF JESUS CHRIST OF LATTER-DAY SAINTS Motto—Charity Never Faileth THE GENERAL BOARD MRS. LOUISE YATES ROBISON MRS. AMY BROWN LYMAN  MRS. JULIA ALLEMAN CHILD - - MRS. JULIA A. F, LUND - Mrs. Emma A. Empey Miss Sarah M. MeLeiland Mrs. Annie Wells Cannon Mrs. Jennie B. Knight Mrs. Lalene H. Hart Mrs. Lotta Paul Baxter Mrs. Cora L. Bennion Mrs. Amy Whipple Evans Mrs. Ethel Reynolds Smith Mrs. Rogannah C. Irvine Miss Alice Louise Reynolds Mrs. Nettie D. Bradford President First Counselor Second Counselor General Secretary and Treasurer Mrs. Elise B. Alder Mrs. Inez K. Allen Mrs. Ida P. Beal Mrs. Kate M. Barker Mrs. Marcia K. Howells Mrs. Hazel H. Greenwood Mrs. Emeline Y. Nebeker Mrs. Lizzie Thomas Edward, Music Director RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Editor - -- - Alice Louise Reynolds Manager - -- - - Louise -Y. Robison Assistant Manager -: - - - - - - - - Amy Brown LyMan Room 20, Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah Magazine entered as second-class matter at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah VOL, XVII JULY, 1930 No. 7 THE presentation of the late pageant, "The Message of the Ages," seems to have transcended the highest hopes and fondest expectations, for we cannot recall - hearing more general approbation of anything than of the recent pageant presented in the Tabernacle to celebrate the Latter-day Saint Centennial. It was a real fulfillment. As evidence of such we quote from an editorial in the Relief Society Magazine of November, 1923. HE editorial is entitled "Art the Agent of Religion" and opens with a statement to the effect that all doors are open to the Roman Catholic religion through the medium of art. Continuing it says: "We find no fault with the Roman Catholic or Greek Catholic churches The Centennial Pageant on this account. They are living up to their opportunities, but what we do suggest is that other religious bodies possessed of great art possibilities turn their attention to this matter and live up to their opportunities also. The traditions of the Latter-day Saints go back for a hundred years; their history is rich in art material; their idealism is intense, There is no reason why they should not turn to the enriching of their own lives and those of their fellowmen by carrying forth the latter-day message through so rich a medium as the various channels of art present." IN this pageant the Latter-day Saint Church has certainly lived up to its opportunities, for the lovely pageant encompassed much. Scripture EDITORIAL and cherished Latter-day Saint hymns form a large part of this noble spiritual creation. It was a marvelous fulfilment, full of brightness, full of hope. In it there was nothing oppressive or offensive. It was a story of deep human interest, carried over through the medium of 365 literature, dramatic art, music, costumes, lighting and scenic effect. After one month's presentation it left a public deeply moved and yearning for its continuance. It will be a highly gratifying and highly satisfying time when it shall be presented again. The Magazine Congratulates Mrs. Evans pee women of Utah are justly proud of the fact that Mrs. Priscilla L. Evans was elected chairman of the plenary session of the Ninth Annual American Red Cross Convention which met in Washington, D, C., from May 5 to 8. Mrs. Evans has the proud distinction of being the only woman ever elected to fill that position. She is the second person west of the Mississippi to. Be called to the chair; a man from California, who was chairman of the San Francisco chapter of the Red Cross, also served in that capacity. MRS. EVANS personality combines a good, clear intellect with an abundance of personal charm. She has had considerable experience in public life, to. Which she has added a study of the law. Her degree from the University of Utah is in law. Her companionship with her husband, Hon. Frank Evans, has meant much to both in an intellectual way. The women throughout this intermountain country have a sense of pride in her election and are conscious of the fact that she did the work in a highly satisfactory way. The Magazine extends its felicitation and congratulations to Mrs. Evans. The Missions The Magazine takes this opportunity of recognizing the receipt of accounts of Centennial celebrations held throughout the missions. Splendid material has reached our office from Great Britain, the Hawaiian Islands, and from the Northern States Mission. The spirit of the centennary was as wide as the organization of the Church is wide. Of special interest has been the highly illustrated articles appearing in the German press, that nation having sent a special representative to Salt Lake to collect material. We learned of two missionaries who chanced to be in the city of Genoa, Italy, on the sixth day of April, and they, like all other Latter-day Saints, gave expression to the general spirit of rejoicing and gratitude that characterized the assemblies of the Saints on that day. | was an event long looked forward to by the Latter-day Saints. It fulfilled more than the highest expectations of many and ministered to the gratification and _ spiritual uplift of all Latter-day Saints. Church members, generally, had the privilege of reading the message sent out by the First Presidency. It was a message of good will to all people of the earth and one that brought hope, joy and rejoicing to all who sensed the spirit that had indited it. Jubilee Boxes Voices from the Past By Annie Wells Cannon PRIL, 1930, marked two A unique and unusual ceremonies, incidents of especial interest to the officers and members of the Relief Society. These occasions were the opening of two "jubilee boxes'' that had been arranged, sealed, and put away for safe keeping for a period of nearly fifty years. MRS. SARAH M. KIMBALL, General Secretary of the Relief Society in 1880, placed in the care of the Church historian, April 1, 1881, a box containing packages and mementos, pictures, newspapers and other matters of note of that time, not to be opened until a designated day which was April 1, 1930. This box was addressed to the one who might happen to be general secretary at that time in the following words: "Hon. Secretary: This is dedicated to you with the fond hope and firm belief you are enjoying many advantages and blessings that were not enjoyed by your predecessors. "May God abundantly bless you and your labors. Sarah M. Kimball, Sec. Relief Society. "Salt Lake City, April lst, 1881." THE other jubilee box was arranged and deposited by the officers of the Utah Stake Relief Society under the direction of Mrs. Margaret T. Smoot, familiarly called "Ma Smoot," in 1881, to be opened April 6, 1930. Mrs. Kimball had invited many prominent men and women to place a package or envelope in her box, each one to be addressed and delivered to, where possible, the oldest living female descendant of the contributor. The columns of the Exponent of April 15, 1881, contained a short story of the placing of the box, and a poem entitled "Dedication of Sarah M. Kimball's Jubilee Box," by Augusta Joyce Crocheron. These two items constituted all the information to be had on the subject. It was therefore with pleased anticipation that there gathered on the morning of April 1, 1930, in the Genealogical Assembly room of the Church Administration Building a goodly company of Church officials, relatives, and friends or descendants of friends of Mrs. Kimball, to listen to a short program and witness the opening of this "jubilee box." ye G those present were President Heber J. Grant who presided at the exercises, Church Historian Joseph Fielding Smith in whose care the box has been for many years, Assistant Church Historians Andrew Jenson and the late Junius F. Wells, President Louise Y. Robison and members of the General Board of Relief Society, Mrs. Julina L. Smith, Mrs. Susa Young Gates, Mrs, Lula Greene Richards, Dr. Ellis R. Shipp, and Zina Y. Card, all of these last named, friends and co-workers with Mrs. Kimball. Several of Mrs. Kimball's family were present, her son Frank D. Kimball and his son Leland, her daughter Elizabeth JUBILEE BOXES Kimball, her oldest grandson Hiram Kimball of Butte, Montana, two granddaughters, Mrs. May Forrester and Miss Florence Kimball, Thomas Seeney, a great-grandson, of Ogden, and his wife and two children representing the third generation, and a granddaughter-in-law, Mrs. Dora Kimball, wife of Roy Kimball. PER briefly stating the purposes of the gathering, President Grant introduced President Louise Y. Robison, who gave a brief sketch of Mrs. Kimball's life and paid a beautiful tribute to her memory. Hon. Franklin S. Richards and Mrs. Annie Wells Cannon both spoke in a reminiscent manner of Mrs. Kimball and her friends and associates in the Relief Society and suffrage work, after which President Grant made the following remarks: President Heber J. Grant I AM not on the program to make any remarks, but in view of what Sister Cannon has said I would like to say that when I was a very small child, being my mother's only child, on more than one occasion, Mother took me to the meetings to which Sister Cannon has referred. I wish to bear my witness here today that at one of those meetings, which was held in the home of Priscilla Staines, and at which Grandma Whitney, as we affectionately called her, Aunt Eliza R. Snow, Zina D, Young, Sister Kimball and my mother were present, Sister Eliza R. Snow just before the meeting closed, talked to me by the gift of tongues. (I was a child playing on the floor, not comprehending what these sisters. Were saying or what they were doing), and Sister Zina D. Young gave the interpretation. 367 MY mother often said to me when I became a young man that if I would behave myself some day I would be one of the apostles. I always laughed at her and told her to get it out of her head, that I had no ambitions in that direction what- | ever, that we had lived in poverty and I proposed to devote my efforts to making some money. She said, "Never mind, if you behave yourself you will some day be an apostle." When I was chosen a member of the Council of the Twelve she asked me if I remembered this meeting in Sister Priscilla Staines' home. I told her, "Yes." "Do you remember anything that was said to you?" I said, "Only one thing, and that is that as Aunt Zina D. Young talked to me as I was playing on the floor she lifted her hand and said that I should become a great big man." (And later, as I had grown rather tall, I often thought of that promise made to me as a little child.). OTHER said, "She did not say any such a thing; she lifted her hand, interpreting a blessing given to you by the gift of tongues, and said that you should become a great big man in the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, and become one of the Twelve Apostles of the Church. That is why I have told you that if you behaved yourself some day you would be an apostle. All blessings are predicated upon obedience. On this occasion Aunt Eliza, by the gift of tongues, blessed each and all of the ward presidents who were present, and Aunt Zina gave the interpretation, and knowing that the promises made to the various sisters had been fulfilled I knew that if you 368 behaved yourself you would some day become one of the apostles." HE then asked me if I also remembered being in the home of Heber C. Kimball and of him picking me up and putting me on a table and prophesying about me. I said, "I do not remember his prophesying; all I remember is that he put me on the table and talked to me, and that he had the blackest eyes I ever saw, and that I was frightened." She said, "He prophesied that you should live to become one of the apostles and become a greater man in the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints than your father was." The presentation of the box to Sister Lund will now be made by the Church Historian, Elder Joseph Fielding Smith. Yet before presenting the box, Mrs, Rosannah C. Irvine was introduced and read the following poem, which was written by Auae Joyce Crocheron, March 30, 1881: Dedication Of Sister Sarah M. Kimball's Jubilee Box Could I the curtain tear away That hides the future from today, And look upon the reader's face, Bent o'er the lines hereon I trace, How strange, perhaps, the group would be, — Who've come this treasure box to see. And very few of us, I fear, Who've placed these little tokens here, Will meet with you upon that day; Dear friends—we may be far away. Should some be there, 'twill not be strange RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE If they have grown so very changed That you will wonder—is it true? And was this portrait really you? For fifty years will steal away The face that now we wear today. But if we do come, never mind—
A seat with the "old folks" we'll find.
If we somewhat "old styled" appear,
In the advanced mental atmosphere,
Ah, let no slighting thought be cast,
Think of the scenes through which we've passed.
Believers, when Truth's golden page
Proclaimed unto a darkened age
God's mandate, to observe his laws,
And give our lives unto his cause;
Through fifty years we've wrought, and still
Give our glad service to his will.
This simile should be enough—
Foundation stones are sometimes rough.
Zion! May thy next Jubilee
Thy Kingdom's power acknowledged see!
May thy fair Temples have a place
In every clime, in every race.
May olden deserts know again
Bright flowing streams and homes of men.
May the oppressed find sweet release,
And warfare end in lasting peace.
To our successors, we bestow
These little tokens, may you grow
Faithful and fearless in the right,
The Gospel be your guide and light.
May you accomplish all that we
Now in our holy calling see.
And may we too be with you there,
Zion's next Jubilee to share.
PRESIDENT JOSEPH FIELDING SMITH then presented the box, saying: "This is the box! When it was deposited in the Historian's Office, Orson Pratt was the historian, and this box has been safely guarded from that day until now. I would like to tell you that Sister Lund and I have already had a little interview with this box. We have not opened it. One brother said he thought that we ought to get some dynamite for Sister Lund. I did not have time to do that, but I think Sister Lund reached the conclusion that we almost needed it. It is my pleasure and duty now to present this box to Sister Lund, the Secretary of the Relief Society, and my responsibility is at an end."
General Secretary Julia A. F. Lund accepted the box with the following words:
"I THINK that you will appreciate that I am fully sensible of the responsibility and the great honor that has come to me in this calling, to be counted worthy to be the successor of Sarah M. Kimball.
"There has been much said, and so well said, that it is not my purpose to add a word except to say that I could conceive of no higher mission in life than to be worthy to follow in the footsteps of my great predecessors in office, and to honor, as far as I am capable, the great work they have done, by doing my best in the office of General Secretary of the great Relief Society organization.
"It now becomes my very pleasant duty to open this jubilee box, and to distribute to those who have a right to claim them, the contents."
PRESIDENT GRANT then proceeded to distribute the small packages and was more than pleased to find one from his mother, Sister Rachel Grant, her own picture with a message on the back. Dr. Ellis R. Shipp and Mrs. Zina Y. Card were present to receive their own deposits. Another contributor who is still living but unable to be there on account of illness was Dr. Romania B. Penrose. Dr. Penrose was assistant secretary to Mrs. Kimball in the Relief Society. There were in all sixty-four depositors, besides pamphlets, newspapers, and clippings.
NATURALLY, interest centered around Mrs. Kimball's package addressed in her own fine writing, "To the Honorable Secretary of the Relief Society, April 1st, A. D. 1930." This envelope contained the picture of Mrs. Kimball, here reproduced, a small photograph of Eliza R. Snow, a clipping from the Woman's Exponent giving the proceedings of the meeting in the Fourteenth Ward, July 17, 1880, when President John Taylor gave very definite and important instructions to the Relief Society and set apart for their particular office President Eliza R. Snow, Counselors Zina D. H. Young and Elizabeth Ann Whitney, and Secretary Sarah M. Kimball. The following interesting letter which explains the whole story of this "jubilee box" was also enclosed:
Salt Lake City, Utah, April 1st, 1881.
"To the President of the Relief Society and the Relief Society Secretary:
"Dear Sisters:
"I HAVE felt impressed to gather the contents of this Box and direct to you for distribution. It has been with me a labor of love. The thought first came to me Apr. 6th, 1880, when the Church Jubilee gathered many old reminiscences and made them interesting. The opening of this Box is expected to be Apr. 1st, 1930, the Grand Jubilee year of the Church. It has been my endeavor to preserve items of historical interest and I have had satisfaction in my labors. I hope those who distribute will feel happified and blessed in the faithful discharge of this trust which comes to them all unsought.
"Many of the items herein inclosed have been instructive to me and much good feeling has been expressed by the depositors. We hope it will please you to send down genealogical and historical items with blessings to the next generation and that the practice will continue through all generations of time.
"We expect your advantages will in all respects be far superior to what we have enjoyed. Our greatest hope is centered in what will be accomplished by our successors.
"I HAVE this day taken to Pres. Taylor's Office the first general report of the stakes of Zion for the approaching conference. God has blessed me and I feel that I will be able to leave more waymarks in official channels than it has been my privilege to find. We are as a Church a growing people and Relief Society labors are becoming more and more understood and appreciated. I send you the design of the first General Society Banner.
"God bless and help you is the prayer of her who writes this.
Sarah M. Kimball.
Request
"We send this link from Eighteen Eighty
To join Time's chain in Nineteen Thirty.
Will our successor, whoe're she may be
Link this with Nineteen Eighty.
S. M. Kimball."
Utah Stake Jubilee Box
The box put away by "Ma Smoot" and her associates was opened April 29, at a meeting of the Utah Stake Relief Society held in Provo, by the president, Mrs. Achsa E. Paxman, and its contents were distributed by Mrs. Paxman and her assistants to the descendants of the contributors. This box contained many interesting items of history, among them an envelope from Milton H. Hardy, principal of the University of Deseret and superintendent of Utah county schools, containing the third annual catalog of the University and rare pamphlets. One package contained samples of cake and candy which were served at "Ma Smoot's" 73rd birthday party. There were poems by O. F. Whitney and a number of pamphlets and histories by Karl G. Maeser. There were 171 packages and letters distributed and Mrs. Paxman has still others to send when she locates the persons entitled to them. The following letter was in the Utah Stake box, a beautiful message to all who read:
"Provo City, March 25, 1881.
"To my children and my grandchildren who may be living when the box which contains this letter shall be opened and the fingers that penned these lines gone back to mother earth:
"I conjure you, my dear children, to be faithful in all your covenants that you make in the Church. Pay all your tithes and offerings with an eye single to the glory of God and be faithful to the end of your days. It is the great love I bear you that causes me to pen you these few lines, the last you will have from me on this earth. It is the voice of your mother and grandmother speaking to you from the grave, calling upon you to live near your God and do all that you can that is left undone for our dead.
"MY father, Isaac Higbee, and my mother whose maiden name was Keziah String, and my grandfather, Isaac Higbee and my grandmother, Sophia Summers Higbee and two uncles, Elias and John S. Higbee, with their families, joined the Church in the early days and went up to Jackson County, Missouri, from where they were driven by the enemies from that county to Clay County, in the same state. There my father left his family and went to Kirtland, Ohio, to work on the Temple. When he returned we moved to Caldwell County, Missouri, where we remained two years and were again driven away by enemies out of the state altogether. This time we went to Illinois where we remained some years and in this state the Prophets were killed. Here we built a Temple. We built ourselves up in many things. Many had good houses and farms and built a city and gave it the name of Nauvoo. It was beautifully situated, lying in the bend of the Mississippi River. But again our enemies were upon us. We were driven out again and found a home in these valleys of the mountains. How long we will be permitted to stop here unmolested is for the future to decide. If we do not live our religion God will scourge us until we do.
"I WAS born in the State of Ohio, Clearmont County, Palestine, in the year 1826, May 20th, and was married to your father and grandfather in the year 1845, December 23rd, and who departed this life in the year 1879, he being one of the First Presidents of Seventies, and in the full faith of the Gospel of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints.
"I COULD mention many things if I thought it necessary in regard to our persecutions and suffering. The first night's sorrow I ever felt was the first night after we were driven out of Jackson County. We camped at the foot of a high bluff and in the night a terrible storm arose and rain came down in torrents and in the dead of night we had to climb the bluff to keep from being swept away by the swelling flood. We took shelter in a cave formed by projecting rocks after driving the wild hogs out. My dear mother had to be carried up, being too ill to help herself, and there sat in her chair, not being able to lie down. Morning came at last as it always does and with the light we resumed our journey and this day crossed the Missouri River and immediately pitched our tent when in a few moments after my mother gave birth to a son, and that night the stars fell from the heaven and our enemies thought the day of judgment had come.
"My father was ordained to the Bishopric under the hands of the Prophet Joseph in Nauvoo. My present home is in Provo City Fourth Ward. J. E. Booth is our bishop of the ward; Abraham Smoot, president of the stake.
"WHEN we came to these valleys with ox teams thirty-three years ago, we crossed over one thousand miles of uninhabited wilderness, save by savages and wild beasts of the desert, but when we came in sight of the beautiful valley of Salt Lake, I wept like a child, and what for—for very joy. It seemed so heavenly and beautiful to me; it seemed as though I stood on holy ground. I was filled with joy unspeakable and full of reverence to my Creator for giving me such a beautiful home.
"MY father was made president of Utah County Stake of Zion in 1849, and in the fall of 1850 his only living son, my brother Joseph, was killed by the Indians, who made war with our people and were afterwards whipped and driven into the mountains. (His was the first grave in Provo City.)
"MY mother's parents, Thomas and Hannah String (Albison being her maiden name) were not in the Church, nor any of their children except my mother and her sister Margaret. The names of their other children were Ann Conover (her husband's name was Robert Conover), and Hannah James, the wife of George James, and Rebecca, the wife of Ephraim James, also Sarah String, Martha String and James String.
"MY father and husband each left a journal and small genealogy which I hope will be taken care of and which is now in the desk of my late husband where I hope it may be found at any future time it may be wanted. I also have some of my father's journals which may be interesting and also my husband's, John McEwan, all of which I hope will be taken care of.
"And now, my beloved children and children's children, down to the latest generation: Be true to yourself and to your religion and to your God, for there is no exaltation outside of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints.
"I might write much more but we are told to be as brief as possible that there may be room in the box for all.
"IF any of my dear children are living when this comes to hand, I hope they will think much of what I have written about, for it is with pure motive. Now do all you can for yourselves, my darlings, and for the building up of the kingdom of God on the earth, and may God bless you all, is the prayer of your loving Mother and Grandmother,
Amanda M. McEwan.
To her loving children and grandchildren to the latest generation:
"The names of my great grandparents on my mother's side are Josiah Albison and Hannah, his wife, Father's I do not know."
NAMES listed on envelope containing the letter: "Children—Mary Jane Wilkins, William McEwan, Amanda M. Knight, John H. McEwan, Isaac H. McEwan, Rosilla J. Haws, Eleanor McEwan, Grandchildren—Ellen Wilkins, Oscar Wilkins, Jr., Minerva Wilkins, Mary A. Wilkins, Zina Wilkins, Lydia Minerva Knight, Raymond Knight, William Knight, A. Inez Knight, William McEwan Haws; Jubilee Box, Care Margaret T. Smoot, Stake Relief Society President, Provo, Utah."
SUCH occasions bring to mind many memories of the past and create questioning thoughts for the future. The gifts, letters, pictures of fifty years ago may seem out of date today and so will our treasure boxes when opened fifty years hence seem queer and obsolete to the generation of that period, 1980. Who of us, who today gaze reverently on the pictured faces of the past and read the precious lines written by dear hands, will be among those or represented among those who will receive a message in the days to come, I wonder.
[ADVERTISEMENT]
Summertime Modernization Time
Have your home made modern now before the late summer and fall rush starts. The cost of Natural Gas Modernization is surprisingly low—and twenty-four months to pay for the equipment if you wish. Enjoy complete Natural Gas service for automatic cooking, water heating, refrigeration, incineration and house heating.
CALL IN FOR A FREE ESTIMATE
The more Natural Gas you use the less you pay per cubic foot.
UTAH GAS & COKE CO.
Serving Salt Lake City
OGDEN GAS COMPANY
Serving Ogden
LAYTON
FARMINGTON
BOUNTIFUL
CENTERVILLE
MAGNA
WASATCH GAS CO.
Serving
KAYSVILLE
MIDVALE
SANDY
MORGAN
GARFIELD
MURRAY
Mary Birch Miller, a Gold Star Mother
By Cora Carver Ritchie
When that great commoner, William Jennings Bryan, made his last speech in Twin Falls, he told a story about a little white flower. He said he was viewing the grandeur of the Snake River Canyon, with its precipitous walls of molten lava, noting especially its barren, burnt appearance, when his eye glimpsed a small white flower, growing apparently from the very rocks. He marveled at plant life being able to exist at all in such desolate barrenness, much less to thrive and bring forth a beautiful blossom. He was so impressed with the bravery of the little white flower that he decided to reach it. After several perilous efforts he picked the flower.
AS he gazed at its white purity and smelled its dainty fragrance, the thought that came to him was this: if a flower dared to grow and do its best unseen, little knowing the reason, struggling amid desolate hardships to thrive and turn out the best for the world, with only the sun and unheeding river as passers-by, how much more man should strive to do his part, to put forth the very best that is in him.
THAT little white flower had filled its place on earth, little knowing that by its tenacity and beautiful giving it had touched one great heart. If it could feel, how proud it would be to be noticed and held and admired and maybe it would respond to the tear that fell from that kindly eye.
When I first noticed Sister Mary Birch Miller, I thought again of the little white flower. The firm grasp of her little calloused hand, the kindly smile and the wrinkled face, the fast greying hair, and the whole fragility of her little body, gave an impression of a flower that had dared to do its best in spite of hardships.
SISTER MILLER is an exception to the rule that a man is not without honor save in his own country, as her co-workers, neighbors, friends, and especially the children, all express the same love and respect for her. One man said, "She is a little giant." She does every task faithfully, quietly, meekly, so full of humility that many pass her by not seeing. She carries a basket, full of cookies, jelly, or it may be fresh buttermilk, or wonders from her own garden. That basket seems a veritable part of her makeup. No one knows just who will be the recipient.
THE praises of her cookies have been sung in ward poems, plays, papers and songs. Their fame began when she noticed President Kirkman could not eat at the socials as others, on account of his health, so Sister Miller brought her cookies which proved so wholesome and delicious to him. One Sunday, Bishop Roy Wood read a letter from a mission president. One line said, "We are releasing and sending home to you one of the very best missionaries we have ever had, Elder Woodruff Miller."
THE bishop then reached out his hand and touched a beautiful vase of flowers, small but dainty. He said, "Sunday after Sunday, winter and summer, a little vase of flowers has been placed on this rostrum. Sister Miller raised the flowers in her garden during the summer. When winter came she made them bloom in spite of the cold. But this year, for the first time, no blooms came. Undaunted, she arranged foliage and placed some lovely artificial flowers to give the effect of reality. All willing service, because of the love in her heart to spread happiness. These flowers speak more to me than you have any idea."
ALL the love, tenderness and gratefulness that one human could hold was uttered in that bishop's words. Many a heart responded. A tear came to the eyes of more than one. Just a little thing you say. True, but what are the little things? The important part of a great composite.
In February, 1930, an unusual party was given in honor of two of Sister Miller's boys—a farewell for Brother Eleezer Miller who was leaving for a mission to Mexico, and a welcome home party for Brother Woodruff Miller, who had just returned from the North-central States Mission.
SISTER MILLER was at her happiest. When asked why she wanted her boys to go on missions she answered, "I like to have them all go on missions. It's a good school, the very best there is. I have one more boy to go." That is the fifth son of the Millers to go on a mission. That is why the little mother was so happy. That night came the realization of long years of planning, scheming and sacrifice on the part of Brother and Sister Miller. These parents have made the idea of a mission imperative in the lives of their sons, so that when the call came each was ready. Only a little thing, you say. Perhaps for some who need not count the cost, but Sister Miller has always been a real pioneer. She has always had to struggle. Life for Brother and Sister Miller has been one long battle with the elements and with life itself, and now when she might enjoy some of the luxuries of life she is willing to give them all so that the money that comes into her home may be spent in the mission field. When asked the hardest thing she has had to do, Brother Miller spoke up quickly: "Lots of hard work and nothing to eat."
SISTER MARY BIRCH MILLER was born in Coalville, Utah, sixty-five years ago. Her parents were Patriarch Richard Birch and Mary Ann Hale. She married William P. Miller and raised three of his children and has had six boys and one girl of her own. All have been baptized in the Church. Most of them have done temple work. Five boys have filled missions. All keep the Word of Wisdom. They all pay a full tithing. What a record for a family unit!
Brother Miller, the father, set the example in ward teaching. Last summer he left his ranch and came fifty miles to attend his monthly ward teaching, not only doing his own but making up several other districts. For six years Sister Miller and her companion, Sister Annie Atkinson, have visited every home in their district every month, thereby gaining 100%. They walked always, through summer's heat, winter's snows, biting winds and mud. Only a little thing, you say. But what a mighty task would have been accomplished had every Relief Society sister done as much!
Brother and Sister Miller lived in Kanosh, Utah, in the early settlement of that place. They endured all the hardships incidental to pioneer life. She said, "We thought we were rich if we had a potato and a slice of bacon. We lived on pig weeds mostly, but they are good weeds. I bottled some for winter greens."
BROTHER MILLER helped dig the canal at the foot of the big clay mountain. It was discouraging work, for as fast as it was dug, washes from the mountain filled it up again, but this was their only drinking water. It was so impure Sister Miller boiled it. She always kept a bucket of boiled water on hand, not only for her own family but for all the school children. Doubtless many grown-ups today will remember that cup of boiled water. Only a little thing, after all,—yes, but mighty powerful if it saved one child from typhoid.
MANY were sick due to poor water and lack of food, so Sister Miller began her nursing career. The only doctor of the town sent her to care for patients he could not reach. She nursed many back to health. At one time she saved a sick Italian child after the doctor and the mother had given it up. The frantic mother had placed the candles by the child's bedside and the rosary had been said, when to the great surprise of all, Sister Miller brought the child back from the very jaws of death. Through all her child-bearing and nursing, she has been a constant worker in the Relief Society. At different times she has been counselor, teacher and president, which office she held thirteen years, always unassuming, quiet and efficient.
AFTER moving to Idaho, she was called on for a sacrifice that tests the very strongest. While homesteading in the mountains on the line between Nevada and Idaho, James Earl, her sixteen-year-old son was kicked by a horse. He had to be taken fifty miles to the nearest doctor. After a day and two nights of intense suffering God called him and he left his brave little mother.
A STILL greater trial was to come to her. When the finest young men in America left for overseas during the World War, Gilbert Miller, her oldest son, was one of the first to go. In that famous battle of the Argonne on the first day of the battle, Gilbert was among the first to go over the top. He was killed with a machine gun on the very eve of that battle, September 26, 1918. When no word came, no news of her boy until November 15, 1918, she was prepared to hear of his death, for in her heart she knew he had paid the supreme sacrifice. Gilbert her firstborn, her pride, her joy, big, strong, splendid, clean,—she was calm, knowing his reward was certain. Now, after more than ten years, she will see through tear-dimmed eyes the white cross No. 68, that marks his resting place.
SISTER MILLER went to France with the first contingent of War Mothers. While she is away, the father and other boys are carrying on. One of them said, "We are all good cooks; with sister busy with her five children, and Eleezer on his mission, we will take turns doing the housework." I wondered! I marveled! That little woman had trained her boys for every emergency, at home, in church, in society, in the mission field, aye, even in battle; all united, all loved and respected in the communities in which they live, all filling every task as kindly and efficiently as their mother before them.
SISTER MILLER lives one mile from the church; she attends regularly and walks most of the time. Last summer, besides caring for her big, husky boys, canning fruit and doing all her own housework, she nursed three mothers during their confinement. She is known as an expert nurse. Her education has been self-acquired.
SHE loves the new modes of living and travel and was thrilled when some friends took her for an airplane ride. She saves all the extra money she can, going without many desired things, to send to the temples to have work done for her relatives. Her greatest desire after sending her sixth son on his mission is to spend the remainder of her life working in the temples.
LIKE hundreds of other members throughout this great Church, she is willing to give, to sacrifice, aye, to lay down life itself for those in need. As she trudges bravely over the miles, her precious basket on her arm, with the wind whipping her skirts about her fragile body, we again think of the little white flower, giving forth the best, thinking little of reward, modest, shy, shrinking from the public eye. Who knows but the eye of the Greatest Commoner sees and is well pleased and some day will reach forth and pluck the dainty, white blossom and marvel?
If By Dying
By Arthur James Bowers
If by living I can help one soul to right,
Then let me live;
But if by dying I can show one heart the "Light",
Then let me die.
For oft' a death can change what life cannot,
And meatless sorrow bring what we had sought.
Bathsheba Blackburn Grundy
IT is a pleasant summer afternoon and a plump, serene woman, scarcely looking her three-score and thirteen years because of her black hair only faintly streaked with grey and her bright grey eyes, is rocking in an easy chair and talking to her daughter. Already the afternoon shadows are purpling the walls of Mt. Timpanogos, as the older woman glances from them to her daughter, who is writing in a church record.
"MY chief interest?" Mrs. Bathsheba Blackburn Grundy pauses in her rocking, "Why, religion, of course. What else could it be?" And she turned again to the darkening shadows.
AND truly it was. Religion was early a ruling power in her life—not the narrow religion of her day that read the scriptures on Sunday afternoon in the dim light of drawn shades, but that religion of Christ's which is to visit the fatherless in their affliction and to keep one's self unspotted from the world.
NATURALLY, religious thoughts were early fostered in her. Had not her father made the ox team journey of 1849? And her mother, Mary Lane, had been left an orphan at fourteen, on the Plains, by the ravaging cholera. It was this same Mary who two or three years later made the everlasting covenant with Elias H. Blackburn, even then an ardent young man displaying the powers that were to make Patriarch Blackburn revered throughout the Church.
SCARCELY was their honeymoon over when he was called to colonize Provo on a clear little river fringed with willows and Indian tepees. But the thoughts of the first home remained with him, and one day he and Mary made the two days journey to visit old friends in Salt Lake, George A. Smith and his good wife, Bathsheba. The journey proved too strenuous for young Mary, and that night she gave birth to a premature girl who must needs be christened Bathsheba, "because she was born in my home."
YET the frail child grew into a sturdy girl in whom piety was engendered young. When she was but two years old she was sitting on the hearth watching the bright tongues of flame leap about a black kettle of steaming water for the evening meal. Without warning the rod that held the kettle collapsed without warning, and the scalding water fell over the helpless child. All the medical aid which the pioneer community could afford was summoned, but Bathsheba continued to writhe in agony. As a last resort the girl was taken to Grandmother Goff, who used her homemade salve and called in the elders. Within a few days the child played about the cabin—unscarred.
NOT much later her father was called by Brigham Young to fulfill a mission in England. Then followed periods when Bathsheba had nothing to eat save bread, and very little of that. But they must rely on Providence, and one night a young man in some way connected with the family brought rice, all the rice the family could eat. The little girl lived happily for days in memory of that sumptuous meal.
SOON after Elias Blackburn's return from England his old spirit of pioneering flamed. This time he moved his family to Minersville, a journey of many days in a covered wagon with Bathsheba and her brothers and sisters starting ahead, barefooted.
IN Minersville troubles were only beginning. Bathsheba, still barefoot, ran through the brush, gathering bits of wool, which she was later to wash, card, spin, and make into a dress for winter. Then there is another eating story that is a classic in its way—the story of a pregnant mother who stooped to grand larceny in order that she might not starve.
FATHER BLACKBURN had garnered a few potatoes for seed purposes and buried them deep in the ground beneath layers of earth, straw and sticks. One night when he was gone, Mary, not so fresh and buoyant now, kept Bathsheba awake after the other children had gone to bed. Mary gave the girl some kind of spade and told her to dig until she found the potatoes. In the light of the dying embers the mother ate two roasted potatoes and the girl one. "I'm starving to death, and there aren't enough for the children," Mary had whispered when her girl had looked wide-eyed at the prizes. Years later, Mother Grundy told her children, "That potato was the best thing I ever ate."
DUTIES naturally developed early, and at sixteen or seventeen she was married, on December 9, 1872, to one Clayton Grundy in the Endowment House at Salt Lake by Daniel H. Wells. She made her vows in a white lawn dress of which she was inordinately proud. Her trousseau consisted of a bed, two pillows, and some quilts.
FROM then on the girl was lost in the pioneer woman. With the increasing duties of her household, she assumed new Church responsibilities. She was first vice-president of that greatly discussed experiment, the Retrenchment Society; then ward president of the Relief Society until Clayton decided that Loa, over in Wayne County, was a better place in which to try his fortune.
IT was here in Loa that she was to spend the most pleasant years of her life and really to find herself. The first position Loa offered her was that of ward teacher, but in a decade or so, after serving as president of the Y. L. M. I. A., she was asked to head the stake Relief Society. This position she kept for twenty-one years—until May, 1926, less than two years before her death. So zealously and faithfully had she worked that she became, not merely the most loved woman of her town, but she received also the distinction of being declared the best stake president in the whole of Zion.
THERE was not a baby born in Loa, nor a sick child, nor a death bed where her soothing hands and serene presence did not minister. "When we would waken in the morning and call her," her daughter said, "we would go wild with joy if we found her home." Day after day, when the burden was too heavy for her children, she would carry food and clothing to the dark homes of suffering, often waiting for the cover of darkness lest the town should know to whom charity was being measured.
YET even as she worked for her people, she found time for her family and herself. It was a common occurrence to see her at midnight, mending and cleaning clothes so that the children could go decently clad to school and church. Of all the Church magazines, the Era was her favorite; she never neglected the reading of it. Printed sermons held a special joy for her. After she died, her daughter found great bundles of them, mostly clipped from the Deseret News; and there was one placed in a letter to be sent to a son in distant Canada.
NEITHER did she neglect the temporal side. She liked good books, being especially fond of the drama. Movies failed to interest her, but she could always be tempted from home by a play she thought worthy. As a girl she liked to dance and attend parties—a social desire that never left her. She was willing at any time to help in the ward organizations. It was her recreation, her avocation, to do this; almost to the last she attended the Loa socials.
BETTER times had come to the Grundy family; and, luckily, the bleakness of pioneer years had not killed her love for the beautiful. We can see her now—a plump, matronly woman with kind gray eyes and energetic walk—going about her civic and church duties in a neat, black silk dress, with a fine lace collar, gold brooch, and watch. In her wardrobe always were a "dressy hat," a pair of smooth kid gloves, and fine black shoes. She believed women should keep not only their minds but their bodies attractive.
IN keeping with the cheerful tenor of her life were her last days. Death held no fears; it was the great adventure for which she had lived her seventy-three years. During her illness in September, 1928, just a few months after her husband's death, she discussed the matter calmly with her children. "You are none of you to weep, neither are you to harbor sad feelings," she told them. And when the children of the town came to bring her flowers, she smiled and told them goodbye as if she were going on to the next town. The hymns she chose for her funeral were like her days: "Come, Come, Ye Saints," "Come, Let Us Anew Our Journey Pursue," and "I'll Go Where You Want Me To Go, Dear Lord." On that bright September day when she died, one of the finest women of the old order passed on. Relying on faith, she had lived all her life without rest. She believed implicitly in the doctrines of the Church and the teaching of its leaders. She often said that she strove for the happy medium in all things; but in the hearts of the people with whom she lived there was no medium—for she had reached the heights.
A Character Sketch of Helen Gibson Ellsworth
By An Old Friend
ONE of the unique characters of early pioneer days in the West was found in the wholehearted, genial personage of Helen Ellsworth, of Lewisville, Idaho—lovingly known to her many relatives and friends as Aunt Nell.
BORN on the plains, cradled for ten days in a moving prairie schooner, she filled a long, happy, useful career, and was finally graduated with honors from the school of life, at the age of eighty-one years. Through all the years she was a sturdy representative of the God-fearing mothers in Israel, mothers who, in the pioneer days, braved the dangers of the wilderness, and the trails of the sun-baked desert, to establish in the tops of the mountains an empire after God's own heart.
PRACTICALLY all of her life was spent on the frontier. Her story is largely the story of all pioneer mothers of that early day. To them life was one round of work and thrift and duty. They performed their tasks willingly and cheerfully. Having put their shoulders to the wheel they scorned the thought of turning back.
Helen Ellsworth's parents, Henry Elliot Gibson and Martha Eliza Gibbs, were married at Batavia, New York, on January 1, 1848. In the spring of the same year, on April 20, they joined Eliza's parents, and began with them the long tedious journey across the continent.
ELIZA GIBSON was the last child in a family of twenty-two children. She was somewhat frail and not in the sturdiest of health when the journey was begun. So it was a strenuous and nerve-racking undertaking for her. The roads were rough and in places almost perilous. There were long stretches of desert country to be crossed, dangerous rivers to be forded, steep canyons to be passed through, and untold hardships to be met. But this brave young wife was willing to endure all of these things in order to reach Zion and make her home with the Latter-day Saints. Having embraced the gospel, she was prepared to pay the price for her precious gift.
Day after day for five weary months they toiled on across the trackless waste. Then one Saturday night they made camp on the Black Fork River, between Green River and Echo Canyon, in what was then called the Territory of Wyoming.
AS was the custom of the Saints, they rested during the Sabbath day. And it was here, early Sunday morning on September 10, 1848, that little Helen was born—a blessing indeed to gladden the heart of her tired mother. That mother's long waiting days were over, crowned with a gift of joy. But her journey was not ended. For ten more days the invalid mother lay on her pillow, rocked by the swinging and jostling wagon, as the caravan wended its way across the gray prairie.
AND so it was that Helen Gibson Ellsworth began her career in life. They arrived in Salt Lake Valley on September 20, 1848, having traveled with a company of Saints under the direction of Heber C. Kimball. Helen's parents made their first home at the Old Fort in Salt Lake City. Later they moved into the Seventeenth Ward. When Helen was four years of age they located at Mill Creek, where her father operated a lath and shingle mill. From there they went to Ogden and later resided at Willard. While in Willard, Helen attended her first school, and studied her lessons by the light from the fireplace.
WHEN she was eleven years of age her parents moved to Richmond in Cache Valley. At the age of ten she was thought to be too old to play with dolls, so she gave her dolls to her little sisters; but she learned to sew for herself by making doll's clothes. When fourteen years of age, she cut and sewed by hand a calico dress for herself. It was a tedious task to hem the full skirt and all the yards of ruffles by hand, but she finished it in two days.
BEING the oldest child in a family of ten, many household cares devolved upon her. Her mother's failing health gave her still more responsibility. From the time she was fifteen years of age she had the care, not only of the household service, but also of the children and her invalid mother. Her household duties were somewhat more strenuous than those of our girls of today. She knit and spun and wove and helped to make candles. She cooked over a fireplace and sewed by hand.
WHEN twenty-one years of age, she went on a visit to Salt Lake City. It was at this time that she first met Brigham H. Ellsworth, a grandson of President Brigham Young. One month from the time of their first meeting they were married in the old Endowment House at Salt Lake City. The ceremony was performed by Daniel H. Wells, on December 27, 1869.
THEY bought a little home at Richmond, and their first child, a daughter was born there. This child was President Brigham Young's first great-granddaughter. A few years later Brigham and Helen moved to Salt Lake City, where he worked in the machine shops. Later he worked in the saw mill at Aspen Canyon, Wyoming. In 1882, in company with R. F. Jardine and family, they came as the first pioneers to Lewisville, Idaho. Here they settled permanently. Again they had taken their stand on the frontier of civilization, but their dauntless spirits knew no fear. They put their plow to the furrow and their shoulder to the wheel.
BACK in Utah were three little mounds, sacred to the loving memory of little Johnny and Owen and Biddy. But that was only another sacrifice to be placed on the altar in the reclaiming of the frontier. Helen, or Aunt Nell, as she was now lovingly called, proved herself a true helpmate. She was strong in body and in spirit, fearless, uncomplaining, and always full of good cheer.
IN this new settlement there were roads and canals to be made, houses and fences to be built, land to be cleared of sagebrush and to be cultivated, wells to the dug, and pests to be fought.
WHILE the homes were being made ready, Aunt Nell and the others lived in tents. As fast as her husband could cut down the logs for their own house, their eight-year-old son dragged them with a horse from the timber near by. Aunt Nell peeled off the bark and put them in the sun to dry. Later, she helped her husband to hoist them into place. By the time the roof was on the house, winter was near at hand. So she helped to daub the house with a plaster of thick mud. When it was finally finished they moved in on October 14. That night six inches of snow fell. As they kindled their fire and cooked their supper, their hearts rejoiced. Aunt Nell has often said that she never appreciated anything like she did that house. It was truly a place of refuge and of rest, and their home for many years.
OF Aunt Nell's eleven children, four were born in Idaho. Three small children were buried in Utah, and her youngest and oldest daughters were buried in Idaho. This latter death was an exceptionally hard trial for Aunt Nell, but she was brave in her own sorrows and ever ready to forget herself in order to help others.
SHE was strong and ambitious, and ready to do her share of the world's work. She made butter and cheese and soap, and raised chickens and garden produce. She usually had her windows full of blossoming flowers. Before fruit was raised in the valley, she used to take the children to the wooded river banks and gather wild currants and dry them for winter use. Later she bottled her own fruit and vegetables. She made quilts and rugs and wove five thousand yards of carpet on her own loom.
WITH so many tasks to perform indoors and outside, one would wonder how she ever found time to help others. Yet she was known throughout the little settlement for her many deeds of mercy. She visited the sick and the needy, she ushered in the living and helped to lay away the dead. For thirty-eight consecutive years she was a visiting teacher in the Relief Society, and she always found time to visit the newcomers in the ward and give them a word of welcome and good cheer. She was the sort of neighbor that the scriptures tell us about—a good Samaritan.
HER husband, Brigham H. Ellsworth, died November 19, 1922, leaving Aunt Nell to finish the journey alone. For fifty-three years they had lived and worked together through all kinds of hardships. Forty years of this time they had spent in Lewisville. B. H. Ellsworth was himself a very remarkable character. His work, like Aunt Nell's, had been almost indispensable to the Lewisville pioneers. He was a blacksmith and a natural mechanic. Not only could he mend a clock, or a farm implement, or shoe a horse, but he also built headgates and bridges, and caskets for the dead. His genius did not end in mere handicraft, for he was dentist and surgeon as well, for the town. He extracted teeth, set broken limbs, and sewed up bad cuts; in fact, he performed first aid service for all who came to him. He did not profess to be a surgeon, and made no charge for his work. He merely did the work that came to his hands to be done, and counted it part of his experience as a pioneer. Both he and Aunt Nell performed their work in a whole-souled generous manner, Their lives were truly lives 384 of service to their fellows. They were born to their work. The atmosphere of the desert, and the influence of that mighty pioneer Brigham Young, seemed ever to overshadow them, and hallow the work of their hands. AFTER Aunt Nell had passed the three-quarter century mark she was still strong in body and young in spirit. She lived alone in her Idaho home during the summer months; and spent most of her winters in Salt Lake City, doing endowment work for her dead in the Salt Lake Temple. She attended to all her household cares and took a pride in paying her living expenses by the labor of her own hands. She was fearless and independent and practical. Any new truth she heard and believed she immediately applied to her own life for her pleasure and benefit. EVEN in her last years she was never idle. She made quilts and rugs and paper flowers and did fancy knitting and embroidery. She watered and tended her orchard and garden and picked bushels of fruit every year. O*E of the most unique examples of thrift she performed the summer she was seventy years of age. She went about her orchard and ditches and gleaned all of the blossoming alfalfa she could find. 'She cut it with her butcher knife, let it lay and cure in the sun, and then carried it in her kitchen apron to the stack. It made fine hay and netted her a good price. The summer she was seventy-six years of age she planted one thousand strawberry plants, and later pumped water and carried it in buckets to get the plants started. MOST of her reading and study was from the standard works RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE of the Church and the Church magazines. She gained a testimony of the truthfulness of the gospel at the age of twenty-seven. And all - through the years it was a living flame in her heart and a guide to her feet. She bore eleven children, six of whom are living today. She has fifty-seven grandchildren, and twenty-four great-grandchildren, all of whom hold her in great respect. IT was a very fitting and beautiful thing that Aunt Nell was able to spend her last days in work for the dead, having already given her whole vigorous young womanhood in service to the living. Wherever she went, Aunt Nell had loving, appreciative friends. Her busy, cheerful, honest life was at once an inspiration and a power for good. Her fun-loving spirit helped her over many a hard place in the road, and her courage and supreme faith brought her peace when she reached the end of the long bright trail of life. WHEN I get to a place where I can't get up and walk off and do the work that needs to be done, I'll feel that my life is finished," she said, "and I hope I can pass on," This wish was granted and her passing was certainly beautiful. She ate breakfast with the family Sunday morning and urged her daughter to let her assist with the morning's work, Later she lay down to rest. She had not been feeling well for a few days. Before six o'clock Sunday evening, she had passed on to the great reward for which she had paid in full measure. May her children ever cherish in loving memory the principles of truth and beauty after which her generous, whole-souled life was patterned. Reminiscences of a Pioneer From the Life of Juliette Stowell Perry, a Veteran of the Relief Society By Alice Morrill On November 29 last, Sister Juliette Stowell Perry was ninety-four years old. A member today of the Relief Society of Maeser Ward in Ashley Valley, she was counselor to the president of the first Relief Society in Naples Ward of this Valley. On account of a fractured hip, caused by falling upon the doorstep of her home nearly three years ago, Sister Perry is now bedfast. SINCE she has had to give up homemaking, she has lived with her daughter, Sister Etta Caldwell, of Maeser. This dear old lady never complains, and is very grateful for the kindly ministrations of her daughter's family. Faith and patience halo her presence, and she has an encouraging smile and word of cheer for all who visit her. Ciety, held their regular meeting with Sister Perry. She gave a reminiscent talk and recited for the visitors a beautiful poem, which she has retained in memory.* Asked where she ob. Tained copies of poems during her life of exodus and travel, Sister Perry answered: "They came to me in various ways. I remember clipping one from an old Illinois newspaper that I found wrapped around some belongings of. Ours when we were camped at Council Bluffs. I was always on the lookout for scraps of good literature to memorize." Grandma Perry remembers many of these. When requested, she recites them for her children, grandchildren, or friends. When her visitors inquired about reminiscences, she related the following: On one occasion the Relief Society, Society, held their regular meeting with Sister Perry. She gave a reminiscent talk and re- cited for the visitors a beautiful poem, which she has retained in memory.* Asked where she ob tained copies of poems during her life of exodus and travel, Sister Perry answered: "They came to me in various ways. I remember clipping one from an old Illinois newspaper that I found wrapped around some belongings of ours when we were camped at Council Bluffs. I was always on the look- out for scraps of good literature to memorize." Grandma Perry remembers many of these. When requested, she recites them for her children, grandchildren, or friends. When her visitors inquired about reminiscences, she related the following WHEN Mother and Father joined the Church, they were living upon a farm in Westfield, Chautauqua County, New York. Mother was zealous for her religion and had a strong desire to gather with the Saints. Mother and nine children arrived at Nauvoo just after the Prophet was killed, and just *See poem at end of article. When the 'wolf hunt' was on. The mob," Sister Perry explained, "had determined upon 'Mormon' extirpation and had organized gangs to go through the country adjacent to Nauvoo and annihilate the 'Mormons' who were living on farms and were unprotected. SOON all the brethren and sisters came fleeing into Nauvoo. There were nights and nights when Mother's floor was covered with the beds of the refugees." Of Nauvoo in the days of its glory, Sister Perry said: "When we were in Nauvoo during that first year, it was like a garden. Everything imaginable had been brought and planted. But after that there was trouble enough, and sorrow, in Nauvoo the Beautiful. We stayed in the city until two days before the mob came in and took possession. Many of the Saints were at Mother's house while men went out trying to drive back the raging mob; but it could not be halted. "I saw a man come running—I can remember his words: 'Our boys are beaten. Make good your retreat!' Whenever word came to us of what was happening round about, the Temple bell would ring. Mother tied up our things in pack- 386 ages and kept them ready, so that when the time came that we had to go, we could carry them in our hands. I SHALL never forget that night. For a time it was still as still. Mother stood and listened. We could see the mob passing along the road. Our friends took refuge in a corn field. One man, who had been our neighbor, helped Mother as we moved down to the river bank. We didn't know what would happen next. Some were being ferried across to the other side of the river, but after awhile it got so cold that we were taken across on the ice.
"BROTHER WILLIAM GOULD went out to where his father owned a farm in Knox County, Illinois, and got some teams. Then we were taken there and located upon a piece of land, where we lived for one year, raising one good crop. After that, with the help of friends, we worked our way, little by little, until we got to Council Bluffs, where we stayed four years. When Bishop Edward Hunter came back from 'the Valley' to gather up the poor, scattered Saints, we were still living there, in 'George A's Hollow.'
"We left our homes on the 15th of June and arrived in 'the Valley' on the 2nd of October. Upon arriving at the mouth of Emigration Canyon, I recall my feelings when I first beheld in 'the Valley' the settlement that is now Salt Lake City. The buildings, even then, were very respectable.
"Oh! The people in those days were kind. I recall an incident—one of many—that illustrates their kindness. We had just moved into an unfinished frame house. The roof had not been completed and the first snow-storm sifted through. One morning one of our neighbors, who was working on the Temple, passed by on his way to work. Noticing that no smoke was rising from the chimney, he came to the door and found us still in bed with a coverlet of snow. 'Sister Stowell, this will never do,' he said, 'Go down to my place. Don't stop for getting breakfast. When I come home tonight, I'll see what can be done.' I'll always remember the kindness of Brother Norton Jacobs. We stayed with his family and ate at his table the rest of the winter, Mother helping all she could with the work.
"AFTERWARD, we settled in Provo, and I married William Howard Perry, a young man whom I met in Salt Lake. We moved to Lynn later, and to Cache Valley still later. In 1880 we settled in Ashley Valley. We were there in the early settlement of the Valley, when no Relief Society was even organized. We had a family of ten children—seven girls and three boys."
Sister Perry's memory is good, and she converses intelligently on many subjects. She reads newspapers, all the Church books, and the Church magazines. Since her hip was broken, she has cut and pieced nine sets of quilt blocks, knit lace for six pairs of pillow slips, made two pairs of pillow slips, and sewed fifty pounds of carpet rags. She is happy to think she still can work.
The following is one of her poems:
SILENT AND LONE
Silent and lone, silent and lone!
Where, tell me where, are my little ones gone?
Once they were playing about at my knee.
In their frolicsome mirth, their boisterous glee,
They would upset the table, misplace the chairs,
Scattering their playthings, all unawares,
Till sometimes I sighed for the good time to come
When they all would be big and would go out from home.
Silent and lone, silent and lone!
Where, tell me where, have my little ones gone?
No little faces to wash on this night;
No little troubles for Mama to right;
No tender blue eyes to be sung off to sleep,
No tiny playthings to put up to keep;
No little trundle bed brim full of rollick,
Calling for Mama to settle the frolic.
No little clothes to be hung on the rack,
No tales to tell, and no nuts to crack;
No soft little lips to press me with kisses—
Oh, such a sad, lonely evening as this is!
Silent the house with no little ones near
To startle a smile or chase back a tear;
No little voices to shout with delight,
"Good night, dear Mama, good night, good night!"
Silent and lone, silent and lone!
Where, tell me where, have my little ones gone?
They are out where the great rolling trade stream is flowing;
Out where new firesides with love light are glowing;
Out where the graves with their lifehope is sleeping,
Not to be comforted, weeping, still weeping;
Out where the hill-tops of science are blending,
Up mid the cloud rifts, up, up, still ascending!
Seeking the sunshine that rests on the mountain,
Drinking, yet thirsting, for aye at the fountain;
Out in life's thoroughfare, all of them moiling,
Out in the wide world, striving and toiling,
Little ones, loving ones, playful ones, all
That went when I bade, and came at my call,
Have you deserted me? Will you not come
Back to your mother's arms—back to your home?
Useless my cry is. Why do I complain?
Can I call back my little ones? Never again!
Can the great oak to the acorn return?—
The broad rolling stream flow back to the bourne?
The mother call childhood again to her knee,
That in manhood went forth, the strong and the free?
Ah, no! Mother, wish not for them back;
Your work nobly done, their tramp on life's track
Will come like an organ's note lofty and clear,
To lift up your soul and your spirit to cheer.
And though your tears fall when you're silent and lone,
You shall know it is best they have scattered and gone."
Silent and lone, silent and lone;—
"Thy will, O Father, not my will be done!"
Mrs. Hilda M. Richards, Malad Stake literary leader, spoke on "What Have the Literary Lessons Done for Your Stake?" at the Literary Department of the April Relief Society conference. It is regretted that the June number of the Magazine, on page 300, reported the address as being given by President Eleanor J. Richards.
Caroline L. Holt
CAROLINE LOUISA EVANS HOLT was born Nov. 13th, 1859, at Spanish Fork, Utah, the daughter of Thomas David and Priscilla Merriman Evans and the third in a family of twelve children. The father heard the Gospel in Wales and joined the Church when sixteen years of age. A year later, or in 1852, he was called to labor as a missionary in Pembrocshire, this mission lasted for six years. While traveling as a servant of God, he met and married the mother of Sister Caroline, April 3rd, 1856, and a few days later they left the land of their birth and set sail for America, arriving in Boston in May. They immediately started westward; arriving in Iowa, they continued their journey of a thousand miles across the trackless plains with the hand cart company. Brother Evans had the misfortune to be run over when a child and lose one leg. Using a wooden peg in place of his leg made it very hard for him to walk. At times he suffered so much he was obliged to ride and his young bride would pull the load. After many hardships they arrived in Salt Lake Oct. 3rd, 1856. They moved to Spanish Fork in a short time, where their first child was born, a baby girl who was called Emma.
THE father was called to fill another mission in far off Wales, and left Spanish Fork May 2, 1875, in company with Brother Thomas C. Martell. He filled an honorable mission of two and one half years, adding many rich experiences to his life. He died Aug. 2nd, 1906, at the age of 73. Sister Caroline's mother was an active worker in the Relief Society and was chosen as Secretary in 1857 and labored in that capacity for many years. When the call first came from President Brigham Young for the Sisters to glean wheat, Sister Evans went into the fields with her little ones, taking Caroline along to tend them, thus helping to save the precious grain to be used many years later when we were engaged in the World War, the First Ward of Spanish Fork selling Uncle Sam over $1,300.00 worth.
SISTER CAROLINE lived with her grandmother for six years but returned home to help her mother while the father was in Wales. Sister Evans died Nov. 5th, 1914. The first school Sister Caroline attended was taught by Bishop Butler's wife in a little adobe house on Main Street. The next teacher was Nancy Woodward who taught in her own home. Silas Hillman, James G. Higgenson, George H. Brimhall and Joseph A. Reese, were also her teachers. She worked as a teacher in Sunday School, teaching a class of young boys in the old meeting house. When the Young Ladies' Retrenchment Association was organized Sister Caroline was chosen as Librarian holding that office until the Wards were divided and then was called to work in the same position in the new ward in which she lived. Sister Holt was a gifted alto singer and has sung in the choir ever since she was big enough, being a member of the old choir and singing under the direction of William Jones, William James and Owen Rowe. When the Salt Lake Temple was dedicated she sang with a choir of three hundred voices at two sessions under the leadership of Prof. Giles. She is still a member of the ward choir where she resides.
At the age of 23 she was married to William Nathaniel Holt, the son of a Mormon Battalion member, being united to him for time and eternity in the old Endowment House by Daniel H. Wells, Nov. 2nd, 1882. To this union were born two children, Dolly Patience, Aug. 1st, 1883, and William David Holt, born Sept. 22nd, 1885. In the year 1894, Sister Holt had the great misfortune to lose her husband and although her health was poor she continued to press on rearing her children in faith in the Gospel and continuing her work in the Church. Her daughter Dolly married William Rigtrup, Dec. 6th, 1903, and became the mother of five children, Caroline, Annie Amelia, Dolly Percilla, Carl William and Alge. Shortly after the birth of Alge the mother died, passing away Jan. 20th, 1915. Though this was a great trial for Sister Holt, her great faith in God gave her strength to stand the ordeal and she was able to say, "The Lord giveth and the Lord taketh away; blessed be the name of the Lord." She has been a mother to her daughter's children and they always find a home and loving care with Grandma. Her son William graduated from the B. Y. U. and also filled a two and one-half year mission in the Central States. He married Zella Monk June 20th, 1917, and is the father of four children, Phyllis, Caroline, Zella, who died at the age of five months, Josephine and Donna Emma. William resides in Tooele, being Musical Director in the high school.
SISTER HOLT'S greatest public work has been in the Relief Society; when a girl of 18 years she was set apart as teacher, having Sister Rosetta Robertson as a companion. She labored in that capacity until Spanish Fork was divided into four wards. March 3rd, 1892, the Relief Society Sisters were called together in a meeting in the old Central meetinghouse. Sister Eliza Jex was released as President of Spanish Fork Relief Society and four organizations were perfected with Caroline L. Holt president of the First Ward, Thorgerda B. Snell 1st Counselor, Margaret Davis 2nd Counselor, Eliza Hales Secretary, and Ellen Tilley Treasurer.
MANY changes have taken place among those with whom Sister Caroline has labored, many have gone to the great beyond, but our dear sister is still with us. She filled the position of president of the Relief Society for 37 years, being released when the First Ward was divided April 21, 1929.
SHE was always on hand whenever and wherever her services were needed, no night was ever too dark or cold or stormy for her to answer the call and her work could always wait until her duty was done. She has been as a ministering angel in many homes in the time of sickness and death and with the great faith that is her constant companion she has helped us all in times of sorrow. No record has been kept of the many she has helped lay away in death, a Lamanite Sister being one of the number. None can know of the labor she has accomplished, but when that other book is opened a great work will be recorded there. We who have labored with her and know her worth love her best for her untiring labor and great faith.
Sister Holt was also a member of the old folks committee from the time they first commenced entertaining the old people until the division of the ward, when a new committee was chosen and she was among the honored guests.
At the present time she is active in Genealogical work and it is her greatest desire that as long as she is permitted to live that she may be found among those who are doing the work of the Lord.
Raffling, Games of Chance, Etc.
REPORTS have been received from time to time that, in some instances, at ward fairs and other entertainments, raffling and other chance games have been conducted. The argument used in favor of these contests is that such games are common in the business world and that the purpose for which they are employed is a worthy one. In other words, it is argued that the end justifies the means. In order, however, that the position of the Church may be clear, we are quoting herewith from instructions given by President Joseph F. Smith and by President Heber J. Grant which express the attitude of the Church authorities.
President Smith said, "Raffling is a game of chance, and hence leads to gambling. For that reason, if for no other, it should not be encouraged among the young people of the Church.
"PRESIDENT YOUNG declared raffling to be a modified form of gambling and said that 'as Latter-day Saints we cannot afford to sacrifice moral principles to financial gain,' and advised the sisters, through the Woman's Exponent, not to raffle. President Lorenzo Snow endorsed and approved of these statements and said: 'I have often expressed my unqualified disapproval of raffling.'"
President Grant says, "I have always understood that our people were advised to raise their money for charitable and other purposes without indulging in raffling, where chances are sold. There is no objection to creating competition in various ways in ward entertainments in order to raise money, but the selling of chances on any article has been discouraged."
THE spirit of gambling or taking chances for money is so rampant in the world at present that the moderating influence and example of the Church should be exercised in behalf of our young people toward resisting such temptations. We urge that the spirit of these instructions be followed in all ward entertainments, and that proper advice in the same direction be given all members of the Church.
The Presiding Bishopric.
Christina Olson Stramberg
MY mother, Christina Olson Stramberg, was born in Sallero, Dalarne, Sweden, January 10, 1861. Her parents were Lutheran, and her father, especially, was of a very religious nature. When nine years old she went to live with a good religious couple, who had no children of their own and there she learned to sing songs of praise to God and to pray for his guidance, and from that time on, continued to ask him to lead her to the right, that she might find her way back to his presence. As she grew older, there was always a longing to find the truth, and she tried the different religious denominations existing at that time, and was baptized into the Baptist Church. But she was not satisfied.
SHE was married and had several children when one day as she was looking for something in the attic of her mother's home she found a book entitled "Evangeliets Sanna Grundsatser"* that proved to be a very interesting treaty on gospel doctrine never before heard or seen by her in just that way. It was clearer and easier to comprehend. The book that proved to be a ray of light, leading to this glorious gospel of ours, had been left by one of our missionaries with some family in the community. It had been given to one of her brothers but as it was not interesting to him, it was put up in the attic, where years after she found it.
AFTER faith and prayer and studying and waiting, one wonderful morning in April 1895, an opening was made in the ice on Lake Siljan and my parents went into the waters of baptism and became members of the Church of Jesus Christ. Her prayers were answered and she had found the way which would lead her back to God.
IN the winter following their joining the Church, there were trials and sickness. My father had pneumonia, and also one of the children, and when they had recovered, mother herself came down with the disease. They had an abundance of faith, and their prayers were offered as to someone very near and whom they knew would help. But she was very sick and it seemed there was no help, and so one night her parents came to bid her, as they thought, a last farewell. She seemed to sink lower and lower and about midnight when my father leaned down to her she whispered that her feet were cold and everything seemed to stop. He felt of her feet and they were cold almost to her knees. She was apparently dying. I remember how he then came rushing out in the kitchen, where we were crying, and got some hot water to her feet, and during that time, how he leaned against our cupboard and cried like his heart was breaking. As soon as he had put the heat to her feet, he leaned over her, thinking that he would soon be left alone with the children, and his grief was heartbreaking, for there was always a wonderful love between my parents, that lasted through this life, and will go on forever. As he came close enough to catch her whisper, he heard her say: "If you will go and pray once more I think the Lord will let me stay." There was a lady friend of mothers sitting by the bed but she knew nothing of what happened.
THERE was very much snow that winter and as father went to pray, he knelt down in the snow outside the same wall on the inside of which her bed stood, and there with humbleness of heart he again petitioned the Lord to let her stay.
AS he was praying, she looked down towards the foot of the bed, and a man dressed all in white was coming slowly up to her and she saw that he was holding a bowl in his hand. When he came up to her he took something out of the bowl and gave it to her. She swallowed it and when she looked up again he was gone. When father came in again she said to him that she knew now that she would recover, and she did get well from that very hour.
THERE was no one there that they dared tell this incident to, for fear that it would be made light of, for it was very sacred to them and people there did not believe in spiritual manifestations. But when the missionaries came around on their visits to the Saints they told them that the suit worn by that heavenly visitor, as she described it, was a temple suit, and that someone from beyond the veil had been sent to them in their need to administer to her.
In the year 1909 we came to Utah and in 1913 we went through the Temple. When Mother saw the suits worn by the men she said to me, "that is just the way he was dressed only I thought it was cloth wrapped around his head instead of the cap."
AND so at least fifteen years before that time, in Sweden, on a cold and dark winter night, when her life was despaired of and there seemed to be no hope, the Lord gave her a testimony that this gospel and its ordinances reach beyond this life and into the eternities. Those that have associated with her in the Relief Society work or anywhere else can testify to her love for, and faith in God and his gospel, and now that her earthly body is laid to rest her spirit can go on without being troubled with sickness and distress as it was the last years of her life here, and as she was the only one of her relatives to join the Church her work there must be very great.
"God moves in a mysterious way,
His wonders to perform,
He plants his footsteps in the sea
And rides upon the storm."
*"True Principles of the Gospel."
Emma Joyce Udall
By Levi S. Udall
FIFTEEN minutes prior to the ushering in of the New Year, 1929, Emma Joyce Udall, beloved wife of Joseph Udall, died at the family residence in Eagar, Arizona, following an attack of influenza contracted Christmas Day. She had been in poor health for a number of years and was troubled with a weak heart.
THIS good mother was sixty-six years of age, having been born September 26, 1862, at Centerville, Utah, the daughter of Henry and Ellen Jackson Goldsbrough. The family shortly thereafter moved to Nephi, Utah, where Emma received her early education, and spent her girlhood days. After completing the courses of study given in the Nephi schools, she went to the Brigham Young Academy at Provo which was then in charge of that great educator, Dr. Karl G. Maeser.
ON February 2, 1882, at the age of 19 years, she was married to Joseph Udall in the Endowment House in Salt Lake City, and for two years the happy couple made their home in Nephi, where their eldest child Ellen was born. In 1884 this young couple, with one hundred other families, responded to a call from the leaders of the Church to go to Arizona and assist in colonizing that section of the country. They endured the hardships of a seven-hundred-mile trip, which was made with teams and wagons, and lasted about three months. This long, tedious pilgrimage followed the now famous route across Lee's Ferry on the Big Colorado, which was used by all the early "Mormon" pioneers going to Arizona.
ST. JOHNS was reached in August, 1884, and it became the home of Joseph Udall and family for six or seven years. There they built a good brick house and engaged in farming. In 1890 the family moved to Eagar, where they have since taken a prominent part in the development of that community.
MRS. UDALL was a strong character, a woman of honor and principle—brave and fearless. She was ever responsive to the calls made upon her by her Church, she having served for six or seven years as the first Stake Secretary of the M. I. A., following the organization of the St. Johns Stake in July, 1887. After going to Eagar she served as the first organist of that ward, for nearly ten years until succeeded by her daughter Nellie. She was a counselor in the ward Relief Society for several years, and subsequently for a period of sixteen years presided over that wonderful, charitable organization. During her regime a ward Relief Society hall was erected, and a beautiful ward chapel constructed to which, under her direction, several thousand dollars were contributed. Ever a friend to the needy, an unusual amount of charity work was done. She assuredly lived up to the aims of the organization in assisting the needy regardless of color or creed and gave unsparingly of her time and means both in public and private life.
SHE was ever helpful to and encouraged her husband in performing his Church duties. In 1898 he was called to fill a two-year mission in England and this loyal wife displayed her executive ability and business acumen by successfully looking after their varied enterprises during his long absence, as well as being both mother and father to their six small children; and upon his return, for twenty-three years, she loyally assisted her husband during the period he presided as bishop of the Eagar Ward.
IN civil life Mrs. Udall found time outside her family and Church duties to serve for many years as the first lady postmistress at Eagar; in addition to this she acted as the local registrar of vital statistics, and for three years served successfully as County Fair Commissioner, putting on exhibits at the State Fair which brought considerable credit to herself and Apache County. She was a member of the State Child Welfare Board for several years, and also acted, until the time of her death, as local chairman of the National Better Homes Association.
THIS good woman was the mother of ten children, eight of whom survive her, and it was the privilege of her husband and her living children, four boys and four girls, to be present at her bedside at and prior to the time of her death. She is also survived by three sisters and one brother living in Utah. Twenty-three grandchildren survive of a total of twenty-eight that have been born.
A BEAUTIFUL funeral service was held. Special and beautiful musical numbers were rendered and the floral offerings were many and lovely. The various speakers commented on the untiring energy always displayed by the deceased; her loyalty to family and friends, her artistic talent and love of nature and everything good and beautiful, the wonderful flowers she had each year carefully cultivated and her skill as a gardener and horticulturist; her devotion to her family and service rendered to her husband in being his "eyes" as his eyesight has been poor, due to an accident in his early married life; her loving care of the motherless grandchildren, three of whom have been reared by her as tenderly as their own mother could have done. Her friends left behind are legion and to her husband and children she is a divine gift.
The Meaning of Culture—John Cowper Powys
By Lois V. Hales
MUCH has been written about culture, most of it abstract, indefinite, and helpful only to those chosen few who have infinite leisure and talent. In John Cowper Powys's "The Meaning of Culture," however, we have a book written in beautiful, understandable prose, offering definite help as to the meaning of culture, its value, cultivation, and application in our everyday life. Mr. Powys's book is so inspirational in character that we are tempted to think that it will prove one of those rare books "that alter the course of many lives."
"TO be a cultured person is to be a person with some kind of original philosophy." This philosophy the cultured person makes no effort to justify. He does not chafe and fret until his ideas correspond with the ideas of the day. He takes the different sides of a question with a considerable grain of salt. Both science and religion have virtues to him. Not only does the cultured person have a philosophy, but he lives this philosophy. An educated person may hold his ideas in his pocket as so many pennies, but with the cultured person there is no gap between his opinions and his life. His philosophy is what he is. He is not resigned in his attitude toward life, but regards God with intense gratitude and intense deference. Feeling that there is some truth in every vision, all truth in none, he treats with reverence and humility every original hint and illuminating suggestion. And above everything the cultured person is aware of being alive—aware of the stream of life.
TO the cultured person literature is not to strengthen his memory nor to enlarge his learning. He reads to enrich his mind with imagination and to make him able to catch the fleeting loveliness which literature speaks of. After reading Thomas Hardy—after becoming familiar with his grey, sombre moods—the cultured person walks through any English country-side with a response corresponding to the response of Thomas Hardy. After reading Joseph Conrad, how much more fully and richly does the cultured person respond to the unlading of a ship at a darkening waterfront or at the crowded foreign docks of some big mercantile city.
WHILE the uncultured mind views these things and receives its own especial thrill from the raw, direct contact, the cultured mind approaches them through an imagination already charged with passionate responses of the great artists. Their minds are stored from great literature with mental images that enhance their own peculiar vision and make any experience richer and more deeply felt. Mr. Powys feels that so long as the forlornest patches of sky may be enjoyed through the eyes of Achilles or Prometheus, poetry alone can reconcile a man or a woman to the simplest and barest situation. Again, in looking at great paintings our boundaries of individual perception are enlarged and enriched.
OF religion in its relation to culture Mr. Powys says that "religion in its most flexible form does for us precisely what culture does; and if we have a comprehensive and imaginative faith, does it far better. The personality whose whole being is irradiated with the inward glow of a faith that heightens and quickens every pulse of life, has no need of culture doctrines." Where, however, an absence of faith has rendered religion unattainable, culture may act as a substitute.
THE cultured man will never assist at any kind of mental or moral tyranny. He will reject nothing, despise nothing, "knowing that everything belongs somewhere," that it is needed to make up the great mosaic of life. He will push no religious beliefs on anybody. He will not glibly chatter about the deepest secrets of his life. An educated person wants to expound, to attack, to defend. The cultured person is unwilling to "open the little postern-gate of his secret shrine for every casual traveler to stare at."
THUS the first part of Mr. Powys's book deals with the nature of culture. The latter part deals with the application of culture to life. To Mr. Powys, the life of culture is like a pilgrimage. A person may start at any moment in his life; but whenever he starts, he is bound to encounter obstacles to his life of culture. Two of the most harmful of these obstacles are, first, dull, stupid conversation, which leaves the mind completely untuned, debauched, ruffled, outraged; and, second, the inability to obtain leisure, the inability to be alone. To the cultured person, that day is utterly wasted where one has been cheated of all time to one's self.
CULTURE always results in greater happiness for the individual who practices it. The most fretting miseries we suffer spring from petty worries. The cultured person practices a detachment from the hurly-burly of the world until such an attitude grows to be a natural mental habit.
THE more culture a person has, the more independent he will be of outward circumstances. He may be confined to one remote village-street; he may be bed-ridden; but a passing cloud, a glow of sunlight, a few blown leaves, a little leaf-mould in a flower-pot, will be enough. His mind has been gathering for years impressions that make his life rich and remote.
WHAT people live in the world without being conscious that to be alive at all is the one grand mystery. Though driven by necessity, by hunger, by desire, by economic anxiety, the cultured mind never lets a day end without sifting his store of sensations for the day." Miserable he may have been; uncomfortable he may have been—but he has not been unhappy. He has said to the universe—"Whatever you inflict upon me, I can still enjoy."
SINCE true culture is the quickening of a persons' deepest happiness, love affects culture deeply. Love takes so much of the commonplace, the meaningless, the mediocre, from life. The state of being in love stirs up our "soul," and makes us more aware of life. What love can do for a person's culture is "on a par with the miracle that a heavy dew can work upon a thirsty garden. The juices and the saps of a million frustrated growths bestir themselves within their parched stalks."
THE difference between cultured people and uncultured people in their response to Nature is pronounced. The less cultured you are, the more you require from Nature before you can be roused. Uncultured people require blazing sunsets, gorgeous flowers, awe-inspiring mountains. Cultured people are thrilled by the shadow of a few waving grass-blades upon a little flat stone, by a single dock-leaf growing under the railings of some city-square.
TO the cultured mind no scenery is ordinary; "a grass-blade is more than a grass-blade in the early morning; the notes of a bird more than a song; the scent of a flower more than a sweet fragrance." Again, the cultured mind knows that we are most deeply stirred, say, just before twilight, when the sun falls horizontally across the earth and the shadows lengthen. Nothing mitigates one's fear of death more profoundly than communion with Nature. Contact with Nature makes one care less and less what other people think of him. It is the big in life that occupies the fore-ground.
POWYS'S chapter on "Culture and the Art of Reading" is one of his finest. From books, men and women learn to respect each other and to feel reverence for the "primordial comic-tragedy of the difference between them." Mr. Powys pleads for the old, old, great books because of their poetical earthiness, their calm acceptance of life and death. To their readers the "faintly-caught music of the spheres steals nearer." The effect of long absorption in reading is to "purge the mind of annoying and teasing thoughts and to leave us amiable, genial, benevolent. All intimate and intense reading is a kind of secret dialogue between the writer and one's own soul."
CULTURE and self-control are synonymous terms—no "refining of one's taste in aesthetics or in literature can palliate the enormity of being guilty of ungovernable anger." No one can be regarded as cultured who does not treat every human being, without a single exception, as of deep and startling interest.
EXCESSIVE gregariousness is a great hindrance to any deep cultural life. To desire to be always with a group of people is to be uncultured. "To escape among calm influences and be alone is the chief secret desire of every cultured mind." Educated people take sides fiercely and violently in controversy. The cultured people find it hard to do this.
IN relation to one's fellows, culture implies an earth-deep humility. Culture does not 'show' itself at all. It draws out others rather than asserts itself; it is a listener rather than a dogmatist, a peace-maker rather than a disputant. And as for the truth which it pursues, it finds it forever in two places—in everything and everyone; and in nothing and no one."
REAL, beautiful, noble culture is founded upon dreams—long, lovely day-dreams. "Any boy or girl who has spent an hour in happy dreaming has already fulfilled the purpose of creation. Happy are those people with one solitary, independent room, for culture desires for the youth long, silent, solitary hours full of mystical, poetical and metaphysical thought."
Notes from the Field
Minidoka Stake:
IT is with a feeling of sincere sorrow that we must record the death of one of our very able stake secretaries. This sad information was conveyed during the last month in the tidings of the death of Sister Lavinia Berlin, for many years secretary of the Minidoka stake Relief Society. Sister Berlin was a woman of rare ability, full of the true Relief Society spirit; she was ever valiant in her devotion to that cause, and in addition to this she was public spirited along all lines and took an active part in the community's educational and social advancement. In addition to her Church and her public service, she was the mother of a family, and made in this respect her very valuable contribution to the Church and the state. The General Board of Relief Society wishes to extend to the stake in which she resided, and to her family in particular, most sincere condolence in the passing of this beloved woman.
San Francisco Stake:
SOME interesting tidings were received in the office from the San Francisco stake Relief Society. The sisters of the Dimond ward in this stake write us most delightfully of the visit of Mrs. Joaquin Miller, who was the guest at the literary class of the Relief Society in this enterprising little ward. The class leader, Mrs. Maude Robinson, visited Mrs. Miller at her home, which is in the Dimond ward of Oakland. Mrs. Robinson had wished to have a more intimate knowledge of the life of the Western poet, Joaquin Miller. Mrs. Miller was very much pleased to know that the Latter-day Saint women were studying the poems of her husband, and upon the invitation of Mrs. Robinson, she came to the meeting on Tuesday in March, and gave a talk on Joaquin Miller. Among other things which she read were "Columbus," "The Passing of Tennyson," "Twilight at the Heights," "Juanita," and others. Before reading the poems she explained the conditions and the circumstances which had prompted the author to write the poems which were read. Mrs. Miller spoke of her husband as having a most merciful and charitable spirit, feeling this great compassion for everyone. He loved nature and he loved God, and endeavored to live close to both.
MRS. MILLER is a very highly cultured woman, very cheerful and reads with a feeling of so much appreciation of the spirit of the work that she greatly impresses her audience. She was eighty years and one day old on the Tuesday she appeared before the Relief Society. The secretary of the Dimond ward writes: "We were very happy to have Mrs. Miller with us. She told us so many things about her husband's home life. She was very greatly surprised to hear particulars of the Relief Society, that it had been organized so long, and that there were so many women enrolled." This was certainly a delightful experience for the sisters of this enterprising ward in the San Francisco stake, and is an indication of the way the work of the Relief Society is spreading and winning recognition from the most highly cultured people.
California Mission:
THERE is much interest shown relative to the educational program of the Relief Society. An interesting letter came from Hayden, Arizona, in which it seems great interest is manifest. The meeting held on the anniversary of Relief Society was very successful. Two talks were given on the historic material of the Relief Society. One talk was on the history of the organization of the Relief Society, and the other on its aims and accomplishments. These talks were given at the sacrament meeting on Sunday, March 16, 1930, and reached a very wide group of people. On Tuesday the regular anniversary program was carried out and a delightful hour spent.
St. Joseph Stake:
THE St. Joseph stake held its annual class leaders' convention in the Fall of 1929 at the Thatcher Church House. It was an all day session beginning at 10:30 a. m., with community singing. In response to the roll call which followed, there were 9 stake officers present, 20 class leaders, 107 visiting teachers, 49 members and other officers, bringing the total to 185 interested in the group. In the work which followed in the various class departments, the brethren were greatly interested. The first department, visiting teachers' topic, the subject Tithing, discussed by Brother Spencer Kimball; the theology lesson, subject The Book of Mormon, was given by President Harry L. Payne; the literature lesson, The Life of Karl G. Maeser, was given by Brother Monroe H. Clark; the social service lesson, taken from The Child: His Nature and His Needs, was given by Brother Wesley Taylor. This is a very fine innovation to make, as it gives the sisters an opportunity of getting the viewpoint of the brethren on the very important work which is the subject matter of Relief Society study. A delightful complimentary luncheon by the stake board was served at 12:30. At the one o'clock session the opening musical number was "For the Strength of the Hills." The afternoon session was more in the nature of a real community meeting, and the flower show and art exhibition held in connection with the county fair was the subject for much congratulation. During the afternoon, President Harvey L. Taylor gave a very delightful lecture on "Home and Family Life." The subject was handled in an educational and inspirational manner, and was most suggestive to the Relief Society workers assembled.
Tooele Stake:
ON February 13th, the new Tooele stake Relief Society entertained at a social for Sister Maggie W. Anderson, retiring stake president, who has served in a Relief Society stake capacity for 25 years. Her counselor, Sister Mary A. Barrus, was also a guest. They were each presented with a beautiful brooch as a token of appreciation. At the Union Meeting in March, after the class work had been conducted, the wards of the stake arranged for a very delightful testimonial for the retiring sisters. An excellent program was rendered and the two ladies, with Sister Mary E. Halladay, who still retains her position as counselor to the new president, were made the recipients of a lovely handbag, after which refreshments were served to those present. These two delightful entertainments were very successful.
Taylor Stake:
THE Social Service Class Leader from the Taylor stake writes: "For several reasons it is practically impossible for many of our mothers with young children to attend our Tuesday afternoon meetings. We felt badly about this, inasmuch as we realized that the young mothers were missing the information that would help them greatly in rearing their children. Consequently we decided to organize an evening class, calling it a 'Mothers' Extension Class.' In this we would review the text book The Child: His Nature and His Needs, and other material helpful along the same lines. These classes have been organized in five of our six wards, and wherever the work has been accomplished in the classes the attendance has been large and enthusiastic. We have also been greatly interested in health work among the children. We haven't easy access to baby specialists, so we have encouraged the mothers to seek the information available in many of our current publications, and to endeavor as far as possible to put the fine suggestions that are made into practice. We have been very successful in this and feel that much good has been accomplished among the children. We are trying to do some practical things through our Social Service Department.
South Davis Stake
ON Saturday, June 7th, was held the season's closing Union meeting of the South Davis Stake Relief Societies. The auditorium of the Bountiful chapel was well filled. The eight wards were each represented by nearly one hundred per cent. The invitation to the General Board was accepted by President Robison and Sisters Baxter and Irvine. Sister Layton of North Davis and her counselors and Sister Laura Hansen of Granite Stake were also present.
AT the close of a delightful address by President Robison, Sister Effie P. Eldredge said that it was due to an earnest plea made by Sister Robison to the societies five years ago that a campaign for beautifying their gardens was inaugurated in the stake. In a gracious speech of love and appreciation for her inspiring counsel, the stake president then presented Sister Robison with a lovely basket of delphiniums and daisies.
ANOTHER interesting feature of the meeting was the roll call of ward teachers by Counselor Clara S. Rose. She asked all those who had ever been ward teachers to stand. Practically every woman arose. Those who had served less than five years were then asked to be seated. This was continued, until at the call for forty-five years, only one dear, little sister was on her feet. She, Sister Mary Frances Cook, has served continuously for forty-six years as a Relief Society Ward Teacher. Sister Mary Christensen has served for forty-five years, and Sister Susan Page, for forty-two years. Sister Polly Grant and twelve other sisters who were unable to be present at the meeting have served for over forty years. Sister Baxter gave a splendid discourse on the work of the Relief Society ward teacher. Sister Irvine spoke briefly on value of labor. At the close of the meeting the folding doors into the amusement hall were opened and a magnificent flower show. The surprising and beautiful picture was made more enchanting by strains of music. An orchestra on the flower-banked stage played continuously during the remainder of the afternoon. Stake President Robinson and his counselor, Brother Clark, joined the group at this time. Punch and cakes were served to all who could leave off gazing at the flowers long enough to partake. Each ward had a large table for its display. There were six first and six second prizes offered. The judges, Messrs. Bert, Reading and Gregory felt that one bunch of poppies deserved special recognition. They personally gave an extra prize to that bouquet. Awarding prizes in a floral contest is as difficult as it is delightful. One could not but feel that the judges were entitled to sympathy as well as envy in their task. Each ward received at least one of the thirteen prizes. North Farmington, the smallest ward in the stake, received the award for the most artistic display. Only experts could have reached a decision on this question. To the laity all were bewilderingly gorgeous and charming. The decision of the judges was accepted by all in the true "Relief Society Spirit," with the utmost friendliness and good will.
THE flower show was an excellent object lesson in effort, showing the results of labor, the development of artistic taste, and co-operation. The exhibit was made more perfect by the generosity of the Miller and Lund Floral companies, who decorated the stage and hall lavishly, and to the orchestra. The orchestra, sponsored by Professor Whitman, its president, was conducted by Mr. Cecil Carr, with Mrs. Dorothy M. Mitchell as accompanist.
THE visitors soon discovered how utterly inadequate is the average vocabulary to express one's emotions at such a time. Meeting of old friends, sweet strains of music, all the flowers of one's fondest dreams, partaking of the spirit of the Lord in association with fellow workers combined to make this afternoon one of unforgettable pleasure to all.
South Sanpete Stake
The Sterling Ward Relief Society has won many compliments by successfully presenting for the stake the "Bible Mothers' Pageant." The beautiful scenes were enhanced by the accompaniment of appropriate music and songs. The three Relief Society women (shown in the picture with their granddaughters) who have been members of the Sterling Ward for more than fifty-two years, appeared in the opening scene of the pageant, dressed in white.
Three women who have been members of Sterling Relief Society over 52 years (First scene of the pageant).
West with the Ox Teams
By Cannon Porter
The covered wagons trek across the plain—
(A Mormon Prophet had not died in vain),
Flit of quail's wings, tramp of buffalo;
Dancing and singing around the camp-fire's glow
Low of oxen, sound of trudging feet;
Cream of the earth, these people here to meet.
A coyote's howl, a grave rock-ribbed from wolves;
The whoop of Bannocks scattered to defeat!
Purple sage stretched upon the desert vast;
At last the Rockies reached and climbed and passed
The Happy Valley—
Where land and salt sea meet!
[ADVERTISEMENTS]
Sego MILK for Puddings, Pies, Custards, Creams
Rival
At All Grocers
"A Surety of Purity"
O. P. Skaggs System
Of first consideration in any O. P. Skaggs System store is your welfare. Employees are ready to advise or assist you. Food is arranged conveniently for your selection. Your purchases are checked immediately, without bothersome waiting, no matter how many others are in the store.
WEDDING INVITATIONS and ANNOUNCEMENTS
That Are Socially Correct and of the Very Latest Styles
It will be a pleasure to assist you in making a selection of which you will be proud.
The Deseret News Press
29 Richards Street
Salt Lake City, Utah
When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine
Relief Society Women—Attention!
After sixteen years of service to the people, the BURIAL CLOTHES DEPARTMENT of the Relief Society takes this opportunity of expressing appreciation to you for your co-operation and patronage, which has contributed to the growth and stability of the Department. The Presidency of the Church, realizing the needs of the people, authorized the establishment of the Department in 1913. Since that time it has endeavored to serve the people. The Burial Clothes Department desires to announce that it has on hand a large and complete stock of temple and burial clothing in a variety of materials. There are suits for men and women, and burial clothing for children, including tailored suits for small boys. We give prompt and careful attention to mail, telephone and telegraph orders, and prepay postage and express charges.
When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine
Bennett's PURE PAINTS, VARNISHES, ENAMELS
"FOR THE ADORNMENT AND PROTECTION OF ALL SURFACES"
12 POINTS OF SUPERIORITY!
Bennett Glass & Paint Co.
Salt Lake City
MOUNTAINEER OVERALLS
Give Longer Wear and More Satisfaction
12 POINTS OF SUPERIORITY!
1. Bib "Stop-Loss" watch pocket.
2. Bib deluxe and pencil pocket.
3. Wide and roomy in seat and legs.
4. "Stop-Loss" side pockets.
5. Wide and strong suspenders.
6. Triple stitched seams.
7. First quality denim.
8. Combination pliers and wire cutters.
9. Buckle for comfort, service—guaranteed.
Due to large scale production and unusual buying power, Mountaineer Overalls with the Stop-Loss Pockets cost you no more than ordinary overalls.
Ask Your Dealer for Mountaineer with Stop-Loss Pockets
Manufactured in Salt Lake City by
Z. C. M. I. CLOTHING FACTORY
When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine
PURITY CHICKEN FEEDS
More Satisfaction for Your Money
Flour—Hay—Grain—Poultry and Dog Supplies
Vogelers Scientifically Balanced For Best Results
We will gladly advise you how to feed for profit
Telephone Us Wasatch 804
We Deliver
Vogeler Seed Co.
Salt Lake City
Genuine Uintah Basin HONEY
KATHERINE WURSTEN
597 NO. G EAST
LOGAN UTAH
Be Sure to Visit The L. D. S. BUSINESS COLLEGE
BEFORE YOU ENROLL FOR YOUR BUSINESS TRAINING
"THE BEST FOR THE LEAST COST"
Enter Any Monday
L. D. S. BUSINESS COLLEGE
Wasatch 1812
Protect the Home Circle
The easy systematic Mortgage Prepayment plan of the Equitable Life Assurance Society protected by Life Insurance is outstanding as the best means of freeing the American Home Owner from a mortgage obligation. Cost per $1000 per month including interest, principal and insurance is from $10 up to $15 per month.
Ask Us About Further Details
Ashton-Jenkins Co.
32 Main Street
Wasatch 123
Salt Lake City
$10 DOWN
Will place in your home completely installed—the finest Electric Range money can buy. Visit our store and see the many new models—at new low prices—of Hotpoint and Westinghouse Electric Ranges.
COME IN TODAY
UTAH POWER & LIGHT CO.
Efficient Public Service
When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine
L. D. S. GARMENTS FOR ALL SEASONS
Selected from our extensive line of L. D. S. Garments we suggest the following numbers for all seasons wear:
No. 1 New end ribbed wt. cotton with rayon silk stripe. Ladies new style 95¢
No. 2 Old style, ribbed lgt. wt. Cotton, our standard summer wt. 1.25
No. 3 Ribbed med. wt. Cotton, bleached. Our all season number.. 1.90
No. 4 Ribbed heavy wt. Unbleached
No. 6 Light weight summer garment. Old style or Ladies new style 95¢
No. 7 Light wt. New or old style, mercerized—silky finish....... 1.75
No. 8 Light weight Spring and Summer garment. Men only 1.00 No. 9 Light weight silk for ladies only, new style only 1.50 — No. 10 Medium wet. Silk for men and women, new style only  1.95 In ordering, be sure to specify whether old or new style garments, three-quarter or ankle length legs, short or long sleeves are wanted. Also give bust measure, height and weight to insure perfect fit. Postage prepaid. Special discount to missionaries. FACTORY TO YOU—THE ORIGINAL Utah Woolen Mills One-Half Block South of Temple Gates WEDDING INVITATIONS and ANNOUNCEMENTS That Are Socially Correct and of the Very Latest Styles It will be a pleasure to assist you in making a selection of which you will be proud. It The Deseret News Press  29 on Richards Street Salt Lake City, Utah When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine An excellent Ladies number..$1.25 cotton, our standard summer back number  2.25 Briant Stringham, Manager ment. Old style or Lamias No. 7 Light wet. New or old style, only, new style only.............. 1.50 28 Richards Street L. D. S. GARMENTS Good grade, and well made. When ordering, state Size, New or Old Style, and if for man or lady. Postage prepaid. Sample on request. 147 Spring Needle, Flat Weave......$1.10 508 Ladies' New Style Extra Lt. 32 Combed Cotton, Lt. Wt............... 1.50 Wt. Combed Cot. 1.25 208 Lt. Wt. Rib. Double Card Cot... 1.35 302 Ladies' New Style, Rayon.......... 2.50 222 Rayon Striped Combed Cot....... 1.65 Silk, Fine Quality............ 3.0 258 Med. Wt. Rib. Double Card Cot. 1.85 748 Unbleached Cot., Hvy. Wt." 2:00 628 Merc. Lisle Light Wt................. 2.90 754 Bleached Cot., Hvy. Wt..... Wane 2625 BARTON & CO. Established in Utah 45 Years 142 WEST SOUTH TEMPLE ST. SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH TEMPLE AND BURIAL CLOTHES COMPLETE SUITS FOR MEN AND WOMEN Variety of Grades and Prices. Prompt and Careful Attention To Mail—Telephone—Telegraph Orders Open Daily, 9 a.m.—5 p.m. GENERAL BOARD RELIEF SOCIETY Phone Wasatch 3286, 29 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah L. D. S. GARMENTS Direct From Factory You are guaranteed unusual wear and satisfaction from Cutler Garments. They are made from the best long wearing, two combed yarns. No. 68 Ribbed ex. Light Cotton........$.85 No. 56 Ribbed Hvy. Cotton bleached 2.15 No. 74 Ribbed It. Wt. Cotton................ 1.10  No. 84 Rib. Mercerized Lisie. 1.95 No 55 Ribbed Hvy. Cot., Unbleached | No. 76 Ribbed lt. Wt. Lisle... 1.35 — No. 68 Lt. Med. Unbleached Double No. 27 Ribbed Med. Wt. 50% Back 1.35 Wool 3.35 No. 64 Ribbed Lt. Med. Cot...1.85 No. 39 Ribbed Hvy. Wt. 50% No. 62 Ribbed Med. Hvy. Bleached... 1.75 Wool 3.85 Non Elbow and Knee | No. 82 Silk and wool-- 4.50 Long Sleeves and Legs, or old style.. 2.85 No. 61 Ribbed Med. Hvy. Unbleached WHITE TEMPLE PANTS Double Back 2.0...1.75 8 oz. Heavy Duck 1.95 SPECIAL MISSIONARY DISCOUNTS | In ordering garments please state if for men or women and if old or new styles are wanted. Also give bust, height and weight. Sizes above 48—20% extra. Marking 15e. Postage Prepaid. | GARMENTS UNDERWEAR | ———When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine 284 Ladies' Crepe Rayon.................... 2.00 1072 Mixed Wool and Cotton.............. 4.00 Ask for one of our folders describing the different services we offer. LAUNDRY Hyland 190 Distinctive Work Office 319 S. Main St. LITTLE ACHES AROUND THE EYES Ten o'clock at night—you're reading— pesky little hurts in the eyes! Do you know what they are? They're the strain of muscles trying to correct your vision —a task which should be given to a pair of glasses. DR. DON C. JAMES OPTOMETRIST Temple and Burial Clothes COMPLETE SUITS FOR MEN AND WOMEN Variety of Grades and Prices Prompt and Careful Attention To Mail—Telephone—Telegraph Orders Open Daily, 9 a. M.—S p. M. General Board Relief Society Phone Wasatch 3286 29 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah When Buying Mentiom Relief Society Magazine No. 6 East Broadway  Salt Lake City CONTENTS San Dimas Valley........-Frontispiece A Glimpse of Loveliness.... Glen Perrins 405 Art.... . Annie Pike Greenwood 406 Nature in the Raw—Snake River........411 Myrella.......Josephine Spencer 412 Editorial—English Women Once More.. 421 The American Mother-Heart........ 422 Another Word of Congratulation..... 422 Welfare Worker of Germany Visits 423 Leaning Rock, Ogden Canyon.......... 424 The Message of Leaning Rock.........Glen Perrins 425 Bee Parsons 425 The Little Grandmother.... Lucy R. Scott 426 Moods of the Mountains........... Helen McQuarrie Evans 437 Ruth Partridge Richan 438 Family Life Today....... Lais V. Hales 440 The World is Beautiful to Me............ Annie Rosdahl 442 Daughter's Beaus........ Elsie C. Carroll 443 The Western Stars.... Henry F. Kirkham 445 Lora Pratt 446 The Pledge of Oberammergau........Olga Wunderly Snell 447 Guide Lessons for October......452 Organ of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints Room 20 Bishop's Bldg. Salt Lake City, Utah $1.00 a Year—Single Copy, 10c Foreign, $1.25 a Year—Ii5e Single Capy Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah Phone Wasatch 3123 VOL. XVII AUGUST, 1930 NO. 8 Photo by Courtesy of 'Pictorial California SAN DIMAS VALLEY—AFTER THE THIEF WHO REPENTED ON THE CROSS THE Relief Society Magazine Vor, XVII AUGUST, 1930 ' No. 8 ex A Glimpse of Loveliness By Glen Perrins It was with a gasp of delight that I came upon picturesque San Dimas canyon in California. It is a glimpse of ~ loveliness. Nestled high in the Pomona valley, I sat down upon the grassy bank of the stream which I had been following. Alone with Nature in the out-of-doors! And in such a wonderland! One glorious hour I spent in this spot, watching the lazy sunlight flicker through the tree tops, and listening to the murmuring of the water as it splashed against the rocks. It was near here that the pioneer settler of Pomono valley first pastured his herds. His name, they told me afterward, was Ignacio Palomares. The Indians, however, so frequently made off with his cattle that the settler decided to quit the beauty spot and his hacienda nearby. He named the spot San Dimas after the thief who repented on the cross—because Palomares had himself repented choosing such a place as pasture-land. One cannot, however, blame Palomares for picking just such a place. Who would not want to settle down in this beauty spot? My hour in San Dimas canyon was a contented, restful and refreshing one. I wager that Palomares — back after a time—just to feast upon the beauty of the place. Art By Annie Pike Greenwood HARRIET BIRD laid her head on her hand on the table and wept silently. The sunlight fell passionlessly across the shabby brown cover on which Harriet's hands were clenched. It was a bitter, terrible moment for Harriet, a moment which epitomized the failure of her life. She had been born with the passion for writing, born reaching for a pencil. Dreams, dreams, dreams. All her life had been dreams. That is, all her inward life, and all her outward life had been the hardest kind of reality. Harriet Bird had been born with a spirit as blithe as her name. Her father had insisted on taking his family of two boys and a girl and his wife to a forty-acre tract out in the sagebrush of Idaho. Fair acres they are in the future. Killing acres in the pioneer present. It required every moment of Harriet's time in labor, for her mother had been an invalid when they had come to the farm, and without any medical care so far from a doctor, she was even more helpless. The boys, too, one older, and one younger than Harriet, did not adapt themselves to the new life as Harriet did. There were many moments of rebellion on their part when they ignored the work to be done, allowing the burden to rest upon Harriet's shoulders. For there is one fact in life, if your shoulders are willing, there will be plenty of burdens thrust upon them by those more shiftless, and even heartless, than yourself. Harriet milked the cow; Harriet raised a garden sufficient for the need of the family both summer and winter; Harriet cared for the house, for her mother, and for a large brood of chickens. Harriet pitched hay in case of necessity; took care of the irrigation if the men left the farm for Maryvale. And inside herself Harriet was a writer. She was a writer dying daily of the starvation which a born writer must know who is not permitted by fate to write. It is a suffering beyond the imagination of any but another writer so born. The heat was terrible in the tarpaper shack in the summer, and the cold was almost impossible to bear in the winter with only sagebrush to burn. If the men neglected to get a load of brush in time, Harriet found of necessity that she must go out and do it herself. She learned to swing the axe with strength and desperation. She did not do it for her brothers and her father, against whom there smothered a resentment born of injustice, but all her nature yearned over the poor mother who had been forced to leave the comfortable city for a whim of her father to make his fortune by farming. Harriet had a straight, fine look in her brown eyes between level brows. Her lips met too firmly for the lips of a young girl. They had not always met so. In her childhood they lay softly upon each other as she dreamed of that great future that would be hers when she should write the things she knew would lay within her power. She had no time to give attention to the heavy mass of rich brown hair that swung back from her high, broad forehead. Even neglect did not rob it of a wild, shining beauty.
ROBERT EMORY and Henry Strange looked upon Harriet. Robert had some acres of his own, and Henry was farming in partnership with another man. Their farms lay on either side of the farm on which Harriet lived. Robert was quiet and careful. Harriet was too heavy-burdened to give him a thought. Henry could not be so ignored. He was vivid, flashing, full of song and life. One day when Harriet had been left alone on the farm with her mother, she was pitching hay for the evening feeding of the stock. Behind her, unnoticed, came Henry. He held back the arms which she had uplifted, making her drop the fork, and as she lifted an astonished gaze, Henry bent masterfully over her face and kissed her, smiling. Infatuation is a queer thing. It is not a bad part of the education of a well-rounded being to have experienced it. The wise person will feel no shame regarding it when it is over. Nature demands reproduction at any cost. Pitiable the life that is wrecked by it. Harriet felt glow through her veins a warmth that would never come again. But there are other sweetnesses in life whose cost is not so devastating. The work was not so difficult after that. All desire to write was lost in this new passion. Henry made a point of dropping around to inquire the proper way to treat a sick cow, or to get a loaf of Harriet's good bread. She never baked but with the thought of him in the back of her mind, allowing enough dough in the batch for an extra loaf. To her it was a period of delirious joy. This was not lost on the grave Robert. He watched the progress of events. He, too, had a habit of dropping around Harriet's household. He spoke very little, watching her every movement, or else appearing not to notice her at all. Harriet's mother saw. As mothers will, her heart went out to Robert, and set up antagonism to Henry. There could not fail to result a kind of friction because of this condition.
"Yes, Mother," said Harriet, "I know that you think Robert is perfect, and I know why you do not care for Henry. Robert is always doing things for you. Well, let Robert do things for you, Mother. That is all right. But don't condemn Henry. It's not fair. If Robert liked me as much as Henry does, he would be doing things for me instead of for you. Robert is not a man who could ever care much for a woman." But Henry—magnificently virile Henry—here was a man to care for a woman. Something sweeping, something surging, had come into Harriet's life. She did not need to write any more. She could not write. She was living too intensely in her emotions to be able to write. Poetry and prose are the outcome of emotion when the ebb begins, not at the peak of the tide. She would have something to write some day, would Harriet; now she could only live.
Flora Gerritt was a queer sort of person to come clear from Chicago to visit on her aunt Selina's eight-acre pioneer farm. She was fluffy of clothes, fluffy of heart, and fluffy of soul. Fluffy women are a perpetual fascination to men. Generation after generation men waste their lives on fluffy women. Contrast probably accounts for this. Perhaps Nature wishes to perpetuate the fluffiness of human nature lest we grow too heavy in our outlook on life. But fluffiness is always the concomitant of pretty selfishness which a man in love is too blind to see.
THERE was one of the first dancing parties in one of the first real houses erected. It was necessary to remove the stove in order to make room for the young people and the old people—none over sixty—and the babies, plenty of babies. Robert, knowing that Harriet would go with Henry, slipped over to be with Harriet's mother. He also knew that Harriet's father and brothers were likely to leave the mother alone on the farm. Why not? Was she not in bed where no harm could befall her? Robert had discovered that Harriet's mother still retained a love for Dickens, so somehow he had obtained David Copperfield, and on such evenings as this he sat beside her bed, reading to her, her quiet eyes which had accepted her hard life, resting upon his face as though drawing a strengthening comfort from it. She loved her boys. She was their mother. She no longer loved Harriet's father. She had never even confessed this to herself, but there was a sad, barren place in her heart which meant the discovery that she was married to a man whom she could not respect, a hard, selfish man. But for this Robert who had come so quietly into her life, with the steady eyes and tender touch, was a love which she could not define. She did not need to define it. God had sent a compensation in time of need, for much as Harriet loved her mother deep down in her heart, at this period of her life she was absorbed in her passion for Henry. Even the thought of her mother was made subordinate. Infatuation works so. True love never. But Harriet did not know this.
Henry came with his wagon for Harriet just as Robert appeared with his volume of David Copperfield. Robert scarcely smiled at Harriet, looking her gravely, searchingly, in the face. It struck her suddenly, and oddly, that she did not know him at all. A faint curiosity as to what lay back of his eyes crossed her mind. But this was soon dispelled by the pressure of Henry's hand on her arm as he led her to the wagon. He could drive the steady work horses with one hand, and one of his arms was around Harriet. How happy was that journey through the summer night, the stars shining down upon them! There was enough chill in the Idaho air to require the jacket she was wearing, and Henry's arm added a thrilling warmth. He sang some popular air as he drove the horses, and Harriet could think of nothing in the world to trouble her. So she entered the house of the party, and she caught with fearful premonition the look which came into Henry's eyes as his gaze lighted upon the fluffy Flora Gerritt in a fluffy white dress. Of course Flora was surrounded by the youths from the farms. And she showed a charming unconcern of their worshipping attitudes. The other girls were grouped in giggling twos and threes, pretending indifference to the little lady who was absorbing all the attention. With characteristic directness, Henry pushed aside the adorers and appropriated Flora. Occasionally, and quite absently, he returned to dance with Harriet to the tune of a wheezing accordion which had been brought to farm life by its devoted master. And thus Harriet's world was blotted into blackness as a coin can shut out the light of the sun.
When the party broke up there was some discussion as to who was to take Flora to her aunt's. What provision had been made Harriet would never know. Flora was very clever at maneuvering. The outcome was that Flora had her place between Harriet and Henry on the wagon seat, and that Henry drove first to Harriet's farm, leaving her there without the usual goodnight kiss and embrace, and continued on his way to return the fascinating Flora to her aunt. Harriet could not forbear to cast one stricken glance backward at them as they passed, and was rewarded by seeing Flora's head resting upon Henry's shoulder, and the very arm that had been pressed about her so fondly going to the party, now pressed just as fondly around Flora Gerritt.
Harriet could not go into the house at once. She stood on the doorstep trying to grip herself together. Robert, wondering at the pause after the sound of the retreating wagon wheels, opened the door suddenly and was surprised at the look of suffering on her face. Robert was not a man from whom you could hide anything. He was quietly glad that this thing had come to Harriet before instead of after. He had long known Henry. He was the only person who had really seen to the bottom of Henry. He had done it without malice or jealousy, and with no desire to interfere in Harriet's fate. Robert was possessed of that greatest strength that forbears to meddle in the life of another. He simply looked into her face with a full glance, holding the door open for her entrance without a word. She had just strength enough to cross the sill and get to a chair. He left mercifully as soon as she was seated. But looking backward, he saw through the window the prostration of her figure, the tears that dropped from her wide eyes. He had seen his beloved father killed in an accident in the city of Detroit—a car driven by a careless hand. He had seen his mother die a long-drawn, agonized death. He stood watching Harriet, forgetful of self, suffering with her. The thought came to him that she would be more hurt if she knew he were watching. He turned and walked to his shack with bowed head.
THEY all watched the progress of Henry's affair with Flora. They also watched the unsatisfied Flora attempt to draw the grave Robert into her toils. Everybody prophesied over the cook stoves, or in the hayfield, that Flora would get him. But sometimes calculations fail. Flora turned from blandishments to tears and from tears to rage. She walked the two miles from her aunt's home to the shack which housed Robert, surprising him at supper. He invited her in, gave her a seat, and fried some more eggs and bacon. He was neither flustered nor flattered by her appearance. When she took his hand, resting her pretty white fingers in his, he left them there, and when she decided to go home, he hitched his horses to the wagon and took her there. He made no objection to the fluffy head on his shoulder, and placed his arm around her at her request. And when she put up her lips to be kissed, he answered with the desired gesture. On the way back to his shack he smiled to himself. But it was not the smile of a lover.
Thus began the wooing of Robert by Flora, and the bitter rage of Henry. He could not vent his spleen on Robert, for it was so obviously an affair engineered by Flora, but Flora was forced to meet his invectives alternated with his endearments. Henry no longer sang buoyantly under the star-shine. He no longer laughed his hearty laugh while pitching hay. He had become morose. And he had totally forgotten Harriet.
At first Harriet was too stricken to know what to do. Then one day Robert remarked to her the failing of her mother. If she should lose her mother—this would be too much to bear. She felt that terrible, lonely feeling which follows a love unreciprocated, even when waiting devotedly upon her mother with the remorse for the neglect which Henry had occasioned. A sigh of relief would burst from her lips at sound of Robert's step. But she did not love him.
ONLY once, in one of their first meetings, had Harriet revealed to Robert her passion for writing. But he had not forgotten. He came one day with a woman's magazine, a heavy pencil line drawn around the announcement of a prize for the best novel on any subject. Harriet's sick heart bounded. Here was a way out. She would win the prize. She would lift her mother out of this hard life. She would somehow begin again herself. She wrote a story of life, but of life triumphant, not of life defeated. There had come into being these latter days a cult of the morbid which is called being true to life. It is true to the defeat of life. It has no power to lift life higher than before. It has only power to drag backward. It is called Art. In a passion of rebellion Harriet resolved never to create a thing which did not end in a triumph of some sort, either to the heart or to the soul. So she wrote. And the healing of her life began as she wrote. Robert watched the change taking place in her, reading Dickens to her mother as Harriet wrote in the next room. Flora did her disconsolate best to lure him away, even coming to Harriet's shack to chatter and laugh when she found that Robert had a frequent mission there. She was not discouraged by Harriet's cold indifference. She was not coming to see Harriet. She always waited for Robert to take her home. Harriet watched, at first with indifference, and then, when she felt a resentment against Flora's attempt at conquest, she resolutely suppressed any growing interest in Robert. Once was enough to suffer. She was feeling her disappointment still under all that she wrote. Then, with high hope, she sent the manuscript on its way—and waited.
TO wait is one of the hardest things that mankind must endure. But the waiting had its ending. Harriet wept silent tears on her clenched fists which rested against the shabby brown cloth covering the table. Robert came in without knocking, very quietly, picking up the open manuscript, and letting his eyes rest upon it. Harriet gave a start, and hid her face again. What did it matter? Robert held the manuscript, but was not reading, although his eyes rested upon it. Suddenly Harriet looked up with a smile of scorn, cheeks wet from her tears.
"Why are you holding it? It is not true to life. It is not art. It has a happy ending."
"Then it is mine," he said, placing it, as he spoke, on the table. "Harriet," he said, "don't you know that art is always happy? Not happy in process, but happy in result. Life must have a happy ending. There must be triumph of heart or soul. Preferably soul. Harriet, the day is coming when you will write great things. You are living now."
Harriet looked at him with eyes awake for the first time. "Flora?" she murmured, not knowing that she spoke.
"No," he smiled into her eyes, "even life has art, just as books must have art to live, and it is the same art, Harriet. It is keeping steadily on, and out of pain to bring the happy ending."
Robert looked into her eyes and she looked into his. "Are you ready to bring your mother over to my place to live?"
Harriet could only look into his eyes. "For weeks I have been getting ready for the happy ending, Harriet. I was not sure. No one can be sure. True art is in preparing for the happy ending. True art is in bringing some sort of triumph out of pain. I know, Harriet."
"O Robert! I trust you so!" She laid both her hands in his. He who had always been so grave smiled into her lifted eyes. "Now you can write, Harriet. You have learned the lesson."
NATURE IN THE RAW
As beautiful as it is treacherous is the Snake River near Idaho Falls. Here is found Nature in the raw, jagged cliffs having been cut from the canyon by the rapid current of the Snake River which winds around and around in this territory—Glen Perrins.
Myrella
By the Late Josephine Spencer
WHEN Macy knew that the stenographer who was to take young Evans' place was a girl, he entered the first protest he had ever initiated against his partner's plans.
"It's no place for a girl, Dartley—the work's too technical. She'd probably be weeks learning our mining phases, and we'd have to stand for the inconvenience while she was coaching. Besides—"
Dartley interrupted him with the reminder that Evans had taken care of the mining technicalities without special training, but the argument, from Macy's point of view, was puerile.
"Boys can pick up those things—by instinct. But a girl—"
The broken sentence was a sufficient climax to Macy; and his partner knew it would be useless to base his argument upon the mere fact of competency. Macy's real objection lay in his aversion to feminine society—a foible forced upon his notice by Macy's untactful evasion of social attentions forced upon him during his stay with them in Chicago, and which had aroused the ire, not only of Dartley's wife, who had gone out of her way to lionize the big, handsome but unsocial blonde, who was her husband's friend and business associate, but also to certain others of her own sex, to whom Macy's indifference had given subtle affront.
WHEN the vein was struck that proclaimed the Bluebird a bonanza, Dartley knew that the eagerness with which Macy accepted the chance of burying himself in the little mining town near their claim, was due to the opportunity it afforded him to escape from social obligations entailed by his presence in the city. Some story of a disastrous love affair in Macy's remote past had been hinted in explanation of his obstinate repellance of feminine society, but the tale seemed too trite for credence, and Dartley had decided that it was due, rather, to a sort of natural shyness resulting from his long stay in spots remote from civilization where he had spent years in seeking the fortune which came to him at last through an insignificant mining claim in his neglected West.
IN the year since his return, Dartley had tried with philanthropic energy to reform Macy's "retiring disposition"—but in vain. Seeing him stubbornly serious in regard to the present question, Dartley was obliged to take him into his confidences as to the story whose claim had won his own personal pledge to the "girl's" interests. It was dramatic enough, as Dartley preluded, to be used on the stage. Its tableaux, sandwiched between commonplace but harrowing details, were: the father's financial failure, followed by the mother's death; the collapse of the husband into an illness where expense ate up the small financial resource which remained to him from his reverses; and finally the man's desperate resort to a penal crime to protect the child from threatened actual want. Trial and imprisonment under an alias—for the child's sake—followed; and the latter, adopted by the widow of her father's former business partner, grew towards womanhood believing her father dead. A year since, her guardian had died, depriving Myrella not only of protection, but support; and the girl, thrown on her own resources, had taken up the problem of livelihood—its present outlook hinging on the position at the Bluebird.
These were the salient points in the girl's history; and sequalled, as they were, by the personal interest of Dartley's wife in her case, cut the ground from beneath the two feet which Macy had obstinately planted upon his friend's proposition. Dartley knew, from the first, that he had a court of final appeal against Macy's stubbornness in his friend's acute sensitiveness to human suffering; and the result of his story justified the faith he had placed in its influence. Macy yielded, however, with a bad grace, which manifested itself in alternate spells of gloomy silence and splenetic sarcasm up to the time of Myrella's arrival; and his cold reception of that harmless person when she at last arrived, filled Dartley's mind with misgivings, as he considered her future in the view of his friend's belligerent attitude.
MACY left the dictation of correspondence unreservedly to Dartley, during the latter's stay at the Bluebird, and it was when he went away, and the work fell under Macy's reluctant supervision, that Myrella's trials began.
A week's experience of her employer's rapid dictation and raspingly authoritative manner reduced her to a condition bordering upon nervous prostration; and the note-taking and transcribing which went smoothly enough before Dartley's departure, began to take on a problematic aspect when Macy's impatient presence was behind her chair. She sat up far into the night, reading books of mining reference to accustom herself to technical terms, and spent portions of her earnings in hiring the landlady's daughter, Mabel, to read passages in staccato time, in the faith that practice would enable her to solve the problem of her unusual slackness in her work. The pencil that flew to Mabel's swift, but mild enunciation, lagged hopelessly before Macy's impatient tone and eye; and the phrases she had mastered seemed, in the few short hours between night and office-time, to have resolved themselves into a dead language, when she essayed to read her notes under Macy's critical vision.
"It's funny you should get so thin, up here," the landlady said one day, some three weeks after Myrella's arrival. "The mountain air fleshes most people up; but it seems to me you look paler than when you came. It must be you work too hard."
"Oh, it isn't the work," said Myrella. "I guess its the—the—altitude."
She turned away, but not before Mrs. Lane saw that tears filled the blue eyes—and a pathetic quiver lurked about the pale lips.
It all came to a climax one day when Macy was in a particularly aggressive mood. Rumors of an impending strike were about, and it was taking all the diplomacy he possessed to avert what, at this juncture, would mean a disastrous situation. The absence of anyone who might help bear the brunt of the anxiety, deepened Macy's sense of grievance, as he entered the rear office, and saw Myrella's slight figure shrink nervously, as was evident, at his approach. It would have been different, Macy thought, if Evans were there. He had taken an intelligent interest in the affairs of the company, and could comprehend the amount of anxiety involved in the threatened complications. Myrella's pen rolled across the table, as he sat down near her desk to dictate; and he waited, with a frown on his face, while she reached for it, and laid her notebook ready for his dictation. Anxiety, impatience, a little spleen at his partner's easy reception of the news he had telegraphed, all made his mood and manner irritable; and presently when he asked her to "read back" for his benefit a sentence upon whose careful wording much would depend, her notes refused absolutely to interpret themselves to her nervous scrutiny.
"Didn't you take the sentence?" Macy asked, sharply, at last.
"Yes, sir, I—I am trying to find it."
Macy waited frowningly while she went down the lines of hieroglyphics—as unanswering to her now as if her shorthand training had been an episode in some forgotten incarnation.
"Have you found it?" Macy asked in ugly tones.
"No, sir."
"Go back to the beginning and read down to it, aloud."
Myrella obeyed. She read the first few lines—haltingly, by an effort of pure memory—then came to a full stop.
"Well?" said Macy, ominously.
Myrella's face was pale; and her eyes, fixed unseeingly on the lines and curves and dots, were swimming with tears.
"Can't you read your notes?" thundered Macy.
"I think—if you would let me be by myself a moment," faltered Myrella desperately, "I could—"
"I can't afford to take a holiday while you teach yourself stenography," Macy interrupted. "This letter's important; it has to be gotten off this morning."
He knew beforehand that it was brutal, and believed it warranted by his grievance; but he had been far from counting upon the outcome of his impatience. He commenced to suggest that she should take the dictation again in longhand—when it happened. He had never heard any woman cry before and the mildest phase of feminine grief would have sufficed to overwhelm him; but the sobs which shook the slight figure leaning on the desk in its absolute abandon of grief did more than embarrass, they frightened him.
It was to Myrella a culmination of days of nervous tension and anxious fear, of sleepless nights filled with thoughts of an ominously brooding future in which she should find herself turned adrift, probably with the verdict of "incompetent" to bear as a record for future reference. Macy, in his man's blindness and long-nursed prejudices, had sensed nothing of it, till her broken sentences, gasped between heart-drawn sobs made him realize all.
"I—I'm so dull—I've tried hard, but it don't seem any good. I see—I can't go on. I guess I'm too stupid to learn it. I—I'll have to go away."
She broke again into a paroxysm of sobs, while Macy looked on helplessly. Go away—why, where would she go? The story Dartley had told him came back vividly for the first time since he had heard it. He rose and stood with his hand awkwardly upon her chair-back.
"I—you mustn't give way like this, Miss Conroy. It won't do to get discouraged. You'll get along all right when you get used to it. And as for going away, I hope you won't think of such a thing. It's out of the question."
Myrella shook her head hopelessly. "It wouldn't be right to stay when I know I don't suit you."
Macy winced. It was distinctly true that she did not suit him; but he had begun to feel guiltily conscious that the fault lay chiefly with himself. He stood miserably silent for a moment.
"Your work is all right, Miss Conroy," he stammered presently. "I—the fact is, I've been under somewhat of a strain for several days, and I've been a little trying, I guess. But you mustn't notice it—like this—nor let it discourage you. As for going away, please don't speak of it again. I couldn't spare you just now—."
He floundered miserably in his effort to frame something that should straighten matters out—and the pitifully joyful face Myrella turned towards him, deepened his sense of contrition.
"If you think I really could go on," she said, "I would practice more, and perhaps—"
"Not a doubt of your doing all right," broke in Macy eagerly—and then a knock at the outer door put an end to the situation.
"I'll leave the letter until this afternoon," he said; "it will do if you can get it out by the time I come back from lunch"—and then turned hastily to greet, with startling effusiveness, the messenger who had brought word that he was summoned to a meeting of bank directors in the town.
WHEN he returned an hour later to find the letter transcribed in neat form, correct even to the precise placing of his particles, his sense of culpability was deepened to an extent which elicited another awkward apology when she returned from lunch for his part in the morning's unpleasantness. His dread of a similar experience made him nervously self-conscious and careful when dictating to her after that, and any hint of hesitation on the part of Myrella to interpret the symbols she had penned, called forth a humorously eager assurance from him as to the inconsequence of a literal translation, as well as the extravagant amount of time at her disposal for the work. The tension, during the first week after Myrella's impromptu scene, made him choose to sit up often, late at night, inditing by hand the longer letters he was obliged to send, rather than endure it; but Myrella improved so rapidly and palpably under his changed manner, that it was not long before the sense of strain wore off; and he could approach her desk with an ease that would have surprised anyone acquainted with his peculiarities.
After a time he began to be aware that many things could be entrusted to her intelligence, without going into detail; but the fact of her capability did not keep him from spending much of his time dictating, since he had begun to realize a sort of pleasure in watching the small hand flitting down the page, as he talked his letters. At last, when Myrella was kept at home for a week with the sprained ankle she had gotten climbing the hill for wild flowers, with Mabel, he became conscious of such a sense of void that he called at the boarding house two or three times, ostensibly to find out when she would be ready for work, but really, because the sight of the little figure in the rear office had begun to assume the aspect of necessity.
When she was at last convalescent, he took her to and from the office in his buggy, and often, after work hours, the ride home was lengthened; and on Sundays it became a habit to drive Myrella and Mabel on little excursions into the near canyons, where, while she and Mabel sat in the cool shade near the stream, he climbed the hill-side, and showered the spoils of his difficult pilgrimages into Myrella's lap, content with the smile she bestowed upon him for his unaccustomed gallantry.
THE fact that the town had noted and commented upon these attentions, was first intimated to him by his partner, who, taking hint from Macy's curt letters, had come out to help straighten the complications in the affairs of the Bluebird.
"It seems the whole town is next to the fact that the stenographer is playing the 'winning wiles' business with deadly effect on you, Macy," said Dartley one evening after Myrella had passed through the outer office on her way home.
Macy met his friend's chaffing with unaccustomed nonchalance.
"It would be more to the purpose if it kept next to its own affairs," he said, smiling.
"Oh, they don't seem to blame you. It seems it was a foregone conclusion that she would make a dead set at you. They look on it as a sort of wolf and lamb affair."
Macy muttered something under his breath.
"I look like a fleece-lamb, don't I?" he asked savagely. "It never occurred to them, I suppose, that a fellow might consider himself in luck, if, by any interposition of Providence, a girl like that might be made to care for him. If she will give me the right, I will gag these malicious bleaters with their own balls of yarn."
"You don't mean to say it's as serious as that?" interrupted Dartley in a startled tone.
"It's as serious as that," said Macy, briefly, "if it's serious at all."
"Why, great heaven, Milt! You can't mean it! It would mean social suicide. Her father's term is nearly out—and you can see what it would mean."
A slight sound in the rear office interrupted Macy's reply, and he went hastily to the door to look inside. There was no one there, and by the time he had turned the key and returned to Dartley, Larkin, the superintendent of the Bluebird had come in, and the conversation was not renewed.
The next morning Mabel brought word that Myrella was not well enough to work; and Mabel, who had been profiting by the latter's private lessons, was installed in her place for the day. The news Larkin had brought the night before was serious enough to keep Macy busy all that day, so that he could not call at Myrella's boarding house, as he intended; and the letter of farewell which came to him next morning found him so bound with the Bluebird troubles that he was helpless to take steps to detain her.
During the remainder of the week, the strike, which by this time was in full bloom, kept him even from the comfort of ascertaining her whereabouts, that he might reply to her note. The latter was a ceaseless undercurrent in his thoughts throughout the period of the trouble; and his heart ached for the hopelessness dimly shown in Myrella's frank explanation of her departure. She had returned for the letters Macy had asked her to post—entering by the rear door in order not to intrude upon the conversation of the two in the front office, and catching the full drift of Dartley's remarks. She had told no one where she was going, but Macy found out at the railway office that she had bought a ticket to San Francisco; and it was only after the Bluebird's troubles were effectually disposed of that he could follow up this clue.
The personals he inserted in the newspapers brought no reply; and the one other means which he resolved to employ to find her seemed so visionary that had it not been his last hope, he would never have considered it. As it was, the end of two weeks found him installed in a suite of offices rented in a business block on Kearney Street, waiting the outcome of his advertisement for a stenographer, which occupied a three-line space in each of the San Francisco dailies.
He engaged the first applicant, a fresh-mannered youth of nineteen years, and set him at work copying mining records in the rear of one of the three rooms, safely beyond hearing of the outer office. He was not prepared for the number of applicants that appeared, and it was not until he saw the abject disappointment pictured in the faces of some of them at the information that the place was taken, that he began to realize the doubtful fairness of his undertaking. After thinking it over, he hit upon the scheme of asking the more seedy and hopeless looking applicants for their addresses on the plea of sending for them in case the present incumbent should not suit; and these persons were dumb-founded later, at receiving a remittance, which Macy sent anonymously, as a return for the trouble they had taken at his behest.
He spent the first day of his amateur detectiveship in nervous watchfulness. Every step that sounded in the hall made his heartbeats quicken; and he could hardly control an impulse to rush to the door, before the usual rap sounded. He spent a week experimenting with his scheme; and two more roaming the crowded streets in the wild hope of catching sight of her; then put his little data into the hands of a detective, and went back to the Bluebird.
A short time afterward he learned that Myrella's father had been released from his long durance, and was believed to have joined his daughter in California—though the strictest search had failed to discover their whereabouts.
Bluebird, in its winter dreariness proved too much for Macy's depressed spirits—overwhelming him finally into deciding to spend the season in San Francisco, where he would have at least the sight and sound of the city's stir to alleviate his loneliness.
A week's time effected the realization that no visual nor aural cheer would affect the void of Myrella's absence. He had no intimate friends, and few acquaintances in the place, and left the hotel one evening in a vain attempt to assuage his growing sense of loneliness by a sight of the city's bravery. The business streets were cheery with glittering lights and gorgeous window dressing; and throngs crowded the sidewalks, smiling, eager, jostling each other with good-natured unconcern. The sight of them, with their arms loaded with bundles—carrying their suggestions of hearthstones and home-ties, brought an unusual tightening to his heartstrings, and after pushing his way along the principal thoroughfares for a time, he found it a relief to turn into the quieter streets. His aloofness from the aims and feelings of the happy, animated crowd made him feel even more alien.
HE had spent months before in strange cities, when their loneliness had brought not a tithe of the sensitiveness he felt now; and he knew that the unusual stress was due to the vivid dream he had lately pictured of a new life, which was to have brought to him the blessed gifts of love and home ties. It made him doubly bitter, as he thought of the ill-chance that had taken from him a cup of happiness that seemed at his very lips. The case seemed hopeless, now, with every clue destroyed; and Myrella's own determination to avoid him hung in the balance of odds.
"Lucky Milton Macy!" the newspaper had called him in the personal that had heralded his arrival, telling of the good fortune that had made a millionaire of the needy civil engineer in the space of a year. Lucky! As if anything counted now in life, if he were to see no more the blue eyes that had shed the first warm rays of actual happiness into his life.
He had grown more morose as he walked on, thinking it over, and turned, with an impatient scowl, as some one jostled against him, suddenly, on the narrow sidewalk. It was a man carrying a parcel on his arm; and though Macy had moved aside, he did not pass, but continued to walk closely at his side. There were people passing on the sidewalk, but not enough to excuse the man's keeping at his elbow; and Macy had just concluded that the individual had indulged in a strong form of liquid cheer, when the man, turning suddenly towards him, spoke:
"Do you see this parcel across my arm?" he said in a confidential tone, such as a friend might have used in discussing the city's sights, or any other common theme; "it is a pistol, and my hand is on the trigger. If you cry out or attempt to move away from me, I will kill you. Go on!" he hissed, as Macy half halted. "I am on the verge of hell, and if you do not save me, you shall die with me as surely as I am telling you this."
He turned his haggard face and burning eyes full upon Macy as he spoke, and the latter, with a vague idea that lunacy was pictured in them, and the certain one that, however it might be, the man was in a deadly mood, walked on beside him. Instinctively he glanced at the parcel the man carried. It lay across the arm nearest him, and through the broken edges of the paper he saw the end of a pistol, with the muzzle pointed within six inches of his heart.
Macy glanced around. The street, though quiet, was far from being deserted, and Macy knew that he had but to cry out to bring a half dozen to his assistance; but before they would be able to realize sufficiently to reach and aid him, the man would have ample time to send a bullet through his heart. To attempt to grapple with him seemed equally hazardous, as his assailant had evidently counted all costs, and would act upon the turn of a finger. Walking leisurely along with his head turned in seeming carelessness toward Macy, the man was watching him as alertly and cautiously as a cat. Despite the seeming absurdity and hazard of the situation, the stranger, so far, had the upper hand; and Macy found himself conscious of a half curious interest and zest in the adventure. While he was undoubtedly at a disadvantage himself, yet, he was so far, not more so than the other, as any attempt to carry out a violent robbery in the sight of the passers-by would, by calling their attention to his desperate purpose, frustrate his own ends. The problem was, what scheme had he resolved upon to carry out his ends? The man did not leave him long in doubt.
"I will give you instructions as to what I wish you to do," he said, "and you will carry them out, without giving me trouble, or suffer what I have threatened. I will tell you once more not to delude yourself with the thought that I don't mean to carry out my purpose. I have been planning this long enough to count all the odds and the costs of failure; and that I have attempted this act in the face of them, should convince you that I will make you suffer first, if the end is to be failure."
"You have been planning this," repeated Macy. "That means, then, that you know me?"
"Your arrival was heralded in the newspapers," said the man. "You millionaires get great headlines, and I have been watching you ever since for this chance. I selected you, chiefly, because you have no family to suffer your loss in case you make things bad for yourself; and secondly, because your being a stranger made it possible to find you sometime off guard, as I have tonight. When you left your hotel this evening I was behind you; and I have been at your elbow ever since."
"What do you propose doing?" asked Macy with increased curiosity.
"I am going to take what money you have with you, and if it is not sufficient for my needs, I shall exact a pledge from you to supply me with more."
Macy smiled. Lunacy, without a shadow of a doubt, was responsible for the adventure.
"Don't think that I am insane, or joking," said the other, as if reading his thoughts, "I imply, simply, that I am going to try the experiment of taking your word, if you give it, and if you fail to keep it, to show you that I can keep mine. Turn here," he said, as they reached the corner; "turn and go north until I tell you to stop."
Macy obeyed. He was in fact experiencing a certain kind of enjoyment in the adventure. It offered a change at least from the lonely room at the hotel to which he dreaded to return, and the worse loneliness of the crowded streets, which he had been glad to shun. As they walked on, the man talked, cool and threateningly at first, but gradually falling into a nervously desperate tone, in which Macy fancied he could detect a note of sincere misery. The story into whose recital he had gradually drifted, was a trite one, of poverty in its direst straits; of want that had driven him to crime—of new hope and energy and moral determination that had upheld him after the long prison term had ended, and of the bitter struggle whose vainness had brought him once more into the shadow of sin.
Macy listened carelessly at first, classing it as the old, unoriginal instinct which prompts the criminal, natural or otherwise, to attempt to palliate his sins in others' eyes, but as he went on there was something personally familiar in the ring of the story, that made Macy's heart beat with a wild hope. When he had at last finished, Macy spoke quietly, with an effort keeping the eagerness out of his tone.
"What you have told me sounds well enough. If it is true, you might certainly stand free from condemnation for this, or any other means you might use, save murder, of alleviating such suffering. I need not tell you, though, how completely used up your material is; the starving wife, the sick child, and all the rest of the business you have put into your story.
"Wait," he went on, as the man was about to interrupt bitterly, "wait. I have not said that I do not believe it. I simply suggest to your intelligence that in order to be able to fully believe, I should have some more positive proof of its truth than your word. Now, I am going to give you a chance. If you can produce the fireless home, the sick and starving child as per your assertions, I pledge you that from tonight, if you do not have: an opportunity to make a man of yourself, it will be your own fault." The man gave a half sob. "You want to see it with your own eyes," he said. "Well, you shall, come." Macy did not know how far, nor hardly in what direction they went, before his companion told him to stop. He had seen the lights of the city thinning gradually out to the suburbs, and heard the waters of the bay lapping the lonely beach shores whose edge they neared, without a sense of fear, and hardly of misgiving. Since the man's involuntary display of conscience, he had a sense of absolute security, as fa as personal violence was concerned; and as to robbery, the worst the -man might do, could not matter, materially, in view of his great wealth, It was with absolute fearlessness that he stopped before the lonely hovel, at whose door the other paused. His companion led the way into a barely furnished room, and paused a moment, listening. Then he stepped noiselessly to a door opening into an inner room, and beckoned Macy to approach. With his heart beating a sledge-hammer tattoo of hope and fear, Macy obeyed and looked beyond him into the room. Lying upon a lounge, the pallor and thinness of her features emphasized by the dark coverlet in which she was wrapped, was Myrella; a shadow of the bright-faced creature he remembered in those last happy weeks at the Bluebird, and yet—-Myrella! He stepped past his companion into the room, and the next moment her blue eyes opened under his gaze. The account chronicled a few days later by the newspapers of the wedding of "Millionaire Macy" and Myrella, was supplemented with the reporter's imaginary story of Mr. John Conroy, the bride's father, who, it stated, had just returned from a seven year's stay at Kimberly, where he had amassed a fortune, to find a daughter whom he had mourned as dead, restored to him through a chance meeting with her affianced husband on the eve of their marriage. Mr. Conroy, they stated in conclusion, had purchased an interest in the famous Bluebird mine, and would take local charge of its affairs while the bridal couple made a tour through Europe. This story published at random, upon tangled threads of facts, was not. Denied; and through the connivance of the few who knew all, so stood for all time. THE RELIEF SOCIETY OF THE CHURCH OF JESUS CHRIST OF LATTER-DAY SAINTS Motto—Charity Never Faileth THE GENERAL BOARD MRS. LOUISE YATES ROBISON MRS. AMY BROWN LYMAN. - -_ MRS. JULIA ALLEMAN CHILD - - MRS, JULIA A. F., So - Mrs. Emma A. Empe Miss Sarah M. McLelland Mrs. Annie Wells Cannon Mrs. Jennie B. Knight Mrs. Lalene H. Hart. Mrs. Lotta Paul Baxter Mrs. Cora L. Bennion Mrs. Mrs. Amy Whipple Evans Mrs. Ethel Reynolds Smith Mrs. Rosannah C. Irvine Miss Alice Louise Reynolds Mrs. Nettie D. Bradford President First Counselor Second Counselor General Secretary and Treasurer Elise B. Alder Mrs, Inez K. Allen Mrs, Ida P. Beal Mrs. Kate M. Barker Mrs, Marcia K. Howells Mrs. Hazel H. Greenwood Mrs. Emeline Y. Nebeker - - - - - Mrs. Lizzie Thomas Edward, Music Director RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Editor Manager - - -: -. - Assistant Manager - Room 20, Bishep's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah Auice Loursz REYNOLDS Louise Y. Rosson Amy Brown Lyman Magazine entered as second-class matter at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah VOL. XVII AUGUST, 1930 No. 8 EDITORIAL ENGLISH WOMEN ONCE MORE NOT a great many years ago, two English women, twins, living in Cambridge, England, became widows. They were childless but not penniless. Wishing to spend their time in some useful way, they began studying the Syriac language. After they had mastered it sufficiently to be able to translate it, they went into Syria and there found a copy of the New Testament in Syriac. This discovery has resulted in a real contribution to the sum total of knowledge regarding the Old Testament and Old Testament manuscripts. In 1925, the Shakespeare Memorial Theatre at Stratford-on-Avon burned to the ground. Plans for a new building were called for. Several were submitted by English architects living in various parts of England, but the one accepted was the work of a young English woman in her early twenties. Now, an. English girl, Amy Johnson by name, makes a flight from the British Isles to Australia, and is very deservedly spoken of as the "lady Lindy." She was accorded an enthusiastic reception on her landing, and at once received a telegram from His Majesty, the King, assuring her of the honor she had brought to herself and to her nation. WELL informed people have generally been impressed with the initiative and energy of English women. Their achievements of recent date put them in a class with the most progressive of women, at a time when women are noted for their progress. 422 RELIEF SOCIERY MAGAZINE The American Mother-Heart By George H. Brimhall tHE beacon light held high by the Goddess of Liberty says welcome! The flutter of our starry banner whispers safety; and the flight-poise of the eagle proclaims purpose. We have written on the monumental page of our history, in bronze and stone, "Millions for defense; for tribute, not a cent." The map of our territorial expansion tells the story of how internal attractions produce external acquisition. A glance at the balance sheet reveals the fact that in our treasury vaults is garnered the gold of the world. We glory in our greatness, the achievements of men. But what of our goodness, the complement of greatness? High in the background of our prosperity, close to God, is a something that has pushed us into the position of moral leadership. That sacred something is the American mother-heart. The heart that has throbbed for us with drumbeat cheer in our early struggles to be free; the heart that beats in unison with the heart of Washington in putting down a whiskey rebellion; a heart with pulsations, seen in "Uncle Tom's Cabin" and heard in the "Battle Hymn of the Republic;" the heart that won the bloodless battle for the freedom of franchise for the better half of our country's citizenry; the heart that has put the weight of our fundamental law upon the heel created to crush the serpent's head; the heart that has dared to "do what is right, let the consequences follow." The American mother-heart has gained strength with the years; once its throbs were scarcely audible beyond the portal of the home, now they are heard in Congressional Halls; once its beatings were petitions, only, now they are demands. Undaunted by the threats of the thirsty the American mother-heart will never beat to a moral retreat. Another Word of Congratulation T the first annual meeting of the Western Branch of the American Public Health Association, held in Salt Lake City fr6m June 12 to 14, Mrs. Amy Brown Lyman, representing the Relief Society, opened the discussion of a paper by Mrs. Sally Lucas Jean on "The Advance of Health Education." Mrs. Lyman presented her discussion in a clear and forcefui manner, as is her wont, accompanied with that enthusiasm so characteristic of her whenever she allies herself with any movement. That she did the organization and herself proud is evidenced by the fact that she was elected a member of the Regional Board' of the Western Branch of the American Public Health Association. We congratulate the cause of public health, as also Mrs. Lyman, on her election. WE are exceedingly happy to be able to felicitate so goodly a number of women ' of our own group during the last few months. We have taken occasion several times recently to remind our readers that our women are being sought for outstanding positions and special work of one sort and another. EDITORIAL A little while ago we drew attention to the part Bertha A. Kleinman played in the writing of the pageant, "The Message of the Ages." Coupled with a good writer, good readers. Are always necessary to bring their work to fullest fruition. Consequently, we wish to express our appreciation for the reading of the pageant done by Miss Maud May Babcock, Mrs. Grace Nixon Stewart, and Mrs. Algie Eggertsen Ballif. We were pleased to have 423 women to match the masterful work of the men. We have drawn attention to the fact that two of our women have recently been honored by official recognition in well known national organizations; and now we take occasion to congratulate Mrs. Margaret P. Maw, for two terms president of the Utah Federation of Women's Clubs, who, a short time ago, was elected president of the Western Division of the General Federation of Women's Clubs. WELFARE WORKER OF GERMANY VISITS SALT LAKE URING early June we had as visitors in our city Mr. And Mrs. Ulich. They came to us from Dresden, Germany. Mr. Ulich is a professor in the University of Leipsic, as also a member of the educational ministry of Germany, while Mrs. Ulich is interested in welfare work. Oye thing in relation to this interesting couple that will appeal to Latter-day Saints is that they do not themselves use liquor, tobacco, tea or coffee, and they are officially connected with an organization that is fostering this mode of life among the people of Germany. Many thousands in their country have pledged themselves not to use liquor, tobacco, tea or coffee. Apart from this Mrs. Ulich, who is of Swedish extraction, is interested in promoting some very vital social work. She says despite all their efforts to avert it, 125,000 soldiers, prisoners of the central forces, starved to death during the World War in Siberia. Now, she is interested. In a kindergarten in Dresden that is helping many of the children who were deprived of their fathers during the war. After these many years, some of the fathers are returning to their families, but they seem strange to the children, and this estrangement the fathers feel keenly. Through Mrs. Ulich's good offices, they are put where they can be cared for until adjustments may be made—put, as she explained it, where somebody understands and refrains from asking them questions that are of necessity both painful and embarrassing. Photo Courtesy Ogden Chamber of Commerce LEANING ROCK, OGDEN CANYON The Message of Leaning Rock By Glen Perrins canyon, reminds one of the Leaning Tower of Pisa. Standing guard near the mouth of the picturesque gorge carved through the rock formations by a large, swift river in Lake Bonneville days, Leaning Rock has withstood the erosion of Mother Nature. Today automobiles whiz around Leaning Rock, but often one sees a nature-lover gazing silently at this massive pile of stone set in this beauty spot. Could this freak of nature but talk he would perhaps tell of the days before the paved road came when Peter Skene Ogden trapped beaver and traded pelts with the Indians, or perhaps Leaning Rock might tell of the days before that: when a mad, dashing torrent raged down through Ogden canyon and poured into the huge Lake Bonneville. It is interesting to ponder over the secrets of the ages which Leaning Rock holds locked within his jagged breast. THE PROUD POPLARS Like human sentries, green poplars in a row stand guard at the head of Ogden canyon, rearing their heads aloft as if proud of the scenic wonders they control. MORNING PRAYER By Bee Parsons Dear God, Among Your labors of this day Is there some task for me to do? Just some small thing— A smile to give, A song, A word, A thought, A prayer, A measure of sympathy, A labor done for love?. Dear God, For these I do not seek reward. In the joy of giving is my pay— Just let me help! The Little Grandmother By Lucy R. Scott MY mother, Ellen Lewis, and M my father, William Lane, lived in the little factory town of Crewkerne, in Somersetshire, England. They were very poor, because they were weavers; and in those days weavers received a very small wage, fifteen shillings a week at the most. So what with rent to pay, and food and clothing to provide, each member of the family who was old enough was obliged to obtain work in the factories and mills to provide just the bare. Necessities of life. There was nothing left after these were taken care of, tor books, nor to pay for schooling; for there were no free schools in England at that time. Into this household I canze on the tenth day of October, 1854, during the reign of good Queen Victoria. I remember the stone floors, the open fireplace where Mother did all her cooking, and the hob-where the kettles were placed. There were no stoves and we had no ovens, so all our bread and meats were baked at the public bakery. As soon as I was old enough I was sent to an Infants' School, for which Mother paid a penny each week. This school was similar to the kindergarten, but its main purpose was to care for the little ones so that the mothers and older ones in the family would be free to find work, I remember that we were taught to knit and to sew. Father and Mother were both members of the Church at the time of their marriage, and at this time he had become president of the branch. From the first they had planned on emigrating to Utah; but as the children came and expenses grew, they found it impossible to save even the small amount for their passage money. There was only one course open for us ever to realize our dreams. Father borrowed money enough to take himself alone to America. He went as far west as Philadelphia, where he found work on a fine estate of an old Quaker gentleman, Mr. William Sellars. It took him over three long years to pay off his debts and to save money enough to pay the passage of his loved ones. Meanwhile, in England, Mother worked and hoped and prayed, saving what she could of her small earnings.
THEN, one wonderful day, the postman came with the letter containing the money which was to take us to Father and America. How impatient I was to go! So much to be done, so many little things for older heads to worry about, that it seemed to my childish mind that we never, never would begin our journey. But one day we finally found ourselves, bag and baggage, on the docks and ready to embark. Even then there was some last errand that Mother had to run, and thinking that she would be back in a few moments, she left us huddled among the trunks and bundles. The minutes lengthened into an anxious hour and then in spite of tears and protests we were bundled into a small boat and carried out to the big ship, William Tapscott, which rode at anchor in the bay, ready to set sail for America. Sailing time and no mother! As the shadows lengthened, our fears and anxiety increased. Then, just a few minutes before the anchor was raised, a boat drew up alongside and a number of people were hurried on board. There was Mother, her dear face white with worry and anxiety. Soon we were safe in each other's arms, too happy for anything but tears.
There were not beds enough to go around, so I was assigned to sleep with a big, fat woman. I undressed and climbed into the berth. There wasn't any too much room for me, and when Mrs. Avoirdupois decided to come to bed she stuck a hard roll of her belongings under my head, squeezed me tight against the wall, and was soon sleeping. She woke up once long enough to roll over and say, "Can't ye shut up? I wants me sleep." To this day I hate to sleep next to a wall. The roll of the ship, the strange squeaks and gratings and other noises and the smothered feeling and the discomfort of that hard roll I was obliged to use for a pillow, made too deep an impression to be easily overcome.
MY recollection of the boat consists of long passageways, row upon row of berths, and a railing where I could stand and watch those on the deck below us. One day I saw them eating pancakes. After the hard ship-biscuit, which we ate in lieu of bread, how good they looked. Mother prepared all of our meals, but I missed the bread. After watching the feast on the lower deck the ship-biscuit seemed harder and drier than ever. One day we were able to purchase some fresh supplies from a passing vessel. Among them was some fresh bread. No pie or cake or candy ever tasted quite so good to me.
One day in mid-ocean the ship sprang a leak. The anchor was lowered while the pumps were set to work. I heard a sailor report that the trunk room was being flooded. Happy childhood! Little sensed I of the real danger that threatened us. It was barely noon. I went by myself, knelt down, and with full childish faith I prayed: "Our Father in heaven, please don't let my new dress get wet." And I finished up with "Now I lay me down to sleep. I pray the Lord my soul to keep. If I should die before I wake, I pray the Lord my soul to take. Amen." I think the listening angels must have smiled at that prayer; but in spite of the fact that my dress was in the very bottom of the trunk it was not damaged in the least.
We found so many interesting things to do that the voyage of six weeks did not seem nearly so irksome to us as it did to the grownups; but when someone shouted, "Land, I see land," I believe Columbus himself couldn't have been much happier than we were. Many were crying, though of course I couldn't then understand why. What a bustle, packing up our things we had used during the voyage, running errands and watching the sailors at their work. We were landed at a place called Castle Garden. I remember that we stayed there over night. Father came here to meet us. For three years I had dreamed of seeing him again; but when he came I failed at first to recognize him. We were all very happy, but again I could not see what there was to cry about.
WHEN we got off the train at Philadelphia, I saw for the first time street cars drawn by horses. As Mr. Sellars' estate was some miles out from the city, we boarded one of these funny-looking little cars and away we went. For the first time I saw green fields and rolling meadows and heard the birds sing. The trees were all in blossom. The meadows were a rolling carpet of green and gold. It seemed as though all the birds in the world were singing a welcome to us. Gone were the grimy factory days. Now Mother could stay at home, and we had Father with us once more. How we reveled in the beauties of the country—the birds, the flowers and the woods, and the blackberry hedges! I heard the frogs singing in the swamp, and the owls and the whippoorwills. My bedroom window overlooked the woods; and on a still, moonlit night I could hear the water in the mill race, singing over the stones.
We children joined a Sunday School class, and were allowed to take home books from the library. I remember one of these especially, "Little Jane." Little Jane was a very, very good little girl, who lived with a very, very sinful family. Besides being imposed upon in fifty different ways, she was never allowed to go to church. All day Sunday she baked and brewed and stewed enough food to last that family the rest of the week. I felt sorry for her. "I'll not do that when I have a home," I promised myself. "I won't do any cooking on Sunday." It is a rule that I have since followed, though it had its source in the impossible "Little Jane."
One of the most beautiful memories that I have is of the Sabbath peace that blessed our dear home. Our family group would gather around the grate fire and listen to the wonderful stories that Mother would tell us. The songs we sang: old English ballads, "Lord Bateman" and "The Mistletoe Bough," especially, "I Think When I Read That Sweet Story of Old," "Happy Day," and other good old hymns. The stories of Jesus, as Mother told them, made us feel that God was a loving Father who loved little children more than anyone else. The preachers of those days were of the fire and brimstone order; and I used to sit in church with every hair standing on end from sheer terror of the awful pictures they drew of hell and the judgment day. Soon after listening to one such terrorizer, a violent storm broke over the country. As one peal of thunder topping another boomed across the heavens, I fled to my room and prayed wildly: "O Lord, it's the end of the world. Please don't burn me up in everlasting hell fire. I won't grumble when I have to do the dishes any more, an' I won't ask for two pieces of cake. I know I'm awful wicked. But I'll try so hard to be good." I am glad for the sake of little children that Christian views have changed, and that this type of sermon isn't to be heard nowadays.
School Days
IN the fall my sisters and I were sent to school. Quite a different school from the school which you children attend nowadays. Our teacher was very tall, very severe looking and very conscientious. She neither spared the rod nor spoiled the child. Small chance there was for shirking under her eagle eye, and though we were whipped for many things one would not dream of whipping a child for today, we learned many a wholesome lesson while in her charge.
There being no school on Saturdays, we spent many wonderful, golden days out in the woods gathering hickory nuts, walnuts and chestnuts to store up for the winter fireside. One Saturday while on one of these expeditions we wandered out of the woods into a place known as "The Meadows." But how unfamiliar was the scene which met our childish eyes. Instead of the carpet of rolling green we had been wont to see, was an army of white tents and, out in an open space, companies of soldiers all in blue uniforms were marching and countermarching and being drilled in all the maneuvers of war. We watched them with fascinated eyes, until a bugle call and lowering of the Stars and Stripes finished the drill for the day. When we told Mother about it she said that there was war between the North and the South and that these were President Lincoln's soldiers preparing to go out and fight for the Union. Mother glanced at Father's picture and looked anxious and worried. "Will Father have to go?" we asked. "Perhaps," she answered. "This is our country now."
MOTHER spent much of her time these days sewing, making dainty little white garments, lace-trimmed and tucked. And as often as she sewed she would tell us more wonderful stories. These days her smile was very tender and sweet, but I often saw a look of pain flit across her face as she looked towards the meadows where the men other mothers had borne were marching away in the glory of their young manhood, many of them to die for their country. Oh, it is hard for mothers to feel the thrill, or to appreciate the glory of war! Too well they know the bitter sacrifice.
Vacation Days
SPRING came and with it the last day of school. What excitement there was. This was the day on which we were put on show before our family and friends. We were put through our paces by the school committee. Awards of merit and prizes were given to lucky ones. I was to "speak a piece," so I must look extra fine for the occasion. These were the days of pinafores and pantalets and for this event my pinafore was new. My pantalets, as an added touch, had some lace, intended for quite another purpose, basted to the bottoms for trimming. Away I went, proud as a peacock, and took my place among the other children who sat like little ram rods of propriety, hands neatly folded, faces to the front, wearing for this day alone, expressions that would have graced the faces of an angel choir. When my name was called I arose, gave a satisfied glance of pride at my new dress and the lace that ruffled so daintily on the pantalets beneath it, walked primly up to the front, made my best bow and then began: "England's sons—" I had not gone very far when something slipped around my ankle. A stolen glance showed a dangling end of lace. Then I saw Tom Shore grin. Up went my head. Not for worlds would I quit! So I finished my lines in a round of hearty applause, though the lace slipped farther and farther. "That was fine," someone whispered. Then Tom Shore, with a voice that sounded like gleeful satisfaction, made me feel like fighting by saying, "Ya, but you nearly lost yer pants." Then came the speeches and awards. Balm to sore mortification and hurt pride, I was awarded a Bible for being the "best student in the school." Its leaves are worn and yellow with age, but I still have it among my most treasured possessions.
SOON after school closed my brother Willie was born. My elder sister, Rose, did her best to take Mother's place with the housework, and then when Mother was strong again there was the new baby to tend, so Martha and I were left pretty much to our own devices. It was early summer and haying time, and we fairly reveled in the joys of the great outdoors. I can still smell the sweet warm fragrance of the freshly cut hay, as it lay drying in the summer sunshine. How thrilled we were when we were allowed to ride atop of the great wobbly loads as they were hauled to the stack yard! The hay was unloaded and pitched into great, carefully rounded stacks. The stack yard proved a very fascinating place to play and all went well until one day we found a ladder against one of the very tallest stacks. The temptation to climb to the top was not to be resisted, so up we went like Jack in the Beanstalk. Then after a few breath-taking, frightened moments, we found ourselves on top of the stack. Again like Jack, in a wonderful fairyland of forest and castle, broad fields and meadows stretching away as far as our delighted eyes could see. We played in blissful contentment for some time, catching the different colored grasshoppers or lying on our backs finding cloud pictures. When we grew tired and were ready to get down, somehow the green, sloping sides of the stack looked much more inviting than did the ladder. It goes without saying that we slid down. The thrill was perfect and we carried enough loose hay down with us to make a perfect landing. Of course every joy, especially when you're little, must come to an end. Ours came in the shape of an entirely unsympathetic grown-up in the person of my father. "You youngsters keep off that hay," he cried, picking up a pitchfork and disappearing around a neighboring stack. Why did grown-ups make it so hard for children anyhow? They didn't seem to know what real fun was. Half in rebellion, half in reluctance to abandon immediately the thing that had given us so much fun, up the ladder we climbed again and down we came sliding. Somehow the zest was gone and this time the landing was anything but perfect; but the spanking which we promptly received was. I think Father gave it to us more in sheer relief that our necks weren't broken than as a punishment for ruining a haystack. We were sent to bed in disgrace and without our supper. It was stern justice, but we deserved it. We cried and compared the marks which the sting of the willow had left on our bodies. I had the most because I was older than Martha and was expected to set her a good example. As it grew dark Mother brought us up some bread and milk. We ate and were comforted. Truly repentant and at peace with the whole world, we soon fell asleep. We had learned our lesson. When Father said a thing he meant it, and never again did we wilfully disobey him.
One day soon after this we were playing in the meadows where we saw some fishermen with rods over their shoulders, on their way to the mill pond to fish. This promptly suggested a new idea. "Let's go fishing," I cried. "Let's," cried Martha joyously. So in just a few minutes, proudly carrying green willow poles, some string and bent pins, we were marching down to the mill race. We sat down in the middle of a narrow foot-board which spanned the race and promptly threw in our lines. We did not even get a nibble, but we were having real fun in pretending when in some way Martha lost her balance and fell into the water below. I tried to reach her, but failing this I ran frantically along the bank calling, "Martha, O Martha." Then sensing that I couldn't get her, I ran screaming for Mother. She heard me and came running towards me. Into the stream she rushed, only to mire helplessly in the soft mud bottom. Someone pulled her back and when she saw Martha come up to the surface of the water only to sink out of sight, she fainted. Someone had gone for Father. Meanwhile, the Irish gardener, having heard our excited cries, had hurried over, his rake still in his hand. He waded in and reached with his rake until he caught Martha's clothes. Father came up just in time to take her apparently lifeless body in his arms. He carried her swiftly to the carriage house and worked frantically over her. Soon she gave a weak moan. "Where's your mother?" he said to me. "Dead, down by the willows," I sobbed. Father, working desperately with Martha, cried, "Run child, run and stay with her until I can come." When I reached the willows Mother had regained consciousness and I cried, "Mother, Oh Mother, come quick, Martha is alive." But poor Mother only shook her head and moaned, "No she isn't, no she isn't; I saw her go down and she won't come up any more." Even now I can see her hanging on to the fence, too weak to stand alone, pulling herself along back to the house. It was a long time before she recovered from the shock. Sometimes at night she would steal out of the house and we would find her walking the banks of the stream, wringing her hands and moaning and crying for Martha. Father would lead her back to the house and put Martha in her arms. Then she would be comforted. She gradually grew better, but it took a long time.
Preparation
THE months that followed were fairly happy and prosperous ones and it began to look as though our dream of gathering with the Saints in Utah might find an early fulfilment. Mother's sister had already emigrated; Father's brother had reached America and was living in Philadelphia. Then my brother Eddie was born. Welcome as his coming was, of course, it meant extra expense and a little harder struggle to put by even a small amount. Then Father was kicked by a horse and his leg severely injured—an injury which was followed by an attack of rheumatism. He found it very painful and difficult to attend to even a small part of his work. One day a friend, seeing the difficulty, said, "Mr. Lane, I know what will cure your rheumatism. You get some hartshorn, camphor, laudanum and sweet oil and rub it on your leg and it will cure it." I stood by his side, and he turned and said, "Eliza, run to the drug store and get it for me." I write this incident, trivial in itself, to illustrate how vividly children receive impressions. I've never forgotten a single ingredient of that liniment in all these years.
Mother would rub Father's limbs with this liniment and he did get well for a short time at least. But a swim in the creek at the close of a hard day's work gave him a heavy chill. In spite of all Mother could do, he grew rapidly worse. His rheumatism came back, more severe this time, afflicting his heart and kidneys. Three doctors, under Mr. Sellars' instructions, held a consultation and on the morning of my ninth birthday, they took him away to the hospital, in Philadelphia. "Why Father," I cried, "don't you know it's my birthday and you are going away." "Yes, dear child," he said, "and that will be something for you to remember me by."
Mother was nearing another confinement, and under the circumstances she was denied the solace and comfort of being able to see him or be near him. Not more than twice a week was she able to go into Philadelphia to visit him and take him clean clothing. One day at the hospital, Father asked for his brother. As soon as the message reached Uncle Alfred, he hurried to the hospital, only to be refused admittance as it was past visiting hours. "But he's my brother, he's sent for me and needs me," and brushing past the attendant he hurried to Father's bedside. "William, shall I send for Ellen?" he asked. "No, Alfred, I'm going. There isn't time." For some minutes they talked. A woman, whose duty was to administer comfort to the dying, came into the room, and true to her faith and her duty, said, "My good man, I hope you have made your peace with Jesus. I hope you have not left it till this late hour." Father smiled faintly and whispered, "Oh no."
When I saw Uncle Alfred coming through our gate, childlike, I ran to meet him. "How is Father?" I cried. "Your father is dead," was his answer. Not sensing the terrible significance of this news, I ran to Mother, and cried out in unthinking innocence, "Mother, Father is dead." Then I saw her face whiten in agony as she slipped from her chair in a faint.
PEOPLE were very kind to us. We were almost entirely without means. After the funeral, Mr. Sellars held a conference with Mother and Uncle Alfred. He told her as gently as he could that another man was to take Father's place and that she would have to find quarters elsewhere, but he had made arrangements for her to go to the hospital for her confinement. Rose made her home with Mr. Sellars' family. Martha went to some of his friends by the name of Leisering; the two boys were placed in an orphans' home, and I was to be sent to Philadelphia to Mrs. Bancroft, a married daughter of Mr. Sellars'. How well I remember that parting—Mother laying her dear hands on my head in wordless blessing—the sudden wild grief that took possession of me. "Oh Mother! Mother! I don't want to go," I sobbed. "I don't want to go. I don't care if we don't have anything to eat but bread, I want to stay. Please, Mother, let me stay with you." "My poor child," she gently answered, "but I haven't even bread for you." As we both cried, I began to sense that my grief distressed Mother, and that I must be brave and do my bit to help, so wiping my eyes and trying to smile I went off to Philadelphia.
MRS. BANCROFT lived in a beautiful home on Vine Street. She had me sleep with the cook, and gave me as a household duty the task of helping in the kitchen. Somehow the cook resented this very much, and was anything but agreeable to me. In fact, she made my life so unpleasant that kind Mrs. Bancroft moved me from the cook's room and gave me a trundle bed to sleep in and changed my work from the kitchen to the dining room and nursery. In spite of the kindness of this splendid Quaker family, I had many bitter hours, and many nights when my pillow would be wet with homesick tears. I went to school part of the time, a girls' school, as then the boys and girls met in different buildings. I made friends with a girl whose brother was an officer in the Union army. She was very proud of him and we had many pleasant talks together. Then for the first time I heard the muffled drum as it beat its tattoo to the slow measured tread of the feet that carried some patriot to his last resting place. As the war went on, the sound of the drums became more frequent, and soon not a day passed that its mournful roll failed to be heard in the streets of Philadelphia. My young friend's brother was among those who laid down their lives for their country. We went to see him as he lay in state in his uniform of blue, under the flag he had given his young life to defend.
LIVING in Philadelphia, and working for her living, was an older half-sister, Harriet, a daughter of Father's first wife, who died when she was two years old. She used to come to see me. Her visits were very welcome, you may be sure. She never failed to bring an orange or a bit of candy or some little gifts that she knew would gladden my childish heart. Uncle Alfred lived there, and though I had heard him describe his home, I had never seen it. One day I decided to go and visit my Uncle's family, so off I set after I had prayed earnestly to be shown the way. It was a very astonished uncle and aunt that I saw as I walked up to their door, for find it I truly did, though other than my prayer I asked no directions.
AFTER baby Charles was born, Mother rented a small room in Philadelphia. Then came the yearning for her children! What was she to do? Mr. Sellars offered the only solution that she saw possible. Feeling sure that Mother would see the wisdom of his decision, he had had papers made out "binding out" the older children of the family until they should become of age, and brought them to Mother to sign. Poor Mother! Mr. Sellars had been kind. She begged time to consider his offer, so he left, promising to call the next day for the signed paper. Her dreams of going to Utah seemed utterly impossible. She sought Divine help in her great need. "The dead do come back when there is real need for it," said Mother, in telling her experiences in the years that followed. "Three times that night your father appeared in my room and each time he said, 'Don't bind the children.' I was not asleep. I actually saw him." Mr. Sellars tried to get her to change her mind, and became almost exasperated when she steadily refused. "What are you going to do?" Mother thought of Utah and all it meant to her, and raising her head with a certain conviction, she answered him. "I am going home." He said no more.
There was a branch of the Church here at this time, to which Mother and Father had been able to go only occasionally, as it had meant a long ride on the cars for them. The children, rather than receive no religious training, had attended a Presbyterian Sunday School. Mother had said with firm conviction, "I am going home." But as far as human eyes could see, "going home" meant insurmountable difficulties. Once more "man's extremity proved God's opportunity." While Mother sat in Sunday meeting the president of the branch arose and announced that on the following Wednesday a company of emigrants was leaving for Utah, and that means had been provided for Sister Lane and her children to go with them. Mother's prayer had received its answer.
Orson Pratt and Hyrum Clawson were the speakers, and after the meeting was over, they both came to Mother. Orson Pratt placed $2.50 in her hand saying, "I am on my way to England. I have enough money to get me there, and I am sure you need this worse than I do." Brother Clawson gave her $5.00. They shook hands with her and spoke words of encouragement and cheer. Some of the sisters, Sister Ware and Sister Fenton especially, were willing and anxious to help. There was much hurried preparation to be ready in time. Mrs. Bancroft cried when Mother came for me. "She is so dependable," she told Mother, "that I can trust her implicitly in all things." That was a splendid compliment to live up to.
Then I came in sensible contact with some of the bitterness that existed against the Church in those days. When Mr. Sellars saw our arrangement for leaving, and came to tell Mother goodbye, he said, "Well, I'm glad you are going back to England instead of with those 'Mormons.' Had you decided to go with them, I certainly would have taken steps to have those children taken away from you." Mother did not tell him that "home" meant Utah. She was soon on her way to New York. We each had a bundle to look after. I'm sure Mother found it quite a handful to keep track of us all—Rosie, Eliza, Martha, Willie, Eddie, and baby Charlie—to say nothing of the bundles. Here we took the train for the little town of Wyoming on the banks of the muddy Missouri river, where we were to wait until a company of emigrants from England joined us before proceeding west by ox team.
The Long Trail
HOW vividly I remember the little town of Wyoming on the Missouri, just one thousand miles from Utah! What a change from the green woods and meadows of Pennsylvania. So desolate and wild. The Missouri, just one big river of mud, flowing out of a somewhere, sluggishly past, and on into a nowhere! "However can we wash our clothes in this," was my uppermost thought and I was really greatly relieved when I found that all the washing was to be done at a spring pleasantly situated in a group of trees, near the camp. Here also we had our first experience at sleeping in the great out-of-doors—a rather terrifying one until we got used to it. Every single night, it seemed to me, it stormed. The inky darkness would be broken by sudden, blinding flashes of lightning, and the steady howl of the storm, by roars of rolling thunder. The seven of us huddled even closer together, but not even tent wall and bedclothes could shut out the blinding flashes of light, nor deaden but very little the terrific claps of thunder. Then, one awful night, the tent blew down, the pole falling across Mother's neck in such a way that she was left utterly powerless, either to call for help or to assist herself. She must have soon died had not Rose, sensing her peril, managed to move the heavy pole in such a way that her neck was freed.
Supplies were issued from a store house centrally located. We did our cooking over bonfires. We lived like this about a month or six weeks. Then we were joined by a company of Saints who were emigrating from England.
One day came the glad shout, "The ox-teams are coming, the ox-teams are coming!" Everybody turned out to give them welcome, as they lumbered slowly into camp—a long train of covered wagons, each drawn by yokes of oxen. This was the train which was to take us to Utah, each outfit being furnished by men who had been called on a mission, by President Young, to meet the emigrants and bring them on to Utah. We were all happy and anxious to get started on our way, little sensing, any of us, what a long, tedious journey it was to be, and little sensing the trials and hardships we were to encounter, but bravely ready for whatever fate held in store for us.
The train was in charge of Brother Warren Snow. Our outfit was in charge of Brother Frank Cundick. Besides our seven, there was a feeble, old lady, sick and ailing, who was assigned to ride with us. Baby Charlie was assigned to Rose's special care, and little Eddie to mine. They were both beautiful children, rosy and healthy, giving every promise of growing to a strong and sturdy manhood. After what seemed many days, we bade Wyoming goodbye, and turned our faces westward.
Conditions were too crowded for us all to ride at the same time, so those who were able, took turns in walking. We would fill our aprons with dry buffalo chips as we walked, or with anything that would burn, and these would be used to make our camp fire. Then, one day, Mother discovered that the bundle containing Rose's clothing and shoes had been left behind, with other luggage belonging to the train. Poor Rose! Her feet grew sore and cracked. One day I heard her scream, and running to her, found that she had stepped upon a prickly pear. The blood was falling in drops from her wounded foot; she would not let me pull the thorns out. I helped her all that I could and finally we hobbled into camp. Her foot was growing more painful. "That cactus must come out," I thought, and then aloud, I cried, "Look Rose, Indians, quick," and as she turned her head to look, I jerked the cactus out of her foot, before she had even time to say "ouch." My own fingers were filled with thorns, but we soon got them out, then found Mother. We cooked our meal over the campfire and went to bed. In spite of the strange night cries of prowling beasts and birds, we slept soundly through the cool, sweet night. The next morning we were up at sunrise, fresh and ready for the long day's march. Rose's foot was still somewhat sore. "Do you know," said Mother, "that last night I dreamed that your shoes were coming and that they will be here today. I am sure they will." To our great joy they did come, along with the rest of the missing luggage, save some that had been stolen. Mother's dreams often came true.
Our money, fifty or sixty dollars, all we had in the world, was missing. Then one night Mother dreamed that she saw it sewed up in a feather bed. When she awoke she arose and looked for it, and found it just as her dream had shown her.
One day the old lady with us died, the first of our band who didn't finish the "journey through." They made her a grave at the side of the trail. Then watering places grew scarce. And we were obliged to buy our drinking water at 25c per keg. It was not always good water at that, for dysentery broke out among us, a condition which proved to be very serious to many of us. The woman in the wagon ahead of us died. Mother was very ill, and so were the two children. Brother John Kay, a young man returning from a mission, was stricken. A side was taken from a wagon to make him a coffin. For little Charlie there was not a thing that could be utilized to make him even a rude coffin. Mother tore a shawl in half, and we left him sleeping by the long trail. Later, the other half was used for little Eddie.
Sick, disheartened, and weary, we had to carry on. I remember one cold, wet day, in particular: We had kept huddled up for warmth in the wagon all day, while the rain beat its monotonous tattoo on our canvas roof. When we stopped for the night, fires were out of the question. We were hungry and went to bed crying for something to eat. Next morning Mother climbed out of the wagon. Through the drizzling rain and mist she saw a little old shack, with smoke pushing its way out of the chimney. She made her way to it and as the door opened to her knock, there greeted her a rush of warm air, fragrant with the odor of frying meat. "Will you sell me some bread?" she asked of the woman who had answered the door. "We haven't any to spare," she replied, but seeing how sick and weak Mother looked, she said, "We are just going to have a bite, come in and eat with us." "I cannot eat; my children are hungry." "You shall eat," she insisted, "and you shall have bread for your little ones even if we have to go without." When Mother came back, we were all out on the wagon tongue. She broke the bread in chunks and handed us each a piece.
Eddie died as we were nearing Green River. This final stroke proved too much for Mother, and she became very, very ill. One day, as Rose and I came near the wagon, we heard voices. "Yes, Sister Lane, your children will be cared for." The wild fear that arose in my breast seemed to smother me. Baby Charlie and Eddie, and now Mother! Taking my sister by the hand, we ran off some distance into the sage brush and kneeling down we prayed in all our childish anguish, "Please, Heavenly Father, don't let our mother die. Please make her better, in the name of Jesus. Amen." We felt sure then that she would get well. Next morning she was very much better, and after some days she was trying again to take her share of the burdens.
One day we passed large, white saleratus beds. Mother had read of saleratus biscuits, and as we were nearing our journey's end, food supplies were running rather low. Mother decided we were going to have hot biscuits, so with a zeal not backed up by knowledge, she made them. We ate them, for the bitter flavor was entirely outdone by their delectable rich orange coloring.
We had not much trouble in fording the streams as it was autumn, and rivers were comparatively low. A preceding train had made a good ford over one river, the Platte, I believe. This was spanned by a toll bridge, but the keeper refused to let the train (Homer Duncan's, by the way) cross it, not even to carry their flour across, giving one flimsy excuse after another. Anyway, the men grew disgusted, and though the keeper tried to dissuade them, they dug a roadway down either bank and established a very good ford, one used by all succeeding trains, whether 'Mormon' or not, much to the discomfiture of the toll keeper.
The last day of our journey our food gave out, and we became really hungry. Towards evening we entered Emigration canyon. As we came into the valley, we could see in the distance the glow of the big bonfires that had been lighted to welcome us. About ten o'clock we stopped at the square where the City and County Building now stands. Such a welcome as we received! Such a laughing and crying, such hugs and kisses! Soon we were seated around the big fire, while willing hands, backed by warm hearts, served us with everything that the little settlement afforded in the way of delicious hot food. There were mashed potatoes, and gravy, chicken, vegetables, pie and cake. Then when we just couldn't cram another delicious morsel, I noticed, by the light of the fire, a tempting green slope. "Come on," I said to the girls, "let's roll down here!" and roll we did, to our heart's content, entirely unreproved by the older folk. They were "home" at last and too happy to notice us.
Moods of the Mountains
By Helen McQuarrie Evans
The mountains are angry today, dear,
They have veiled themselves from our view
With a frowning mist that is dark and drear,
And the skies are weeping too.
O! Ye snowcapped sentinels,
List; We could be joyous and glad today,
Could we see the sunshine in thy midst
To send all those clouds away.
O! look at yonder sunbeams
Dancing their way through the mist,
The grim old peaks have caught the gleam
That the gloom would have them resist.
How quickly the sunlight travels along
And we gaze on the radiance up there,
Till me thinks of a glorified throng
And beautiful cities, pure and fair.
Real Lace
By Ruth Partridge Richan
THE young lawyer faced the blue-eyed nurse across his expensive desk.
"And did you put the real lace handkerchief in her hand?"
"Yes indeed, although I was tempted to sell it to help you pay her funeral expenses. She had always been particularly insistent that I put it in her hand, so I just couldn't sell it. Yes, she has it with her. I'm sure it was worth a good deal and would have saved you considerable money."
"It was worth a great deal. A rare piece of old Venetian point. She carried it at her wedding. As for the money, she told you she had plenty for her funeral."
The little nurse laughed.
"YES, I know. She also told me I could have what was left over, bless her old heart. Said it would pay me for my trouble. I know of course, she was practically penniless. A hundred or two perhaps seemed a lot to her. Her funeral cost $500.00. There will be quite a balance for you to pay, but I did as you said and made everything nice."
"Yes. You went to a great deal of trouble to satisfy the dying request of an old lady, a stranger to you, Miss Tridge."
"No, no, really. You see, I knew just how she felt. It seemed somehow as if it were I. It's rather hard to explain, but I can appreciate her feelings because—well, I'm all alone myself and if I should die tonight—there isn't anyone—don't you see? Unless some stranger offered—really it's awful to be so alone, Mr. Kane."
"But your people, where are they?"
"LOST at sea. I haven't even the consolation of their graves. All my life I've had a horror of dying alone and friendless. When old Mrs. Gage made me promise I would have her buried like one of my own, why it would have been impossible to deny her. The very fact that she had to ask me, a stranger, for such a favor made it all the more pathetic. Oh, I understand it too well."
"When I bought clothes I thought over and over to myself, 'I wonder who would take care of me if I should die tonight.' The undertaker let me dress her and comb her hair. All my heart was in it as if she were my own."
The little nurse stood up suddenly; there were tears in her eyes.
"You are the one who deserves credit, Mr. Kane. Few men would shoulder the expense of an old lady's funeral simply because she was a friend of their grandfather. I'm glad it happened. It has been a lovely experience. I must go now. Goodbye, Mr. Kane."
(How handsome he is—how kind his eyes are!)
(How tired she looks. Works like a slave, I'll wager. Game little sport, too.)
"Sit down, Miss Tridge. I have something else to settle. There is a bit of her money left over after all your efforts to spend it. At least you will have a few real lace 'hankies.' Mrs. Gage had one of the finest private collections of real lace in America."
"Goodness me!"
"After my grandfather died, I became administrator for Mrs. Gage's estate. About three years ago we had a talk. Even then the horror of dying alone was uppermost in her thoughts. 'Jimmy,' she said, 'You are all I have in the world. If I'm stricken among strangers I'll send someone to you with a sealed letter, and you do just as it says. Now promise.' So I promised. Three days ago you brought me the sealed letter. Aren't you at all curious to know what is in it?"
"Just an introduction."
"Yes—and more. Listen."
"Dear Jimmy: I'm going to die. The bearer of this letter is my little nurse at the hospital where they took me after the accident. She has been very kind to me and I know she will do with me as she has promised after I'm gone. I think she's a rare piece of lace, Jimmy, delicate and genuine. I want to add her to my collection, but it's too late. I'll have to add the collection to her. She's to have everything if my estimation of her is true. If I've made a mistake and she's cheap imitation, use my money to build a home for cats. I hate cats. It is my wish that you manage her estate—and herself, too, if possible.'
"And now Jimmy, goodbye: thanks to you both for being kind to a funny old woman.'
"Miss Tridge, after paying all the expenses for the beautiful funeral you made possible, I find that you will receive about $50,000 besides the real lace."
"But Mr. Kane, there must be some mistake, I—"
"No mistake, and now as your legal advisor, I suggest we have dinner together and then—"
"And then, please could I see the real lace. I want to pick out a handkerchief to wear—"
"At our wedding?"
"Jimmy!"
[ADVERTISEMENT]
BE SURE TO VISIT THE L. D. S. BUSINESS COLLEGE BEFORE YOU ENROLL FOR YOUR BUSINESS TRAINING
"THE BEST FOR THE LEAST COST"
Enter Any Monday
L. D. S. BUSINESS COLLEGE
WASATCH 1812
Family Life Today
Edited by Margaret E. Rich
By Lois V. Hales
IN 1877 the first Charity Organization Society was founded at Buffalo, New York. In 1927 a three-day conference was held, again in Buffalo, under the auspices of the American Association for Organizing Family Social Work. Family Life Today is made up of papers on "The Family" delivered at this conference.
Family life was considered from many points of view, for it touches all fields of human activity. The family belongs to all members of society. A cross-section of scientific thought concerning the family was obtained through papers delivered by biologists, sociologists, ministers, teachers, social workers, etc. Based on actual conditions today, the future of the family in America was discussed. The family was "used as a touchstone for evaluating the lasting worth of present-day industrial, educational, religious, and other social institutions."
Much is being written about the family. Some of it is optimistic; most of it is pessimistic. Authorities present at the conference, feeling that everyone has opinions about family life, but few have facts, spoke entirely from first-hand experience. This alone would make Family Life Today a worthwhile book. Add to this the fact that all those contributing to it have faith in the future of the family and offer plans for its enrichment and you have a book outstanding and stimulating.
THE first section of the book deals with the background of the family. The monogamous family has been established through the needs of man and meets his needs better than any other system. In this family it is falsely stated that the male must in the nature of things be more powerful and efficient than the female. Our biological inheritance we understand. We have, however, neglected our social heritage—our ways of thinking and acting—our very personality—which is mainly passed on by the family. The family determines whether the child is to be timid, honest, conservative, or otherwise. "As the twig is bent, so grows the tree." The change in the size of the family may affect the personality of the members of the family both for good and evil. It may increase the percentage of exceptionally capable children mentally, but it may also result in an increase of nervousness and mental disorders. To these conditions the family must adjust itself through new inventions and utilize new knowledge concerning personality, habits and practice of affection, training of children, etc.
In the second part of the book, devoted to "Founding New Families," Dorothy Canfield Fisher strikes the keynote of the book in her chapter entitled "A Challenge." She feels that the task ahead of members of the family is noble and that we should face the future of the family with courage and cheer and hopefulness. We are but pioneers with the problems of pioneers. Our goal—a family shaped to meet present day needs—lies ahead. We cannot go back to the old quietly ordered world of unquestioned traditions and standards.
Ernest R. Groves urges education and preparation for parenthood. This education must not become a fad, but must be linked with existing educational institutions, such as the schools, the church, the community, and the Y. M. C. A. and the Y. W. C. A.
Mary E. Richmond prophesies that just as the health movement has swept the country during the last twenty years, so a social movement, with marriage its subject, will awaken and take a like course. The clergy, the lawmakers, the scientists, the social workers, the women's organizations will all play their part in this reform over which she, like Mrs. Fisher, is so optimistic.
In the third part of the book, which deals with "Work, Wages, and Leisure," industrialism and its effect on the family is discussed by noted authorities. The family is no longer the chief unit of production. Men and women today make their living as individuals and not as members of a family group as they used to do. But this does not mean that the permanence of the family is a thing of the past. Factors such as love, care of children in early years, and man's inherent hunger for permanence, are operating to hold the family together.
"LEISURE, through all the ages, has been looked forward to as the great boon." Today leisure increases. Work recedes, offering new possibilities as it goes. This new-found leisure if properly used is a real boon. Karl De Schmeinitz in discussing this subject takes an optimistic attitude. He feels that actually people are not away from their homes as much as they were in the days before leisure. To him the motion picture is not such an evil as it is pictured. There are attractions to keep us at home that did not exist when we were born, such as books and radio. The recent wave of home ownership is doing much to keep members of the family at home. "It is what each member contributes to the family that makes the life of the home." The family used to huddle together on the front steps, but how stultifying was its leisure. Today parents and children go forth from the home adventuring. They come home later, bringing variety and interest "that makes of comradeship a recreation." People, not materials, make the home.
THERE are those who feel that we are too passive in our use of leisure. We listen to the radio, we see the motion picture, the baseball game, the football game, the tennis match. This, however, develops our faculties of appreciation and fires us to try our hand at things. Appreciation of another's skill very often arouses the desire for emulation. Such organizations as the Boy Scouts and the Girl Scouts have made a great contribution to leisure by fostering the study of the wild life of the woods and fields.
The art of fellowship has not been aided by industrialism. Friends do not visit us as much as they did. No longer do we choose our friends from among our neighbors. There is thus a loss in friendliness that goes with informality. We need a revival of the art of hospitality. Entertainment should, as much as possible, be a family affair. The children should be included. Conversation at table should always be one of the delights of leisure. Let there be many jokes for "jokes and laughter bring the generations together." Perfect comradeship can 442 never be achieved between the generations but it can be kept as close as possible through a wise, right use of leisure. "Contrast the separation from the family which the saloon fostered with the companionship that is had in attendance at the motion picture show or in the automobile." ee ON is primarily a problem for the family. Today we are in vital need of ways of increasing the moral and _ splritual forces that build good, solid, trustworthy individuals. ""Wherever there has been profound religious life in any nation, race, or people, there has always been behind it a deep and pervasive piety and religious culture in the home." Rufus M. 'Jones, in writing of "Religion and Family Life," feels that man is, essentially, spiritually minded with a native hunger for God. During the year of 1928 eight million copies of the New Testament were sold. 'Habits of reverence and of wonder, once formed, are likely to last through life. "A home penetrated with spiritual culture and spiritual ideals is the highest product of civilization and it in turn ministers all RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE the time toward the creation of a still higher civilization." The home determines the destiny of its boys and girls. '"The home shapes the social life; it makes the church possible; it is the true basis of the state and nation. The woman who is successful in making a true home and nursery of spiritual culture, where peace and love dwell, and in which the children whom God gives her feel the sacredness and holy meaning of life, has won the best crown there is in this life and she has served the world in a very high degree." Thus runs this excellent book, Family Life Today. Based on firsthand scientific thought, it is optimistic as to the future of the family. It is harder than most people think to break down the family unit. In the future we are going to speak of developing the family rather than of preserving it. Integration, continuity of membership, affection, social case work has demonstrated as essential to family life. "The time has come to stop denouncing the family, or scolding it for its shortcomings; it is worthy of better and more careful study." The World is Beautiful to Me By Anna Rosdahl Donned in the silvery robes of the morn, i Tinted in colorings of twilight born, Clothed in the golden splendor of noon, Bathed in the shimmering light of the moon, The world is beautiful to me. Hushed in the silence of dusk 'ere the dark, Vibrant at dawn with the song of the lark, Enchanted in calm of stars' mystic light, Sabled in cloak of still purple night, The world is beautiful to me. Wrapped in spring fragrance and April dews, Draped in rainhow-spun autumnal hues, Kindled to blossom by warm summer light, Mantled in winter's rich ermined white, The world is beautiful to me. Daughter's Beaus By Elsie WAS standing on the step-lad- | der taking the living room curtains down to shake, when the telephone rang. It was Saturday forenoon. My head was swathed in a towel and my face and house dress were streaked with dust— and my back ached. I was giving the living room a little better than the regular Saturday's cleaning, but had just been thinking that if I didn't bother much for lunch I could get through before noon. There were canned beans and fish and the children could scramble some eggs and open a jar of peaches. I got down from the step-ladder and answered the phone. It was Marian, speaking scarcely above a whisper, her voice tremulous and thrilled. Marian was seventeen, making good at her first job in a drug store, and incidentally discovering that' she was becoming popular with her boy friends. "O, Mother, Bob Watson from Ogden is in here—You know— our class president last year—the fellow who took me to the prom. He's on his way to Los Angeles for his vacation and—just stopped off here for a couple of hours—he says—to see me. Mother, may I bring him home to lunch?" My lips began to draw themselves into a straight line. It did seem that children ought to have a little consideration. Saturday. Almost eleven o'clock. My back ached, and it would mean— M ARIAN must have sensed my hesitancy in that pause. "I know it's Saturday, and that you are busy. But you wouldn't C. Carroll need to go to any extra bother. I could bring some ice-cream home from here, and—you could leave the dishes——Or would you rather I'd stay down town and go somewhere to lunch with him? He'll only be here a couple of hours." "Stay down town." Those were the words that cleared my senses. Eating down town at first with Bob, then perhaps with strangers. That was doubtless how little Elva Daniels, who ran away with a traveling salesman last winter, had started. "Why, bring him home, of course, dear," I heard myself saying with a little catch of eagerness in my voice. ""Would you rather have combination or tuna-fish salad?" "Combination—with your good mayonnaise dressing. And thanks, Mother, a lot. We'll be there a little after twelve. Shall I bring some ice-cream?" "No.—I'll make a shortcake or something. "Oh thanks, Mother, you're so good to me." I TURNED from the 'phone with cheeks burning at the thought of how nearly I had come to not being good to her.. What did a little extra work, a little extra bother mean, compared to doing the right thing by my girl? How nice it was that she wanted to bring Bob home to lunch. I must make her keep on wanting to bring her friends home. I had drawn most of the living room furniture out into the dining room preparatory to brushing down the walls. It would have to be put back and the unshaken curtains re- 444. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE hung. It would not be fair to Marian to let her bring Bob to such a disordered room. I would have to put in a special delivery call for groceries—an 'extra twenty-five cents—and I needed to count every penny; but Marian must not be ashamed of the lunch to which she had invited this wonderful Bob. I would even put on the best silver. Pe pretense? No. I see it quite differently. Marian must be helped to continue to want to bring her friends home to lunch. I must put on a clean, dainty dress, and fuss a little with my hair and brush my cheeks with a little of Marian's rouge, and powder my nose. Foolish nonsense? Not at all. Marian must not be ashamed of me when she presented her Bob. Neither must he look at me in a soiled dress and with frowsy hair, a reflection of Saturday cleaning, and register a mental picture of what Marian would look - like seventeen years hence. Extra work, and expense? Yes. And the unpleasantness of having to get back into the towel and soiled dress and going back to the cleaning again the afternoon when I should have liked to be resting and reading —hbut worth it all. HEN I hear mothers lamenting the fact that their girls are never willing to stay at home evenings, but are always wanting to car-ride, or go to the movies, or public dance halls; or that they are worried about their daughters' friends because they don't know the first thing about them, I wonder if they always make it a point to be presentable when daughter's friends call, and on hand to be presented—even to make the introduction themselves, if daughter forgets. It isn't hard to smile pleasantly and say, "This is Jack, I suppose. I'm Mary's mother. Please sit down, I think she is almost ready." Perhaps it's a little harder than slipping into the back bedroom because your hair "is a sight" and your apron soiled, when you hear the door bell ring and know it is Jack or Ned coming. But it's worth it. I wonder if those worrying mothers ever "happen" to have a nice dish of home-made candy, or popcorn on hand the evenings they know daughter is expecting Jack or Bob. Or if they spend money for the latest phonograph records and piano roll. (What if they are jazz and you hate jazz? If they can't hear those latest tunes in your home they'll go some place else to hear them and dance by them.) Expensive? Yes. But a mighty sane investment when you count the dividends in terms of peace of mind. DAUGHTER'S beaus! Yes, surely they can be a nuisance with their eternal desire to dance on the new rug; their continuous loud laughter over silly jokes; their never-tiring, grinding out jazz on the phonograph, piano, or banjo-- when you are tired and would like to sleep—or are worried for fear the neighbors are: being annoyed; their unbelievable capacity for sandwiches and punch and wafers. But _worth it for the joy of having them there with daughter, instead of having her off—somewhere—anywhere with them, for the satisfaction of learning to know them so you can casually drop a hint such as, "I would think Fred were ever so much nicer if he didn't use so much slang. Wouldn't you?" or, "TIsn't it too ba 1- Jack isn't sincere when he's so clever? Cleverness is a fine thing to DAUGHTER'S BEAU 445 have but there are other qualities so much more desirable. Don't you think so? Now there's Heury. He isn't clever, nor handsome, but he's the kind of boy who'll make a real man. Haven't you noticed how considerate he is of everyone?' Never moralizing nor preaching, of course—but letting fall those little comments that will help daughter, without her realizing it, in forming right judgments when it comes tine for her to choose her mate. ANOTHER invaluable reward a mother gets for making an effort to know her daughter's friends, is that it gives a basis for those little confidences which every mother longs to keep. If you know all about Bob and Fred and Jack because they are frequent, informal visitors in your home, it is much easier for your daughter to say, "Mother, Fred tried to kiss me tonight—and I-—,"' or "Mother, what do you think Bob meant when he said—." AND so, you mothers of daughters who are just stepping out of the realm of little girlhood into that world of romance and _ thrills-——for your own peace of mind, for the sake of your daughter's future— cultivate your daughter's beaus. The Western Stars By Henry F, Kirkham High o'er the prairie—far and wide, High o'er the mountain's massive bars, Near to the ocean's restless tide— Shine soft and clear the western stars. When fall the dewy shades of night, Like tapers held by hands divine, A spangled canopy of light, These western stars in glory shine. They smile a friendly greeting down, In deep ravine where torrents rage, In far-flung space or sleeping town, To all who ride the purple sage. For nowhere glow the stars so bright, Since this fair land no fog-bank mars; And nowhere is the keen delight This fair land shows beneath the stars. Slother By Lora Pratt What can I say for ''Mother''? A few blunt, paltry words; The music of my heart strings Is felt, but never heard. Oh, Mother dear, I love you! God keep you, dear, I pray— And grace your every footprint Tho I am far away. I may speak the joy of spring And struggles of the throng, But, Mother—you''re the essence, The beauty of my song. There is no word so charming, No eloquence can tell How beautifully you taught me, How deep you wrought, how well. You gave me of your heart beats And blended deep your soul. You made me see that purity Is life's one worthy goal. And when I left your side, dear. You came and followed me. You ask for me one blessing— A life of purity. You're like an angel, Mother; The white petal of a rose; And though I cannot thank you— God will—Because, He knows! The Pledge of Oberammergau By Olga Wunderly Snell THAT is it that insistently calls the visitor back to the lonely valley of the Ammer? Not the mountains for they are not more beautiful than others in that region, not the winding river whose banks are verdant yet devoid of the charms of an Isar, not the picturesque houses and their inhabitants whose pleasant '"Guess Gott" welcomes the stranger to partake of the country's hospitality. It is the atmosphere, the spirit of 1633 still lingering over the hallowed spot, living on perennially in the heart of every Oberammergauer and finding expression in his every-day walk and deed. Coming from Munich and -approaching the home of the Passion Play the eye is attracted upward to a large cross erected upon the highest peak of Mount Koffel. Of symbolic importance, it seems at once to protect, to guard, and to bless; for it is to the memory of Him whose life was sacrificed upon the cross, and in grateful remembrance of a prayer answered that the people of Oberammergau pledged to. Perform the Passion of Christ ery tenth year. HEN nearly fires: hundred years ago the plague ravaged | fhe country and threatened to annihilate the entire village, the lowly peasants, in their hour of despair, turned to Him who said: "And all things, whatsoever ye shall ask in prayer, believing, ye shall receive." The twelve oldest men of the town called the people to a special service. At the Church and there they all solemnly vowed that if the Lord - would preserve them and their. Families from further destruction, they would portray the suffering of. The Savior as an offering of thanksgiving as well as for the "edification of mankind in general." Their trusting faith stayed the hand of the destroyer and although many were stricken with the disease, none died. The following year, 1634, saw the fulfillment of their vow and the first performance of the "Great Atoning Sacrifice on Golgotha," as the play was then called. To this day they have kept the pledge of their fathers. BYERY member of the community looks forward to the season of the Great Play with tense anticipation and many are the preparations, both personal and communal. The play was written by one of them with the help of the scriptures; the music, too, is a home product; in fact, it has been composed twice as the first composition was destroyed by fire in 1817. For costuming and setting they looked to the masters of old for inspiration. God Himself created the background, for the stage is built in the open surrounded by the rustic beauty of the quiet valley. The participants ithemselves display a sincerity, a devotion and simple eloquence which go far to make the great religious drama a success as it unfolds from the time of Christ's triumphal entry into Jerusalem to the rolling away of the stone and the message of the angel: "He is risen." Thus with gratitude we turn to the mountaineers of Oberammergau who not only 'preserved for the world a piece of art almost unchanged from the Middle Ages but in. The sweet serenity of their mountain home have nurtured an ideal whose loftiness touches all who come within its sphere. Eliza R. Snow Memorial Poem Contest ANNOUNCEMENT, 1930 This memorial shall be known as the Eliza Roxey Snow Prize Memorial Poem, and shall be awarded by the Relief Society annually. Rules of the Contest 1. This contest is open to all Latter-day Saint women, but only one poem may be submitted by each contestant. Two prizes will be awarded, a first prize consisting of $20, and a second prize consisting of $10. 2. The poem should not exceed fifty lines, and should be typewritten, if possible; where this cannot be done, it should be legibly written, and should be without signature or other identifying marks. 3. Only one side of the paper should be used. 4, Each contestant guarantees the poem submitted to be her original work, that it has never been published, that it is not now in the hands of any editor, or other person, with a view of publication, and that it will not be published nor submitted for publication until the contest is decided. 5. Each poem must be accompanied with a stamped envelope, on which should be written the contestant's name and address. Nom de plumes should not be used. 6. No member of the General Board, nor persons connected with the office force of the Relief Society, shall be eligible to this contest. 7. The judges shall consist of one member of the General Board, one person selected from the English department of a reputable educational institution, and one from among the group of persons who are recognized as writers. 8. The poem must be submitted not later than October 15, 1930. The prize poems will be published each year in the January issue of -the Relief Society Magazine. Other poems of merit, not winning special awards, will receive honorable mention; the editors claiming the right to publish any poems submitted, the published poems to be paid for at the regular Magazine rates. All entries should be sent to Mrs. Mary C. Kimball, Editor, Relie/ Society Magazine, 20 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah, not later than October 15, and statement should accompany them that they are entered in the Eliza R. Snow Memorial Poem Contest. PRESCIENCE By the late Josephine Spencer The earth may shiver under shrouded suns, A red moon lift the sea; But day or night God's noiseless rivers run The mills of destiny. Notes from A Word of Introduction: CHARITY Never Faileth;" so C reads the motto of our Relief Society, and we might add that energy, vision, enthusiasm are not lacking in the work of many of our organizations. Interesting reports from stakes in all quarters come into the office—reports of things accomplished, and those in progress during the summer months. These reports indicate how very broad the scope of Relief Society work has become. North Davis Stake: FROM North Davis stake we hear the excellent tidings of their clinic work conducted through- 'out the stake. Summer clinics are held, wherever the ward presidents can arrange for them, in the Relief Society rooms. The Relief Society pays for everything except the doctor's fee. It is most fortunate for the people to have a physician devoted entirely to the care of little children, and whole-hearted in his support of the efforts in their behalf. The clinic is sponsored by the Relief Society, and is held one day in each month. The date and time for the clinic is announced in the ward meetings and in the local paper, and parents are urged to be in attendance. During the year past 595 examinations have been made and treatments prescribed; 1,029 children under 8 years of age are in this stake. A free dental clinic is held one day each week. During the past year there have been 675 fillings in baby teeth, 105 extractions, and 15 children are under treatment for straightening of the teeth. In addition to this a program of lectures and stereopticon views occasions. The Field pertaining to the child's health are arranged by Dr. Gleason, and will be given during the summer months to the fathers and mothers in the wards. This in order that parents may become better acquainted with the clinic work, and the fine things that are being accomplished by the doctor and the clinic workers. In this stake there was something of an innovation in reference to conventions. Instead of holding just one convention for all the stake, it was carried into each ward where the teachers were convened, and an inspirational program conducted. The subjects discussed were: '"What Relief Society Teaching Should Mean to the Visited!' What Relief Society Teaching Should Mean to the Relief Society Teacher." Beautiful music and words of encouragement from the Bishoprics and from the stake workers were features of the occasions. It was felt that in conducting these in the wards, a larger number of the teachers were in attendance than if the gathering had covered a wider field. The Relief Society Ward Conferences for the summer have also been scheduled. The following program has been arranged: The opening exercises under the direction of the Bishopric; music, by the Relief Society; his- "torical sketch of the year's work and greetings by the ward president; financial and statistical report and presenting of officers, by the secretary; the subject, '""What the Relief Society Organization Means to Me," discussed by a ward member; "The Responsibility of Membership," discussed by a stake board member; under this responsibility 450 would be listed: 1. Necessity for Funds; 2, The Annual Dues; 3. Loyalty to the Magazine; 4. Attendance at Meetings; "Why Relief Society Work," by the Bishop of the ward. A special program for the summer Relief Society meetings will be arranged in continuation of the literary work, The Society will plan to hold these meetings at the homes of those who are "shut in," or "home bound." During the month of July a review of the book 4 Lantern in Her Hand, will be given. For August The Man Nobody Knows. For September Ramona, a beautiful story by Helen Hunt Jackson. Altogether the work presented is most gratifying. ' Cache Stake: O commemorate the 62nd anniversary of the Cache Stake Relief Society, which was organized May 18, 1868, by Apostle Ezra T. 'Benson, the stake Relief Society board entertained all Relief Society 'officers, class leaders and visiting teachers. This happy event occurred in the Fourth Ward amusement hall on May 17, 1930, at 2 p.m. A very delightful program consisting of community singing, special musical numbers and a short play called Soul Mates were features of the entertainment. The little drama was presented by the winners of the Cache stake M. I. A. Contest. The Society felt specially honored in having with them two women, Sister Laura Mickelsen and Sister Mary Ann Tarbet, who were present at the first organization of the Relief Society in the stake. After the social hour and the program was presented, delicious refreshments were served. Those who were fortunate enough to be in attendance, pronounced it an occasion long to be remembered. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Juab Stake: THE organization of the first Relief Society in the Juab stake was commemorated in a most fitting and impressive celebration held in the Juab Stake Tabernacle on Tuesday, March 18, 1930, at 2 p.m.. The Juab stake board, the wards of Nephi and Levan cooperated in observance of the day. The presence of President Louise Y. Robison, of the General Board of Relief Society, added greatly to the success of the occasion. In addition to the regular program, an exhibition of the work accomplished on Work and Business Day was shown. There was also a collection of pioneer relics, including furniture, clothing, dishes, a spinning wheel, carding machine for wool, and rare old volumes of Church books. The program which followed was most inspirational. Of outstanding interest was the remarkable pageant depicting the presidents and the activities of the Relief Society since the beginning; this under the direction of Mrs. Jennie B. Beck. The pictures were shown in pantomime. Mrs. Leeta M. Squire acted as reader. Scene I. Organization of the Relief Society. Scene II. First President Emma H, Smith, represented by Mrs. J. Smith. Scene III. Second President, Eliza R. Snow, represented by Mrs. Elizabeth Boswell. Scene IV. Third President, Zina D. H. Young, represented by Mrs. Zelnora Ockey. Scene V. Fourth President, Bathsheba W. Smith, represented by Mrs. Jennie Hobbs. Scene VI. Fifth President, Emmeline B. Wells, represented by Mrs. Elizabeth Linton. Scene VII. Sixth President, Clarissa S. Wiliams, represented by Mrs. Janette Ord. NOTES FROM THE FIELD Women WHO PARTICIPATED IN THE JUAB STAKE PAGEANT Scene VIII. Activities of the Relief Society—Feeding the Hungry, Clothing the Needy, Visiting the Sick. Scene IX. All former presidents assembled, and President Louise Y. Robison, now the president of the general Relief Society organization. Another item of interest in this stake is that a course in hygiene and care of the sick has been conducted by a representative of the American Red Cross. This course extended over two months, and 105 women were enrolled; 102 of whom received certificates for a successful completion of the course. It is certainly a matter of congratulation to the stake when so much interest is shown by the women in the educational movements.
Liberty Stake: The Relief Society presidency and board members were hostesses at a luncheon given in honor of the presidents, counselors and secretaries of the ward Relief Societies of Liberty stake. The happy event occurred on May 8, 1930, in the Yale Ward amusement hall, and was in the spirit of a spring festival. The centerpiece was a replica of an old time log cabin meeting house. The beautiful hall was decorated with bridal wreath, tulips and spring flowers of every description. The tables were most exquisite. The potted plants formed the favors. There were 70 guests. Among the special guests were Sister Anna Musser, the first president of the Liberty stake Relief Society. She said grace before the delicious luncheon was served. Counselor Julia A. Child, of the General Presidency; Mrs. Julia A. F. Lund, General Secretary; Sister Lotta Paul Baxter, Sister Hazel H. Greenwood, of the General Board; Sister Myrtle Shurtliff, one of the former stake presidents, were in attendance. Mrs. Claire Stewart Boyer presided as toastmistress, and gave a most clever introduction in verse form to the toasts. In response each ward president gave a very fine statement characteristic of the things outstanding in her ward. After the luncheon was served, a program was given in the hall, composed of musical numbers, poems by Sister Greenwood and Sister Shurtliff. Sister Lotta Paul Baxter offered the closing prayer.
Guide Lessons For October
LESSON 1 Theology and Testimony (First Week in October)
Book of Mormon: ALMA'S Last Words
This lesson covers the material to be found in Alma, Chapters 37-44, inclusive.
Outline
I. Alma gives the "sacred things" to Helaman.
1. Admonition to his son Helaman.
2. The articles delivered to Helaman. A. The Brass Plates. B. The Small Plates of Nephi. C. The Large Plates of Nephi. D. The Twenty-four Plates of the Jaredites. E. The Interpreters of the Jaredites. F. The Liahona.
II. Alma instructs his son Shiblon. 1. Commendation of him. 2. Warnings. (See especially 38:14—compare with Luke 18:9-14.)
III. Alma instructs Corianton. 1. In respect to sin and the attitude toward sin. 2. In respect to the resurrection. 3. In respect to the justice of God in "punishment."
IV. Lamanites war against Nephites. 1. Purpose of each people. 2. Leaders of each army—how equipped. 3. The battle and surrender.
Notes
1. It may not be out of place here to repeat in another form what we said as we began our lessons last year. Let us remind ourselves of one point, at least, namely: that the Book of Mormon throws light on life today, because it deals with God's point of view concerning the conduct of the human spirit. Some literature is ephemeral, some permanent. That is to say, some writings have to do only with things of the moment; others, with the eternal struggle of the soul in its effort to reach the higher good. We heard a noted scholar of the New Testament not long ago say that he had tried to make a lecture of high worth out of the writings of one of the philosophers of the Middle Ages. He could not do so, however, because there was nothing in them that reflected light on anything today. With any of the Gospels or the letters of the apostles in the New Testament he found it otherwise. Well, the Book of Mormon is like the New Testament in that it throws light on the affairs of men today. Human nature has the habit of acting very much the same way in every age. People may live in tents one century, in log houses another, and in palaces in still another; or they may use the foot runner to deliver their messages one period, the steamship in another period, and the wireless in a third—it does not matter, for under the skin they are all the same. Now, the Book of Mormon is full of light on situations that arise in human life in the second quarter of the twentieth century. Some of Alma's teachings to his son serve to show what we mean. Corianton wants to know how it is that in the year seventy before Christ Alma can teach the message of the resurrection from the dead. Alma makes this answer: "Is not a soul at this time as precious unto God as a soul will be at the time of His coming? Is it not necessary that the plan of redemption should be made known unto this people as well as unto their children? Is it not as easy at this time for the Lord to send His angel to declare these glad tidings unto us as unto our children, or as after the time of His coming?" That is a tremendous thought and beautifully put. Few people, even in our own times, look upon the immense value of a human soul. That is chiefly because they allow trifles to come between the thought and the object. We too often think of a man's or a woman's faults instead of his or her virtues, of what a person is, not of what he may become. And in our own commercial age, the age of the machine, our measure of human value frequently is in terms of what he has, rather than of what he is. Well, a passage like that of the great Alma brings us back to the thought that in God's eyes a human soul is the most precious thing in the world. Try it in your own experience, and see whether it is illuminating on modern life or not. Does it throw any light on whether a married couple should have children or practice artificial birth control? Does it throw any light on the question of child labor? Does it tell us how to treat criminals, in or out of prison? Does it throw any light on whether or not we should use persuasion in our dealings with our own children and others? These are modern problems. To be sure, this thought is given also in the New Testament, but that does not do away with its force in the Book of Mormon. The point is, that the Nephite Record is a work that is enlightening today, notwithstanding it was written hundreds of years ago—which shows that it is a book of permanent, rather than temporary, worth.
2. It will be remembered by those who followed the lessons last year that we referred occasionally to matters in the Book of Mormon which pointed to its divine origin. One of these we find in the present lesson on the Prophet Alma. In the admonitions of Alma to his son there are some expressions which, when viewed as those of an elderly, experienced man, are in perfect keeping with that fact, but which, when viewed as the utterance of a young farmer twenty-four years old, are altogether out of character. The prophet Alma speaks of the records of his nation as having "enlarged the memory of this people." That is charged with too much experience for Joseph Smith at the time he translated the Book of Mormon. The phrase we have already quoted from Alma about the value of human souls is another to the same effect. Then take this sentence from his instructions to Corianton: "Go no more after the lusts of your eyes, but cross yourself in all these things. * * Oh, remember, and take it upon yourself to cross yourself in these things." That is not only a good thought, but it is by no means a commonplace expression of it—too little common to be the work of an uneducated young man. "All is as one day with God," is another of Alma's fine phrases, "and time only is measured unto men." Here is one more that vies with one in the Old Testament about the "way of the transgressor" being "hard": "Wickedness never was happiness." How did a youth without experience ever come to say a thing like that? Again: "For that which ye do send out shall return unto you again." That is in the same class of expressions which can come only out of a large experience of life—which Joseph Smith did not have at the time he published the Book of Mormon. Nor is that all. Look at the fine distinctions in doctrine that are to be found in this part of Alma. "The soul shall be restored to the body, and the body to the soul"—says Alma. Here is advanced the doctrine of a literal resurrection. Where did Joseph Smith get it? Certainly not out of the sects of his day, for they believed that only the spirit survived death, and that in unembodied form. Elsewhere the Nephite prophet declares there are various periods of resurrection. Where did the modern seer get that? Then notice the very subtle distinctions drawn in the forty-first chapter, verses twelve to fifteen. Such a refined distinction could be the result only of a mental discipline that Joseph Smith did not have at twenty-five years of age.
Questions
1. What "wise purpose" did Alma have in mind in speaking of the records he was delivering to his son Helaman?
2. Explain what he means in verse six of chapter thirty-seven, when he speaks of "small and simple things."
3. What "small and simple things" in your own life, in your community, or in your Church may be said to be pregnant with "great things"?
4. How many sons of Alma are spoken of here? Was the conduct of them all satisfactory to Alma? Can you account for Corianton's "affair"?
5. What difference does it make whether a nation keeps a written record or not?
LESSON 2
Work and Business
TEACHER'S Topic For October
(This topic is to be given at the special teachers' meeting the first week in October.)
THE RELIEF SOCIETY
A Great Cause
An opportunity of great magnitude to belong to an organization of 63,000 enrolled members of same faith.
Lesson Work: Practical adult education. Three courses comparable to college and university courses—Literary, Theology, Social Service. Every member an instructor in some way.
Visiting Teaching: Training Class. Delivers a message to each home. Represents the president. Must be prepared on topic. Number of teachers, 20,000. (a) Collections for charity; amount delivered intact. (b) Work and Business Day. Social benefits. Opportunity for service.
Social Welfare: Financial activity—collected during 1929: Charity Funds, $88,896 General Funds, $128,628 Annual Dues, $23,000 Other Receipts, $67,569
Practically every dollar handled by visiting teachers without a loss; collected and disbursed in locality in which it was gathered, except one-half amount for general dues.
Distribution of Charity—Method: Bishop, Ward President, Social Service Aid.
LESSON 3
Literature (Third Week in October)
THE SHORT STORY: AN INTRODUCTION TO THE LITERARY LESSONS FOR 1930-31
The lesson material for the short story work is to be found in a one-volume text book, Great Short Stories of the World by Clark and Lieber. It is a collection of complete short stories, chosen from the literature of all periods, and from thirty-odd countries. If necessary, class leaders will find in the book sufficient material for conducting the year's work, but from time to time there will be published in this section titles of other collections, biographical material, and books on the study of the short story. Some of the class leaders' favorite authors may not be included. Other teachers may wish that a different story had been selected. In these cases the instructors may decide to use material outside the text. It would also be well for the teachers to keep in mind the fact that in their classes will be representatives from many nations—Great Britain, France, Norway, Germany, Holland, etc. As the lesson work progresses each sister-student will have an opportunity to know more of her literary heritage. She will learn to know the early story tellers of her race—how these artists used the material found in their particular environment, and how the story telling needs of her native country have changed in succeeding centuries.
Just as a person cannot come to an appreciation of poetry without much intimate contact with the poems themselves, so she cannot have an understanding and feeling for the art of short stories without actually reading or hearing them. Many of the stories should be read in class by the most fluent readers the Society can produce. But this alone will not be sufficient. The instructors should urge that the members read as widely as possible in the text and in other collections, and whenever possible in the better type of contemporary magazines. In this way the class members will form new standards of judgment, and they will have an added delight and appreciation for the short story writers of our day.
At the present time the term "short story" has a fairly definite meaning. It is an individual in prose as a lyric or epic poem in poetry, and writers of modern short stories study certain technique and conform to certain standards. There have been numerous volumes written to explain the changes in the "short story" and to differentiate it from the story that is merely short. In Great Short Stories of the World the authors have used none of these theories as the one basis of material selection. Instead, the collection presents a wide variety of stories which the authors believe will appeal to the general reader. The essential purpose of all stories is to entertain, and it will be interesting to note the similarity and the changes in the material and technique of the stories, say, since the days of the ancient Chinese and today, when a person buys his short story magazines as methodically as he meets his monthly bills.
However, for the purpose of understanding the art of present-day short stories, which had their development in America and France during the nineteenth century, and which in 1930 have spread to every writing country, the qualities of the short story will be considered. One student has defined the short story as "a small piece of segment of the life of its characters viewed by itself, away from what has gone before and what comes after." This segment should have the following traits:
1. The narrative should be short enough to be read easily at one sitting.
2. It must be written so as to produce a single impression on the mind of the reader. In order to accomplish this the story must be pitched in one emotional key, and at every stage the action must add to the development of the basic idea. Humor and pathos may be mingled, but they must produce the same effect in the end. Everything that does not tend to produce the single impression must be excluded.
3. The story must be complete and final in itself.
4. No matter how impossible the plot may be, the story must have every indication of reality.
That, in brief, defines the short story. Still, there are many qualities a short story must have in order to be a good one. One of the major requirements is that in some way the writer must make the story so close to life that the reader is drawn into its enchantment. For the time being he must live as if he were a participant in the event. Naturally, too, there must be a combination of plot and character, for without action there can be no story. The plot, itself, is often simple, and the best story has an underlying idea—not necessarily a moral one—which can be expressed in a single sentence. As an illustration, Daudet's story of the "Last Lesson" has for its theme a phase of French patriotism. It is common for the short story to emphasize one of three or four points—character, action, setting, or theme. Some stories may stress two, and occasionally a rare story is found where all of the points seem to have an almost equal prominence. And the story is best that deals with few characters, two or three perhaps, and seldom over five. It may be told in the main by one of two ways, subjectively, where the author reveals the motives and mental currents of the character or characters as in Anderson's "Sophistication," or objectively, where he discloses what the characters think by quoting their speech and action. Verga follows this method of presentation in his story "Cavalleria Rusticana." Both methods are closely interrelated. No matter which one is dominant, it is best for the story to be told from the point of view of one person. Where several persons' points of view are presented, the reader becomes confused and loses his unity of impression and emotion. There must be distinction in phrase, epithet, sentence, structure, and diction. And there must be originality of thought, and if possible a touch of fantasy. All of these tend to make up that rather undefinable thing known as style. Today's writer also stresses that the style must be direct and vigorous, however subtle it may be in suggestion. Almost every decade sees some variation of these characteristics, yet in the essentials the short story remains the same.
For the convenience of the class leaders some suggestive problems suitable for the course are included in this Introduction.
1. Theme of story. What is it; does it have an original slant, and how is it handled?
2. Beginning of story. This is highly important and is the most difficult for the writer. How has he handled the problem? Is your interest caught from the first word? (In a short story the writer can spend only a few words or a sentence in the introduction. The action must start from almost the first word.) How has he managed to start his action and dialogue with reference to exposition and description? Is his arrangement suitable to his particular story?
3. Point of View. How told—impersonally or by one of the characters? What advantages or disadvantages comes to the author from his method of telling? Does the point of view shift at any time during the story?
4. Ending. Does the story end at the exact point or does it fade into an anti-climax? Is the ending effective, or should it come earlier? Does the ending satisfy? If there is a surprise ending, has adequate preparation been made for it?
5. Plot. Is the plot too obvious or is it hidden? What use is made of dramatic forecast and clues? If the time covered is long, have the high spots of the action been touched? Is the major climax heightened by a series of minor ones? Have someone state the plot as briefly as possible.
6. Style. Is the style suitable to the material and emotional tone of the story? Does the style add any charm of its own? Is the dialogue natural? If the story is told in the first person, does the teller express himself as such a person would in actual life? Does the author have a characteristic style which would make it possible for a reader to identify other of his stories? If this is true, explain why.
If time permits it would be well to close this introductory lesson by the class leader reading a short story. It should be a brief one, exemplifying the best qualities of a short story. One of Poe's, O'Henry's, Maupassant's, or Daudet's "The Last Lesson," found in the text will be suitable. Maupassant's "The Necklace" is also a suitable one, provided the members are not already very familiar with it.
Books about the short story which will be helpful to the class leaders: The Short Story in English, by H. S. Canby. The Story Teller's Art, by Charity Dye. The Philosophy of the Short Story, by Brander Matthews. Short Story Writing, by Walter B. Pitkin. Writing the Short Story, by Esenwein. The Short Story, Its Principles and Structure, by Albright. The Development of the American Short Story, by Pattee.
"The child must have three more births after its physical birth, each more painful than the first. It must be born into a world of self realization, into the life of the social group, and into a world of ideal values."—Dr. Edwin D. Starbuck.
LESSON 4
Social Service (Fourth Week in October)
PERSONALITY STUDY: UNDERSTANDING AND CONTROLLING HUMAN BEHAVIOR
Introduction to Social Service Lessons, 1930-31
In the class work in social service for this season there is to be a series of nine lessons based upon the adopted text and the material presented in this department of the Relief Society Magazine. The text is Overstreet's Influencing Human Behavior, which may be purchased at a very reasonable price. The committee in charge of this work in each ward or branch should make an effort to place individual copies of the text in the hands of as many members of their organization as possible, as this one thing alone will do much to insure the success of the course and help in the personal growth of each member.
Books containing valuable supplementary material, listed in the order of their availability and helpfulness in this course are the following:
Poulson, M. W.—Human Nature in Religious Education. West, P. V. And Skinner, C. E.—Psychology for Religious and Social Workers. Jastrow, J.—Keeping Mentally Fit. Bagby, E.—The Psychology of Personality.
What shall we say is the keynote of this course of lessons? In his preface the author of our text says: "Nowadays children are persons; and the task of parents is to be real persons themselves to such an extent that their children accept them as of convincing power in their lives." And then he asks by way of further focusing of attention on our task: "How, in short, can we actually change individuals—ourselves as well as others—into personalities more apt for our human enterprise?"
Dean H. M. Woodward has recently given what to the writer is even a more challenging statement of the same general problem. He says: "There is no greater job and no more profitable undertaking than the improvement of our own lives. We cannot dream ourselves into a great life. We must simply take ourselves in hand where we are and with patience and determination overcome those weaknesses which hold us back."
A tentative outline of the lessons of the course is as follows:
1. Understanding and Controlling Human Behavior (See text, pp. 1-27).
2. The Psychology of Persuasion (pp. 28-70).
3. The Psychology of Conversation, Writing and Public Speaking (pp. 71-109).
4. Making Ideas Stick (pp. 110-139).
5. How to Change Persons (pp. 143-168).
6. Habits and Growth (pp. 169-183, 209-216).
7. Thinking Straight (pp. 184-200).
8. The Creative Mind (pp. 217-255).
9. Effectiveness of Humor (pp. 256-277).
Throughout these lessons the common interest of our particular group in "understanding and improving social conditions" will be kept in mind. Those phases of psychology that are mainly abstract and of mere theoretical interest will be omitted. It will be recognized, however, that very many discerning mothers who have had little or no training in academic psychology are nevertheless rather good "practical psychologists" in the sense that they already have considerable valuable knowledge and experience in understanding and controlling the behavior, especially of children.
The reading suggested in connection with each lesson should be regarded not as a task but as an important means to aid in the accomplishment of our main purpose, i.e., the enhancement of our personalities so that we may "become skilled artists in the enterprise of life."
How shall we mark our personal copies of the text so as to record our personal reactions to the material and make them more serviceable as aids in our class discussions? The writer knows of no better device than the conservative and judicious marking of the books and magazines that we ourselves own by means of vertical lines in the outside margins. These lines may be single, double, or treble for different degrees of emphasis and should, perhaps, not be placed nearer than one-eighth of an inch to the edge of the printing. The common practice of extensive underlining tends to literally blot out important parts and does not make possible the indication of different degrees of importance. Parts on which you feel the need of help from others in understanding or on which you would express disagreement might well be indicated by small question marks in the margin. Some of these may later be neatly erased when they have served their purpose.
Read carefully the first twenty-seven pages of the text and if possible exchange ideas on some of the points there considered before the class discussion is held.
Supplementary References
Poulson—Human Nature (pp. 1-5, 14-19, 48-49, 55-56). (This book was used in the Teacher Training Course during 1927-28 and used copies are probably still to be found in most wards of the Church. An effort might well be made to locate some of these copies.)
Problems for Discussion
1. In the author's Foreword and Preface locate several slightly different statements of what constitutes the "major art of life" or the "central problem" of the proposed course. Read these and comment briefly on each.
2. Comment on the first paragraph on page four of our main text.
3. What does the phrase "salvaging of human life" suggest to you? To what extent do our own lives need salvaging?
4. The book begins with a consideration of some of the commonly neglected simple methods of influencing human behavior. Which of those mentioned in the first chapter do you think are most commonly effective? Most commonly neglected?
5. Give one or two original illustrations to bring home the truth of the statement that "we influence others very largely in ways far more real than we suspect." (See p. 15.)
6. The first half of page sixteen suggests the following quotation from Swift: "Be sure that the home is a peaceful place except for the joyous activity of children. Never call from one room to another. Never raise your voice above a tone that indicates composure." Is it a fact that in our homes we use the most "wretched techniques" for influencing human behavior? Suggest some needed improvements in this connection.
7. Compare opinions as to the most helpful suggestion obtained from this lesson to increase the efficiency of social workers or visiting teachers in the Relief Society.
God's Idea
By Samuel G. Clawson
When God made birds and flowers and trees To decorate this homely world, He looked and said, "I'm not quite pleased With all the beauty I've unfurled; There's something lacking in my plan, This pleases neither God nor man."
He thought and thought and wracked his brain For something which would add the art Of magic to terrestrial plane, Where beauty dwelt without a heart. And then he looked down from above And said, "The world's in need of love."
"I'll make a creature which will lend A loveliness to this great sphere Who will be more than just a friend, She'll teach them love throughout the year." And to the world he gave another Wondrous gift; we call it "Mother." Sego MILK Pudding and Custard Creams Rival At All Grocer's "A Surety of Purity"' Not one item of unwashable merchandise is displayed in the Open in our stores. The O. P. Skaggs System believes that unwashable merchandise that has been touched by a fly should not be eaten. With our unceasing efforts to guard the health of our customers, they feel safe when buying foods at our stores. They know we have taken every step possible to live up to our slogan. Make one of our stores your "Surety of Purity" in foods today. O. P SKAGGS "A Surety of Purity" By SPECIAL ARRANGEMENT With the Relief Society General Board and the Publishers of GREAT SHORT STORIES OF THE WORLD THE DESERET BOOK COMPANY P. O. Box 1793—44 East on South Temple St., Can furnish this book for your literary work At $2.88 Postpaid Cash with the Order Order Your Copies Now When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine Quality Education for Utah Students CITIZENS of the State of Utah are appreciative of the high standards of scholarship maintained by the state’s highest institution of learning. This fact is attested by the constantly increasing enrollment, so that there are now more students at The University of Utah than in all other institutions of higher learning in the state. Quality work has brought quantity students. High Scholastic Standards are rigidly enforced, so that University of Utah credits are fully accepted everywhere in the educational world. All fully qualified students will be welcomed and will receive the best the state has to offer in educational work. A broad curriculum presented by a faculty of excellent training, amid truly educational surroundings is the offering to those students who are interested in obtaining a University education of high quality. Registration Dates Freshmen students must send in an application blank, and have their credits sent in as soon as possible. Freshmen will register September 25, and attend special instructional classes September 26 and 27. Former students and transfer students from other universities must register September 29. Regular class work starts September 30. Make Your Pians Now to Attend Utah's Highest Institution of Learning SCHOOL OF ARTS AND SCIENCES SCHOOL OF EDUCATION SCHOOL OF MINES AND ENGINEERING SCHOOL OF MEDICINE SCHOOL OF LAW SCHOOL OF BUSINESS EXTENSION DIVISION For Catalog or Other Information, Address The President UNIVERSITY OF UTAH Salt Lake City, Utah When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine  Protect the Home Circle The easy _ systematic Mortgage Prepayment plan of the Equitable Life Assurance Society protected by Life Insurance is outstanding as the best means of freeing 'the American Home Owner from a mortgage obligation. Cost per $1000 per month including interest, principal and insurance is from $10 up to $15 per month. Ask Us About Further Details Ashton -Jenkins Go. '32 Main Street Wasatch 123 Salt Lake City Seven Times Champion of the World Sent to you on Free Trial 'Utah Power & Light Co. And Eureka Vacuum Cleaner Co. 177 E. 3rd So. St., Salt Lake City Complete Suits for Men and Women—Children's Clothing a Specialty Prompt and Careful Attention to Mail, Telephone and Telegraph Orders Temple and Burial Clothes Variety of Grades and Prices GENERAL BOARD RELIEF SOCIETY Open Daily—9 a.m. To 5 p.m. Telephone Wasatch 3286 29 Bishop's Building Salt Lake City, Utah When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine L. D. S. GARMENTS FOR ALL SEASONS Selected from our extensive line of L. D. S. Garments we suggest the following numbers for all seasons wear: No. 1 New stvle, ribbed 7 wgt. No. 6 Light weight summer garment cotton with rayon silk stripe. Sane new style 95 No. 2 Old style, ribbed lgt. Wet. Wet. 1.25 mercerized—silky finish........ 1,75 No. 3 Ribbed med. Wet. Cotton, bleached. Our all season No. 8 Light weight Spring and number 1.90 Summer garment. Men only 1.00 No. 4 Ribbed heavy wet. Un- * c F. IM ee ae er: No. 10 Medium wgt, silk for men and women, new style only 1.95 No 5 Part wool, ribbed unbleached. Our best selling wool number 3.00 In ordering, be sure to specify whether old or new style garments, three-quarter or ankle length legs, short or long sleeves are wanted. Also give bust measure, height and weight to insure perfect fit. Postage prepaid. Special discount to missionaries. FACTORY TO YOU—THE ORIGINAL Utah Woolen Mills ' One-Half Block South of Temple Gates WEDDING INVITATIONS and ANNOUNCEMENTS That Are Socially Correct and of the Very Latest Styles It will be a pleasure to assist you in making a selection of which you will be proud. The Deseret News Press 29 on Richards Street Salt Lake City, Utah When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine An excellent Ladies number..$1.25 cotton, our standard summer wgt 1.25 No 4 Ribbed heavy wgt. Unbleached cotton. Our double back number  2.25 Briant Stringham, Manager  Old. Style, or ais No. 7 Light wet. New or old style, No. 9 Light weight silk for ladies only, new style only.............. 1.50 28 Richards Street LDS. GARMENTS Good grade and well made. When ordering, state Size, New or Old Style, and if for man or lady. Postage prepaid. Sample on request. 147 Spring Needle, Flat Weave........$1.10 508 Ladies' New Style Extra Lt. 82 Combed Cotton, Lt. Wt............... 1.50 Wt. Combed Cot... 1.25 208 Lt. Wt. Rib. Double Card Cot... 1.35 302 Ladies' New Style, Rayon... 2.50 222 Rayon Striped Combed Cot....... 1.65 307 Men's New Style, Rayon...... 2.75 264 Rayon Silk, Fine Quality...... 258 Med. Wt. Rib. Double Card Cot. 1.85: 748 Unbleached Cot., Hvy. Wt...; 628 Mere. Lisle Light Wesco. 208 754 Blenched Cot) ten Wen one 908 Unblecahed Cot. Ex. Hvy......... 2.75 1118 Wool and Cotton Mixed......0....... 3.50 BARTON & GO. Established in Utah 45 Years 142 WEST SOUTH TEMPLE ST. SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH TEMPLE AND BURIAL CLOTHES COMPLETE SUITS FOR MEN AND WOMEN Variety of Grades and Prices. Prompt and Careful Attention To Mail—Telephone—Telegraph Orders © Open Daily, 9 a. M.—5 p. M. GENERAL BOARD RELIEF SOCIETY Phone Wasatch 3286, 29 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah L. D. 8S. GARMENTS Direct From Factory You are guaranteed unusual wear and satisfaction from Cutler Garments. They are made from the best long wearing, two combed yarns. No. 68 Old Style new style 3/4 or No. 61 Ribbed Med. Hvy. Unbleached long legs $.85 Double Back........ 1.75 No. 68 Ribbed It. Cot. Knee length....$.75 No. 56 Ribbed Hvy. Cotton bleached 2.15 No. 74 Ribbed It. Wt. Cotton.............. 1.10 No. 55 Ribbed Hvy. Cot., Unbleached No. 84 Rib. Mercerized Lisle. A 5 Double Back. 2.15 No. 76 Ribbed It. Wt. Lisle................ 1.3 No. 27 Ribbed Med. Wt. 50% No. 63 Lt. Med. Unbleached Double Wool 3.35 Back 1.35 No. 89 Ribbed Hvy. Wt. 50% No. 64 Ribbed Lt. Med. Cot................. 1.35 Wool 3.85 Non Run Rayon, Elbow and Knee WHITE TEMPLE PANTS Length 2.15 Long Sleeves and Legs, or old style.. 2.85 8 oz. Heavy Duck 1.95 SPECIAL MISSIONARY DISCOUNTS In ordering garments please state if for men or women and if old or new styles are wanted. Also give bust, height and weight. Sizes above 48—20% extra. Marking 15c. Postage Prepaid. Special— When you order three pair of garments at one time we allow you a 15% discount on third pair. GARMENTS - UNDERWEAR When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine No. 62 Ribbed Med. Hvy. Bleached... 1.75 No. 32 Silk and Wool.. Uuu.....4.50 Ask for one of our folders describing the different services we offer. CP Aa LAU N DF Hyland 190 Distinctive Work Office 319 S. Main St. 62 Children In Every Hundred have defective vision. Your child may be one of the 62. If so—then he is handicapped. Give him a fair start. Give him good vision. DR. DON C. JAMES OPTOMETRIST LADIES WAN GENTLEMEN Wrist Watches. JEWELER. Ot RS Wrist Watches Pearls 337 SOUTH MAIN STREET. Pocket Watches SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH. Diamond Engagement Rings Chains Rings Costume Jewelry Fountain Pens NOW IN NEW LOCATION 311 Main St. When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine No. 6 East Broadway Diamond Wedding Rings Salt Lake City Cigarette Lighters CONTENTS So Portrait of Joseph Smith........ Frontispiece The Book of Mormon. S. T. Brimhall-Foley 463 Portrait of Emma Hale Smith.......... 464 Fiftieth Birthday of the General Boards of Relief Society, Young Ladies' Mutual Improvement Association and Primary Association...... Amy Brown Lyman 465 Resignation of Editor Alice L. Reynolds 470 Editorial—Women on the Program of the National Education Association...... 471 Lady Aberdeen Receives Honorary Degree 472 A Last word 473 What it Means to be the Mother of Twins . Emma A. Brough 475 Training the Health Habits of the Child Elna Miller 480 A Double Barreled Paper-Doll Education Elsie Talmage Brandley 483 Before the Baby Comes Ruth Partridge Richan 492 Hospital Babies.......... Harold L. Snow 495 Adult Education...........4.. Jean Cox 499 "The Universe Around Us".. Lais V. Hales 501 Notes from the Field 504 Guide Lessons for November............ 509 Organ of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints Room 20 Bishop's Bldg. Salt Lake City, Utah $1.00 a Year—Single Copy, 10c Foreign, $1.25 a Year—15c Single Copy Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah Phone Wasatch 3123 ex VOL. XVII SEPTEMBER. 1930 = a JOSEPH SMITH Translator of the Book of Mormon, which was published one hundred years ago. Che Book of Mormon By S. T. Brimhall-Foley Flower from the hillside, Sweet September rose, Planted by prophets In soil that they chose. Silent for ages, At length to come forth And speak as by magic. Through tongues of the earth. Rose of Columbia No hand shall destroy, Plucked by an angel And read by a boy. Flower of a nation And light to a world, With fragrance unceasing Its bright leaves unfold. The plant of its fountain Shall ever increase, Be guarded by angels "Till earth rests in peace.  ——- EMMA HALE SMITH First President of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints THE Relief Society Magazine Vor. XVII SEPTEMBER, 1930 No. 9 Fiftieth Birthday Of the General Boards of Relief Society, Young Ladies' Mutual Improvement Association and Primary Association By Amy Brown Lyman, General Chairman of Committee PYINETEEN hundred thirty has been the most thrillingly interesting and remarkable year in the ' history of the Church, save the organization year, 1830. The spirit of the Centennial has permeated every gathering and has stirred the hearts and emotions of every Latter-day Saint, reaching a climax in the great Church conference held in April. The year chronicles another significant, historic event, which, though of minor importance, is of deep interest in Church circles and particularly in the women's groups —namely, the fiftieth birthday of the General Boards of Relief Society, Young Ladies' Mutual Improvement Association, and Primary Association, which occurred on June 19. The forming of the Central or General Boards of these three auxiliaries should not be confused with the organization of the auxiliaries themselves, for they had all been functioning for a number of years previous to 1880—the Relief Society since March 17, 1842; the Young Ladies Mutual Improvement Association since November 28, 1869; and the Primary Association since August 11, 1878. Nor should the idea prevail that the local groups of each auxiliary had been entirely without mutual interest before 1880, for Sister Eliza R. Snow, who was appointed by President Brigham Young in 1866 to supervise the organization of Relief Societies, Young Ladies' Mutual Improvement Associations, and Primary Associations in the stakes and wards of the Church, had, with her assistants, traveled from one end of the Territory to the other in the interest of the work in its different phases. From 1866 to 1880 she had stood at the head of the women's work in the Church, and was known as the "president of the L. D. S. Women's organizations." But there had been no Central or General Boards to specialize in and direct the work of each organization 466 until President Taylor takes action in the matter. Ie will be interesting for a moment to go back to the eventful occasion on June 19, 1880, when the organization of the Boards took place, and the foundation was laid for drawing the stakes more closely together in each field. It was a “Sisters' Conference," held in Salt Lake City, with President John Taylor and President Angus M. Cannon in attendance. It was the second day. The morning session was held in the Tabernacle, and the afternoon session in the Assembly Hall. The Tabernacle meeting was devoted largely to the work of the Relief Society and Primary, the middle seats of the great auditorium being filled with children. The organization of the Primary Board came first and was followed by that of the Relief Society. The afternoon session. Was held in the Assembly Hall, where the work of the Young Ladies' Mutual Improvement Association was featured, and it was here that the organization of this Board was effected. In taking this important step President Taylor was no doubt motivated by two major ideas: first, that a separation of the work of the three women's organizations into more definite and specialized fields would bring better results to the various phases of work and to the workers themselves; secondly, that through central boards the work in each field could be better standardized and unified. THE Central Boards, as inaugurated, consisted only of executive officers, but were later augmented by the addition of aids. Following is a complete list of the original officers: Relief Society—President, Eliza R. Snow: Counselors, Zina D. H. RELIEF. SOCIETY MAGAZINE Young and Elizabeth Ann Whitney; Secretary, Sarah M. Kimball; Treasurer, M. Isabella Horne; Young Ladies' Mutual Improvement Association—President, Elmina S. Taylor; Counselors, Margaret Y. Taylor and Martha Horne (Tingey); Secretary, Louie Wells (Cannon); Primary Association—President, Louie B. Felt; Counselors, Matilda M. Barrett and Clara C. M. Cannon; Secretary, Lillie T. Freeze; Treasurer, Minnie Felt (Cutler). A WORD of explanation regarding the nature of the "Sisters' Meetings" and "Sisters' Conferences" might not be out of place in this article, and might make it clearer as to why the forming of the Central Boards took place in these meetings. Sister M. Isabella Horne, president of the Salt Lake stake Relief Society, conceived the idea of holding, under the direction of the stake Relief Society, joint meetings of the women's organizations in the city, feeling that the Relief Society should mother the work of. The women and make opportunity for reports and discussion of their work and problems and for comparison of progress. - So these meetings were joint affairs of the Relief Society, Young Ladies' Mutual Improvement Association, and Primary Association, held regularly, mostly in the Fourteenth Ward, with Mrs. Horne presiding. They were in reality union meetings— forerunners of the present monthly union meetings held in all the auxiliaries of the Church. Thee interesting fiftieth birthday anniversary on June 19 of this year was celebrated jointly by the three General Boards in a most fitting manner, with the present members of the Boards as hostesses, and the General Authorities of the FIFTIETH BIRTHDAY Church, and their wives and all former Board members as guests of honor. The invitations to the affair were beautiful and will no doubt be kept and prized as souvenirs by those who received them. They were gold and white—gold embossed letters on soft white paper. While it was a time of rejoicing together, it was also a solemn occasion. A spirit of reverence seemed to pervade the atmosphere and to stir the emotions. Everyone present seemed to be conscious of the fact that it had been half a hundred years to the day since President John Taylor had seen fit to organize separate Central Boards to direct the work of the organized women of the Church, and thus to release latent possibilities in the organizations themselves and in the workers also. The celebration consisted of a reception and luncheon in the Board rooms of the Young Ladies' Mutual Improvement Association and Primary Association, and a program in the large auditorium. The guests were received by a special reception committee, headed by President Louise Y. Robison of the Relief Society, President Ruth May Fox of the Young Ladies' Mutual Improvement Association, and Superintendent May Anderson of the Primary Association. The presence of President Heber J. Grant and Counselors, and other General Authorities of the Church; and their wives, together with many of the former board members, lent dignity and importance, and historic interest to the occasion. Mrs. Martha Horne Tingey, former General President of the Young Ladies' Mutual Improvement Association, was the center of much interest, for not only had she. Been a former General President, but also one of the original officers of the Young Ladies' Mutual 467 Improvement Association, receiving appointment as second Counselor to President Elmina S. Taylor at the historic organization meeting fifty years before. PRESIDENT Louise Y. Robison presided at the meeting in the auditorium and extended a hearty welcome and greetings to those assembled. The program consisted of musical numbers, introductory remarks by the General Chairman; brief addresses by the three Presidents of the General Boards, sketching the growth and present work of the respective organizations; Reminiscences by Mrs. Martha Horne Tingey (a charter board member); remarks by Presidents Heber J. Grant and Anthony W. Ivins; and the presentation of stereoptican pictures of the past and present executive officers of the General Boards. The musical numbers were hymns which had been sung at the organization meetings and were as follows: "Sweet is Thy Work, My God, My King;" "Come, O, Thou King of Kings;" "The Spirit of God Like a Fire is Burning;" "O, Awake, My Slumbering Minstrels;" and "O. My Father, Thou That Dwellest." The First three were rendered by the congregation; the fourth, "O, Awake, My Slumbering Minstrels," was given as a trio by members of the Primary Board, and the last, "O My Father," was given as a solo by Mrs. Ida Peterson Beal of the! Relief Society Board. The invocation was offered by Mrs. (Elizabeth S. Wilcox, a former member of the Relief Society Board, and the benediction was given by Mrs. Maria Young Dougal, former member of the General 50th Birthday of Gen. Bd... Presidency of the Young Ladies' Mutual Improvement Association. 468 COUNSELOR Amy Brown Lyman of the Relief Society, general chairman of the committee, gave a short talk stating that the program to follow would be of an historical nature. She gave a brief account of the organization of the Boards and of the founding of each of the separate groups. President Louise Y. Robison gave a report of the Relief Society from the beginning, showing a steady growth in membership, interest and activities. She stated that the organization had carried out as nearly as possible the spirit of the original organization under the direction of the prophet Joseph Smith, as an aid to the Priesthood in caring for the sick and needy. She stated that the work went forward more rapidly after the organization of the first Board in 1880. One achievement she felt greatly to the credit of the Relief Society was the work it had accomplished in the field of health. The educational features for members were also commented upon, as well as the opportunities for spiritual development. Miss May Anderson, General Superintendent of the Primary Association, reported the organization and growth of the Primary since 1880. She mentioned as an outstanding feature of Primary work the Convalescent Home for boys and girls. She pleaded for support to this very worthy institution to aid unfortunate children. The hospital is supported by birthday pennies of Primary children of the Church and is an outstanding institution of the country, she said. President Ruth May Fox of the Young Ladies' Mutual Improvement Association spoke briefly concerning the organization and growth. Of the Association since the appointment in 1880 of Sister Elmina S. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Taylor as the first General President. She read extracts from the Woman's Exponent, giving an account of the organization meeting held at the Assembly Hall. She stated since that time the Young Ladies' Mutual Improvement Association had expanded from one group meeting to discuss religious subjects, to include four groups and that the Association now has also been given the assignment of conducting the recreation and leisure time of the Church for all members over Primary age. She reported Mutual work being carried on in practically every mission in the world, as well as in the United States, and that it was doing much to aid missionaries in interesting young people in the gospel. Mrs. Martha H. Tingey was the next speaker, who, together with Mrs. Lillie T. Freeze are now the only living members who were present at the original organization meeting in 1880. Sister Tingey, then Miss Martha Horne, was made second counselor to President Elmina S. Taylor of the Young Ladies' Mutual Improvement Association. Sister Tingey gave reminiscences of the first organization and the early growth of Mutual work and the difficulties under which the officers worked in order to get Associations started. She marveled, she said, in looking back, to find the development that had taken place. She expressed gratitude at being permitted to live to this day the fiftieth anniversary of the organization of General Boards of these three women's auxiliaries of the Church. PRESIDENT Heber J. Grant was the next speaker. He expressed his pleasure at being in attendance at this gathering. He commented on the splendid work being FIFTIETH carried on by the three organizations and offered words of encouragement. He expressed confidence in the officers placed in charge of these auxiliaries and pronounced a blessing on those assembled. President Anthony W. Ivins commented on the faithfulness of the women of the Church from the very beginning of its organization, in carrying on whatever assignments were given them, and paid a tribute to their energy and interest and loyalty. He also expressed appreciation BIRTHDAY 469 for the growth of the three associations. Pictures were thrown on a screen, showing officers of the three organizations from the first ones installed up to the present time. Those for the Relief Society were presented by Mrs. Annie Wells Cannon, member of the Relief Society Board; those for the Young Ladies' Mutual Improvement 'Association by Mrs. May Booth Talmage of the Young Ladies' Board; and those for the Primary Association by Counselor Edna H. Thomas of the Primary Board. The Clock Shop By Eugene L. Roberts Tick-tock, tick-tock, a host of clocks With none in tune, and none in time; Tick-tock, tick-tock, a mother clock ~ Would time their ticks and make them rhyme; But no such thing can long be done Since each lone clock must have its fun. Tick-tock, tick-tock, good mother clock, Be well content to watch your flock; For in good time they'll see the need Of timing ticks to mother's lead. Editor's Note—This poem was inspired by a clock-shop which made Mr. Roberts think of his wife and their eight children. The first woman to win the gruelling 750-mile King's Cup air race is Winifred Brown, 26 years old, on July 5. There were in the contest many famous fliers, both men and women. Among these women was one whose husband had competed. He explained rather apologetically to his wife the reason for his plane failing, to which she answered, "Never mind; for the first time a woman has won.” Resignation of Editor Alice L. Reynolds Announced HE Presidency and General Board of Relief Society announce, with deep regret, the resignation of Miss Alice Louise Reynolds as Editor of the Relief Society Magazine. Since February 7, 1923, she has held and brought honor and distinction to this position. Miss Reynolds, who is professor of English Literature at the Brigham Young University, feels that it is best to confine her labors to the University, and the General Board has, with reluctance, acquiesced in her decision. The Relief Society Magazine, under Miss Reynolds' supervision and guidance, has not only maintained its high standard, but has increased in interest, grown in popularity, and extended its influence. MISS REYNOLDS' contacts with universities and university life both in the United States and Europe, coupled with her extensive travel experience, have given a breadth of interest to her writing which could come in no other way, attracting the attention of a class of readers who have been interested in both the national and international tone of the Magazine. Then, too, she has always been interested in the achievements of women—this, added to her contacts with leaders of women's organizations, has been another source of special interest. Miss Reynolds was reared in a home with the companionship of parents deeply interested in religion—her father a writer of Latter-day Saint books—and she has been a teacher of theology in our Church schools the major portion of her life, all of which has helped her in a special way to edit a Church magazine. Miss Reynolds has the affection and respect of the General Board, and their interest and good wishes in her future welfare. Louise VY. Robison, Amy Brown Lyman, Julia A, Child, General Presidency. THE RELIEF SOCIETY OF THE CHURCH OF JESUS CHRIST OF LATTER-DAY SAINTS Motto—Charity Never Faileth THE GENERAL BOARD MRS. LOUISE YATES ROBISON': - MRS. AMY BROWN LYMAN - - - MRS. JULIA ALLEMAN CHILD - - MRS. JULIA A. F. LUND - - Mrs. Emma A, Empey Miss Sarah M. McLelland Mrs. Annie Wells Cannon Mrs. Jennie B. Knight Mrs. Lalene H. Hart Mrs. Lotta Paul Baxter Mrs. Cora L. Bennion Mrs. Mrs. Amy Whipple Evans Mrs. Ethel Reynolds Smith Mrs. Rosannah C, Irvine Miss Alice Louise Reynolds Mrs. Nettie D. Bradford President First Counselor - Second Counselor General Secretary and Treasurer Elise B. Alder Mrs. Inez K. Allen Mrs. Ida P. Beal Mrs. Kate M. Barker Mrs.. Marcia K. Howells Mrs. Hazel H. Greenwood Mrs. Emeline Y. Nebeker Mrs. Lizzie Thomas Edward, Music Director RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Editor - - - = 5 =: - Manager - - - 5 A C Z Assistant Manager - -. C Room 20, Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah Alice Louise REYNOLDS Louise Y. Robison Amy Brown Lyman Magazine entered as second-class matter at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah VOL. XVII SEPTEMBER, 1930 No. 9 EDITORIAL Women on the Program of the National Education Association | HE National Education Association has recently completed its annual meeting, held this year at Columbus, Ohio. Three women of unusual interest appeared on the program, two of whom are nationally well known—the first, Mrs. Ruth Bryan Owen, a member of Congress; the second, Judge Florence E. Allen, a member of the Supreme Court of the State of Ohio; the third, Miss Florence M. Hale, who is a rural school supervisor. The air has been resounding with praise of their achievement ever since the meeting. There are persons who have attended practically every meeting of the National Education Association who state that for "brilliancy, sanjty, and personality," these three women have gone beyond the efforts of women at any previous meeting. Dr. Winship, in his magazine, states that he has "asked several people to name three men at the Columbus meeting who rivaled those women, and no one has been willing to line up three men who made as great a platform contribution to the importance of the Columbus meeting as these women made." In analyzing the situation, Dr. Winship continues: "The Congresswoman owes much to inheritance and public opportunity, the judge owes much to legal training and public responsibility, and the rural school supervisor has achieved high platform art through persistent practice in saying wise things in a wise way cleverly."
472 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
Lady Aberdeen Receives Honorary Degree
LADY ABERDEEN, so long president of the International Council of Women, has recently had conferred upon her the honorary degree of L. L. D. From Aberdeen University. She is the second woman to receive an honorary degree from that institution, and this is as it should be. The first woman to receive such a degree was Queen Mary, in 1922, just eight years ago; or, to put it in another form, just eleven years after her coronation at Westminster Abbey. We could scarcely expect Lady Aberdeen to precede her sovereign in such an honor, but it is highly fitting that she should be the second woman in the realm to be so signally recognized. The Relief Society, an affiliated member of the National Council of Women of the United States, through the columns of the Magazine, extends hearty congratulations to Lady Aberdeen on an occasion so fraught with honor and distinction to her.
After Forty Years
HULL HOUSE is forty years of age, and the great woman who conceived the idea and put it over is still living. The Literary Digest says that Hull House is probably the most famous social settlement in the world, as famous perhaps as Jane Addams who gave it birth. At the celebration held recently, on the fortieth anniversary, telegrams were received from many persons of high worth among social workers, recognizing the importance of a piece of work such as Hull House represents. Of very recent date is an article appearing in the Literary Digest that is bold enough in tone to state that while business concerns are not supposed to support philanthropy, yet business recognizes that if people are physically fit and full of zest for life, they both earn and spend much more money than under other conditions. Consequently, it is part of good business to see that people are kept well, that they are provided with the food and clothing they need, for it all accelerates business. This sounds like new philosophy, but it is undoubtedly true. In the days when men spent from daylight to dark in the factories, they had neither time nor ambition to think of spending money for leisure, and sometimes hardly for the bare necessities. It looks as though we are learning by degrees that frequently the most desirable way to do things is also the best business practice. All hail to Jane Addams, who had the foresight, coupled with the courage, to go on with her laudable enterprise in settlement work in the heart of Chicago's slums.
Hyrum Bull and his Associates
Just when we were getting ready to express the last word of appreciation for Mr. Bull's interest and painstaking effort on behalf of the Relief Society Magazine, the news comes that he has passed be-
EDITORIAL 473
yond the sound of earthly words. The preparation of a magazine, whether in the editor's department or the printing department, is a matter of attention to innumerable details. Nothing just happens. Everything done or left undone is apparent. Hyrum Bull, Edwin F. Parry, and C. William Birkinshaw of the Deseret News have carried large responsibility in the publication of our Church magazines, of which the Relief Society is one. For the mechanical makeup of the Magazine and its never failing to appear, the publication department is responsible. We sometimes wonder if it ever occurs to the reader that no matter what happens to machinery, or who falls ill or possibly passes away in the editor's department or the publication department, the Magazine always comes out. The worst inconvenience that is suffered is a belated magazine. Daily it is prepared amid the clash and bang of many machines and the untiring attention to small matters that brings about large effects. For the painstaking care of all who have assisted in this work, we express appreciation in this our final issue. Hyrum Bull has worked with a smile on his face though often in distress, for we learn since his death that he had not been in good health for sometime. So carefully did he cover all traces of pain that we did not suspect it. We shall carry through life the memory of his good cheer and devotion.
A Last Word
AND now there remains only the last word to be said. It is a joyous thing when the last word is a word of appreciation to all who have assisted in the work. To the contributors in the field, to Magazine subscribers everywhere, we express our gratitude. To the first class we are largely indebted for whatever excellence in quality the Magazine may have possessed during our term as editor; to the second class, for that support and appreciation without which all effort must either languish or eventually die. The support of subscribers has been most gratifying during the more than seven years and a half that we have had charge of the work. To the executive committee, at whose head President Clarissa S. Williams stood during the major part of the time we have served, as also to the present executive committee with President Louise Y. Robison at the head, we wish to acknowledge kindly helpfulness. To the members of the Board, all of whom have been contributors at one time or another, we speak the word of gratitude. We also wish to acknowledge help extended by the managers of the Magazine. To Mrs. Jeannette A. Hyde, who has held this position until April 1925, and with whom we frequently conferred, we express appreciation. To Counselor Amy Brown Lyman, who has been assistant manager during the entire period, and whose concern during President Clarissa S. Williams' administration was chiefly with the literary part of the Magazine, we are indebted for many stimulating suggestions. She had had practical experience in every phase of the work, having supervised, entirely, a number of issues. For that reason her assistance was invaluable. To President Louise Y. Robison, present
474
manager, with whom we had many conferences in relation to the preparation of various issues, we are grateful for time devoted and many suggestions. To Mrs. Amy W. Evans, who acted in our stead during the year we were in Europe, we are deeply indebted; to the corps of stenographers who have worked untiringly and with great faithfulness to make possible the result, we acknowledge with gratitude their devotion and loyalty.
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
Lastly, we wish to acknowledge the blessings of our Heavenly Father. During our term as editor we have been out of the office only one day on account of ill health. We trust the Magazine, under our direction, has been the medium of heralding the gospel of a brighter day in many and various ways, and that at all times it has testified to the divinity of Christ and his mission, as also the divinity of the great Latter-day work, with the Prophet Joseph Smith at its head.
Truelson Classic Art Studio.
SLUMBERLAND
What it Means to be the Mother of Twins
By Emma A. Brough
'When the twins were born My Pa and Ma looked at them And said, 'Oh pshaw!' The doctor said 'They're boys, I think.' And Pa went out and got a drink. Ma said they looked just like Pa. Pa said they looked just like Ma."
For some time after the arrival of the twin boys, this was the little song hummed about the house by the two daughters of the family. Ever since Ellis Parker Butler in the American Magazine, February, 1926, wrote "How it Feels to be the Father of Twins," I have been looking for some woman to write a companion article on "What it Means to be the Mother of Twins." I am sorry to say that so far I have failed to discover such an article. I am sure, however, that almost every mother of twins would very much like to express herself on the subject; the big reason, without a doubt, why she has not done so, is that she hasn't had time. Mothers of twins will readily understand just what this means.
Now that I have gotten over the rush stage, so to speak (my twin boys, being at present nearly twelve years old, don't need quite so much detailed attention)—although I must say that they are still very much to the front—I am venturing to set down a few thoughts.
We are doing only our patriotic duty in helping to replenish the man-power of the nation after the war. The boys were born December 15, 1918, missing Armistice Day by just a month and four days.
We named them Clarence and Lawrence after two splendid young men. One, a Lieutenant Lawrence Evans who was killed in action in France in September, 1918; the other, Clarence Scribner, a fine young man of eighteen years of age, expecting to join the army in the fall of 1918. In June of that year he was drowned near his home in Colorado. You see, as far as those two who were killed were concerned, by the arrival of our twin boys the population of the country was the same the last month of 1918 as it was the first month. The photographs of these two young men (the one in a first lieutenant's full-dress uniform, the other in a cowboy's full-dress uniform with his horse) are used by the family as disciplinary measures whenever the twins are inclined to be naughty—which is quite often; the pictures are beginning to show wear. We all take turns in eloquently setting forth the virtues of these young men, telling of what wonderful things they would undoubtedly have accomplished had they lived; and then we point out very strongly how it is up to them (the twins) to see to it that they too get all this done before they in turn pass on. It has a most wonderful effect on the whole household for a time; then things break loose again and it has all to be repeated. I am only hoping that these two photographs hold out until the boys are grown.
TIME in our home is counted from, before, and after the twins were born.
476
Now, just how does it seem to be the Mother of twins? Well, you see when the doctor told the nurse to get another blanket ready, I couldn't very well go out and "get a drink," as Pa did. I had to stay on the job, so to speak; so I merely gulped once or twice, then went off into sweet oblivion, hoping it would be for a nice little rest before I must wake up to my double duty. As time went on, I must say I agreed with Mark Twain when he said in his "Toast to Babies:" "Sufficient unto the day is One Baby. As long as you are in your right mind don't ever pray for twins. Twins amount to a permanent riot (especially if they happen to be boys). And there ain't any real difference between triplets and an insurrection." We haven't had the insurrection yet, but must say that for about twelve years we have had the permanent riot. We have grown used to it. In fact, if the boys happen to be away for the day or when they are asleep, it actually seems spooky, it is so quiet around here. Lest it should be an insurrection next time, we are staying with the permanent riot. As to praying for twins, Mark Twain was right; but if they happen along without any special prayers, make them welcome. It isn't their fault—poor little tads! You might get to be real fond of them after awhile!
BEFORE our twins had reached the age of plain speaking, they overheard some of us older ones speaking of the great amount of work and worry they had been. One of them edged up close, and, putting his arms around me, said, "Well, Mama, now you've dot us, you've dot to teep us."
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
At that moment I forgot entirely about how much work they had caused me and sensed only the joy of their possession. When one pair of arms encircle your neck from one side, and another pair from the other side, and between the two you are hugged nearly to pieces, both of your cheeks being kissed at once, you are apt to forget every inconvenience and worry, to ignore every aggravating thing, and simply live in the ecstasy of the moment. The parents of twins get twice as much love as do the parents of only one child—but they need it. Twins make you realize you are alive all right; they keep you hitting, all the time, on all four, six, or eight cylinders, whichever class or brand you belong to. That doesn't mean just in their baby days either, but all along until they are grown.
IN the minds of fathers of twins there may be a question as to which is which, but there never is any doubt in the minds of the mothers. A mother knows absolutely which is Tom, which is Dick. One way she can distinguish one from the other is through their cries. She has ample opportunity to learn this from listening to the various kind of cries from their cradle days: the hunger cry, the peevish cry, the naughty cry, etc. She learns the difference in tone quality and in the pitch of the voice. Twins may look exactly alike to other folks, but the mother can very readily tell them apart. She has them labeled all right. Each has different characteristics and mannerisms—early distinguished by the mother. She is with them so much, day after day, week after week, down the years until they come to the parting of the ways, through
MOTHER OF TWINS
college or marriage or both, when they are perhaps separated for the first time. One thing I noticed very early about our twins was the difference in their appetites—the way each attacked his food. Clarence was hearty and had a greater capacity than Lawrence, who was rather dainty in his manner of taking his food. Clarence was bigger and stronger but not any more lively than Lawrence. This is still true of them. When I put them in their crib side by side, Clarence would always finish his bottle before Lawrence. He would then slyly reach over and take Lawrence's bottle and calmly proceed to enjoy the contents thereof. I always knew at what point of the meal this happened. How? From the howls set up by the other one. After this happened a few times, I put one in each end of the crib.
ONE thing that used to annoy me a great deal was when people who came to see me—and the twins—would say, "It isn't much more work to take care of twins than it is to take care of one baby, is it?" I always felt like walking out and leaving them to it for a day or two. This expression nearly always came from people who had never had a child, or from some one who had one child. Until the twins were a year old I was constantly on the job; then I began to ease up a little. What kept me busy I need not tell here. Every mother who with little or no help has taken care of her family and home will know. Many times I was so tired that I would fall asleep if I sat down for a few minutes, regardless of who might be there or what I was doing. Especially was this true after we all
477
had the "flu." It will long be remembered that the latter part of 1918 and the early part of 1919 was the great "flu" year. We all came through safely; but oh! How tired I was for a long time afterwards. One night I picked up one of the babies, who was crying, from the crib and put him in bed with me to feed him. I was so sleepy and worn out that I did not notice I had picked him up the wrong way—his feet were to the breast and his head down, and I wondered for quite a while why he howled so. Of course I know it isn't according to Hoyle or Holt or even McCullom to take up a baby to feed it during the night. It should behave itself nicely and sleep until 6 a. m. But when you have two babies "to onct," as Aunt Het says, they don't always do as McCullom or Holt would have them. That lady from Boston (or was it Portland, Maine?) who urged all mothers to strike for an eight-hour day, didn't know anything about twins,
478
A relative of mine, who is the mother of twelve living children, among them twin girls, has an older sister who was married but had never had a child. This sister used to visit her very often, telling her just how she ought to rear her children (just as all these childless individuals can do). One day, becoming exasperated after so many criticisms and suggestions, this mother turned to her sister and said, 'Well, Sarah Ann, if you know so much about it, I'll take your job and you can take mine for a week and I'll see how you do
The Twins (when they were ten years old) with their mother
it." Sarah Ann soon found an excuse for leaving. On another day these same sisters were discussing the resurrection of the dead. Sarah Ann said she believed that a lot of good people (like herself) would not be compelled to stay in the grave very long, but would be brought forth much sooner than some other folks. To which the mother of twelve (among them twins) replied, "Well, when I die,
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
I mean to rest, just sleep a long long time, before the resurrection. If any one dares to awaken me before I am ready, he had better look out."
MR. BUTLER says, "Twins arrive like a Charleston earthquake. They are likely to happen anywhere on the earth's crust, but are not expected in advance." There are exceptions to this rule. I always had a feeling that twins were in my life plan. My husband and I both came from large families. His mother had twelve children, including twin girls. My mother had eight children, including two pairs of twins. If there is anything in heredity, we could not very well expect to escape having them. However, this fact did not worry us before we were married, as it did one young man I used to know years ago. He had been courting a girl, a splendid young lady, for about two years. Everyone expected them to get married, when suddenly he quit his sweetheart and started to take out another girl. His explanation was that although he loved the first girl very much, he couldn't marry her because he had found out that her mother had twins and he didn't want any twins in his family. The girl was quite broken-hearted about it, but he was firm in his conviction. He married the second girl and lo and behold the first great event in their married lives was the arrival of twin girls. The first girl married another man and she never had twins.
"But for all their pounding racket And their muddy, soggy shoes, Life without them hath been stripped Of half her joys.
MOTHER OF TWINS
TWINS do teach you a lot of things you didn't know before. They also teach you to do things you didn't know how to do before. They teach you to be sympathetic, to be courageous, to be tolerant of other people's ways, to eliminate trifles, and stick to the things that must be done. Every one has perhaps heard of the little boy who said—
"When Auntie came to visit, A year ago or two, She always knew exactly What little boys should do. Then mother dear would worry, And daddy would get mad; For though I tried the hardest I always acted bad. But Aunt no longer keeps us On needles and on pins, She lost a lot of wisdom Since God sent her the twins."
Having the twins has made every thing seem different. I will say
479
with Fanny Kilbourne, "Now when I see a girl or woman pushing a mere single baby carriage she seems like a carefree amateur with absolutely nothing on her brain but her marcel wave." We have had three single children besides the twins, two girls, twelve and eighteen, and a boy sixteen. You see my husband has one more to help him in his work than I have, having three boys. If it were not for worrying about that insurrection Mark Twain tells about, I should like to add another girl to the family.
MY experience as a mother of twins is that it is much more comfortable and much easier to get your children in single than in double doses. But as it fell to my lot to get the double as well as the single, I'll say with the poet—
So let's put our arms around them, Join in their fun and grief; May God bless and keep our happy Mad cap boys."
Mrs. Susan Prince Prisbrey and Three Pairs of Twins
Mrs. Prisbrey, a resident of Washington, Utah, is the mother of twelve children, eleven of whom are living. The three pairs of twins, in succession are the youngest, and they are all well and healthy. They are Rex and Max, age 8; Irene and Eugene, age 2; Merrill and Ferrill, age 6. The picture was taken when the babies were six months old.
Training the Health Habits of the Child
By Elna Miller, An Experienced Home Demonstration Agent Both in North Dakota and Utah
THERE is no bigger job in the world than that of being a parent. The good example and correct teaching of parents control much of the future of the child. The child comes into the world a mere "bundle of possibilities." This bundle is like a tiny bulb with the future plant within itself. We plant the bulb in good soil, give it plenty of sunshine, air, and water, and the plant unfolds. We put the tiny child into an environment surrounded with love and understanding, and out of this bundle of possibilities develops his personality.
PERSONALITY reflects environment. Habits of cheerfulness, self control, truthfulness, obedience, courtesy, courage, independence, sincerity, and love are just as contagious as scarlet fever and measles. So also are habits of jealousy, anger, fear, irritability, and rage. Born entirely without habits, the child, if the training is begun early enough, just as easily learns good as bad habits. The child develops far more of his habits during his first five or six years than he does during any other five or six years of his life. Habits formed during the years before the child enters school affect him not only during this preschool period, but for the rest of his life. They affect alike his physical health, his mental and emotional attitudes, his social relationships, and his spiritual well being. During this period the child must learn that the health game, like every other game, has its rules. He must learn to play the health game by forming good habits of exercise and play, of fresh air and sunshine, adequate sleep and rest, proper selection of food, cleanliness of mind and body.
IN helping the child to form desirable habits, a few points in the psychology of habit should be considered. The first essential for any habit formation is the practice of that habit. The child's attitude has much to do with successful habit formation, and the conditions surrounding the child largely determine his attitude. Mere repetition of the desired habit will not form the habit; it must be repetition with successful results. The child learns the thing that he practices with success. When the habits he practices result in failure, he does not learn them. Practice with satisfaction builds, while practice with annoyances tears down. This does not mean that the child needs to form habits for doing only the things that are pleasant to do. He must learn also to do some things that seem disagreeable to him. In teaching the child to face the disagreeable things, we must help him to build up proper interest; we should let him understand the reasons why such things must be done rather than to enforce blind obedience.
REWARDS and punishments always enter into the process of habit formation. The task which the child is given to do must be within his power of accomplishment. It must not be so hard that he cannot achieve success, nor so easy that failure is not possible. When a child performs his task successfully, he should be given credit for the act.
HEALTH HABITS OF CHILDREN
Praising the child teaches him to want to do things right. Credit and praise for things well done give better results than punishment for things wrongly done. Credit and praise, when given the child, should not be in the form of rewards or pay; the successful accomplishment of the task should be its own reward. Bribes made to the child encourage bargaining. Rewards distract the attention from the task itself, thereby cheapening it. On the other hand, punishments that afford revenge for the parents—as most punishments do—or those that tend to frighten the child, do not achieve their purpose. The parent rather than the child is not infrequently the one who should be punished.
PUNISHMENT should help the child to act and think better; it should never tend to break his spirit; but should so educate and train him that he derives no satisfaction from a repetition of the offense. Physical punishment is rarely necessary. Its main value lies in making the child feel inferior because he loses his sense of honor and self respect. No child should ever be made to feel inferior. A sense of inferiority is often increased by calling attention to his faults by shaming or belittling him. The child is profoundly responsive to suggestion. If he is told that he is a spoiled or a bad child, he soon feels the need of acting the part suggested. The child will have less difficulty in learning desirable habits if those concerned in his training are con-
481
sistent in their demands of him. One should not follow one policy one day and another one the next. The child must learn that "no" always means "no," that "yes" means "yes."
AGREEMENT between the father and mother is essential. Parents should agree on the course to be followed and should never discuss their differences before the child. Neither should they make threats that they do not intend to carry out. Inconsistencies such as these not only undermine the child's stability but make him lose confidence in his parents. Threats are the most useless and harmful of all appeals made to the child. They either control him by terror, which is bad for the child, or they result in an utter disregard of any of the threats because he soon learns that none of the promised happenings take place. Before any threat is made, one should stop and think whether or not he intends to carry out that threat. An unfulfilled promise means to the child one more degree of confidence lost in the one who makes the promise.
ALL training goes on more smoothly when positive rather than negative methods are used If "don't" were a less common word, the child's life would be happier, and his reaction towards correct habits more wholesome. This does not mean that no restrictions should be put on the child. It is far better to let him know what he can do, suggesting substitutes for the wrong thing, rather than to use the negative method of always putting "don't" in the child's pathway.
Dr. Alexander McKean, director of the Utah county health unit, in a lecture at the B. Y. U. Summer school at Aspen Grove, paid high tribute to the Relief Society organizations of the L. D. S. Church. He declared that through the cooperation of the members and officals of this organization, preventive medicine has made more rapid progress in this State than in many others.
Mother's Reverie
By Lurena H. Johnson
My darling child, so sweetly sleeping, I stand beside thee, my whole soul weeping; In penitence and grief I bow For scolding you, my dear, just now, For what you did, but did not know I did not wish to have it so.
In haste I must not censure you But gently guide, so gently teach, In such a way your soul to reach. I want that you should trust in me And feel you have my sympathy And love, so that you will care Your inmost soul with me to share.
I plead with Him, who oft must be Ashamed much and grieved for me, To give me strength, to give me power Over myself, that from this hour, In haste, from me, no unkind word By you, my child, may e'er be heard.
For little things that you may do;
A Double Barreled Paper-Doll Education
By Elsie Talmage Brandley
WHEN a mother has one child she may be heard to sigh periodically and murmur, "Whatever should I do with two?" When the next arrives she gets along with the twain nicely, and continues to demand to know whatever she would do with three—and so on. I know whereof I speak, for it happens that my twelve best friends of school days—our 'gang'—are all married, and average several children apiece; and every one wonders how she ever could manage with one more than she now has.
What to Do For Six Girls
NOW as my first child was twins, I began by asking whatever I should do with three, and it was not so long until my panic-stricken inquiry was answered; and I found it almost as simple a matter to feed, bathe, and love three as it had been two. Then the fourth arrived, and the fifth; and then the faithful old bassinet was harboring the sixth—half a dozen girls: but some time ago I ceased asking an imaginary, unresponsive oracle what I should do with more. I found myself too completely occupied, answering treble-voiced questions such as "Mother, what can we do now?" which were tossed at me several times hourly.
At first my suggestions were impromptu and casual. "Darling, here is a pencil. You may draw rabbits." Or "Play in the sandbox awhile," or "How would you like to swing?" These delightful ideas were seized upon with avidity, carried out in unbelievably short periods of time, but always followed by the chronic, "Mother, what shall we do next?"
Gradually, after a few years of this, I began to suspect that I was delinquent in this matter. There must be more thought devoted to the activities of my four cherubs—(the fifth still loved the sandpile, and the sixth demanded nothing more than her own adorable toes for entertainment). So I began to search my brain and every book to which I had access, for games and busy work with lasting qualities.
Sewing, Hiding Peanuts, Collecting Leaves
FIRST we tried sewing. It worked beautifully for a week, and then it ceased to be a game. It was like wiping dishes—something that Mother did when she was busy, and thus it became incontestably work. We planned a daily and weekly schedule of things to do; but half the time it did not please some of the girls, and the other half the time it did not please the rest of them and the old refrain of "Mother, what would be nice for us to do next?" went on with maddening regularity. We hid peanuts all over the yard, and sent the girls in search of them, but every nut had been discovered within a quarter of an hour—even the two in the hose nozzle. I gathered twenty kinds of leaf from plants in the garden, and sent them out to match each one and tell the captain which bush produced which leaf. That game was far more successful. It lasted thirty-five minutes, and the next thing I heard was "Mother, that was fun. Won't you come out and play it with us?"
484
Shades of ironing, vegetables to prepare, and stockings to darn! Imagine a woman with six children taking time to go out and play! But I did play, and I do play; and in between times I have more time for the socks, and the vegetables, and the ironing, and even manage to get some reading done and a few extra stitches in, not to mention a bit of office work.
The Game of the Paper Dolls
IT all came about in a most ordinary way. Racking my brains as usual one summer day, the memory of a bygone paper-doll drifted through my mind, the 18-inch waists and Merry Widow hats of the ladies undimmed in their glory. I had loved paper-dolls in my little-girlhood; I had spent hours at a time playing with them; I had not needed frequent and varied suggestions as to what I might do. What if, through the law of heredity, it might be possible that my daughters would find in that pastime the same fascination?
OH, wondrous vista of freedom and peace, opening up ahead! Perhaps the four of them would spend hours at a time in this pursuit, untroubled as to what they could do next! I flew to town and purchased a fashion book, full of lady paper-dolls (which would be the mother) and other paper dolls of all sizes (which were to be her children of all ages). Home again I flew, again feverish with enthusiasm, to launch the project which was calculated to provide for me uninterrupted eras of leisure and surcease from planning things to play.
Something intuitive made me wait until the psychological moment. No need to stop the current game of tiddley-winks—it would stop itself soon enough;—and in the past they had seemed slightly suspicious of
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
activities to which I led them with much fervor. They thought I must be having guests in the evening, and working up to the ultimatum that they go to bed early. So I bided my time—or their time—and it was twenty minutes before there fell upon my ears the familiar "Mother, we've played seven games of tiddley-winks, and Joyce can't ever get that in the cup. What shall we do now?"
A Piece of Mother-Strategy
CALMLY, casually I made reply. "I have a book of paper dolls, girls. Would you like to play? I used to love it when I was a little girl, and Grandma was my Mother." Relationships were always intriguing. "When we have little girls will you be their Gramma?" "Yes, dear." "And will Grampa?" "Yes, dear." "But they won't have any uncles, cause we are all girls, will they?" Plainly the paper-doll idea was being sidetracked. "Perhaps we may have a little brother some day, who can be their uncle. We'll see. Now shall we look into this paper-doll business? We'll pretend that the faces of the ladies are all the same, and each costume is simply another dress for the same person. For instance, you pick out all the paper dolls which look about twelve years old, and play each one is a dress for your twelve-year old paper-doll child, do you see?"
Mother Must Play Too
"It sounds fun, Mother, but won't you play with us just at first?" Clearly it was up to me to devote an afternoon to the gentle art of teaching a new game. I could mend Daddy's brown coat, clean the ice-chest, wash the honey off the piano keys, sort the laundry and phone about the curtains tomorrow. "All right, I'll play with you. Come on." "Oh, that'll be nice, Mother. We love to play grown-people's games, don't we girls?" Ardent replies in the affirmative.
That was the beginning of my education. They liked playing something which had in it enough of merit to interest Mother. The fact that I seemed so engrossed in it, lifted it out of the baby class. I put that down in my mental notebook, with the footnote, 'Never let them suspect that your joy in paper-dolls is in the least feigned.'
While this mechanical duty of cutting the dolls out was being discharged, I instructed the enchanted group in the technique of the new and ravishing occupation.
Do What Real People Do
"WE will each have a whole family, and have them do all the things that real families do. They all get up in the morning, help with the work, go to school, have parties, play together, and have all sorts of fun. It doesn't matter if all the ladies don't have faces alike; we play they are all mothers. People sometimes look different from other times, you know. All the dresses we aren't using, we'll play are in the clothes closet. Besides the mother, we'll each have a girl about sixteen, one about fourteen, one ten, one seven, a boy about four, and a baby in long clothes. All the paper dolls which look as though they were about that age we'll have for each one's clothes. Won't it be lovely?"
After all were cut out we selected our names. Betty's was a Cannon family, Barbara's a Parry fam-
PAPER-DOLL
ily, Norma's a Talmage family, and Joyce's were Smiths. Sherman was the name I chose, and our homes were units in the design of the living room rug. I began. "Brrr-rr," I trilled, (in behalf of the Sherman alarm clock) and then speaking for the Mother, "Can it be time to get up? I was having such a lovely sleep that I can scarcely believe that seven o'clock is here. I must hurry and start my little people off for the day. They mustn't be late for school. Every one wants to have a perfect record for attendance and punctuality, so I must do my part."
The four daughters caught on at once. Already they were having their paper doll mothers arise and get the machinery of their various domains started for the day, and were finding great relish in doing the talking for all the members. (One nice thing about these paper-doll families is that it is a physical impossibility for more than one to be talking at a time.) I noticed that they were saying almost exactly what I said. That gave me an idea which I jotted down into my notebook. It was this: Help the children to have their paper dolls talk and act as real children should, not as they do. This will help them to cultivate the habits of correct language and actions, which is bound to have an effect on them.
Model Table Manners and Etiquette
AT that time the notebook was in my brain, but since then I have secured a real one, and transferred into it these observations. My paper doll mother continued. "Breakfast is almost ready, Kiddies. Are you ready for it?" "Yes, Mother dear." I replied, voicing the sentiments of my paper-doll children. During the course of the Sher-
486
man breakfast, one or two splendidly suggestive remarks were made, (by the doll family, of course). "Mother, how lovely to have prunes again!' And graham toast and cereal is my favorite breakfast." Then my mother expressed herself. "Carol, you make me very happy, for you never put your elbows on the table any more; and Gwen, your hands are so clean they fairly sparkle. Neil, I'm sure that there never was a better behaved boy than you are, for you never put too much in your mouth at once, and you always remember to say 'please' and 'thank you'." The emphasis was painful.
Then I began to listen to my real daughters. Each in her own corner was getting her little family launched on the day's activities. I noted with exultation that they were all having model breakfasts—pressing prunes and cereal and graham toast upon the children of their respective families with most fervent enthusiasm, and their several children greeted these offerings with equally ardent expressions of delight. They all appeared overwhelmed at the enormity of the privileges thus accorded them.
Habits Gained Through Play
IT was here that the possibilities of this little play began to unfold before my vision. Perhaps I could teach my little daughters desirable habits and truths via the paper-doll method without subjecting the girls themselves to the unpleasantness of feeling themselves in the limelight. The lives of their paper dolls undoubtedly would firmly impress themselves upon the planners of these lives, and my duty lay clear before me. Plainly I must devote a few afternoons to getting them started along the right paths. And so it began. The children
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
of our paper-doll families went to school on time without being reminded, joyously faced spinach, coddled eggs, and apple sauce for lunch, played together after school with nary a word of disagreement, joyously faced beef broth, carrots and custard for supper, and before going to bed expressed to their mother their unbounded appreciation of her generosity in providing food, mending clothing, and generally being so sweet and long-suffering, while the paper-doll mother responded with assurances of her happiness in living in a home free from quarreling and selfishness, where every child always remembered to brush teeth, wash hands, brush hair, and hang all clothing neatly in place before retiring, and without being reminded.
The first afternoon was a rapturous affair. My kiddies were ecstatic over the new play, and I could see ahead of me flocks of silver linings. Teaching them would be a great pleasure, for in this plan they would not realize that there was teaching going on, and consequently would feel no distaste for the truths being thus subtly instilled. "Mother," they wailed in chorus when I arose, stiff and aching from that corner of the living room which to me will always be the Sherman corner, "must we stop?" "Yes, indeed, for today, but we'll play again tomorrow if you like." Thrilled "goody, goodies" from each attested her interest and gladness. That evening I fancied that they partook of their beef broth, carrots, and custard (the paper doll menu had been planned with malice aforethought) with slightly less disdain than was their custom under those circumstances, but it was a bit too early to be certain. Positive I was, however, that Betty caught her-
PAPER-DOLL
self in time to refrain from talking with her mouth otherwise engaged, and that 'please' and 'thank you' had suddenly become almost oppressively prominent.

The Play Revealed the Personalities
IF it has taught them something, it is but a fraction of what I myself have been taught. In looking back, I marvel at my own stupidity in not foreseeing the possibilities in this direction; for if children need to learn of things from their mother, surely she has much greater need to learn of other things, from them. It began with Betty. I noticed that her paper doll mother invariably expressed her feelings of pleasure with violent hugs and kisses. She talked like this: "Virginia dear, Mother was tickled to death to find the dishes done last night, when she hadn't even asked that you do them. Come to me and get a bear hug!" or "Edith, thank you for putting flowers in Mother's room. I must give you six kisses." Here followed the sound of kisses. At first I attached little significance to these affairs, but gradually it crept into my consciousness that to Betty a demonstration of affection, such as she had her paper doll mother display, meant a great deal. My conscience twinged, for while I have bestowed very tender and motherly caresses o'mornings and at bedtime, I had to confess that it had not gone far beyond that. I decided to experiment.
Each Child So Different
The very afternoon Betty came home from school with spelling and arithmetic papers marked 100%. We were accustomed to putting a dime in her bank for each 100% she scored, but this time
EDUCATION
487
I did not mention the dime. "Why, Betty dear, I'm so pleased and proud! I must give you a big kiss!' This I did, throwing rapturous arms about the child. When I let go, she was transfigured. Tears of joy were in her eyes, and her little voice quavered as she replied, 'Mother, you've never done that before, just like that, and I've simply longed for you to."
A few days later, in Betty's absence, I accorded Norma the same mark of approval when she won the gold star for punctuality in school. She was unmoved, slightly annoyed, I think. "It's nice of you to be glad over the star, Mother," she
said, "but you needn't act like that over it." I was vaguely puzzled. If Norma didn't like that sort of thing, what did she like? What, to Norma, was a real reward? And to Barbara? And to Joyce? To our game of paper dolls I went for answer to my query. It took some little time to get around to it naturally, but little by little, out it came. I found that Barbara always had her paper doll mother promise shopping trips to the children who behaved themselves most pleasingly; Norma's children were invariably given a choice of an afternoon at the library or a new book of their own; and Joyce's Smith children were plied with bars of milk chocolate. Not just once or twice did these things occur, and I was convinced that the constant repetition was not mere chance. These little girls of mine were too young to go far beyond their own horizons, and more and more sure I became that they were putting into the lives of their paper dolls the spirit and detail which, to them, constituted ideal family life. If rewards could be classified in this way, punishments could too,
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
THE FOUR PAPER-DOLL EDUCATORS
perhaps—and they had always bothered me.
The Dark-Room Penalty Unwise
IN the dark ages the rather indifferent sentence of a half-hour in a dark room alone was passed upon all offenders for all misdemeanors of the medium kind, and it had not proved an unmixed success. Betty had always seemed repentant and tractable afterward, Barbara and Norma utterly unmoved, while Joyce was reduced to fury, in which she threw all throwable objects, bit everything which could be bitten, and pierced the proceedings with ear-splitting shrieks. I was heartily anxious to obtain any possible enlightenment on this subject, and to this end I introduced an independent paper doll character—a school friend—who tried at all times to egg the others on to mild misdeeds, for which our paper doll mothers had to administer punishment. The paper doll children, I noticed, were punished as follows: Betty's Cannon girl, for eating the pudding prepared for dinner, was put in a room alone for half an hour; Barbara's Mary had her new dress and beads confiscated and was reduced to the necessity of wearing her old clothes to Sunday School; Norma's Marion was forbidden to touch a book or magazine for an entire day; and Joyce's Natalie Smith had to forego her dessert for two meals. When all the paper-doll girls, at the instigation of their incorrigible paper school friend, went to the Gypsies to have their fortunes told, they were again put under the ban, and these same forms of punishment persisted. I reported progress to the Head of the House, and, acting upon his counsel and my own conviction, tried them out when next occasion presented itself.
Make the Penalty Fit the Girl
IT worked wonders and still does. Joyce no longer has tantrums—she is as meek as a lamb in the face of the danger of having no dessert. In every case the correction is effective when tried out upon the
PAPER-DOLL EDUCATION
daughter who tried it out on her paper doll. For hours I could go on recording the findings of this little play of ours; there have been many instructive ideas innocently expressed by these children, which have given their mother a new slant on the workings of the little minds, and many of them have pointed the way toward a new viewpoint. At first this game took a great deal of my time, but now that the first flush of novelty has worn off, and they are all on to the hang of
489
the thing, they are content to let me spread my paper dolls about me and talk for the various members of my family, while I myself darn or sew buttons on. But if the time consumed had been seventy times seven as much, it would have been well worth while; for what doth it profit a mother of six if she keepeth her windows shiny, floors spotless and furniture polished, if she thereby loseth a chance to look into the hearts of her little daughters, and see there a glimpse of the loveliness which has been given into her keeping?
Wealth
By Pearl Ivie Stanford
Eight, six, four, and two; I count my wealth by years— The first a boy, and then a girl; Just two of each, the dears!
Eight and four, my boys add time, Each year a number more. Six and two, my little girls Are bringing up the score.
Oh, money is essential For the things we buy, you know; But for investments, nothing's quite Like boys and girls to grow!
For learning to be happy And learning to love health There's nothing quite like boys and girls By which to measure wealth!
CONTENTMENT
By Nona H. Brown
High perched upon my kitchen stool, I wash so carefully My dishes, for in his small bed My son sleeps peacefully.
I softly hum beneath my breath A happy little tune. My baby looks so sweet asleep— Oh, dear! I dropped a spoon.
He stirs and puckers up his mouth; I gently shake his bed, Then quickly stoop and lightly kiss The top of his wee head.
His sweet-faced grandma tip-toes in; She smiles and whispers low, "I'm glad he's still asleep, the Pet! Sleep does him good, you know."
The floor is swept, the dusting's done; And now the dinner's on. My little son wakes up, and smiles— Another morning's gone.
MY GIFT
By Nona H. Brown
Tiny son, so close to me, All my heart in joy is dressed. Happiness is mine so sweet, Dearer than can be expressed.
God has been so good to me— Thou art of all blessings best!
Baby fingers on my face, Baby form against me pressed, Tiny head against my arm, Baby lips upon my breast,
Happiness as keen as pain— Who, than I, can be more blessed!
Before the Baby Comes
By Ruth Partridge Richan, R. N.
PRENATAL care of the baby, or should I say the care of the mother before the arrival of the baby, is just as important as care after birth. A sensible attitude on the part of the prospective mother respecting prenatal care may save, in the long run, a great deal of money and suffering. The earlier this care begins, the better for the mother and the child. As soon as you are suspicious that there is a baby coming, go to your doctor; or if you are not suspicious but just don't feel yourself, consult your doctor; or if anything unusual occurs, seek your doctor. This is good advice under any circumstances. Your physician will then ascertain the condition of your kidneys, your blood pressure, and so on. If you live on a ranch or where it is impossible to keep in close touch with a physician, I advise you to study a modern book on prenatal care; and do your best to follow it.
ASSUMING you now in the doctor's care, I will turn to the everyday, home side of the question. If you are going to a hospital, your preparations will be very simple. If you want your baby to be born at home, and a great many women do, preparations will of course be more complicated. If there is any reason why you should be in a hospital instead of at home, your doctor will say so. Don't be alarmed if he does. Birth is a natural thing, but that doesn't necessarily mean it is an easy or uncomplicated thing.
There is no reason any more, except on some occasions, for the old bugbear "morning sickness." There need be no nausea at any time of the day. It may be caused by several conditions, and can generally be alleviated by your doctor, if not entirely eliminated. You may have some very queer food cravings, but satisfy them as long as they are not perversions of a normal appetite; eat anything you want. Nor is it necessary to eat more than usual. Do not attempt to "eat for two." No two women experience the same tastes. One may crave raw cucumbers with salt, another soda crackers. Personally I have found that soda crackers will stay down when nothing else will.
When things are normal, don't be afraid of moderate exercise. If you can't be on your feet, exercise lying down. Swelling feet are greatly relieved by wearing broad, low heeled shoes instead of slippers. I have known women to wear high boots and obtain comfort from them. They also lessen the danger of varicose veins.
DON'T stay at home and miss your accustomed good time with your friends. You need recreation as much as you ever did, and you don't look half as ridiculous as you think you do. A good pair of maternity corsets are a great help too. They make you look trim and neat, and improve your mental attitude. If you feel neat and trim, that is half of it. A good pair of maternity corsets are likely to be expensive, but they pay in the long run, being comfortable and efficient, while a cheap pair only aggravates things.
BEFORE THE
Discard your high heels. They can make you look more awkward and ungainly than anything. There is something stilted and ungraceful in the walk of even the most slender flapper in high heels, not to mention an expectant mother. Your back and abdominal muscles have enough to do at this time without adding to them the burden of an unnatural posture.
SHOULD your skin become discolored, don't be alarmed. It may do so and then again your complexion may be more beautiful than ever before. Castile soap (the genuine comes in bars a foot or so long and can be cut by a string) and olive oil make a very fine combination. If you are inclined to be nauseated, the odor of perfumed soaps and creams will be a great aggravation. There is no odor to genuine Castile soap or olive oil, and they are more efficacious than high priced patented toilet requisites. Olive oil used as a cold cream makes a fine powder base. Also, rub your abdomen daily and well with olive oil. It relieves that drawn feeling of the skin.
I hope that in this day and age there no longer persists the old superstition of "marking babies." You can't do it. An all-wise Providence has made it impossible. Were this once general belief true, there wouldn't be a normal baby ever born.
WHAT your baby is to be, was determined before its parents were married—and long before. Neither can you make a poet out of it by reading poetry before it arrives, nor a musician by listening to music before it arrives, any more than you could make a blacksmith out of it by going daily to a boiler works and listening to the racket.
BABY COMES
493
Look forward, then, to your baby without any hopes and longings for its worldly success, and likewise with no misgivings as to its worldly failure. You can't alter it one way or another except in your choice of a mate.
As for diet, when your nausea ceases, eat vegetables, fresh if possible. Drink freely of milk, and plenty of water. Generally it is more comfortable to eat little and eat often. In this way you avoid the feeling of stuffiness and short breath caused by a too full stomach.
BRUSH your teeth frequently, and rinse your mouth with any one of the alkaline mouth washes on the market. A solution of common bicarbonate of soda will serve. Your mouth will be inclined to taste sour or bitter and this adds to your general discomfort. Keep your bowels open. If you must resort to cathartics, get your doctor's advice about the type to use. Exercise and bulky foods will aid greatly. Get as much rest and sleep as you can. Lie down in the day time if only for a minute or two; stretch out and relax.
FOR the layette, I am not going to say much. It need not be large, and the nicest thing in it should be the christening robe. It is rather a nice thing to put away and keep until the expected child is grown, and then present it to him or her. A clothes basket makes the best bed in the world for a tiny baby. It is easily cleaned, easily moved, and just as cute as can be. It should be equipped with a pillow for a mattress, covered with a rubber pillow case. A tiny down pillow for baby's head should have several washable slips of soft nainsook or linen. Ev-
494
erything should be washable. A woolen shawl of knit or crocheted yarn is a splendid thing to have. Have an abundant supply of clean white rags. Old linen tablecloths make especially fine towels and wash cloths for baby. A square of cloth put in the diaper and burned if soiled will save a lot of unpleasant laundry.
MAKE baby's little outing flannel nighties as simple as possible. They may be turned up under baby and kept dry. One a day is enough if this precaution is taken. Baby's bands should be made of white outing-flannel six to eight inches wide, torn straight across without hems. They are most easily put on when rolled like a legging. Don't put anything all wool next to baby. It is irritating. Wool and
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
silk things are much more comfortable. Don't put any lace around the necks of the little dresses. It is very likely to chafe baby's neck. Quilts of outing flannel are warm and washable, as everything pertaining to the bed should be.
THIS doesn't pretend to be a list of things—it is just a reminder or two of things likely to be forgotten. And now I must close without mentioning a good many things I should, such as medical supplies, and so on; but I couldn't begin to cover the field in my limited space anyhow, so we'll not even touch on it. I do hope that this article has at least aroused your interest and curiosity to the point where you will investigate for yourself.
L. D. S. BUSINESS COLLEGE
SALT LAKE CITY
Hospital Babies
By Harold L. Snow
AT the Latter-day Saints Hospital in Salt Lake City nearly an entire floor is devoted to mothers and babies. All of those babies have to be fed, bathed, put into nice little beds, and tended at all times with the greatest care. If they didn't enjoy that kind of work, taking care of so many youngsters would be a tedious job for the nurses. It keeps them busy every minute of the day, because they sometimes have from thirty to forty "little bits of heaven" on their hands.
THE babies, kept most of the day by themselves, thrive in a big, well ventilated room at the north end of the ward. Just before it is time for the youngsters to have their dinners, some of them begin to cry. If the others aren't already awake, after hearing the crying of the first ones, they soon awaken. Already it is time to visit their mothers, so the nurses come along and load about ten babies at a time side by side on a truck, then wheel them down the hall to their respective mothers. While the truck is moving, the babies, enjoying the ride, become very quiet. But when it halts outside one of the doors for the nurse to take one of the children in to its mother, all the others begin to cry again. Upon continuation of the journey they all again quiet down. But after all their "tummies" are full and the truck starts back for the baby-room, they are quiet. Even as the truck halts by the various doors, those babies that have their places on the truck are perfectly still—they are contented; and as soon as they are placed into their little beds, they go right off to sleep for several hours until mealtime rolls around again.
THE nurse who is supervisor of that part of the hospital, is there for just one reason: she enjoys that kind of work. She loves every one of those babies; and if one of them cries when it shouldn't, she knows that something is wrong. So she picks the youngster up in her arms, speaking to it with great tenderness and finds out just what is ailing it. "Oh we have the dearest baby up here!" she will say; and then she will point out a child that is but a few hours old, really looking to anyone else not a bit different from any other baby so young. But she can tell them all apart, and knows each one of them just as other people can distinguish between grownups. A wonderful thing it is, to be in charge of work so important.
MANY people wonder why the babies don't get mixed up, inasmuch as there are so many of them there together; but that would be next to impossible. Before a babe is placed in the room with the others, its footprint is recorded on a card which is filed away to be compared with another print of the same foot, to be made when the baby leaves the hospital for home. These are just as sure and accurate as are the fingerprints of adults. Besides this, a record of each child is kept in ink on a piece of adhesive tape stuck to the back of the child. At the hospital, therefore, no one need fear losing track of a single one of these interesting and important members of the human family.
Editor's Note: This article may be of interest at present. In addi-
496 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
tion to taking the baby's footprint, the L. D. S. Hospital takes the thumb-print of the mother on the same card. It would be a most extraordinary happening, if indeed it could happen at all, where such care is taken, if children were exchanged in any way.
Mother's Birthday
By Samuel G. Clawson
Today, my heart is filled with song Which trills and warbles in my throat; Today my heart's a silver sea Which carries tiny silver boats; Today my heart's a tea-rose, bower Amid a fragrant sanctity; My heart is richer than all these Because my life was given me.
Today the world is tinged with gold All red and flame and scarlet-flecked; The crickets fiddle in the trees, The world is holiday bedecked; Today my song and joy run rife, And I am thankful, for I see The happiest birthday of my life Because it gave my life to me.
Baby Mine
By Katharine C. McKay
When I first pondered on your coming, baby dear, You did not seem a priceless gift to me, A being sent from God that steadfastly, With tiny hands, would ever draw me near That wonder world, from which you carried here Love, faith and trust, perfect simplicity.
But now whene'er your angel smile I see, Whene'er your tender baby voice attracts my ear I feel my bosom thrill—Oh joy supreme To have you ever near me, to but feel That you are always mine, that God does deem Me worthy of his greatest gift. Dear little child, until The ends of time, forever praising Him, In grateful reverence at His feet I'll kneel.
Address of Appreciation
By President William A. Hyde, of Pocatello Stake
Given Sunday, June 22, 1930, after the Death of His Wife, Maria Reddish Hyde
(Mrs. Hyde was for ten years the president of the Relief Society of Pocatello Stake. She was born September 3, 1864, near Chesterfield, England, and died June 13, 1930. Her funeral was held June 16, 1930, on the forty-fourth anniversary of her marriage to President Hyde.)
FACED with the duty of saying something to the hundreds to whom I cannot speak individually, I take this means of reaching you here today, and perhaps through you, many others who are not present, and whom I cannot otherwise reach.
The last ten days have been very sorrowful ones for me, and yet, if such a contradiction be allowed, in a way they have been happy days. Through my experience I have learned much more of life than I had ever known before. I have learned how broad and universally inclusive is the brotherhood of man, for I have felt the friendship of a multitude. As a pilgrim, temporarily meeting with difficulty, hundreds have met me on the way, and not one but that has given me some degree of comfort. Out of this mass of sympathy, who could attempt to choose the best or most satisfying? The iceman on his rounds, who stood with bowed head in the sacred presence; the rich-hearted old gentleman who brought us a dozen sugared doughnuts, early, for our breakfast; the gentle-voiced women who brought the sandwiches and cakes, and those who cooked the splendid meal for our friends who live a hundred miles away, that they might endure their long night ride; and the many who expressed themselves in the universal language of flowers; and those who sang so inspirationally, were all alike showing respect and giving love and comfort. Money values are lost here—this is the golden coinage of the heart. Strong men said to me, "I have not the words to tell you how I feel." What need of words when one can read the mind, for there is a magic communication in the pressure of a hand!
I HAD once thought that it was a natural thing to fear and hate Death, but now that I know him better, I think that I may almost come to love him. He was pictured to me as a stern-faced old man, who wielded his scythe, cutting down without pity. Now I know him to be different. I see him as a strong, silent, majestic angel, with a face of infinite compassion. He turns away his head while he cuts the cord of life, and then he lingers, and with artistic hands, molds the mortal face to the radiant image of the waiting spirit, and then together they depart. He is not the angel of death—he is the angel of life, for now they pass from under the clouds of earth, into the light of eternal day!
And Death is a great leveler—he makes all men and women alike before him, and in his presence, if nowhere else, we sense a common humanity. And Death is a great restorer, for tears wash out the dry courses of our hearts, and renew our arid lives. And Death is a great cleanser, for
498 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
when a cruel memory brings back thoughtless acts, and inexcusable omissions, he gives us repentance, and our sins are washed away. And Death is a great revealer, for he brings back the past, and unfolds it before us, and we see many little hidden things that we never discerned before, and amidst the trash of our lives we find a jewel now and then. And Death is a great preserver, and keeps as one would keep a priceless gem, all beauty and all excellence, and brings them now to show us. From him we learn again of the great law which reads that virtue, and nobility, and truth, and sweetness are everlasting—they cannot pass away; so we see that in the end, all is truth and beauty.
ONE thing that I have learned these days is that our individual tributes become almost universal. Not in kind, perhaps, but in degree, what was said of the departed may be said of many who heard the words. All in some way may be sacrificing for righteousness sake. All in some way may be pursuing the road she traveled; so of eulogy we may truly say, here is enough and to spare, receive back some that you have given—it is a mantle that the departed cannot use, and it comes to you by right—wear it. He who has been a comforter has now been comforted, and he who comforts now may sometime in like manner receive the comfort of a friend.
AS I think of my companion, now I assuredly know, if I never knew before, that "man is not without the woman in the Lord," and that we men of the Priesthood, who have knelt by the altar with these women, ought "to love them with a love that is more than love," for we may come to the place in due time where they will be out of our lives except through a stronger bond than that of earthly covenants.
One little message the departed would have left, I am sure, if she could have spoken it. It was the burden of her counsel to me. Said she, in effect, there are many little things to do every day; why wait for big things? They may never come. Why write a book—better write a letter to a missionary. "Of the writing of books there is no end," while of individual ministrations between man and his fellow man there is scarcely a beginning. In her theory, life was made up of little things, little remembrances, little attentions. She was transported almost to heaven when you brought her a rose bud. She wanted to be loved a little all the time, not once in a while with great show, and most women, and men, too, I think, are like that. Is not that the true philosophy, for after all is it not love in the ultimate that we are seeking? Is it not the great end—that we may have perfect love? What we do in the line of our Church duty day after day is only to bring us to the place where we can love our neighbors as ourselves, for upon this, and the first commandment "to love the Lord," "hang all the laws and the prophets."
So, my people, companions in the service and in the ministry, today while my heart is warm and tender, I say these things, lest soon in the turmoil of life the fountain of speech be closed to gentle utterance, and such words be denied me.
Adult Education
By Jean Cox, State Department of Education
ADULT education has made more progress in the last decade than any other phase of education. This movement tends to equalize educational opportunity for all. With the momentum already gained, increased attention will center around the possibility and advisability of various kinds of education for grownups.
An immense amount of adult education, informal in nature, is going on now. Service clubs for men offer opportunity for instruction through lectures and discussion in different fields. The immense growth and development of the women's club movement from the very earliest one in 1866, has shown the eager desire and interest of millions of women who are organized not only for self-improvement, but also for group improvement. They are earnest, conscientious, and persistent in their desire to keep abreast. Perhaps the slogan best representing their attitude is "We ourselves need more education. Let's plan to keep after it." They are anxious for further growth and are willing to strive for it.
Libraries offer another means of adult education which gives evidence and convincing proof that the average intelligent American man and woman are not, intellectually speaking, static and inert. The increase in the number of libraries, as well as the large number of books which are passed over the country, has shown that many people desire good books. One of the interesting comments from libraries is that some of the most popular books are not fiction.
Another big educational force is the parent teacher movement. Through the wisdom and skill of the national organization a distinct progress has been made in a better understanding of the child. It has also paved the way for better relationships of the educational triangle, the home, the school, and the child.
Affiliated religious organizations have also contributed much to the education of adult members. These have offered not only opportunity for religious-social leadership, but also for educational-social leadership. Where the opportunity is such as to bring out the best effort of its members, there are almost endless possibilities for organized as well as semi-organized instruction for the members of the various groups.
OUR standards for educational endeavor have also changed rapidly. The requirement for the four year high school or normal course, which was a difficult attainment in 1900, has been extended. The degrees of bachelor of arts or science, and master of science and arts are now considered almost necessary for any kind of leadership in teaching, business, or industry. Many universities now have more graduate students than the total previous enrollment. These opportunities for youth have stimulated parents to make the most of educational possibilities for themselves.
The nation-wide interest in child welfare has made parents conscious of their need for careful study. The scientific aspect of child nutrition and training has opened up new fields of study for intelligent parents. Study clubs, lectures, radios, and correspondence courses have
500
been satisfactory means of stimulating interest in this new subject. Education at any age is necessary for intelligent living in this changing world. Persons of leisure become interested in new endeavors. People who work for their living
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
find that additional training in relation to their work is almost essential for promotion. No individual over twenty-five years of age and up to seventy need fear that intellectual life is finished and that self-effort is useless.
God's Gift
By Lula Wilson Bowler
I know thou sent her, Father dear, This tiny, helpless thing. She came to us from thine own home True love and joy to bring.
And as the days and weeks passed by, Her bright blue, laughing eyes, Her smiling lips and calm sweet face And actions, oh, so wise—
All these and many other things Her little life combined To fill our home with happiness Our hearts with love entwined.
And when twelve months had passed away She toddled, oh so sweet. As cautiously she moved about We watched her little feet.
She seemed so wonderful, so dear, This baby clasped upon my breast, To feel her little arms and lips In "hugs and kisses"—ah, how blest!
Thou was't not sent to cheer the throng Thou dainty lily pure. But in the hearts of those thou loved Thy memory dwells secure.
Our Father only let thee stay Till thou most perfect did appear; Then in his wisdom called thee home, For sin and woe awaited here.
And now I would not thee recall E'en though my heart at times would break. "My Father knows," his will is best; In trouble he doth not forsake.
And so with hope we'll struggle on Nor doubt that you are waiting there To greet us with your loving smile— When we are through this life of care.
"The Universe Around Us"—Sir James Jeans
By Lais V. Hales
OF late much has been written and spoken of the relationship of science and religion. Broadminded people sense the value of both and feel no enmity between them. The scientist, as he surveys the universe, sets down what he finds. He gives us the message which his telescope discloses and we must decode it. This is where religion enters in.
To all of us the nightly rising and setting of the stars and planets provides evidence that beyond the confines of the earth lies an unknown universe built on a far grander scale. In his preface to The Universe Around Us, Sir Jeans states that "we may well admit that science cannot at present hope to say anything final on the question of human existence or human destiny, but this is no justification for not becoming acquainted with the best it has to offer." The twentieth century scientist provides not the final truth about man and the universe but a step in that direction. Through his efforts the last three centuries have seen our conception of the universe change almost beyond description but we have not been brought appreciably nearer to understanding the relation of this life to the universe. Without the aid of religion we can still only guess as to the meaning of life, which, to all appearances is so rare. Somehow, but we know not how or why, life is here.
IN The Universe Around Us, Sir Jeans shows us what the universe is like through the colossal new telescopes. Sir Jeans is an authority of world-wide reputation. His ideal in writing his book has been to make the entire book intelligible to readers with no special scientific knowledge and he has succeeded well with but a few exceptions. He discusses with simplicity and honesty, untouched by melodrama, such fascinating things as the past and future of the earth, the duration of life, the possibility of life in other worlds, the future of the sun and stars which surround us. Sir Jeans has been touched by the romance and poetry of big things and this feeling is brought to us. The book takes us away from the every-day trivialities, and helps us find respite from "the long littleness of life." It is the reading of such books as this that gives us vision and perspective and a relative importance of things. The subject Sir Jeans has chosen is big but he is honest and essentially clear and the result is a classic of scientific exposition—The Universe Around Us.
Sir Jeans offers no theory as to the origin of life. Gradually the earth assumed a condition suited to the advent of life, which finally appeared, he knows not how, whence or why. The old view that every point of light in the sky represented a possible home for life he casts aside. Only a small corner of the universe can be in the least suited to form an abode for life. There is no definite evidence of life, and certainly no evidence of conscious life, on Mars—or, indeed, anywhere else in the universe.
Every year that passes witnesses a levelling of the earth's surface. Soil which was high up on the
502
slopes of hills and mountains last year has now been washed down to the bottoms of muddy rivers by the rain and is continually being carried out to sea. The Thames alone carries between one and two million tons of soil out to sea every year. For how long will England last at this rate, and for how long can it have already lasted. Sir Jeans estimates that the earth is about 1400 million years old, yet the earth's life is only a moment in the lives of the stars.
THERE is no known instrument which can make a star look anything but a mere point of light for it is so far away. The farthest star is so far away that the light which started on its long journey from it to us somewhere about the time when primeval man first appeared is just now reaching us. Through the childhood, youth and age of countless generations of men, through the long, prehistoric ages, through the slow dawn of civilization and through the rise and fall of dynasties and empires, this light has traveled steadily on its course, covering 186,000 miles every second, and is only just reaching us now. Because of the immense distance the stars are away from the universe they appear steadfast. John Keats, in his famous sonnet, voiced this thought poetically—
"Bright star! Would I were steadfast as thou art— Not in lone splendour hung aloft at night, And watching, with eternal lids apart, Like Nature's patient sleepless Eremite, The moving waters at their priestlike task Of pure ablution round earth's human shores——"
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
The stars fail to show any appreciable change in a century. The nearest star is 25,000,000 million miles away. As they age, time leaves its mark, its wrinkles and its grey hairs by which we estimate their age. They decrease in weight and in luminosity. The majority of stars in space are smaller, cooler, and fainter than the sun. A star "may be idealized as a solitary body, alone in endless space, which continually pours out radiation and receives nothing in return."
ALL energy which makes life possible on earth we can trace back to the sun. We may think of our sun as a vast storehouse of bottles of energy which have lain in storage for millions of millions of years. It has radiated light and heat for 7 or 8 million million years and still has enough left to provide light and heat for millions of millions of years yet to come. For this light and heat the sun is dependent on nothing but its own resources; "it is a ship on an empty ocean."
Sir Jeans states in his last and finest chapter of the book that the "universe cannot go on forever." With universes as with mortals, the only possible life is progress to the grave. Findings of science make it clear that the universe cannot have existed forever. We owe everything to the sun. It radiates light and heat and any body which is emitting radiation is necessarily losing weight. Weight is streaming away from every square inch of the sun's surface at the rate of about a twentieth of an ounce a century. The sun is so large that this means that as a whole it is losing weight at the rate of over four million tons a second, or about 250 million tons a minute. Thus, the sun is losing 360,000 million tons a day and 131 million million tons a year. The
"THE UNIVERSE AROUND US"
time will eventually come when it can no longer radiate. Sir Jeans pictures that world so different from our own.
SOME twelve centuries ago, human life was compared in poetic simile to the flight of a bird through a warm hall in which men sat feasting, while the winter storms raged without. For a brief moment the bird was safe from the tempest but immediately passed from winter to winter. So man's life appeared for a little while, but of what is to follow, or what went before, we know nothing. Man only knowing Life's little lantern between dark and dark wishes to probe further into the past and future than his brief span of life permits. "What," asks Sir Jeans, "will happen after the years of radiation of the sun are at an end?" Is the
503
universe doomed to destruction, and must it dissolve away? The solid earth and the eternal hills—will they melt away as surely, although not as rapidly, as the stars?
The cloud-capped towers, the gorgeous palaces, The solemn temples, the great globe itself, Yea, all which it inherit, shall dissolve, And... Leave not a rack behind.
In reviewing a book of this type the best a reviewer can do is to create interest in others to read the book. He cannot tell enough of the theories and thoughts of the book to link them up clearly with the logical conclusions reached by the author. The book is intensely interesting, beautifully and authoritatively written, and possesses the tonic qualities of a cold shower. A faith founded on knowledge such as this book expounds can better withstand the sorrows of life.
Did You Know
By Ellen B. Richardson
Dear little babe, With your mother's eyes, And a dimple just made to kiss, Did you know— When you left your heavenly home, How much joy You would bring to this?
Notes from the Field
THE inspiration of the anniversary year of the Church is in evidence from the "Notes from the Field" in all parts. The observance of this sacred event was general in the stakes of the Church.
Utah Stake: 1930 was also the 88th anniversary of the organization of the Relief Society. At the Utah Stake celebration there was an attendance of over 700; therefore, it is not surprising to report a "gala" afternoon. As the guests entered the festive hall, with its bower of white and yellow, their smiles and warm hand clasps were returned by the long line of stake officers and ward presidents. The program opened with spirited singing by the congregation. Prayer by General Board Member Inez K. Allen. Trio, "Coming of Spring." Words of greeting by President Achsa Paxman were figuratively speaking lighted up by the 88 yellow candles burning on an elaborate white birthday cake. Sister Jennie B. Knight of the General Board brought greetings from the President, Louise Y. Robison. The one-act play, "Soul Mates," contributed to the entertainment and reflection of an eager audience. The stunt program followed on scheduled time and with unusual pep:
1. Silent picture revealed Joseph Smith giving the keys, and the growth of the work up to date, culminating in motherhood glorified through Relief Society work.
2. Scotch Lassies with harmonica band.
3. Eliza R. Snow writing "Oh My Father."
4. Misfortunes of a Relief Society sister taking her Sunday eggs to "Help the cause along."
PRESENTATION AT UTAH STAKE ANNUAL DAY
NOTES FROM THE FIELD
505
5. Story told in rhyme and acted by 21 sisters, telling of overcoming difficulties in Relief Society work on the way to their goal—"success."
6. An officers' meeting 100 years hence. Imagination was not cramped. The judges, believing in a forward look, gave decision here.
7. Two sisters of 30 years' experience lead out. "Love to serve" was beautifully portrayed.
8. "Health and Beauty," 10 years hence through Social Activity.
9. "The Last Quilting," where all finally yield to these "new fangled ideas."
Refreshments followed, during which President J. Wm. Knight of the Stake Presidency entertained, speaking words of appreciation for Relief Society work and the privilege of being there. Sister Alice L. Reynolds, of the General Board, gave a final touch to a glorious day.
The above picture shows one of the presentations on the program of the Utah Stake Annual Day. It tells the story of the Lord, through his prophet, Joseph Smith, presenting the keys of enlightenment to all womankind, in the organizing of the Relief Society on March 17, 1842. Eighty-eight years of growth finds the Spirit of Truth (theology), Culture (literature), Progress (special activity), Service (Social Service), and Peace (work of visiting teachers), all smiling as multitudes pluck fruit from the branches of the Relief Society tree. The most luscious fruit of all their plucking is the gift of Motherhood.
Los Angeles Stake: The Los Angeles stake Relief Society held its third Annual Picnic at Bixby Park, Long Beach, California, June 13, 1930, with 601 members in attendance. The honored guests of the day were all members over 70 years of age; special places were reserved for them at the tables and during the program. Badges were presented them, indicating their respective ages. Luncheon was served at 12 o'clock noon, each ward decorating its own table. This was followed by a program consisting of musical numbers, dances and pageants contributed by members of the various wards, and in which a number of our honored guests participated. The presence of Sister Mamie Stark was appreciated, and her pleasing contribution to the program added much. Practical, though very beautiful were the prizes awarded to the following guests of honor: the oldest man, who was 87 years of age; the oldest woman, who was 85 years of age; the couple who had been married longest, 55 years; mother of 15 children; father of 16 children; the earliest pioneer, who came to Utah in 1851; the longest continuous resident of California, who had lived here 49 years; one who had held membership in the Church 83 years; one with 117 posterity; the youngest guest of honor, whose 70th birthday was June 5, 1930. The annual June picnics have been so successful that they are anticipated each year with great joy and there is a splendid spirit of cooperation existing in all wards of the stake.
Beaver Stake: Health conferences for children of pre-school age are being held, with the help of local doctors, and the follow-up work is well taken care of. Each Relief Society held a ward conference in 1929. The Happy Hour, or Sunshine Committee, organized in some of the larger wards, is doing a great deal in various ways to bring happi-
506
ness into the lives of the aged, homebound and afflicted. Before the close of the vacation in 1929, the ward Relief Society choirs throughout the stake, and other workers, had a very enjoyable outing at Hanging Rock Park, in the Minersville Canyon, under the direction of the stake Relief Society chorister. After lunch was served to nearly 200 people, a program was rendered in the pavilion and some time given to a singing practice on new selections in the Relief Society song book, followed by games and dancing.
On the 17th of March, the Relief Societies of the Beaver wards celebrated conjointly. The West Ward presented a pageant, portraying some of the special features of the work accomplished by each of the General Presidents of the Relief Society. The East Ward gave a one act play, "A Mother's Love."
Expressions of appreciation for the Relief Society Magazine are often heard from the women, as they are realizing more fully as time goes on, the great value of the important courses of study and other reading matter given therein, and the great effort being put forth by those who are sharing in the various responsibilities of its publication.
Wayne Stake: The largest Relief Society conference ever held in Wayne stake convened at Bicknell, Utah, July 15, 1930, under the direction of the Stake Board of Relief Society. President Mary A. Brinkerhoff presided. There were at the sessions, all members of the stake presidency, Wm. F. Webster, Geo. W. Okerlund and Geo. T. Eckersley, also High Counselors Willard D. Brinkerhoff and R. Arthur Meeks, and President of the High Priest quorum, Wm. H. Morrell.
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
Five ward presidents, 5 secretaries and 15 counselors to the presidents were present, and all special activity committees, and all wards and branches were represented except Hanksville, which lies in the eastern part of the stake, 90 miles from the county seat. There were two sessions of conference held, one at 10 o'clock and the other at 2 o'clock. A delicious luncheon was served at the noon hour to 225. Topics treated were: "The Relief Society as an Education," "The Value of Work and Business Meeting to the Organization," "The Value of the Literary Lesson," and "Prophecies of the Book of Mormon." Excellent musical numbers were furnished by each ward and branch. The Stake Priesthood Presidency spoke on the growth of the Relief Society, and gave appreciation for the excellent program and luncheon which were enjoyed by all present. There were present several of the pioneer Relief Society workers who are nearing 90 years of age, Sarah Meeks, of Bicknell, and V. Leah Blackburn of Loa. These pioneers have been Relief Society workers for more than half a century, and lent dignity and spirit to the conference.
California Mission (San Luis Obispo Branch): The Relief Society organization of the San Luis Obispo Branch are certainly to be congratulated in their splendid effort in behalf of the new Church erected in this little sea-coast town. Organized August 28, 1927, this little group of women immediately undertook to do their share in raising funds for the new Spanish-type church building, to which the entire community now points with pride,
NOTES FROM THE FIELD
507
RELIEF SOCIETY PRESIDENCY OF SAN LUIS OBISPO BRANCH
Mrs. May Thornton Glines (center) was the first president of the original Relief Society, and her counselors were, Mrs. Radie Anderson Sullivan (left), and Mrs. Lydia Lee Hausey (right). Under the leadership of these three officers, the women conducted a series of bazaars, dinners, beach picnics and other entertainments which proved popular events, not only with the church members, but also with residents of the community. The results of their efforts, combined with the whole-hearted support of the other saints, was the erection of the church which now serves as headquarters for their branch organization. Their goal reached, the women did not suspend efforts, but have continued, through their Relief Society, to assist in every way the progress of the Latter-day Saints in central California.
Good News for Baby
What is the important news of the day, anyway? Perhaps this little item from Washington ought to qualify: The children's bureau of the department of labor announces that a baby born in 1928 has just twice the chance of living his first year out and attaining a normal, healthy childhood than had the baby of 1912. The spread of medical care to people that formerly had to go without and the increase in skill of surgeons and nurses are doubtless largely responsible. But whatever the reason, the mere fact itself is one of great importance——New York Telegraph.
Suggestions for Work and Business Day Programs
These are merely suggestions and it is optional with the stakes and wards as to whether or not they use them. All suggestions given have been tried in the stakes and reported successful. There are five things we should like kept in mind by those in charge of the work day: 1. That varieties of work be provided so that all may participate. 2. That there be a social value to the meetings and that opportunity be given for informal greetings and conversation. 3. That some sewing be done for the needy, or to increase the funds that may be used to help others, or to provide. Clothing at a low cost to those who cannot afford to pay the full price. 4. That well thought out plans be made by ward and stake officers, and thorough preparations be made for each meeting. 5. That by the end of June, 1931 we should like a report from each stake giving the number and kind of articles of clothing contributed by members of the Relief Society to their ward organization, as asked by the General Board at the April, 1930 conference. ACCORDING to the reports of work day, the most successful stakes have several instructors in the ward, one in charge of the art work, one of quilts, one of remodeling, etc. Each instructor plans and teaches the work for which she is responsible. Many wards found demonstrations of various sorts successful. One ward had members demonstrate their own recipes and serve the group. A penny fund was maintained to defray expenses of this plan. October would be an opportune time to demonstrate sandwich fillings, etc., for school lunches. Commercial 'demonstrators are glad to bring gas or electric ranges and furnish materials to demonstrate cooking. One ward bought package goods at half price to embroider. These were made up on work day and sold at bazaars to increase funds. Suggestions and demonstrations of remodeling winter coats for children might be very helpful at this time of year. No little child in your ward should go to school insufficiently clothed. One stake specialized on table favors in their art work. Many beautiful and inexpensive decorations were made. Ste following is the outline of one stake's plan which was very successful: October—Bound button holes and tailor's tacks. Remodeling dresses and hats. November—Door-stop. Applique quilting. Candy making. December—Bags—wool, silk. Flowers. January—Afghan—new or old material. Hand knit articles. February—Study of infants and the growing of flowers; plant diseases. March—Stenciling and fabric painting; embroidery. April—Pillows—felt, patchwork, applique, toponta quilting. May—Demonstrations in domestic science.  Guide Lessons For November LESSON I Theology and Testimony (First Week in November) Book or Mormon—THE GREAT WAR This lesson covers the material in the Book of Mormon from Chapter 45 to Chapter 52, including both chapters. The Story We have now reached the year 19 of the reign of the Judges, or 72 B. C. The Lamanites are south of a strip of wilderness running east and west from sea to sea, with the Nephites on the north of it. Just here this strip is and how wide it is, we do not know, and it does not matter. 'Alma the prophet, after instructing his son Helaman concerning the records, disappears and is not heard of again. Helaman, with other high priests, goes out to preach to the people. They meet with opposition. Then Amalickiah, a large man physically and an aspirant for place and honor, stirs up trouble. He wants to be king. Moroni, however, is so wrought up over this threat upon freedom that he rouses all liberty-loving men to oppose Amalickiah. The result is that the traitor escapes, with some others, to the Lamanites. Moroni now foresees trouble with the Lamanites. So he prepares for war. He fortifies the cities by sur-_ rounding them by high earth-works, on the top of which he builds breastworks of timber. Then he waits for the inevitable. In the Meantime, Amalickiah, south, perfects his own schemes\ First, he stirs up the sleeping enmity of the Lamanite chief against the northern people. The king orders a war. But the army is divided by fear of Moroni. Most of them revolt. Next, the crafty Nephite is sent to subdue the rebellious soldiers. He poisons Lehonti, their leader, becomes head of the combined forces, marches back 'to the king, has him run through with a sword, marries the queen, and rouses the whole barbarous nation to war-heat. It is a story that matches Iago's in "Othello." Then there is a period of war— which lasts through this lesson, with an interval, and into the next. Amalickiah is killed by a pretty strategem of Teancum's, and his brother Ammoron succeeds him. Several Nephite cities are taken by the Lamanite army, which is very numerous. The interval of peace, as between the two peoples, comes after the first Lamanite army is sent home in defeat by the resourceful Moroni. But it is not a period of entire peace among the Nephites. For some persons of "noble birth,' presumably unworthy descendants of men\who did something for the community, seek to break up the republic and to establish a monarchy. That is, what happens in this lesson." Outline  I Spiritual Chapter 1. Alma instructs Helaman. 510 2. Alma disappears. 3. Helaman preaches to the people. 4. He meets with opposition. II. Treachery of Amalickiah (Chapters 46 and 47). 1. Who he is—description of 2. His purposes. 3. His escape to Lamanites. 4. His plotting among them. III. Efforts of Moroni (Chapter 46). 1. His concern over Amalickiah's conduct. 2. His "title of liberty." 3. His success. 4. Traits of character. IV. War with Lamanites (Chapters "50, 51, 52). 1. Preparation for it by Moroni. First attack by Lamanites. Interval of peace. Attacks under Amalickiah and Ammoron. 7 Sete Notes 1. Amalickiah. This is one of the most striking, well outlined characters in the Book of Mormon. To be sure, he is not an admirable character, as we measure men, for he is engaged in building up himself instead of others. And, after all, that is the supreme test of human worth. Nevertheless, he is a well-defined portrait in the Nephite record. He is a perfect antithesis of liberty-loving Moroni. He is a large man, we are told, and powerfully built. We could imagine as much. And he has a keen mind, too, with imagination. He loves power, has unbounded energy, and knows how to plan so as to attain his ends. It would seem, too, that he has a persuasive tongue. He raises about him, by that means it would seem, a rather large following among the Nephites; and RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE then he leads the Lamanite chieftain and later the chieftain's widow into his trap. If all the details in his life were known, it is not at all improbable that he is the counterpart, in the main outlines of his character, of Shakespeare's Iago, in "Othello." Having chosen his end—the headship of the Lamanites first and then of the Nephites as well—he goes about the matter of attaining that end in the most cunning and systematic way, and utterly without scruples. It is a pity that such a restless, ambitious, far-seeing mind cannot be set to work on some fine constructive. Purpose. But very likely he was not of the type that can be trusted. His main flow is selfishness. In our next lesson we shall be concerned with his opposite—Moroni. 2. Teancum is another character whose outlines are clearly drawn in the very few details we have of him in the Book of Mormon. But he is not of the same class as the selfish Amalickiah. He plans and works for the common good. Equally unresting with that scheming apostate, Teancum thinks always of how he may further the cause of liberty in his nation. Both armies are asleep. Amalickiah is asleep, with his guards, for every one is tired from a hard day's fighting. Teancum alone is awake. He wonders if he cannot strike a fatal blow at the enemy by killing the king. It is a desperate chance to take. But he risks all for the cause. It is a fine picture—this courageous, heroic figure stealing over the wall, moving stealthily to the king's tent, plunging the blade into his heart without waking anyone, and then going back and rousing the Nephite soldiers and holding them in readiness for anything that might hap- GUIDE LESSONS FOR NOVEMBER 511 pen. It is a splendid act performed in a great cause. 3. War does not make very pleasant reading under any circumstances. It is probably what Sherman said of it, when he called it "hell." But there is this to say of the warfare in the Book of Mormon —the details are not given for their own sake. Mormon, whose words we are reading—for it was he who made the abridgement of the "larger plates'—was himself a soldier in his day. And probably he could not altogether resist the temptation to set down some of the particulars in Moroni's defensive campaign. On the whole, however, he practices great self-restraint—for a warrior. And so we have usually only such details as bring out the policy of the Nephite people in their relations to the Lamanites and the purposes of the Lord with respect to the white population here.
(a) The Nephites fight only in self-defense. Never are they the aggressors. Their leaders have a horror of the taking of human life. They naturally do not like to kill, but they have a special objection to killing people in war because these do not have time in which to repent and prepare to meet death. It is a refinement of thought that, so far as I know, is found only in the Book of Mormon.
(b) The Nephites of this period have an intense love for political liberty. That is partly due, no doubt, to the passionate pleadings of Moroni. He is the Patrick Henry of the ancient Americans. Liberty to those people was more precious than life itself. Doubtless they felt, at least, during the period which we have now reached, just as our own beloved president John Taylor put it, "I would not be a slave to God—I'd rather be extinct!" And so they staked their all for this one thing—freedom to think and act.
(c) God demanded righteousness of the Nephites. He demanded righteousness of all who inhabited the American continent. Mormon interjects this passage into his abridgement: "Cursed shall be the land unto every nation, kindred, tongue, and people, unto destruction, which do wickedly, when they are fully ripe. The Lord cannot look upon sin with the least degree of allowance."
(d) In accordance with this law thus set down by Mormon and others in the Book of Mormon, the author of this abridged narrative takes pains to show that whatever blessings come to the Nephites are the result of their righteousness, and that whatever ills come upon them are the results of their wickedness. This war is one of the applications of this principle. And it is helpful to us in reading this account to remember that Mormon was writing this part of the story in full view of the fact that this nation was either going under or had actually gone under. He had before him the whole history of his people.
4. The details of the war are therefore chosen for the purpose of bringing out the larger purpose in the life of the Nephites, and not because the details of it are interesting in themselves. This is not true, say, in a history of the United States. For there these war particulars are set down because they happened to the people of this nation. But Mormon does not work that way. He is writing a religious history, not just a history. His emphasis on Moroni and Amalickiah shows that. So does that incident about Teancum. Always his particulars are subordinated to his main purpose. If therefore we read these war
512 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
details with that idea in mind, this assignment and the one to follow will not appear so dry as they might otherwise be.
Questions
1. Is this idea of Mormon's about righteousness and wickedness being followed by prosperity and its opposite one that applies generally? Did it apply to the Lamanites? Why? Does it apply to the United States? Explain.
2. Does this idea apply to individuals? Give your reasons.
3. Just what acts do you consider "righteous" and "wicked" in individuals? In a nation or community?
4. Is the "prosperity" or the "evil" that comes to the "righteous" or the "wicked" a matter of "reward" and "punishment" or a matter of "results" coming after a "cause"? Explain your meaning, and justify your explanation.
5. Show from this lesson that the things in the Book of Mormon deal with the universal in life rather than the merely temporary.
References: Dictionary to the Book of Mormon, Reynolds; The Message and Characters of the Book of Mormon, Evans.
LESSON 2
Work and Business
TEACHERS' Topic FOR NOVEMBER
(This topic is to be given at the special teachers' meeting the first week in November.)
MEMBERSHIP IN RELIEF SOCIETY
"This charitable Society is according to your natures; it is natural for females to have feeling of charity. You are now placed in a situation where you can act according to these sympathies which God has planted in your bosoms. If you live up to these principles, how great and glorious. If you live up to your privileges the angels cannot be restrained from being your associates. * * * This Society is not only to relieve the poor but to save souls. * * * And I now turn the key to you in the name of God, and this Society shall rejoice, and knowledge and intelligence shall flow down from this time. This is the beginning of better days to this Society."—Joseph Smith.
Nothing bigger can come to a human being than to love a great Cause more than life itself, and to have the privilege throughout life of working for that Cause—Anna Howard Shaw.
Any good woman is eligible for membership in the Relief Society.
I. Admittance to Membership
1. Desire to join indicated
2. Explanation of obligations
3. Recommendation by member
4. Acceptance by majority vote
II. Responsibilities of Membership
1. Payment of dues
2. Attendance at meetings
3. Relief Society Magazine subscription
4. Participation in Activity—social, financial, service, or any call made by president
5. Loyalty to organization
GUIDE LESSONS FOR NOVEMBER
513
LESSON 3
Literature (3rd Week in November)
THE SHORT STORY: STORIES OF ANCIENT EGYPT, GREECE, AND ROME
In Egypt, somewhere between two and three thousand B. C., there was one Ptahhotep of the Pharaoh Dedkere's family who collected the moral maxims handed down from earlier ages. Found in his Precepts was this: "If you are in the position of one to whom the petitions are made, be courteous and listen to the petitioner's story. Do not stop his words until he has poured out all that he came to say. A man with grievance loves the official who will accept what he states and will let him talk out his troubles fully. * * * A kind word will paint his heart; but if an official stops the flow of his words, people will say, 'Why should this fellow there have the power to behave this way?' * * * When Death comes, it seizes the baby which is at its mother's breast as well as him who has become an old man. When that messenger comes to carry you away, let him find you ready."
Change the wording of Ptahhotep's morality a little and it might have been written by some twentieth century moralist. Man, in some essentials, does not change much, and it is the human element in these stories of Ancient Egypt, Greece, and Rome that makes them worth a moment's pause in today's work.
These three ancient countries have been grouped together for two rather obvious reasons. They are related in geography and civilization; because of the limited number of lessons, the story material must be condensed. Class leaders are, of course, free to substitute stories other than the ones designated. Some stories they will feel to be more interesting and more easily handled, but for the purposes of unity a story from each country has been selected, Anpu and Bata from Egypt, Aesop's Country Mouse from Greece, and either Livy's Horatius at the Bridge or Ovid's Orpheus and Eurydice from Rome. Some readers may find that Herodotus' King Rhampsinitus and the Thief is most interesting of the Greek stories, but the subject matter is rather unpleasant. The story is interesting however, if only for the difference in moral ethics between the twentieth century and the B. C's. It is hardly probable that a ruler of today would choose for his daughter's husband such a thief, even if he were wiser than the Egyptians who "excelled all the rest of the world in wisdom."
Some of the class members may prefer a mystery story, there being two in the Ancient Rome section—one The Haunted House by Pliny the younger, and the other The Dream by the author of the Golden Ass. The former is one of the best of ancient ghost stories and shows that ghosts have not changed materially since Pliny's time. The Dream is breathlessly absorbing and still has hair raising qualities.
Aesop, who presumably wrote The Country Mouse is too well known to need mention. His moral tales, dressed in the fabric of beasts, have come down through many ages and are still being told and imitated
514
today. From all that the world knows, he was a foreign slave in a Greek household.
Naturally the Romans borrowed much of their culture from the Greeks, but among them the short story was more highly esteemed than it was with the Greeks. Ovid, author of Orpheus and Eurydice, was born in Rome in 43 B. C. His great literary ambition was to write in verse the chief stories of Greek mythology.
The Egyptian story, Anpu and Bata, was supposed to have been written about 1400 B. C., and the author is unknown. It is a story with a theme as old as Egypt. In the Old Testament the theme is found in the story of Joseph and Potiphar's wife, and writers of every age since have used it. Women, in the opinion of the author of Anpu and Bata, were inferior creatures, for both of his women have no sense of honor and resort to trickery and deceit to gain their ends. Even the woman composed of the essence of Nine Gods was no better than the ordinary mortal.
The civilized world has always been interested in Egyptian history and mythology, and many seekers of religion have felt that deep mysteries and truths have long been hidden in the Valley of the Nile. Much of our civilization has come from Egypt and scholars have felt that country which could produce so many and variegated arts and sciences should also produce a religion as great. But in this supposition they have erred. Men who have made a thorough and prolonged study of ancient Egypt believe that its religion was without a definite system of doctrine, largely unintelligible and unadaptable to reason. Egyptian religion seems to have begun with Animism, a belief that the earth and heavens were filled
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
with countless spirits, many of which abode in animals. Naturally the primitives could not understand animals because they had no means of communication. Animals, then, were mysterious and could cause harm to man. Man, in turn, must someway appease them. So he began to placate animals by sacrifices, after which they in time became spirits and later gods. The water, the wind, the trees, the fields, all were filled with gods, and each tiny place had its local god. In historic times the gods were better organized. At the time the story of Anpu and Bata was written, about 1400 B. C., there was one chief god, Re or Ra, who was god of the sun. There were countless other deities, but the Nine Gods, whose names it would be useless to name, were the most important. Animals, however, were still held holy, particularly the bull. This animal, if he wanted to be highly regarded, must be black with certain markings of white. The Egyptian religion, shown in the story, was still crude and childlike with gods who dealt in magic. But these same gods were walking upon the earth and dispensing justice. Good was rewarded and bad punished.
Questions on the Story of Anpu and Bata
What is the theme of the story? Do you know of any other stories using the same theme? What knowledge is gained from Anpu and Bata of life in Egypt at this time? What evidences do you find in the story that the author was a person of culture? Applying the tests for a good story, show where this one either complies or fails.
GUIDE LESSONS FOR NOVEMBER
Is this story a true short story according to the modern definition? Does the writer of this story have a high opinion of women? Why? In what ways were the two women characters alike? What do you suppose were the particular ornaments and promises that won the wife of Bata? How did Bata triumph over women in the end? Point out human traits that are characteristic of any country or time. Does this story have a philosophy?

Using Ovid's story as a basis,
515
what difference do you find between the Greek and Egyptian religion?
Notes on Anpu and Bata
Ra Harakti: sun god and chief of the gods. Nine Gods: the principal gods. Bull of the Nine Gods: a sacred animal, probably black with the white marks. Khnumu: one of the Nine Gods Hathors: goddesses of love, usually represented as having cow's heads and ears. Persea trees: holy trees.
Muller's Egyptian Mythology was used as the basis for conclusions drawn on Egyptian religion.
LESSON 4
Social Service Fourth Week in November
PERSONALITY STUDY: THE PSYCHOLOGY OF PERSUASION
Based on Influencing Human Behavior, pages 28-70
In these lessons we are using the term "personality" rather frequently. Just what meaning do we have in mind when we use this much over-worked expression? To realize how loosely the term is used ask a few of your friends just what they mean when they speak of a person as having such or such a personality. Is personality, for example, largely a matter of perfume and cosmetics? How much, if any, is it a matter of making use of what we sometimes call "policy" or of being able to prevaricate gracefully? To what extent is one's personality stable so that it may be justly described in the same terms on different days or years? The writer was one of a group who, at one time, at least assented to the description of a certain educator as having a "rotten personality" and then later with no less malice he agreed with others who believed that this same individual could attribute his wonderful success very largely to his "splendid personality." Again, another individual was referred to in the writer's presence as having a "cheap, drug-store, tin-whistle personality," and within a week this same person was described in his hearing as having the "most outstanding and sparkling" personality of any one of about fifteen hundred college students. Do we not need to understand better what psychologists are thinking of when they write or speak about "personality?"
Carr says: "The term 'self' is generally employed to characterize an individual from the standpoint of his reactive disposition. We also speak of an individual's personality when we wish to refer to all those traits and
516 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
characteristics of his self that make or mar his efficiency in dealing with other individuals, while the term 'mind' is used when we wish to characterize an individual from the standpoint of his intellectual characteristics and potentialities."
Thus we see that personality is not just some mysterious "it" which one simply either has or does not have and which is something beyond one's power to achieve. On the other hand it is largely a matter of habits, attitudes and ideals. To improve one's personality in this wholesome and sobering sense of the word is not only our privilege but our responsibility. In this connection reread the quotation from Dean Woodward in last month's Magazine. In this same spirit, Dr. Chamberlin writes: "Persons, not things, represent the only true values. The enhancement of personality is the one proper end of our living and striving." (See Life and Philosophy of W. H. Chamberlin, pages 129 and 182.)
If these lessons really serve their purpose, we shall all have increased our understanding and control of our own behavior as well as that of other people. We shall be better equipped to bring about desirable changes in ourselves as well as in our associates. So much by way of again striking the keynote of the course.
The immediate lesson for consideration is based on our text, pages 28 to 70. First we have a rather interesting and clear discussion of some of our fundamental human wants and then follows another short chapter on the tools with which we may make things vivid in communicating our ideas to our friends. In connection with pages 30-32, consider the quotation from Dewey given in Poulson's Human Nature, pages 49-50. On the problem of human "instincts" compare the text, page 37, with Poulson, pages 160-161, or West and Skinner—Psychology in Social and Religious work, chapter 8. In relation to page 39, consider this extract from Swift: "(People) rarely do the best of which they are capable. They grow to the smallest dimensions of their job and then stop. They do not make a little job into a big one. The reason for this, we have seen, is racial indolence. No more effort is expended in a piece of work than is required to produce a satisfactory result; and 'satisfactory' is a variable quantity. * * * So true is it that man is satisfied with the results which meet the lowest requirements of a situation that this human characteristic may be called the tendency to minimum effort. It is, therefore, of supreme importance that young men and women, during their adaptive period be associated with those whose standards of achievement are high—who stimulate to continuous effort toward better efficiency." Compare these sentiments with those given in Poulson's Human Nature, pages 171, 175. Do you not agree with President Emeritus Brimhall when he says, "We need someone to keep us at our best?"
In relation to the "violent shouting," "angry scolding" and "direful remindings" mentioned on page 45 of the text, it would be well to reconsider problem number six of our last lesson. Is this not important enough to have emphasized again?
Supplementary References
Poulson—Human Nature (Teacher Training Text 1927-28) pages 18-24, 31-39, 49-50, 160-161, 171, 175. West and Skinner—Psychology
GUIDE LESSONS FOR NOVEMBER
for Religious and Social Workers, pages 95-113, 245-262.
Further Problems for Discussion
1. Compare Carr's definition of personality with other definitions you are able to find.
2. Bagby says that traits of personality are "essentially * * * products of the training and the experience through which the individual has passed, especially in the early stages of his development." What things about this statement are especially hopeful and encouraging even to adults? Are our personalities still in the making? What are some of the first steps for us to take so as not to "allow our personalities to shrivel up and cease growing?"
3. Describe in picturesque words the "pouring in" technique and the "technique of duty" mentioned by Overstreet. Contrast these with the more modern type of persuasion which first arouses "in the other person an eager want."
4. Mention several of our dependable and powerful human wants of which we are ordinarily conscious. Mention some that are far more subtle and relatively unconscious and yet very powerful.
517
5. Show that the persuasiveness of the first advertisement quoted on page 51 depends upon how well it induces "vivid imagined experiences" on the part of the reader. Relate a recent instance where you made effective use of what our author calls the "secret of all true persuasion."
6. If you are marking your book as suggested in last month's Magazine, what sentence would you mark with double or treble lines on pages 57 to 63 inclusive? Comment on your selection and compare with sentences which appealed most to other members of the class.
7. Are you becoming more interested in personality problems? How much more worthwhile it is to make actual observations of human nature and to try to influence the behavior of our associates in some of the ways we are learning about than to merely content ourselves with the parroting or verbalizing of the phrases in our lessons! Do you notice too much concern on the part of the members of the class with mere words and phrases? Contrast as well as you can these two methods of trying to understand and influence human behavior.
A Lullaby Song
By Elsie E. Barrett
There's a Lullaby Song 'tween the daylight and dark, Ever crooning the babies to sleep; Lady Button-eyes sees from the sheltering trees, As she lovingly takes a sly peep.
She is ready to waft her calm spell o'er each babe When she beckons some smiles lurking near As she fashions sweet dreams from the moon's dainty beams— Now she's creeping and c-r-e-e-p-i-n-g—I hear—
Just a faint lisping sigh from a baby's pink lips; Lady Button-eyes, smiling and wise, Need no longer delay, so she tiptoes away Just to button all dear baby eyes.
The Three Graces
Happiness
By Henry F. Kirkham
Why not be cheerful Out of life cull; Gather the pleasant, Cast forth the dull.
Why not be hopeful? All is not ill; Time will fulfill.
Why not be friendly Some are worth while; Give them a smile.
Cheer, hope, and friendship, A splendid show, Cost not a dime; Mellow life's footsteps, Make life divine. Smooth out the pathway, Vanquish a sigh; Come, give a try!
Light follows darkness, Your days are fleeting; Downcast and helpless, By Henry F. Kirkham
Some men strive mightly for outward gain, And quest afar to find the rainbow's end. Still yet again in sackcloth and in ash, One may not quench it by a flood of tears
Vainly they dream that happiness is found And measured out like tallow by the pound. While others madly climb the path of fame, Decked in fine purple sit in chairs of state And thus invite but stinging darts of fate. Men crucify themselves beneath the lonely sky With undried eyes—while all the world goes by.?
Alas! For vanity, Alas' for those who seek, Wresting by force what only gods may lend As though this precious gift was some rare toy, A splendid show, an object to be sought And bartered as a bauble that is bought.
Yet certainly is happiness but mind, Commanded by the soul, the heart's desire That burns within as some clear vestal fire. Flaming as bright in beggar as in prince, Nor all of Croeses' wealth add to its years.
Calendula:
Who sits there beside the wall Clad in raiment yellow,! Through the summer and the fall In the sunshine mellow?
Slim her stem and stout her waist, Green her underpinning, Golden frills about her laced In a way that's winning.
Sweet, pert, quaint, bright marigold— Ever bravely shining, Would your light my heart might fold In its deepest lining!
—Josephine Spencer.
Joseph Smith—Genius or Prophet
By James L. Barker
JOSEPH SMITH organized a church. If the church organization has little or no merit, he was perhaps a pretender. If it has great merit, he may have been a genius. If the strength of the organization is unprecedented and humanly inexplicable, it is plausible to assume that he was a prophet and received the plan from heaven.
Church plans are either the invention of the founder and successive officers of the church, the product of scholarship, or a divine revelation. The original plan of the Christian Church was revealed, and must have been very wonderful. Certainly a plan originating with Jesus would be better than any formulated by man.
A church may be strong in two ways: it may be strong institutionally, tending to perpetuate itself indefinitely, and that without much regard to its suitability for the realization of desired ends; it may be a highly efficient machine for the attainment of the purposes or aims that called it into existence.
The Catholics claim to have preserved and developed the original (revealed) plan of the Savior; the reformers tried to restore it (by scholarship); Joseph Smith said he received it by revelation.
If the organization given by Joseph Smith, as I shall try to point out, explains and, in a sense, reconciles the conflicting theories of church government of Catholics, Lutherans, Calvinists, etc., harmonizes known historical facts, and possesses unexampled strength in the attainment of the ends of the Primitive Church, we may reasonably conclude that Joseph Smith's claim to revelation is true, because, as we shall see, it is highly improbable or impossible that he should have been able to invent so perfect a plan, and perhaps all will agree that it could not have been the product of his scholarship. "He (Joseph Smith) talked as from a strong mind utterly unenlightened by the teachings of history."¹
What are the principal theories of church government and their chief merits and defects?
A. J. Maclean (Protestant) in the Encyclopedia of Religion and Ethics speaks of two ministries in the Primitive Church: an itinerant or traveling ministry: apostles and prophets, and evangelists or pastors—terms apparently given to traveling missionaries; and a local ministry: bishops, presbyters (elders) and deacons. Speaking of the commission or authority of the Apostles, ("Apostle" means "one commissioned,") Maclean says: "The point in dispute is whether they received their commission from our Lord direct, distinct from the Church, i.e., whether they derived their authority direct
¹Figures of the Past, Josiah Quincy, p. 377. Boston, 1883.
524 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
from Him immediately or from the people to whom they were to minister." Among others, Catholics adopt the first view; and Lutherans, the second.
In regard to the authority of the priesthood and the offices in it, I quote Funk (Catholic) and Mourret (Catholic) concerning the positions taken by the Catholic Church: "At the beginning, the direction of the Church was naturally left in the hands of the Apostles * * * all of the earlier heralds of the Gospel were also known as 'Evangelists.' From the earliest times we also find mention of bishops, presbyters, and deacons. The latter offices were destined to remain, whereas the former either disappeared with the end of the Apostolic Age (such being the case with the Evangelists). Or, like those of the 'prophets' and 'doctors' were merged in the permanent offices of bishop and presbyter." * * * "The Diaconate, or third class of clerics, * * *."²; "Other orders of clerics were introduced after the time of the Apostles."³
"The organization of the hierarchy according to the Didache or Doctrine of the Twelve Apostles, 70-100 A. D. presents an intermediate stage between that shown us in the Acts of the Apostles and that revealed to us by the apostolic Fathers. Apostles, prophets, doctors, episcopoi-presbyteroi bishops-elders and deacons; such are the ministers who appear to us intrusted with distinct functions." * * * "As founders of the Church, subject to Jesus Christ and the Holy Spirit, they (the Apostles) are vested with special prerogatives, of which the principal ones are doctrinal infallibility, universal jurisdiction and the possibility of receiving a divine revelation for the direction of the universal Church, * * *
²A manual of Church History by Dr. F. X. Funk, Professor of Theology of the University of Tubingen, authorized translation from the 5th German Edition by Luigi Cappadelta, Kegan Paul, Trench Trubner & Co., Bradway House, Carter Lane, E. C., London.
³B. Herder, 17 South Broadway, St. Louis, Missouri. Vol. 1. 52-55.
Their powers are limited by no territorial boundaries. * * * These extraordinary privileges will disappear with the persons of the twelve apostles. No one can any longer invoke them except the Roman Pontiff, and the era of public revelation will be closed with the death of the last one among them. As to the teaching and disciplinary authority that they exercise as pastors, it will last until the end of the world and will be transmitted by means of perpetual succession."?
Thus, according to the Catholic theory of Government, the offices of the itinerant ministry—Apostles and prophets, and evangelists disappear, and their functions are entrusted in part to the local ministry—to the bishops.
Concerning the function of the chief of the Apostles, Peter, Funk says: Christ "also founded one only Church, and by constituting St. Peter chief of the Apostles He made him to be the outward and visible center of His Church. Nor can it be argued that this disposition was only for the time of the Apostles, for it was equally necessary in later times; hence, Peter's prerogatives and duties must perforce have been transmitted to his successors." "And so indeed we find the Bishop of Rome standing at the head of the whole Church." * * * * * * "Another writer, Cyprain, calls this Church the ecclesia principalis, unde unitas sacerdotalis orta est (the principal church, where sacerdotal unity has had its origin,) and even more clearly than Irenaeus, ascribes her chief rank to her having been established by St. Peter." * * * The importance of the primacy of the Church of Rome "consisted in maintaining intact the oneness of the Church; so long as this was not threatened by any departure from the true faith or from correct dis cipline, ?Histoire Geneale de ll'Eglise par Fernand Mourret, professeur d'histoire aus seminaire de Saint-Sulpice, Les Origines Chretiennes, Nouvelle edition revue et corrigee Librairie Bloud et Gay, Paris. Pp. 86-92.
JOSEPH SMITH—GENIUS OR PROPHET
or by any other danger, the other Churches were free to act independently.'" In the Catholic Church then, there remains of the primitive organization, bishops, priests and deacons. Of these, the bishop of Rome, the pope,® is supreme over the whole Church by reason of the "Church of Rome having been established by St. Peter.'" John Calvin did not agree with the Catholics that the bishop is the highest officer in the Church, one bishop, the bishop of Rome, being the chief of all Christianity, but he came to the conclusion that the presbyter (the elder) was the equal Of the bishop. He was led to this conclusion by such historical considerations as are contained in the following quotations: "We do not translate these Greek terms episcopoi-presbuteroi—bishops-elders, because episcopus® overseer is not necessarily the person we call a bishop and the presbuteros can be a bishop. We have seen above that all the presbuteroi elders took part in the Council of Jerusalem, and the Acts of the Apostles, in relating the farewell of Saint Paul to the pastors of the Church at Ephesus, calls them now presbutori elders and then again episcopoi bishops, Acts 17-28." "The name Elder is of Jewish origin. It was the custom among the Jews to entrust the direction of each synagogue to a council of Elders." "The Apostles used this institution as a model in organizing their first communities. St. Paul recommends to Timothy the remembrance of the gift he had 5 Funk, A Manual of Church History, pp. 59-61. 6 * * * "in early times the title of Pope was borne by all bishops."" Funk, Manual p. 61. 7 Funk, Manual p. 61. 8 “The word episcopos bishop was borrowed from the administrative institutions of the Greeks, who designated thus a civil officer intrusted with a task of surveillance or inspection." Mourret, Les Origenes Chretiennes, p. 90. 525 received by the laying on of hands of the Elders, and St. Peter admonished the Elders to feed the flock that is entrusted to them. This word (Elder) was not long in assuming a definite meaning. When, after the death of the Twelve, each particular Church was placed under the direction of a single head; when the institution of the Elder's council had disappeared, and the word bishop had taken its present meaning, the name Elder presbyter no longer designated any thing more than a simple priest * * *.' * * * the authority of the bishop emerges with more relief. Soon the bishop will have absorbed in his pastoral function all of the functions of the apostle, of the prophet and of the doctor.' The article 'Ministry' in the 14th edition of the Encyclopedia Britannica says: "We find St. Paul appointing in the churches which he founded officers named 'bishops' or 'elders,' titles which are synonomous." Calvin and Knox considered the titles synonomous. They did not believe in a church of bishops, priests and deacons, but in a church of priests and deacons only, because, as they said, a priest (elder) could baptize, administer the sacrament and preside over a Church. When Knox organized the Church in Scotland he called it the Presbyterian Church or the "Elders" Church. Luther accepted neither the Calvinistic 'view of the equality of the elder nor the Catholic theory of the supremacy of the bishop in the constitution of the Church. In speaking of the laity, did not I Peter 2:9 say: "But ye are a chosen generation, a royal priesthood, etc.," and did not the Apostle John in Revelations 1:6 say: "And hath made us 526 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE kings and priests unto God and his Father," and "at the end of the century Irenaeus'? Said that 'all the righteous possess the _ sacerdotal rank' and that 'all the disciples of the Lord are Levites and priests'."'? 9Histoire Generale de l’Eglise par Fernand Mourret, professeur d'histoire au seminaire de Saint-Sulpice, Les Origines Chretiennes, Neuvelle edition revue et corrigee, Librairie Bloud et Gay, Paris. Pp. 86-92. It was easy for Luther to conclude that all Christians possessed the priesthood from birth as a gift of God: "All Christians are truly of priestly rank (geistlichen Standes), and there is among them no difference other than that of office, as Paul says I Cor. 12, we are all one body, yet each member has its work, in order that it may serve the others. * * * Since then we are all priests, no one should put himself forward, and assume without our consent and choice, to do that which we all have equal authority to do."? In the Primitive Church it is possible that no one wrote a treatise on the officers of the Church; incidental mention of this or that officer is found in the New Testament and other early Christian writings, but the exact constitution of the primitive ministry is not known. Bishops, presbuteroi (elders), and deacons formed the local ministry, but just what were their functions? How did a bishop differ from an elder (priest)? Etc. That the Catholic is sincere in his acceptance of the constitution of the Church with bishops, priests and deacons; that Calvin, trying to arrive at a knowledge of the constitution of the Church, was sincere in his belief that the elder was in no way inferior to the bishop; that Luther sincerely believed all Chris- 10Treanaeus, bishop of Lyons, was martyred in 200 A. D. 11A, J. Maclean in Encyclopedia of Religion and Ethics, Laity. 12Luther, An den christlichen Adel deutscher Nation und von des christlichen Standes Besserung (1520) tians to be priests, no one perhaps has any serious reason to doubt. W HAT light is thrown on these theories of Church government by the organization given by Joseph Smith? The new organization is helpful in understanding the historical origin of the systems existing in 1830 when Joseph Smith began the work of organizing the Church; and statements insufficiently understood concerning early officers in the Church cease to be puzzling. As in the Primitive Church, there is today an itinerant and a traveling ministry in the Church. As the Apostles directed both ministries in Apostolic times,!* the First Presidency and the Twelve are at the head of both ministries now. Facilities for travel and communication were not generally good in the Apostolic Age, and probably the Stake organization with its presidency and Twelve High Councillors was not known then. If someone today, not a member of our Church, should visit a meeting in London or any other branch in the missionary field, when Elder Widtsoe, or another member of the 18The Apostles "are vested with special prerogatives, of which the principal ones are doctrinal infallibility, universal jurisdiction and the possibility of receiving a divine revelation for the direction of the universal church * * *, Their powers are limited by no territorial boundaries." - Mourret, Les Origines Chretiennes, p. 92. "As long as the Twelve Apostles lived, they were the chiefs of the presbuterot elders in the Churches founded by them, and soon after the period of which the Didache speaks, the council of the presbuteroi-episcopoi elders-bishops having disappeared nearly everywhere leaving its place to a single episcopos bishop it is this name which naturally prevailed as the designation of the head of a particular church." Mourret, Les Origenes Chretiennes, p. 89. JOSEPH SMITH—GENIUS OR PROPHET Twelve, was present, he would say: "An Apostle is in authority here." So while in Rome or Antioch, Peter undoubtedly directed the Church there, just as, in as far as means of communication would permit, he directed the affairs of the Church everywhere. When persecution had removed the Twelve—and their extermination was comparatively an easy matter as they were not numerous like elders and bishops, and were more prominent—the bishop (or elder) had no superior in the direction of the Church, and the (Catholic, Greek, Church of England) assumption that the bishops are the successors of the Apostles perhaps is easy to make. Eventually, the claims of superiority on the part of different bishops gave rise to the Roman Catholic and the Greek Churches, and the view that no bishop possessed primacy over the others found expression in the Church of England.
If someone should visit a branch of the Church presided over by an elder, he would say: "An elder administers the branch, baptizing, blessing the sacrament, and doing everything that a bishop can do: elder and bishop are perhaps two names for the same office, in any case, a bishop is in no way superior to an elder." In the light of the¹? New Testament writings, etc., Calvin (and others since his time) have come to this conclusion. If now, in one of the organized wards of the Church, the visitor should be present during a standing roll call of the priesthood, he would perhaps say with Luther: "Everybody in the Church has the priesthood," though he might not overlook ordination, like Luther, and say they were born with it; as a matter of fact, all the worthy are ordained today to some office in the priesthood.
We have already seen according to Mourret,¹? that "the presbyteros (elder) can be a bishop" and, according to the article 'Ministry' quoted from the Encyclopedia Britannica,¹? 'bishops' or 'elders' (are) titles which are synonymous." Today, as I have just said an elder exercises, in branches of the Church, all the functions of the bishop. It is very likely that small branches of the Primitive Church were presided over by an elder and larger branches by a bishop, one being regarded as more or less temporary and the other as permanent. However, today in a ward where there is a bishop, an elder, though he has the requisite priesthood, can not exercise it and baptize, etc., except as directed by the bishop. Mourret, speaking of the Church towards the end of the first century says "Many signs would seem to indicate, without one being able to be very affirmative on the point, that the Elders had, towards the period of which the Didache speaks, power of the same order as the bishop, for example, an Elder could ordain priests, without, however,
¹?Did Peter reside at that time (at the time of the conflict between Peter and Paul) at Antioch? Tradition gives him the titles of bishop of this city * * * In reality the Apostles were the bishops of all the Churches they had founded; their authority over these churches may be called an episcopacy, but we must not consider this episcopacy organized like that of their successors, in the sense which we attach to this word; but when Peter, the supreme head of the apostolic college and of the entire Church arrived in this 'metropolis of the Orient,' it acclaimed him as a Pastor." Foot-note, Les Origenes Chretiennes, p. 79.
527
possessing the bishop's administrative powers."¹? A. J. Maclean¹? says that "Perhaps presbyter expressed the rank and bishop the function," and "we must remark that by presiding presbyters, he must, being himself a bishop in the later sense of the word, mean bishops." Today, properly directed, an elder may preside, be a presiding elder and exercise all the functions of a bishop, or without being a presiding elder, he may, if so directed, baptize, administer to the sacrament, etc. In Acts 20:17, 20:28, the same individuals are called "elders" and overseers (bishops). This also seems to be true of Titus 1:5, 6, 7. In I Peter 5:1, Peter calls himself an elder, and in II John 1 and III John 1, John calls himself likewise an elder. Today it is understood that, in becoming a bishop or one of the twelve, an elder does not cease to be an elder. A bishop
¹?Mourret, Les Origines Chretiennes, Foot-note, p. 86. ¹?Les Origines Chretiennes, p. 86. ¹?Article 'Ministry' in the Encyclopedia of Religion and Ethics.
528 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
working in the missionary field is usually called an elder, and apostles are usually called elders and refer to themselves as elders.
This exact correspondence between the organization given by Joseph Smith and the organization of the Primitive Church can hardly be due to chance, and it would be due to chance if the organization were his invention. If the correspondence is due to scholarship, it is astounding. Luther was educated for the law and the ministry, was instructor in philosophy and doctor of theology, enjoyed access to books, leisure, and a fairly long life. Calvin was trained for the Church, studied Latin, logic, philosophy, law, wrote the Institutes of the Christian Religion, and enjoyed time for tranquil study. Joseph Smith, a frontier farmer's boy, was without access to many books or learning, lived a life of turmoil, and died a martyr at 38. Calvin and Luther failed to restore the primitive organization, Joseph Smith restored it. By Scholarship? No. By revelation.
(To be continued)
Amber
By Ruth Moench Bell
Never in my life I've wanted to take John Brookbank by the ear and march him home till he got sense enough to behave himself. Once was on account of a cat. The other was—but what is the use? I didn't accomplish a thing either time.
You've heard of Barbara Leslie? But of course you have. Every one has her phonograph records and tries the perfume named after her. And everyone that hasn't heard her sing, yearns for the opportunity. And every one who has heard her, yearns to hear her forever. Her picture is as familiar as George Washington's or Abraham Lincoln's.
When she sang in Cresson, her home town, after all the world had heard her, Cresson suddenly became a great metropolis. People came from towns four times as large. And even the windows and outer steps of our Opera House were jammed with the eager crowd. And applause! Every one was so
AMBER
proud because the real prima donna was our Barbara. After we'd encored her till our hands tingled, I remembered her sister Lydia. Where was she! How proud she must be! Lydia had married humbly and remained in Cresson and was the happy mother of two lovely children. I turned my eyes for a minute from the youthful looking singer to search for her sister. When I found her I certainly felt a shock. There was scarce two years between them and Lydia might have been her mother. Some women bloom after marriage and others fade. And then I suppose singing is easier than housework and the care of two little ones, especially when one's husband has only a small salary and so can not afford much help. Then too, I am told, Barbara knows how to make up skillfully for the stage. Not that Lydia is not beautiful! She has the most lovely mother face one ever saw. But the contrast between the two was certainly sharp. I couldn't help a sigh escaping, because I love Lydia.
In my eyes roving back to Barbara, caught sight of John Brookbank. And of all the effrontery! There he sat with his arms folded across his chest, as proud as if he owned Barbara. His heart and soul were in his eyes and in them lay that unmistakable expression of the supreme devotion of a deathless love. I wanted to box his ears and bring him back to earth. I wanted to march him home till he learned a little sense. I didn't hear the music after that. What was that absurd story I recalled of Barbara and John being childhood sweethearts? Isn't it just like a man to expect a claim like that to hold good in spite of the changes of time and fate?
529
If any other man than John had gazed at Barbara like that I wouldn't have cared. No doubt, thousands of them did whenever she sang. It does a man good to look up and adore. But John Brookbank! The sort of man who loves once and once only, completely and absorbingly. And how happy he might have made some dear little girl whose greatest joy would have been to cook and mend and save and economize and make the home beautiful for John. And how John would have appreciated it all! And now to go and spoil his life falling in love with an unattainable star. And lucky for John that she was unattainable. Why, John couldn't pay for any of the petty extravagances into which she had fallen.
John came to see me the next day. I knew he would. And the ridiculous boy was all enthusiasm about her as though he had already wooed and won her and the disparity of her tastes and his income were a mere trifle instead of a tragic reality.
"Isn't she wonderful, Auntie," he breathed. I was vexed enough to shake him. John is the kind of man every woman yearns to mother. You want to take his beautiful, boyish head in your arms and shield him from all that is not ideal. But today I felt different about him. To go and blunder like that when he was entitled to the best in the world.
"As soon as a woman wins the heights," I snapped, "some man stands ready to bag her and set her in a cottage to cook for him."
"But the peace and comfort of it, Auntie!" he replied. "Besides I didn't wait till she had won the heights! We were boy and girl sweethearts,"
530
"And now you are dreaming of the peace and comfort of a quiet fireside while she is dreaming of more clamoring multitudes and maids to dress her hair, diamonds and limousines. It would take a millionaire to supply all her expensive tastes. And I know of at least two who are moving heaven and earth to get her. They won't want to drag her down from the heights to cook for them. And they can supply her jewels and gowns, mansions and maids and money."
"And divorce and misery," John added.
"Not necessarily," I retorted.
LATER in the day, Barbara dropped in just as she used to. "Your singing was grand, Barbara," I cried. "There were two who did not care for it," she chided. "Two who sat like Hindu idols and neither came up to say a word after." I knew she meant John and me. So much has happened since, that I don't know just what I replied. But I tried to show her in a round about way that she must not think of John. I wanted to show her that John deserved something better than years of misery toiling for a woman who couldn't share his toil and shouldn't. I am afraid I must have blundered, for she did not come back for some time. Though she decided unexpectedly to spend her summer in Cresson.
Then Cresson became the center of many activities, mostly connected with Barbara. I must confess, it was the most interesting and exciting summer Cresson ever spent. First, her manager arrived after many telegrams. A most stormy scene ensued. He threatened to cancel her contract if she remained in that little obscure town. He declared she was sure to lose prestige. How was he to keep her in the public eye
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
if she led the humdrum existence of such an ordinary town even for one summer.
"You might feature me in the simple life," Barbara laughed gaily. Already she was the most care-free rested Barbara you ever saw.
"I might do that," he fumed. "Got any pictures?"
"Loads of them," Barbara smiled. "Lydia, where are those films you had developed?"
It seems, Lydia had been having a perfectly gorgeous time taking pictures with Barbara's camera. She had snapped Barbara and the children in every conceivable pose.
"Give them to me," he cried. And without waiting for explanations of the pictures, off he tramped to the station. And Barbara and Lydia enjoyed one good laugh wondering what possible use he could make of those films. They had just one more laugh coming when a prominent magazine came out with pictures of Barbara Leslie leading the simple life, in the home of her childhood. Lydia did inherit the old Leslie home so that much was true. But Barbara was the guest and not the hostess of her "small niece and nephew."
Then appeared pictures of Barbara and Max Jr. tramping in the woods, the woods being nothing but the old apple orchard. Barbara studying the vocal chambers of her small niece, was really Barbara taking a look at the child's throat before prescribing a swab or gargle for her sore throat. Barbara on horse back was a handsome picture. Barbara was magnificently tall and straight wearing a costume she had used in some opera. "Barbara romping on the spacious lawns of her estate with her niece and nephew," was good but Barbara insisted that the "spacious lawns" were about the size of a good, generous table cloth.
AMBER
Inadvertently, I imagine, the name of the town slipped into the article and soon the town was deluged with wires and letters. Sara Duntly, the operator, insisted that they had to employ a messenger and keep him on the road between the telegraph office and Barbara's home with messages and answers.
AFTER innumerable rebuffs, Sara Duntly kept the town posted, of course, the richest-millionaire of all her admirers, in a wonderful car, chaperoned by his chauffeur and shadowed, I might almost have said over-shadowed by his valet, arrived. He happened in on Barbara, charmingly attired for dusting Lydia's parlors and she was actually dusting them, not playing at dusting them. Lydia declared that his scorn was terrible, that Barbara should so demean herself, doing tasks meant for servants. But when he found his scorn was getting him no where his pleas were most pathetic. After several days, during which time he put up with what he chose to call our "execrable hotel," he sped through the village a much chastened man. On the whole I was rather glad Barbara did refuse this man. His scorn might not have been so amusing to Barbara after she had married him and it might have broken out on many occasions. There was one good feature about his coming. It should have shown John Brookbank the absurdity of his aspiring to claim Barbara.
WE all felt rather sorrier for the second man of wealth who came very simply and was deeply moved at the sight which first greeted his eyes, Barbara wheeling Lydia's new baby on the side walk before their home. There had been just such a picture among Lydia's films but the manager had scorned to use it for the magazine. Fashionable ladies, I am told, even when leading the simple life do not wheel their own baby carriages. That joy is reserved for the maid. I think Barbara looked more kindly on this suitor. At least I thought so till she burst in on me one day, soon after he left, and laid a familiar baby dress on my lap.
"What is this, Auntie," she breathed.
"Your baby dress," I replied.
"Oh, no," she cried, "there must be some mistake. I found it among mama's things. But mama was rich and these are rich in the work of her own hands," I added.
A low sob came to her lips. There is something infinitely appealing in the work of hands that have loved you and are still.
"It is beautiful," she cried, "and mama's fingers made it so. But the cloth—what does it mean?"
"It means that a woman loved a man, an erring man, weak and wayward. It means that she left wealth and luxury to toil by his side. For her parents cast her off and she had nothing when she went to him—nothing but her beautiful faith that her love for him would give him strength and courage to endure."
"Pine resin that endures becomes amber," Barbara breathed tearfully "Pine resin that endures——"
"I repeated, for the phrase seemed so peculiarly an interpretation of Shirley's life and Walt's.
"It is an old Chinese legend," Barbara explained. "Pine resin that endures becomes amber."
"Amber! That was your mother's soul, Barbara. As clear and true and rare and beautiful as amber. And your father's too. He
532
also endured and his trial was perhaps as hard as hers."
"Tell me about it, Auntie. Grandmother never did," she begged.
"Out to a lonely cabin on an unploughed tract of land, they went that Walt might be far from his enemy when the craving grew too great for him. And when the wonderful mystery of creation was to be hers, she who had never fastened her dress or brushed her hair or worn any but the finest of fabrics fashioned by the most skillful fingers, wrote to her girlhood friends—'send me your flour sacks, if you can spare them,' she said. 'We could not understand what she meant to do with them but we sent her plenty. And while Walt toiled in the field, she washed and bleached and cut and stitched by hand and embroidered the dainty dresses that were to clothe the little form for which she yearned. And she never knew that there had traveled back from town with them on one of their trips that which would have wrecked her happiness.
"Walt had buried it in the field meaning to have just a little when the craving was more than he could stand. One day he came in guilty and miserable for a cup. Your mother sat by the table cutting out a little garment. Over the back of a chair a finished one hung. And in a heap were the tell-tale sacks waiting to be cut and sewed.
"Both were uncomfortable. Shirley's confusion and her attempt to conceal her sewing roused Walt's suspicion. He lifted the little garment. He looked at the uncut sacks. Outside in the field lay a keg the price of which would have meant better clothes for his baby. And suddenly your mother's tender, uncomplaining devotion, her blind, faith in him and the peril into which he had nearly plunged her, swept
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
over him. He realized that she meant to conceal them from him to save him the pain of hurt pride.
"He didn't get the cup but he did catch up the ax on his way out and smash the keg into bits. And that night the little girl wife slept as she had slept before, unconscious of the final victory. That her love had won.
"Your father told me it all as he sat on the floor by her dresser with the heap of baby clothes beside him and you, a little new-born infant in his arms. Both of you were crying pitifully. While in the next room lay the little mother and beside her the first baby, who slept on, unconscious of the tragedy in her little life."
"Lydia," she sobbed. "Only two years old."
"Yes," I answered. "But grandfather and grandmother reared us and were always good to us. They must have forgiven her."
"They did. In the presence of that quiet, gentle form, forgiveness was so easy. No one could have looked at Walt, broken and bowed and only half himself—without her and withheld their sympathy. Women have done big things in the world, things that could be applauded from the house tops. But somehow it has all seemed so little since I saw your father rocking you and weeping on the floor. It was something to reclaim a soul from the darkness and something to have made him love her so entirely. Her death left him so broken that he offered no resistance to anything, not even to death when it claimed him a few years later. So your grandparents took the two little girls. And one of them merged her life with that of a man, and home and children claimed her. The other was given every opportunity
AMBER
to develop her marvelous voice and the world claims her. Her life belongs to it."
"And if she slipped out of it tomorrow, Auntie, there would be a thousand others to take her place," Barbara took up the refrain solemnly. "And no one would miss her. Not one of all the clamoring multitude would mark her passing."
"You do not understand dear, the world wants you and your beautiful voice,"
"Do you know who makes it want me, Auntie?"
"Your lovely personality, dear, and the voice."
"Plus a manager who draws half my pay because he succeeds in making the public want me."
"But you win them."
"After he catches them, Auntie. Oh, there is a thrill! A tremendous thrill comes over me as I sing to the swelling and throbbing of countless hearts. There is intoxication in their applause. But the strain and the anxiety. First to make of oneself an instrument capable of charming the multitude. Then to hire some one whose sole business is to compel people to desire one. Then the strain of making good on each individual instance. Then going over it all again and again. And each time 'Will any one come?' And if they do, will they care to hear me again?"
"But after you marry this wealthy Hartwood," I supplemented.
"Things look so different to me since I came here and found grandpa and grandma gone and all the wealth they thought they had, dwindled to nothing. There is something so sweet in sister's life. I know she does not look well just now. But she will get stronger as the children grow older. Her hus-
533
band is so truly wrapped up in her. And the children love her so dearly. A thousand singers could take my place and I would never be missed. A million mothers could not take the place sister fills, not ever in a life time."
"But she isn't accustomed to luxuries as you are."
"That is true, Auntie, and for that reason she cannot know how little they can mean in a life."
"And she doesn't seem to mind the work and careful management that a small income implies," I continued. I had to do my duty by John Brookbank.
To my surprise Barbara dropped her head on my knee and a low sob escaped her. "Don't you think there is anything of Walt and Shirley in me, Auntie?"
It was useless. I could see she was bent on wrecking John's life and hers. I lifted the hand she laid on my knee, resigned to the disparity. Then something on the satin-smooth skin reversed my harsher judgment. It was a round, scarlet burn, familiar to every housewife. I kissed the brave stain tenderly and understood. She was learning to bake bread for John.
I don't know why he came and sought her there. But there was a quick step on the walk and the door opened and John Brookbank stood on the threshold. Both of us looked up with our eyes full of tears but it was not me that he folded tenderly in his arms. Indeed he seemed unaware that I was there and presently I wasn't.
"Pine resin," I thought to myself as I slipped quietly into the next room. "Pine resin! We are all as pine resin and some of us become amber."
The Dawn of Hope for Saint and Sinner in the Life to Come
By J. H. Paul
II. Is Eternal Punishment Endless?
CAN we reconcile, or rather, how do we reconcile, the thesis of the first chapter—that the Most High is the everlasting friend of man—with those scriptures which seem to teach that the vast majority of mankind are doomed to eternal misery? For certain oft-quoted texts have been almost universally so interpreted. We are asked by old-time theologians to accept as the fixed decree of Omnipotent Power that a large portion of the human race are destined, possibly predestined, to a condition of everlasting future retribution and degradation. And our question is, Can the loving and merciful Father of our spirits, or can the Savior of the souls of men, though the chief characteristics of their nature are love and kindness, yet doom to endless perdition and irretrievable woe the greater part of the children of heaven? These essays, and the scriptures, maintain that such a conclusion is truly impossible.
The Myth of Eternal Torture.
TO the Latter-day Saints, salvation is destined for all men, except, possibly, the few indicated as "the sons of perdition," about whose fate we know almost nothing. It is clear that some degree of salvation awaits every member of the human race. But it will be unique to show, and this material will be especially useful among missionaries in the field, that within our own century of progress many wise men have been driven to the same general conclusions that for 100 years have been among the best established doctrines of the Church. A few of these will be quoted, using, as far as brevity will permit, their exact words, and summarizing faithfully wherever their expositions are too lengthy for entire inclusion here.
It has now been fifty years since C. S. Henry, D. D., published a small volume entitled "The Endless Future of the Human Race" (D. Appleton & Co., 1879), in which he answers the question, "What does the New Testament teach concerning the duration of future punishment?" He quotes freely from a little book entitled, "Is Eternal Punishment Endless?" said to have been written by a Dr. Wilson. The main part of his volume, a letter to a friend, was written several months before Canon Farrar's "Sermons on Eternal Hope" were preached, and before the article in the North American Review on "The Doctrine of Eternal Punishment" was published. These were among the first to break away from the "orthodox" doctrine that the fate of myriads of the human race—the great bulk, indeed, of mankind—will be one of never-ending sin and suffering in the world beyond the grave.
What Is Everlasting Punishment?
DR. HENRY begins with the celebrated text from Matthew
THE DAWN OF HOPE
24:46, which the English translators have thus rendered: "These shall go away into everlasting punishment: but the righteous into life eternal." The intention of the translators is clear: They thought that our Lord intended to declare positively the endless duration of future punishment. Is their translation correct?
In the original the words here rendered "everlasting" and "eternal" are denoted by the single Greek word aeonian; and the passage reads thus: "These shall go away into aeonian punishment: but the righteous into aeonian life." Greek scholars say that aeonian is an ambiguous word, used in a great variety of meanings in the Old and in the New Testament. "The adjective aeonian, neither by itself nor by what it derives from its noun aeon, gives any testimony to the endlessness of future punishment. Futurity being represented in the New Testament as a succession of aeons, 'aeonian punishment'—is of indefinite duration; all that 'aeonian' gives with any certainty is that the punishment belongs to or occurs in the aeon or aeons to come."
Penalties Limited to "Aeons"
DR. PUSEY, celebrated for his Biblical learning, says that the word aeonian can not rightly be translated as absolutely everlasting. Dr. Taylor Lewis, equally eminent, says: "Aeonian, from its adjective form, may perhaps mean an existence, a duration, measured by aeons or worlds, just as our present world or aeon is measured by years or centuries. But it would be more in accordance with the plainest etymological usage to give it simply the sense of aeonic, denoting "the world to come." 'These shall go
535
away into the punishment (the restraint, imprisonment) of the world to come, and these into the life of the world to come.'"
Other Greek scholars, Dr. Henry says, can be cited to the same effect; and he concludes by showing that aeonian life signifies a certain kind of life, rather than its duration—a spiritual state, a disposition, or character of the soul. He finds that the word is so used in many passages; "He that heareth my word and believeth on him that sent me... hath aeonian life" (John 5:24). "This is aeonian life, that they may know thee, the only true God, and Jesus Christ whom thou hast sent" (John 17:3). These and similar passages denote a spiritual state, a kind of life and not length of life.
Scriptures Do Not Say "Endless"
PERHAPS there are ways of using Greek to denote endlessness, just as there are in English. Why, then, did not our Lord choose the word that would denote endless punishment, instead of using, as he uniformly does, the ambiguous, indeterminate word aeonian? "I am bold to say, that it was because our Lord intended not to make a decisive declaration as to the duration of future punishment. Whatever his reasons were for leaving the question undecided... One thing is certain, namely, that they give me a perfect right to deny that he has decisively taught the endless duration of future punishment, and leave me at liberty to entertain whatever opinion on that point I find good ground in reason for adopting."—Henry.
In like manner it is found that the text in Mark 3:29, "hath never forgiveness" has the word "never" substituted for "not" in the original, which reads, "hath not forgiveness for the aeon, but is involved in an aeonian sin." So, Matt. 12:32 reads.
536 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
"It shall not be forgiven him either in this aeon or in the aeon to be."
Forgiveness in the Next World
IT is remarkable that St. Augustine himself derived from this text the idea that in the coming aeon (age) some would obtain forgiveness who were unforgiven in the present.... The Scriptures speak of futurity as running its course through 'aeons of aeons.' What, then, of him who finds no forgiveness in the aeon that is to be? We cannot assume that he will never find it in any succeeding aeon."
Having shown that the Scriptures do not teach endless punishment, but clearly indicate future forgiveness for sinners, Dr. Henry proceeds to give the basis of his hope in the final restoration of all men, whether saint or sinner, to goodness and blessedness. The basis is that God is love, and love is devotion; and since, in perfect love no selfishness can exist, and "since God is righteousness and therefore incapable of doing anything wrong, he is incapable also of wronging a single human being."
Proof from the Fatherhood of God
Moreover, "we are the offspring of God; we owe our existence to his fatherly love." Formed in God's image, we were created free and rational like him, and destined to become like him. "It lies in the very necessity of his essential goodness that he should desire us to realize this supreme end of our being"—the "dearest wish of his heart that each of his children should, in the measure of the capacity of each, become like him.
"Our sinfulness is revolting to him, but it does not destroy his love.... To his tender love for mankind we owe the method of salvation disclosed in the gospel—a salvation from sin, from its inward, deadly power—a salvation that only God could provide, by sending his son into the world there to live, to suffer, and to die.
"Why this particular method of intervention in our behalf was chosen I cannot say... Nor how it is that Christ's coming, living, suffering, and dying effected the salvation of the human race."
A Ransom for All
WE only know that "God so loved the world that he sent his only begotten son that the world through him might be saved." "What a monstrous doctrine it is," continues Dr. Henry, "which says God sent his Son into the world that a part only of the world might be saved, leaving the rest, in countless millions, to a foreordained fate of helpless, hopeless, endless perdition! What a doctrine which says that Christ laid down his life not for every man but for a certain arbitrarily selected number! In the gospel as I read it I find disclosed a provision for the salvation of all men, even though the knowledge of the method be not now imparted to all.... And so it is said that 'in every nation he that feareth God and worketh righteousness'—according to his light—'is accepted of him.' And whatever knowledge it is necessary for him to have, shall some time—in God's good time—be given; and what is not given in this world will, I can not doubt, be given in the world to come."
Gospel in the World to Come
"What reason—compatible with God's character—can be imagined why he should not carry the dispensation of the gospel into the world to come? Why should he not continue to do there what he is now doing here?... Why, I say, should he stop trying to rescue sinful souls from the dominion and misery of sin, merely because they have passed from this world into the world beyond?
"Certainly the event which we call death cannot make any change in God's loving and merciful disposition toward men.. Nor can that event be conceived as working any such change in their spiritual nature as to make them no longer subjects for his divine mercy, or to put them beyond the reach of his reclaiming efforts.
THE DAWN OF HOPE
"The paramount object of punishment is the reformation of the sinner—the great object of all the severe and painful discipline to which God often subjects his creatures here in this world, not for his own pleasure but for our profit, that we may be partakers of his holiness; and this, I persuade myself, will be the great object of the chastisements of the world to come."
Where the Many Mansions Be
"There are many mansions in heaven, we are told, and I doubt not there are also many mansions in hell. Every dweller there will be put into the one he ought to be put into—the one that is best fitted for him; and will have to undergo there the sort and degree of purifying discipline which is necessary, fit, and most for his good.
"Why is it that our Lord has made such a disclosure of the sufferings to be endured in the world to come? Was it not to let us see that being wicked is far worse, since it excludes us from God, than being punished for our wickedness—more dreadful than any outward punishment it may entail? So that we may more strongly resolve to gain deliverance from sin in this life than from its punishment in the life beyond the grave.
"This I know, that God is not cruel. He doth not willingly afflict or grieve the children of men.'.... It pains him to give us pain, even as it pains the good earthly father to punish his son for his son's own good. He no more takes delight in the pain he inflicts than the tender-hearted surgeon does when he cuts off his patient's limb to save his patient's life.
The Pain That Purifies
"The awful language in which our Lord (in Mark 11:42-48) with six times reiterated warning bids us beware of the folly of incurring aeonian sufferings in the life to come" has been mistakenly construed as declaring not only the endlessness of those sufferings, but as inflictions of the divine wrath—of the worm that dieth not, and the fire that is not quenched—a horrible notion that our Lord's language does not justify.
"Gehenna and its worm and fire—to which Christ makes allusion—were a beneficent agency, consuming what would otherwise have made the air of Jerusalem unfit for man to breathe."
537
The language therefore suggests and sanctions the idea that these sufferings are a needful purifying discipline inflicted by the hand of the all-merciful Father.
The Human Heart Bears Witness
The human heart, the conscience of mankind, testifies the truth of this doctrine. Since men are to live forever, they will live, not in despair and misery, but in hope, happiness, and progression! It is half a century or more since the poet Mackay wrote:
Tell me, my secret soul, O tell me, hope and faith, Is there no resting place From sorrow, sin, and death? Some lone and pleasant dell, Some valley in the West, Where, free from grief and pain, The wearied soul may rest?
Faith, hope, and love, Best boons to mortals given, Waved their bright wings And answered, "Yes; in heaven."
Analytic writers appeal to human sentiment and feeling to discover the righteousness of courses of action and the destiny of the human soul, and think highly of that method of finding the truths of character and the probable future of man. "Go to your bosom, knock there, and ask your heart what it doth know"—is an appeal to the highest human authority for those who accept the view that man is the offspring of deity and therefore destined to return to his home in heaven. Those who do not share this view may be able to treat lightly the witness of the heart as to the truth of certain ideas relating to immortality; but those who hold that man is the child of God are strongly inclined to accept the demands of
538 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
the spirit of man as indicative of the reality of the things demanded.
Must We Wait?
Must man wait, as Mackay felt he must, till the next life in order to find the assurance of the soul that all are seeking, and that, apparently, not many seem to find? Salvation here and now, that is, the assurance of it, is what recent writers often contend for; and no doubt it will be the feeling of many that these writers make too much of certain promptings and hopes. Elsewhere, (in the "Dream of Youth") I have tried to show that our desires exert a dominating influence upon the course of our lives, and to such a degree as really to shape our future. Though this is a fact so remarkable that the present writer sometimes hesitates to maintain it, yet that is what is meant—a simple fact of experience and observation backed by the authority of the wisest men.
Saved By Hope
A remarkable declaration of this fact was made centuries ago, by the wisdom which is not of man. The apostle of intellect (Paul) after laboring to show what is meant by the doctrine, "by grace ye are saved," at length told the people this wonderful truth: "We are saved by hope." And if it be said that mere hope cannot save any one, the fact is proved in Romans 8:34-36. And since the human yearning is so influential that it does, to a high degree, save us here and now, we can well believe that it will finally have its way hereafter, since it has eternities in which to finish its work.
The "Dry" Side of "Wet" Canada
By Frank Steele
THOSE Americans who hold up the system of government control of liquor in operation in Canada as an ideal solution to the age-old "liquor question" must be unacquainted with the situation as it actually exists in the dominion. It is true that the provinces of Canada are showing millions of profits annually from the sale of liquor, much of which is contributed by tourists from the United States, but at what a price? There is a "Dry" side to the story of "Wet" Canada. Government control is not the Utopian answer to the whisky problem that it is often painted.
The making of strong drink easily accessible in Canada may fatten the dividends of breweries and distilleries; it may pyramid the surpluses shown by the provincial governments; it may lure more tourists and may help to build better roads; but what of the price of all this traffic? Does it pay a government to go into the liquor business?
One city in Canada, Toronto, the "Star" of that city told us in June last year, spent in two years $25,000,000 in booze, as much as the city spent on school buildings in 29 years. Toronto is paying twice as much in a year for liquor as it pays in salaries to its 3,000 school teachers. Continuing, the "Star" said: "Technical education is rated as one of the most important items in the life of the city—the preparation of its youth to take its place in the world of industry. Yet for every dollar that Toronto spent on technical education last year, it spent over $12 at the cashier's wickets in the government liquor stores."
These figures for one Canadian city indicate the staggering waste in rum and that waste is steadily mounting for consumption under government sale is increasing. Canada's bold attempt to meet the problem of liquor by the system of state sale has attracted wide attention particularly in the neighboring country to the south—the United States—where the enforcement of nation-wide prohibition legislation is taxing the resources of the nation. Canada's experiment is being closely followed and too often erroneously pictured.
The Canadian government, through the department of trade and commerce, has issued an illuminating Bulletin on "The Liquor Traffic in Canada" and by reason of its official nature it is of special value in any analysis of the situation undertaken with a sincere desire to get at the facts. The data in this valuable Bulletin was prepared by Prof. L. W. Moffat of Wesley College, Winnipeg, and Prof. J. T. Culliton of McGill University, Montreal, the matter covering the period from 1912 to 1928.
The figures summarized show that under Prohibition the consumption of liquor was greatly reduced, and under government sale the consumption greatly increased; also that increase in crime and increased access to liquor have gone hand in hand. Government sale in the various provinces went into effect at different times from 1921 to 1927. According to the Bulletin the population of Canada during that period
540
increased less than 10 per cent yet the per capita gallonage consumption of liquor increased as follows:
Year Spirits Malt Liquor Wines 1923 4,316 188 -- 1928 425 6,070 679
Frank Yeigh, Canadian writer and statistician, gives the liquor bill for Canada in 1927 as $180,000,000, and certainly in the past two years it has not grown less. The mineral production of the dominion in 1928 was valued at $128,500,000. Place these two sets of figures side by side and one catches a glimpse of the terrific economic drain on the nation occasioned by the liquor traffic fostered by the state.
Now as to the increase of crime: From 1922 to 1928, indictable offences in Canada increased from 15,720 to 21,691, or 37 per cent. Convictions for drunkenness from 25,048 to 33,095 or 32 per cent. Violation of liquor laws, from 8,519 to 15,150, or 77 per cent. Criminals listed as immoderate drinkers, 63.9 per cent. An interesting point cited in the Bulletin is an increase of 109 per cent in deaths from alcoholism.
From these trustworthy statistics a different situation is disclosed to that inferred in the flippant and frequent cry: "Canada has the right idea on the liquor business." A favorite argument of advocates of so-called government control is that it tends to encourage moderation in drinking. But does it? The province of Alberta, for instance, supplies some illuminating data on this contention. In 1925, the first full year under government control 375 interdictions for excessive drinking, were registered, and in 1928, 792. The total number of interdicts
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
in Alberta on June 15, 1929, was 1,288 and 58 of these were women.
Now not all the provinces of Canada are "Wet." Prince Edward Island is still in the "Dry" column and is likely to remain so for in two years the people have given two pronounced mandates to their government on the question. The answer to this consistent adherence to prohibition may be found in the very satisfactory social and economic conditions prevailing under the prohibition law. Prohibition in that province has not shown itself fruitful of crime and lawlessness. On the contrary, crime in that little province "by the sea" is extraordinarily light, for instance:
Convictions per 100,000 population in 1927: Assaults, for P. E. I., 11; all Canada, 36. Breaches of liquor laws, P. E. I., 76; all Canada, 131. Vagrancy, P. E. I., 11; all Canada 80. Drunkenness, P. E. I., 210; all Canada, 314. Keeping, frequenting or inmate of bawdy house, P. E. I., 1; all Canada, 25. Loose, idle, disorderly, P. E. I., 8; all Canada, 58.
All this information serves to reveal the fact that there is in very truth "another side" to Canada's story of government control and sale of liquor. And Canada is fast awakening to that fact as anxious eyes look beyond the imposing array of booze profits to the increasing jail population, the mounting figures for crime, the millions spent on rum that might be diverted to constructive channels, and the demoralizing social and spiritual effects of this growing evil upon the lives and homes of the people.
The Relief Society Magazine's New Editor
WITH this issue of the Magazine we present to our readers our new editor, Mrs. Mary Connelly Kimball. Through her literary productions, covering a period of many years, Mrs. Kimball's name is already familiar to the readers of the Church. She was for sixteen years editor of the Young Woman's Journal, and she has also contributed interesting and scholarly articles to other of our Church periodicals. In addition to her writing, Mrs. Kimball is well known as a forceful, eloquent, clear cut, and logical public speaker. It would not be an exaggeration to say she is broadly educated, she is a philosopher in her thinking. Even now, her fondness for study is such that her spare moments are devoted to graduate study that she already has considerable credit toward the degree of Master of Arts. As a member of the General Board of the Young Ladies' Mutual Improvement Association she has travelled extensively during her long service, speaking in the interest of the work of this great organization. With her religious background and ideals, coupled with her education, experience, and natural ability, Mrs. Kimball is unusually well qualified to serve as editor of the Relief Society Magazine and thus guide in a general way the reading, the study, and the thinking of the mature women of the Church. Her leadership will be wise, safe, progressive and inspiring.
Louise Y. Robison Amy Brown Lyman, Julia A. Child, Presidency.
MARY CONNELLY KIMBALL
Mary Connelly Kimball
By Ruth May Fox
"Verily she is the King's daughter And the King's daughter is all glorious within, Her clothing is of wrought gold."
HOW lovely it is to be able to apply such a beautiful sentiment as the above to one we know and to feel in our hearts that it is the truth! But anyone who has been intimately acquainted with Mary Connelly Kimball will gladly confirm the statement.
Mary's splendid characteristics were largely determined before she saw the light of day. Was not her father born of good, Irish stock, and has he not manifested all through his life the qualities that make for real manhood—determination, honesty, thrift, and good business ability, with a real love for acquiring knowledge? Good books have been his delight and a splendid memory has stamped their contents on his fine mind so that he is a most interesting and entertaining conversationalist.
Her mother was a pioneer, crossing the plains in 1852, leaving a comfortable home in Lincolnshire, England, to join her fortunes with a despised people. She had heard the voice of the Good Shepherd, and henceforth she meant to follow the sound thereof. This genteel, English lady joined hands with John Connelly, bringing to his home the womanly virtues that men so much admire in their wives—gentleness, consideration, sincerity, self-control, and an unselfish devotion to her husband and family, believing and practicing the scriptural adage, "A soft answer turneth away wrath." Comfort and exquisite cleanliness made their home an inviting and restful dwelling place. ARY was born in Salt Lake City, February 19, 1876, and she early manifested the qualifications that marked her life. No sooner had she made her initial bow than she gave an exhibition of her will-power. The nurse was about to give her her first drink of water when she grabbed the spoon. "Gracious!" said the nurse, "'she's going to feed herself." As a small child she was the idol of her parents. Her beautiful red, or shall I say auburn hair, hung in ringlets to her shoulders. Her featurers were regular and beaming with childish vivacity; indeed she was a lovely flower—winsome and sunny-hearted. But Mary did not have auburn curls for nothing. Every day they must be combed and brushed and curled over the finger. Sometimes the operation was not at all pleasant. "Ouch! You're pulling my hair out," the little tot cried. This would happen day after day until her father threatened to have the ringlets cut off, but as usual her mother intervened and smoothed the troubled waters, as well as the curls. Everyone that knows Mary can readily surmise that she blossomed into a lovely, charming lassie, with hair and countenance radiant as the morning. We know also that she was bright, ambitious, studious and determined to achieve success. Self-control and poise marked all her relationships. A love for learning has, during the whole of her lifetime, been one of her outstanding characteristics. 544 While at school in the Eighth Ward, and later in the L. D. S. College, she made splendid records in scholarship. Nor was she satisfied upon being gratuated from the normal department of the University of Utah. After finishing this course in 1894, she went on with her studies in the college proper and was graduated from the University of Utah with the degree of Bachelor of Arts in 1898. In all her school and college work, her marks were high and: her interest intense. She had now reached the goal she had set out for. She wanted to be a teacher, not just as a means of making her own way in the world, but she had a desire to give real service to the pupils who should come under her tutelage. For nine years she taught in the public schools of Salt Lake City, being employed the last few years of her teaching career in the high school. She was unusually successful. Promptness, dependability and preparedness won for her an enviable record. Her sweet disposition, her justice, together with her good, common sense, made her a favorite with the hundreds of pupils that were privileged to come under her care. Naturally, her splendid qualifications led her into the Mutual Improvement work. Soon she was made Counselor and later President of the 21st Ward Y. L. M. I. A. On the division of the ward, February 9, 1902, she became the first President of the 27th Ward. On August 6th of the same year, Nellie Colebrook Taylor invited her 'to become an aid on the Salt Lake Stake board. On March 23, 1904, after the Salt Lake Stake was divided, she was called to {work on the General Y. L. M. I. A. Board. Mary ~ Journal. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE approached her Mutual work with the same preparedness and with the same spirit of helpfulness that characterized her school work, and naturally her kindness, patience, and faith won the hearts of all with whom and for whom she labored. In September 1907 there came another call, which meant that she must give up her employment, the work she loved so well. This she did willingly, although at some financial sacrifice, and became the Editor of the Young Woman's This position she held for sixteen years and was only released because she was moving from the city. How well she performed this labor is told in the pages of that magazine. Not only did she write editorials, but many articles are the results of her talent. Bur perhaps the most outstanding virtue in Mary's galaxy of virtues is her family devotion. She was ever loyal and trustworthy, an affectionate companion to her mother. To her father, faithful, kind, and considerate. She has been the keeper of his home for many years, to his entire satisfaction —the solace of his declining years— diplomatic but never retaliating or given to be dictatorial. He has many times been heard to say, "There may be daughters as good as Mary, but there are none better." Nor is that finest of all attributes —motherly affection lacking. Mary is a real lover of children, to the delight of her neighbors, whose little tots seem never so happy as when Mary is lavishing her attentions upon them. One of her own family, a little niece, also is mindful of her love and interest. For a number of years Agnes, this being her name, found MARY CONNELLY KIMBALL a real home with Grandfather and Aunt Mary, where her educational and physical welfare was solicitously taken care of, resulting in a love and affection that will never be forgotten. ON June 5, 1923, to the surprise of all her friends and associates, Mary was married to Andrew Kimball, President of the St. Joseph Stake., This was somewhat startling to her friends and associates, who little dreamed that this incomparable woman who had passed the heyday of her youth would ever marry. That she had had opportunities, no one doubted, but it was argued, Mary will never exchange her freedom and single blessedness for the bonds of matrimony, no matter how silken they may be. Yet, here she was, married to the man of her choice, loving and beloved, with happiness to the full. Surely she had found the abundant life. For be it known that this was no frivolous love affair but genuine and romantic as was the love of Paul and Virginia, or Romeo and Juliet. For one short year her bliss was complete with a-rosy future stretching out toward the horizon of perfect peace, but scarcely had the honeymoon ended when _ sickness laid a heavy hand upon her splendid husband, who-had proven himself to be all that a woman, even of Mary's calibre, could desire. Mrs. Kimball was an adoring wife, nursing her husband through his months of severe illness with the greatest patience and solicitude. His family regard her with the deepest admiration and affection, which she reciprocates. In them she feels to a degree the kinship and the spirit of her husband. Like a true 545 wife she loves everyone whom he loved. The community where he lived and over which he presided so admirably for so many years is sacred to her. ARY was one of the first group of missionaries called to be a worker on the Temple Block. She 'has been a 'Sunday School teacher, a valued member of the Authors and Ensign Clubs. These are known for thorough work and exclusive membership. Needless to say that praise: and appreciation for her labors are voiced by all members of these groups. The members of the General Board of Y. L. M. I. A. With whom she has labored so long, love her and still claim her as their own. Her ability, her sympathetic kindness and willingness are proverbial. Every member of the Board while deeply regretting that their close association must be in part severed, heartily congratulate the General Board of the Relief Society that they have been able to obtain the consent of the First Presidency to install. Her as the Editor of their splendid Magazine, a position for which she is so well fitted. She will, we know, bring honor to the Magazine and to the organization with which she is now affiliated. M ARY'S past is a fair index to her future. Calm, clear and serene her life like a beautiful river will glide peacefully along, rippling and sparkling in the sunlight of heaven. \ Its tributaries, knowledge, experience, and wisdom will flow down from the everlasting peaks of intelligence, to swell the tide until her joy shall be full and the satisfaction of a well spent life shall circle her brow 'as with a diadem. Role of Emotions on Digestion and Health By Anna Page, Nutrition Specialist H! What a headache," exclaim- () ed Dick as he hung up his hat. "What's wrong?" asked Ted. "The usual thing. Bridge until 2:30 this morning.. The hostess served a rich, delicious lunch at midnight." “I suppose you had coffee too," inquired Ted. "Yes," answered Dick, "coffee always keeps me awake. I can't seem to relax afterwards. Say, my wife cooked a good breakfast this morning, Coffee, pork sausage, fried potatoes and pie, but I couldn't eat a bite." "Neither would I eat all that fried heavy indigestible food at that time in the morning. A man would have to be doing hard outdoor work to: attempt to eat that type of breakfast. And I suppose you got up late, so you tried to eat in ten minutes," remarked Ted. "Well yes, I did, you see I couldn't go to sleep until long after I went to bed. I have had a lot to worry me lately, my insurance is due and I lost some money on the stock market. Jane, my oldest daughter, wants to stop school and get married," defended Dick. "Oh, I know, the usual thing, you have been worrying about so many things you cannot help that your nerves are all jumpy, you cannot eat or sleep and have indigestion. If you do not stop you will have serious stomach trouble." How often have you heard a similar conversation? People do not realize the close connection that their State Department of Education emotions and nervous system have on digestion and health. Under our present civilized life, many people are constantly under the influence of the major emotions —fear, anger, pain and hunger. Pain, anger, fear greatly interfere with the digestive processes and may be the cause of serious disturbances. The secretion of the digestive juices by the stomach, intestines and glands are hindered by strong emotions. I. Is not an uncommon experience for those who are subject to fits of temper to suffer from sick headaches, gas production, and mental dullness following an exhibition of emotion or temper spell. It has been asserted that the healthy person does not realize he has a heart or stomach. This is as it should be. These organs perform their functions better when we are wholly unconscious of them. Dr. Alvarez says that digestion can doubtless be upset in sensitive persons by strong emotion, fatigue, improper methods of eating and constipation, Most of these conditions can be readily controlled. Seventy-five per cent of the food problems today are due to 'poor digestion and not getting people to eat right foods at the right time. Many of the headaches, nausea and the too often feeling of being indispose are the results of indigestion and constipation. An important rule in protecting the digestive system is to have the right atmosphere when eating. Pleasant conversation and agreeable 2 ROLE OF EMOTIONS company are necessary for the right atmosphere to promote good digestion. This makes possible the enjoyment of the food and creates the proper psychic conditions which enables the digestive system to perform its work well. The sight, odor, or thought of food starts the secretion of the digestive juices and consequently promotes the utilization of food. Foods well cooked, flavored and attractively served help to promote the secretion of the digestive juices and make digestion easier. The room should be clean, light, and well aired for the right atmosphere. Conversation at the table should be agreeable and of a very pleasant nature. Since any unpleasant emotions interfere so seriously with the digestion, it is wrong to scold children or to discuss matters relating to discipline at the table. The family table should not be the daily court for the individual offender. It is unfair to the child to discipline him at the table. One wise mother follows the rule of. Never scolding or punishing the child a few minutes before eating or at the table. At that time she does not seem to notice the misdemeanor, but after an interval of two hours or more from meal time, the hour of reckoning comes. A similar plan is recommended for other mothers, if followed they would have very satisfactory results. The table is not the place to read or discuss shocking topics that appear in the daily paper. Business affairs, especially if they involve questions which give concern, should be put aside at meal time. Wrangling at meal times, seems particularly detrimental to the digestive processes. Some wise old Jew has pointed out "Better is a dry morsel, and quietness therewith, minutes. 547 than a house full of feasting with strife." Eating in a hurry is a practice that is highly condemned. Everyone should have time to eat three meals a day. It does not matter whether you live to eat or eat to live, eating is one of the most important things you do. Everyone should spend at least twenty minutes, preferably thirty to forty minutes, at the table for each meal. For children, they should be required to stay at the table thirty If children are allowed to leave the table when they desire, they form the habit of rushing through their meals in order to go play. The American people are noted for their habit of hurrying. They are not taking sufficient time to eat as is shown in the following experiment. An observer stood at the entrance of a cafeteria in a large city. During the noon hour he watched the people go in, select their food, eat, and pay their bill. He found that the average time taken was eleven minutes. Probably the most important rule to follow in the protection of the digestive system is to take three well balanced meals daily at a regular time. Displeasing sights and odors inhibit the flow of digestive juices, this decreases appetite and delays digestion. It is well known that the appetite suddenly fails if bad news is received or if one is subjected to a shock such as an automobile accident. Persons who are greatly worried do not develop a desire for food, and if taken it is not well utilized. Food eaten under strain or emotion usually does not digest as quickly or as easily as does food taken under normal conditions. When one is emotionally disturbed 548 it is wise to eat but lightly or not at all. HAT is the effect that emotions have on the digestive system? Unpleasant emotions check the secretory activity of the digestive glands. The salivary glands and stomach glands are affected in the same way. Many people are familiar with the dryness of the mouth which inexperienced people suffer from when trying to address an audience. There is often sufficient fright to stop the secretion of saliva. A similar effect is produced on the other digestive glands. In the stomach the appetite juice is stimulated by sight, odor, or memory of food. This secretion may be stopped by fear, anger, or pain. These emotions interfere with the muscular action in the stomach and intestines, causing them to cease their activity which results in delayed digestion. THE stomach has the function of serving as a reservoir for the food. When the food remains in the stomach over a long period of time, bacterial growth results producing a whole array of indigestible products. Many people speak of the stomach, blaming it for many of the aches and pains they suffer from. While really the stomach is a most tolerant organ. For years it is generally either starved or overfed. It must receive and take care of all kinds of substances from milk to clay. It is stimulated by coffee, irritated by alcohol, tortured by drugs, altrenately scalded and dulled, and yet it works on, doing its best, though receiving the blame which rightfully belongs to -its owner. Some people complain of their bad stomach all their lives, while in reality the poor thing is not at fault as 'mental condition. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE it is doing its best. Its great failing is that it is too sympathetic, reflecting the troubles of its neighbors. The importance of avoiding as far as possible the states of worry and anxiety, and of not permitting grief and anger and other violent emotions to prevail unduly is not commonly appreciated by the majority of the people. These alterations in the intestinal system are so subtle that they are unknown to consciousness, but these changes have been clearly demonstrated through physiological studies. For example, in the rat any sign of distress or rage was accompanied by a total stopping of the movement of the stomach. From the work of Pavlow and Cannon we have learned of the intimate relationship that exists between the states of mind and secretion and motility of the intestinal tract. Disturbances in secretion of the gastric juices, either in increased or decreased amounts are noted in cases of mental strain, mental over work, anxiety, worry, hysteria, neurasthenia, melancholia, and certain physic conditions. One of the most interesting studies at the present time is the relation of intestinal abnormalities and distortions to mental diseases. It is certainly a suggestive fact that a considerable number of cases of severe intestinal disturbances are seen in the insane asylum. In one case an intestinal operation restored a man to a normal Previous to the operation he had been a frequent inmate for a number of years. Fig control of hyperacidity in a worried, fatigued individual is practically impossible. During periods of stress, worry, fatigue, and nervous excitability, it is ROLE OF EMOTIONS extremely difficult to control the acid in the stomach. This may be because at such times the nervous unbalance prevents the normal relaxation and contraction of the opening between the stomach and the intestines. This means that there is not the normal mixing of the acid contents of the stomach with the alkaline contents of the intestines. The longer the food remains in the stomach, the more acid is produced, this may cause hyperacidity. It seems very important that in nervous people all conditions which produce a state of excitement should be avoided. Every effort should be made to encourage the patient and to make him as comfortable and happy as possible. Many persons whose nervous system is abused get digestive upsets, due to emotional upsets. Asa result the person audits all possible causes and effects: He then decides that one certain food caused all the disturbance. He eliminates that food from his diet, then in a few days another food 'is eliminated. 'What foods will he have left to live on? Middle aged people are apt to rule out a long list of foods because of abnormal attitudes. Very often it is not the food that is at fault, but the nervous condition that the individual is in at the time of taking the food. There is no surer way of destruction than to keep a close audit of your digestive tract. Eat a well balanced diet then let your digestive system alone. There is a difference between physical fatigue and nervous fatigue. If you are at peace with the world with no regrets, but are physically tired you will want to stop and rest. Those nervously fatigued do not want to stop and rest or cannot stop and rest. 549 Women in particular become nervously exhausted. For example, the typical mother with a never ending round of attention to details in the home, or the too ambitious woman who likes to serve a great variety of food. Many women at the present time become so busy with clubs, social activities, or church work that they become nervously exhausted and irritable. All this strain makes the woman more conscious of minor noises. She becomes more nervous because she loses control and cannot rest when the opportunity comes, she shifts hands and position, fidgets, and makes many movements which makes one fatigued. She does an unnecessary amount of work. The fatigued housewife does not want to go to bed, then fusses after she goes to bed. A normal person is indifferent and goes to bed to rest. The nervous woman will find many things to worry about. But nothing is more foolish than to misuse the nervous system. Women go too far. Beyond a certain point the amount of good resulting from overwork is too small for the price the individual has to pay. Many persons tire themselves out by putting too much energy and emotion into trivial tasks. Women very often get all stirred up over little things. They review at great length painful or annoying experiences, which a more sensible person would promptly forget. American people are not taking sufficient thought to safeguard the nervous system. Sit down voluntarily and frequently. Make this a habit. Protect the nervous system and you protect the digestive system. Exercise, play, recreation, sleep, and relaxation help in the protection of the nervous system.
Uncle Jay Helps in Understanding
By Joseph Jenkins
UNDERSTANDING people is about the one thing that most parents don't aim to do. They will study their cows and chickens and gardens, but they will leave to good luck and the schools the job of understanding their kids." Uncle Jay was talking to himself this morning, as he did when he had a thought on his mind. He had just finished listening to Mrs. Jensen's story of her daughter's "skipping out and getting married without saying a word to her dad or to me."
"If that woman would just spend a little time with her children when they are young and ready to be directed, then she would not have to see her girls ignore her when they grow up. I think parents are about the most lazy things there are when it comes to their one big job; to understand and train their youngsters."
UNCLE JAY was thoughtful this morning. Beth had confided in him her determination to get married, and she had her mother's opposition.
"But, Uncle Jay, I am going to fool her and marry Jack whether she likes it or not. She wants me to work so that I can pay back a bit of the expense I've been to her. Gosh, Uncle Jay, one would think one had to crush all one's own desires to fit in with hers. I've had to fight her all my life; and even in the most important thing in my life, I have to fool her because she doesn't understand me at all."
Beth cried in Uncle Jay's arms, for to him she went with her troubles. Beth had been a pretty baby. She was "so like her mother." No one mentioned her father. He was quiet and thoughtful; he knew his little girl needed help. Many times she would run to him after her mother's scolding.
"What's the trouble, Beth?" he would ask.
"O, daddy, she says I am mean, lazy and worthless—and that I don't try to make myself useful, she does not try to see my way at all. She thinks I have no ideas. I just wish I could run to her as I run to you or Uncle Jay, to tell her my plans and dreams. But I can't, for she tells me dreamers are fools."
All during Beth's youth and girlhood, she had run to Uncle Jay. The philosopher with keen insight would soothe her with his wisdom.
"You want to study literature?" he would ask.
"Yes, I love to follow people through their successes and failures. I like so to understand and to be understood." Her big brown eyes would look with trust up at Uncle Jay. And he would become thoughtful and say, "Would not this world be fair if we all tried to understand. Understanding people with the idea in mind of helping them is what we need. Run along now, Beth. I need to sit and think a bit."
As she neared her house, she heard her mother scolding her father. "Why don't you make that lazy girl help? Her fooling with reading and books and magazines is spoiling her. Just what kind of a house-
UNCLE JAY HELPS IN UNDERSTANDING
keeper will she make if she doesn't spend her time at it here?"
"Why not take an interest in her likes and desires? I am sure if you did she would be happy and you would obtain her confidence. She doesn't come to you. She goes to Uncle Jay because he sees in her great possibilities. Why not try to understand Beth?"
"I tell you, John Jensen, that I've been a good wife to you and that I don't like your opposing me in training the children. If you would assert yourself and make her mind me, then everything would be better. I know my way would be the thing to do. I try from morning till night to make her useful here in the house, but you and Uncle Jay just encourage her in foolishness."
"No, mother; if you say to try to understand Beth is foolishness, then I am foolish. But why have all the friction and gloom here when a little thought of what she likes and a bit of encouragement would bring sunshine and gladness."
Mrs. Jensen became angry. She thought like many grown-ups that all wisdom centered in them. "You never did try to cooperate with me. If I try to train the girl right, you do not support me at all. Why don't you make her drop her foolishness and spend her time doing things I want her to do?"
Mr. Jensen became silent. He knew what cooperation meant. It meant having no ideas at all, agreeing with his wife in all things. Understanding, to his wife, meant one thing only, and that was to do as she said and be what she wanted one to be. To her a girl had but one mission and that was to keep a clean house, manage her husband, cook
551
his meals, and keep him from being too full of his own ideas.
"How do you like my work, Uncle Jay?" Beth burst into the room. How buoyant she was! "I spend all the time I can get without mother's finding out what I am doing. I write at night when she thinks I am asleep and I get up early to spend a little time at my story. She found under my pillow one of the books you let me have; she was furious."
"Never you worry, Beth. Your mother is a hard worker and she will come to see your likes and desires. Sometimes we just have to show people before they well see us at all. Perhaps you will have to show mother with some success before she will think you are doing anything worth while. Why not get your story in some magazine and then show it to her? I think she will then see a little of your ambition."
"I will do it. I get so built up when I come to see you. Why do you have such a desire to help people to understand?"
"Would you like to hear a story, Beth? Perhaps my little experience will help in your story. I am living here alone and have been for a long time. Sit right over there where the light will color your curls. You remind me so much of someone who was dear to me. She had brown eyes like yours and black hair like yours, and she was full of life and vigor and ambitions. And—"
"THERE was a young man," began Uncle Jay, "who lived with his parents on a farm. He had the usual run of work to do and the ordinary pastimes in which to engage. But he wanted to do big things. He
552
expected to do big things. He was tall and strong and assertive. He learned to play some games, but too often he wouldn't play if he couldn't have his way about everything.
"He would get angry when the boys would play without him. He would go home and feel that the world was wrong. He didn't see that others had ideas of their own nor did he see that helping others with understanding was necessary if life gives happiness. He milked his cows and plowed his land for his parents. He worked hard because he had to work hard.
"His father was a fighter of the gruff kind. Life to him meant grasping all things possible and working everybody hard. One day when John Reed, for that was the young man's name, desired to go to the city for an outing, he asked his father for permission but was told he could not go. 'But dad,' the boy said, 'all the boys are going and we will have a good time. I haven't been away from the farm for a long time, and I so want to spend one day in town.'
"'There is too much work to do and I don't want you in town. You stay here and get that last piece plowed.' With that, John's father went into the barn and John went to work. All during the day he resented his father's actions. He wanted to do things and see things, but his father permitted no interference with his plans and John had to conform to them.
"There was not any understanding around the farm except the understanding that all were expected to have John's father's ideas and plans.
"All day John felt bitter toward his father. That night he left home and went to the city. He never let
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
his father know where he was. And as for his mother, she was so much drilled in careful obedience to her husband's every wish that she had lost nearly all her individuality. John felt a bit of a pang on leaving her, but he did not see her again.
"John found work in a large machine factory. Knowing farm machinery well, he soon advanced to manager in his department. He was assertive and clever and got results. That pleased his employers, and soon John was making considerable money. Social life was becoming more and more open to him.
"One night at a party of workers and their families from the factory, John was introduced to a young girl of eighteen. She had dark hair and brown eyes. She had talent. She sang and danced, and wrote poetry. John saw much of her, and in time they were married.
"Mary, for that was her name, brought her music and her books and her papers with her into their new home. But John wanted little of these. He expected Mary to listen to him and his plans, and have his supper always on time. He wanted to spend his and her time with his plans and his work.
"When she would say, 'John, let us go to the concert tonight, it will be good,' he would reply, 'Why go to hear that high-brow stuff. Let's figure out how I can advance faster in the works. How do you expect me to do big things if you suggest such ideas as that. Why I am going to be the big man in this work if you will only cooperate with me.'
"Mary was hurt by John's crudeness. The glamor of her romance had covered up his deficiencies. She saw then only the tall, strong, young man and did not see him as he really
UNCLE JAY HELPS IN UNDERSTANDING
was. Mary cried when she went to her room. She so wanted to hear the concert. But she couldn't enjoy it now. John did not understand her music and reading. She was beginning to perceive that he saw only machinery as a means to power and prestige.
"Her books, Mary read by herself. She did not mention them so frequently as before. At one time she spoke of her favorite poem from Tennyson, and was so pained by 'Oh why don't you throw that stuff out of the window and tend to your home?' from John that she did not bring up for conversation anything pertaining to her work again. When we see things we hold most dear and from which we obtain pleasure made light of, then the door to our heart's garden closes against the intruder.
"John drove himself hard to reach his end. He would take no suggestions from his wife. She was but a help in his scheme. He spent most of his time at the factory and made a big success of his department. At home his mind would not be on Mary, or on her long days alone. She to him was becoming his mother over again.
"But she wasn't becoming his mother over again. She was working in her garden of music and verse all alone. She did not permit him to enter the sacred door. She gave him his meals and kept his home for him, but John was unconscious of the gulf widening between them as he lost himself entirely in his work.
"A year passed and a beautiful little girl was born to them. John was at the factory when the call came, but he was too busy to go home. The baby came and Mary
553
thought, 'Surely he will now begin to understand others.' The baby had brown eyes like her mother's and long, black hair. John did not see this when he came home. 'Well Mary, I am in line for another promotion; some husband you have.'
"Promotion! Yes that is all he sees. He didn't even see his own baby when he came in. Oh, if he could only know that understanding others is important to happiness. Mary crawled a little farther into her private garden, and waited—as women down the ages have waited.
"John did take some notice of his baby. He would hold it in his arms, but Mary could see that his mind was on the factory."
Here Uncle Jay stopped, a tear glistening in his eyes, and his head seemed to fall low on his chest. The wind from the window ruffled his graying hair. Beth did not move. She wanted to hear the story further and so she waited. He came back, smiling a little, and said "If only young men were trained to understand others and their ambitions with the idea of helping, then mothers would be happier and the children would confide more in their parents. John was trained to be and to see only John. He could not enter the garden of others; he could not understand."
"The baby grew fast. But Mary and the little girl were alone most of the time. They went to concerts and lectures without him. Busy with his plans and ambitions, he did not have time to share with his wife and her plans. He was too much like other men and women who live entirely within themselves instead of giving themselves and thereby finding happiness through helping others.
"One night just twelve years
554
ago—" Uncle Jay stopped, arose, and walked across the room. He wiped his eyes and spent a little time looking out the window across the large valley filled with shadows. It was nearly evening. As he turned to come back across the room to Beth, she saw a look of deep sadness on his face. She arose to go. She felt he was living too vividly his life over. Waving her to her chair he continued.
"Twelve years ago John came home rather late from his meetings. He was unusually jubilant. He had money, position, and power in the business world, and he smiled as he opened his front door. As was his habit, he went into his room to change his clothes and take a bath. Then he went into the dining room, sitting down in his chair before the fireplace to await dinner. He waited and waited. He became restless and then went to look for Mary. He called but she did not answer. Where could she be? He went into her room. He squared his shoulders and looked at himself in the mirror of her dresser. He glanced down and there on top of the dresser he saw an envelope. He carried the letter to the dining room."
Uncle Jay arose, went to his desk and there found a letter a little faded with age. He handed it to Beth and then went to his favorite window to wait her reading it. The letter read as follows:
Dear John:
"Six years is a long time to wait for you to show some signs of thinking of others besides yourself. We have been so lonely and you have been so occupied with your ambitions that you did not have time to think of us at all. Little Jane and I need understanding, and you seem to need only business. The biggest
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
business of life is to understand those you love and help them to be useful in their different ways. But your wife and child mean so little to you that we are leaving. I want Jane to grow up as Jane, not as a mere cog in some business. Don't try to find us for we will be far away. Why not try to understand others and not spend so much of your time in your own garden?
"Mary."
Beth thought for twelve years he has been helping others to understand and be understood, but he had never told his story to anyone except her. He had resigned his position to spend his time and money in the great task of helping others. He was Uncle Jay to many. Had he found understanding himself? Beth wondered. She handed back the letter.
"Thanks, Uncle Jay. May I use your story in mine? I am sure I will tell it well and you shall see it published. Oh Uncle Jay! I am so happy you told me your story. And you were John! But where is Mary?"
"I don't know. I waited and hunted but couldn't find her. I was angry and stubborn, and my pride was hurt. What would the town say? After a short time the truth seemed to dawn upon me. Then I made my decision."
"And oh! How successful you have been," Beth replied. "You are loved by all. Uncle Jay, I shall be so much happier with Jack now because of you."
After Beth left Uncle Jay sat a long time. He seemed to be reaching out with his thoughts. "I didn't understand," he said to himself, "but now I could and would. But it is too late for me I fear." He settled deeper into his chair and gazed out through his favorite window. This window faced the
UNCLE JAY HELPS IN UNDERSTANDING
555
east and he had spent many hours there in the evenings looking and wondering and waiting. Tonight was peaceful; the colors on the mountains were shot through with bits of light from the dying sun. Rousing himself he went to bed; but twice softly called a name twice ere he dropped off to sleep.
"CAN you really like it, Uncle Jay?" Beth was so happy this morning as they finished her story. "Did I tell it so all will understand? I so hope that as mother reads it she will see as we see. Do you think she will?" Beth was beautiful in her wistfulness. She had put so much of her own aches and desires and soul into the story she had written that Uncle Jay caught the cry of her heart which enhanced the cry of Mary's, as heard by a girl who understood.
"Yes, Beth, you have told it better than I could or did. It will reach hundreds, helping them to understand. It may reach someone who will know."
The door bell rang. They both jumped. Beth flushed. She went to the door and opened it. A young man of twenty came in, caught her in his arms and kissed her. They turned to Uncle Jay, who had stood during this greeting.
"Uncle Jay, here is Jack. We are going to get married today and we are going on our honeymoon tonight. We wanted to see you before we went, for we knew you would understand. Don't tell mother; she wouldn't understand. Daddy will need to know and we wish you would tell him.
"You remember Jack, don't you? He is the boy I have played with in school. I love him so much, Uncle Jay, he has read your story. He is just the nicest boy there is in the whole world. Don't you think he will always understand?"
Beth was so happy and excited that she didn't see on the face of Uncle Jay the smile of gladness; for he knew Jack would appreciate Beth.
THEY walked to the door—two young people just in the commencement of life, loving each other; and an old man, kindly and mellow with life's sadness and sorrows and success. He had listened to many for nearly twelve full years. At the door Beth put both arms around his neck and kissed him and cried. Jack squeezed his hand, and they both went down the steps, happy—yet a bit sad.
TO the young, a month passes quickly; to the old, time drags, especially when they are waiting. One day, at the end of a month, Uncle Jay was interrupted by the ringing of the door bell. On opening the door he saw Beth's mother. In her hand was a magazine, and there were tears in her eyes.
"May I come in, Uncle Jay?" she asked. "I want to talk to you."
"Come right in Mrs. Jensen," and he led her to a chair near the window. She sat down, waiting a minute before she began.
"I didn't know you had such a story. It has opened my eyes. When I was here before, the day Beth got married, I was bitter and my pride was hurt. I didn't understand, but now I am beginning to see. Do you think I can begin to make up for the things lost?
"Mr. Jensen was smiling when I told him I was coming here to talk to you. I never knew him before so well. He knew Beth was gone, and
556
I found several cards from her to him. I see why she didn't send a card to me. I didn't and wouldn't understand. Help me to get back my Beth and her husband. I want them in my heart and understanding."
UNCLE JAY was smiling his old smile. "My flowers grow best when I place them where they can develop with others. If I interfere too much, they do not grow the best. And with children and grown-ups, we should present situations that will permit them to grow and develop their own natures under sympathetic and careful guidance. If I were you, I would get beautiful announcements of Beth's marriage, and have a welcome-home dinner."
"Oh, could I! Do you think she would love me? If she would, I—"
Mrs. Jensen went home. Uncle Jay smiled happily as he snuggled into his chair for his afternoon view from his window.
MRS. JENSEN came early one morning some two weeks after her last visit. She was happy and there was something about her that was new to Uncle Jay. She walked into the house, and said, "Uncle Jay, Beth and Jack will be home tomorrow, and I want you to be with us. Will you come?"
"Yes, I will come to see you and the young people."
Beautiful indeed was his view that afternoon and the next morning from his window. When the world is happy and we help others to understand, then flowers and color and trees and birds mean so much to our souls.
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
Uncle Jay was happy as he walked over to the home of the Jensens. He stepped on the porch, and then someone had him by both hands. "Oh, you old darling. I am so glad you came to my dinner. Mother has told me all, and I have told her all. We are going to understand each other better. Daddy is all smiles, and Jack is happy—all because of you." Beth kissed the cheek of Uncle Jay, taking his arm to enter the house.
THE dinner was delightful. Mother and Daddy, Beth and Jack, told stories and jokes; after dinner they sang songs. As Uncle Jay arose to go home, Beth said, "Uncle Jay, there is a recompense for every act of our lives. You will receive your happiness and rewards. I just know you will."
Slowly he walked home. "Rewards," he thought. Entering his home, he found his seat near the window; the evening picture was peaceful, filled with remembrances. The door bell rang. He went to answer.
"A telegram, Uncle Jay," said the boy. He signed and went back to his chair. He waited a minute, for he never received many telegrams. He opened it. He turned pale, and then the paper slipped from his hands. It read:
John: I have read your story. I am also beginning to understand. Jane is well and wishes to see her daddy. May we come home to you. Then I can help you to help others understand.
"Mary."
Uncle Jay sat thoughtful for a few minutes. He reached for the telephone, and a note of joy was in his voice as he said, "Long distance, please."
Notes from the Field
THE Sacred Grove was the setting for the first general conference of the Eastern States Mission Relief Societies ever held. Saturday morning, July 26, 1930, about five hundred people assembled in the beautiful spot so sacred in Church history, and a greater understanding and appreciation of the wonderful work the Relief Society has done, and is doing, was instilled into the hearts of those who enjoyed the splendid program, composed of short addresses, musical numbers, and a pageant.
Addresses were given by Mrs. Alice D. Moyle, president of the Eastern States Mission Relief Societies; Sister Marian Agren, counselor and secretary of the Mission Relief Societies; Dr. Fred G. Taylor, president of the New York branch, and President James H. Moyle, of the Eastern States Mission. Music was furnished by Sister Margaret Romain Browning, the Pittsburg Relief Society harmonica band, and Elder Merrill B. Tew.
A special feature of the program was a pageant entitled "Eternal Womanhood," portraying the admirable qualities which characterize every true Relief Society woman. It was very beautifully presented by representatives from the thirteen Relief Societies of the Eastern States: Rochester, Syracuse, Hartford, Boston, Buffalo, New York, Newark, Erie, Washington, Philadelphia, Pittsburg, Salem-Lynn and Binghampton.
Of the 392 women enrolled in the Eastern States Mission Relief Societies, 127 were present at the roll call of this memorable meeting, others came after the count was taken. All of the 23 Societies in the Mission were represented with the exception of one. This was a splendid representation, and the effort put forth by the women to come so long a distance was greatly appreciated. Some of the
SCENE FROM THE PAGEANT GIVEN AT THE FIRST GENERAL CONFERENCE OF THE EASTERN STATES MISSION RELIEF SOCIETIES.
558 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
sisters traveled over 400 miles to be in attendance. The secretary writes: "We are happy to have present 9 Relief Society members from the East Central States and Canadian Mission, and several members from Societies in the stakes of Zion. The spirit and inspiration which permeates the Sacred Grove was manifest in rich abundance, and all expressed themselves as thankful for the privilege of being there. It is hoped that the inspiration and spirit received at this time will be carried into every Society of the mission, and will inspire all the members to renewed diligence and faithfulness in performing their mission, which is the uplifting of conditions among mankind; of bringing truth and light to the world; of urging men to serve God in righteousness."
Immediately following the meeting, the Relief Society members were the guests of the Eastern States Relief Society President, Mrs. Alice D. Moyle, assisted by Marian Agren. A delicious box luncheon was served in the Grove.
East Central States Mission:
THE President of the East Central States Mission Relief Societies writes of the progress of the Relief Society in that mission. A visit to North Carolina, Virginia, West Virginia and Tennessee shows the development of the organization and is evidence of the fact that the Relief Societies are doing a wonderful work. The District Presidents say they are the backbone of a very wonderful organization, and wherever the Relief Society is active, the Church is assured of a good branch. Everywhere the sisters are trying to encourage others to bring friends with them and join in the wonderful lesson work, and this is the means of making many friends in the mission field. One organization had a wonderful record, and there are interesting reports from many others. It is very evident that the Lord is blessing these sisters for their diligence and faithfulness in the cause of truth. The Relief Society work teaches one to appreciate more each day what a joy it is to be able to help one's fellowmen. The feeling is expressed by many of the sisters that they wish they could devote more time to the work, for it is all in the cause of truth and is a blessing in every way. The experiences received through this service in the Relief Society work, the feeling of responsibility which comes with this, and the whole spirit of the work, is evidence of its power for good and the light and inspiration it is to the sisters who are fortunate enough to enjoy it.
FROM far off Tahiti comes the following interesting letter from the president of the Relief Society, Sister Marguerite S. Burbidge.
"In Takaroa I had the pleasure of attending the April Conference and a very fine session was held. There were three branches represented, sisters coming from two other islands. They came over 80 miles in a small 10-ton gasoline boat, and in order for them to get back to their homes they were compelled to travel that distance in a little 5-ton sailing boat, but they arrived here in safety. I thought perhaps you would like to see a picture of the Relief Society at Takaroa, so I am sending you a snapshot.
"We who are blessed by living in a country such as the good old U. S. A., do not appreciate the many blessings we receive. These poor people in Tahiti, certainly do work under a handicap. They have no one to in-
NOTES FROM THE FIELD
559
RELIEF SOCIETY OF TAKAROA
struct them in the Relief Society work, except the Elders, and all the wonderful material that is contained in the Magazine is simplified for use here. The sisters have no way of gaining new knowledge, as there are no schools, and no books are published in their language except the Bible, Book of Mormon and Doctrine and Covenants. Of course these are very wonderful books, and the sisters get a great deal from them, in fact they are the only ones that can be used in the lessons, but all the wonderful lessons on home, health, social problems, and literature, that can be given to more fortunately circumstanced people, it is impossible to get over here. Then too, the living conditions of the people in this land make it very difficult. The people own the land around the lagoon, which covers a territory about 12 miles long and 4 miles wide, and every two months they go to different portions of their land to make the copra, and this takes them about one month out of every two away from their city. However, they try to hold their regular meeting inland, but of course all of the sisters cannot get there as their land is sometimes several miles away from the little church house made of cocoanut boughs, and the only means of travel is by sail canoes. I attended one of their meetings while they were inland, which is almost a wilderness, a barren coral reef with cocoanut trees growing all over. The natives made little houses out of cocoanut boughs, and they live just like campers while inland. They had a very fine meeting, but all the sisters were not there. They hold their meetings regularly and try, in their way, to do all they can to make a success of the work.
"I am very anxious to be able to do all I can to help the sisters here in Papeete, by giving them some of the wonderful lessons contained in the Magazine. I am in hopes that we shall be able to put on a pageant for next conference that will create a new interest in Relief Society work."
560
Northwestern States Mission:
THE Relief Societies of the Western Division of the Northwestern States Mission held a convention in Portland on June 11, 1930. This section of the mission felt truly happy in having President Louise Y. Robison in attendance. Three sessions were held with representatives from 17 different Societies, all traveling some distance, two of whom traveled over 300 miles to be in attendance at the convention.
The Executive Officers' Session was held in the beautiful Relief Society room, and reports were given by each president. These reports were based on a questionnaire which had previously been mailed to the presidents. The reports were very excellent, and every Society reported the hope that decided improvement in all branches of the work would be in evidence; that Relief Society ideals, visiting teachers' ac-
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
tivities, and all other things pertaining to the work would increase in efficiency and swell the membership. At the close of this session all Executive Officers, as guests of the Portland Relief Societies, were taken to the banquet hall, where a luncheon was served by special officers of the Portland Societies. These 52 guests were seated around artistically decorated tables, forming a square, with a "Portland Rose" for each guest.
The afternoon and evening sessions were well attended and inspiring talks were given by President Robison and Mission President William R. Sloan and Relief Society Mission President Pearl C. Sloan. Appropriate hymns and musical numbers were also a pleasing part of the conference. In keeping with the saying of Frances Willard: "The mission of the ideal woman is to make the whole world home-like," the Relief
NORTHWESTERN STATES MISSION GROUP
NOTES FROM THE FIELD
Society room and the chapel were beautifully decorated with flowers, and a spirit of love and sociability prevailed.
New Zealand Mission:
MRS. JENNIE A. MAGLEBY, president of the New Zealand Mission writes:
"The successful meetings held at the annual conference, March 14-17 inclusive, at Tahoraite were all most inspirational. Everyone who was in attendance expressed gratitude for the spiritual food, and for the improvement they felt would result to themselves and the organization.
"Several instructive meetings were held. The testimony meeting had a wonderful effect; it inspired all to do their utmost to serve their fellow-men by means of the Relief Society organization. In the general meeting a new slogan was introduced and accepted: 'We cultivate the beautiful.' The program given on Saturday evening was a great credit to the Relief Society sisters; the theme of the evening was Prayer. The songs and speeches were appropriate, and the pageant 'Divine Guidance' created a sacred atmosphere. One expression made by a European and an old member of the Relief Society was typical of the effect, 'The pageant alone was worth my 550 miles travel to attend this conference.' Very few had tearless eyes during the rendering of the beautiful program.
The sewing exhibition was excellent. It consisted of floor mats, pillow cases, quilts, baskets, kits, overalls, shirts, carpet slippers, and children's clothing. Money collected and turned in to the general Relief Society for the
561
sale of these goods amounted to approximately $35.00. Many other articles were sold and the remuneration was placed in the branch treasuries. More hospitable and efficient managers than the Tamaki Relief Society sisters would be difficult to find. During the Hui their homes were open to the Elders from Zion, the sisters, and all the European saints of New Zealand. The people moved into private marquees on the grounds to accommodate their guests. The table service was miraculous. The native sisters served the number of two thousand people delicious meals for five days, three meals a day, except Sunday. The bell was rung, people were served within an hour, and all the waiters and cooks were able to be in their respective meetings on time. No one person seemed burdened with the load, everyone did her part well and in a good spirit. The Tamaki branch has a membership of 22 women, and with these and the aid of their husbands and children, the crowd was handled without a break in the routine. The tables seated 400 at a sitting, necessitating many re-servings. Such systematic service and food so tasty, economical and wholesome could not be surpassed. They did their work and attended meetings too. It was really a marvel. Altogether the spirit and the service rendered by these marvelous native sisters is beyond adequate expression. Such events as these do much to strengthen the faith of the people, for it is a living example, a practical demonstration of faithful, devoted, humble and praiseworthy effort of the Relief Society."
THE RELIEF SOCIETY OF THE CHURCH OF JESUS CHRIST OF LATTER-DAY SAINTS
Motto—Charity Never Faileth
THE GENERAL BOARD
MRS. LOUISE YATES ROBISON - - - - - - - - - - President MRS. AMY BROWN LYMAN - - - - - - - - - - First Counselor MRS. JULIA ALLEMAN CHILD - - - - - - - - - Second Counselor MRS. JULIA A. F. LUND - - - - - - - - - - General Secretary and Treasurer Mrs. Emma A. Empey Miss Sarah M. McLelland Mrs. Vesta P. Crawford Mrs. Ida P. Beal Mrs. Ethel Reynolds Smith Mrs. Kate M. Barker Mrs. Annie Wells Cannon Mrs. Rogannah C. Irvine Mrs. Marcia K. Howells Mrs. Jennie B. Knight Miss Alice Louise Reynolds Mrs. Hazel H. Greenwood Mrs. Lalene H. Hart Mrs. Nettie D. Bradford Mrs. Emeline Y. Nebeker Mrs. Lotta Paul Baxter Mrs. Elise B. Alder Mrs. Mary Connelly Kimball Mrs. Cora L. Bennion Mrs. Inez K. Allen Mrs. Lizzie Thomas Edwards, Music Director
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
Editor - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - Mary Connelly Kimball Manager - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - Louise Y. Robison Assistant Manager - - - - - - - - - - - Amy Brown Lyman
Room 20, Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah
Magazine entered as second-class matter at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah
VOL. XVII OCTOBER, 1930 No. 10
EDITORIAL
Conservation of Leadership
"And those behind cried—'Forward!' "And those before cried—'Back!'" — Macaulay.
MANY people chafe because things do not move faster. They criticize the leadership questioning why this isn't done or why that. No general can lead his army farther or faster than they will follow. It would spell disaster to order a charge if the rank and file would not obey. Leadership requires foresight, insight, enthusiasm, but above all does it require judgment. The leader must understand his people, what they can do, what they will do, how strong they are, whether they are made of material that will do the seemingly impossible, whether they are so tempered that practically nothing is impossible to them. Knowing these things he decides how far they can go, what they will attempt, what they can accomplish. He must have faith in them—but an understanding—not a blind faith.
And so there comes with positions of trust and responsibility conservatism. Many in the rear murmur and chafe and cry "Forward." They forget that it takes time to scale the Alps. Moses, no doubt, was criticized. Why lead a people for forty years in the Wilderness when the Promised Land was so near? He knew they needed to be prepared for entrance.
It would be well for the impatient ones to ponder well these words of G. K. Chesterton, "Men are progressive because they are a little behind the times.
EDITORIAL
They are reactionary because they are a little in advance of the times. It sounds like a paradox, but it is really a very practical and even inevitable state of things, given certain conditions. Those behind will still cry, 'Forward!' and only those far in front will cry, 'Back!' when the vanguard of the army has come
563
suddenly to the edge of a precipice."
One must be very much more careful if a cause rests upon his shoulders, if he is responsible for a nation's welfare, if a people look to him for leadership than is necessary if he stands alone—then and only then can he be a free lance.
To Our Relief Society Members
OUR season's work is now well under way. Let every officer and member resolve to make it the best ever enjoyed. May the visiting teachers carry more forcefully worthwhile messages. May the work and business sessions be more successful in training the hands of our women and in the amount of work accomplished. May the class work exceed all previous years in the number who study and participate in the class discussions. May the ministrations to the needy be more helpful because they are based on knowledge of how better to serve.
"Interchange, not the mere reception of ideas, is the vitalizing process."
We cannot too strongly urge that a big effort be put forth to get our members to read the lessons provided and do as much outside research on the subjects as time and opportunity permit. Let our Relief Society class leaders be not satisfied to have fine lectures delivered week after week, but let them put forth every effort to get all or as many as possible of those present to participate during the lesson period. Each one present should give as well as take. The interaction of mind on mind brings ideas and attitudes that are most desirable.
"The great individual is the interesting individual. He listens. He unites his mind with other minds. And out of that union of his mind with many minds come a breadth and power of insight not otherwise achieved."
In adult education, discussion is increasing, the lecture method decreasing. Dr. Alexander Meiklejohn is beginning an experiment in the University of Wisconsin which eliminates the lecture system and inaugurates a technique of group mental life. At Swarthmore College, honor students gather in weekly conferences with all their instructors sitting together as a group and jointly discuss their subjects.
Overstreet says, "The passively heard lectures are losing ground as a method of adult education or of any education. Those people out there in the seats must do more than feed upon their host; they themselves must generate something. There is a growing movement to supplement the lecture with vigorous discussion, in some case even to get rid of lecturing altogether and substitute a process of group inquiry and group solution."
Let us be up to date and use the best methods in our class work.
564 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
To Our Class Leaders
EACH year some teachers read over the first lesson in a course and decide that it is beyond their capacity. They go around saying "I can't do it." The feeling of their inability to handle the subject grows as they continually iterate to themselves and to others "I can't do it." How much more helpful it would be to say, "I can and I will." If they would reread the lesson and the references again and again and ponder well over the subject matter light would illumine the dark places. Then, too, they would find that subsequent lessons in the course would get easier to present. Ways of developing the subject would come to them and the joy of mastery would be theirs.
Ever Learning
"Growth is the supreme law of mental life. Intellectual stagnation is the beginning of the end, even though that end be long delayed. Already dissolution has begun, whether its processes be swift or slow."
THERE was a time when learning was thought to be the prerogative of youth, now by scientific investigation it is shown that the adult is quite as capable of learning as is the child—indeed many learn quicker and more effectively. Professor Thorndike of Teachers College, New York, proved by experiments that in learning new muscular coordinations adults learned in a few score of hours what children required two years to master.
Thinkers now see clearly that learning, growing, developing, is a continuous process. To the Latter-day Saints the vision is given that man's obligation is to learn here and now, in the hereafter and through all eternity.
Wonderful opportunities are offered to all Church members and to any others who will avail themselves of the privilege to study, learn, discuss. The different Auxiliaries offer courses of studies that may well be compared with similar courses given by colleges and universities. All are urged to secure the lessons, peruse them, do the reading suggested, and then come to the associations and discuss what has been read and thought through.
Mortal Faith
By Zentha Gartf
Our dear friends leave us, one by one, And leave us in the darkness, as the sinking of the sun. The dear ones pass, we mourn each one, Never a death but we would have undone.
And still we know that when our rest we've won, We will stand together to watch the rising of the sun And He will count us, one by one.
Guide Lessons for December
LESSON 1
Theology and Testimony (First week in December)
Book of Mormon: Assignment
This lesson covers the Book of Alma from chapters fifty-three to the end, including chapter fifty-three. In the latest edition of the Book of Mormon it covers twenty-eight pages. Since the greater part of the history recorded here either relates directly to the activities of two thousand young Ammonite soldiers or grows out of those activities, we have chosen to center the lesson in this remarkable group of boys.
The Story
The story is as follows, briefly told: The people of Ammon, as they were called, chafed under the fact that they had covenanted never to take up arms against their fellows. Yet their adopted country was in peril from the Lamanites. If it had not been for the persuasions of the Nephite leaders, they would have broken that covenant and joined the army. But since that covenant was entered into, a new generation of men had grown up. The way out was therefore clear. These young men, of whom there were two thousand.*
*Through a mistake the first lesson for this year was given as beginning with chapter 37 of Alma. It should have been chapter 29. This matter should be read, so as to keep the thread of the history.
HELAMAN'S "STRIPLING SOLDIERS"
could fight for their country. And so they did, under the leadership of the chief high priest—Helaman. This was while the war was at its height—the year twenty-six of the Reign of the Judges. Later, sixty others joined the force. Five years, all told, these youths were in the thick of the fight in one section of the country. They were brave to the point of daring; they not only never flinched nor held back in an emergency, but were always eager to throw themselves into line; sometimes their commander put it up to them whether or not they should fight, but invariably their answer was an eager yes. And yet, not one of the two thousand sixty met death, although every one of them was wounded many times. This is remarkable. It was thought so by Helaman and by the whole force in that part of the country. Over and over again Helaman, in his letter to Moroni, comments upon the strangeness of the fact. Not only so. But Helaman, after inquiring of the boys themselves, attributed it to their faith in the power of God. And, when he inquired into the source of this implicit faith, he found it in the wonderful mothers of these wonderful boys. "Our mothers taught us that, if we did not doubt, God would deliver us." It is an extraordinary application of faith.
566 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
Notes
A Background of War: Our own World War lasted four years. We thought that a long time, we who lived through it. And it was. But what shall we say of a war that continued for almost thirteen years? That is how long this war lasted between the Nephites and the Lamanites, if we count from the time of the defection of Amalickiah the Traitor. The war spirit was everywhere. Evidently, however, there was no "draft law" among the Nephites, either at this time or at any time in their history. Whoever wanted to join the army, did so; and whoever wanted to stay at home, did that, too. And there were a great many "slackers" during these thirteen years. Also, the "king-men" were much in evidence at one time. For these not only still chafed under their defeat, but formed an alliance with the enemy, drove the chief judge from his office, and set up a king of their own. So that during at least part of the time that this war continued, these who were fighting to preserve their national existence, had to contend also against traitors in their own ranks. Since the beginning of the nation there had been no times quite so perilous.
The Spirit of the War: Men who have been in war in our own age—the Civil war, the Mexican war, the Spanish war, the World war—have said that, once they got the spirit of battle, it was not a difficult thing at all for them to choose their man on the opposite side and to pick him off as if he were a bird or an elk, and that the more they did of this the easier it was to do it. The spirit of war is blood. It brutalizes not only those who engage in the actual fighting, but it coarsens immeasurably those who are at home raising the food and supplying the equipment. That is the general rule. But here, in this war, there is a quite different spirit. We have already mentioned this fact, but it will bear amplification now, since it is so marked in the details of this lesson. The Nephites, not only the commanders but the soldiers as well, have a horror of taking human life. This feeling they have got out of their religion. Only an extreme situation can force them to kill their enemies. Teancum, that fine patriot so clearly outlined in such few lines, steals over the enemy walls at night and runs his sword through the sleeping Amalickiah, but it is only because by killing that arch-traitor, he can prevent a greater shedding of © blood. That section of the army where Helaman is, adopts the strategem in place of face to face fighting, chiefly because of this extreme reluctance to take human life. Moroni, time and again, refuses to take advantage of any situation to kill needlessly, or even to kill where it is obviously to his advantage. Even the two thousand young Ammonites say to Helaman, when he asks them if they will turn and fighter Antipus, ""We would not slay our brethren if they would let us alone." That is the thing in a nutshell. On the part of the Nephites the whole war is a war of defense. 3. Moroni the Soldier: The outstanding character in this war, of course, and one of the outstanding characters in the entire Book of Mormon, is Moroni, the commander in chief of the army. He is the embodiment of the finest that is to be found in man. — GUIDE LESSONS FOR DECEMBER He is a man of unbounded resource. It is probably he who first used armor and breastplates and shields among the Nephites. We gather this from the astonishment of the Lamanites who came against his men in that first battle. Also, it would seem, he was the first to throw up earth-works and top them with wooden breast-works as a means of protecting cities in times of war. At. Any rate, whenever an emergency arose, Moroni was always equal to the situation. He was never one to just wonder what to do; he thought the situation through, and acted. He was a patriot, if ever there was one. He loved liberty more than he did life. As soon as human freedom was threatened, he arose in its defense. That plea which he made at the beginning of the war stands unrivaled either in the Book of Mormon or elsewhere, for impassioned loyalty to a political ideal. And then, see how he writes to the chief. Judge, when it appears that something is wrong at home, while the men who are sacrificing to save their country are starving. "Behold, I will leave the blessings of God upon the army, and I will come unto you and stir up insurrections even until those who have desires to usurp power and authority shall become extinct." He has unusual common sense. "Do you suppose," he writes to Pahoran, "that the Lord will deliver us, while we sit upon our thrones and do not make use of the means which he has provided for us?" No man had deeper faith in the power of God than had Moroni. But he believed also that "God helps those who help themselves." And then, look at the broad sympathy and 567 tolerance he has for the very men he is fighting—the Lamanites. In this same remarkable letter he writes, "Can you suppose that the Lord will spare you who are undermining our liberties and at the same time come out in judgment against the Lamanites, when, as a matter of fact, it is the tradition of their fathers that has caused their hatred against us?" He has the finest kind of restraint. Ambition is one of the strongest feelings in man. Man loves power, and usually he lets nothing stand in his way to it. At this time Moroni is easily the most powerful figure in the nation. The destinies of his people are in his hands. He is the commander of the army. He is conducting the greatest war of history, so far as the Nephites are concerned. And he is under no illusion as to his importance and his power. That is evident from the words and tenor of his letter to Pahoran. Yet he does not misuse his power. He could be the ruler of his nation, but he retires to private life so that he may die in peace. Washington is not more magnificent in this respect than Moroni. And that we are dealing with a primitive people does not lessen his grandeur. 4. Goodness against a_ Background of Evil: These things we have noted in the preceding paragraphs—the great reluctance of the Nephites to kill, the deeply religious nature of the commanding officers, the fine self-restraint of Moroni— are quite unique in the history of mankind. In the slime of war and degeneration there grows a fineness. A goodness, a spirit-control that is nothing short of beautiful. Imagine a modern general closing his report to his superior with the words which Helaman uses to Moroni: 568 "And now, my beloved brother, Moroni, may the Lord our God, who has redeemed us and made us free, keep you continually in his presence." Of course, we cannot imagine the thing in ancient times at all, outside of the Book of Mormon. It is this good in the midst of evil 'that Mormon, the abridger of the Nephite record, has in mind in his book, as he describes the war. Otherwise the details of the war would not have been set down at all. Mormon wishes to tell how the spirit of Christ dominated the Nephite life even in war. It is a great record. 5. Emigration: At the close of the war, there was a great deal of shipbuilding going on. Hagoth is mentioned in this connection, and is represented as being "an exceedingly curious man." The "land northward" was reached by way of the sea. But at least two of the ships, loaded with men, women and children, went out to sea and "were never heard of more." It was supposed by the historians that their passengers were "drowned in the depths of the sea." A great deal of curiosity has been expressed by the Latter-day Saints over this man Hagoth and these ships that never returned, especially since the conversion of so many Sandwich islanders to the faith. Many of our missionaries there have believed these natives to have been descendants of the people who left the mainland of America and, instead of being drowned, reached one of the islands and decided to stay there, or, finding themselves there, were unable to return. And RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE many things would go to show that this belief is founded in fact. Dr. Louis R. Sullivan, anthropologist of the Bishop's Museum at Honolulu, says that, although the matter of the origin of the Polynesian peoples has not been positively decided, he himself is convinced that they came originally from the same race as the American Indians. Questions 1. How do you suppose the mothers of the two thousand and sixty young Ammonite soldiers managed to implant such faith in God and his power in their hearts? Try to imagine the process. Is that sort of thing done today? 2. How do you account for the fact that these Ammonite mothers —and the Ammonites in general, as a matter of fact—exhibited more faith than the Nephite mothers, or the Nephites as a whole? 3. Justify the idea in the Nephite leaders that it was not a wise thing for the Ammonite men to break their oath and join the army. 4, Explain the war spirit among us during the World War. Show the particulars in which it was not wholesome in its effects, both during and after the armistice. How, then, would you account for the spirit shown during the Nephite war? References Reynolds—Dictionary 'of the Book of Mormon, under Helaman, Moroni, Teancum. Evans—Message and Characters of the Book of Mormon, Chapters 22, Zane, GUIDE LESSONS FOR DECEMBER 569 LESSON 2 Work and Business (2nd Week in December) The Teacher's Topics for this season deal with material vital to our women, viz., the opportunities offered by the Relief Society, the obligations membership entails, and our responsibility to sustain the law and to. Sustain Church organizations. Our obligations to friends, family, and to ourselves will conclude this year's series of topics. We trust our teachers will enthuse those whom they visit with a desire to actively participate in Relief Society work, to sustain the law, to assist in building up Church organizations, and to fulfill their obligations to their friends, their family, and to themselves. TEACHERS' Topic FOR DECEMBER (This topic is to be given at the special teachers' meeting the first week in December. ) SPIRITUAL GROWTH IN THE RELIEF SOCIETY Spiritual opportunities for women of our organization are many and varied. Covering a period of many years we have studied lessons in theology which have been plain, convincing, and inspirational. 'If we have lived up to our privileges we have been constant readers of the Scriptures, developing a deeper spiritual appreciation of, life. The privilege of working in temples is a development which few women have experienced in the history of the world. Our testimony meetings each month where women may express gratitude for the blessings of the restored gospel, should be faith promoting and increase spirituality in our lives. Having husbands and sons holding and magnifying the priesthood and living according to its teachings will elevate and refine our lives, making possible the constant influence of the Spirit of God in our homes. The members of our great organization conduct their own meetings, giving an opportunity to thousands of women to learn the art of public prayer and benefit by its wholesome effect. The following figures taken from the 1929 Annual Report gives an idea of the number participating in verbal prayer. No. Of meetings held in wards 54,955. No. Of meetings Stake and ward officers (Union).. 1,096. No. Of meetings Stake officers 2,085. No. Of meetings Ward Conferences 1,192. 118,656. 570 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE LESSON 3 Literature (3rd Week in December) THE Short Story: Studying the Bible as literature, just as we would study a group of English poets, is a comparatively new thing. Too many people have thought of the Bible as God's word and let it go at that. Ever since the Bible was compiled, it has been recognized as one of the great literary works of the world, but it has not always been taught as such. Individuals have always been discovering that the Bible gave them as much pleasure as reading a good story or poem did. Then, instead of remembering the great book as something heard in childhood and kept on a shelf to be read "sometime" for spiritual good, they read it because they really enjoyed it. But the Bible cannot and should not be detached from its spiritual message. The fact of its being God's revealed word makes it the more satisfying to read. Yet in this lesson on "Biblical Literature” the stories should be considered first as stories given to us by the people of Canaan The six short stories are all from the ancient Hebraic people. Some of the stories have been taken from the Bible, one from the Apocrypha, and the others from the Talmud. It is impossible to trace the history of Jewish short stories up to and including modern times. The reason is not because the Jews have had few writers, for they have always numbered some of the world's greatest authors among them, but because their racial life has been too long confused. A few writers have used Hebrew, but most of them have BIBLICAL LITERATURE written in their adopted language. Today, the Jewish writers who wish to use their own tongue, employ modern Yiddish,. The Book of Ruth is one of the great Hebrew stories. Characteristic of Hebrew, it is written in overlapping prose and verse. It is often classified as an epi-idyl, for it treats of love and domestic life and is part of the historical panorama. There is no trace of war found in it; its disasters are those that come from grief, exile, and poverty; and its dramatic pictures are those of country festivities, folk ways, and devotion that go on undisturbed through the years. - - - In the story of Ruth, Naomi is the strong character, one who achieved no great deed to make her name immortal, but who was beloved and remembered because of her magnetic personality and the steadfastness with which she lived her beliefs. Even her name meant "The Pleasant One." Of her life before her marriage little is known, perhaps because it was so peaceful. Her troubled days came after her wedding. Famine was one of the first cruel visitors. Elimelech's land would not yield them a living, so in the manner of families of all time, they migrated to a more fruitful country. Moab was the land chosen. Here the young couple and their two small sons began their exile. The climate was different, the customs strange, and worst of all the Moabites worshipped alien gods. Now, the Jews, in spite of their long career of wandering, have ever been a home GUIDE LESSONS FOR DECEMBER people, and the family must have lived with stifled desires for the home. Country. Time passed; Elimelech died; and Naomi was left to find wives for her sons. This was of utmost importance—the Jews believed in the immortality that comes from posterity. Ten years after both sons were married, they were taken by death, and there were no children to carry on the line. With no strong link to bind her, Naomi decided to return to Judah. She did not go alone as she had planned, for both Ruth and Orpha desired to go with her. Naomi, who | felt that she lived under a dark spell, discouraged the two women, but so great was Ruth's love for her mother-in-law that she cast aside all bonds of home and became herself an exile. Naomi was still remembered and loved in her native land, but the family property had long passed to other hands. She had no other choice than to live in obscure poverty. From here on, the idyl pictures the wheat and barley harvest of the countryside; the progress of the reapers; the girls gleaning behind; the common meal taken in the heat of the day; and the master coming to greet his workers. Then Ruth appears to glean. The account of her love for Naomi has already made her a little talked of, and the story relates with a strange charm how the little attentions were paid to Ruth. Small details are supplied. There is the picture of Ruth eating what she thinks is sufficient and then saving a portion to take to Naomi, the sight of Ruth going home at night, not too weary to tell that she was well treated by the master, himself. Naomi recognizes that the master is Boaz, a kin of hers. Through him Ruth's dark load may be lightened. The story tells us much of Boaz. He is a man of refinement and courtesy, along with his more material properties, and fit in every way for the courageous Ruth. In the end, Naomi sees her family line restored. The black cloud that has followed her is dispersed. When her first grandchild is born, the women of the city sing to her of how his name will become famous in Israel. The last words make the transition in the main historical theme by telling that young Obed was the father of Jesse, who was in turn sire to King David. The Bible houses many other epics, beautiful but lacking in the idyllic charm of Ruth. Among them is the story of Joseph, of Esther, of Balaam, of David, of Solomon. And so on interminably. From the New Testament the text selects two stories, "The Prodigal Son" and the "Raising of Lazarus." The first is one of Jesus' parables. In them he taught his message that God was One of love, that he was no longer an "eye for an eye" god of the Old Testament. This idea of God's being filled with love was new to the ancient world. \No religion had presented him in that light, and Jesus chose the beautifully effective way of the parables to make his message concrete. A parable, as every one knows, is a little story with a religious idea or moral truth. It originally meant putting one thing beside another, and it has always carried the fascination that comes from detecting a real likeness between things which people supposed were utterly unlike. "The Prodigal Son" is a small masterpiece of vivid portraitures, startling incidents, pathos, and dramatic power. Its theme has been used in hundreds of different ways. Today, writers could expand it into 572 a long short-story, a book, a drama, a motion picture, an epic poem, or a grand opera, but its original beauty would still be untouched. According to the rule of all good stories, not a word is wasted. The main theme is struck in the first sentence, and no further description is needed to tell us the character of the younger son. "He took his journey into a far country, and there wasted his substance with riotous living." One sentence, but think of the vivid pictures a good play director could make from it. There is no need to pause on the misery of the young debauchee. "And he would fain have filled his belly with husks that the swine did eat; and no man gave unto him," tells more than pages of descriptive suffering and longing. There is a deep suggestion in the words, "and when he came to himself." We can only guess the depths to which he had sunk and of the passions that had torn him before he felt he could humble himself before the family he had quitted in such defiant sureness. After this the story quickens. It moves with the eager tempo of the returning prodigal. The character of the father is clear now, and there is a third person, the elder brother who has spent his time in hard work, sober living, and carrying out his father's wishes. What of him when he saw his father bestow unearned gifts on the recreant? We understand his emotions, too. Most of the story tellers of the world would deprive themselves of some much-loved thing if they could end a story with such consummate art as this one. Two or three lines and it is over. The ending is definite, but there are a great many things over which the reader may puzzle. The "Raising of Lazarus" is a
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
story almost as beautiful in art, but it will never have the same appeal as the "Prodigal Son." Death touches us all, but we have long schooled ourselves to its finality. It is the emotions of the sinner, the loving parent, the baffled good son that touch us most. The Talmud, from which the last two stories are taken, is full of moral tales. These two are both brief enough to be read in class, and the last one, "The Jewish Mother," is fit to take its place beside the famous mother stories of the world.
References The Bible; Modern Reader's Bible; Moulton's Bible Stories; Old Testament Stories, The Literary Study of the Bible; Purinton's Literature of the Old Testament; The Book of Tobit is also another beautiful story from the Apocrypha.
Questions Why do not the Jews have a national literature of modern times? What is an epic? An idyl? Justify the Book of Ruth's being called an epic-idyl. Locate the lands of Moab and Judah. What racial characteristics are exhibited in the story of Ruth? Why did Naomi choose Moabite wives for her sons? What differences can you see between the characters of Ruth and Orpha? Why is Naomi a great personality? Why did Naomi wish Ruth to marry Boaz? Could he have refused? In what ways did he show himself to be very generous? What are the Apocrypha and the Talmud? What racial characteristics and
GUIDE LESSONS FOR DECEMBER
573
customs do you find in the story of Susanna? In what other stories have you heard of Daniel's fearlessness? What law of Moses is referred to in this story? What comparison does Jesus use in his parable of the Prodigal Son? Comment on the statement that the parables have greatly influenced mankind to accept the teachings of Jesus. To which of these six stories can you best apply the tests of the short story? Name ways in which this Biblical literature has been used. Name some modern Jewish writers.
LESSON 4
Social Service (4th Week in December)
PERSONALITY STUDY: THE PSYCHOLOGY OF CONVERSATION, PUBLIC SPEAKING AND WRITING
Based on Overstreet's Influencing Human Behavior, pages 71-109
The successful use of one's mother tongue is an art or skill which is largely the result of experience and training. The laws of habit formation apply, in learning to speak or write effectively, just as certainly as they apply in other human achievements. Of course it must be admitted that there is no easy formula for the mass production of truly great speakers or writers. But all of us can greatly improve in our methods of influencing the behavior of our associates through the means of language. It is the purpose of this lesson to consider certain very important psychological aspects of the problem.
Assuming that we are in real earnest in trying to profit by this series of lessons we will then not be discouraged by having our attention called at once to a great fundamental task that presents a real barrier to impatient souls who must get immediate results in order to be assured that progress is being made. This is the job of improving and enriching our own lives—the enhancement of our personalities. This may be "hard doctrine," but who can gainsay the author of our text when he says, "* * * It is the personality back of the writing which gives the writing such power or lack of power as it possesses." Almost in this same vein Henry Suzzallo says, "There can be no cultivation of the power to use English without an adequate development of enriched thought to be expressed. * * * In the last analysis, good English is a matter of self-cultivation."
Having recognized the fact, that back of worthwhile communications are always worthwhile personalities we have no doubt renewed our determination to patiently work for self-unfoldment and increased service to humanity. What this implies is well outlined in the Sunday School, "Gospel Doctrine" leaflet for September 7, 1930.
Now what other important fundamental is often overlooked by
574 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
would-be conversationalists, public speakers, and writers? It is the one thing most stressed by Overstreet in the two chapters of our lesson for this month. It is that the successful speaker or writer must understand and appreciate the probable responses of his listener or reader. To remind ourselves that this is coming to be recognized more and more let us consider two or three brief quotations. Here is the first paragraph from a helpful little book, "The Art of Writing English" by Brown and Barnes: "This book is the outgrowth of two convictions. The first of these is that greater emphasis ought to be placed upon the fact that writing is not merely self-expression, but communication; in other words, that composition must be regarded chiefly as 'a double-ended process' in which the writer is successful only when he has produced the desired effect upon his audience. The second is that this communication through writing is an art, and must be studied very much as other arts are studied."
This is emphasized again in an interesting and challenging short article by William E. Barton, which appeared in The Outlook for November 11, 1914. He shows that Theophilus (see Luke 1:1-4) influenced greatly both the style and content of Luke's version of the Gospel, and among other things he goes on to say, "A letter is shaped quite as much by the receiver as the sender. A sermon is preached partly by the preacher and partly by the congregation. * * * "It is so with all the great works of art. The painter sees before him a bit of nature which he wishes to interpret through his own temperament. Yes, but interpret to whom? Not till you know that can you fully understand the picture. A poet hears a song in the depths of his soul, and he sings it, and maybe sells it. Yes, but for whom? We are not wholly yet a race of potboilers. To somebody, for somebody, the world does all its fine things in art and ethics."
Consider also how this same fundamental point is implied in all of the following suggestions for estimating the character of a given audience as a basis for successful public speaking: "Is this audience composed of young, or old people, or those of mixed ages? Are the members of the group highly educated or poorly educated when considered as a whole? What social class and which sex is chiefly represented? What purpose and attitude dominates the group; what mental set is predominant on this occasion? Are these auditors of the type that will passively accept whatever is presented, or can they be led to participate actively in the presentation and take an enthusiastic interest in it? May the group be characterized as negative, contrary, or even antagonistic; or may it be more fittingly considered as friendly and anticipatory?" (See West and Skinner—page 501).
Supplementary References
Driggs—The Art of Teaching—pp. 88-104, Palmer—Self-Cultivation in English—pp. 1-41. West and Skinner—Psychology for Religious and Social Workers—pp. 499-515. See also accessible high school texts in Rhetoric and Composition and Public Speaking.
Problems for Discussion
The writer once read of a solitary prisoner confined in a cell of a
GUIDE LESSONS FOR DECEMBER
Siberian dungeon. He had an unquenchable desire to communicate with someone. After many attempts he finally got a response from an adjacent cell by means of taps on the thick prison wall. Later simple words and phrases were spelled to each other by this means by the two lonely prisoners. Still later the prisoners invented a checker-board-square arrangement for the taps on the wall which greatly lessened the required number of taps and thus facilitated communication. These prisoners who had previously never seen or heard of each other in this way became well acquainted and fast friends. Give reasons for or against considering this story far-fetched. Relate some striking or convincing incident to show how basic in our lives is the desire to communicate.
Comment on this quotation from Palmer: "So mutually dependent are we that on our swift and full communication with one another is staked the success of almost every scheme we form. * * * The persuasive and explanatory tongue is, therefore, one of the chief levers of life."
(a) Why is the enhancement of personality related vitally to problems of the effective use of language? (b) Just what does Overstreet mean when he says again and again that effective speaking and writing are "essentially psychological" enterprises?
Someone has said that an important requisite of a good conversationalist is to be a good listener. Consider this carefully also making observations. Report your conclusions in the form of several considerations in support of this statement.
(a) Suggest a plan for developing a pleasing well-modulated speaking voice. (b) Give several convincing illustrations to show how we tend to become more lip-lazy and tongue-lazy than we should be.
Suggest a good plan for increasing our vocabularies. Spend at least five minutes today with a good dictionary and report some of the things you learned; e.g. The correct way to pronounce: "interesting," "experiment," "genealogy," "data," "often," etc., and the distinction in meaning between such related expressions as "irony" and "sarcasm" or "to teach" and "to train." It is well for us to avoid the use of cheap unauthoritative dictionaries if better ones are accessible.
A man experienced in the writing game once pleaded with the members of a college audience to individually resolve to express in careful and beautiful English some worthy thought or observation each day. This daily written effort should represent one's very best even though the waste basket were half filled with discarded sheets before one were reasonably successful. To what extent do you think this would be good medicine for the members of our group? Why not start a sort of diary—not a monotonous commonplace narrative but a collection of brief expressions of our better selves, characterized "not only by distinction of idea but distinction of phrasing?" Some opportunities along this line might also be furnished by our efforts at letter-writing.
To what extent should we strive for spontaneous efficiency in our letter-writing—avoiding the accumulation of discarded sheets in the waste basket? Palmer says, "Accuracy and dash, the combination of the two, must be our difficult aim; and we must not rest satisfied so long as either dwells with us alone."
(a) Summarize the most practical suggestions you obtained from
576 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
studying the two chapters from Overstreet. (b) Discuss the psychological standards proposed in the text for judging the success of our speaking and writing efforts.
Comment on this from Palmer: "He and he alone, is a well-educated person who uses his language with power and beauty. The supreme and ultimate product of civilization it has been well said, is two or three persons, talking together in a room."
(a) To what extent do you believe that worthy literary effort among Latter-day Saints is suffering from (1) too much favorable comment in the press when locally
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
produced books are reviewed? (2) too severe and too frequent negative criticism? (Do our magazines and newspapers ever present reviews of a negative character?) (b) To what extent do you believe that public speakers are hampered seriously by insincere though not consciously unfriendly flattering comments made to them by listeners or by the lack of opportunity to get honest responses from friends and others who may have been present?
Explain what you think Cicero meant when he said, "He is the eloquent man who can treat subjects of an humble nature with delicacy, lofty things impressively, and moderate things temperately."
Lone Rock To Alice Reynolds
By Claire Stewart Boyer
They salute you, the mightiest waves of the sea As they gallantly dash towards the shore, And the waves that have failed their destiny, Returning, beg solace once more; The omnipotent ocean is washing you clean, It is helping to shape your soul, And the hearts of the sea-faring folk are turned To the Lone Rock that heralds the goal.
You are touched by His first precious morning light You are kissed by His evening star, You combine all the faith of the things to be With the joy of the things that are; And no matter what tempests the Master sends, And no matter what mists arise, You will loom, Lone Rock as a signal of hope To our wind-weary, sea-faring eyes.
I am only a speck in the crowd afloat, But sometimes as the night draws on, I find myself thinking of you, Lone Rock, And I muse till the break of dawn; My comrades, somehow, seem depending on me, And I know they'd rejoice if I spoke, So I send you the trust of a thousand hearts And the love of the sea-faring folk.
Woman's Legal Personality—A Century of Progress
By Priscilla L. Evans
DURING Mother Brown's one hundred years her legal status changed from one of absolute submergence to one of equality and independence. Today the legal personality of American women is very nearly complete. In the last hundred years, women have risen out of ignorance, out of bondage, out of the position of being a thing in the possession of another into the position of being a legal person with completed rights and obligations. It has been often said that the way women are treated at any given period is a just measure of the civilization that prevails among the people, and if this be true, our American civilization ranks very high, for with less than two hundred years of national life, we lead the world in our efforts for the elevation of women. And Utah stands in the forefront of the states of the Union in these efforts.
The disparity in the rights and privileges of men and women grew up, in the beginning, out of property interests. "Property in its broader sense is not the physical thing which may be the subject of ownership, but is the right of dominion, possession, and power of
"Grandmother Brown's Hundred Years," by H. C. Brown.
disposition which may be acquired over it." Ownership of property involves the obligation to use. Nobody ever received or acquired anything that carried with it a benefit that did not also carry with it an obligation. Ownership of land is of much later origin than ownership of personal property. Among the clans of the early tribes of man, ownership, privately, of land was not known. There are savages at present in existence who have no conception of landed property, and who have barely arrived at a notion of individual ownership of the objects which they personally appropriate. Certain Australians possess the objects attached to their persons, such as arms, ornaments inserted in their ears, lips and noses; or skins of beasts for clothing; human fat, wherewith to cure their rheumatism; stones laid up in baskets, woven of bark, fastened to the body of the owner. Personally appropriated by them, these objects are not taken away from them at their death, but are burned or buried with their corpses.
The name of the individual was one of the first things recognized as "property." The savage never reveals his name to a stranger; it is a precious thing of which he will make a present to a friend; so completely is his name identified with his person that after
580
his death his tribe ceases to pronounce it. As the use of a thing constitutes the sole condition of its ownership, landed property, on its first establishment among primitive peoples, was allotted to the women. The man was charged with the defense and the procuring of food, while on the woman devolved the culinary preparation of the food, the fabrication of the clothes and household utensils, and the management of the house once it had sprung into existence. "A man," said an ancient philosopher, "hunts, fishes, fights and sits down," meaning that all besides is the business of the woman.
The introduction of agriculture enhanced the separation of the sexes—the man continued to be the warrior and the hunter; he resigned to his wife the labour of the fields, consenting on occasion to assist at harvest time. Among pastoral peoples, he reserved to himself the care of the flocks and herds, which came to be looked upon as a nobler pursuit than agriculture. It is, in truth, the less arduous of the two. In all societies in which the matriarchal form of the family has maintained itself, we find landed property held by the women; such was the case among the Egyptians, the Nairs, and the Basques of the Pyrenees. In the time of Aristotle, two-thirds of the territory of Sparta belonged to the women.
It is interesting to note, in this connection, that when the possession of landed property came to be an advantage instead of a burden, man, the physically stronger, wrested its possession from the women. When the possession of land meant something more than the responsibility and burden of cultivating it—when it meant emancipation—man exercised
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
his physical force and took it back, wholly depriving women of the ownership of it. One of the important qualities of landed property is the right to alienate it—to transfer it from one to another. This idea of continuing dominion over property—this handing down from generation to generation, to an individual instead of to the clan or tribe is a purely artificial thing. Primitive peoples knew no such thing. "The earth is like fire and water, that cannot be sold," say the Omahas. Among the Jews and Semetic peoples, there was no private property in land. "The land shall not be sold forever, for the land is mine; for ye are strangers and sojourners with me." (Leviticus XXV:23). This idea of continuing dominion over property is perhaps the one thing, in the development of property rights which has caused the greatest injustice to women. During Feudal times, when the landed property was in the hands of the feudal lords, only those had possession of land who could render military service to the lord. This precluded women from holding property at all.
As we look back one hundred years, the status of women was so different from what it is now with respect to her right to own property and her rights with respect to her home and her children that it is really difficult to appreciate how much we have advanced. During that period there has been a definite continuing trend towards an equal division of rights. It has been somewhat of an uphill fight. The women have carried forward the fight always—they have been on the aggressive side, and very naturally society has resisted more or less. Mankind are slow to change those forms to which they have been ac-
WOMAN'S LEGAL PERSONALITY
customed. The change required something more than the casual consent of people. It had to be recorded in some way, because it was a change in the community custom—in what was known as the Common Law—that body of law which had been adopted by our colonies and which is still the law, excepting where it has been expressly changed by statute in each state.
By the rules of the Common Law, not only in theory but in actual practice, the person and property of a wife were under the absolute control of her husband. Marriage was the act by which she ceased to have a legal existence, by which her very being became incorporated or merged into that of her husband. She was presumed by law to be under the protection and influence of her husband—to be absolutely and entirely one person with him, and she had no life in law apart from him. Having established the marriage relation, it could only be dissolved by death, or by divorce granted by Act of Parliament, or in this country, by Act of the Legislature. No absolute divorce could be granted for any acts arising after the marriage, but a separation might be decreed in case of adultery of either party.
The husband was entitled to the control, use and enjoyment of his wife's real estate during the marriage. All personal property belonging to her vested absolutely in the husband at marriage. It was his to deal with as he pleased. He could dispose of it while living, or will it to anyone he might select, and if he died without a will, it descended to his heirs. Even the wife's wearing apparel and ornaments, known as "paraphernalia" belonged to the husband. During his life, he had the power to sell
581
or give them away, but he could not devise them by will. A wife had no power to convey her real property, nor could she devise her personal property by will without the consent of her husband. Upon death of the husband, the wife took 1/3 of his personal estate if there were children, and 1/2 if there were no children, and she was entitled to dower or life interest in 1/3 of his real property, whether there were children or not. The right of dower has always been regarded with favor. The great English jurist, Lord Coke, said: "There be three things highly favored in law—life, liberty and dower." The law has always guarded jealously this established right of married women.
A wife's earnings, though acquired by her individual labor and in a business separate and apart from her husband belonged to him. Personal property descended to males and females in equal amounts, but the eldest son was entitled to the whole of his father's real property. The father was legally entitled to the custody of the children. The right of the mother was never recognized, it being expressly stated by Blackstone that "a mother, as such, is entitled to no power, but only to reverence and respect." The father might by will appoint a guardian for his children after his death, though yet unborn, or might apprentice them or give them into the custody of others without the consent of the mother.
The husband was the head of the family and had the legal right to establish his home or domicile in any part of the world where his interests, his tastes, his convenience or even his caprice might suggest, and it was the wife's duty to follow him. If she refused to accompany
582 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
him, no matter upon what ground, she was guilty of desertion. The husband was liable for all her debts contracted before marriage and this was true though he may have received no property with her. He 'adopted her and her circumstances together.'
The husband might exercise power over the person of his wife by restraining her of her liberty in case of gross misbehavior, or by giving her moderate chastisement in the same degree that he might administer correction to his children. An early decision of one of our state courts interpreted this to mean that a man might whip his wife with a switch as large as his finger, but not larger than his thumb, without being guilty of an assault.
A wife had no power to contract a legal debt, nor to bind herself by any kind of an agreement, neither could she make her husband liable for any debt or contract except for necessaries. A wife could neither sue nor be sued unless her husband was joined with her in the suit. A judgment against her was void because she was unknown to the law apart from her husband. One entered in her favor became the property of her husband.
The legal fiction of the unity of the persons of husband and wife is the foundation upon which the great body of our law relating to married women is built. As it became apparent that the Common Law failed to satisfy the demands for justice, the strictness of its rules have been relaxed by giving them an interpretation more in harmony with advancing civilization, or they have been modified or completely changed by statute. In Utah, they have been completely changed. Our law-makers spoke early and emphatically, and so far as the property rights of the women of Utah are concerned, there is no state in the Union which has gone farther in protecting them, and few states in which women have as advantageous a position. In fact, the statutes have gone so far that the property rights of women are superior to those of men. "One of the first Articles of our State Constitution, (Art. IV, Sec. 1) reads: "The right of citizens of the State of Utah to vote and hold office shall not be denied or abridged on account of sex. Both male and female citizens of this state shall enjoy equally all civil, political and religious rights and privileges." Following the enactment of this decree of equal suffrage, an interesting argument and debate took place in the Constitutional Convention over the question of the property rights of married women. At the close of this debate, the following was adopted: (Art. XXII, Sec. 2) "The real and personal estate of every female, acquired before marriage, and all property to which she may afterwards become entitled by purchase, gift, grant, inheritance or devise, shall be and reniain the estate and property of such female, and shall not be liable for the debts, obligations or engagements of her husband, and may be conveyed, devised or bequeathed by her as if she were unmarried." Under *the statutes of Utah, a married man has no similar right. He cannot convey, devise or bequeath his property as if he were unmarried. A wife has an inchoate right in a one-third interest in the real-estate of her husband, and this cannot be alienated except by her own act. Several years ago, our Supreme Court held that for the purposes of taking advantage of our homestead law and designating a homestead, WOMAN'S LEGAL PERSONALITY either the husband or the wife was the "'head of the family." This was heralded as a great victory by the ardent supporters of ''women's rights." But an examination of our statutes will disclose that this "right" brought with it burdens and responsibilities. Since the wife and mother is a head of the family, she is responsible for their maintenance and support and can be punished for her failure in this respect equally with the husband and father. Sec. 2991, Laws of Utah, 1917, reads: "The expenses of the family and the education of the children are chargeable upon the property of both husband and wife, or of either of them, and in relation thereto, they may be sued jointly or separately." And Chap. 148, Laws of Utah, 1921, reads: "Desertion of children or failure to provide for his or her minor child or children is a felony and punishable by imprisonment in the state penitentiary. «Oe OY FO many years, the women of the nation sought to have the Federal Statutes with respect to the citizenship of married women changed, and in 1924 this was accomplished. Up to that time, the citizenship of a married woman followed that of her husband. If a citizen married an alien, she became an alien—if an alien married a 583 citizen, she became a citizen. Under the present statute, a woman does not lose her citizenship by marrying an alien, but can lose it only by renouncing it. If an alien woman marries an American citizen, she does not thereby become a citizen, but may become such only by conforming to the procedure outlined, much in the same way as a male alien becomes a citizen, with some slight advantages in the matter of time of residence. AM inclined to believe that American women are securing all that they consider to be their rights about as rapidly as they are prepared to exercise such rights. And in Utah, my observation is that we have our full share of "rights", and so far as property rights are concerned, our law-makers have, as I have pointed out, discriminated very definitely in favor of married women. But, after all, will not the advancement of the State and Nation be more wholesome and rapid if all citizens work to one objective, without concern as to the advantage of any group, for "The woman's cause is man's; they rise or sink Together; dwarfed or godlike, bond or. Free; If she be small, slight-natured, miserable, How shall men grow?" (Tennyson—The Princess) Photo by Hileman. WATERTON LAKE AND MT. VIMY Women in Industry By Ruth May Fox JUST how or when it was first J discovered that women were inferior to men is not exactly explained. John Stuart Mills, in his essay on the subjection of woman says, "It arose simply from the fact that from the very earliest twilight of human society, every woman (owing to the value attached to her by men combined with her inferiority in muscular strength) was found in a state of bondage to some man. Laws and systems of polity always begin with recognizing the relations they find already existing between individuals. They convert what was a mere physical fact into a legal right which, of course, receives the sanction of society." HISTORY tells us that ancient Greece, within a century, produced seventy-six women poets, the incomparable Sapho being one of them. As early as the fourth and fifth century B. C. Women of the hetaira, because of their friendly intercourse with men became their ad- 'visors and counselors. One Aspasia especially is renowned as being the companion of the famous statesman Pericles, and is said fo have written some of his best speeches. Scores of others were famous in that distant day in philosophy, geometry, astronomy, and general mathematics. Hypatia, daughter of Theon, a distinguished mathematician and astronomer, became so proficient under the tutorage of her father that she excelled him in his arts. OME also produced many learned women. "For nearly fifteen centuries St. Jerome has had May Fox the gratitude of the church for his masterly translation, known as the Vulgate of the Hebrew Scriptures, but had it not been for his two noble friends, Paula and Eustochium, who were as eminent for their intellectual attainments as they were for their descent from the most distinguished families of Rome and Greece, there would have been no Vulgate, for they were not only his inspirers in this colossal undertaking, but they were his active and zealous collaborators as well. All of which St. Jerome gladly admitted, and it is refreshing to read in Biblical lore: "She considereth a field and buyeth it, with the fruits of her hands she planteth a vineyard. But it was a long, dark trail from the glory of Greece and Rome to the beginning of the struggle for a renewal of these privileges. During the so-called "Dark Ages" civilization passed through a cloud so dense that education was driven largely into convents. From these, however, women were not excluded. Indeed, they had great opportunities for exceptional training in letters, but under the rule of King Henry VIII the convents were closed, and in lieu thereof, colleges sprang into existence solely in the interest of men. It was enough that women should be "sensible and virtuous." Only a century ago Immanuel Kant uttered the following: "All abstract speculations, all knowledge which is dry, however useful it may be, must be abandoned to the laborious and solid mind of man. “Women in Science," Mozans, 586 © one denies that women have always been an important factor in the work of the world, since the first home was organized — whether cave or hut. Authorities all admit that they have carried their share of the burdens of life and that it is their right to work to supply their needs, but they have invaded the stage in a new role— competitors with men. There's the rub. If history is to be relied on, primitive women were the first basket makers, weavers, and gardeners. They made the first clay vessels as receptacles for the dishes they must concoct from the various growing things which necessity forced them to experiment with, they must satisfy the hunger of their children. In like manner women became the first physicians. They must heal the sick with the herbs they gathered in the primeval forests. So they became the first scientists. They learned to dress the skins of wild beasts and make them into clothing, for, men, forsooth, weary of the chase must be made comfortable. As one writer says, speaking especially of the Australian aborigines, "Men hunt, spear fish,- and sit about." The wives, no doubt, used all their powers of invention to improve the situation in which they found themselves. The care of the babies they loved would impel them to improve their environment." BECAUSE of that overwhelming idea of woman's inferiority history has not had much to say of her part in industry. Her place was in the home, and important as the home is in the welfare of the race, until recent years it appears the keeper of the home was not considered a worker, notwithstanding the home early became the work shop where the "fine twined linen and goats' hair' were: made into RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE garments mostly by women and children. Coming down to Colonial days the spinning, weaving, and making of clothes for the family was done in the home. Butter, cheese, candles, soap, and many other commodities were the products of the home, in addition women often worked in the fields and sometimes even helped to build their cabins. Later a system of trading came into vogue. Families began to make things for exchange with other families; thus adding to the comfort of living. Occasionally they sold their products for money, although money was not considered an essential in those days. As business increased, the home became a veritable manufacturing establishment where merchandise to supply the public needs was produced. A LITTLE more than a century ago the great, noisy, whirling, machine age was being ushered in and women and children in large numbers found employment in the factories, where, although the hours were long, it was a novelty and a welcomed change. This work, however, presented a new problem. Although woman's work in the home had been arduous, they could have a watchful care over the children and prepare their husband's meals between times. So here was a serious situation. Some years ago in a gathering of the National Council of Women of the United States, convened in Washington, D. C., Mrs. Harriet R. Robinson of Malden, Massachusetts, told this story: "I went into a Lowell factory when I was eleven years old and worked fourteen hours a day. I had a dear mother who gave me enough to eat and took care that I had sleep enough and so it did not harm me. I went to the factory in the morning at five o'clock, worked two hours and then ran out for my breakfast, a half hour perhaps. Then I went back for six hours and so the thing went on, until seven o'clock at night. I stayed there for eleven years, until I was married." This was the lot of many women and children, both in the old world and in America in 1830. But the work put more money into their pockets than they had heretofore received for the same hours of labor, and no doubt the experience put a degree of independence in their hearts, thus awakening ambition, and women began to look about.
HORRIBLE as it is to contemplate, war plays a conspicuous part in the economic interests of women. It creates an emergency in which they are pushed to the fore. This is true of all wars, but we will speak only of the later ones. The Civil war called many women into unusual occupations, but when the war was over they fell back into their old positions, but did not forget their achievements. Not so in the World war. Women proved positively that they could organize and execute plans in fields which before only men had attempted. In that crisis there were few industries that women did not enter, and that, too, at the solicitation of men who changed front very considerably when the war was over. However, women's feet became so firmly planted in industrial soil that it will be difficult to uproot them. Women, having entered into competition with men, naturally demand equal pay for equal work. Surveys, however, reveal that fifty-three per cent of the wages men receive is the estimated ratio for women in the same kind of employment. Everyone will admit that this is not just, but there are many reasons given. One is that women will accept a low wage reasoning doubtless that a little is better than nothing, that where physical strength is required, it takes five women to do the work of four men; in some cases, three women to two men. That women employees are more expensive than men, they must have more comforts, better sanitary conditions and shorter hours. There is still another phase which perhaps is lost sight of, especially by young women. To them it is often only a temporary job. They are looking forward to marriage, when they will be relieved of daily toil so that really they do not prepare themselves for a life's job as do young men. It is discovered also that while a college education is always an asset, graduates do not like to begin at the first round of the ladder and really get into the technical training that is necessary to fit them for the more advanced positions. So that often the higher salaries go to the girl who, not having the advantage of higher education, has become familiar with every detail of the business or profession. Again men say that women succeed better in their own groups, or where they manage their own business—to which most of us will agree. Because of these deficiencies one authority says, "Positions of skill, training and responsibility are usually given to men, whereas positions requiring speed and a certain amount of dexterity, but not exceptional skill, are usually held by women. Consequently, women suffer not only from inadequate compensation, but also from fatigue and nervous strain. The conspicuous lack of industrial training among women accounts for this discrepancy."
Time, it is thought, will remedy this condition. Many industrial concerns, as well as various unions, are giving training. Colleges also are giving attention to vocational guidance with a view of fitting their students for a business or professional career.
THE Women's Bureau, headed by Grace Abbott, credited to have been brought about by the women of the trades' union and supported by other interested bodies, is doing much for women's industrial interests. If women, generally, though they may not have to earn their bread, would interest themselves in working for legislation that would deal fairly with their sex, the wheels of progress would move more rapidly. It is interesting to note the following helpful suggestion: "Secure technical training, don't fall into work." "Secure as much theoretical training and industrial experience as possible." "Get a thorough knowledge of economics, sociology and statistics, and also familiarity with the various office devices, used in statistical work—slide rule, adding machines, typewriters, ruling pen, etc." Another group of professional women working for the interests of women gives the following instructions: "Get a knowledge of labor from the inside; cultivate tact and accuracy and utilize every opportunity of learning about industrial problems." Alternate training with actual employment or industrial experience in order that education and experience may supplement each other. Take very thorough university and school of civics training, stressing economics, sociology, and applied psychology.
The last quarter of a century has done much to further the cause of women, and women have done much to improve industrial conditions. They have had a care for the welfare of workers, some of them being themselves mothers, know how to sympathize with the woman who must work to support herself and children. Mothers have been known, because of stress of circumstances, to work nights and take care of their children in the day time, having perhaps only four hours sleep out of the twenty-four. Surely this should be the concern of men as well as women. If sweat shop system, bad sanitary conditions, dangerous occupations, may all be alleviated when women, as a whole, unite to eliminate them. The census figures for 1920 show that of the approximately forty-two million persons, ten years of age and over engaged in gainful occupation, about 8,500,000 or twenty per cent were females. There were also forty-six professional vocations in which women were employed. It is safe to say there are many more now—for women stop at nothing. We find them on the sea and in the air and in the wilds of Africa. Of women who have distinguished themselves in recent years we are proud to name Miss Charlotte Angas Scott, who for many years was professor of mathematics at the college of Bryn Mawr, who it is said followed closely in the footsteps of her famous predecessor, Hypatia. It would not be fair to single out any one woman from the list who has distinguished herself in the study of astronomy. There are many professors and assistant professors in colleges and universities both in the old world and the new.
The same may be said of women in physics. Become experts in the natural sciences and stand side by side with men professors in teaching this study. Women in medicine and surgery are no longer under the ban, but in America and England especially they are looked upon as an evidence of an advanced civilization. Two brilliant American women, Mrs. Lewis and Mrs. Gibson, twins, by the way, have made rare contributions to scriptural literature by their research work in the convent library at Mt. Sinai after many eminent scholars had thought the convent exhausted of its precious treasures. "But more remarkable than the mere discovery of so many invaluable manuscripts which was, of course, an extraordinary achievement, is the fact that these manuscripts, whether in Syriac, Arabic, or Hebrew, have been translated and notated and edited by these same scholarly women. Already more than a score of volumes have come from their prolific pens, all evincing the keenest critical acumen and the highest order of Biblical and archaeological scholarship."
Miss Dorothea Klumpe, of San Francisco, who after studying in Europe, applied for admission as a student to the Paris observatory, was the first woman to offer herself as a colleague, and as there was no statute against it she was received and given a telescope for her own use and immediately set herself to complete the work began by Madam Kovalesky, who in 1888 was awarded the Prix Bordin, the greatest scientific honor which any woman had ever gained. One of the greatest honors, indeed, to which any one can aspire. This prize was won in a world wide competition, men as well as women, to the profound astonishment of the committee of the French Academy. Scores of women have.
Commenting on the success of women, in business and professions, there is Mabel Walker Willebrandt, an eminent lawyer and one time Assistant Attorney General of the Supreme Court of the United States. Miss Margaret Stewart organized a credit bureau in Ogden which is listed as a million dollar business. Judge Florence Allen, once of Utah, now of Ohio, is one of the Chief Justices of that State. Of Madam Curie's splendid achievement in science all the world knows, of whom it has been written: "Never in the history of science have the results of a woman's scientific researches been so stupendous or so revolutionary, and never has any one achievement in science reflected more glory of womankind than that which is so largely due to the genius and the perseverance of Madam Curie."
So women are coming into what they consider their just rights. They not only have the right to earn money for their own maintenance, but apparently they may frequently support their husbands and children. To be a wage earner and a voter has brought about a marvelous change in the status of women. Opportunity has, no doubt, quickened their intelligence and their ambitions. Just what the results will be is already foreshadowed. Men are being crowded out of their God given right to work and earn a livelihood for their families, and yet it is not just to say that many women are not compelled to work. It has always been true, that multitudes of women have had to support their children but the criticism is that the industries are crowded with women and girls who work for pin money to the detriment of the home and other would be workers. So instead of being the mothers to whom all the family do homage, women are fast becoming the bread winners and perhaps crushing out the very thing she most admires in men.
However, all are agreed that the transition from slave to helpmeets was necessary and perhaps the pendulum will swing back by and by and the world be made better by the change. In the meantime, women are having the opportunities of proving that they are capable of doing most anything they set their minds to, which, of course is a source of satisfaction to themselves and has been somewhat of an astonishment to men, and they succeed, too, immeasurably. Instead of being the plodders in the business world they are fast becoming foremen, managers of banks, architects, designers, engineers, journalists, lawyers, physicians, executive secretaries, and often the real head of some great institution. But still they have not yet reached the shining heights to which their ambitions lead them. No limitations for women, is what the more ambitious demand.
Windows By Mary Hale Woolsey
Windows!—They are such joyous things! —Who does not love a shining casement high, Flung wide to greet a rosy morning sky, And let the sunbeams in on golden wings!
And at still twilight, when the sunset's last Faint colors fade into the gray of night, —To frame far stars that send their silver light, Gem-like, to crown a sweet hour slipping past!
Windows! Oh, give me them on every side! —That I may live abundantly in light, And feast my eyes on scenes of beauty bright— On high inspiring hills, and valley fair and wide.
And as my house needs windows, so my heart Requires light and needs an outlook fair; I would have Love to glow forever there, And Loving be of life the better part.
Then, so that I, as onward seasons roll, May see God's handiwork in all around— And have a Light to lead me, heavenward bound— Let Faith shine through the windows of my soul! Joseph Smith—Genius or Prophet By James L. Barker
how do these respective organizations compare as machines? In primitive times, bishops were nominated by superior authority, but the wishes of the body of the Church were ascertained concerning those who were to minister unto them: "Owing to the exceptional authority of the Apostles, the selection of the clergy in the beginning was left almost entirely in their hands, though even then the Church's wishes were first ascertained. * * * Members of the lower clergy were selected by the bishop, information being previously sought as to the Church's feelings." Early in the fourth century, Athanasius says that he was elected (A. D. 326) "by a majority of our body (the bishops) and with the acclamation of all the people." Maclean also quotes the Testament of our Lord, 1:20, the bishops "being chosen by all the people according to the will of the Holy Ghost." This condition, however, was not to continue, the Council of Laodicea (A. D. 380) reached the decision that "the choice of those to be appointed to the priesthood shall not rest with the multitude." Thus the laity lost their privilege of voting to sustain the ministry, and, after this time, the church members secured no voice in the selection of those who were to preside over them. During the time of the Great Schism, A Manual of Church History, by J. Maclean in Encyclopedia of Religion and Ethics, Laity. the Council of Constance declared: 1. "That the Council of Constance legally assembled in the name of the Holy Ghost and constituting a presiding council over the militant Catholic Church, has received its authority immediately from Jesus Christ, to which authority everyone, no matter what his rank or dignity, be it even that of the Pope, is bound to obey, in all things concerning faith, etc. 2. And whosoever, of whatever rank and dignity, be it even that of the Pope, who stubbornly refuses obedience to the decisions of this Council or the decisions of any other council regularly assembled, * * * shall be subjected to a suitable penance and fittingly punished * * *" Nevertheless, the papacy was to triumph. It was forbidden by Pope Pius II to appeal from the decisions of the Pope to a general council (1459). And a bull of Leo X (1516) affirmed that "The Roman Pope has the right to call, to postpone and to dissolve all councils." And the fourth session of the Council of the Vatican, July 18, 1870, decreed: "In agreement with the received traditions since the beginnings of Christian faith, we teach and declare to the honor of God * * * that the Roman Pope, when he speaks ex cathedra, that is in the exercise of his office as shepherd and teacher of all Christians by virtue of his high apostolic authority * * * that he then possesses infallibility through the divine support promised in Saint Peter * * * and that therefore such decisions of the Roman Pope, in and of themselves, and not first after approval of the Church, are unchangeable." It is essential to note that after the Council of Elvira officers in the priesthood were no longer submitted to the approval of the people over whom they were to preside; after this time when unfit candidates were chosen for the ministry, the people, having lost their means of protection were unable to rid themselves of negligent or worldly priests; if liberty of conscience was infringed upon, they no longer had any efficient means of protesting. The power and authority concentrated in the hands of the priesthood by the action of the Council of Elvira, was placed in the hands of the Pope by the Decree of the Council of the Vatican in 1870. In matters of morals and faith the Pope is now theoretically supreme. If he should disagree with the entire Church, he would be right and they would be wrong. Since the Council of Elvira, the clergy, and since the Council of the Vatican, the Pope—the people being without a voice in their selection and having no vote in any church matter, doctrinal or otherwise—have been unlimited in their authority. This idea of authority is correct in part. If no one had accepted him, Jesus would have been the Son of God. Had he been rejected by all, Peter would have possessed the authority bestowed upon him by Jesus and would have been the chief of all the Apostles and a prophet. On the other hand, a Supreme Pontiff, like a despotic monarch, may do what he pleases, and no one may question the rightfulness of his actions. As the vicegerent of Christ, the Pope has in times past issued bulls for the stamping out of heresy and sincere men, following the best light they had, have been burned. All Christian life is premised on free will, but such bulls and acts compelling the human conscience nullify free will, and make it, as it were, non-existent. They
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
strike at the fundamental condition of a religious life. Whatever machinery the Primitive Church possessed—voting to approve their bishops, etc.—that might have prevented the compelling of the human conscience, the Catholic Church has lost, and I know of no machinery that it has either invented or restored to take its place. A sharp line has been drawn between clergy and laity, and the clergy has been largely entrusted with the religious thinking of the laity, deciding what the laity shall read and how and what they read shall be interpreted. Therein, too, is a principle that is partly right: no man may change a physical law according to his fancy. A true religious principle will be true whether accepted or rejected. But with the monarchical idea, seen above, it has given rise to all kinds of compulsion. The Catholic Church has evolved nothing to safeguard human liberty, the exercise of Christian free will, and freedom of conscience.
Luther had an entirely different view: Scripture was not to be interpreted by the Fathers, but the Fathers were to be judged by their agreement or disagreement with Scripture; Holy Scripture is its own interpreter and needs no formal explanation by Church Authority; the individual conscience is responsible to God alone in all matters of faith and life. Except distant revealed authority, these principles reject all authority, and even distant revealed authority is subject to individual interpretation. Together with the belief that the congregation should decide who shall preach, baptize, etc., these doctrines assure theoretically the most complete individualism, the purest democracy. But in safeguarding human liberty, the exercise of free will, and the untrammelled choice of the conscience, all principle of authority is sacrificed. The development of the constitution of the Catholic Church has been consistent with the theory that the Apostles "derived their authority direct from Him immediately," and the government of the Lutheran Church is in harmony with the theory that they derived their authority "from the people to whom they were to minister." One conception represents the principle of absolute authority, and the other of complete human liberty and individualism. The two principles, though antagonistic, should find their expression in all Church government.
These principles were reconciled in the Primitive Church: Christ called the Apostles, the people did not call them, and the Apostles did not choose Him; however, before a bishop could act he had to be accepted by the Church over which he was to preside. If Joseph Smith is a prophet, it is because he was called of God, and the acceptance or rejection of his message in no way affects the authority of his priesthood (or that of his successors) and herein the principle of authority is operative. But Joseph Smith could not be the president of the Church without the approval of the Church over which he presided. Moreover he provided for his possible recall twice a year, because the president of the church must be sustained in conference assembled twice annually. And just as Peter presented the matter of the observance of the Jewish law to the "apostles and elders" and the "multitude" and all these came to a decision, so under the plan revealed to Joseph Smith, any decision of the Twelve Apostles concerning important doctrine is presented to the priesthood and the members of the Church for their assent. Those to be ordained to the priesthood or to be set apart to administrative offices in the Church, bishops, presidents of stakes, etc., are nominated by their respective superior presiding officers of the Church, herein the principle of authority finds its expression. Before any of these officers enter into the activities of their office, the people over whom they are to preside, vote to accept or reject them. Further, the people are given opportunity, four times a year, either to sustain them or to recall them; and twice a year they vote to ratify or reject new nominees and to recall or sustain the highest officers in the Church. Herein the people exercise the principle of human liberty and democracy, always carefully safeguarded in the Scriptures.
THE Council of Elvira, in deciding that the choice should not be left to the "multitude," had in mind, perhaps, possible or actual conflict in the decisions of the superior nominating clergy and the laity. If such a conflict did not arise in the Council of Jerusalem and if it has been exceedingly rare in the Church today, it is because a means of unification has been present. "Another authority, it is true, seems to hover over the community of the disciples of Christ: it is the authority of the Holy Ghost. Nothing is more remarkable than the frequency with which the Holy Ghost is mentioned in the acts of the Apostles. Everything that is done of importance in the new Church is attributed to the Spirit."
"The name of the Holy Ghost is one of the first words found on the lips of Peter at the moment when he speaks for the first time before the Disciples assembled to replace Judas. It is from the Holy Ghost that the Apostles receive the Gift of Tongues. It is to the influence of the Holy Ghost that Peter attributes all the supernatural manifestations of the Day of Pentecost. The Apostle will reproach Ananias for having lied to the Holy Ghost and Saphira for having tempted the Spirit of the Lord. The first martyr, Stephen, will be characterized as a man full of faith and the Holy Ghost; the Spirit of the Holy Ghost will speak by his mouth. Later we shall see the Holy Ghost setting apart Paul and Barnabas, and preventing Paul and Silas from passing into Asia. This Spirit is moreover represented as a Spirit of peace, of beauty and of joy." (Acts 13:56.) "Under its influence and under the paternal authority of the chief of the Apostles, the growing community is organized and develops like the most united of families." When the Apostles, by thought and discussion, had arrived at a decision, they were entitled to the inspiration of the Holy Ghost, confirming or disapproving their conclusions, and the multitude was entitled to the same inspiration by the same Spirit in voting their approval or disapproval, and all were in full possession of freedom of the will as to whether they would act in harmony with the will of God, as revealed by the Holy Ghost. However, if "the era of public revelation (was) closed with the death of the last one among them (the 'Apostles)," there is no longer any unfailing source of truth to serve as a principle of unity in the decisions of priesthood and laity, and to harmonize the exercise of the principles of authority and human liberty.
If Joseph Smith taught, not that the head of the Church would be infallible, but that inasmuch as he followed the inspiration of the Lord, he would make no mistake; that the Council of the Twelve would be entitled to the same inspiration of the Holy Ghost as the President and his Counselors and would be called upon to ratify or reject nominations and revelations given to the president; that the priesthood in general would be called upon to do the same thing; and the masses of the people be called upon to vote in harmony with the inspiration of the same Spirit—if he taught this, knowing that no such spirit was to be given and expecting unanimous action without it; then he was guilty of a great absurdity; but, if he taught it, knowing that the Spirit would be given, he was reestablishing an absolutely essential element in the government of the Church, without which there would have been no Primitive Church, that is, there would have been no Divine Church; and if the Church plan of Church government, guided by the Holy Ghost, has worked satisfactorily for a hundred years in our time, with unity of thought and feeling and action, it is because Joseph Smith did not "invent" it, or obtain the idea through scholarship, but received it by revelation and authority.
SOME Protestant churches and at times some Catholics have made commendable efforts to seek inspiration and to follow the inner guide—Quakers and Methodists—have been among the most successful. The Catholic Church has evolved the doctrine of the infallibility of the Pope, but whether this infallibility in matters of doctrine and faith be brought about by revelation or by some other means it is shared by him alone. Further, Joseph Smith declared: "That the rights of the priesthood are inseparably connected with the powers of heaven, and that the powers of heaven cannot be controlled nor handled only upon the principles of righteousness. That they may be conferred upon us it is true; but when we undertake to cover our sins, or to gratify our pride, our vain ambition, or to exercise control or dominion or compulsion upon the souls of the children of men, in any degree of unrighteousness, behold the heavens withdraw themselves; the Spirit of the Lord is grieved; and when it is withdrawn, Amen to the priesthood or the authority of that man. * * * No power or influence can or ought to be maintained by virtue of the priesthood, only by persuasion. By long-suffering, by gentleness and meekness, and by love unfeigned; by kindness and pure knowledge, which shall greatly enlarge the soul without hypocrisy, and without guile—reproving betimes with sharpness, when moved upon by the Holy Ghost; and then showing forth afterwards an increase of love toward him whom thou hast reproved, lest he esteem thee to be his enemy; that he may know that thy faithfulness is stronger than the cords of death."
JOSEPH SMITH'S plan also provides the means of bringing an Apostle, or a president of the Church to trial before the Church courts, and Apostles have been tried and excommunicated. The plan he established provides for the harmonious operation of the contradictory but necessarily co-existing principles of authority and human liberty in Church government; and the plan has functioned in all weathers, quiet and rough, for a hundred years! The Church government installed by Joseph Smith has all the merits of a benevolent despotism and of a complete democracy, and none of their defects. Did he invent it? Did he restore it by scholarship? Obviously he could have done neither. Then, he received it as a revelation from the Lord. Certainly, less perfect plans cannot be from the Almighty, because man could not do better than an omniscient deity.
The change from a self-supporting to a paid ministry has been fraught with a grave consequence. The anger of the Savior was aroused by the hypocrisy of the Pharisees and Sadducees and he instituted an unpaid ministry to lessen the evil. In the early Christian Church, "many of the clergy supported themselves on their patrimony, or followed the example of St. Paul (Acts 20:34) in working for their living, either in the fields, or at a trade or otherwise. Some bishops, indeed, gave so much time to their worldly business that Cyprian (De lapsis, 4) was led to complain, and the Council of Elvira (circa 300, can. 19) to decree a prohibition." In the following period, "The poorer clergy mostly continued to earn their living by manual labor. In the Statuta ecclesiae antiqua, a collection of canons which purports to have been drawn up by the Fourth Council of Carthage (398), but which was really composed in the fifth century in Gaul or Spain, home-work or agriculture is actually made obligatory on the clergy. On the other hand, commercial undertaking which Constantine had promoted by abolishing the duties to be paid, were forbidden the clergy by Valentinian III, under pain of the loss of clerical privileges. In spite of this, the wealth of the Church grew steadily, especially on account of the right to receive legacies which had been granted her by Constantine. According to Roman practice, the revenues were divided into four portions, of which one went to the bishop, another to the rest of the clergy, whilst the other two were devoted to the maintenance of ecclesiastical buildings and the relief of the poor. In Spain three portions only were made, there being no special provision for the poor, and an identical custom probably prevailed in Gaul." To the professions of the rich young man that he had kept all the Commandments, including, "Thou shalt love thy neighbor as thyself," Jesus replied: "If thou wilt be perfect, go and sell what thou hast, and give to the poor * * * and, come and follow me," thus testing his sincerity. With a paid ministry, there is little to test sincerity. A Catholic or a Protestant may be a candidate for the ministry, prepare for it, and aspire to the highest honors in the gift of the church. Any priest or pastor may perform his ministry from sincere devotion to Christ, or, on the other hand, theoretically, he may do it as a means of livelihood, just as his brother, to gain a living, may become a lawyer. Younger sons have often been made bishops for purely worldly reasons. The Catholic and the Protestant Churches have lost the safeguard of sincerity established by the Savior, and have found perhaps nothing to take its place.
A CHURCH should provide tests of the sincerity of those who teach moral and spiritual truth. In the Church founded by Joseph Smith, the sincerity of the members is tested by the unpopularity of the church and by tithing; and the work of the priesthood, with the exception of a few, is entirely unpaid; the sincerity of all those who receive some remuneration has been previously tested over a period of years by the payment of tithing and unpaid service in the priesthood, at home or in the missionary field. Further, why be insincere? It is impossible for any one to be a candidate for an office to seek advancement, and, if advancement comes, it brings only opportunity for more unpaid service. Thus, by removing all selfish main-springs of action—desire for gain, ambition—sincerity has been safeguarded on every side. Without sincerity, religion is a vain word; but outside the Church, no religious organization has any machinery for adequately testing it.
MOHAMMEDANISM has been characterized as the religion of submission, and, Christianity, as the religion of collaboration with God. The greater the number actually engaged in active collaboration in the work of the Church, the more typically Christian, the Church. The historical Churches have drawn a rather sharp line between clergy and laity, and the limited number of the clergy alone are entrusted with the work of the Church. In the Church plan given through Joseph Smith, all men of good will are engaged in the service of the Church. For instance, in the tenth ward in Salt Lake City, there are about five hundred active Church officers, and every member of the Church in any ward has the opportunity all the time of being in training for service or actually serving in an organized way.
THE most noted men of science are usually known for but one or at most two or three great discoveries. In the evolution of human institutions any individual man has usually played but a very small part. The Constitution of the United States, for example, is the work of a convention, based on all preceding theoretical discussions and English and American governmental institutions. In developing these institutions the contribution of any individual, or of any brief period of any time, is either almost insensible, or brought about in part by the force of circumstances, such as the calling of two burghers by Simon de Montfort from each town, thus laying the foundation for government by representation in the House of Commons. Civil institutions have been of slow growth and no plan of government, civil or religious, made out of whole cloth by any individual has rarely or ever possessed great merit or even the elements of success. The strength of the church organization given by Joseph Smith is so extraordinary and so unprecedented that it is well-nigh inexplicable. It harmonizes what is known concerning the organization of the Primitive Church, reconciling the contradictory principle of authority and the liberty of the individual, and even illuminating details of practice in the Primitive Church, such as calling an Apostle an elder, such as an elder presiding over a church, etc.; it guarantees to the greatest degree known, the sincerity of its members and its officers. It enlists the maximum number in the service of the church, and like the Primitive Church, secures unity through the direction of the Holy Ghost. More plausible than the assumption that Joseph Smith invented the organization or that he restored it as the result of his own scholarship or the scholarship of others, is the acceptance of his testimony that it was restored and revealed from Heaven. He had not only "a strong mind," but was a Prophet of the Lord.
The Rapids By Elsie C. Carroll
CLAIRE'S first reaction to Great-aunt Diantha's prim little note was pleasant. Simultaneously with her recognition of the wavering signature, had rushed memories of sedate beds of bachelor buttons and marigolds against the white frame farmhouse, cackling hen, lowing cows, fresh-baked salt-rising bread, golden squares of comb-honey, and a hundred other things that had made her childhood visits to Aunt Diantha's treasured patches of purple. But swiftly upon the heels of this first reaction came another—not so pleasant. What would she, with her work and all her civic and social obligations, and above all with that strange, intangible gulf widening between herself and Phil—what would she do with Aunt Diantha as a guest? Aunt Diantha was of the old school. Being past eighty she could not be expected to understand or sympathize with the work of a modern woman. Furthermore, she was alert and penetrating. She would be sure to sense that Claire's matrimonial barque was not sailing upon perfectly smooth waters, and Claire could not bear the thought of having this fact broadcast among her relatives and friends. Her quandary was interrupted by her ten-year old daughter Angela who burst into the room. "Mother, may I go over to Monna's?" "But, Angela, you were over there all morning, weren't you? When I 'phoned from the studio to remind you of your dancing lesson, Nellie said you were over to Blake's." The child's face fell. "You don't want to live over there do you?" "Oh, but Mother, you see how cute the twins Harold and Flossie too. Monna and I play we are the mothers. I have Flossie and one of the twins and she has Harold and the other and we—" "Well it seems to me that Mrs. Blake has enough children of her own without you as an extra one all the time." "But I help Monna tend them— and it's the most fun—and it's too lonesome here with nothing to play with—but—" "Well, Angela, I like that! Nothing to play with! There isn't a little girl of our acquaintance with more ought to are, and "But Mother—I mean—well, it's so much more fun to play with the babies. They're the cunningest things. You should have seen the twins this morning. Frankie—" "You can't go just now. You must help me get the guest room ready. We are going to have company, and Nellie has all she can do getting things finished up for her vacation." "Oh, goody! Who's coming?" "Great Aunt Diantha from down in Virginia. She is coming to a convention of the daughters of the Civil War and will stay and visit us afterwards." "Oh, goody, goody! You've told me about her house with all the good things to eat and the eggs to hunt and the funny quilts made out of everybody's clothes."
AUNT DIANTHA came Wednesday evening. The convention started the next day. To Claire's surprise, when she had broken the news of their guest to Phil he had seemed pleased. "She's that brisk little black-eyed woman who gave us the encyclopedia for a wedding present, isn't she?" He even offered to go to the station to meet her when Claire lamented that she'd have to get Jake Baxter to go, as the meeting of the Civic League would not be over by seven o'clock. "Couldn't you cut your meeting this once?" Phil had asked with the note of irritation that marked his attitude toward so many of Claire's activities of late. "Not this one," she had replied. "I'm to make my report on the survey we have been making of the opportunities for women in the various businesses and professions of today." "Then I'll meet her," he had said with decision. "It wouldn't be civil to let that poor old lady who has scarcely been in a big city in her life be met at the station by no one but a strange kid—and as reckless a driver as Jake Baxter."
WHEN Claire returned from her meeting, Aunt Diantha was there. Phil had lighted the fire in the living room grate and he and the old lady were seated cozily before it. Claire felt a surge of gratitude. When he could be such a dear, why was he continually making her feel uncomfortable by his lack of appreciation of her work and the things he was interested in. "Lawsy me, Clary, how young and pretty you look," Aunt Diantha had greeted Claire. "It doesn't seem possible that you are thirty-five years old, and as Philip has been telling me, that you have a half grown girl of your own. I marvel at the way you girls of this age keep your youth when you are so busy at so many things." "Perhaps that is the secret," Claire suggested. "We have so many more things to be interested in than our mothers and grandmothers had." "Mebbe so, mebbe so," the little woman conceded, her dark eyes searching the face of the younger woman critically. "But sometimes I wonder—" What she wondered was left for the time being as at that moment Angela burst like a young whirlwind into the room. "O—Mother—Monna's mamma has a new baby. I don't see why we—" Seeing their visitor she stopped. "Angela," said Claire, "this is Aunt Diantha Goodrich. Mother has told you about the good times she used to have at her home." "O, that is where you used to make butter and cheese and hunt eggs and sew quilts, wasn't it?" "Yes," laughed Claire, "and ate salt-rising bread and home-cured ham and fresh comb-honey." "Mebbe this little girl would like some of Aunty's home-made butter and comb-honey for her supper. I brought a jar of each along," said Aunt Diantha briskly. "Let's have supper right now," pleaded Angela.
AUNT DIANTHA had been with the Parker's a week. Claire had arranged her work so as to give the two days of the convention to her guest. She had accompanied the old lady to her meetings and between times had visited with her various places of interest in the city. Aunt Diantha was as enthusiastic as a child. "I have always tried to keep up to date in my reading," she remarked one evening, "but lawsy me, without actually seeing what's going on in the world it's hard to realize how things are changing. I can hardly believe the world I lived in when I was your age and this progressive world of yours, are the same." "I suppose there have been great changes," said Claire, "especially for women." She had been wanting an opportunity to let Aunt Diantha know that while she was welcome to prolong her visit as long as she liked, that she could not expect her niece to continue to spend all her time as hostess. "For instance," she continued casually, "I suppose in your young days it was quite an unknown thing for a woman to have a business or profession of her own as I do." "Lawsy me, such a thing had never been heard of. There was only one profession for a woman; that was homemaking." "The one profession," Phil remarked dryly from behind his paper, "that will soon be going by the boards." Aunt Diantha darted a questioning glance from Phil to Claire and the latter felt ill at ease. "Just what is your work, Clary? I never have known much about it." She seemed eager. "I've been terribly interested in reading articles in the magazines about the things women are doing." Claire had been afraid Aunt Diantha would be too old-fashioned to appreciate a modern woman's point of view and her obligations. "You know, I was reading just the other day," the old lady went on," about all the marvelous changes that have come about for women in the last hundred years. Instead of being nothing more than household drudges as they used to be, now, this article said, they are working RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE side by side with men in almost every phase of life. It made me wish, almost, that I was young again. But what is it that you are specially interested in, Clary?" "I have a studio down town where I teach interior decorating and other phases of applied art. It's very fascinating. I have more than fifty students enrolled this year." Her eyes glanced uneasily at Phil. "Lawsy me," exclaimed Aunt Diantha, "it must keep you busy— taking care of Philip and Angela and keeping up your home, and belonging to all those clubs you were telling me about." "It does, of course," Claire conceded, expecting to see Phil's paper lowered. "But it's interesting and important, and after all that's what life is for. I have help of course. Nellie who helps me in the house is having her vacation this week. But the two assistants I have at the studio have been running things the last two days. I'll have to go down tomorrow, though, and see how things are coming." "Isn't it time Angela was home?" Phil asked abruptly. "Where is the child, anyhow? When Nellie is gone she never seems to know when it is time to come home." Again Aunt Diantha's bird-like glance darted from Claire to Phil. Claire was sure she sensed something of the rift that was widening between them. "I'll call her," Claire said, rising and going to the 'phone. "She ran over to Blake's a while ago." "Ts that the neighbor with the twins and the little new baby she is always talking about?" Aunt Diantha wanted to know. ALTHOUGH Aunt Diantha had commented upon Claire's youthful appearance the evening of her arrival, before the second week THE RAPIDS of her visit had passed she had detected the tired, worried lines that showed when her' niece was not freshly made-up, and that her glowing color and smoothness of skin were the results of "applied art" rather than of youth and vigor. The old lady had become very thoughtful. She was trying to help about the house since Nellie had written that she was going to be married and would not be back, and one of the assistants at the studio was ill. Phil seemed chronically irritable. Two evenings in succession he telephoned he would not be home for dinner and had not come in until—well, Aunt Diantha wondered at what hour. Her feminine instinct told her that Claire was worried. Besides Claire was over-crowded with committee work. The chairman of the project committee of the Allied Arts Club of which she was president, had fallen down on her work and Claire had had to step in. She had also had to fill in with a paper for another club because the expected lecturer had failed. One evening she came home so tired and haggard that: Aunt Diantha was alarmed. "Lawsy me, Clary, you look like a rag. What is the matter?" "I'm tired, that's all," and Claire began enumerating the tasks and irritations of the day. "Well I should think you would be. All that's enough to kill two or three women." A grim determination suddenly came into the old lady's face. "Now you lie right down on the couch and I'll get you some hot milk and toast, then I'm coming in here and give you a downright lecturing I've been saving up tor some days. When she reappeared with a tray Claire asked: 601 "Isn't Angela here? Hasn't Phil —been home?" "Angela's still over to Drake's," the old lady said seating herself beside the couch. 'The way she's wrapped up in those babies is pitiful. It seems a shame a little thing as wild over babies as she is, can't have some in her own home and not have to go off to the neighbors for the companionship every child has a right to. And as for Philip, he called up a little while ago to see if you were home yet. When I told him you hadn't come he said to tell you he would be going over to Bellview this evening and might not be back until morning." Claire put the bowl of hot milk down. The old lady noticed that her hands were shaking, and that a look of fear had leaped into her unhappy eyes. "Lawsy me, Clary, I guess it gets pretty monotonous to a fine man like Philip to come home night after night and find his wife either out to a club meeting or so tired from her business that she isn't any kind of companion for him. Men are not made so they appreciate things like that, even if the things their wives do are clever and important. I've been wondering, Clary, if you modern women with all your advantages and opportunities might not mebbe be running away from the most important things in the world, into mighty serious danger." The old lady wasn't sure Claire heard, for she suddenly asked, "You—you are sure—he said— he was going to Bellview?" and she burst into tears. "O, Aunt Diantha—you are right," she sobbed hysterically. "Of course there is nothing in the world that matters so much as Phil and Angela—and a real home. I've been blind, and now I can see—- but—it is too late." 602 The old lady tried to soothe her. "What do you mean to late?" "T have known that Phil didn't approve of my doing so much outside the home, and—that—he was becoming interested in that—" "Now you just calm yourself, Clary, and pull yourself together. I don't believe it 7s too late—he just said—he might go." Before Claire could protest the little old lady was at the telephone giving Phil's office number. The seconds that elapsed before the answer came, seemed interminable to Claire., "Hello. Is this Philip? Lawsy, I'm glad you are not gone. Come home quick. Clary is sick and wants you. Yes. Yes." "He'll be here before you get your eyes dried, he was that worried and excited. And I hope, my dear, that you take his hand and steer clear RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE of those rapids that are before you." "Thank you, Aunt Diantha. I'll write my resignation to two or three clubs right tonight and will turn over the active part of the studio work to Margaret. I never realized until lately that the modern woman may make of her advantages and opportunities a real stumbling block to her own happiness. I want all that this age has given to women, but I also want more than anything else the blessings of real wifehood arid motherhood that I have come so near to losing. "Will you call Angela, Aunt Diantha? I wonder—what she would think if I should tell her that— maybe God will send her a little brother or sister soon?" The little old lady's eyes were shining when she took down the receiver again, as she heard Phil's eager step coming up. The walk. SUNNSET CLIFFS, CALIFORNIA There's a spot in my heart where fond memories dwell, deep in the heart of Nature's rugged beauty—Sunset Cliffs. There the ocean roars, the wild waves dashing themselves upon the rocky coast line of California. The deep blue and green shades of the mighty ocean blend in the myriad of hues of Sunset Cliffs. At twilight when the sun is sinking over the horizon, these rocky shelves resembling stairways for mythical giants, glow their prettiest. One stands entranced by the beauty spot, speechless with wonder at the marvels of Nature.—Glen Perrins. The Dawn of Hope for Saint and Sinner in the Life to Come By J. H. Paul It. Tue Future STATE OF UNBELIEVERS ORMER established conclusions, quite generally held, as to the supposed fate of unbelievers in the world to come, a few of which were noted in the two previous chapters, have been largely disregarded by the advanced thought of our own time, probably not being held by any considerable number of people today. Yet it is surprising to discover how much of this kind of material our own century presents, most of it, however, dating back from thirty to fifty years. Recent Representations of Future Woe HE late Dr. Gardiner Spring, eminent American divine, draws pictures of the wrath of "'the omnipotent and angry God, who has access to all the avenues of distress in the corporeal frame''—pictures almost as terrible as anything that medieval times can offer. The celebrated John Henry Newman, whose writings have exerted a profound influence on modern thought generally, says of a lost soul that it "is in hell—in the beginning of those torments in which his body will 'soon have part, and which will never die." Mr. Spurgeon, a famous recent writer and preacher, in graphic and fearful sermons, speaks of the torture of the soul to be followed by the un-ending agony of the body: "In fire exactly like that which we have on earth thy body will lie, asbestos-like, forever unconsumed, all thy veins roads for the feet of Pain to travel on, every nerve a string on which the devil shall forever play his diabolical tune of 'Hell's unutterable Lament'." Supposed Fate of Heathens and Infants A° to the supposed fate of the heathen and of infants, Calvin makes the following admission: "That the fall of Adam should involve so many nations with their infant children in eternal death * * * is, I confess, an awful decree," which he yet justifies on the doctrine of divine predestination,— holding that "eternal life is foreordained for some, and_ eternal damnation for others." (Institutes, Book III, 24:12). The Lutheran doctrine teaches that "after the fall of Adam, all men are naturally born in sin; 'that is, born with evil desires; * * * entailing the 'wrath of God and eternal death on all who are not regenerated by baptism," etc. (Augsburg Confession). "This depravity of our nature," writes Mosheim, "although it is involuntary in us and derived from our first parents, is nevertheless imputed to us as sin in the chancellery of heaven. Wherefore, if no other sin were added, we should be exposed to divine punishment, on account of this depravity itself." "To send the gospel to the heathen," said the American Board of Foreign Commissioners for Foreign Missions some fifty years ago, "is a work of great exigency. Within the last thirty years a whole generation of five hundred millions 604 have gone down to eternal death. * * * The heathen are involved in the ruins of the apostasy, and are expressly doomed to perdition. Six hundred million deathless souls on the brink of hell!" "Tn the upshot," says Henry, "it comes to this: that not only fifty thousand go daily, as one missionary from China writes, down to an endless hell, but the great bulk of mankind for the four thousand years before Christ came and for the two thousand years since he came have gone there * * * doomed to abide there forever, for not believing in a Savior they never heard of! "These monstrous notions I have not a moment's hesitation in rejecting; they contradict the eternal principles of righteousness. No tradition, no amount of historical evidence, no authority of any sort, can rightfully establish the divine origin of a religion which propounds to our belief things so absolutely contradictory to reason and conscience. I would sooner be an atheist than accept them. Better a chance-medley universe than one controlled by a Supreme Being capable of creating millions of human creatures with a predetermination to condemn them to everlasting misery." Alarmed at the consequences of the doctrine of endless suffering, several modern sects (the Christadelphians, and others) have arisen which declare that the people who heard not the gospel in this life cannot be judged by it in the hereafter, and shall, therefore, never be resurrected. But this view is a very doubtful improvement on the former belief, since it presents, instead of an endless life in misery, the alternative of endless annihilation in death. Such a choice it would be difficult to make, either condition being about as intolerable as the other, and neither offering any hope to the yearning spirit of every child of the Most High. A Vanishing Theology OING still further back we come upon pictures, today RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE disregarded, of fiendish cruelties inflicted by the wrath of God, drawn by the fancy of Pollok in his "Course of Time," discredited now, the lake of burning fire into which sinful souls are to be plunged, there to burn forever without being consumed; ignored is Bishop Jeremy Taylor's celebrated discourse on "The Pains of Hell;"' discounted are Dr. Isaac Barrow's portrayals of sufferings that transcend the powers of the imagination to conceive. In like manner the frightful energy with which Jonathan Edwards exhibits the supposed torments of the damned; the intense expression that another New England divine, Dr. Samuel Hopkins, has given to the strange idea that the Most High delights in beholding the sight oi the endless agonies of lost souls, and the similar astounding notion that the spectacle will also be "most entertaining" to the saints, affording them "the highest and most ineffable pleasure'"'—these and numerous similar beliefs devoutly held a century or more ago, most men now probably regard as only the fanatical, extreme, and mistaken views of intensely wrought-up religious zealots of past ages—views not held today, perhaps, by any considerable number of Bible students. Views of Early New England Divines PORTRAYALS of the future suffering of unbelievers probably reached their climax among the early Puritans. Biographers say that when the celebrated divine Jonathan Edwards would describe the supposed tortures of lost souls, adding that these torments would continue, "not for one minute, nor for one day, nor for one age, nor THE DAWN OF HOPE for two ages, nor for a hundred ages, nor for ten thousands of millions of ages one after another, but forever and ever, without any end at all," whole congregations, believing, as they did, the truth of every word, would rise to their feet, smiting their breasts, shuddering, and groaning. Puritan preachers of a later period seemed to revel in the idea that the joys of the blessed were to be deepened and sharpened by beholding the sufferings of the doomed. This followed from a theory that "the sense of the opposite misery intensifies the relish of any joy or pleasure”—a shocking notion first put forth, it seems, in the 13th century by St. Thomas Aquinas, who said: "In order that the saints may enjoy their beatitude more richly, a perfect sight of the punishment of the damned is granted to them." "The sight of hell torments," argues Edwards, "will exalt the happiness of the saints forever * * * it will really make their happiness greater * * * will make them prize it more." A Case in Point IN many months ago I stood beside the bier of a friend who, in a moment of insanity, had taken his own life. He had been always a consistent student of nature, and had laid aside a musical career in order that he might improve his mind by learning what he considered to be eternal truths—certain rational, lofty, enduring principles that he had perceived to underlie natural phenomena. He had learned much, imparted much to others; but I felt that he had received far more than he had given. His life seemed, therefore, to be incomplete. For he did not work at religion; 605 perhaps had little faith in it; and the great question, among all who knew him, was this: What, in the life to come, shall be his fate and portion? There was so much more that he yearned to know, so much also that he would have liked to pass on to others. Interrupted here in the very midst of his work, there is so much that he must yet do that it seems to me he ought to go on in that work, that course, for an indefinite future—go on, as we say, forever. Can we indicate the truth of this conclusion? The Goal of Life MOST of us, I suspect, have long since admitted to ourselves that the true aim of life— its goal and purpose—is giving, not receiving; and my friend had received, of light and truth, much more than he had given to the world. What shall he do with this accumulated knowledge, this loading of the ship, that has not yet reached its destination? According to the measuring rod of eternal justice, we shall be rated by what we do for the world, by what we give to others, and not by what the world gives to or does for us. The test is always what we have done to help the rest of mankind. Hence I infer that my friend's great work, in which he will finally measure up to the stature of what he may be and is destined to become, must be looked for at last in the nature and the extent of his service to his fellow men. Why He Must Live On hermit life, his solitary way, coupled with his keen perceptive powers and brilliant mind, mark his as one of those "souls like stars that shine afar in a fellowless 606 firmament." His soul must either shine for others or all its brilliancy will have been in vain. Like Keats, who loved solitude, but who found at last that the reason he would like to live forever was that he might be always in the presence of her whom he loved; so our friend Harry had found friendships an indispensable part of his own life. He and I were friends. Though we rarely met, we were often in spirit together. Occasionally he would phone to me, I to him, to inquire about birds, flowers, trees; or to ask a favor, which each of us knew would be granted before we could voice it. I wish now that I had made occasion to see him oftener; and I cannot think that our comradeship has been forever broken by his death, though he is now out of sight. As in this life we were friends, though separated by wide space, so we are yet friends though separated by a veil that obscures us from each other. This invisible realm, into which he has entered, is very real; "it lies about us like a cloud—a world we do not see; yet the sweet closing of an eye may bring us there to be." He is there, invisible; and I am here; yet, because we are friends, we are together. John W. Foley has thus expressed a real friendship: YOU AND I Just to be a friend of yours And to know you're one of mine, With a friendship that endures, And grows sweeter, like old wine; Just to clasp you by the hand In a friendly sort of way, And to know you understand All the things I want to say. Just to link your arm with mine And go singing to the task,' In a comradeship so fine— This and only this I ask, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE If the day be gray and sad, Just to fight on and go through, Trusting each in each, and glad— You for me and I for you. Just to know you'd come to me, Should I need you, at my call; Just the feeling that should be In the hearts of us—that's all. Just to feel if all beside In the world should prove untrue, I could come then, hopeful-eyed, And be sure of truth from you. Just to feel that you're the sum Of the things in life worth while; Fame and riches go and come, Life's a tear and now a smile; But when all is said and done, When we cast up at the end, Of life's glories there is one Never fading—that's a friend. So, though life is short at best, And we wonder what and why, Here's a toast to pledge with zest: "Friends forever, you and I." Though some days are gray and sad, Just to fight on and go through, And at sunset to be glad, You for me and I for you. As I think of this friend of mine, looking back upon our infrequent meetings to a past, sweet and radiant from his presence and inspiration; so I look forward to the future, filled with promise. He seems still near, though invisible; we are not far apart. The little circle of friends is not really broken, but he is now among those who sit in it unseen, keeping it still complete. That all will yet be well with him, I have no question; that his work will go on to completion seems to me certain. PERPLEXED IN FAITH Perplexed in faith but pure in deeds, At length he rung this music out: There lives more faith in honest doubt, Believe me, than in half the creeds. So wrote Tennyson of the religious uncertainties that troubled his choice friend; and so it is with un- THE DAWN OF HOPE told numbers of people. They want to believe, but encounter many a stumbling block. The idea that they in any way represent lost souls is foreign to the spirit of the New Testament and directly opposed to the views expressly promulgated by Joseph Smith, to whom the fiery furnace of the world to come signified merely the regret, the disappointment, the delay, and the lower stations that apply to those whom the trials of life and the treacheries of men rendered "'slow of heart to believe." In the life to come, they must have a real and impartial opportunity to believe—an opportunity that circumstances denied them here. The Reality of Future Discipline SOME, going to the opposite extreme, say there is no hell; but the 'scripture says, 'The wicked shall be turned into hell, and all the nations that forget God" (Ps. 9:17). Yet the punishment of the wicked, though real and terrible (Alma 40:11, 12, 14), cannot be everlasting; in due time they will be redeemed, some being beaten with few, others with many stripes (Luke 12:47, 48), and each: coming out of the prison (hell) after having paid the uttermost farthing (Matt. 5:26). Of those who enter the kingdom some will be great, others small; some will be rulers over few, others over many cities (Luke 19:12-26); many will be plain citizens. Some shall have the glory of the sun; others, the glory of the moon; others, the glory of the stars (I 'Cor. 15:41, 42), according to every man's work (I Peter, 1:17.; for whatsoever a man soweth, that shall he also reap (Gal. 6:7). All who are capable of spiritual development will be transformed, uplifted and redeemed; and only 607 those incapable of reformation—be they men or devils—shall endure the second death, whatever that may mean; for it is only the "sons of perdition," for whom there is no forgiveness and who must pay the debt themselves. The Sweep of Heaven's Mercy Ve restored gospel offers a salvation as wide as the needs of mankind; a plan that directed our lives and acts in our pre-existent state in heaven, which was our eternal home before we came here and will be after we quit this abode; a gospel that enlightens and guides us while we are on earth, travelers and sojourners in a strange land, as all our fathers were; a mercy that endureth forever, extending beyond the grave into the spirit world to save to the uttermost the sons and daughters of the Most High; a wise and merciful Father, who will continue to deal with us there as he is dealing with us here— truly an Eternal hope, looking to immortality and endless progress, through the Mediator who reconciles the world unto himself, saying, "Come unto me, all ye that labor and are heavy laden." "And whosoever will, let him take the waters of life freely." This, I am inclined to think, is the chief 'contribution of Joseph Smith to the religious thought of the present century. As far as I can find, no word or intimation of these ideas had been published prior to 1830, when first he made them known. In these exalting thoughts, which disclose anew the ultimate sweep of the love and mercy of the Most High, we find again the assurance declared of old by the Hebrew seer: "The eternal God is thy refuge, and underneath are the everlasting arms." The Franchise Its Accomplishments After One Hundred Years By Annie Wells Cannon O stand on the mountain of achievement and look back through the long period of struggle where, always, even through the clouds of disappointment a bright light beckoned the onward way, is indeed a satisfaction and a joy. It was Victor Hugo who said in the early part of the 19th Century "This is the woman's century," yet the century had progressed nearly 30 years before the founding and opening of Oberlin College, when the first real step was taken for the higher education of woman. From Oberlin graduated Lucy Stone whose epic speech that the married woman's epitaph was that she was the relict of John Smith or some other man who had owned her, caused the conversion of Susan B. Anthony, the great leader in the Suffrage cause, who forthwith decided to be no man's "relict"—but to serve womankind in the cause of equal rights. Even prior to this woman suffrage had permeated the old Whig party and in Illinois in 1836 young Abraham Lincoln, the greatest of emancipators, said—"I go for all sharing the privileges of the government, who assist in bearing its burdens, consequently I go for admitting all whites-to the fight of suffrage, who pay taxes or bear arms by no means excluding females." ys we are looking backward it is well to remember that all along the centuries there have been individual women who have been in the lime light of public service; distinguished for their courage, their intellectuality and their genius; women who by right of birth have inherited sovereignty, and proven great leadership; women who, by virtue of unusual talents have names inscribed on history's pages. The fact remains, however, that concerted action for the equality of the sexes and attainment of all the privileges that suffrage might bring, was scarcely begun until the anti-slavery agitation preceding the Civil War. The subject of Woman's Suffrage was a war for equal rights, waged not with sword and cannon, heralded not with fife and drum and marching cohorts, but a war of education, hence all the longer, though in the first years almost as bitter, costing many heart-aches and much sacrifice on the part of its early advocates. While today it may seem amusing to recall the story of Lucretia Mott and Elizabeth Cady Stanton, when in 1840, together with six other women delegates, they were not admitted to have seats in the anti-slave convention in London, but finally, after much deliberation, were permitted to sit behind a drawn curtain and listen to the arguments of the men, at the time it was no light matter, but an incident of the greatest injustice, which incensed the women delegates to action for their own freedom as well as that of the negro. From this incident arose the call for the first suffrage meeting at Seneca Falls, New York, called by some half dozen women led by Lucretia Mott and Mrs. Stanton. The sweet little Quakeress, Mrs. Mott, would have been satisfied THE FRANCHISE simply to advocate rights of education, of property, of possession of children and inheritance. Not so Mrs. Stanton; she knew that suffrage was the fundamental right out of which all others should necessarily flow, and she stood for her declaration of rights, which was none other than The Declaration of Independence, claiming that the women had the same grievances and exactly the same number, 18, against the powers that be—the men—that our fathers had against King George. On this platform and with this resolution, passed at the Seneca Falls convention in 1848 the women of the country have stood and fought their "Cause" throughout the long years. The enthusiasm over the success of the convention was not followed as the women interested had hoped by any immediate successes or advantage for women, but on the contrary there was awakened a spirit of bitterness, ridicule, and opposition. The press from Maine to Louisiana and across the western country made the women advocates of equal rights their chief target and caricatured and libelled them in every way. AT times perhaps somewhat disheartened, but never disarmed, these courageous women carried on. The leading advocates of equal rights were women of exceptional intellectual qualities, women of high ideals, fine education and _ social standing. They realized that woman was the great "unpaid laborer" of the world with no rights until she obtained the right of suffrage. It was a long step from 1848 to 1880, but during that period marvelous changes had taken place in the status of women's affairs. Year after 609 year the workers in the cause in the different states had besought legislative assemblies to amend, annul or enact laws for the betterment of women and children. The old Common Law which had so long been in force in this country and which gave all claims of property and children to the man gradually passed from the statute books. The state of New York was the first in the world that gave to married women the rights of property; other states followed, civil rights by degrees were granted, schools and colleges began to open doors with equal privileges to girls and boys. Women began to enter industry. Here another phase of the question of equality presented itself—equal pay for equal work, a question yet not entirely satisfactory, nor just to the woman worker, though much improved. When the organized struggle began there were no opportunities for women in education or employment, save the village school and factory. _ Now every state university has coeducation and the college bred girl is as often met as the college bred man: every avenue of industry, every profession is opened to her. It is no longer a question of sex, but a question of efficiency and attainment. Women may well look back with pride on the names of women, who under the disadvantages of the past, dared to express themselves along the different lines of achievement. These were the great individual forces leading toward the same general result. Such women as George Sand, Madam de Stael, George Eliot, Charlotte Bronte, Maragaret Fuller, Mrs. Hemans, Elizabeth Barrett Browning, Harriet Hosmer, Rosa Bonheur, Maria Mitchell, Caroline Herschell, Florence Nightingale and Clara Barton, but to the 610 great pioneer suffrage women led by Susan B. Anthony, Elizabeth Cady Stanton, May Wright Sewell, Matilda Jocelyn Gage, and their followers the concerted action was carried through to the victory of the passing of the 19th Amendment, which opened wide the doors for woman's advancement along every line of thought. Education untrammelled has made the world richer in science, literature, art, and those things that make for happiness. Note for instance the change in attitude when the first medical botany was given to the world by Elizabeth Blackwell, a woman physician, her male compeers had her cast into jail for debt. Now in this century the whole world applauded Madam Curie for her discovery and appliance of radium and gave her gifts to enable her to continue her research work. S° it is along every line of endeavor, woman has advanced from a toy in a Turkish harem, from a drudge in the German fields, from a purely social asset in the world of fashion, from a timid and frightened dependent, to an individual personality. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE In social and political science she has attained fine leadership where such names as Jane Addams, Julia Lathrop, Carrie Chapman Catt, claim instant recognition. In the field of art, science, literature, music, the drama, the professions, the courts of justice, legislative halls, athletics, the press, aeronautics are countless names of women that equal, if they do not excel their brother man. That woman today thus tests her endurance, her ingenuity, her attainments on a platform of equality is no reason for thinking that she is less womanly, nor feeling that the home and motherhood will become less her desire and chief delight. With this broader outlook and finer opportunity, will there not be a more comprehensive understanding of the obligations and duties of life. Because there is more justice it need not follow that man is less chivalrous nor woman more masculine, but rather there becomes a finer perception of the qualities of mind and heart wherein all mankind join hands for good fellowship and a better world. Who? Hers a Martha's hand to serve Hers a Mary's heart to love Hers to gild the clouds of gloom Hers to build beyond the tomb. —G. H. Brimhall.* *These lines were suggested while attending the funeral of the late W. A. Morton and listening to the splendid eulogy given the wonderful wife. Since this verse has general application to the women whose name is "Legion" in the world, we are pleased to present it to our readers. Women in Modern Education By Alice Louise Reynolds U is common knowledge that the majority of teachers in the elementary and high schools of the United States are women. Important as this work is, often calling for training of a very high order, it is not the purpose of this article to deal with any phase of secondary education, but with women in higher education, chiefly as it affects the United States. In the first place, most colleges at the present time have one or more women on their faculties who have obtained the doctorate. Women with a doctorate were comparatively few or unknown only a short time ago; but now they form a rather large group, particularly in the United States. As examples of women having doctor's degrees on our college faculties, we cite: Myra Reynolds and M. Edith Rickert, both well known on the faculty of the University of Chicago. In our own State, we have Dr. Dorothy Nyswander Stewart of the faculty of the University of Utah; also, we recall that the University of Utah gave California Dr. Georgia Borg Johnson. Many, last winter, were interested in Dr. Lucy Lockwood Hazard, a member of the faculty of St. Mary-of-the-Wasatch, who gave a series of lectures on modern literature under the extension division of the University of Utah. Before the advent of these women, Dr. Philena Fletcher Homer served on the faculty of Brigham Young University. Our neighboring State, Idaho, lists Dr. Ella Wood on the faculty of the University of Idaho. There in her laboratory at Moscow she does research work relative to vitamin C, scurvy, and other matters of interest and importance. LL this, of course, indicates that women have been doing graduate work, which is entirely true, as graduate courses at practically all colleges have very large numbers of women at present. Women holding Master's degrees are a legion. One thing particularly interesting in this matter is that a number of colleges that do not admit women for undergraduate work, admit them into graduate courses. For instance, Yale University that has always been a man's college, allows women to do graduate work. Dr. Aurelia Reinhardt, president of Mills College, California, did her graduate work in that institution. WE have a group of women in the United States prominent in science. Among these are Maria Mitchel (dead), Annie J. Cannon, Florence R. Sabin, and Alice Hamilton. Florence Rena Sabin, an M. D., is a member of the faculty of Johns Hopkins University. Alice Hamilton, like Florence Sabin, is a physician, and has served on the faculty of a number of universities. She is at present on the faculty of Harvard University.. Annie J. Cannon is a noted astronomer. She has the reputation of having discovered three hundred variable stars and five new ones. She has completed a catalog with 225,000 stars which fills nine quarto volumes of the annals, all of which are published, and still she continues to catalog. 612 To w have a group of women who head colleges in the United States. Prominent among these are Dr. Aurelia H. Reinhardt, president of Mills College; Dr. Katharine Blunt of Connecticut College, New London, Connecticut, who assumed her duties a year ago; Ada Louise Comstock, president of Radcliffe College since 1923, who has received from Mt. Holyoke, Michigan, and Smith, an honorary doctor's degree. Other college presidents, some of whom have doctor's degrees, are: Mary E. Woolley, president of Mt. Holyoke College; Marion Edwards Park, president of Bryn Mawr College, and Ellen F. Pendleton, president of Wellesley College. About fourteen or fifteen years ago the National Education Association adopted a policy of electing a woman for their president every other year. All parts of the country have been represented. From the West we have had Josephine Preston, who was State Superintendent of Public Instruction in the State of Washington; from the extreme East, Mary McSkimmon of Massachusetts, for many years president of the Massachusetts Federation of Teachers; Charl Williams of Tennessee; while the recent meeting at Columbus, Ohio, was presided over by Ruth Pyrtle of Nebraska. A fairly large group of women have received the honorary degree of Doctor of Philosophy or Doctor of Letters. Some of these people are college presidents, some, members of college faculties; but within RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE recent years the policy has been extended. Due to President Glen Frank of the University of Wisconsin, a different group has been recognized. Whether Mr. Frank took a leaf out of an English book is not known, but this much is true: that in 1922 Queen Mary of England received an honorary doctor's degree at the University of Aberdeen; and later, something over four years ago, Sybil Thorndike, distinguished London actress who had played the role of Joan in George Bernard Shaw's Saint Joan, received a doctor's degree from the University of Edinburgh. Very possibly, following this good example, the University of Wisconsin conferred honorary degrees on Maude Adams and Minnie Madden Fisk in 1928. The next year, Mrs. William L. Breeze, known in the field of letters as Zona Gale,- received the degree of Doctor of Letters from Wisconsin. The ceremony, that gave to America's two great actresses and a well known writer the honor of Doctor of Letters, was distinguished in the highest sense of the word. Few persons possess the literary ability of President Frank, and in writing cameos, or the presentation speech for degrees, he is at his best. In June, 1929, Smith College conferred the degree of Doctor of Philosophy on Mrs. Calvin Coolidge. 'So far as we know, Mrs. Coolidge is the first wife of a President of the United States to receive the honorary doctor's degree from any college. Smith was her alma mater. Such work is trail-blazing of a very high and -worthy character. What the Woman's Movement Means to the World By H, C, Singer IN most countries except France women have attained the franchise; and now their vision is wider and varied, although constantly to the fore is the incessant demand for equality. From national issues women turned to international problems and their solutions. Even in countries where the franchise has not been given to woman and gross inequality in the law still prevails, the struggle is not alone with national problems; organization now tends toward international cooperation, keeping, however, to the main element in hand—equality. Women Organize in all Countries Despite the varied religions of Europe, some holding the poor conception of woman as a chattel, we find women there organizing to maintain their rights. Christian or Moslem, the movement is definitely striving to place woman where she should be, at least as man's equal. Women of the United States, with its varied races and creeds, Canada with her modern and ancient ideas, and Southern American Republics whose theology is rooted deep in the soil of antiquity—all combine to demand equality in the vast struggle. IT has required years of long, hard work to educate, persuade, and thrust the ranks of womanhood along the road to reach the basis (the vote) from which a concerted effort could be made to the goal, equality. Even in Canada the old idea of chattel contrasts vigorously with the modern growth and theory of equality; in the varied States of our nation attempts have been made to retain and preserve the ancient statutes that had their origin in French, Spanish, and British laws, and were founded on the old idea of woman as a chattel. In South America, despite the ancient theory and French and Spanish laws regarding the status of woman and the absence of sex legislation, the native conception of the superiority of womanhood seems to have had a decided effect. Both in Great Britain and in the United States the conception of woman's rights now tends towards equality, although in the latter country a strong obstacle still exists among the women's ranks against equality because of varied state laws. France still refuses to grant her women franchise (and very few women are even concerned about it), while Great Britain still in many ways denies her women equality; and Argentina only a few years ago gave woman absolute equality in civil rights. Two Groups in the Movement it has been common of late years to look on all women's organizations or groups as part of the movement; and while this view is but natural, it is, of course, erroneous. While there exists a unity of aim in the movement, there is naturally a diversity in the method of reaching the common goal. Most groups in Great Britain are organized for professional rather than political reasons, although seeking through their associations the removal of 614 discriminating laws in their vocations and professions. In Canada, the United States and the Southern Americas, because of the vast size of each country, the organizations 'are formed on a geographical basis rather than on unity of thought as in Great Britain and Europe. As with all organizations, the movement breaks into right and left wings. In the geographical groupings it is but natural to find a diversity of opinions; and in the last few years matters have virtually come to a head in the two groups named "The International Alliance for Suffrage and Equal Citizenship" and the 'International Council of Women." In the past all efforts were directed towards safeguarding and promoting the peace of the world. It was believed by the officials of certain organizations that women's efforts and duties lay in social reform, while an opposite group contended that the aims of suffrage and equal citizenship should receive the major portion of their efforts, social reform to be considered when the goal of equality had been achieved. Thus the two wings in Great Britain are called "Feminist" and "Social Reformers." In the United States the two wings stand respectively for equality and for a wide social reform program. Far-Reaching Results Certain Concerted as these efforts are throughout the world, they must be productive of far-reaching results. In some countries suffrage came easily; in others, only after a long and bitter fight, For over fifty years the struggle continued, education being the sole weapon in France, Great Britain, Canada and U. S. The action in Great Britain and the United States at last passed to the left wing, which became RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE militant and aggressive. The first objective of the franchise was quickly won; but in Canada and France educational methods still prevail. SINCE the close of the Great War, the left wing has gained in vitality. Women's zest for the authority they tasted during the hectic days of war, lures them on in the movement. No longer timid and resigned in their desires "that something be done" in matters in which they are interested, but now active and energetic they demand that the authority to which they address themselves shall answer for its responsibility in the matter. Through the last ten years, international. Conferences of women have been held, but the active, vital, and energetic force—the left wing —has abstained from attending them, and has been content to swing into action, militantly, as the time and circumstances have demanded. At present the movement's eyes are turned towards the League of Nations, whose clause that 'All positions under or in connection with the League, including the Secretariat, shall be equally open to men and women," has been ignored, since women hold only substitute and minor positions in the League and its activities. Important posts are held exclusively by men, who predominate on committees and commissions until the lone female member feels. But a small cog in a big machine. Consequently the movement feels that in matters relating to women and children women are not treated as men's equal, and are discriminated against in international legislation in a most flagrant manner. Particularly is this true in the fields of employment, where women are now being considered as competitors. It is but fair, however, to point out that the League WHAT THE WOMAN'S MOVEMENT MEANS Committee on the Traffic of Women and Children is composed of an equal number of men and women. With this exception the high posts are held by men. It is not to be marvelled at, that under the experiences which the movement has undergone in the past, the active and energetic left wing should jealously guard the victories it has achieved. No woman without the necessary qualifications shall represent their members in any deliberations; and in matters concerning woman, they fully intend that the wishes of women shall receive due consideration and be fairly valued. Since the four United States women, at the invitation of South American women, went down to Havana in 1928 to the Sixth Pan American Conference and there presented an Equal Rights Treaty, the left wing has swung to the fore. Their object in the presentation of. The Treaty failed; but from their action grew an inter-American Commission of Women to study political and civil equality of the women of the continent. Simultaneously with the American women's action, an English woman, Elizabeth Abbott, a foremost feminist of her country, was appointed as delegate to the International Labor Organization during the minimum-wage discussion in Geneva; there she represented not only 615 England but several European nations, and did very valuable work. Already legal experts among women are gathering material to present before the Commission of Jurists for Codification of the International Law at the Hague in 1929. It is their object to obtain a world wide expression in the matter. They hold that nationality shall not be affected by marriage and are against the inclusion of inequality in any international code. It is clear that in Europe the sum and essence of all actions by these movements is to obtain equality; but because of various State laws, this is not realized in the United States. In all countries, however, the desire is that women shall not, because of sex, be prohibited, excluded or restricted; and that no legislation that has a sex basis shall continue to exist. Sex, it is claimed, is a private and not a public matter, and women of the movement everywhere desire further to enjoy life by exercising their rights of citizenship, and bearing its necessary burdens free from legislative sex distinctions. No longer do women in far off lands feel alone in their struggle. The years have drawn them together internationally. Now they view each other's struggles with sympathy, and gain encourage woman is nothing but a chattel. Ment from enfranchised countries that are no longer under the oppression of the ancient theory that When I Was Young By Bertha A. Kleinman I knew a lot when I was young, And grew so slow apace, It seemed a year from sun to sun And leagues from place to place; And now the days are all too few— I know not why nor how, I only know in things I do, I know so little now. I said a lot when I was young, And thought it wordly-wise, For I was free and glib of tongue And quick to criticize; And now I listen most and weigh. And ponder and recall, And things that others do and say I judge them not at all. I dreamed a lot when I was young, And watched my ladder soar. A castle reared at every rung— Was all my days were for; And now I live the after theme When days of duty irk, And all the things I used to dream Today are work—just work. How Much? By Grace C. Jacobsen How much a little smile will do! A kindly look, a word or two, Will often make the day more fair Or thrust us into deep despair, And make skies gloomy, dark and blue. Smiles cost so little—mean so much! Reach human sympathies and touch To those we meet in passing by; What we could do if we'd but try. To ease their sorrow and their sigh. © There's many ways along life's road To help each other lift the load That sometimes seems so hard to bear— But somehow we don't seem to care, Till we ourselves are in its goad. I wonder when that time will be When we with clearer vision see That happiness is found in things That warm the heart until it sings With joyous hope and charity! Love's Largess By Minnie I. Hodapp Could I repay the love I owe— These very thistles "neath my feet, Would soften into blossom-glow Like dewy roses fresh and sweet. Could I repay the love I owe To each true friend—the last, the first, A nameless joy my life should know With righteousness of soul athirst. Could I repay the love I owe, And start anew with conscience clear— Diviner airs would round me blow Celestial atmosphere! Could I repay the love I owe— A song of gratitude sublime, Straight from my inner heart would flow Through all the golden sands of time. Could I repay the love I owe— Thou gentle, trusting Saviour mine, I'd glorify Thy name below, And prove myself forever thine! Notes from the Field Liberty Stake: A PROJECT of which Liberty Stake Relief Society may well be proud is the undertaking and completing of a course in Effective Speaking by nearly 100 Relief Society women. The work was conducted during the summer weeks by Claire Stewart Boyer, and was arranged to meet the needs of the women in Relief Society work, particularly the officers and class leaders. The aim of the course was to assist members in conducting meetings with dispatch and giving lessons respectively, and in preparing and delivering every type of speech given in Church meetings, from the formal announcement to the finished address. The teacher was particularly well pleased with the result accomplished by the class members. The women are certainly to be congratulated for entertaining such worthy ambitions and conducting the project with such enthusiasm and persistence. | Sa is not the only form of activity which is flourishing in this enterprising Stake. The 10th Ward Relief Society was responsible for the presentation of two very clever little plays written especially for the occasion by the class leaders —the literary play, writer by Sister Ella M. Ipson, and a social service play by Mrs. Chloe H. Clegg. There were 34 participants in the two plays which offered a most delightful evening's entertainment. Great success both financially and socially. Many new members for the organization were recruited and it was also a most excellent way of putting the work before the people of the ward. The plays were under It was a the direction of Sister Ethel S. Anderson and Sister Aliceile Higgs. Bannock Stake. VERY successful visiting teacher's convention was held in Grace, Idaho, on August 12th. There were 91 officers and teachers present. Each of the wards gave certain parts on the program. These consisted of talks, papers, musical selections and a demonstration of the correct and incorrect way of teaching. The Stake President was in attendance; also the Advisory High Council and some of the Bishops. The house was decorated with cut flowers, and refreshments were served following the program. Everyone was enthusiastic in making the event a success. The summer meetings throughout Bannock Stake have been very successful in most of the wards. The department meetings have been well attended. There is much enthusiasm over the literary, as well as the social service work. North Sanpete Stake: DR HE North Sanpete Stake Relief Society sent in a most excellent outline, headed (by the following resolution: That we resolve that through organization, dependability, and true cooperation we aim to hold twelve Work and Business Meetings that will bring more tangible results than ever before. Organization: I. Second counselor in charge of work, assisted by supervisors of— A. Quilts. B. Rugs. C. Darning. D. Needle Work. 618 E. Plain Sewing (Counselor may be in charge). F. Renovation. II. The supervisors should have work at each meeting and work in their respective groups with all materials necessary for their progress. A. The projects begun in one meeting if not finished, should be carried over and finished at the next meeting. B. We recommend that individuals work in the same group each succeeding meeting, unless for some good reason they desire to make a change and consult the Supervisor. III. Suggestive order or program of meeting. Refer to recommendations from the General Board— page 3. IV. Source of work and importance and responsibility of the work meeting. Refer to instructions of the General Board, pages 1 and 2. V. The Ward Work Committee should meet with the executive group during Sept. To outline the year's program of Work Meetings. A. A meeting of the committee should be held on Wednesday after the regular Work and Business Meeting to plan the next meeting's work, B. A second meeting of the committee should be held on Wednesday following the Theology Meeting to check up on all details and have everything in perfect readiness previous to the regular work and Business Meeting on the second Tuesday of the month. VI. Suggestions given from General Board, April, 1930. A. Every member of the Relief Society should be willing to contribute each year one or two articles either new or remodeled to the organization for those in need. B. As long as a Relief Society RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE exists in our wards no child should go to school improperly dressed or freeze during the winter for lack of bedding. Old articles might be donated and with preparation by the committee before meeting be a part of the Work meeting activity. C. Suggested list of articles: Bloomers, underwear, aprons, night clothes, dresses, coats, caps, trousers, waists, shirts, towels, table cloths, napkins, pillowslips, sheets, wash cloths, baby clothes, blankets, house dresses, any articles used in the home. D. Discourage public showers for the expectant mother; help her in a quiet way. The saying: "Let not thy right hand knew what the left hand doeth," is always the policy of the Relief Society. E. Use demonstrations where trained workers come into the community or where high school classes can be invited to give instructions in household arts—decorations, sewing, or cooking. F. If the work supervisor thinks her job a difficult one or too big a job, give her something else to do. The interest of the work meeting is measured by the degree of interest the leader puts into her work.. G. Have everything planned so there is no delay in work and varieties of work supervised by real live workers with ample material to keep everybody busy. VII. Suggestive Special Meetings for the year: Meeting for December— Books and gifts for children.. Christmas candies that children can make. Special Christmas foods. Ref. 1928-29 outline. Meeting for March— Planting and Beautification. Porch boxes, seeds, shrubs, bulbs, etc. NOTES FROM THE FIELD This meeting is not too early if any good is to be derived. Meeting for May— Making of paper flowers or suggestion for Memorial Day— planting, clean-up, etc. Meeting for August— Orange sale, Bazaar, demonstration-of work done, etc. Cooperate with other organizations, the Civic League, the Primary, and make the day a real. Ward entertainment day. It has been said—'"The poor are always with us" and again, ""Where there is no vision the people perish." Let us care for the needy as only Relief Society officers can and pride themselves on so doing. May we see the problems, anticipate the needs and raise the temporal welfare, the spiritual attitude and bring just a little more sunshine and happiness into this wonderful world of ours. Hyrum Stake: HE officers and teachers of the Hyrum Stake Relief Society, 619 about 300 in number, enjoyed another of their annual social gatherings; the Relief Society Stake Board entertaining, Thursday, August 21st, 1930, in the Third Ward Recreational Hall. A most excellent program was given. President Lola L. Christensen presided, and Sister Winnie Clawson had charge of the program. Work done by the Relief Society sisters of the different wards in their Work and Business Meetings during the past year made a most attractive display. Delicious refreshments were served and in these the color scheme of red and white was carried out. A bouquet of flowers was presented to the following sisters: The oldest Relief Society sister present, the mother having the largest family, all former Stake Board members, the Ward President who had been in service the greatest number of years, and the oldest visiting ward teacher. It was in all a most delightful entertainment. Photo by Hileman. WATERTON LAKE, GLACIER NATIONAL PARK THE RELIEF SOCIETY OF THE CHURCH OF JESUS CHRIST OF LATTER-DAY SAINTS Motto—Charity Never Faitleth THE GENERAL BOARD MRS. LOUISE YATES ROBISON MRS. AMY BROWN LYMAN... MRS. JULIA ALLEMAN CHILD MRS. JULIA A. F. LUND Mrs. Emma A. Empey Miss Sarah M. McLelland Mrs. Mrs. Amy Whipple 'Evans Ethel Reynolds Smith President First Counselor - - - Second Counselor General Secretary and Treasurer Mrs. Ida P. Beal Mrs. Kate M. Barker Mrs., Annie Wells Cannon Mrs. Rosannah C. Irvine Mrs. Marcia K. Howells Mrs. Jennie B. Knight Mrs. Nettie D. Bradford Mrs. Hazel H. Greenwood Mrs. Lalene H. Hart Mrs. Elise B: Alder Mrs. Emeline Y. Nebeker Mrs. Lotta Paul Baxter Mrs. Inez K. Allen Mrs. Mary Connelly Kimball Mrs. Cora L. Bennion Mrs. Lizzie Thomas Edward, Music Director Editor - o - - - Manager - - - - 5 = A Assistant Manager - - Room 20, Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Mary Connelly KIMBALL - - - Louise Y. Robison Amy Brown Lyman Magazine entered as second-class matter at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah VOL. XVII NOVEMBER, 1930 No. 11 EDITORIAL The Swing of the Pendulum ACK and forth swings the pendulum from one extreme to the other and in between the extremes is the happy mean, Thus history repeats itself again and again. For ages women were held down. They had no rights. They could be treated inhumanly and men were sustained before the law in brutality and injustice. Philosophers debated whether or not women have souls. Euripides reflected Greek sentiment when he had Iphigenia say to Achilles, "Better a thousand women should perish than one man cease to see the light." The Romans thought that woman had lived well who had kept herself well concealed. Buddhism teaches that woman's only hope of heaven is that she may be reincarnated as a man. Confucius affirmed that ten daughters do not equal the value of one son. The Brahmin woman is forbidden to read the scriptures or to offer prayer in her own right. The Moslem prays, "O God, I thank thee that thou hast not made me a woman," and well 'he may since he considers her as flesh without a soul. HRISTIANITY of all the great religions has proven the salvation of women. The Christ raised woman to be equal with man. But his followers were not big enough to walk where he led, and so the early church accepted the old idea regarding women and added the thought that woman was subject by order of God's will and since she had brought sin into the world she should be willing to spend her time in penitence and in obedience to the more virtuous sex. EDITORIAL For centuries civil law, church dogma, traditional custom combined to enforce rigidly the belief that males possessed the inalienable right to govern the home, the church and the state and that females owed to men the duty of obedience and submission. At the beginning of 1800 the civil and legal status of women was practically the same as it had been for several preceding centuries. Great Britain and the United States were under the Common Law, which considered the husband and wife to be one, and the man was the one. Few occupations were open to women and it was thought disgraceful for those in the upper or middle classes to earn money. The unmarried women of these classes, called "old maids," were dependents in the homes of their nearest male relatives. Even when they had property they were pitied as never having had a chance and regarded as derelicts. The church, with but few exceptions, did not give women the right to either sing, speak, pray, or vote in church assemblies. It was considered improper for a woman to be seen on a business street without being accompanied by a male or to go to. A bank to transact business unattended. Hotels would not accept a woman as a guest Unless a man was with her. There were no high schools for girls and no college admitted women. The opposition to learned women was strong, the most hostile opponents, strange to say, being ministers, writers and scholars. They considered women mentally inferior and thought the poor had no need of instruction. "It is not seemly," they said, "for many reasons that a woman should study and know so many things because forsooth serious studies do not comport with a woman's sex.' 621 Lord Chesterfield thus characterized women: "Women are only children of a larger growth; they have an entertaining tattle, sometimes wit; but, for solid reasoning, good sense, I never in my life knew one who had it or who reasoned or acted consequentially for twenty-four hours together. * * * * A man of sense only trifles with them, flatters them as he does a sprightly forward child; but he neither consults them about nor trusts them with serious matters, though he often makes them believe he does both which is the thing in the world which they are proud of; for they love mightily to be dabbling in business, which by the way, they always spoil, and being distrustful that men in general look upon them in a trifling light, they almost adore that man who talks to them seriously and seems to consult and trust them." Rousseau's philosophy still held at the beginning of the nineteenth century— "The education of women should always be relative to that of man. To please us, to be useful to us, to make us love and esteem them, to educate us when young, to take care of us when grown up, to advise us, to console us, to render our lives easy and agreeable; these are the duties of women at all times and what they should be taught from their infancy." Then came the dawning of a brighter day for women. A new attitude toward women is shown in these words, uttered by Joseph Smith in 1842, when he organized the Relief Society: "This charitable society is according to your natures, it is natural for females to have feelings of charity. You are now placed in a situation where you can act according to these sympathies which God has planted in your bosoms. If you live up to these principles how great and glorious! If you live up to your privileges the angels cannot be restrained from being your associates. * * * This Society is not only to relieve the poor but to save souls. * * * And I now turn the key to you in the name of God, and this Society shall rejoice, and knowledge and intelligence shall flow down from this time. This is the beginning of better days to this Society." 622 The officials of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints have always given women an important part in Church activities and they have voted in church elections. From 1842 until now women have steadily moved forward until today they have equal educational opportunities with men, before the law they are often given greater advantages and consideration; they vote; and they have gained the opportunity to enter almost any gainful employment and are in some cases receiving equal pay for equal work, Some have been unmindful of the opportunities that are theirs and have let golden chances for service' slip by. Many women have become intoxicated in the rush of rights and privileges accorded to them and have lost their balance. They affirm that they have a right to do whatever men do. He smokes, so will they. He drinks, they join him in his Bacchus' orgies. He gambles, they out-do him in the games of chance. They scoff at religion and ridicule those who hold to old standards. Homes and children are to them passe. Public life, bright lights, the gay whirl—these lure them from home and quietude and peace and culture.. Such women have made sorry spectacles of themselves. Instead of being refining influences they have become coarser and louder than men. Thinkers are asking, Whither? What are we coming to? What will be the result if we continue as we are going? F ORTUNATELY the pendulum has swung to the extreme and must now begin its return. There is a reaction against the lengths to which many women have gone. The "ultra-modern" tendencies are RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE giving place to virtuous and respectable and sane ones. But through the years of their emancipation the majority of women have kept their equilibrium. They have realized that God made men and women complements to each other, 'not like to like but like in difference,' one supplying what the other lacked. They have kept in mind that wifehood and motherhood today as always offer to women their highest opportunity for service, their greatest avenues for development, their greatest sources of joy. Because of the development that has come through the greater freedom women have enjoyed during the last few years they are better wives, more congenial help meets more understanding companions. And in the years to come we hope to see men and women enter into each others' strivings and problems with more sympathetic interest and understanding for: "The evolution of the race will be complete only when men and women shall be associated in perfect unity of purpose, and shall in fullest sympathy collaborate for the attainment of the highest and the best." Then will Tennyson's vision become reality: "The man be more of woman, she of man; He gain in sweetness and in moral height, Nor lose the wrestling thews that throw the world; She mental breadth, nor fail in childward care, Nor lose the childlike in the larger mind, Till at the last she set herself to man, Like perfect music unto noble words; And so these twain, upon the skirts of Time, Sit side by side, full-summ'd in all their powers, Dispensing harvest, sowing the to-be, Self-reverent each and reverencing each, Distinct in individualities, But like each other even as those who love. Then comes the statelier Eden back to men; EDITORIAL Then reign the world's great bridals, chaste, and calm; 623 Then springs the crowning race of humankind." Are We Grateful? NOVEMBER, bringing to us a special day for thanksgiving, makes us pause to consider how many things we have to be thankful for and arouses in our minds the question, Are we grateful? Are we satisfied by merely thanking our Father in words for his bounties to us or do we ponder as did one of old and ask, "What shall I render unto the Lord for all His goodness unto me?" If we do we realize that the most acceptable gratitude is shown in service. 'Words of thanks are good, deeds of thanks are better. 'Inasmuch as ye have done it unto one of the least of these my little ones, Ye have done it unto me,' said the Master, and as a mark of their love for him he urged, "Feed my sheep." Are we grateful for life? If so, then we will endeavor to understand its purpose and take advantage of the possibilities it offers to make it richer, fuller and more purposeful. Do we thrill at the thought of eternal progression? Then will we eagerly learn and seize each opportunity offered for development. Are we grateful for the Gospel of Jesus Christ? Then will we live it and bask in its liberty, poise, vision, and in our own lives realize its enlarging and emancipating powers. Are we grateful for America and what it stands for? Then will we be loyal to its laws. Do we appreciate our homes in this favored land? If so, we will keep them clean, orderly, fit abiding places for peace and harmony and good will. Are we grateful for food and clothing? If so, we will be careful, not extravagant; saving, not wasteful. Do we value our friends? If we do, we will so treat them that the bond of love shall grow stronger. Do we appreciate books to read, beautiful things to see, elevating words to hear? If so, we will read and look and listen in such a way that culture will come to us. Do we appreciate health? If so. We will live the laws of health and thus continuing to enjoy vigor of body and clearness of mind. Night By Weston N. Nordgran Dusk darkens down; swift night descends; Small breezes rest. * * * And all is peace! Silently on high, the heavens Wake the light within the stars— And the Milky Way is spangled With soft shifting lights and bars! There is something very mystic In the atmosphere tonight— And I feel that God is near me, On His evenings earthly flight! Guide Lessons for January, 1931 LESSON I Theology and Testimony (First Week in January) Book or Mormon—Lesson IV—NEPHI, SON OF HELAMAN This lesson covers the matter in the "Book of Helaman," from chapter 1 to chapter 12, inclusive. The time is the years between B. C. 52 and B. C. 6—forty-six years in all. In terms of the reign of the judges it would be the years lying between 40 and 86. It is a period filled with the most dramatic events, sharp contrasts, and the activities of one towering figure—Nephi, the son of Helaman. There is very little doctrine in the account, and that is more by way of comment on the part of Mormon, who abridges the larger history.
The Story
The story opens with a contest between three of Pahoran's sons for the chief judgeship — Pahoran, Paanchi, and Pacumeni. Pahoran is elected. Presently, however, he is murdered by a man named Kishkumen, one of a gang of outlaws. He is succeeded by his brother, Pacumeni. Then there is trouble with the Lamanites. It happens that a certain Coriantumr has defected from the Nephites to the Lamanites. Down there in the south he awakens the sleeping enmities of those people for their northern neighbors. At the head of a very large force of Lamanites he conducts a quick march into the center of Nephite territory, taking the chief town, Zarahemla. This surprises Moronihah, who has strongly fortified the border cities, under the impression that no enemy will attack the capital. Pacumeni, the chief judge, in an effort to escape from Coriantumr's force, is killed. In the end, however, the Nephites win; they characteristically allow their enemies to make a peaceful retreat. Coriantumr dies in one of the battles. Helaman the Second becomes chief judge.
And now there arises among the Nephites one of the factors that bring about their destruction—the Gadianton robbers. These thrive on the loose morals that grow up in this fickle nation. Also a large emigration to the north takes place at this time. At the death of Helaman the Second, his son Nephi becomes chief judge. He is the outstanding character in the period. But he does not serve in this capacity for long, on account of the degeneration of the people; he "yields" his seat to Cezoram, a man of evil tendencies. Cezoram has been chosen by a majority of the same mind as himself. But his reign is short, for he is murdered by an unknown hand. His son succeeds him, but he has an even shorter reign, he too being murdered. The chief judgeship then gets into the hands of a man named Seezoram. But Seezoram, too, is killed by his own brother. Gadianton's spirit rules in the affairs of the Nephite nation, and government is run for the benefit of the rich and influential.
GUIDE LESSONS FOR JANUARY
Meanwhile, Nephi, with his brother Lehi, throws himself with energy and earnestness into religious work. He visits the Nephite population first and then the Nephite cities still in the hands of the Lamanites. He meets with considerable success. By the Lamanites in their own territory, he is imprisoned; but after a miracle of the most unusual kind, he converts almost the entire nation. From now on to the end of our present lesson we have a reversal in position of the Nephites and the Lamanites. The latter are the more righteous; the former, on the whole, go from bad to worse. Nephi is granted power by the Lord such as we read of in no other person—the power to command the elements, to bring on famine, and other prerogatives. But always he uses this power with great discretion. The center of his interest all the time is of human welfare, not self-aggrandizement.
NOTES
1. Secret Combinations: As stated in the text of the lesson, one of the things that led to the ultimate overthrow of the Nephite nation was the Gadianton robbers, a band of "lawless resolutes." Says Mormon, speaking when that overthrow was all but accomplished, "And behold, in the end of this book ye shall see that this Gadianton did prove the overthrow, yea, almost the entire destruction of the people of Nephi." He means the end of his record, the Book of Mormon. The heart, the moving motive, of this secret organization was selfishness as against service. Of course, selfishness by the members of this order could best be promoted by getting power into their hands. Hence the chief political places were the object of their desires. And political offices once in their hands, they turned all the machinery of government to their own uses. Naturally, as power gravitated to the secret order, with its secret signs and covenants, its membership increased. For it appears to be a common human trait for us to want to be in favor with those who have power. And so it gradually came about that the majority of the Nephite people belonged, one way or another, to this secret combination. And as naturally, under this regime, robbery, murder, sex sins, oppression, were the order of the times. Never before in Nephite history was there such moral and political chaos. There was to be another such period, and on an even larger scale; but that was when the end of the nation was in sight. And Mormon attributes the situation to this secret organization. No wonder the Nephite Record declares secret combinations to be of the devil.
2. The Eternal Circle: No people in the history of the world, of whom we have any record, were more "swift to do evil" as the Nephites, or more unstable in their adherence to the principles of individual and national growth. All thoughtful readers of the Book of Mormon have observed this fact. The late George Reynolds, perhaps the greatest student of the Nephite Record we have had thus far, says this of the period we are now considering: "Peace brought stability, stability brought wealth, wealth engendered pride, pride gave birth to numerous sins, to be followed by contentions, dissensions, and then wars. These evils begat sorrow, sorrow softened their heart to repentance, repentance was followed by the blessing of God, which again brought peace, prosperity, and, by-and-by, riches. And at this era of Nephite national life, this is the one eternal round which their inspired historians are compelled to chronicle.
"Within four short years of the happy time of universal peace we have just referred to, the riches of the world had induced stubbornness and rebellion towards God, combined with the insane desire to rob, plunder, and murder their fellowmen. If there ever were a people swift to do evil, they were the Nephites of that generation."
3. Emigrations: During the spell of peace that came after the war with the Lamanites, there was an emigration of both the Nephites and the Lamanites. They went into the "land northward," we are told. It is the second emigration of which the Book of Mormon speaks, the one in which the shipbuilder Hagoth took a prominent part, being the first one. One of the reasons for this movement, no doubt, was the occupancy of some of the Nephite cities by the Lamanites. "Now the land south," says Mormon, "was called Lehi, and the land north was called Mulek, which was after the son of Zedekiah; for the Lord did bring Mulek into the land north, and Lehi into the land south." This was one of the rare periods in ancient America when, in the language of the historian, every man and woman could "go into whatsoever part of the land they would, whether among the Nephites or the Lamanites," with perfect security. Thus the people had "free intercourse with one another," buying and selling "to get gain;" they farmed and built and mined in peace. And thus they grew rich—and started off again on the same old segment of the "eternal round" of which Elder Reynolds speaks.
4. Mormon's Comment: Care must be exercised, in this lesson particularly, to distinguish between what Mormon says in his capacity of abridger of the records before him and what he says in his capacity of prophet or philosopher. Once in a while he interjects a comment on what he is setting down as a historian. Such are the passages found in the third chapter of Helaman, verses 13 to 16, where he tells of the numerous records of the people who went into the "land northward," and the whole of the twelfth chapter of the same book, where he speaks of human frailty and unsteadiness in serving God. In chapter six also there is one of these interruptions of the narrative. See if you can pick it out. Not that these are unimportant. They are important, as a matter of fact, from two points of view. First, they are valuable in themselves. They state clearly the leadings and tendencies among nations, and in the language of a man who is looking at them in the light of their results. In a sense they are fingerposts along the highway of life and are intended as such to those who may not know the way. And, secondly, they furnish us with a bit of evidence of the divine origin of the Book of Mormon; for they are consistent with the theory that the Nephite Record is an abridgment by the prophet Mormon, and not an original composition by Joseph Smith.
5. The Prophet Nephi: This man is one of the most extraordinary characters in human history. He is unusual, first, in the almost unlimited power he is given by the Lord. "Behold, thou art Nephi," he is told, "and I am God. I declare unto thee in the presence of mine angels that ye shall have power over this people." This power enabled him to smite the earth with famine, pestilence, and destruction, according to the wickedness of the people; to seal and unloose in heaven and on the earth; to rend the temple in twain; to cast down mountains; to smite the people. It was a power such as, if we are correctly informed, has never been granted any other man. And Nephi was unusual, secondly, in the use he made of this exceptional power. Always men love power. This seems to be a fundamental trait in human nature. But not always do they use this power to the best advantage—that is, for human welfare, the welfare of others. Nephi, however, employs it only when he can save men, never merely for his own advancement. This is a remarkable fact. Also he does not make a display of his power. When the wickedness of the people reaches a point where they are threatened with destruction at the hands of one another in internal strife, he prays for the Lord to send a famine. He knows that will end the war and bring the people to repentance—as indeed it does.
Questions and Problems
1. How do you account for the superior steadfastness of the Lamanites, once they are converted?
2. Explain why the use of his extraordinary power by Nephi is so noteworthy. Call to mind in history generally the ways in which large power has been used by men. When is power a good thing? When a bad thing? How is power acquired nowadays? How might it be used for greater good?
3. Why are "secret combinations" of the devil, as the Book of Mormon declares? Why were the Lamanites able to destroy the Gadianton robbers among them, and the Nephites not able to destroy them in their part of the nation?
4. Explain the influence that wealth has on the trend of things among the Nephites. Have we any parallel situations in our American communities today? Explain. What are we to do about it?
References
1. Dictionary to the Book of Mormon—Reynolds—under the names of the persons mentioned here.
2. Message and Characters of the Book of Mormon—Evans—chapters 25 and 26.
LESSON II Work and Business (Second Week in January)
INTELLECTUAL OPPORTUNITIES OFFERED BY THE RELIEF SOCIETY
"The aim of education is to give the individual all the perfection of which he is susceptible." Immanuel Kant.
The Relief Society offers its members three courses of study—one in Theology, one in Literature, and one in Social Service—which are prepared by experts in their line and which may well be compared with extension courses offered by colleges and universities. Every ward has a room where these courses are conducted by competent class leaders. Mind quickens mind. Congenial women meet weekly to discuss these lessons. The class leaders and visiting teachers are studying, instructing, and growing intellectually through the service they are giving to the organization. Teachers' topics are outlined for the use of the visiting teachers, and those who study them are growing in ability to outline and present subjects. Whatever makes people think is valuable intellectual training. Thousands are called upon to pray, to sing, to speak each year and the problems that come up for solution in the social service work require careful thought and studious attention.
Nicholas Murray Butler gives the following evidences of an education:
First, Correctness and precision in the use of the mother tongue.
Second, Refined and gentle manners which are the expression of fixed habits of thought and action.
Third, The power and habit of reflection.
Fourth, The power of growth.
Fifth, Efficiency—the power to do.
The Relief Society aids its members to attain these desired evidences of an education. By reading good literature more correct and precise English is acquired. By associating together the manners of the members become more refined and gentle. Power of growth is gained through the activities engaged in by the society. Efficiency comes through constantly doing the things required.
LESSON 3 Literature (3rd Week in December)
THE SHORT STORY—GREAT BRITAIN Part II
Suggested Stories: Beowulf or Grendel's Raid—Esyllt and Sabrina—The Humbling of Jovinian—The Story of An Heir
BECAUSE the majority of us come from an English-speaking race, the English short story will have a greater meaning and interest for us than that of any nation we have previously studied. In Great Britain, the short story can be traced back to a time long before the formation of our language. It was not until the 15th century that English, as we recognize it today, came into being. And it took well into the 17th century to make the language easy for us to read at first sight. However, Beowulf, the most ancient epic of the Germanic people (an episode of Beowulf appears in the text under the title "Grendel's Raid"), was possibly written in the seventh century, some four centuries before the Norman conquest of England.
After Beowulf, we have the writings of Bede and Alfred, but few story tellers of note until Chaucer and Langland's time in the 14th century. There was a 12th century priest, Geoffrey of Monmouth, whose works purported to be a history of British kings and who laid the foundations for the Arthurian legends, next to be taken up by Malory. There was also the Gesta Romanorum, collected in the 13th century. It was made up of tales about the deeds of imaginary or real Roman emperors and was centered about Christianity. After Sir Thomas Malory in the 15th century came the ideals of the Italian Renaissance. One of the most lasting English results was the collection of Palace of Pleasure Tales by Painter. It was from this material that Shakespeare and other writers took many of their plot conceptions.
However, not until the time of Joseph Addison from 1672 to 1719 was English prose refined to its present state and the foundations laid for the writing of novels—out of which finally came the short story of today. It is with these periods that the first lesson on the short stories of Great Britain is concerned. Naturally, all of the stories cannot be read in class. For this reason the class leaders will have to choose the ones she thinks will best appeal to her group. As many members as possible should read the stories outside class. Beowulf should not be among the stories omitted.
Of its author nothing is known except that he was a man of genius who liked to throw a veil of Christian morality over the pagan life of the long gone past. There is reason to believe that Beowulf, who is the hero of the story, was a real person. In the story the poet tells us that the collar given Beowulf passed into the hands of Beowulf's lord, Hygelac. Hygelac is a historical person and was slain about 512 A.D., while making a raid into a province of the Netherlands.
The poem, Beowulf, consists of four separate stories, all dignified and moral in tone, but cold and sad as if they were written in a world where the sun never shone. It lacks the cheery note of later English literature. The stories are, (1) the hero's fight with Grendel, (2) the fight with Grendel's mother, (3) the triumphal return of the hero, and (4) the death of Beowulf. Our story is concerned with the first.
Hrothgar, the Danish king, had built a famous and beautiful meadhall called Heorot from the hart's horns adorning the gabled roof. There the old king lived in peace with his warriors until he began to receive nightly visits from a hideous and powerful monster named Grendel. This Grendel came up from a cave beneath the marshes. He was a terrible thing and supposed to be a descendant of Cain. (Medieval lore had it that Cain was the father of many horrible and misshapen monsters, and here we see the pagan veil). For twelve years Hrothgar endured Grendel. Then a thane of Hygelac, king of the Geats or Goths, came to his rescue. Beowulf, who had the "strength of thirty men" in his wrists, was followed by fourteen of his bravest warriors. They spent the evening drinking and feasting in the hall. Late hours came, and they were left alone to sleep. It was then that Grendel approached, and laughing horribly, tore one of the men limb from limb and ate him. But this was Grendel's last raid, for after his fight with Beowulf the monster crawled away to die.
In the later stories, Beowulf had to descend to the cave to vanquish Grendel's mother, who had been avenging her son's death. Later, the hero became king of the Geats, and after fifty years he was mortally wounded in a fight with a dragon.
There have been mythological expositions of Beowulf—too many to give in any great detail here. One of them is that Beowulf was a personification of storm, wind or lightning, a patron of bee keepers (which meant that he represented civilization), while Grendel typified the terrors of pestilent marshes, malaria, or the long winter nights. Another is that Beowulf typified the introduction of agriculture and civilization; Grendel the North Sea, so that the monster's flight was as the checkings of the outrages of the sea in the spring season.
It is a long jump from Beowulf to Addison, but lesson space will be its own explanation. Joseph Addison, who wrote the Story of An Heir or Eudoxus and Leontine as it is sometimes called, was born in Wiltshire in 1672 of reputable and cultured parents. At fifteen he entered Queen's College, Oxford, where he was known for his talent in writing Latin verses. From one of his poems he earned a pension of three hundred pounds a year and on which he set forth to see the world. While he was abroad, his patron lost his political position. That meant the loss of Addison's income, so the young man came home. But fortune was still gracious. Addison soon wrote a poem on the battle of Blenheim, "The Conqueror," which became extremely popular. It was not that he was a great poet, but more because good poetry was extremely rare and the Duke of Marlborough, who had won the battle, was the exalted idol of England. Addison rose to be secretary of state and married a countess. Luckily, for the sake of English literature, his party lost power and he turned to writing. He and Sir Richard Steele collaborated on a small daily, "The Tatler," and later on "The Spectator." Both of these printed short essays containing morals. The writings were really short stories without plots and were exquisite examples of English prose. In his genius, Addison was a combination of wit and elegance that made his writing like the delightful conversation of a cultured gentleman. He had a refined wit and the power of delicate satire. Throughout all his works he took the attitude of a conscious and professed moralist. He lived at a time when manners were apt to be coarse and selfish and morals had a corresponding tone. But he set up no impossible standards. Rather he used the effective weapon of gentle satire and made England laugh at itself. The Story of An Heir is not altogether typical of his gayety, but it has polished style and his moral ideas.
Notes on Beowulf (Ba'o-woolf). Fen-refuge: lair beneath the lake mead-bench: drinking bench veterans of Scylding: the Danes (other names are explained in lesson)
Questions on Stories
1. Story of An Heir. What circumstances prompt Addison to relate this story? Name all the motives impelling the exchange of Florio and Leonilla. Are they sufficient? Is the end too clearly in view from the birth of the two children? Are the steps to that end obvious? Analyze the story from this outline: Initial incident Progress of action Dramatic climax Progress towards climax of action Climax of action The Denouement (da-noo-man—closing episode in story).
What things in the story indicate the interest of Addison in the moral, rather than in the narrative itself? Could interest in the story be heightened if the author had emphasized the dramatic moments? How would an author today develop this story? Could this story be expanded into a novel?
2. Grendel's Raid. What descriptions or episodes are pagan in their nature? What elements of Christianity do you find? Who was Beowulf and why did he come to Hrothgar's hall? What elements in the story are supernatural?
3. Esyllt and Sabrina. Who were the Huns? Why did Hymyr fail in his battle with King Locrinus? Why did Locrinus put Esyllt away? Is he a weak character? Has this story a single predominating character? In what ways does it differ from the modern conception of a short story? Does the length of time destroy the unity of the story? What are the outstanding traits of each character? Is there a struggle or conflict? Does the story seem plausible?
4. Humbling of Jovinian. What are the supernatural features of this story? Do you know of any other stories where this theme has been used? What faults of Jovinian caused his downfall? State the theme of this story in a few words.
LESSON 4 Social Service Fourth Week in January
Personality Study: Making Ideas Stick. Based on Overstreet's Influencing Human Behavior, pp. 110-139,
Those who enjoyed the last lesson will be glad to know that we are now to make a new and interesting approach to the same subject. How much does the successful use of one's mother tongue in speech and writing depend upon our ability to cross the interest dead-line! Or to put the problem another way, how can we make the ideas we express "stick" in the minds of those whom we address? If we can do these things, says Overstreet, "we have the world with us. If we cannot, we may as well retire."
Consistent with the fundamental point of view of all of these interesting discussions on influencing human behavior we are again reminded of the personality problem involved. The great majority of us fail to cross the interest dead-line and to make our ideas stick because we have acquired habits that make us extremely commonplace in all our communication. We thoughtlessly adopt time-worn modes of expression that have long since lost their vitality. Our remarks about the weather, about politics, religion, poetry, music, art, scenery, science, etc., etc., are almost exclusively made up of stock-expressions borrowed from who knows where. Even our prayers too often consist almost entirely of these borrowed and stereotyped expressions which we utter in a perfectly thoughtless and automatic way. We smile when we hear of oriental people using prayer-wheels, yet fail to recognize that some of our own prayers contain elements almost as mechanical and monotonous. Just notice the tendency in yourself to use in very glib and galloping fashion phrases that have become mere words—euphonious and high-sounding to be sure, but still mere empty words. We need not here illustrate specifically. Surely in the future we can put more of our own personalities into our prayers at least. They may be more halting, but they will be more appropriate and will express more truly our sincere desires and deepest yearnings.
That trait about us which makes us lazy and conventional to the extreme in our prayers to our Heavenly Father also is responsible for much the same thing in our communication with each other. These devitalized and over-worked expressions are called cliches (kle shaz) and the type of people who use them over-much are said to have cliche minds. These people are also referred to as bromides. (See any good dictionary.) We all recognize that there are people with quite other habits. They have refreshingly new and original ways of expressing themselves not only in speech but also in other forms of behavior. They seem to do their own thinking with relatively little regard for tradition or custom. You never can be sure what they will say or do. Such people are called sulphites. (Look up this term also in the dictionary.)
When a bromide is speaking or praying a stenographer who has heard him before can often keep several sentences ahead of what he is saying at a given moment. It is all just so much "animated boiler plate." But not so with the sulphite. What he says will at least be different. It may be impossible or even shocking but it will not bore you. A bromide at his best, if his communication is not ignored, may help to pass on useful and well tried things from our great social inheritance. The sulphite at his best (sometimes he is a mere crank) will present old truths in new and striking ways, he will probably help add to the good things that come down to us from the past and there need be no "if" expressed about his communication being ignored. He is bound to cross the interest dead line and the ideas he expresses are almost sure to stick.
By way of summarizing this discussion of bromides and sulphites we may quote briefly from Gelett Burgess. He says, "The Bromide does his thinking by syndicate. He follows the main-traveled roads, he goes with the crowd. In a word, they all think and talk alike—one may predicate their opinion upon any given subject. Their habits of thought are all ready made, proper, sober, befitting the average man."
"A Sulphite is a person who does his own thinking, he is a person who has surprises up his sleeve. He is explosive. One can never foresee what he will do, except that it will be a direct and spontaneous manifestation of his own personality." (Quoted by J. R. Slater in Freshman Rhetoric—Selections, pp. 62-65.)
The two short chapters of our present lesson should be read with these personality considerations always in mind. Am I too much of a bromide? What are some of the many cliches which I might well begin to eliminate from my conversations and my letter writing particularly? Am I more of a sulphite than I should be? Do I tend to shock people for the mere sake of shocking them or does good actually result from the stimulus of my unconventional expressions? Am I able to listen creatively to a dry speech which would otherwise bore me? When one listens thus creatively one is kept alert by the effort to formulate more effective ways of putting over a vital message on the same subject. In my effort to get people to think am I supplying the indispensable incentives for thinking—the vivid presentation of interesting quandaries or dilemmas which demand solutions? (See Poulson—Human Nature, pp. 120-128.)
Problems for Discussion
1. Ask some newspaper man or printer what is meant by "boiler plate" or "plate matter." Can you recognize material printed from this stuff in your local paper? Why is it held in such contempt?
2. Make a list of twenty or thirty cliches heard by you within a week in public addresses or over the radio, such as "bigger and better," "I feel like responding to the call," "taken entirely by surprise," "my mind is a perfect blank," etc. Suggest more original and otherwise better ways of expressing some of the same ideas.
3. Explain what type of person is referred to as a bromide; a sulphite. Which type in your opinion, acting as a teacher would stimulate the most worthwhile class discussion? Give reasons. Which type would make the best missionary? Why?
4. (a) In the best sense of the word what is meant by originality? (b) Comment on the following statement: "Originality is the capacity to rearrange old ideas into new relations." "The truly independent thinker does not make less use of other men's ideas than the servile thinker, but more. A good definition of intellectual independence is reasoned dependence."
5. Consider this statement from Colvin and Bagley: "Since thinking comes only when a problem is presented or a situation faced, only when a crisis in our behavior arises, it follows that, to stimulate thought, we should confront (people) with actual problems." How is this related to what is presented in our text on pages 115 to 122?
6. Attempt to classify each of the following as either a Bromide or a Sulphite and offer your reasons in each case: Hamlet, Polonius, Bernard Shaw, Marie Corelli and Bildad (a character in the Book of Job).
7. What common defect of scientific and philosophic discussions tend to make them lack vital interest? To what extent are many religious discussions characterized by similar defects? How would you remedy them? Be as specific as you can.
8. Discuss the following statements from Overstreet in relation to this lesson: (a) "The mind is what it does. Or better still, the mind becomes what it does." (b) "He who would influence human behavior can hardly do better than to proceed quite seriously and persistently to overhaul his verbal equipment."
Gifts By Claire Stewart Boyer
In omniscient wisdom God sits on His throne Extending His gifts from the sky, And we wondering mortals in constant parade Looking upward, pass silently by.
And some hearts unseeing go hopelessly on, Bound fast to the earth and its ways; And some see the joys and the sorrows of life Like banners in vibrant arrays.
One plucks at a treasure with great greedy hands And then toying it, throws it aside, Another holds sacred a heaven-sent grief That God to his brother denied.
So each in his turn with the light of his faith Determines his share of God's grace And up past His treasures of sorrow and joy Is the all knowing smile of His face.
SUNSET CLIFFS, CALIFORNIA
Her Christmas Gift By Katharine C. McKay
IT was dusk when Amy Tremaine brought in the last load of wood for the big porch box. Large flakes of snow were beginning to fall, softly, just as they had last evening and Amy sighed as she thought of the paths to be made on the morrow. No need to worry about that tonight, though, the evening ahead of her was her own. Her chores were all done, the cows milked and fed, fresh hay down for the horse, pigs and chickens cared for and enough wood in the porch box to last at least a day—nothing to do till tomorrow.
Amy shook the snow from her old felt hat and mackinaw and hung them on the nails reserved for that purpose. Her heavy overshoes she placed carefully beneath them. The warm fragrant air that greeted her as she opened the kitchen door reminded her of the cake in the oven. She hurried to the stove and flung open the oven door quickly, "My land, I forgot all about it—. Well thank goodness it isn't burned." She carried it to the table pleased with its rich brownness and delicious aroma. "Imagine making a cake that size for me. Well anyway," and Amy smiled to herself as she said it, "It'll probably do me for this Christmas and the next so I won't need to make a cake for a year."
She filled the stove with wood, pushed her soup kettle to the front of the stove and then pumped up and lit the gasoline light, strained the milk and carried two foaming pans to the cold little pantry. She hesitated a moment over a cloth for her table—this old blue print one or a fresh linen one for tonight? The decision was for the linen one. Why shouldn't she celebrate once a year and that on Christmas eve? She brought a lovely cloth, redolent with cedar, from the chest in her room and selected from her plants the gayest of them all, a flaming red geranium for the centerpiece. One knife, one fork, one spoon, a plate marked her place. The fire was burning briskly, the soup bubbling merrily and the kitchen filled with warmth and comfort.
Amy drew an old rocker to the stove—"Just a minute," she coaxed herself, "The rest will make my appetite better." Selecting the January edition of her favorite magazine she sank down in the soft old cushions. How tired she was. She hadn't realized it until now. The paths, of course—shoveling through two feet of snow was a bit hard on a woman of fifty. She'd get Henry Steele or some other little boy to help her tomorrow. With a sigh she lay back in her chair and closed her eyes.
Was it because she was so tired that she felt so terribly lonely? "I'm celebrating tonight," she told her hard old self, whimsically, "so I'll weep if I want to and I'll fairly revel in feeling sorry for myself. It's a treat you never allow me. To begin with—I'm terribly, miserably lonely—there isn't a person closer than a half mile—oh I know I have a home, better than a good many and a good enough living and I ought to be contented, but I'm not. I want someone of my own—my very own. Oh," Amy's eyes filled with tears, "If I could just have a baby, a warm, snug, soft little baby to cuddle in my arms."
"It would be funny," she thought, "If it wasn't so pathetic—I was the only one of our bunch that really wanted a baby—wanted one enough to admit it, that is. The girls called me Victorian, said it was indecent to think about such things let alone talk about them—that nobody had families now-a-days. But I declared I would have a baby anyway and was going to accept the first chance I had. Here I am, grumbling along all alone and every one of them has a home filled with children. Every one of their homes will be filled with Christmas packages tonight, and rows of empty inviting stockings, shimmering, glimmering trees, merry laughter. I could go to any of them, yes, but they wouldn't be mine. I want something of my own—oh why couldn't I have just one baby? It was all I ever wanted."
Amy Tremaine's life had never been very happy except with such joy as one can get for service. Faithfully she had served and well and now that she was needed no longer she was left alone. First there had been her Mother—that sweet hard working little soul, who had wakened one morning, when Amy was still a girl and wondered why there was no light. She wondered all day and tried and hoped and prayed to see and when night came had surrendered to the inevitable and Amy's care. How devoted the girl had been. Never once did she allow a thought of herself to interfere with the care of her mother. Volume after volume she read to her. Every day when the weather permitted, she led her on long walks cautioning her about uneven paths, explaining the beauty of the scene, chattering gaily about everything and nothing to keep her mother happy and contented. Every one remarked about Amy's devotion—everyone thought it noble, wonderful in this day of thoughtless children, but no one offered to help make her burden lighter. Perhaps she might have married—she was pretty enough, sweet, attractive, charming when she wished to be but she resolutely put all thought of marriage aside and offered nothing but discouragement to those who sought her thinking always of her dear, blind little mother.
In Amy's thirtieth year Mrs. Tremaine died and Amy, released from long, strenuous service, blossomed out into beautiful womanhood—gayer, brighter, fairer now than she had ever been. She was wooed by every eligible male in the countryside and at last gave her consent to one, Theodore Worley, a good man, good looking, clean, substantial. He would give Amy a fine home. Everyone in the little town was glad for Amy and she was supremely happy.
The winter Jed Tremaine, who had made love to every girl he had ever met, yet had never married, nearly died with inflammatory rheumatism. By April he was better but still bed-ridden so Amy postponed her marriage until fall. All during the summer she nursed Jed faithfully. His strength returned very slowly. Sometimes in bad weather his body, bent and cramped, ached so terribly that every effort he made to straighten even a finger brought forth a tortured cry. Amy did all the work of the little farm. Her soft white hands became rough and coarse, her hair she slicked close to her head and pushed up under an old hat of Jed's, her pretty clothes were put aside for overalls. What little time she could spare in the house she gave to Jed. When Theodore Worley came she released him from his promise. "I couldn't leave for another six months, anyway," she said, "And I can't hold you that long." He vowed she could and that he would wait forever for her but the next spring he married someone in town.
Jed never got entirely well. Some days he tried to be of use outside but always after any particular exertion he spent the following day or days in bed. So eventually the entire care of the farm and of Jed came into Amy's capable hands. Sometimes when Jed was particularly trying or the work seemed more than she could manage she was on the point of giving it all up, of selling the little farm and moving into town. Living would be of the most frugal nature, no milk, no eggs or even comforts for Jed but at least she would be near someone. Then always she became ashamed of herself. Was she a weakling that she could not care for a small farm and a brother? There was another reason, too, why Amy clung to the old farm, another reason why life seemed to hold promise of something brighter.
THE fall before Jed was so sick, the "Poplars," the name the townsfolk had given the estate next to Amy's farm, was undergoing a complete renovation. The shambling, old fashioned house was being remodeled and modernized for the new residents. For twenty years the house had stood empty, the windows boarded, the gates leading to the drive, barred. Rank undergrowth covered the yard. Gardeners, plumbers, builders, came from the city. The little village was agog with the greatest excitement it had ever known. But Amy, her mind on something far more pleasant, had paid no heed to the comings and goings of her nearest neighbors. Not until Theodore Worley returned to the city and Jed's demands and complaints drove her nearly frantic did she turn to her neighbors and neighborhood gossip for solace. One day she saw a car come up the drive with David Worthen, the last of a famous old family, and a frail, doll-like little lady beside him whom gossip said was his new wife, coming here to regain health and strength. That was the only time Amy ever saw her. After a time there were nurses from the city, then doctors, then news that the Worthen's had been blessed with a baby boy. An evening sometime later Mr. Worthen himself brought a little parcel to Amy's back door. "I hate to trouble you, Miss Tremaine," he said, "But I'd appreciate it very much if you would care for my little David tonight. His mother is very, very ill. His nurse was taken with a severe cold and had to leave for town this morning. No other help can be spared now. A new nurse will come out on the. Morning train." 640 Would she care for him? She almost snatched the bundle from the man's arms. All night she sat _ rocking the baby, crooning softly and when in the morning the grief stricken father came for him she could hardly bear to give him up. She saw him occasionally after that always closely guarded by nurses. Mr. Worthen had decided to keep the house open just for the boy, coming out himself when business permitted.. When David Worthen was four he escaped the vigilant guard of his nurse one day and climbed through ' the fence to the Tremaine's barnyard. It was one of Jed's good days and he was puttering around the chickens and pigs trying to do something worth while. The baby, out of his element was fascinated by all he saw. Amy found him hanging to the chicken wire shouting in glee at the antics of the fowls. She took him in the house, washed his hands, and producing a cookie jar let him reach in and take one himself. "I'm always going to have a few cookies in there for you, David," she told him, "So if you do happen to come over you won't be disappointed." It happened just as Amy hoped it would. David eluded his nurse at every turn and made for the Tremaine's pantry and cookie jar until that conscientious woman was nearly beside herself. She made haste to report to Mr. Worthen but he only laughed. Said. "He'll never come to harm over there." The day before Christmas, David was there as usual and discussed in his serious way the coming of Santa Claus and his hopes for the big day. "Do you hang up your stocking, Aunt Amy?" "No, David,' she said seriously enough though Jed was nearly convulsed with mirth. "Let him go," RELIEF SOCETY MAGAZINE "I don't see why not. I'm sure Santa would bring you something." Jed started to reply but Amy interposed, "I tell you what I think would be fun, David. I’ll let you have a stocking that I used to use when I was a little girl and you can hang it over here. Maybe that will start Santa Claus coming our way." « he delved into an old trunk and at length produced a white cotton stocking decorated with red bands and lots of tiny tinkling bells. The boy clapped his hands in delight. "Goody, Goody, Goody. Where'll I hang it?" After much deliberation he selected a place and with great ceremony and much seriousness fastened it up. The next morning he gave his magnificent tree and expensive presents only a passing glance and hastened to Tremaine's for his surprise stocking. The cheap little toys, purchased from the town general store were more than ample to satisfy him. Amy and Jed laughed as they hadn't laughed for years at the funny remarks and eager enthusiasm of the boy. When he had to leave at last he left the stocking with Amy. "You keep it here, Aunt Amy, and I'll come every Christmas eve to hang it up." And so he had. Vee after year Amy watched him. Saw him grow from babyhood to boyhood, from boyhood to youth. Every summer he spent sometime at the Poplars and always he and his Dad came out for Christmas. "It wouldn't be Christmas without my stocking," he told her once. When he was ten his stocking held a box of crayons and a rude set of drawing cards. He discarded the cards and on an old notebook HER CHRISTMAS GIFT made some really clever sketches. Amy marveled at them—David laughed, "They're nothing," he said, "I can draw lots better than that. I'll show you my book sometime. It's got all my best drawings in it." Two years later Amy gave David the best water colors she could buy. The boy was delighted. "Aunt Amy, you darling. How do you always manage to get just the thing I want? You must be thinking about me all the time. I'd rather have these than anything I know—and such beauties too. Gee you're good to me." "It's because I love you so much, David." Amy's voice was low and sweet and the boy glancing up saw that her eyes were filled with tears. He took her rough hand awkwardly, "I love you, too, Aunt Amy. You can always bank on me." It was the only time affection was ever mentioned between them but Amy knew the boy's love for her was deep, true and lasting—as for her— the very thought of him brought a sob to her throat. She could not have cared more for him had he been her own. Occasionally after that he sent her sketches and during his summers at home they spent long hours together. She tramped the woods with him seeing beauty where she had never guessed it to be before, stopping to gaze at a sunset sky until the beautiful colors merged into a dull gray, exclaiming, over the grace and symmetry of a tree, spending hours just looking and seeming to inhale the beauty around: her. Sometimes she took a book and read while David sketched; at other times she was content just to sit near him and watch him as he worked. Always he asked her opinion before he completed a picture: Once she said to him, "The back- - ground is beautiful. David. It looks as natural as life. I can almost hear 641 the wind in those trees. But your animals—all of your animals are terrible. You haven't the right perspective or whatever you call it have you? Now if you notice Landseer's dogs—" "Landseer,' David interrupted, "Aunt Amy, what in the world do you know about Landseer?" "Not much," Amy admitted, "And I don't know a great deal about art, either, David, but if you take my advice you'll stick to landscape. Some of your sketches are very fine. I have high hopes for you." "Oh Aunt Amy I have for myself, too. No one but you knows I even try to paint and no one is going to know either until I do something that is really good. Then I'll burst into fame over night—the boy wonder—the child Rembrandt, or Murillo or even Landseer, maybe, who knows. You're going to be proud of me someday." David laughed and Amy pleased with his boyish exuberance laughed too, "That will be to make others proud of you, David. I am proud of you right now and have been ever since the first time I ever saw " you. Ay TER Jed died Amy spent all her leisure time preparing for and looking forward to her visits with David. She read everything she could find on art, even took a correspondence course in art appreciation that she might better assist him in his work. David's joy and his pleased astonishment at some of her criticisms and suggestions more than repaid her for her effort. One Christmas he came dashing over, hardly entering the house before he exclaimed, "It's wonderful, Aunt Amy, couldn't have turned out better," and before the amazed Amy could question him, "I told Dad all about it, my painting, you know—he's some sport—I thought he'd be mad or at least disappointed but he wasn't, not a bit—said I could have the Poplars for my own, he'd settle enough on me for a comfortable living and maybe if I finish school this spring, I can have a year abroad. I'm going to fix that big south room upstairs into a studio and—" the boy stopped, breathless, and turned to the woman standing very still beside him—"My land, Aunt Amy, you're not going to cry are you? Why don't you shout or sing or dance? Aren't you glad?"
"Oh David, boy," she answered tremulously, "I'm too glad to do any of those things. I'm too glad for even words."
But the plan never materialized because David had gone to a New Year's party in town and had met and after a whirlwind courtship, married Marcia Day. He left school and brought Marcia to the Poplars and Amy, going over two days after they arrived was surprised to find their boxes still unpacked and Marcia repacking a trunk.
"Why David," she said, "You're not going back already?"
"I'll say we are." It was Marcia who answered, "If I have to stay one more day in this God forsaken dump I'll go mad."
"It is kind of quiet here," David admitted, "Not like Marcia's used to," he told Amy and to Marcia, "You'll like it better in the spring, dear."
"Like it?—I'll say I won't. I never hated a place so much in my life and if you think, David Worthen, that you'll get me here in the spring or summer or any other time for that matter you're mightily mistaken." She banged the trunk top down and sat on it to hold it there, "Hurry and fasten it. That man said he'd be here for the things at four."
"But David," Amy protested, it was all so sudden, so upsetting, "What about your art?" The moment she said it she regretted it. David's art was sacred to her.
"Art? Pooh," Marcia jumped up and flung herself out of the room.
David shrugged, "See how it is, Aunt Amy?" he smiled and then sobered instantly and led Amy to a couch seating himself beside her with one of her hard worn hands held closely in both of his long graceful white ones. "I just adore Marcia—she's a wonderful girl, Aunt Amy when you really know her. She isn't used to so much quiet and solitude and it sort of got on her nerves right now. She's lots different usually. And isn't she pretty? I could be happy forever just looking at her. The money Dad settled on me won't begin to keep us in town so Marcia's father has offered me a most acceptable position in his bank, mighty decent of him, we're going to take a little apartment and just enjoy life and each other. It's what Marcia wants so I want it too."
"But boy—" David interrupted, "I know, you think I'm giving up all my dreams and ideals and all that, Aunt Amy, but I'm not. Marcia exceeds my fondest dream right now and always will but I don't intend to quit painting; for a while, maybe, just till we get adjusted to the new order of things; then I'm going to dabble at it a little in my leisure time and when Marcia gets tired of playing around, she will you know, before long, we'll come out here again, at least for the summers. Doesn't that sound all right?"
"It sounds just fine, David, and I'm so happy for you and so glad you found a lovely girl like Marcia. There is nothing more wonderful than young people in love starting out life together." Amy rose to go and David took the brown leathery face in his hands and bent to kiss the thin pale lips, "I knew you'd understand. You always do. We will be back soon. Goodbye—"
"Goodbye, David. Tell Marcia to take care of you. I'll be expecting you about summertime," and Amy hurried down the walk to the haven of her own closed doors before the storm she was having such difficulty to stem should break.
The roaring fire had burned to embers then to a soft white ash. Winter chill had crept into the room, the light sputtered occasionally as if protesting overwork, a yellow crust of grease had formed over the untouched soup. The woman did not stir. There was no sound in the room but the faithful ticking of the old clock.
Some one tramped on to the porch and knocked loudly at the door. Still the figure in the chair remained motionless. The door opened to admit a man covered with snow, one arm laden with bundles the other dragging a heavy suitcase. "Aunt Amy, you old darling. You have never failed me yet. Imagine sitting up for me till this time of night." The man dropped his suitcase, laid his bundles down carefully and ran to the side of the sleeping woman. She sat up with a start. "David," she cried, "you're a dream?"
"I certainly am not," he denied vigorously, "I'm very much here, very much frozen to death and so hungry I could eat a farm."
"Oh David, boy, I've been wanting you so terribly." She rose trembling and put her hands on his shoulders. He put his arms around her and held her close. "I'm covered with snow but you don't care, do you? I knew you would want us Aunt Amy and we didn't have any place to go but to you. Will you keep us?"
"Us? David." She looked around him around the room then back into his smiling eyes. He loosened his arms and going to the chair brought a warm little bundle to Amy. "My traveling companion," he said, "we've been stalled for six hours and she is the best little sport you ever saw."
"A baby, David? A baby?" Amy's shaking hands were trying to undo the multiple coverings. "Let me show you," David tore the blankets back. "No, cover her up till I get a fire. Here give her to me. Oh, David, isn't she lovely?" Amy took the precious little thing in her arms and held her close to her breast to check the sob rising there before she put her back into the chair. In a moment she had the fire burning, the soup set to warm, some preserve and cold milk from the pantry and a chair drawn up to her unused place. David, dropped into her rocker, seemed content to just sit and watch her.
At length Amy asked, "What about Marcia?"
David hesitated, "I hardly know how to tell you. We just couldn't make it. We tried awfully hard. I guess we aren't suited to each other. I'm exceedingly slow and Marcia—well she craves speed. I hoped the baby would make us both different and unite us. They are supposed to do that aren't they? But it only made matters worse. Marcia was pretty sick and nervous and mad because the baby was coming. She wouldn't even look at it when it arrived. When she did she said she never saw such a homely creature. Just imagine that, Aunt Amy, about her—our—baby."
Imagine it—Amy with the strongest imagination she could muster could not achieve that. "She's gone abroad now," David finished.
"Your supper, David," Amy said gently. David drew his chair to the table. "How festive," he said, indicating the geranium, "And a real true Christmas cake. You can't make me believe you weren't expecting me tonight. Supper ready, this is delicious soup, and you waiting up and everything. Did you hang my stocking, too?"
"You always do that yourself. I'll get it." Amy glad for an excuse to leave the room busied herself making a bed for David. It couldn't be possible she kept telling herself over and over, it was too good, too wonderful, her heart was fairly bursting with joy. Calmer at length, she brought the stocking back to David.
"Is it true, David," she said, "Are you really going to stay here?"
"If you are willing," he answered, "I thought we would move to the Poplars. I'll get that Wood's kid, what's her name, Mamie, to do the house work and her Dad to do the chores. You can take care of the baby and me and we'll take care of you."
"And Marcia won't come back, ever?"
"She is so glad to be rid of us she will never come near. No need to worry about her, Aunt Amy. She intends to marry again as soon as possible."
"Your room is ready, David. I know you are tired."
"I'm all in. I'll go now if you don't mind. Lots of Christmas stuff in those packages," he said, indicating them, "But that can wait until tomorrow." He took a peep at the baby, "Isn't she a darling, Aunt Amy? Guess what I named her?"
"Marcia, of course."
"Of course not. She has the finest name in the world for the finest person—Amy."
"David you didn't? It doesn't seem possible that I could be so happy. Go to bed now before I cry."
He took her face in both his hands and bending down kissed her tenderly, "Good night you dear, good, sweet Aunt Amy. Cry if you want to and take care of your namesake."
The house now quiet Amy fixed the fire again, cleared the table, removed some of the coverings from the baby, filled the bottle with fresh milk and set it in warm water to have it ready and wiped up the snow and water brought in by David. Her spirits were so light she seemed to be dancing. Every minute or two she took a peep at the sleeping baby humming and singing to herself, wanting to shout her joy. At length the baby stirred, uttered a faint little cry. Immediately Amy was at her side. She picked her up tenderly and drawing the old chair close to the fire undid the manifold wrappings. "You can easily see a man has been tending this child," she said as she made her comfortable and gave her the warm satisfying bottle. Light appeared in the east. Amy put the lamp out and sat with the baby in her arms waiting for the day—Christmas morning. She looked down at the warm, beautiful body, hers to keep and to care for and to love. "Dear God," she said softly, "Thank you for giving me the only thing I ever really wanted."
Dahlias to Love By Harrison R. Merrill
Some years ago, or thereabouts, Mr. J. P. Fugal, of Pleasant Grove, Utah, brought a more or less shriveled up little tuber home to his wife. She placed it tenderly in a flower pot and nursed and cared for it until it grew up into a rather delicate plant which later flowered. Whether it was because the dahlia seemed like an orphan in need of love or whether she was intrigued by the flower I do not know, but the fact remains that for a fifth of a century Mrs. Fugal has been growing and loving dahlias. For much of that time, on account of her skill, her constant boosting of the plants, and her willingness to assist others to grow the gorgeous flower, she has been called "The Dahlia Woman."
With an eagerness born of devotion to a cause, she has combed the dahlia gardens of the United States and Canada until this fall she reveled in a garden of dahlias which contained more than two hundred varieties of blossoms ranging in size from the dainty little sports with variegated petals and delicately molded pom poms to gorgeous old Chang, a foot in diameter, Bashful Giant, an immense flower of delicate apricot shade, and Jersey Beauty, which raised its gorgeous head eight feet and four inches above the soil from which it sprang.
Mrs. Fugal has paid as high as fifteen dollars for a single bulb, but she has loved all sorts, and finds place in her precious garden for any dahlia that reveals any sort of quality of form, coloring, or size, although she isn't satisfied with size alone. The big dahlias must also be refined and delicate if they are to find place in her affections.
What began as a mere pastime has been transformed from a hobby to a life's work, almost. During the twenty years since Mrs. Fugal got her hands on that first dahlia tuber, she has reared a family, has seen several of them graduate from Brigham Young University, at Provo, with Bachelor's degrees, and has celebrated the weddings of both girls and boys. While she has been engaged in growing refined and mighty dahlias she has also been engaged in rearing refined and mighty children.
HER SON thirteen years of age is now growing dahlias with all the avidity of his mother. This year he had a splendid garden rivaling in beauty his mother's. They work together like two great lovers of one great cause. Of course, Mr. Fugal is brought into the picture when the hard work is to be done. He says his wife must have grown more than two tons of tubers last year. He ought to know, she says, for he carried them all out of the garden into the cellars. This year he groans—pleasantly, be it said—under the knowledge that she will have at least three tons of tubers.
Since these tubers sell from fifty cents or more each to a dollar or so a dozen, Mr. Fugal feels better about his wife's hobby. Last year the half acre or so of ground produced about $500 in cut flowers and tubers. That was not all clear profit, however, as Mrs. Fugal was continuing her combing of the dahlia gardens of the country and paid out $150 or thereabouts for choice tubers from prize gardens.
"I've heard people say," Mrs. Fugal said, "that dahlias of the large and choice varieties cannot be grown successfully in our Utah valleys. To such people I merely wish to say that they are mistaken. Come with me." She led Dr. Walter P. Cottam and me over to the end of her garden and stood beside a huge dahlia. "Here's a ruler, measure us," she said smiling. We did. The plant stood eight feet and four inches in height—a prodigious height for a dahlia. We measured some of the blooms. There were not a few but many measuring ten inches in diameter. "All dahlias need in Utah is plenty of sunshine, plenty of water, and some good fertilizer," Mrs. Fugal declared. "We use for fertilizer litter from our coops. I have found nothing better."
HERE'S a hint from her as to how to care for the tubers. After the first frost cut the stalks off six or eight inches above the ground and leave the tubers for two or three weeks if the frost doesn't strike down too deep. Then dig them and place them in a box of sand—she likes the sand moist—and keep them in a cool place—as near to freezing as may be, safely. That's all. In the spring set them out to sprout, cut them apart, being careful to leave a good tuber with each eye, and set them out to grow.
Mrs. Fugal has been instrumental in establishing a number of dahlia gardens. In fact, she has charge of flower culture for her ward in the Relief Society and is kept busy giving talks and instructing people in the art of growing dahlias. She loves dahlias and as a result she has dahlias by the hundreds to love.
Santa Claus by Adoption By Silas L. Cheney
AT any other season of the year Dr. Dever would have been oppressed with a feeling of melancholy as he sat alone by his office window and gazed upon a chaotic whirl of snowflakes filtering thickly through the dusky gray atmosphere. But since it was the twenty-fourth of December he smiled as he gazed at this pregnant promise of a Merry Christmas. Even the fact that he waited for patients instead of having patients wait for him was in itself reassuring as it betokened the prevalence of the spirit of good will which led people to think and plan for the happiness of others rather than for their own personal welfare.
"Fine! Fine!" he exclaimed as he pressed his well-formed, sensitive hands together and lay back in his chair with closed eyes to enjoy the luxury of visions that were crowding upon him.
A door opened and closed followed by the firm, brisk tread of someone in the outer office. "Must be an urgent case," Dr. Dever told himself as he arose hastily and stepped into the waiting room. He stood non-plused at sight of the large, handsome, dark-complexioned man before him. The face was strange, yet familiar, causing him to hesitate before committing himself to either, "What can I do for you?" or "Why, hello, old chap! How are you?"
The visitor's eyes expressed the silent amusement he enjoyed at the momentary chagrin of the other. "Bet you can't guess," he said. Then gradually his features relaxed into a broad grin. "Tom Richardson!" exclaimed the Doctor. "Well! Well! When did you arrive in town? You certainly have changed since the last time I saw you. It's more your fault than mine that I didn't know you."
"My fault did you say? You're up to your old trick of passing the buck, and as usual I'm the goat. Yet I confess you've aroused my curiosity. Just how have I changed, may I ask?"
"Well, you are rather more dignified and sophisticated. You see those splotches of gray about the temples tone down your characteristic schoolboy's complexion giving you a rather distinguished appearance."
"Distinguished? That's a good one! Perhaps I've changed but you haven't. You're just as flattering as ever. Still I may have a certain air of distinction if, as some claim, it is acquired by either enjoying or suffering unusual experiences. To this I plead guilty. I've endured hell for the last two years. Jove! But I wish I'd never met that cousin of yours, Ross. She has certainly proved the joy-killer for me."
"I'm indeed sorry to hear that. I understood your difficulties were in the nature of a misunderstanding which a little time would serve to explain and erase."
"I thought so, too," replied Tom, "but have been sadly disillusioned, for during all the months of our separation she hasn't made a single advance toward offering an explanation."
"And how about you? I presume you have been doing everything possible to bring about a reconciliation?"
"I've been waiting, patiently waiting."
"Then there have been no advances on either side apparently. Have you ever gone to see her?"
"No. Why should I? Goodness knows she has made me suffer enough personally, socially, and professionally to make me disinclined to add to it needlessly."
"I suppose you are aware that she is living in this city?"
"Yes. I was told of her moving here a short time ago, but haven't her address if that's what you mean."
"I'll be glad to give it to you," said the Doctor reaching for his memorandum book. "I just saw her the other day and had quite a talk with her."
Tom held up his hand in warning. "Never mind the address. I don't wish to know it. You see I'm subjected to moments of weakness when I'm afraid I so far forget myself that I would crawl to her on my knees if only I knew where to crawl."
Dr. Dever shook his head slowly. What could be done to overcome this stubborn, false pride which made of little domestic troubles a barrier to happiness? After a pause during which each was absorbed with his own thoughts, the Doctor laid a hand on his friend's knee saying quietly: "Tom, it ought not to be impossible for two who love each other to meet on common grounds of sympathy and understanding at such a time as this. Why not observe this day in the true spirit of Christ by manifesting a willingness to forgive and forget."
"What do you recommend?" Tom asked dryly.
"Knowing Eva as I do I'm ready to confess that I cannot imagine her committing wilfully any very grievous offense. But she has one fault; she is a slave to her pride. I have never known her to be the first to humble herself before anyone. And I think she would rather die than do so now. Yet she loves you, Tom—she wants you. If you would go to her as you did in your sweetheart days with the suggestion of letting by-gones be by-gones, I am sure your troubles would be at an end."
Tom sprang to his feet, a dark scowl marring his handsome face. His eyes snapped challengingly and the muscles about his mouth grew taut and hard. Dr. Dever knew what that meant. He had seen him wearing such an expression a few times and inevitably it had spelled disaster for the opposition.
"You want me to go to her? Never!" Tom exclaimed. "The trouble is I've already gone too often and she's come to expect it. Our adjustments have ceased to be on the basis of compromise. I give and she takes, that's the size of it. It's just too humiliating for endurance."
He paced about nervously for a minute before resuming his seat half-ashamed, half-defiant. The snow was still falling heavily while from the street sounds of throbbing motors, honking horns and the shuffling of rubber-shod feet upon the snowy pavement evidenced that business was still running at its highest.
"Look at those lucky devils down there," Tom muttered after awhile. "They seem to have Christmas cheer stuck about every available portion of their anatomies. Jove! How I'd like to play Santa Claus for my two boys again, though perhaps I never shall. I don't mind telling you that my purpose in coming here is to commence divorce proceedings immediately."
"Is that so?" asked the Doctor blankly.
"Yes," rejoined Tom. "Tomorrow you'll present your wife with a box of chocolates, and possibly some jewelry, while my season's greetings to the wife, coming perhaps a few days late, will be a suit for divorce. Quite the irony of fate, isn't it?"
There was no reply. The Doctor sat looking out of the window moodily. If he could only hit upon a plan there might still be hope of preventing a most unfortunate and disastrous occurrence. As he groped about for ideas he was elated by a sudden inspiration which winged its way into his consciousness. With forced nonchalance he asked: "And so you would like to play Santa Claus, would you, Tom?"
"Would I? Why there is almost nothing I would rather do. To see my boys' eyes grow large with expectancy and then to have them go into paroxysms of rapture over the gifts presented them have afforded me moments of the purest happiness I think I have ever experienced."
"Yes, I know, remember I have kiddies also. Certainly if I were you I would not forego Santa Clausing tonight."
Tom looked at him coldly. "I thought I had made myself clear," he said.
"Now, old boy, don't go jumping at conclusions. I only intimated that you might be a Santa Claus meaning, of course, a Santa Claus by adoption."
"Guess I don't follow you," declared Tom. "I know I'm dense but never suspected before that I was impenetrable. Do you mind explaining?"
"Here's the proposition in a nut shell: you want to play Santa Claus but you lack the children. Well, there are hundreds of children in this city who are destined to miss a visit from that venerable old man since they have no father. Why not act as proxy and bring Christmas cheer to a number of unfortunates as well as to yourself?"
Tom's eyes gradually brightened as by degrees the uniqueness of such a plan dawned upon him. "Well, by Jove! If it isn't the old brilliant intellect on the job as usual. Just furnish me with three or four appropriate addresses and I'll certainly try out this idea of yours—this Santa Claus by adoption as you call it."
The Doctor beamed with pleasure. "Good for you!" he exclaimed. Then glancing at his watch he said, "Four o'clock. We must get busy. Now let me see—supposing you make a trip to toyland while I dash out and get you a classy costume—beard, mask, and all that. Say, but won't it be rich to see you dolled up? Ha! Ha! Meet me here as soon as possible, then we'll run out to the house to see the wife and have dinner, after which you can do your stuff."
"Agreed." Tom chuckled as he swung out of the office wearing a boyish grin.
FOUR hours later a closed car drew up in front of 36 Bond Street. After some awkward twisting and pulling Santa Claus alighted and proceeded to a little dilapidated house in the rear. The greeting he received from several ragged and half-starved Italian children, cheered and gladdened him. He could not understand what they said but their actions spoke a language world-wide. He left with his pack considerably lighter.
The next call filled him with strongly conflicting emotions. He was thrilled by the happiness brought to three little fatherless children with the bluest and most astonished eyes he had ever seen and an emaciated mother who plainly was scarcely able to keep the wolf from the door. But at the same time he was sobered by a keen realization of what right-minded people must think of a man who would willingly desert his wife and helpless children as this one had done.
Looking at his card of directions he discovered the next address was 128 Hazel Street. This took him to another part of the city, and as he drew up before a small though well-cared for bungalow he was mildly astonished. "Looks as though I'm advancing in society," he thought. "Well, there goes, the water's fine; might as well get wet all over."
He rang the bell and waited breathlessly as he heard little feet running across the floor. The door was opened with difficulty, then Tom stood dumbfounded as he gazed into the eyes of his four-year-old son, Bobbie, who hopped about clapping his hands with glee and crying at the top of his voice, "Oh, Tommy, come quick—it's Santa Claus!"
So it was a trick. Well he would certainly get even with Ross for this. But Jove! How good it was to see the kiddies. It would be hard but now that he was here he intended going through with the make-believe. Changing his voice to avoid discovery he asked where their mother was.
"I don't know," spoke up Tommy. "She just went out somewhere."
If he hurried perhaps he could get away before she returned. "You've been mighty fine little boys all year," he said. "That's why I've come to see you. Now what can I do for you? What do you want more than anything in the world? If I haven't it with me I'll try to send it to you."
Tommy, the eldest, became suddenly thoughtful and his voice plaintive as he said: "I want my Daddy to come back."
"Me too," piped up little Bobbie. "I asked Heavenly Father to send him but maybe He can't find him 'cause Daddy's not come yet."
Tom stood irresolute trying desperately to control his feelings, then abandoning the struggle he tore the mask from his face and sweeping the boys into his arms sobbed convulsively, "My little boys! My darlings!"
For a moment the children seemed bewildered then Tommy, followed closely by Bobbie, flung his arms about Tom's neck crying, "Daddy! Daddy!"
It was this tableau that greeted Eva's vision as she opened the door. "Tom!" she cried in a trembling voice. Slowly he disentangled the boys' arms and slid them down carefully to the floor before looking at her. How charming—how lovely she was. He could scarcely restrain himself. Striving hard for control he said, "I'm sorry to have troubled you, Eva. I shall try not to have it occur again," and with a look of misery he started for the door.
"Tom—Tom, you're not going—you're not leaving me again?" she was at his side tugging at him. Seizing her in his arms he crushed her to him. Moments passed during which they became conscious of strains of music, faint at first but growing clearer and clearer until they could catch the words, "Silent night, Holy night—"
"The carolers,"
"Beautiful, isn't it?"
"Yes," he replied simply. "There is beauty all around when there's love at home," and bending over her until their lips met he kissed her tenderly, reverently. She did not answer but her large, expressive eyes filled with tears of joy distilled by the unexpressible happiness which welled up within her.
"My darling, I am so happy," he murmured huskily. "If this is Christmas Eve what will Christmas be?"
"Oh, Tom, it will be just what we make it. Let's—let's make it glorious!" she breathed.
For Christmas By Kate Thomas
Because I am a mother, Christmas time Looks different to me. When I have put the last thing on the tree I am no longer weary, I can see The early morning and the children's glee.
So something coming that I have not now Refreshes me. The many trips to town, the dizzy head, Slip to the background; in their place instead A cruze of comfort for an act well done— A service that gives pleasure to someone.
All is so silent. There the tepid snow Lies luminous; and here the candles glow Their wordless message. In this minster dim I sink into a chair and think of Him.
His were the weary feet, the miseries, The anguished head, the every hurt that is, That we, like children, shall have Christmas trees With little lights of faith that softly glow The trust we know.
O little Christmas tree, so sweetly bright, You send your flickering beams into our night; And something coming that we have not now Brushes a distant breath across our brow, And hope renewed sings "Ave!" All is right.
Mom's Vacation By Elsie C. Carroll
WHEN Uncle Anthony's check for two hundred dollars came with his characteristic note, "Have a merry Christmas," the Fishers decided to divide the money evenly among the four of them and each take a much desired Christmas vacation.
Tony, as a matter of course, would go to Glendon where Madge was at school. He had been considerably worried of late over frequent references in Madge's letters to a certain fascinating young football captain by the name of Ken Halliday. While Tony and Madge were not formally betrothed, he had been sure ever since they used to make mud pies in her Aunt Harriet's back yard, that some day they would keep house in reality. Fifty dollars would take Nell to the district convention of the Business and Professional Women's clubs to be held in Montrose two days after Christmas. She had talked of that convention for weeks. There were so many places Betty wanted to go that she wavered for several days, finally writing to Kate Donnel (whose cousin Phil she had met last summer who was to be a guest at the Donnel home) that she was pleased to accept her invitation.
When they asked Mom where she was going, she said that for years she had wanted to visit Janet Langton, an old school friend who continued to send her invitations each year. If she didn't go to Janet's she would run over to Aunt Grace's for a few days.
The check arrived on the fifteenth, and there was much excitement in the Fisher household from that time until the twenty-third, the date it happened that Tony and the girls would all leave for their trips. Mom would not go until the day before Christmas.
Tony asked the family to give him the amount they had intended to spend for his presents in cash. He explained that he had his eye on a nifty little diamond down in Kimbark's window that he could get for a thirty dollar deposit, and he was determined to put a stop to those perpetual allusions to that insufferable Ken Halliday in Madge's letters. Nell gave him five dollars, explaining that she had intended to make him a silk shirt and that the material would have cost her about that much. Betty came through with another five, confessing that she was tempted to cut it in two because she would simply have to have a lot of new things for herself now she was going to Kate's. Mom, sensing the disappointment in Tony's eyes, supplied the other twenty dollars, figuring that if she went to Grace's instead of to Janet's she could make her old coat do until the spring sales.
Nell complained so much about her shabby traveling bag, that Mom took back the beautifully bound volume of Keats she had paid six dollars for, for Nell's Christmas present, and bought instead an eighteen dollar bag, reasoning that she could sponge and press her brown crepe and with a new collar make it do a while longer. Nice things meant so much to Nell.
Betty's wants were so many that Mom, who couldn't bear to see the children disappointed, lay awake nearly all of two nights trying to devise ways and means for the new party dress with silver slippers and bag to match that anyone, according to Betty, would simply have to have at a house-party at the Donnel home. Already Mom had spent more than her budget allowed for Christmas presents, and she had drawn practically all from her own clothing budget. But she still remembered so vividly how she had longed for a new gown that time, more than twenty years ago, when Betty's father had been coming to spend the holidays with her brother Anthony, that she felt as though nothing mattered quite so much as that Betty should have her outfit. If only Richard could have been spared, these things that meant so much to the children would have been theirs by natural right. It was hard, trying to be father and mother both, but she had made a heroic effort to remain cheerful and courageous under the burden Richard's death had left upon her shoulders, and always there was the satisfying assurance that he was near her, loving her still and trying as best he could to comfort and sustain her. Near dawn of the second sleepless night, the thought came to Mom that if she could endure the smoky, sagging paper on her room for one more year, Betty could have her things; and she went to sleep happy.
ON the morning of the twenty-third Tony came down stairs just as Mom was breaking the eggs for the omelet. She gave a little start as he bounded into the kitchen with his customary, "Say, Mom, where's my—?" This morning it was one of his military brushes that was missing. He wanted it to put in his bag he was packing. The thing that had startled Mom was the boy's likeness to his father. Every day he grew more like Richard. The sound of his voice, that quick little shrug of his shoulders, the way he had of touseling his hair when he was excited, that very, "Where's this or that?"—all these reminders hurt her, at the same time they thrilled her.
"Have you asked Betty if she borrowed your brush? She was cleaning her coat last night."
"Gosh, I might have thought of her." Tony started back to his packing, but he stopped at the foot of the stairs and after a moment's hesitation came back to the sink where his mother was working. "Say, Mom, I guess you couldn't lend me a five or a ten until my next pay day could you? Things might come up that a fellow can't count on you know, and it's tough to have to crawfish before a crowd. I want to show that new bunch of Madge's that Ken Halliday's not the only squash in the garden. I may have enough dough; I have all I ought to spend; Manly gave me an extra ten for a present last night; but gosh I'd hate to be embarrassed. Just an extra five or ten would make me feel safe. It's only until my next pay you know. Could you spare it, Mom?"
Mom checked a sigh as she answered a bit hesitantly, "Why, maybe I could spare that much." She knew from past experiences that although Tony's intentions were perfectly good and honest in regard to paying her back when he received his next part-time salary, that there would be so many demands upon his check that she would probably say, as she had said so many times before, "Never mind, Son. That will be all right."
"It takes so gosh darned much to sport a girl," Tony apologized, as Mom wiped her hands and started toward her room for the money. "But Madge is worth it, don't you think, Mom?"
"She's a dear little girl, Tony. I have always loved Madge." As she opened her dresser drawer and took out two of the five dollar bills from her vacation portion, she could hear Tony whistling contentedly as he whirled the egg-beater in the mixing bowl.
AFTER breakfast while Nell was gone to get her credentials from the local president of the B. P. W. C., Betty came to the window where Mom was putting the last few stitches in the altered hem of the blue party-dress. She had in her hand a tissue wrapped box.
"Isn't it the darlingest dress?" she exclaimed, touching the filmy material that matched her own shining eyes. "I'm just thrilled to death with it! And that bag is the dearest thing. You do have the best taste, Mumsy! I don't see how you could know just exactly what would suit me the way you do." Mom smiled reminiscently. This might be the very dress of her seventeen-year-old dreams.
"Say, Mom," Betty's fingers were toying with the tinsel bow on the parcel she held in her hands. "I'm worried to death that Kate will give me something expensive for Christmas. You know I'd just feel too cheap for words to give her this little boudoir outfit if she gave me something big you know. I was just wondering, Mom, if maybe you could lend me about ten dollars, so I could get something real nice there in Winchell while I'm waiting for connections. Just so I'd have it, you see, if she should give me something expensive." Betty stood waiting, her eyes caressing the pink rosebuds on the blue girdle. "You see, Mom," she continued, as her mother deliberated, "after Christmas there won't be so many things, and you can take it out of my school allowance next month or the next when I get caught up. I'd just be embarrassed to death to have Kate showing this dinky little present to her friends—and cousins—if she had given me something expensive."
"Why—maybe I can let you have the money," mother answered slowly. "But I think that gift you made for Kate is lovely."
"So do I. But you can see, Mom, how it might be—can't you? You know her cousin Phil Ashton—and a lot of other swell people will be there, and they'll all be giving her just wonderful gifts you see."
NELL did not get back until it was almost time for them to start to the station. She was very much excited. "I met June Frandson coming over here. She had a telegram from her Aunt Laura in Orton telling her to bring one or two of her girl friends with her when she comes to spend the holidays. She has a great big house and is lonesome, June says. June wants me to go. She says she'll come back with me to the convention you see, and that will make another delegate for us. But the main thing is that I'll get to study that library cataloguing system they have in Orton and learn all the things I need to know so I can put the system in here.
"It would only cost twenty dollars more to go with June. Mom, couldn't you lend it to me? I know the library board will increase my wages as soon as I get that new system in operation, and here's my chance."
"Nell," called Betty from the head of the stairs. "Don't you know it's time we're off?"
"Couldn't you, Mom? Real chance isn't it?"
"Go on and get your things while I get you the money," Mother said, and Nell rushed up the stairs for her bag and wraps.
Their mother stood on the porch and waved the three of them goodbye as the whistle of the approaching train sounded from down the gully. At the gate each of the children in turn halted a moment and called back a final goodbye. "Have a good time, Mom." "Don't worry about us." "We'll see you next year." MRS. FISHER stood watching them until they were out of sight. Even then she did not move. She stood until the puffing of the train had subsided at the station, and until a shriller whistle and renewed puffings announced that her children were off on their Christmas vacations. At last she slowly turned back into the house, shivering a little as she closed the door. How still it was! The clock seemed fairly to shout at her, RELIEF SOCETY MAGAZINE She picked up the paper from the floor where Tony had dropped it when he had finished breakfast. She removed Betty's sweater from the living room couch and hung it on the hall tree. She glanced through the kitchen door at the panful of unwashed dishes in the sink. Somehow the stillness of the house and that queer feeling of being alone seemed to recall all the Christmasses she and her family had spent in this home which had never seemed so still before. There had been the first one with just herself and Richard making as merry as two children, the next one with Baby Nell; and others and others with the happiness of childhood expectancy making a glamor over mere commonplaceness; the last one before Richard left them— and the five since that time when she had tried so hard to do the things he would have done;—and now this one—and she was alone. The clock seemed to be shouting that word at her: "Alone! Alone!" it kept saying. Her eyes began to blur, so with her customary resolution she started toward the sink. She had found that work usually sent the blues scampering. As she passed her bedroom door, however, the sight of her open dresser drawer caught her eye. She went in to close it. She picked up the one lone ten dollar bill 'that remained of her brother's gift. Her unshed tears seemed to make it dance mockingly in her hand. Suddenly a wave of overwhelming bitterness swept over her. She was tired. She wanted a rest and a change as much as the children did. [What did they care for her? It was always give, give, give! Her whole life had been made up of doing for and giving to her children MOM'S VACATION Did they appreciate it? No! What did it matter to them that they had taken her Christmas money—that she didn't even have enough to go to Aunt Grace's? What did it matter to them that she who loved pretty clothes as much as Betty, must go on wearing her shabby coat and frayed dress, for months. Or that she who loved beautiful things about her as much as Nell, must go on sleeping in this room with its soiled paper? What did anything matter to them just so they had what they wanted? ° Suddenly she felt that motherhood, that life itself was empty and futile. She threw herself upon her bed and began to sob. Each sob intensified her feeling of self-pity, and the more she pitied herself the harder she wept. As she recalled all the sacrifices and hardships of her years of motherhood, she wondered how she had endured them. There had been the winter when Betty was three that all the children had had whooping cough. For weeks she had not known a night's rest. There had been Tony's operation with the complications afterwards and the months and months of anxiety and expense—hills that had cramped them for years. The year of the influenza epidemic seemed like a nightmare to her. Then had come Richard's sickness and the paralyzing shock of his death; and new worries and responsibilities. She had never concerned herself with the financial side of their life while Richard was with them. In his blind consideration he had shielded her from that. It 'had meant mistakes and scheming and terrifying worries after he had gone. There had been other agonizing experiences as well. She shuddered 657 as she recalled Nell's infatuation two years ago for that middle-aged man from the East who had pretended to be an artist—and how near it had threatened to ruin her life. Some of Tony's gang escapades made her go cold when she recalled them, and Betty's impetuous love affairs with every Tom, Dick and Harry of their own and neighboring towns. Always it had been work and sacrifice and anxiety on her part. And what had she been given in return for it all—nothing but thoughtless selfishness of which today was a typical example. What did she mean to her children anyway but a drudge, a source to be drained for their pleasure. They hadn't even cared enough about her to realize that they had taken with everything else she had given, her Christmas vacation. Once Mom had given vent to her feelings, the bitterness against her lot grew more and more intense. 'She cried until her head and throat ached and her mouth was dry and parched. She thought of the sink full of dishes and the disordered rooms she knew the children had left upstairs; but she made no movement to get up. What did it matter how the house looked? What did anything matter? She wished she could lie right there and die, leaving the dishes and the disorder for the children to find when they came back. Maybe they would appreciate her when she was dead. Then suddenly she was aware of a presence in the room. She hadn't heard anyone come in, and yet there was someone standing beside her bed. She sat up to see if it were one of her neighbors; but it was neither Bertha Shober nor Angie 'Hartley. She didn't know the woman and yet she seemed strangely familiar. 658 As she was looking at her, trying to recall where they had met, the woman asked quietly, "Are you ready?" "Ready?" Mom repeated. "Ready for what?" "Your trip." "But I'm not going. There isn't enough money. I gave it to the children." "But I came to take you. Come!" With a vague feeling that she should have washed the dishes and tidied the house before going away, she followed her visitor. Almost instantly they were entering a home she had never seen before. Suddenly she gave a little cry. "Why—there is—Richard in the other room and the ch—No! 'Why —it's—it's Tony—and Madge!" "Yes. And those are their children. See how happy they are." "What a fine man Tony is. How much he is like Richard. I must speak to him and to those lovely children." "Not now. We must go." Reluctantly she followed her guide. While she was still wondering who this woman could be, they entered a large white building. On all sides of the long room the walls were lined with books. People were seated at tables reading. In a little alcove off from the main room a group of men and women sat talking. "Why, there is Nell," exclaimed Mom. "What is she doing here?" "She is having a meeting with the board of directors of the new library. She is presenting her plan for a rural circulation of books that will bring the best reading to be had to every home in the land." How fine she looks—how contented. I must tell her—" Almost in the next breath they were in a lovely home. Beautiful music came to their ears. It was Schubert's Serenade and recalled to Mom the thrill she had felt the time Betty played it the night she was promoted from junior high school. How proud she had been and thankful she had made the necessary sacrifices for Betty to keep on with her music. Through an open door could be seen a dark haired boy at a piano, with another boy standing near with a violin. Beside them was a beautiful woman directing them. "Betty! It is my Betty! What is she doing here?"
"She belongs here. This is her home. Those are her sons!"
"How wonderful! And I used to be so afraid she was going to throw herself away on that good-for-nothing Pete Granger."
"We must go now." Reluctantly Mom followed the guide out from the loveliness in which she had been reveling. A moment more and—MOM opened her eyes. For a moment she stared about in bewilderment. Where was she now? A corner of smoked, sagging paper convinced her she was in her own room. A damp greenback crumpled in her hand made her sit up and rub her eyes. It was only for a second, then she remembered. She sat on the edge of the bed for a few moments staring at the money in her hand. Finally she addressed the bill with conciliation in her voice. "I expect you think I'm a great baby, don't you? Even if you are not big enough to take me to Janet Langton's or to Grace's, you're big enough to help me have a good time right here at home. Let's see—I know. You are big enough to help me make a real Christmas for that bunch of motherless Thompsons down the gulch. And I guess I'd better get busy giving you a chance to do your Christmas service. I'll bring those kiddies right here. The house won't seem so lonesome, and I won't have time to worry about how abused I am."
Mom got to her feet with a new determination shaping itself in her mind. "It's time right now that I begin to understand that it is instinctive and natural for children to seem selfish and ruthless as they go after the things that mean their own future happiness and success. The world is built that way. Parents should know better than to expect their children to pay them for their work and sacrifice. The way that debt is paid is by the children passing on what their parents have done for them to the next generation—to their children. I ought to have had sense enough to see that all the time. I guess Nell and Tony and Betty aren't the monsters I was trying to make out to myself they are; they're spoiled some by my—what is it some writer called it—'smother love'—but mostly they're just natural."
This new philosophy gave Mom something interesting to think over as she went about her work getting ready for the Thompson children's Christmas party. Soon she was her busy, contented self—outwardly, though there still lingered the ghost of a longing for at least a little sign that her children recognized what she was doing for them. Her recompense came Christmas morning in the form of a night letter, a telegram, and a special delivery. The first was from Nell. It read: "The Orton librarian will give me three days next week. That twenty dollars means my whole future. You're a treasure, Mom."
Tony's was a ten-word slang masterpiece: "Sparkler put skids on Halliday. Your twenty bucks saved day."
Betty's was a five page diary of thrills. It ended: "And Mumsy, Kate's cousin—listen while I whisper this in your ear—He's the real prince charming I've always dreamed about. How could I ever have looked at Pete Granger. He thinks my blue dress is a dream and I wish you could have heard him rave over my good taste in the plaque I gave Kate. (Thanks to your ten dollar loan.) Mumsy, you're the darlingest dear in the whole world! Tony and Nell and I were talking about it on the train, and we all made a pre-New Year's resolution that we're going to be worth all you are doing for us. If you don't believe it, just ask Old Lady Future."
Thoughts By Helen M. Livingston
There are some who live in rooms all elegant, Soft-carpeted and hung with richest tapestry. But whose thoughts, like beggars, walk deserted streets With soiled clothes, and in degraded company.
There are some who live in homes of humble mien, Who know what hunger is, and want for worldly things, But whose thoughts, soft-velvet robed with supple forms, Tread stately measures oft, and march abreast with kings.
"Verse of Our Day" Gordon and King By Lais V. Hales
A FEW days ago a rather small pleasing book entitled "Verse Of Our Day" appeared off the press. It contained some three hundred and fifty poems representing the work of one hundred and thirty-four modern poets, both American and British. It was compiled by two women, both conducting classes in literature in New York City. They earnestly desired that through their teaching their students should develop a permanent interest in poetry. Having had trouble in linking such poems as Gray's "Elegy" and Goldsmith's "Deserted Village" with the student's experience they decided to bring the student in contact first with the poetry of his own day—to make him realize that there were "living authors." So they assigned as a term problem the compilation of an anthology of modern poetry to be selected both from magazines and books. "Verse Of Our Day" had its inspiration in this student anthology.
Out of many anthologies "Verse Of Our Day" stands out for its grouping method, its great variety, and the general excellence of the poetry included within its covers. The poems of Nature, Love and Friendship, the Sea, etc., are grouped together making comparison easily possible to either student or casual reader. The poetry reflects the tastes and interests of the adolescent. Many are of lyric quality for youth is essentially lyric. There are, however, many of contemplative mood which gives the book variety and universal appeal.
As poetry rather than poets has been the main aim of the compilers of "Verse Of Our Day" there are many poems of occasional poets. The aim has been to cultivate a taste for good poetry wherever we may find it, by known or unknown writers.
There is no better way to open the door of the child's mind to the beauty of the world around him than through the study of poetry. Poetry gathers the beautiful into words. The child instinctively loves poetry and it depends on the teachers and parents as to whether that love is blighted or developed. William Blake once said: "I will give you the end of a golden string, Only wind it into a ball, It will lead you in at heaven's gate Built in Jerusalem's Wall." Whether the child will wind that golden string all through life will depend upon the way it is presented to him. All children should have access to a good anthology in which he may browse at his will. We have received more comfort, inspiration, intellectual and emotional experience, through poetry than any other literary form. Certain it is that poetry has a place in the life of every human being. Thomas Carlyle wrote—"We are all poets when we read a poem well." Just as truly we are poets when we respond to the beauty, rhythm, or thought of good poetry. We rise to the heights of the poet as we read:
Red Geraniums
"Life did not bring me silken gowns, Nor jewels for my hair, Nor sight of gabled, foreign towns In distant countries fair,
But I can glimpse, beyond my pane, a green and friendly hill, And red geraniums aflame upon my window-sill.
"The brambled cares of every day, The tiny humdrum things, May bind my feet when they would stray, But still my heart has wings
While red geraniums are bloomed against my window-glass, And low above my green-sweet hill the gypsy wind-clouds pass.
"And if my dreamings ne'er come true The brightest and the best, But leave me lone my journey through I'll set my heart at rest,
And thank thee, God, for home-sweet things, a green and friendly hill, And red geraniums aflame upon my window-sill."
—Martha Haskell Clark.
We feel through this short poem the personality of its author; her love of beauty, her beautiful soul, her thankful attitude for "home-sweet things." If her life is to be passed alone she will thank God that she has been allowed, "A green and friendly hill, "And red geraniums aflame upon my window-sill." We are not only touched and inspired by the poetry but also by the thought expressed. About good poetry there is something universal. We have all some vain regrets, some cheated desire. As we read this poem we rise to the noble, sacrificial attitude of its author.
What is poetry? Poetry is old, so old that we have no history of poetry. It is so old that no man knows how and why the first poems came. We have old poems, some so old no man knows how far they go back in time. Nobody knows who wrote them or whether they were first spoken centuries before they were written down to meet our eyes in books.
What is poetry? Much has been written in an effort to explain what it is. Walt Whitman says— "The poet is the answerer" but what is the answerer. Another poet has said poetry is "emotion remembered in tranquility." As yet we have no adequate definition of poetry. What is poetry for any given individual depends on that individual and what his personality responds to as poetry. What is poetry for one person is not for another. Because, as the leaves of the forest, no two of us are alike, we should have access to much poetry by many authors. Anthologies of poetry offer us just this. Because they are colored by the personalities of the compilers we should read from a number. We cannot measure the good derived from reading poetry. We watched a child of tender years enjoy Lowry Nelson's three beautiful lines: "The silver river; Robbed of summer volume, Tries in vain to spread its pebbled nest." We were almost awed by the look upon the face of that child. Not long ago we watched a silver-haired lady wrapped in the beauties of
AS IN A ROSE-JAR
"As in a rose-jar filled with petals sweet Blown long ago in some old garden place Mayhap, where you and I, a little space Drank deep of love and knew that love was fleet;
Or leaves once gathered from a lost retreat By one who never will again retrace Silent footsteps—one whose gentle face Was fairer than the roses at her feet;
"So deep within the vase of memory I keep my dust of roses fresh and dear As in the days before I knew the smart
Of time and death. Nor aught can take from me The haunting fragrance that still lingers here— As in a rose-jar, so within my heart."
One of the best ways to interest people in the great poetry of the past is through the poetry of the present. "Verse Of Our Day" will do much for those who think poetry is difficult or dry. They will find here a poetry which touches so closely their own thoughts and feelings that they are comforted and inspired. Life always looks grander, braver, fuller of worth-while things to the man or woman who reads. The poet sees, creates, and sings. After reading—
"More soft than press of baby lips They fleck the russet willow-slips Before the bluebirds hither wing— These first, faint footfalls of Spring."
how much more one sees in the pussy-willows. Thus poetry enriches our lives in a thousand ways.
The Making of Personality Bliss Carman By Claire Stewart Boyer
"THE Making of Personality" by the late Bliss Carman, American poet and author, is a poetic yet practical book on the development of personality. "All of life," he says, "is a mere setting for the infinitely intense and enthralling drama of personalities." Making the most of ourselves is the end to which we were created, therefore it is our main business to understand the nature of personality, to appreciate its possibilities and to develop it.
Personality is threefold in composition: physical, mental and spiritual. Definite training in morality, intelligence and physique is the plan of procedure he recommends. Inasmuch as we both get and give our impressions of personality through its physical expressions, it is natural that the physical side should be emphasized.
The making of personality begins with learning to breathe and move. Many people breathe improperly and grace of movement is rare among civilized peoples. Poise is an ideal of personal culture and can be achieved. It begins with good posture and completes itself in graceful, rhythmical movement. The best standing position is one in which the weight is upheld and fore-carried over the ball of one foot while the other foot is dropped a little back, resting lightly to help balance and ready to swing forward at need, the knees being slightly flexed and never thrown flatly back. A distinctive requisite of good living poise is that the weight of the body should be carried lightly, with elation, with spirit, with elasticity. The habit of good motion gives us greater ease and efficiency for work. We must be able to stand firmly but unrigidly as the trees stand in the wind; we must be able to move without thought or hindrance as animals move. A perfect foot is the beginning of beauty as a fine caste of the head is its crowning attribute. Our entire symmetry and poise and vigor depend largely upon our development and use of our feet. Mental and spiritual demoralization result from hurting feet. The sorcery of the hand is also revealed. There is love in the voice, understanding in the eye, but in the hand there is a touch of sympathy out of which human relationships are made.
In mental development the value of instinct and the proper use of reason are important factors. Instinct would make us lords of ourselves instead of slaves of fashion. Reliance upon instinct relieves one of self-consciousness, of worry; it lends distinction and charm to any personality. Instinct pronounces judgment on the value of opinion and the worth of experience. Reason should be the pilot of our lives, to keep us from extreme winds of passion and wayward tides of thought.
SPIRITUALITY is recognized by personal vibrancy. The person who is in tune with the infinite, whose soul is chiefly concerned with goodness, sends out waves of spirituality to his fellows, which they recognize. This personal vibrancy is more powerful than beauty, more effective than intelligence. Only those who have responded to life's griefs and raptures are mellowed instruments from which the music of life may come in spiritual strains. Love of Nature and appreciation of the fine arts also intensify the personal tone. One of the most delightful touches of spiritual culture is good manners. To live without manners would be as detrimental to the soul as it would be to the body to live without exercise. And finally joy must be nurtured in the soul. Genius is the spontaneous coordination of inspiration, aspiration and execution; it requires for its perfect development the most harmonious culture of the spirit, the intelligence and the senses. He is master of his world who can both plan and achieve, who keeps his plans within bounds of the achievable and brings his achievements up to the requirements of his plans.
"He who espouses perfection Must follow the threefold plan Of soul and mind and body To compass the stature of man."
In a symmetrical cultivation of all our powers, in a balanced exercise of all our faculties the treasure of personal happiness is likely to be found.
SNOW COVERED PINES IN THE ROCKIES
Relief Society Conference Julia A. F. Lund, General Secretary
THE semi-annual conference of the Relief Society was held in Salt Lake City, October 1 and 2, 1930. Four sessions were held. The opening meeting in the Auditorium of the Bishop's Building, Wednesday morning at ten o'clock was for general and stake officers; the afternoon session on Wednesday and both sessions on Thursday were in the Assembly Hall on the Temple Block, and were open to the general public. All of the twenty-three General Board members were in attendance. Seventy-eight of the one hundred four stakes were represented by 368 officers and board members. There were also six mission presidents in attendance. President Louise Y. Robison presided at all of the meetings. The music was in charge of the chorister, Lizzie Thomas Edward. Special features were: contralto solo, Mrs. Cora H. Ballif; solo, Mrs. Evangeline Thomas Beesley; The Chaminade Chorus, directed by Prof. Anthony C. Lund; violin solo by Prof. Reginald Beales, accompanied by Mabel Borg Jenkins. Brother George Minns was at the organ.
PRESIDENT LOUISE Y. ROBISON
SINCE we met six months ago much rich experience has come to all of us. I have visited many of the stakes and some of the missions, have seen the splendid work of the missionaries, and of women born and raised in the Church and also of others who, as converts, have embraced its teachings. I wish to tell you how dearly the General Board, my counselors and I, love you and all other Relief Society sisters, how much we appreciate the wonderful effort you are making in the very wide field of your endeavor. May the blessing of our Father in heaven be with you during this conference, and in all your work.
A fine piece of work was done for some of the underprivileged children of Salt Lake, forty-four of whom were entertained by the Oneida and the Logan stakes during the summer. The little children were taken into the homes of the Relief Society sisters and cared for with loving kindness. We are most grateful for the hospitality shown these children and for the generosity of the Salt Lake City stakes who have defrayed the traveling expenses. It is a marvelous opportunity for the children, and we cannot overestimate the benefit to them. In addition to this fine work done by Oneida and Logan, we were able to send nine children to the Tuberculosis Camp in Big Cottonwood Canyon. These little ones were tuberculosis contacts or those who had the disease in its incipient stage. Much improvement was noted in these children too.
There are two reorganizations to report. In the Blaine stake, Sister Mirtis Cooper, who had made a most capable Relief Society president, was released to take up other duties in the stake, and Sister Jennie Sanford was made Relief Society stake president. In the Blackfoot stake, Sister Flora H. Johnstone, who for many years had been one of our stalwarts in Relief Society work, due to the illness of her husband was released from the position of stake president, and Sister Mary Bills was called to take the position. We acknowledge with grateful appreciation the services of these retiring sisters, and pray that the blessings of the Lord will be with them. We extend our greetings to those who are taking up the work, and our support and prayers are with them.
During the last summer it was my privilege to attend some of the vacation camps for women in Idaho, which were held under the supervision of the Agricultural College. A very splendid work is being accomplished, and the objective—recreation, education and inspiration were all realized by the women who were fortunate enough to be in the group, among whom were many of our Relief Society members. It was my pleasure to participate in their discussion and to share the camps with these sisters.
In response to requests for the publication of the names of our committees we say that the work is greater than any person or committee, and whatever is sent out goes from the General Board as a whole. According to the schedule arranged for our Relief Society stake conferences, a two-hour luncheon period is allowed. It has been suggested that this might be cut to one hour. This saving of valuable time would be a great advantage to the women of the stake and would enable the visiting General Board representatives to make better return connections. We never wish to leave until our work is entirely completed, but busy women as we are, we are anxious to return home as quickly as possible.
Many stakes have asked for instructions in reference to free sewing for burial. This is an old custom and a very beautiful one if not carried too far. There are, however, some striking examples of real hardship, not to say injustice, being worked upon our willing sisters through this custom. This is what we wish to prevent. Sewing is a class of service which may be given as charity, but like anything else, it should not be given except where there is a definite need. Those who can afford to pay should do so, as they would for anything else. I hope that the Relief Society sisters will never let anything stand in the way of their looking after the people who are in sorrow, but they go with a loving spirit which is more than financial help, and a price can never be set upon the succor and comfort they carry.
We should like to call attention to the Cottonwood stake maternity hospital, which is being so ably and so successfully conducted. Sister Bagley and her co-workers were responsible for its founding, and her successors in office have carried on so well that today we are very happy to express our appreciation for their efforts which are the means of accomplishing so much good.
There is another movement in the field of health education which we wish to most heartily endorse, and that is the course in home hygiene and care of the sick given by the American Red Cross. This great national organization acknowledges its indebtedness to the Relief Society for the fine cooperation in their work. There are three or four stakes where the splendid results are in evidence, and we strongly recommend our women to avail themselves of this fine opportunity whenever or wherever it is offered.
The question of our relief work is one that is ever with us. We have some stakes where reports come from fortunate wards where there are no needy, but these are more than offset by those where there is great need. We feel very sure that if our sisters where there is plenty, just know of those in distress, they will be willing to contribute toward the relief of the poor. The question of what to do in Work and Business meeting is often answered in just this way: We call your attention to the plan that was suggested in the April conference department meeting. We wonder if the General Board members and stake officers have made their contribution of the articles for which the plan called. We can never get very far unless we begin by doing it ourselves.
We sincerely hope the women have not forgotten the Relief Society has pledged itself to stand firmly for prohibition, and this fall we must not fail to uphold our standards. There is powerful opposition to it, but we feel that our women may be depended upon to use their franchise wisely. During our stake conferences we have spoken of the great service of Susan B. Anthony in the cause of women. Her belief was, that if women had the ballot, the great evils from which people suffered would be corrected. Let us therefore use our franchise in a manner which will justify the faith Miss Anthony had in us.
The Church authorities and the Presiding Bishopric have given to the Relief Society a very special piece of work to do. All the bishops of the Church have been asked to entrust to the Relief Society the investigation of all cases of charity requiring relief work. This great responsibility was given to us last spring, and we keenly sense the need of special training to do this very important work well. The result of careful planning was to hold a series of institutes covering a period of six weeks in which a representative from each stake would be given a course in the fundamental principles of correct social service. These workers would then be able to carry it back to the wards in their stakes. Experience has demonstrated that a group of 25 is about as large as can be satisfactorily trained at one institute. We expect, therefore, in this educational program, to extend to every stake in the Church the opportunity of sending its representative to one of these institutes. We know that in the past our dear sisters have done most excellent work in the field of charity, but in line with the march of progress we wish to become more efficient and since we can learn much from experience and from scientific methods, it is quite in line with our policy to bring these things to bear upon our work. We have highly trained women here in our office and we wish you all to profit by their knowledge. We feel that it is one of the greatest pieces of work we have ever undertaken, and we want you to know the details. One very successful institute has just been completed.
REPORT OF SOCIAL SERVICE INSTITUTE Mrs. Amy W. Evans, Member of General Board
THE class instruction of the institute was under my charge. In making out the program it was aimed to make it just as comprehensive as possible in the time allotted. We had one hour a day in sociology, as that is the real basic course of social work, dealing as it does with human relations, with the development, organization, and function of social service. This course was taught by teachers from the L. D. S. University. The second hour was devoted to the principles and technique of case work. We discussed the principles and also cases bearing upon the methods and technique and the proper way of handling the various social problems that all workers meet in their wards. The third hour was devoted to special lectures. These were given by Salt Lake physicians who are pre-eminent in the subject they were asked to speak upon, by university professors, and by other men—men all expert in the special field of social work. These lectures were grouped under special headings. There were ten lectures on health subjects, including medical tradition and ethics, bacteriology and disease, the early detection of physical disease, common diseases and resulting disabilities and treatment, nutrition and principles of growth, maternity and infancy, prenatal care, public health, public and private agencies dealing with health, trend in public health work, social hygiene, and hospital social work. Mental hygiene was given a prominent place. Under this were discussed mental hygiene movement and principles, mental hygiene problems of childhood, mental diseases, the care of the feeble-minded, human behavior, the unadjusted adult, and psychiatric aspects of social work. The third general heading was child welfare, and under this we had character education, the delinquent child, child in the court including dependent, neglected and handicapped children, school problems, and the visiting teacher. The fourth division was the legal aspects of social work, the laws governing child welfare, welfare of women and domestic relations, welfare laws in general, and the types and problems which bring the social worker in contact with the law, agencies in social control, in law enforcement, the place of law the socialized court, the place of the social worker in the law. There were also two excellent lectures on prison problems, including crime and treatment of criminals.
In the afternoon from one until two (we did let the women have one hour off for lunch) we had a discussion of required reading which included such books as Social Diagnosis, The Art of Helping People Out of Trouble, Our Neighbors, The Charity Visitor, What a Social Case Worker Should Know About Her Own Community, What is Social Work, and so on—books that are considered as authority in the field of social work. The women reviewed these books and read them and gave them very careful consideration. From two until five every day, those who were taking field work were busy visiting families in all parts of the city. Some of them picked up whole families and took them to doctors for medical examination; they went to the Capitol and discussed plans for rehabilitation with the State agent; they came in contact with as many of our state and county resources as possible in the work. The workers all did wonderfully well. The Relief Society social service department was assisted in the field work by the Family Service Society, which co-operated in training some of the women. We also had an opportunity of giving the women some insight into the way Red Cross work functions by contacting the Red Cross organization here. Visits were arranged to institutions in the state, county, and city, thus giving the women an idea of what resources we have in our state and in what we are lacking.
COUNSELOR AMY BROWN LYMAN
A COURSE in social service usually covers two years, full-time, but we are trying to give you a bird's-eye view in six weeks. This seems a long time to those who are called to take the work, especially if they have to leave their homes and children, but we would rather you would not send anyone who cannot stay the full six weeks. Choose women who like the work. It is most important to get people who are interested in it; persons of good judgment and stability are required. In choosing, get people who are fitted for this, who are conservative and can keep things to themselves. People should be chosen who are willing to give up all other activities for this work. In this, we have the approval of President Robison and Presiding Bishop Sylvester Q. Cannon. We cannot have professional people to do this work all over the Church, but we want it well done and we are asking for those who will specialize in it, keep track of reform movements in the nation and in the state, and who will be willing to give all the time they have for public service to this particular work. If one gets interested in the training, she is sure to like it. It is also necessary to have women who are able physically to do this work, and are young enough to stand the strain, for it is strenuous and requires much thought and time, so that our recommendation is to get as young women as you can for this type of work. It is well for the stake presidents to bear these things in mind when choosing the stake representative.
GENERAL SESSION Assembly Hall October 1, 1930—2 P. M.
MRS. JENNIE B. KNIGHT Member of the General Board
THIS is an age of magazines, so I wish to mention the dear Relief Society Magazine, our messenger to you, which for the mere trifling sum of 2c a week will enter into your home and help you be a better woman, a better officer, a better teacher, a better class leader, and a better member. I was asked for a little information concerning the literary work of the Relief Society from the beginning, going to the bound volumes I was amazed to find the vast scope of the literary courses, in poetry, drama, biography, and so forth. It is indeed a veritable library. Last winter I was asked to be a judge of a retold story contest of the Mutual Improvement Association. Three out of five contestants had taken stories from the Relief Society Magazine. A woman might just as well expect a seamstress to make a beautiful dress without a pair of scissors as to think that Relief Society class leaders can do without the Magazine. The Magazine is a text book. How can we keep up with our adult education if we do not have our text? And no magazine that covers the same field the Relief Society Magazine does, comes at such a nominal fee.
For the young mothers it can be the touchstone to Relief Society work. Perhaps they are not able to go to all the Relief Society meetings, but by reading the Magazine they will feel its spirit, and it will keep them in touch with the organization. To our ward visiting teachers, it is an indicator of the things they are to discuss in the homes, and will help them to cultivate that much desired art of conversation. In the Magazine there is always something of pleasure and profit. Readers are never disappointed. Articles, poems and stories are all well chosen and timely. The editorials, lessons and reports are all full of instruction. Contact with the Magazine conveys a spirit of high endeavor. It is good to know that thousands of other women with similar aspirations and desires are reading the Magazine and seeking to follow its ideals. Subscribers feel that the coming of the Magazine is like the visit of an intimate friend who brings sympathetic understanding of daily problems and strengthens the resolve to carry on.
We hope that you officers will make an enthusiastic canvass for subscribers to the Magazine. Let it not be said that there is one home in your ward where there is a Relief Society member who does not have the opportunity of subscribing for the Magazine, that they may not be cheated of the admonition which says, "Seek ye out of the best books words of wisdom; seek learning even by study and also by faith;" and that they may reap the reward which says, "If any person through his own diligence gains a greater degree of intelligence in this world than another, it will rise with him in the world to come." As women interested in adult education let us not fail to go to the fountain head, namely, our Magazine, and let us remember that our first allegiance as Relief Society women to any magazine is to that of our own organization.
"The Indian Appeal," an address by Julia A. F. Lund; and "The Lamanite in the Gospel Scheme," by President Rey L. Pratt, will be published in a subsequent issue of the Magazine.
SAN JUAN STAKE RELIEF SOCIETY Mrs. Hattie R. Barton, President
THE San Juan Mission was established in 1880. About eighty families were called from different parts of the state to go to San Juan county and establish friendly relations with the Lamanite people. It has been a long time—fifty years the sixth of last April—since our pioneers first entered the little valley of Bluff. It was fifty years in September since the first Relief Society was organized in San Juan, with fifty-eight members. That sounds like a small beginning, but to me it is a marvel that away from all the outside world, in the little town of Bluff, our pioneer mothers organized that Relief Society. The spirit of the Lord was with them and it has been with the organization ever since.
Not the least interesting part of the history of our country is the contact we have had with the Indians. Our stake is situated in the heart of the Indian country. We have always had a special mission there, and we are just now beginning to get results. A number of these Lamanite children are enrolled with our own children in our district school at Blanding. It was said that it could never be done, but it is being done. It is marvelous the way the Indian children are responding to the instruction. It seems now that the predictions that were made concerning the remnant of the house of Joseph is being fulfilled to these little people, and they are in a position now to become white and delightsome. This experiment is so closely related to our Book of Mormon study that the Relief Society feels a very special interest in it. The government has established its dormitory at Blanding and is cooperating very splendidly in the work. We are watching this experiment very closely and the eyes of many parts of our great country are on us, for in no other place in the United States are the Indian children going to school under just the same circumstances and conditions as are these little people in the San Juan stake. This is one very satisfactory way of helping the government to solve its problems and discharge its moral obligation towards the Indian, and it is our way of fulfilling the mission entrusted to our pioneer fathers and mothers.
We are a long way from the fine educational centers where there are so many conferences, institutes, clinics and lectures of all kinds, and yet we have our problems and are working for the same end as are you in other parts of our Church. During the summer months our stake board held a Relief Society teachers' institute in each ward as we are so widely separated. Last winter our stake board presented to the public the pageant play "Joseph and His Brethren," which was a great financial and educational achievement. One of the most interesting and valuable projects that we have undertaken, is the preservation of the history of our pioneers and of our organization, taken from private diaries and journals, from ward and Relief Society records. This interesting material is being compiled and in book form it will be a heritage for our children.
Each ward Relief Society now has its own meeting place. In Blanding we have the use of the domestic science rooms of the school where there is a small cannery. At times we have a great surplus of fruits, vegetables and meats. We are hoping that this will be the beginning of an enterprise which will enable us to take care of much that has gone to waste and it will also preserve food for winter use for some of our needy families.
RIGBY STAKE RELIEF SOCIETY Mrs. Lettie E. Call, President
THE improvement in the grounds and the exterior of the homes in our Stake has been very noticeable and has encouraged the refinement and the culture of the people. One of our achievements is the visiting teaching. In some wards 100% is reported, and this, in our farming districts where many miles, in some instances, have had to be traveled in order to cover a teacher's district.
Possibly the most outstanding thing we have accomplished in our stake has been our health program. About four years ago our stake board began this special work, and by co-operation with the Anti-Tuberculosis Association we were enabled the first year to maintain a trained public health nurse for two months. Our efforts have been untiring and we have enlisted the aid of not only the Anti-Tuberculosis Association, but of the Red Cross. The schools and the county. This longer nursing service has been an immense advantage. In the last year there were 227 corrections made besides those by the dentists and the oculist. Through the fine work of our county nurses and the work of the Relief Society members and others, we got before our county commissioners the state law (in Idaho) which provides for a nurse program in the counties. Through this year-round program of nursing, the boys and girls of the future will gain much and the men and women of the future will be healthy and strong. The development of health will form a splendid basis for the improvement of the moral conditions of our communities.
YOUNG STAKE RELIEF SOCIETY Mrs. L. Nettie Behrmann, President
WE live away down in southern Colorado and New Mexico. We have quite a distance to travel in contacting all our people. Some of the roads are not very good, but we are thankful we have the roads to go on. It may be a good thing for us to know what poverty means, but it is a great inconvenience sometimes to be poor. Lack of funds and the scattered conditions of our people create many problems. Some of our organizations have 100% in visiting teaching. One president reported that no matter upon whom they call, the sisters give to charity. We have some good outside friends, too, who donate to us. We have in one of our branches three members belonging to our association who are non-members of the "Mormon" Church, and we have been told that they are anxious and willing to pay their annual fund.
In Durango our people work in stores and places of that kind, but most of our stake is composed of farming communities, and we have been thinking that if the brethren and sisters would cooperate and the father would say to the mother at twelve o'clock on Tuesday, "Mama, I will stay and keep the children this afternoon while you go to Relief Society meeting," we would have an average attendance of 100%. And in turn, I believe if the sisters would say on Sunday morning, "Now, Papa, you get ready and go to Priesthood meeting and I will feed the pigs and milk the cows," and shove papa off to Priesthood meeting, he would appreciate it, and be more willing to take care of the children while mama is gone to Relief Society meeting.
We have not been able to have a clinic in our stake, but we have cooperated with our county commissioners, our Red Cross workers, and our county school nurses in the two states, and we have been successful in the last year and a half or two years in having our children examined. This has been very beneficial, and fine corrective work has been done. Our stake, in the last three years, has built three new meeting houses, and our Relief Society has helped with these. We have done a great deal along the charity line, as there are many calls in our communities. We have decided this year to make a greater effort for membership, and to try to see if we can get a Magazine in each home. One branch of our stake has seven members enrolled, and in that branch they take twelve Magazines. We are going to try to send a representative to attend the social service institute. It will be difficult, but we feel that we need this knowledge and so we are going to put forth every effort to send some one here to get that training. I feel grateful to my Heavenly Father that missionaries came to my home and brought me to Zion. I feel grateful that I am privileged to work in the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, and I certainly do enjoy Relief Society work.
SNOWFLAKE STAKE RELIEF SOCIETY Mrs. Leonora S. Rogers, President
THE dental work done for our children, through clinics arranged by the Relief Society in cooperation with the Parent-Teacher Association, is one of our greatest achievements. We weren't fortunate enough to have a wheat fund willed to us, therefore we are trying to build up a substitute. Since the General Board has discontinued our temple fund we turned that into a health fund. It is collected by the visiting teachers in July, and is being reserved exclusively for health work. The women have manifested a wonderful spirit in this project, though we continue to support temple work all we can. This small health donation which was formerly given for the redemption of the dead is now helping to save the living.
Very excellent results followed the social service institute held in our stake by the General Board. There are a few points about our visiting teachers' work which are commendable. Last year our wards reported 100% officers and teachers have access to the Relief Society Magazine. They reported 100% teachers carry the message as outlined to the homes. In our stake we include each month a president's message in the teachers' topic. This special message may be from the General Board, stake board or the local president. This has been an effective way of reaching our women.
Last summer our Relief Society stake board, Y. L. M. I. A., and Primary stake boards united in trying to correct a social problem. Our block teachers carried the special message to the mothers in behalf of the Primary and M. I. A., and we immediately noticed that the Primary work went over with much more zeal.
Our teachers have an efficiency record card which they enjoy filling out each month. They score on each of the ten activities which if completed make them efficient teachers. They are:
1. I have attended preparation meeting and report meeting.
2. I have collected 100% annual dues on my district.
3. I have made prayerful preparation of my teacher's topic.
4. I have made my monthly visit.
5. I have filled out the activity report in my teacher's book for this month.
6. I have carried my president's special message to each sister this month.
7. I am a subscriber for the Relief Society Magazine.
8. I have done a good turn to at least one individual in my district this month.
9. The homebound or aged in my district have had a special visit from me or someone I have invited to go.
10. At least 50% of the women of my district have attended one or more Relief Society meetings during this month.
(A possible 100% can be made. Each number counts 10%.)
Another thing we did this year was to send a Christmas gift to the Arizona State Children's Home. The superintendent of the school intimated a gift would be acceptable. We sent a box containing twelve new quilts, made and donated by our twelve organizations. Last May we made and donated a beautiful bridal suit to the Arizona temple. This is to be worn by the young people who go from our stake to be married in that temple.
During the lesson season members of the stake board wrote and presented a play "Joan of Arc." This was taken principally from our literary book, "The Girl in White Armor." We received good advertisement from the schools because of its historical value. It proved a very fine success.
Our special activity for March 17th last year was a double trio prepared in each ward and rendered on that program. At the following union meeting these trios were all assembled in the form of a musical contest. This brought a special group into an activity.
In the president's annual visit to the members of the ward at the close of the year, we prepared an outline to help her. Besides the regular message, we asked her to stress the following points:
1. Invite new members to join.
2. Annual dues should be paid in January.
3. Magazine should be accessible to every officer.
4. Encourage home study of lessons.
5. Pay special heed to fatherless and motherless.
6. Ask every woman to do a good turn during Christmas week.
Our union meetings are our best means of putting over the following month's work, but because of the distance of most wards we cannot hope to have a full attendance of officers. However, we have the assurance of at least one representative each month, for our good bishops provide a way for one representative from each organization to come in. Our secretary sends notice in advance telling the presidents of any special activity to be given at the meeting, often designating the special officer we would like sent in. For example, if there is to be some demonstration or plan for the Work and Business Meeting, we ask for the counselor who has that work in charge to come. And I might say in passing that we have found more work can be accomplished in Work and Business Meeting when the work is planned ahead than will otherwise be done. This plan for union meeting has carried over fairly well in our stake. We find better efforts put forth when each officer carries her division of responsibility. In so doing she soon becomes a specialist along her particular line. This has proved so in our educational activities. From ward reports it is quite evident that our outstanding achievement for the past year has been in our lesson work. We conducted a contest for six months beginning with January and ending with the June lessons. The objective for this contest was to increase our attendance. Following are the points used for the literary class since that was the heaviest course. The score of the contest was based on: ~ 1, Attendance. 2. Preparation of lesson in Magazine. 3. Reading of the biography for that particular month. 4. Copying neatly one or more gems found in the biography. For the month we allowed 30% for attendance, 20% for Magazine reading, 30% for reading the book, and 20% for the gem; 4% of the women of the stake scored 100% in the literary class. 108 women read "Son of the Middle Border;"' 133 women read "Florence Nightingale;"' 114 women read "Joaquin Miller;'" 167 women read "Schumann-Heink;" 90 women read "Emily Dickinson;" making a total of.612 good books read by the literary class. The score cards used for the Theology were the same as the literary for numbers 1 and 2. No, 3 was reading of Book of Mormon text; No. 4, Application of lesson in the home (which meant a 674 discussion or review of the story); 9% of the women of the stake made 100% in the Theology class work; 242 women reported part reading of the Book of Mormon. In the Social Service, the score was based much the same with the exception of No. 4 which required outside reading along the line of social service; 30% of the women read the "Art of Helping People out of Trouble." This lesson activity has been a wonderful course for the education of our women. The women have had this social contact at meeting and then return to their homes enriched, refreshed, and their burdens lightened for another week's work. Such work develops love, harmony, and lasting joy. OGDEN STAKE RELIEF SOCIETY Mrs, Ida M. Treseder, President HIS summer when the General Board sent out to the stakes a questionnaire we felt that they did us a very great favor. From the investigation necessary we learned more about our Relief Society organizations than we had ever known before. I think this winter that our big work will be to try to get hold of sisters who are enrolled and who have not been attending the ward organization meetings. Our greatest achievement is through our class work. We have some very efficient and capable class teachers on our stake board, and they help to' make efficient teachers in our wards. Our sisters have surely gotten a very good education out of the class work. Every year we are developing teachers and class leaders. Since we have had the teacher training class our visiting teachers' RELIEF SOCETY MAGAZINE work has been done better than before. We co-operate with all the social service agencies in our stake, and in this respect I would like to mention our hospital. We go to the hospital each month and do sewing for that institution, and we have had the privilege given to us to send a limited number of charity maternity cases to the hospital. We have had that privilege for some time and have sent a great number of our sisters to the hospital for attention at that particular time. We have followed up this work and found that they have had just as good attention as though paying the money for it. We are very thankful to our hospital for giving us that privilege. MARY C. KIMBALL Member of the General Board and Editor of the Relief Society Magazine ne different, from the prevailing spirit and thought of the times, was the attitude of Joseph Smith toward women when he organized the Relief Society in 1842! He said: "This charitable Society is according to your natures; it is natural for females to have feeling of charity. You are now placed in a situation where you can act according to these sympathies which God has planted in your bosoms, If you live up to these principles, how. Great and glorious!" From that time on the condition of women changed for the better. The way he recognized the divine instincts given women by our heavenly Father, and his desire to see these instincts have a fuller expression is a mark of his divine inspiration. I am deeply grateful for the privilege that is mine, of laboring in this great cause. No finer band of women could be gathered together in the world than RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE are found in our ranks. Every talent we may have has opportunity for expression. Are we clever with our fingers? Then we may quilt, make little garments for children, make over clothing for the poor, and find joy in that service. Do we long to know books and writers better than we have done? Our Society calls us together each week to study some of the finest things that have been given to people. And so we delve into religious subjects, into literature, into social service questions, and this great field is opening up more and more to us all the time, and we are learning that it is not enough to supply the needs of people temporarily, but that we must study what has caused their condition, and how we may help them to help themselves, how we may raise them to a higher plane of living, and how we may teach them to budget their resources and to live within them. Everywhere we turn we may give expression to these longings that are in our souls to help our brothers and our sisters in need. When we realize the vastness of this work and its many opportunities, we do well to ask, how may we better serve? What qualifications should we cultivate to make us more fit for the burdens we assume? We should think and study and observe, read and ponder over what we read, that vision may come to us. We should keep God's commandments in order that we may by example as well as by precept show the better way of life. Then only will truth and light come to us because our Father has pronounced that he that keepeth his commandments shall receive truth and light until he is glorified in truth and knoweth all things. We should cultivate poise so that we are not perturbed by little things, but that we can keep our eyes steadfastly fixed | 675 on the big things of life that need our attention. We should maintain a balance of interest—sometimes we become so intensely interested in one thing that we are unbalanced. I have heard of women who become so wrapped up in genealogical research that their children became secondary considerations. No matter how good a thing is we want to obtain a balance of interest. Work, recreation, rest—so goes the cycle, and we should not be one-sided and devote all our time and energy to one thing. How we need to cultivate patience in our work with the unfortunate! Sometimes they try us; we wonder whether we will ever accomplish anything, but we find if we maintain a patient attitude that gradually things become brighter and the object we have had in view comes nearer, and if we will keep a right attitude, that means much. We need to keep the spirit of youth. Youth is not a matter wholly of young muscles and of arteries that have not begun to harden—it is a matter of our outlook, our interests, of joy in life, and enthusiasm. Let us put into action our better selves, and look into our own hearts and see what needs rooting out, see what good qualities we have that we can develop. Let us be not petty, but broad; not fault-finding, but constructive; not hasty, but wise in judgment; not prejudiced, but open minded; not selfish, but generous; not erratic, but dependable; and let us remember the admonition of Paul that we should be an example in word, in conversation, in charity, in spirit, in faith, in purity. May our Father enable us to see the wonderful work that he has established, and may we show our appreciation of it by putting the very best we have into it, and then, my sisters, we will learn the paradox of service that Christ tried so hard to plant in 676 the hearts of his followers—by giving we shall have more; by studying it will be like putting grain into the granaries so that the staff of life may be taken out; we then, because of our study and research and thought will have developed into more splendid women, and will be able to give greater service. ALICE L. REYNOLDS Former Member of the General Board and Editor of the Relief Society Magazine F OR over seven years it was my high privilege to edit your Magazine. We did seek to keep to the front women who are achieving, and we sought, also, to embody the lives and efforts of people who are not just of our own day but who made their worthy contribution in the past. One of the particular privileges that came to us during our term as editor was to cover the centenary of the coming forth of the Book of Mormon and the centenary of the organization of the Church. It was a great privilege and we hope that when another hundred years shall come that if those who are doing the work shall be interested in turning back to see what was done in 1930, that they will find there material worthy of perusal. One of the things we do hope is that through all the work the golden thread of the gospel could be felt and seen. Sister Kimball is a noble woman. She is a woman who loves God and loves the gospel of Jesus Christ. She is an able woman who has devoted herself to study; she is a woman who loves women, so that I am full of joy and rejoicing that the work that I found necessary to lay down has fallen into the hands of one so well prepared to do it and RELIEF SOCETY MAGAZINE one whose spirit is in such hearty accord with all Latter-day Saint women. I want to say a word about this Board. When I was a member of it, it would not have been the best of taste for me to say what I am going to say now, but since I am not one of them now I can say it perhaps with some propriety. They are magnificent women; they work early and late, and their eyes are always looking ahead. There are no back wheels to the General Board of the Relief Society. It is progress; onward, onward is the slogan, and they work and they deliberate and they plan to bring to you the very best that there is to bring to you. The Relief Society has an ambitious program. It has such a worthwhile program that all Relief Society women should feel that they have a very worthy aim in life when they are doing the work of the Relief Society. You know some of those who are philosophers tell us today there is no happiness for people who haven't a worthy object, a worthy aim. One of the things that makes me rejoice in the gospel of these latter days is that it furnishes such high ideals and such worthy aims for its workers. ALICE D. MOYLE President Eastern States Mission. Relief Society WISH to voice my appreciation and esteem for the wonderful women who have boys on missions. It is not only the fighters in the first ranks who assist in the progress of the Church, but those who stay at home and make it possible, and I am sure, after being acquainted with several hundred of your boys, what _kind of mothers they have at home. I know the Lord will bless you for your sacrifices, both of their presence and the money it costs to keep RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE them there, and I want to assure you mothers that your confidence is well placed for I have come in contact with some most wonderful boys in the year and a half that I have been in the Eastern States Mission. The girls are doing a marvelous work, work the boys could not do, in Primary work and Mutual work; and they go into homes where the elders cannot go, and I have never come in contact with one girl in the mission field that I was not proud of and that I could not take in my arms as my own child. They are all possessed of the same spiritual power in the mission field that makes them all beautiful and all lovely to be with. PRESIDENT _RUDGER CLAWSON HE (Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints was organized one hundred years ago, and a little later, the Relief Society was organized, nearly one hundred years ago, and it has been going strong and was never stronger or more influential or powerful than it is today. Think of a membership of 62,- 900 souls! I wish to say a word in respect to the Relief Society Magazine. It is a wonderful Magazine. You must never forget that it is the Relief Society organ, it is your publication, it belongs to you, it is issued for your benefit. If a Relief Society sister should come to me and say, "Brother Clawson, what is my responsibility to the Church publications?" I should say, without hesitation, "My dear sister, your first obligation in this matter is to subscribe to the Relief Society Magazine. In it you will find every instruction and teaching that is necessary for you, and then after that, if you want to subscribe for other magazines, it is all right, but for 677 you, it should be the Relief Society Magazine first." COUNSELOR JULIA A. CHILD RELIEF SOCIETY offers an opportunity for adult education for the women of our Church that is not found anywhere else. We are proud of our outlined lessons and the work that is being accomplished through them. The course of study this year is particularly interesting. In theology we continue the study of the Book of Mormon. We are hoping that by the end of next year when we will have completed the course that every woman in this Church not only will have read the Book of Mormon but will have within her heart a testimony that it is true. Our literary work is The Short Story. This course will interest many in the text book which covers the best in this field of literature. We also hope that before the course is ended (it is going to be a two-year course) that many of the stories of our pioneers will have been gathered and written by the members. These may be compiled as short stories. We hope a rich contribution will come from our members in this way. The text of the social service course is Influencing Human Behavior by Overstreet—an excellent book and one of the very latest. Quoting from our text, Overstreet says: "As individuals, our chief task in life is to make our personality, and what our personality has to offer, effective in our particular environment of human beings." We need to know how to interest our fellows, how to arouse their expectations, how to build up habits to a favorable response, and how to lead and adjust and control. Now to the mothers in our Church an opportunity is given to study how 678 better to understand ourselves as well as our children, and how to increase our personalities so as to become more effective in the service of others. We must learn something about science, its aims and its limitations; above all we must learn something of how we can apply science to ourselves, especially in relation to others. The topics that are outlined for the visiting teacher are of very great importance. The visiting teacher is one of the very first activities that was given in our Relief Society. The visiting teacher goes into the home of many who do not go to our meetings, so it is very important that they have this message and deliver it intelligently. For this purpose a training class has been organized and the visiting teachers are asked to come one Tuesday of each month and discuss their problems. They are instructed to carry whatever message is necessary from the president, and they should leave one beautiful, helpful thought in every home. In the preparation of this educational work, committees from the General Board are chosen, and they decide on the subjects of our work. It is not done hastily, but carefully and prayerfully. Whenever a new or old subject is to be taken up, it is thoroughly discussed; after the subject of study is chosen, great care is exercised in selecting the writer of the lessons. We feel particularly pleased for all the authors of the lessons have the background of Relief Society work and are able to write splendid lessons. Then, in your wards capable class leaders are chosen. After all this work has been done, the members of the association should support the teachers. Very full lessons are given in our Magazines, and these should be read carefully. Reference books are RELIEF SOCETY MAGAZINE often mentioned there, but it is not the intention of the writers of the lessons that you purchase these reference books, but we are anxious that just as many as possible buy the text books. Of course we realize that all class leaders must have the text book and we hope that at least all ward associations will have one besides that, and we urge as many of the members as can possibly do so to buy the texts and use them. While we are urging that this work go on, we want you to remember this, that at the bottom of it all is the spirit of the gospel, and we hope it will be taught with every lesson because upon that we build our work. We trust that this year the lesson work throughout the Church will be, if possible, a little bit better than it has ever been before. We hope the members and officers will go away with a determination to work a little bit harder. We hope the visiting teachers will go out fully determined to visit every home and carry a message to each one. I hope that we will have a successful year, and I am sure we will. PRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANT I CAN truthfully say that it is always a pleasure to me to meet with our sisters. My dear departed mother was both father and mother to me, and some of the dearest friends I have ever had in the world have been the officers of this association. My mother was a girl with "Aunt Em" Wells and with Sarah M. Kimball, Eliza R. Snow, Zina D. Young, and others, in Nauvoo. My earliest recollections are associated with the very splendid and wonderfully inspirational teachings of Eliza R. Snow. As a little child, residing on Main Street where the Z. C. M. T. Now stands, I very often RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE went over to the Lion House and spent many hours in the rooms of Aunt Eliza, as I called her. She was full of interesting, inspirational experiences, personal experiences with the Prophet Joseph Smith, She instilled into my heart, and so did my mother and these other noble women to whom I have referred, and many others whom I have not mentioned, especially "Aunt Mary" Partridge, a love for the inspiration and spirit and ability and wonderful power of Joseph Smith. I learned to love him as a child and I am pleased to say to you that in all of my travels at home or abroad, wherever I have gone, that I have constantly been finding something that added to my love and respect for the Prophet Joseph Smith. It is a wonderful thing that under the inspiration of the Lord this man should have established the first women's association of any note in the United States of America. I am sure that there is no other class of people of the same numbers as the Latter-day Saints that could ever get together such a body as I see before me here today, interested in religious matters and in the welfare of the good women of their respective communities where they live. I was particularly impressed with the last remark that was made by the sister that preceded me, that above all, the main thing is to get the spirit of the gospel. The spirit gives life, the letter kills, and I have no fear for the Church of Jesus Christ as long as the women of the Church are as devoted as you are and as others are in their various organizations. I am convinced that it is the mother that shapes the lives of the children far more than the father, and if we can only keep a deep spiritual interest in the hearts of our sisters in the Primaries, in the Mutuals, and in the Relief Societies, this work is bound to 679 progress. The absolute faith in the hearts of these noble women I have mentioned, in the gospel of Jesus Christ and the divine mission of the Prophet Joseph Smith, I am sure, has come down to you and me and to others that are of the second and third and even of the fourth generation of faithful workers in this Church, I pray constantly for all of the officers of this Church, whether in the Priesthood or in the auxiliary associations. I am sure, in my secret prayers particularly, that I never forget, morning or night, those that have been called to preside, to direct the affairs in the Priesthood quorums and in the auxiliary associations. My prayer is that each and every one of you holding a place of responsibility shall so order your lives that they shall be examples of diligence and energy and of the spirit of the living God, that can be followed in every part by those over whom you preside. I am proud of our mothers; I am proud of our daughters. I do not believe you can travel in any part of the world and find finer people than among the Latter-day Saints. I have often said in the past when we were suffering slander and persecution and trouble that if we could have a real, genuine photograph of the splendid women that were connected with the women's organizations in our Church, published in various periodicals that were maligning the people, that the very faces of these women would be a refutation to all the charges made against our people. I remember well in Japan of reading an article by a man who stated it was his business to analyze the 'faces of people, and he said he had just come from visiting the president of the "Mormon" Church (that was when Lorenzo Snow was president) and he said, 680 with one single exception, in all his life he had never looked upon a more God-like face than that of the "Mormon" leader. If the 'Mormon' Church can furnish leaders like this, it will need no greater proof of the integrity of the people. I have often felt that a photograph of our dear sisters, with the intelligent, god-like faces they. Possess, would be a testimony to all the world of the integrity of our people. One thing I expect to speak upon tomorrow is the gratitude in my heart for the wonderful change that has come about in the world today with regard to our people. We are becoming known for exactly what we are—a God-fearing people, a people with an abiding faith in God as our father, the father of our spirits, as one we can approach, and who, we know, hears and answers prayers; a people with an absolute faith in Jesus Christ as the Redeemer of the world, and with an absolute faith also that Joseph Smith was in very deed a prophet of the true and living God. These are fundamentals today. The world is drifting away from faith in God and in Jesus Christ as the Son of God. They have no belief in a living prophet; they worship the dead prophets, but we have an abiding faith in Joseph Smith as the absolute prophet and instrument in the hands of God in establishing here upon the earth the plan of life and salvation. It is, my dear sisters, in very deed the truth, it is the pearl of great price which is of more value than anything else in all the world, and I rejoice that we are becoming known as a God-fearing people. That God will bless the officers of this association, the general officers, the stake and the ward officers, and all the members, is my most earnest and humble prayer, and I ask it in the name of Jesus, our Redeemer, Amen. RELIEF SOCETY MAGAZINE ACHIEVEMENTS OF WOMEN Counselor Amy Brown Lyman I DESIRE today to speak of some achievements of women in the last century, for it is really astounding what advancement has been made by and for women in one hundred years. We read constantly of the service of women's organizations and of women who are working successfully in business, education, scientific research, music and art, in the professions of social work, law, and medicine, and in politics. It is a strange thing that men have opposed the activity and development of women, but stranger still that many women have also joined the opposition, while others have been indifferent. For it is a fundamental fact that the development of the race itself depends largely upon the development and activity of women, and that the race develops in proportion to the development of woman. Even the great central fact has sometimes been lost sight of "that with each generation the entire race passes through the body of its womanhood, as through a mould, reappearing with the indelible marks of that mould upon it." Only an able, active, working womanhood can permanently produce an able and active manhood. In social work especially, women have had a large part. There are as many noted women in this profession today as there are men, Social work has contributed much to the comfort, happiness and well-being of the world. It has fought poverty, crime, disease, and immorality, and has accomplished much in protective and preventive work. It was the social worker and not the doctor who first began the organized fight against tuberculosis; against venereal disease; against the RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE unventilated and unclean tenement houses. It was the social worker who sought protective legislation for human beings, for sickness and accident insurance, workmen's compensation, minimum wage for women, eight-hour day; the social worker who organized plans for infant and maternity care, for birth registration, and for health opportunity for everybody, and women workers have played a large part in this work, James Gerard (former ambassador to Germany) recently named a list of fifty men whom he designated as rulers of the United States. In September, 1930, Miss Ida M. Tarbell, herself a distinguished writer and editor, at the request of the Los Angeles Times and the North American Newspaper Alliance, made a list of fifty foremost women of the United States, entitled "Living Women Who Have Done Most to Advance the Welfare of the Country." Her measuring rod was (1) ability to create and initiate, (2) ability to lead and inspire, (3) ability to carry on. She listed the women in groups as follows—Artists and Writers, 16; Educators and Scholars, 12; Social, Industrial and Political Workers, 18; Business Women, 2; Women in Sports, 2. Being a humanitarian organization ourselves, I am sure we will all be interested in a few of the women listed in the social, industrial and political class whom I shall mention: Jane Addams, America's most revered woman; Carrie Chapman Catt, the country's leading stateswoman; Julia Lathrop, a Hull House volunteer worker of thirty years standing, a child welfare specialist, the first chief of the U. S. Children's Bureau; Grace Abbott, chief of Children's Bureau, immigration expert; Lillian D. Wald, originator of district nursing in 681 New York at Henry Street Settlement, and the woman who suggest ed the Children's Bureau; Florence Kelly, leader to improve factory conditions; Judge Florence Allen (a Utahn), Justice of Supreme Court of Ohio; Mary Anderson, chief of Woman's Bureau of U. S. Department of Labor, who has worked unceasingly for women and girls in industry; Maude Ballington Booth, for forty years a prison worker; Helen Keller, master of her fate. A discussion of women and women's work in the United States would not be complete without mention of our L. D. S. Women's organizations—the Relief Society, the Young Ladies' Mutual Improvement Association, and the Primary Association. I shall speak only of the Relief Society today. For eighty-eight years the 'Relief Society has existed. In this time it has grown in membership from 18 to 62,902; in branches from four Nauvoo wards to 1665. Last year the amount paid out for charity was $98,925.02. The Relief Society today encircles the globe—an invisible band connects the branches which are held together in love, unity of purpose and loyalty by the spirit of the work and by gospel ties. Beginning in Illinois, on the banks of the Mississippi River, the Relief Society first grew westward into the fastnesses of the Rocky Mountains, then across the continent, and on to the countries of Europe; later, southward to Hawaii and New Zealand, 'Australia, Tahiti and Tonga, and then to South Africa and Asia Minor, forming a circle. The same influence directs the work everywhere; there is the same uniformity of purpose; the same benevolence and sympathy are extended; and the same spirit—the spirit of the gospel—permeates the work. Expansion of Interest in Terms of Child-Welfare By Jean Cox EEN interest in the welfare of the child has changed the term "Adult Education," by some groups to "Parent Education." In a broad sense this may include all kinds of adult education because what the parents may learn in any field of educational endeavor will react to some extent upon the welfare of the child. The careful intensive work in child study and parent child relationships which is _being carried on in the half dozen outstanding child welfare stations, is representative of the sympathetic concern in the welfare of the child. The present day interest in child welfare is somewhat typical of an experience related of Mrs. Isaac Leah Hillis of Iowa, who was largely instrumental in getting state appropriation for the study of how children grow. While she was working for this, a president of a university suggested to her "That - the women of Iowa might indeed do a worth while service if they put chimes in the tower." Her reply was prophetic. "Mr. President, the women of Iowa are going 'to start chimes ringing which will ring throughout eternity." That was the beginning of one of our best child welfare stations. 110,000 people were represented in the request for an appropriation in 1912, The careful persistent study which has been carried on in the Iowa Child Welfare Station, to increase the number of normal children free from remedial defects has indeed set the chimes ringing in Iowa. Other states can well follow this lead. Ge national child welfare conferences have been called by presidents of the United 'States. President Roosevelt called one in 1901, where two hundred child welfare workers met to consider dependent children. The outstanding recommendation of this conference was that dependent children be not removed from their homes, but that the homes be made acceptable. This is another example of the need for adult education. The second recommendation was, where children necessarily had to be cared for in institutions that the cottage plan be used and that home conditions be approached as nearly as possible. The next big step in child care was the organization of the Children's Bureau. In 1912, in addition to the national conference, regional conferences were called to discuss social economic problems in child welfare. In 1929 the outstanding conference of the year was the White House Conference on child welfare called by 'President Hoover. This marks keen interest in the problem. $500,000 from a private source is being used to determine present and future needs in the care of children. The original committee of twenty-nine has been expanded to almost one thousand specialists who are making a most careful study of problems such as these: The needs of the child as a member of the family group. What must the child get out of family relationships which will give durable satisfaction? CHILD WELFARE What kinds of play are best suited to develop the child's capacity in joy of living? What is needed in terms of training to help children live together in the most efficient way? The child has a right to proper physical and mental development. When the best is done for the child the potential economic value will be greatly increased. Some members of the committee are making a careful study of the delinquent factors in modern life which defeat agencies already going. One group is trying to determine how much can be expected from the home for nurturing its citizens so that lives may be extended. The vision of the committee makes it possible to place considerable emphasis upon preventative measures against ill health, delinquency, and other undesirable standards. To offset these it stresses the importance of good habits, desirable attitudes, good citizenship, worthy ideals. When the findings of this committee are released, more minds will be thinking together and will have a more definite ideal of a well-trained child having good physical and mental health. While the specialists are trying to make a foundation on which to expand a program on what is best for the children of the United States, they realize that they cannot go higher than the minds of the people. Before many definite or worth while results can be obtained, a period of parent education must ensue which will result in a desire to adapt and make the most of the findings of these specialists. Opportunity to study problems pertaining to child welfare should be eagerly sought for by understanding and thoughtful parents. This will call for a program in parent education for parents and those adults who have children under their direction. It is expected that rapid strides will be made in this field of education.
AMONG any sacrifice should be considered worth while if careful persistent study in child problems will improve not only the physical but mental health of the child. Parent education is one phase of education which makes possible extra returns. In nine cases out of ten when a mother becomes interested in child training she very soon realizes that she herself needs application of psychological principles in order to make her the kind of a mother her trained child should have. In many cases while the mother would not make the initial sacrifice for herself, she becomes converted to the fact that for better children there must be more intelligent parents. "And a little child shall lead them" scores high in terms of child welfare and parent education.
THE WOMAN AT THE WELL
"Whosoever drinketh of the water that I shall give him, shall never thirst, but it shall be in him a well of water springing up into everlasting life."
How Old is Old? By Ada Taylor Graham Executive Secretary Utah Tuberculosis Association
METHUSELAH was 969 years old when he died; the poet Chatterton only 18. What does it mean to be old? When are we old? How old is old, anyhow?
Perhaps it is reduced earning capacity? American industry scraps its men and women at forty. But age doesn't necessarily have anything to do with productivity. Some of the finest things in the world came from so-called "old people." Giovanni Bellini, Michael Angelo, Sidney Cooper, painted some of their best works just a short time before they died. Titian was painting with "incomparable steadiness of hand" until the day of his death at the age of ninety-nine. Goethe, Voltaire, Anatole France, Frederick Hanson, Littre, van Ranke, retained their creative energy unimpaired until their deaths. So we needn't be old after all!
How can we prevent senility? Most of us exercise too little, get insufficient rest, live too hard and fast, drink too little water, eat too much, do not recognize or correct disease until it has become chronic and almost incurable. Yet from time immemorial our sages have been trying to teach us differently. Some of the most famous sayings in the world are simply rules for retaining health and increasing pleasurable longevity. Statisticians say that the majority of centenarians eat sparingly. Montaigne writes: "Man does not die, he kills himself." And don't you remember translating that passage of Cicero: "Nature has lent us life at interest, like money, and has fixed no day for its payment"? And Cowper's couplet runs: "Men deal with life as children with their play, Who first misuse, then cast their toys away."
Nowadays it is not considered the most effective means to preach the building of positive health and prolonging life by maxim or couplet. The present age demands precise and organized work, such as medical research, the maintenance of hospitals, sanatoria and clinics, and also the education of children in the schools. Such definite measures as these appeal to the practical American mind in the fight against tuberculosis. The effectiveness of this present-day mode of promoting a healthy, long life and fighting disease is evidenced by the gradually diminishing death rate of tuberculosis during the two and a half decades in which this method has been used. The results are encouraging. However, tuberculosis will kill more persons between the ages of 18 and 40 than any other ailment. It is still the outstanding preventable, but as yet wholly prevented, disease problem.
The Christmas Seal Campaign, under the sign of the double-barred cross, fights disease, establishes the means to promote good health, points the way to healthy old age. It preaches a gospel of sunshine, fresh air, rest and nourishing food, both as preventive and curative agents, "Medicine out of the earth, the sky, the sea, makes getting well a pleasure, and keeping young and vivid almost automatic."
THE RELIEF SOCIETY OF THE CHURCH OF JESUS CHRIST OF LATTER-DAY SAINTS
Motto—Charity Never Faileth
THE GENERAL BOARD
MRS. LOUISE YATES ROBISON President MRS. AMY BROWN LYMAN First Counselor MRS. JULIA ALLEMAN CHILD Second Counselor MRS. JULIA A. F. LUND General Secretary and Treasurer
Mrs. Emma A. Empey Mrs. Ida P. Beal Mrs. Sarah M. McLelland Mrs. Kate M. Barker Mrs. Annie Wells Cannon Mrs. Marcia K. Howells Mrs. Jennie B. Knight Mrs. Hazel H. Greenwood Mrs. Lalene H. Hart Mrs. Emeline Y. Nebeker Mrs. Lotta Paul Baxter Mrs. Mary Connelly Kimball Mrs. Cora L. Bennion Mrs. Lizzie Thomas Edward, Music Director Mrs. Amy Whipple Evans Mrs. Ethel Reynolds Smith Mrs. Rogannah C. Irvine Mrs. Nettie D. Bradford Mrs. Elise B. Alder Mrs. Inez K. Allen
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
Editor Mary Connelly Kimball Manager Louise Y. Robison Assistant Manager Amy Brown Lyman
Room 20, Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah
Magazine entered as second-class matter at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah
VOL. XVII DECEMBER, 1930 NO. 12
EDITORIAL
"Our Joyfullest Feast"
WELL may Christmas be called "Our Joyfullest Feast." Christ's coming was looked forward to with joy, his advent was heralded by angelic shouts of joy and ever since, at each recurrent anniversary of his birth, carols are heard, bells peal forth their joyous message, while pulpit and press again joyously tell of the coming of the Bethlehem Babe. From north to south and from east to west all over the globe are found men and women who bow in reverent devotion and with joy acclaim their faith in Christ the Lord.
Many people lose the joy of Christmas by making it a time to be dreaded because they spend more for Christmas giving than they can afford and overtax their strength. The message of Christmas is one of peace and good will. Christ's followers should be careful that they do not make a mockery of his birthday by being dishonest in giving what they cannot afford and by going to such extremes during the holiday time that they are physically, mentally, and spiritually exhausted. Christmas should not be characterized by an orgy of exchanging presents and of worry lest the one given is not as costly as the one received, but by a season of peace and good will and joy, when giver and receiver give and take in joyous remembrance of God's great Christmas gift to the world—his only begotten Son, who came that they who believed on him should not perish but have everlasting life.
IN addition to the giving which characterizes the Christmastide we suggest that it would be very fitting to reverently read his life, ponder well over his teachings and see how our lives square with them. It is marvelous how they have suited and been applicable to the lives of those in both the humblest and most exalted stations, and not only to those who lived when they were enunciated, but to those who live in the present century. All through the ages since they were given, Christ's teachings have been as a lamp to the feet and a light to the path, a beacon beckoning to higher place and more abundant life.
Evan Stephens
IN the death of Evan Stephens there passes from among us one who has rendered signal service to his Church and to the world of music. Twenty-two years before he died, his native land, Wales, recognizing his ability, sent two composers of international reputation, Parry and Prothero, to honor him and authoritatively constitute him "A Bard." His life has been devoted to music, as teacher, composer and director of musical bodies. In his young manhood, thousands of children attended his classes. Those having signal promise he trained individually. Later, the Tabernacle Choir achieved distinction under his able direction. In 1893 he took 250 members of that organization to the World's Fair to compete with choirs from all over the world, and won second prize. More than one judge averred that his singers should have been given first place. He has composed thousands of songs; hymns and anthems being his outstanding contribution. His name will ever be familiar to Latter-day Saints for he has put the gospel spirit and teachings into compositions that will be sung by generations yet to come. He was a tender, sympathetic friend. Many boys have been his especial care, and with fatherly devotion he looked after their training and education, going without things he desired for himself that they might have opportunities. Not only did his artistic soul delight in music, but everything beautiful appealed to him—flowers and trees, babbling brooks and mountain fastnesses, each conveyed messages to his soul and inspired many of his compositions. Quiet and unassuming, he lived his life, devoted to his art. He loved his home and his people, and they in turn honored and loved him. Blessed be his memory.
"The Life Story of Brigham Young"
A VERY valuable contribution to biographical literature is "The Life Story of Brigham Young," by his daughter, Susa Young Gates, in collaboration with her daughter, Leah D. Widtsoe. Brigham Young is an interesting character from any viewpoint. Many look upon him as a divinely inspired leader, while others are interested in him as a great pathfinder and colonizer. An earnest effort has been made to give, in this volume, a true picture of this great, many-sided man. One charm of the book is in the intimate things recounted that only a member of the family could tell, while his life history as wrought in the public eye stands out in bold relief. The book is beautifully printed and illustrated, and is published by The Macmillan Company.
Guide Lessons for February
LESSON I Theology and Testimony (First Week in February)
BOOK OF MORMON—SAMUEL THE LAMANITE
ASSIGNMENT
This lesson includes the material in the Book of Helaman, from the beginning of chapter 13 to the end of the seventh chapter of the Book of Third Nephi. The time is between B.C. 6 and A.D. 34—a period when the pendulum swings from good to evil among both Nephites and Lamanites with a swiftness that takes one's breath. If the books are available, the student will find an interesting treatment of the characters involved in the lessons in Reynolds's Dictionary of the Book of Mormon, especially under the names of Samuel, Nephi the son of Nephi, and Laconeous; and in Evans's Message and Characters of the Book of Mormon, chapter twenty-seven.
The Story
The narrative opens with the preaching of Samuel on the wall surrounding the town of Zarahemla. Samuel is a Lamanite. Having been directed of God to preach to the Nephites there, he scales the wall because the people will not let him in at the gates, and preaches to them from its top in spite of their opposition. His message, which is extremely distasteful to the inhabitants of the town, is one of warning and repentance. He assures them that they are headed for complete destruction, and that it will overtake them unless they mend their ways. Also he tells them of Christ and His work of redemption in Palestine. When Jesus is born across the waters, there will be three days of continuous light here, without any intervening darkness; and, at the time of His death, there will be a period of thirty-six hours of continuous darkness, with convulsions of the elements in the earth and in the sky.
A few of his hearers are converted and go to Nephi, who is still ministering, to be baptized. But others try to hurt him with stones and arrows. After finishing his preaching, Samuel disappears from the pages of the Book of Mormon. That happened about six years before the advent of the Savior. The very next year some of the signs which the Lamanite prophet predicted made their appearance, but were disposed of by unbelievers, at least to their own satisfaction, with the "explanation" that they were "guesses." But, when the period of continuous light appeared, there was no such explanation forthcoming, and many were converted through it. On the whole, however, the Nephites were a hardened lot. It was the Lamanites that carried the torch. Once converted, they stayed so. During this period the Gadianton band became a terrible menace to those who wished to preserve the rights and government of the people. To this gang of outlaws went all those who thought they had a grudge against the government. At one time, it seems, this secret organization became so numerous and dangerous, not to say powerful, that all the Nephites and Lamanites were compelled to assemble in one place for self-protection. Under the leadership of Laconeous and Gidgiddoni the order was finally uprooted. Towards the end of the period we are considering the political government of the Nephites became a thing of the past, and the people broke up into tribes, the binding cord in each tribe being kinship. The historian says, however, that there was a general agreement not to interfere with one another and that this rule was strictly observed, although the Nephites and most of the Lamanites made no pretense of holding to any religious beliefs.
Notes
1. Freedom of the Will: Perhaps nowhere in religious history is the doctrine of free agency made clearer than it is in this lesson. The statement of the doctrine comes from the Lamanite prophet, Samuel. "Ye are free," says the prophet to the Nephites; "ye are permitted to act for yourselves; for, behold, God hath given unto you a knowledge and He hath made you free." He draws the conclusion, therefore, that whoever is condemned, brings the condemnation upon himself. "Remember, my brethren, that whoever perisheth, perisheth unto himself; and whosoever doeth iniquity, doeth it unto himself." "God," he continues, "hath given unto you that ye might know good from evil, and He hath given unto you that ye might choose life or death; and ye can do good and be restored unto that which is good, or have that which is good restored unto you; or ye can do evil, and have that which is evil restored unto you."
2. Lines Wiped Out: Here, for the first time since Lehi's family came to the New World, we find all the Americans of the same color, creed, and nation, although not for long. In the preceding lesson we learned that the Lamanites were converted to the teachings of Nephi and his brother. But these hitherto benighted people still retained their copper color. In this lesson, however, we are told that, not only did the Nephites and the Lamanites become one people politically, but that the Lamanites became white like the Nephites. In both lessons the former became the teachers of the latter in religion. Particularly were the Lamanites steadfast in the Church, once they saw the light. Samuel points out this fact in his sermon on the wall of Zarahemla. "The more part of them," he says, "are in the path of their duty, and they do walk circumspectly before God, and they do observe to keep His commandments and His statutes and His judgments according to the law of Moses.... Therefore as many of them as have come to this, ye know of yourselves are firm and steadfast in the faith, and in the thing wherewith they have been made free. And ye know also that they have buried their weapons of war, and they fear to take them up lest by any means they should sin. They will suffer themselves that they be trodden down and slain by their enemies, and will not lift their swords against them, and this because of their faith in Christ."
3. A New Nephite War Policy: In this period we observe a deviation on the part of the Nephites in their policy respecting killing their enemies. It will be recalled that heretofore, whenever there was a war between the Nephites and the Lamanites, the Nephites would never take an enemy's life if they could help it. This seems to have been their invariable policy in war with the Lamanites. In this period, however, Gidgiddoni does not follow that policy in his encounters with the Gadianton robbers. What is the reason? The historian does not give the reason, but we can easily gather it from the spirit of the Book of Mormon and the general practice of the people. It is this: The Lamanites had not been trained in the distinctions so well recognized by the Nephites—the distinctions, namely, between right and wrong from the higher point of view. In more than one place we have had occasion to point this fact out in these lessons. Not so, however, with the Gadianton robbers. They were Nephites. They had been accustomed to the moral and religious distinctions of Nephite life and culture. They knew, therefore, the difference between what they were doing and what they ought to have done. In other words, they were more accountable for their actions than the Lamanites because their knowledge was greater. And so Gidgiddoni is not satisfied to defeat the robber band merely. He shuts the door to their escape when they are overcome in battle. He surrounds them, and orders his men to slay them right and left. All who are not taken prisoners have, on this policy, been put to death—as they richly deserve to be. Moreover, the leader of this outlaw band, which must have numbered tens of thousands, is hanged to a tree, after which the tree is cut down with no little ceremony and shouting. It is almost a religious festival, this hanging. The explanation lies, not in the greater desire of the Nephite commander for blood, but in the greater culpability of the enemy on the assumption that they knew what they were doing. This was the end, during that period, of the Gadianton robbers among the ancient Americans.
4. Political Anarchy: At one time during this short period of twenty-seven years crime became so prevalent as to tax all the resources of what government there was to put a stop to it. That was toward the end of the period, after the Nephite nation had broken up into tribes. The division of the people was not into Nephites and Lamanites any more, nor into believers and non-believers in Christ, but rather into those who were for law and order, on the one hand, and those who were for organizing a government of tyranny and oppression, on the other hand. And so a fierce struggle ensued for mastery. The usual methods employed by the criminal element were adopted—secret killings and the customary ways of hiding their guilt and avoiding punishment. For instance: Prophets arose to warn the lawless of their evil ways, and these prophets were put to death secretly. The murders, however, were perpetrated by the judges, contrary to the law. And when complaints were lodged against the judicial murderers, their friends and kinsmen, who were very numerous, united with "almost all the lawyers and the high priests" and entered into "a covenant to combine against all righteousness." The result was, as the book tells us, that they "delivered those who were guilty from the grasp of justice and set at defiance the law and the rights of their country."
Questions and Problems
1. How do you account for the superior faithfulness of the Lamanites?
2. How does evil get such a hold as it seems to have had at this time? Discuss the predominance of the criminal element in Chicago and the bribery of judges in New York City, in this connection.
3. Why is it usually more difficult to organize the better element than the criminal? What motive actuates the latter always? How strong is that motive in man?
4. What are some of the problems that confront our American communities today? How may these be best solved, in your opinion?
LESSON II Work and Business Teachers' Topic for February
(This topic is to be given at the special teachers' meeting the first week in February)
THE RELIEF SOCIETY AS A SOCIAL OPPORTUNITY
"Society is the great educator. More than universities, more than schools, more than books, society educates."—John Dewey.
"And do I love to associate with my friends? I do, and I love to reflect and talk on eternal principles."—Brigham Young.
We receive social development in the Relief Society by—
I. Personal Contact with Women. (a) Who have like aims and aspirations. (b) Who have kindred interests. (c) Who have knowledge of the gospel and a love for its principles. (d) Who are seeking self-development. (e) Who have high standards of motherhood and child care. (f) Who are home loving and wish to preserve the standards of the home.
II. Participation in the Social Life of the Relief Society at— (a) Meetings. (b) Socials. (c) Bazaars. (d) Plays. (e) Exhibits. (f) Study Groups. (g) Trips.
A desire to contribute something to the group, to have a share in its success, brings social development of a high order.
III. Visiting Teaching. (a) Meeting women in their own homes.
1. Fosters cordial and pleasing attitude.
2. Gives opportunity for exchange of ideas.
3. Develops tact and judgment. (b) Contact with officers as their representatives develops a feeling of sisterhood. (c) Comradeship with teaching companion engenders kindred feeling with all workers.
LESSON III Literature (Third Week in February)
THE SHORT STORY IN GREAT BRITAIN, Part II
This last period of the English short story can be extended into 1930. It had its beginning in the tales, designed to suit the purposes of the moralists of the 18th and early 19th centuries, but it has now reached a place where there are almost no restrictions of subject matter, style, or treatment. This decided change began early in the 19th century and was affected by the romantic movement of Wordsworth, Keats, and others. It was a time when England was flooded by French ideas (The revolution and Napoleon had given England more to think about than morals and manners). Novelists, who had been inspired by Addison, Swift, and Defoe, had been writing books of English life, and their experiments were broadening into many fields. In fact, some forward-looking men and women had begun to write of political and social ideals, and even of education. But novels and short stories were not yet in their present-day repute. One respectable magazine advertised that it would consider novels, tales, and romances provided they were not more than three or four pages in length. Weak little tales of horror, sentiment, and pathos were appearing humbly in a few magazines. Later, the tales were strongly marked with horror and pathos. These reached their full maturity in the vivid tales of our American Edgar Allan Poe. In the 1830's these tales, either of horror or of pathos, were made into decorative gift books, and no lady's table was complete without one. Then came Sir Walter Scott, bred on the border legends, who wrote three short tales, yet whose books inspired many a writer of romantic short narratives. Over in America, Poe, Hawthorne, and Irving had brought perfection of style and humor into the short story. Still, the English writers were slow to grasp the Americans' technique. Dickens, Thackeray, Gaskell, and others were writing short narratives along with their long novels, but not one of them achieved the short story as we know it today. Of them all, Dickens rose to the greatest fame. Much of his success in the field of short narratives was due to his Christmas books. Even now there are few persons who do not know "Scrooge" and "Tiny Tim"; and the "Christmas Carol" and "Cricket on the Hearth" have not been displaced in our Christmas literature. The Dickens' stories were long and meandering, but they contained his characterizations—without which there would be no Dickens. With Charles Reade and Henry Kingsley came a transitional period. Reade's story, "The Box Tunnel," gives the effect of a single idea. However, it was not until 1877, when Robert Louis Stevenson's first story, "A Lodging for the Night" appeared that England awoke to the modern short story. It was right that Stevenson should be the first to produce it. He was steeped with French culture, and the short story is French in its art of restraint and grace.
Stevenson is best known in the short story field for his impressionistic stories. Perhaps "Markheim" is the best liked. This story does not appear in the text (and his one story is not listed for class use because of the difficulty of the dialect), but it is worth the effort of finding it in another collection. It is a psychological story—of a man's struggle with himself and his decision. Aside from grace of style, Stevenson will live because he has made his characters act and made them English. And his subject matter is decidedly Anglo-Saxon. If Stevenson made the short story beautiful, it remained for Kipling to carry it into new fields. Of all the English writers during the latter part of the 19th and the forepart of the 20th centuries, Kipling is the most vigorous, versatile, and highly gifted. His stories carry a glamor no other English writer has been able to obtain. This glamor is due to many things; racial contrasts, foreign settings, descriptions that made the reader smell and feel the Orient, and a sense of England's might, and above all to the fact that everything he wrote was interesting. Kipling was often journalistic, an accusation that covers poor taste, sensationalism, and even vulgarity, some critics claim, but he has written a few of the most exquisite stories in the English language. The "Brushwood Boy" and "They" are two of his best. Neither he nor any other contemporary English writer is found in the text, but he must not be neglected. The two stories mentioned, "Without Benefit of Clergy," "The Man Who Would Be King," "The Return of Imray," "The Man Who Was," and a hundred others are worth reading. Helped by Kipling, England took the short story to herself, and her writers today rival America's. There are but few English novelists who do not write short stories. John Galsworthy, Conrad, Hardy, Hewlett, Aldous Huxley, Moore, Rebecca West, Katherine Mansfield, Masefield, James Joyce and J. M. Barrie are only a few whose names are familiar to American readers.
Brief Summary of the Short Story in Great Britain
1. Short story first came into England with the Roman church.
2. France next influenced the story by means of her fables, fairy tales, and miracle stories.
3. Chaucer then took the medieval tales and made them alive with characters of contemporary England.
4. After a long period Italy's influence was next felt.
5. England's talents and tastes then began to improve and she learned to value home writers—Addison, Steele, Defoe, etcetera.
6. Romantic movement, with its sensational and melodramatic tales came next; and was followed by the modern short story.
Suggested Stories
The White Trout by Samuel Lover.* Dickens' The Old Man's Tale of the Queer Client. Wilkie Collins' A Terribly Strange Bed. Thomas Hardy's Squire Petrick's Lady. Oscar Wilde's The Selfish Giant.* George Moore's Julia Cahill's Curse. Arthur Morrison's That Brute Simmons.*
*The starred stories are all brief and delightful reading.
Brief Biographical Sketches
Samuel Lover is the Irishman of romantic legend. He had a joyousness of spirit that sorrows, illness, and financial reverses could not quench. In him were housed many talents. At various times he was a painter, a caricaturist, a composer of songs, a singer, a dramatist, and a writer of fairy tales and poems. It was his stock-broker father's plans to make Samuel into a business man, but at seventeen the boy set himself up as an artist. One of his miniatures made him famous and he moved from Dublin, where he was born in 1797, to London. It was here that he wrote his delightful "Irish Legends and Tales," from which "The White Trout" is taken. His songs, "Rory O'Moore," "Widow Machree," "The Girl I Left Behind Me," and a great many others are still loved and sung. In 1842 he wrote his best novel, "Handy Andy." Then his eyesight began to fail him and for very necessary reasons he took himself to America, where supposedly every one was wealthy. At any rate America lost many a dollar when he departed, but she was the richer for the memories of his "Irish Evenings." It was next England's turn to listen to "American Evenings," and there was no longer any worry in the Lover family about bank accounts. His health now gradually failed him; he died on the Isle of Jersey in 1868.
Charles Dickens
When Charles Dickens came to America, people stood in line for hours to get tickets for his entertainments. He wrote home that each ticket-buyer was furnished with a little bag of bread and meat, two blankets, and a bottle of whiskey, and thus outfitted they would sleep on the pavement the whole night before his performances. Regardless of the truth of this description, no president or hero, unless it were Lindbergh, has ever received quite the ovation Dickens did on his visits to America. And he came the second time after he had written many caustic criticisms of us. Today his name is more of a household word than any other writer, living or dead. To be very brief with him, he was born at Landport in Portsea on the southern coast of England, February 7, 1812, and he died at his home, Gadshill Place, June 9, 1870. It is said of him that he overcame two of a writer's greatest obstacles—poverty and lack of an education. In appearance, he was small with clear, blue, intelligent eyes and quick movements. As the years passed on and he wrote an almost impossible number of novels and stories, he grew more strained and nervous. Perhaps as a compensation for the poverty of his earlier years, he was inclined to be foppish in his dress. At nineteen he became a reporter. A few years later he dropped a little story into a "dark letter box in a dark office up a dark court in Fleet Street." Before he died, he was the most famous author in the world, and in addition to his many novels, stories, and Christmas books, he had managed a company of actors and given countless numbers of personal appearances, where he read his stories and impersonated his characters. It is said of him that he did a great deal to help the condition of the poor in England, to establish prison reform, and to forward education; yet he discharged a servant girl because he objected to her language, which she, poor thing, could not help. He was tender, and kind, and sympathetic, and gave liberally to his family and friends and to any one in want; yet he was vain and conceited and he estranged his father and mother and many of his friends by his caricatures of them, and he made his lovely and intelligent wife's life miserable for a good many years.
William Wilkie Collins
Tales of mystery and horror have always been popular, and in late years the detective story and novel have grown even more so. "The Crime Club," made up of members who regularly subscribe for such books, is one of the modern developments of this kind of literature. The fact that many people, daily employed in strenuous mental work, find the completest relaxation in mystery stories is one of the reasons for their popularity. A second reason is another variation of the "escape mechanism." People read these stories and for a time forget their own troubles. William Wilkie Collins (1824-1889) is a skillful writer of mystery tales, one of which, "A Terribly Strange Bed," appears in the text. He believed that plot was the most important part of the story, and it was his aim to make his readers follow his stories with breathless absorption. No one can read "A Terribly Strange Bed" and say that Collins failed. When Wilkie Collins was young, he was surrounded with the atmosphere of art, but his inclination was for writing. At first he wrote only for his amusement, being in turn a business man and a lawyer. He finally found that he could be more successful in writing. Some of his best collections are "Moonstones," "A Woman in White," and "After Dark."
Oscar Wilde
Oscar Wilde was a genius and an artist, but he was a man of too much artifice. He was born in 1854 at Dublin of distinguished parents. It was always his misfortune that he valued art above life. He was indifferent to almost everything save sensuous beauty; cared nothing for social questions of the day, though his imprisonment in an English jail was reflected in his most significant poem "Reading Gaol." Yet he wrote beautiful poetry, brilliant dramas, and charming fantasies, and as a stylist he has not been excelled. Passion and affectation made Oscar Wilde weak in character. However, he could produce beauty, and because of this beauty he is assured a place among the immortals. For years he has been a favorite subject for biographers; perhaps the truth has not yet been learned about him. Two of his plays that have been produced almost every place that English is spoken are the "Importance of Being Earnest" and "Lady Windemere's Fan." "The Selfish Giant" is found in his "The Happy Prince and Other Tales."
George Moore
George Moore was born in Ireland, County Mayo, in 1852, of a distinguished statesman's family. He is as many-sided a person as can be expected even of the great celebrity he is. In him there is the pagan, the Protestant, the artist, the realist, the stylist, the patriot, the anti-Irishman, and the dramatist. And he started life a Catholic. When he was quite young he wrote poetry—his "Poems of Passion" being his best known—but he lost the gift as he grew older. Painting he loved better than anything in life, and had the sense, after giving it a fair trial, to know that he could not win fame by following it. However, his essays on painting are among the best of his works. It was hard for him to separate himself from his writing—essays, novels, poems, dramas, or stories. Some part of him is always in them in a vivid way. At the time of the Boer War London disgusted him and he came back to Dublin for a ten year's stay. One of his friends during this period said that the reason Moore grew so dissatisfied with Ireland was that, brilliant actor that he was, he could find no audience. All of his Irish intimates were equally gifted in acting, and Moore could not be happy in the background. After ten years he disowned Ireland and her seeming futility. And Ireland hated him for his "Parnell's Island." Not even his "Untilled Field," a collection of beautiful Irish folk tales, could heal the hurt that Moore had made. A critic of Moore said that he was a man who by personal taste liked to see his stories end happily, but would not allow them to do so for the sake of his art. Moore had great insight into people, especially into women. Often he wrote of the lowly. Where Dickens would have said of these people: "How amusing," Moore's reaction was: "How alike everywhere is the human heart."
Questions
Which of the stories that you have read do you think best achieves the single impression? Why?
What are the essentially British characteristics that you find in these stories? Could any of the stories have been written with another country for a background? Discuss.
In which story or stories is plot emphasized, in which character, and in which setting?
How does George Moore show his feeling toward the Catholic church in "Julia Cahill's Curse?"
Do you think you could recognize other stories by these same authors? Discuss why?
Why would Morrison's "That Brute Simmons" make a capital one-act play? How has Morrison achieved humor in this story? (Every one will enjoy Simmons.)
LESSON IV Social Service (Fourth Week in February)
Personality Study: How to Change Persons
Based on Overstreet's "Influencing Human Behavior," pages 143-167.
Our previous lessons for the most part have dealt with the relatively simple and frequent methods which we employ to temporarily influence human conduct. We wish to capture someone's attention. How is it best accomplished? We wish to persuade a person to do this or that. What means are appropriate to employ? Our desire is to make our speech or writing more effective. How can psychology be of service here so that the ideas we express will stick long enough to accomplish the desired end? Such have been the problems of our first four lessons and if we have been taking the work seriously enough, we are fairly well prepared to consider the next five lessons. We are now to attempt to understand the possibilities of influencing human behavior in more fundamental ways; also something of the more difficult and probably more interesting techniques that must be used in making these rather permanent changes in ourselves and others.
Many people have the notion that our personalities are fixed for good or ill at birth or before. They say we are as helpless in making honest-to-goodness changes in our personal traits and characteristics as we would be in changing the color of our eyes. We have all heard them repeat with almost convincing effect such cliches as these: "She's redheaded so you know it is her nature to be hot-tempered;" "He's a chip from the old block and can't help but be that way;" "Human nature never changes," etc. Even the sayings about leopards not being able to change their spots and of sows returning immediately to wallow in the mire are given as if they applied with equal force to human beings.
We have already had emphasized quite a different point of view in our previous lessons. We know that most competent psychologists would have us regard our personalities as not necessarily static or fixed, but as being still in the making. They would have us know that the saying that "human nature never changes" is at most only partly true. Probably no one is capable of settling for us the problem of the relative importance of heredity and environment or of the exact proportion of our behavior traits that really are inborn on the one hand or acquired on the other. As Overstreet says, "It is not always easy to say precisely where the human nature that is unchangeable leaves off and the human nature that is changeable begins." However, we can be sure that those parts of our behavior that are tentative, conscious, plastic and changing in character are in reality as much human nature as those parts that are characterized as being fixed, automatic, unconscious, unchanging, etc. In short, some parts of human nature are relatively static and rigid, so to speak, while other parts are subject to change and development.
That human beings are not on the same plane as the great mass of the animal kingdom when it comes to considering the possibilities for individual change and development is well stated in the following short quotation from Bagley's Educative Process, pages 30-31: "The lower animals are born with nerve connections already fixed and, except in the higher vertebrates, comparatively permanent and stable. In the nervous system of man, the entire cerebrum is practically unorganized at birth. It is a mass of latent possibilities, and whatsoever connections are made later are due almost entirely to the forces of the environment and not to the forces of heredity."
The author of our text rightly insists that our insight into the nature and possibilities of human personality will be improved by considering it as a large number of more or less unified habit-systems rather than as an unanalyzable whole. As we said in Lesson Two, personality is not a mysterious entity—something wholly apart from our everyday habits, attitudes and ideals. It is made up of "all those traits and characteristics of (one's) self that make or mar his efficiency in dealing with other individuals." In this same lesson Bagby was quoted as saying that the traits of personality are "essentially... products of the training and the experience through which the individual has passed." From all of this it follows that personalities can be changed and that an important entering wedge for the improvement of a personality is to diagnose some of the habit deficiencies and then proceed with the "comparatively simple step-by-step process of redirecting and remoulding specific systems of habits."
In understanding how to go about the job of building habits we are helped by a consideration of methods employed in training animals. In the text and also in the supplementary reference given below, will be found interesting accounts of how certain conditioned responses (or habits) are developed in the case of dogs. These experiments are important because they furnish us a simple pattern of the way all habit formation takes place. They help us to see the futility of admonition and exhortation as means of initiating the kind of habits we are interested in developing. If they are thoughtfully considered we can even understand how it is that the techniques we use at times may result in establishing habits absolutely opposed to the ones we think we are developing. For example we may unwittingly make misbehavior seem interesting to the child by the fact that it actually turns out to be exciting or profitable to him. In this connection read with especial care pages 162 and 163 of our text. It is perhaps hard for us to believe that in our efforts to help young people we use a technique which associates virtue with "dullness, suppression, scolding (and) being bad * * * with gaiety, approval, excitement, mastery."
Speaking of rewards and punishments we may summarize in part, in this paragraph a previous discussion of this subject by the writer: (1) Character development like other growth takes place from within and does not result from merely having children go through the outward motions of right conduct. (2) Corporal and other forms of severe punishment nearly always complicate the process of reforming the wrong-doer. At best they constitute only a beginning and should be followed by evidences of "love unfeigned." (See D. & C. 121:41-44.) (3) Rewards and punishments should be just and appropriate. They should seem to follow the acts as their natural and invariable consequences. Therefore they should not be so artificial or capricious as not to be operative in any good social group. (4) Learners should not be denied the advantage of making some mistakes, especially such as are not too serious or incompatible with safety. Some guidance in the early stages of each learning process may be quite helpful, but who has not seen numerous examples of pitiful personalities with whom parental or teacher-guidance has been carried too far?
No discussion of the topic of this lesson would seem complete to the writer without a quotation of the classic rules given by William James for the formation of habits. They are as follows: (1) "In the acquisition of a new habit, or the leaving off of an old one, we must take care to launch ourselves with as strong and decided an initiative as possible. (2) Never suffer an exception to occur till the new habit is securely rooted in your life. (3) Seize the very first possible opportunity to act on every resolution you make, and on every emotional prompting you may experience in the direction of the habits you aspire to gain. (4) Keep the faculty of effort alive in you by a little gratuitous exercise every day."
Supplementary Reference
Poulson—"Human Nature," pages 7-24, 31-32, 74-82. (This reference is to the Teacher Training text used throughout the Church during 1927-28. Since nearly 10,000 copies of this little book were distributed at that time we are assuming that there are enough of them still available to justify the reference to it in this connection although it is now out of print. Future references to supplementary material such as this will be omitted in forthcoming lessons if the editor of the Magazine receives information at once that the little book is not available in most of the wards and that the material referred to in it is not actually helpful. Those wards not being able to locate this supplementary reference can get along very well with the material furnished by Overstreet and in the Magazine.)
A Few of the Possible Problems for Discussion
1. Distinguish between social heredity and physical heredity. Why is social heredity so very important in human development?
2. Discuss rather fully the statement that "human nature never changes."
3. Why is it so important for us not to develop too many fixed ideas? How is eternal life and progress related to our open-mindedness and teachability here and now? When do people become old fogies?
4. Give the best definition of personality that you can. Show how habit-systems are related to one's personality.
5. Discuss each of the rules of habit formation quoted from James.
6. Discuss the propositions given above on rewards and punishments.
7. Relate the circumstances of the profound changing of a personality given in the text, pages 149-152. Add an account of a similar case.
8. In what ways may habits be our servants and set us free so to speak? How may they enslave us or hinder our progress? Discuss fully.
THE VIRGIN AND CHILD WITH ST. PAUL AND ST. GEORGE
Such As I By Bertha A. Kleinman
I hope I never climb so high Above the swarted plain, That homely tasks that test and try Shall humble me or mortify Or kindle my disdain.
I hope I never learn so much Of rare philosophy That I shall lose the "common touch" The home folks atmosphere and such Of those who do for me.
I never want that fling of power— Not even for a day— That anything obscure should cower Or make of me a conning tower Of things you do and say.
I never want to soar so far That plain things pass me by, My vision though it trail a star, Begins where home and home tasks are, Mid plain folks such as I.
Earthbound By Grace Zenor Pratt
Sometimes my soul clings to this earth, I know not why Oftimes the dross, the crude, the minor things Appeal, and draw me on relentless wings; I love the ease, the pampering of self— The laughter of the multitude, the careless smile, I love the swish of silks, the music of the dance— All this has power to hold me, to entrance. It is not ever so, for there are times When the spirit rises from the earthy way— Glimpses of mystic vales, fragments of song Have power to fill my soul with ecstasy. All my temptations—comforts held so dear, Are naught to me when heaven seems so near. How complex is this earth-bound soul of mine, Clinging to life with all its cares and joys, Seeking an upward path with groping hands, Thrusting aside the doubting which annoys, Searching for light, and failing, strives, once more © To glimpse a clearer vision of that shore. Back to the Fountain Head By Theodore E. Curtis Back yonder in the ancient night The prophet Malichi Beheld afar, in vision bright, A judgment from the sky Descending like an avalanche And in the flaming day He saw the wicked, root and branch Pass from the earth away. Before that dreadful day would come Elijah would be sent To plant in every Christian. Home The ancient covenant— To turn the children's hearts again To their repentant dead And weld the old parental chain Back to the fountain head. But look! (Oh age of miracles) A sudden burst of light Breaks from the Kirtland Temple halls Across the dusky night. Elijah comes! Hail to his name! The judgment is at hand, His spirit kindles like a flame Encircling the land. According to the seer's dream His priesthood is restored— Another monumental stream Into the ocean poured. The mystery is cleared away The eager saints arise, And lo! Our temple—towers today Rekindled in the skies. Get out of Debt Pay off the mortgage on the monthly payment loan we offer to home owners, owning property is the choice residential districts of Sale Lake, Ogden and Provo, Utah Old Fashioned ROYAL FRUIT CAKE HOLIDAYS An old-fashioned fruit cake is necessary part of the joyous Yuletide season. Just ask your grocer for a ROYAL FRUIT CAKE. It's made with nine different kinds of fruit— and fresh eggs and creamery butter! Order from your grocer Made by the makers of LONG ROYAL BREAD ROYAL BAKINGCOMPANY Salt Lake City and Ogden The Gift and its wrappings, Both are Here Be it Appropriate Book or Other Gift or Just the Paper-Seals, Tags and Ribbonzene to Wrap your Gifts You Every Xmas Need can be supplied by Deseret Book Company P.O. Box 1793 44 East on South Temple St Salt Lake City, Utah When Buying Mention Relief Society After A Million Year Blue Blaze Coal Comes to you from glittering seams deep in the earth, filled with heat energy. Ignites Readily Burns Steadily Remarkable free from smoke, ash and clinkers. Blue Blaze Coal Company 1102 Walker Bank Building Salt Lake City, Utah Sego MILK for Puddings Pies Cream’s Rival At All Grocer’s What Shall I Give for Christmas? The Relief Society Magazine What could a dollar purchase that would be as acceptable as a year's subscription to the Relief Society Magazine? A subscription will be a monthly reminder of your love. Why not, as an organization, subscribe for the Relief Society Magazine for the widows in your Ward? Also for your lady missionaries? Note: Send the name and address where the Magazine is to be sent and your own name and we will send a card of greeting bearing your name to your friend. WHEN DOES YOUR SUBSCRIPTION EXPIRE? Why not subscribe now and make sure of receiving every number for the next year. When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine 1102 Walker Bank Building Salt Lake City, Utah Creams Rival At All Grocer's Christmas Cards That reflect your Personality  HERE you will find Cards in infinite variety of artistic designing and appropriate greetings.... Distinctive cards to express your individuality.... See this superb collection while it is complete.... Choose now..... Your name can be imprinted on the Christmas cards you send out this year at very small additional cost.We are prepared to take care of this for you, matching | your name with the type on the cards you select. The Deseret News Press 29 Richards St. Salt Lake City REMEMBER: Select Your Cards Now ALREADY SUPERIOR— NOW BETTER STILL! MOUNTAINEER OVERALLS. Equipped with STOP-LOSS POCKETS wear longer—give greater satisfaction The same famous "Mountaineer" quality of materials, design and workmanship—with these famous new pockets, which really protect your tools and ghee etc., included at no extra cost you. Ask for them at your Dealer's!. Mountaineer Overalls and Work Suits (equipped with Stop-Loss Pockets) _ Are Manufactured by Z C. M. I. CLOTHING FACTORY Salt Lake City When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine MRS OLIVIA P Jensen  32RD EAST 103 Brigham City, Utah PARENTS— _Parents-Your Problem Solved |The problem of selecting a college with which to entrust the business training of your sons and daughters is of the utmost importance. Human lives are involved—your own flesh and blood- and the training received will become an inseparable p of those lives. If good it will bring success and I if poor. It will prove a handicap for life.. The development of character is the chief aim of all education, and you want to be sure that, your sons - and daughters will be surrounded by good influences. You | want them to gain in business integrity as well as well as in knowledge and technical ability, and no matter how good their home training has been their character will be influenced by the-environment in which receive their business education. At L. D. S. The maintenance of high moral standard is considered of first importance, and when you. Ent ' your sons and daughters to our, care you may be s that they will be surrounded by influences that will make for upright manhood and: womanhood, as well as for educational thoroughness. Doesn't this appeal to you? You cannot estimate in dollars and cents the advantage of having your daughters: receive business training amid lev and refining influences. You need have no fear in sending them to us alone, for we will take your place in looking after their mental, moral and welfare, and you can rest assured that when they leave: us they fully equipped for the future in every sense of the word. LDS Business College Enter any Monday. When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine
