Vol. XI. JANUARY No. 1 1924 CONTENTS The Dreamer. Portrait of Claire Stewart Boyer. Child Mrs. Claire Stewart Boyer Mrs. Jeannette A. Hyde The Eliza Roxey Snow Memorial Contest. New Year's Editorial Martha Ann Smith Harris.... Richard P. Harris 11 National Council of Women 19 Miss Zalia Elsie C. Carroll 21 Recommendations of General Board Respecting Maternity and Health Contagious and Infectious, Diseases and Quarantine Regulations....... Dr. Jane W. Skolfield 31 The Companionship of Parents and Children Julia A. F, Lund 34 Notes from the Field. Amy Brown Lyman 42, Guide Lessons for March 46 —Organ of the Relief Society of the Church of ~. Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints Room 20 Bishop's Bldg. Salt Lake City, Utah $3.00 a Year—Single Copy, 10c Canada and Foreign, $1.25 a Year—l5c Single Copy Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah Begin Now to Plan. An Electrical Gifts There are so many appropriate and useful electrical gifts that you have only to choose the right one! Electric table appliances, lamps, irons,— toy ranges and toy trains for the children— a host of gifts that will be greatly appreciated. Utah Power & Light Co. EFFICIENT PUBLIC SERVICE  Temple and Burial Clothes Complete Suits for Men and Women. Variety of Grades and Prices Prompt and Careful Attention to Mail-Telephone-Telegraph Orders Open Daily, 9 a.m.—5 p.m. General Board Relief Society "Puritan Model White" 23 Bishop's Building meet ee: 72 So. Main Salt Lake City, Utah Phone Wasatch 3286 S 2nd TREADLE MACH'S TAKEN IN WHITE SEWING MACHINE CO. —Quality First with W. M. McCONAHAY THE JEWELER 64 So. Main:: Phone Was. 1821 Salt Lake City, Utah When Shopping Mention Relief Society Magazine This is Your Privilege To— Visit the Adult Work Shop for the Blind, 120 East 1st South, Old City Hall, and see the blind adults in action making carpets, rugs, couch covers, pillow tops, clothes bags, and many other useful articles. By buying their products, we are making it possible for the Blind to support themselves, thus bringing happiness and contentment into their lives. It is the duty of those who can see, to make it possible for these ambitious and industrious people to live and be happy. A visit to the shop will convince you that you can be of great assistance to them by creating a market for the things they produce. Phone Hy. 1658-R. From 8 a. M. To 12 m. Individual Sacrament Sets Now in Stock BEST IN THE MARKET WILL LAST A LIFE TIME 36 GLASSES IN EACH TRIAL RECOMMENDED BY PATRONS. REFERENCES FURNISHED Made especially for L. D. S. Churches, and successfully used in Utah and Intermountain region, also in all Missions in the United States, Europe, and Pacific Islands. Basic metal, Nickel Silver, heavily plated with Solid Silver. SIMPLE, SANITARY, DURABLE Satisfaction guaranteed. Inquiries cheerfully answered THE LATEST ACKNOWLEDGEMENT Bishop's Office, Bern, Idaho, May 2, 1921. "I am in receipt of the Individual Sacrament Set, consisting of four trays and the proper number of glasses.; Pav > "Everything arrived in' good condition. We are very pleased with it. I take this occasion to thank you for your kindness." BUREAU OF INFORMATION * Ask your dealer for Z. C. M. I. Factory Made Kiddies' Allovers DUTCH CUT They are the famous Mountaineer Brand in dark blue, light blue, striped and khaki Mothers—they are just what you need for the little tots—and the kiddies like them too; Temple Block Salt Lake City THE NEW YEAR – Me thought I looked upon the year to be, That, like a seraph, bright and wondrous shone; And, standing at his side, I seemed to see The mighty figure of the year that's gone. Ah, so resplendent was the form and face Of that New Year mine eyes ached at the sight. In in the features of the Old did trace The stern repose that came with ended fight.. The past year proudly showed his many scars,  And spoke of deeds the future yet shall pen; The other told of Peace when hates and wars, No more shall dwarf or shake the souls of men: The Old Year battles knew where millions died, The gates Divine the New Year opens wide! ALFRED LAMBOURNE. Editor's Note: This poem, published in the Deseret News 1918-1919 is still timely and is one of the good things that bears repetition. Individual Sacrament Sets Now in Stock BEST IN THE MARKET WILL LAST A LIFE TIME 36 GLASSES IN EACH TRAY RECOMMENDED BY PATRONS. REFERENCES FURNISHED Made especially for L. D. S. Churches, and successfully used in Utah and Intermountain region, also in all Missions in the United States, Europe, and Pacific Islands. Basic metal, Nickel Silver, heavily plated with Solid Silver. SIMPLE, SANITARY, DURABLE Satisfaction guaranteed. Inquiries cheerfully answered THE LATEST ACKNOWLEDGEMENT Bishop's Office, Bern, Idaho, May 2, 1921. "I am in receipt of the Individual Sacrament Set, consisting of four trays and the proper number of glasses. "Everything arrived in good condition. We are very pleased with it. I take this occasion to thank you for your kindness." BUREAU OF INFORMATION —Ask your dealer for Z. C. M. I. Factory Made Kiddies' Allovers — DUTCH CUT They are the famous Mountaineer Brand in dark blue, light blue, striped and khaki Mothers—they are just what you need for the little tots—and the kiddies like them too Nel Temple Block Salt Lake City THE NEW YEAR Methought I looked upon the year to be, That, like a seraph, bright and wondrous shone; And, standing at his side, I seemed to see -The mighty figure of the year that's gone. Ah, so resplendent was the form and face Of that New Year mine eyes ached at the sight. J in the features of the Old did trace The stern repose that came with ended fight.. The past year proudly showed his many scars, And spoke of deeds the future yet shall pen; The other told of Peace when hates and wars, No more shall dwarf or shake the souls of men: The Old Year battles knew where millions died, The gates Divine the New Year opens wide! ALFRED LAMBOURNE. Editor's Note: This poem, published in the Deseret News 1918-1919 is still timely and is one of the good things that bears repetition. SARAH AHLSTROM NELSON Mrs. REXBURG, IDAHO. 14 The Dreamer By Mrs. Sarah Ahlstrom Nelson _ Rexburg, Idaho, Awarded First Prize. I sat and dreamed,. Unmindful that the day was passing on, That humble duties waited to be done; My mind on pinnacles. Of castles fair, Ambition mounting on a golden stair. And, as I wandered in enchanted lands, I neither saw nor heeded baby hands_ Outstretched in sweet and dimpled loveliness, A coaxing invitation to caress. Distasteful cares of life I bade begone. Forgetting Duty's urgent call IT still dreamed on. I sat and dreamed Now listened to the sound of pattering feet, > Now childhood's laughter, innocent and sweet. The flower-decked scene appeared not to my view, Now fleecy clouds with mountains peeping through, The murmuring brook, the droning of the bee, » Earth's sweetest songs no music held for me. Ignoring Nature's wealth of beauties rare, Self-centered, grasping at elusive-air, Still gazing toward the distant horizon, turned my eyes from love and joy And still dreamed on. I sat and dreamed And longed for power to make my dreams come true. And while my eyes sought skies of endless blue, My life seemed to become a broken stair, With more of pain than I knew how to bear, Of hopes deferred that tried my inmost soul, Of yawning chasms 'twixt myself and goal.
Till, in despair, I roused myself at last To find the evening shadows deepening fast, And drowsy birds still chirping in their trees; All things seemed peaceful and at rest but me.
How could I know that since the morning's dawn Life's sweetest gifts had passed me by While I dreamed on?
MRS. PARLEY NELSON, REXBURG, IDAHO.
Child By Mrs. Claire Stewart Boyer, Salt Lake City Awarded Second Prize
Dreamer — Questioner Teller of Tales, You stand before me, And I see Great visions in your eyes, Visions unknown but wise— You know eternity.
But Life as yet is just a parable To ponder on, Revealing, year by year, Man's blundering To God: And you, a stranger in a foreign land As yet can't understand.
But you can take the bits of wonderment Fast slipping from your once-celestial hold, And, blending them with earth's most transient lights, Great tales unfold—
Tales that make wise men Pause And rich men stare, And both turn to the cross again In Prayer.
THE Relief Society Magazine Vol. XI JANUARY, 1924 No. 1
The Eliza Roxey Snow Memorial Contest
The Magazine greets its readers of the new year with the results of the Eliza Roxey Snow Memorial contest. Forty-seven poems were submitted, two of the number arriving too late to be entered. The judges were Mrs. Annie Wells Cannon, of the General Board, Professor Harrison R. Merrill, of the Brigham Young University, and Miss Irene Tolton, of the faculty of the University of Utah. Before the poems were submitted to the judges a sifting committee went over them, selecting what they deemed to be the best, in order that the work of the judges might be lightened. As a result of the sifting, twenty poems were submitted to the judges. This sifting committee consisted of Mrs. Annie Wells Cannon, Mrs. Lottie Paul Baxter, Mrs. Julia A. F. Lund, and Mrs. Rosannah C. Irvine. The judges handled the material separately, never having had a meeting, yet their judgment was practically unanimous. The first prize for The Dreamer is awarded to Mrs. Parley Nelson, of Rexburg, Idaho; the second, Child, to Mrs. Claire Stewart Boyer, of Salt Lake City. A number of poems received honorable mention. They are the poems, respectively, of Mrs. Annie D. Palmer, of Provo, Mrs. Minnie Iverson Hodapp, of Salem, Mrs. Lucy Wright Snow, of Royal Oak, Michigan, Mrs. Hazel Washburn, of Kirtland, New Mexico, and Mrs. Hattie Critchlow Jensen, of Salt Lake City. All of these poems will be published in due course of time and paid for at the regular Magazine rate. Other poems not receiving the first or second award or honorable mention that have sufficient merit for publication will be published and paid for. We congratulate Mrs. Nelson and Mrs. Boyer, also those who have been fortunate enough to receive honorable mention and suggest that they do not fail to cultivate their gift, for the gift of song has always been regarded as one of the prime gifts of the gods.
EDITORIAL
Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah
Motto—Charity Never Faileth
THE GENERAL BOARD
MRS. CLARISSA SMITH WILLIAMS - - - - - President MRS. JENNIE BRIMHALL KNIGHT - - - - - First Counselor MRS. LOUISE YATES ROBISON - - - - - Second Counselor MRS. AMY BROWN LYMAN - - - - - General Secretary and Treasurer
Mrs. Emma A. Empey Mrs. Lalene H. Hart Mrs. Amy Whipple Evans Mrs. Jeanette A. Hyde Mrs. Lotta Paul Baxter Mrs. Ethel Reynolds Smith Miss Sarah M. McLelland Mrs. Julia A. Child Mrs. Barbara Howell Richards Miss Lillian Cameron Mrs. Cora L. Bennion Mrs. Rosannah C. Irvine Mrs. Annie Wells Cannon Mrs. Julia A. F. Lund Miss Alice Louise Reynolds
Mrs. Lizzie Thomas Edward, Music Director Miss Edna Coray, Organist
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
Editor - - - - - CLARISSA SMITH WILLIAMS Associate Editor - - - - - ALICE LOUISE REYNOLDS Business Manager - - - - - Jeanette A. Hyde Assistant Manager - - - Amy Brown Lyman
Room 29, Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah
Vol. XI JANUARY, 1924 No. 1
New Year's Editorial
As the New Year approaches, the Relief Society is sending from headquarters clothing of all sorts to the Latter-day Saints who are in distress in continental Europe, particularly in Germany. This is a day when the very life of people depends upon the disposition to give. Despite all that has been done by way of amelioration for the sorely stricken countries of Europe, Governor Allen of Kansas is responsible for the statement that fifteen million women and children have perished in the Near East since 1914. One million, he tells us, were saved last year through the relief that America sent. All this suffering is a melancholy commentary on the failure of the Lord's children to live at peace with one another and promote the ways of life rather than precipitate death.
The interest taken in the Bok Peace Award is dramatic in the extreme. November 15, at midnight, was the last minute a plan could be submitted. Of the 22,165 manuscripts entered, 500 came in the last mail and many persons arrived too late to submit their plans. The brain of man seems to be fertile enough, the necessity all compelling; other requisites necessary to the establishment of peace seem to be lacking. Let us hope that the New Year has something vital to offer, and that the world's achievement on behalf of peace will not be negligible when 1925 throws open her arms to receive us. If this shall be true, then 1924 will indeed be a happy New Year.
Child Labor
The Child Labor Law was pronounced unconstitutional by the Supreme Court of the United States. The disappointment following this decision was nation-wide, for a number of reasons. An immense amount of energy had been expended both by men and women to bring about the passage of the law: much money was collected and disbursed for the same reason, all to no avail. These items, not without importance in the matter, pale into insignificance when we consider that in many parts of the United States children have again been exploited in cotton mills, in oyster beds, in factories, in mines, sometimes on farms, and sometimes on ranches. An investigation carried on in New England by the Department of Labor about a year ago disclosed the fact "that children, five, six, and seven years of age, were working late at night at occupations which strain the eyes and blister and callous the hands." They were found working, not in factories, but on factory work at home, work given out by the factories.
"Fingers were cut on the threads that must be drawn from lace. In some homes machines had been installed and fingers were crushed or cut in using them. So, till ten o'clock, or eleven o'clock, or twelve o'clock at night the children work. Of course, the smaller ones fell asleep at work before this time.
"Many families worked at home on these products during times when some of their members were ill with communicable diseases. In the families studied, at least nineteen cases of tuberculosis were reported. Occasionally a manufacturer would claim to be keeping up the system out of charitable motives. In the state where this study was made, no regulation of any kind existed."
A bill proposing an amendment to the constitution was drafted and presented to the last Congress. The Congressional committees of women, and, no doubt, interested men, worked and waited for it to become law. As the time for the closing of Congress drew near, the women were almost in a frenzy of excitement in their eagerness to obtain the passage of the measure. But they were doomed to disappointment. The Congress now in session will be charged with the important duty of passing an amendment to the constitution. Every mother heart is extended in earnest pleading that the hour of its passage be not delayed. We beseech the members of Congress to turn in fatherly solicitude toward these children. We desire a consistent child labor law that will protect children from abuse. We voice the sentiment contained in Josephine Hammond's poem which follows:
The Toll
A weary, work-worn child went by me on the street today. The day is haunted by her famished, meager face, So blank of all the light-shine of a soul. The grasping monster, Greed, sits snug behind this sacrifice; Here, in a law-environed world, a Christian race Lifts to his clutch a child's scarred hands as toll.
Our broad, evolving days somehow shall bring surcease of woe To all the stunted youth who toil in cramping bands Of ignorance to feed this wasteful gain; But, meanwhile, in the dust of stars, the gentle Christ must groan With bitter anguish as he feels these grimy hands Grip round his heart: bled that great heart in vain!
A weary, work-worn child went by me on the street today. How long, my masters, shall the little ones be made to pay?
Legitimate Child Labor
We trust there will be no misunderstanding of our attitude on child labor. We believe that nothing more unfortunate could happen to children than to have them grow up in idleness. Work is necessary for their proper development physically, mentally, and morally. Work is the law of growth and all children, who are able, should be encouraged to work. The child labor that we deplore is that labor which taxes the child beyond its strength and eventually wrecks its powers. To drag a child out of bed at four o'clock in the morning to work in oyster beds; to have a little child sitting up until midnight pulling fine threads and cutting its fingers with the threads; to have a child do practically a day's work on the farm before it goes to school, are crimes against the child and sore crimes against the next generation. This is the child labor we condemn.
We are sorry that the December issue of the magazine had gone to press when we learned of the birth of a daughter to President and Mrs. Charles H. Hart. We extend congratulations to the parents and feel sure that our subscribers who have had the opportunity of reading Mrs. Lalene H. Hart's articles, under the caption of, "Of Interest To Women" will rejoice in her good fortune and will be willing to wait until she fully recovers her strength for succeeding articles.
Martha Ann Smith Harris By her Grandson Richard P. Harris
About the year 1837, while those who believed in the divinity of the mission of Joseph Smith, the prophet, were enjoying comparative peace between the storms of persecution, the hearts of the Smith family were wrung with more than common grief by the death of Hyrum's young wife, Jerusha, leaving her husband and four motherless children. After the removal of the Church to Nauvoo, Hyrum married Mary Fielding, one of "those lovely English girls," as she and her sister Lucy were called. Although Hyrum and Mary very much loved the four children: John, who later became patriarch of the Church, and the three girls, Lovina, Jerusha, and Sarah, yet they were made very happy when a son and, two years later, a daughter, were born to them. The son, who was later to become president of the Church, they named Joseph Fielding, and the daughter, born in Nauvoo, on May 14, 1841, they named Martha Ann.
Martha's earliest memories were of going to visit her grandmother, Lucy Mack Smith, and of sitting on a little stool by her side; of seeing their dog Tige go to the store with a note in a basket and come back with whatever her grandmother had sent for; and of her father and her uncle Joseph holding her on their knees and stroking her head with their large soft hands. Her most vivid childhood memory, however, was of the death of her father, when she was but three years old. Hyrum had passed uninjured through many dangers, but this time Mary seemed to know what had happened. Far into the night she walked the floor while little Martha, just recovering from the measles, lay and watched her.
"Won't you come to bed, mother?" "My dear child, go to sleep, I will come by and by." Then after a while— "Mother, mother, come and lie down." "Not yet, my child, not yet."
Then finally a messenger came with news of the terrible tragedy and the widow dropped fainting to the floor. Later Martha was wrapped in a blanket and a man carried her a block from their home to the Mansion House and let her look at the bodies of her father and uncle.
Two years after this, Mary and the children, driven by the mob, barely escaped from the city of Nauvoo before its destruction. The mother had succeeded in getting provisions, bedding, wagons, ox-teams, her husband's big white horse, and a few other necessities, loaded on a flat boat and taken across the Mississippi river to Montrose, Iowa. The children were taken across in a skiff and they and their mother spent the night in their camp on the bank of the river listening to the bombardment of the city of Nauvoo, at that time the largest and most beautiful city in Illinois.
By going down the river to Keokuk, Iowa, Mary traded the real estate left by her husband for wagons, oxen, cows, calves, and four horses, with which she was able to get her family moved to Winter Quarters. In the spring of 1848 they left winter quarters, on their journey across the plains, arriving in Salt Lake City September 22, after more than three months of traveling. For their trip they had: four wagons (two of their own and two hired) and a big ambulance, each drawn by two yokes of oxen, except one wagon, which was drawn by two yokes of cows. They also had two more cows and some sheep which had to be driven along in the rear. Martha would do her share of the work, small as she was, gathering fuel and taking her turn at driving the loose cattle.
At one time a herd of buffaloes, which seemed miles in extent, came bellowing and running alongside the emigrant train and frightened the travelers very much, but it passed by on one side and no harm was done. The Indians who would come to visit the camp, very much admired Martha's golden hair and one chief wanted to buy it, offering his best pony for the two long braids, but her mother held the little girl tight and told them she would not cut her little Martha's hair if they would give her all their ponies.
The captain of the company, on one occasion, complained to Mary that she and her family were a nuisance and would delay the whole company. She turned to him and said: "Captain Lott, I will beat you into the valley yet, and I will not ask any help from you, either."
When about half way across the plains, one ox became very sick and dropped as if dying. This was a very serious situation, as they could not go on without the ox, and Sister Smith knew from experience that she could expect very little help from the rest of the company. She therefore brought her consecrated oil and asked her brother, Joseph Fielding, and others to administer to the ox, they did so and the ox was healed. It opened its eyes, drew up its feet, arose, and continued the journey.
One morning when it was time to yoke up, their oxen could not be found and the rest of the company went on and left them. An all day's search proved useless, and as night drew near, Mary, far from camp and feeling the task to be beyond her powers, knelt and asked the Lord for help. She had barely finished her prayer when she heard lowing in the brush not far away. She went in the direction of the sound, and there, standing in a little bushy ravine, were every one of her missing cattle. After thanking the Lord for the prompt answer to her prayer, she started them toward her camp, where she arrived with them late that night.
Just before entering the valley the company encountered a severe hail-storm which scattered their cattle in all directions and while they were still hunting for them, Mary Smith, who had been far enough behind to miss the storm, passed them with her little train and fulfilled her prediction by arriving in Salt Lake City on Saturday, the 22nd; while the rest of the company did not get in until Sunday. Sunday morning, Mary got the children all washed and brushed and dressed in their best, and Sunday afternoon she put them on the wagon and drove back to the mouth of the canyon to meet the rest of the company.
After this they settled on East Mill Creek, six miles south of Salt Lake City, where by hard work and good management they soon got a home built and had a comfortable place to live. Here the family lived in peace and contentment. Joseph and Martha, guided by the example and teachings of their mother, loved and treated as full brother and sisters the children of their father's first wife, and all grew up together as one happy family.
When Martha was "sweet sixteen," "the calico maid," with blue eyes and golden braids, she was married to William Harris, a young man of twenty-five, who was called on a mission before they had been married long enough to become acquainted. The courtship was short and the wedding sudden. William was milking at the barn one evening when Joseph F. Smith came out from town and told him he had been called on a mission and would be expected to leave within three days.
"Three days, why Brother Smith, I can't get ready to go on a mission in three days."
"Well, why not?"
"Because I would want to get married first."
"Well, why don't you?"
"Why, I don't think Martha would have me."
"Ask her and see."
So, after he finished the milking, he went into the house, and, as he has many times said since, in about five minutes they were engaged and a date set for their marriage. The parents were consulted and consented; arrangements were made for the wedding to take place the next day. A neighbor girl lent her wedding dress and the ceremony was performed by Joseph F. Smith in the presence of the two families. The next day was spent getting the missionary fitted out for his journey. The bride, barely seventeen, with the golden hair and she "sweet sixteen," "the calico maid," with blue eyes and golden braids. Their only honeymoon journey was the ride back to the farm. The mother had not been idle while they were gone, and she had a fine wedding supper for them, but the young bride was so excited with the thrilling experience and the suddenness of it all that she could not eat any of it. The other girls of the neighborhood heard about it and came in that night to congratulate the newlyweds and have some fun over the event.
After two more days of hurry and preparation, the missionary left with a company of seventy to cross the plains on his way to England. On this trip it was not the covered wagon, but the covered pushcart. Two missionaries had one cart for both of them. William and his companion had a fine handcart with red wheels and four little bows with a piece of canvas over them. In this they had to carry everything they took with them, including the food and bedding they would need on their journey. They traveled on foot to Boston and took the ship there. The voyage over was very rough, with the usual results. One of the other elders came to William, on an especially stormy day and said: "Billy, we are going down." "I don't care," replied William, "let her go." She did not go down, though, and William landed and preached the gospel to many.
Martha lived with her mother-in-law and helped her spin and weave, milk many cows, make butter and cheese, and do all the other household duties. She also taught school for two terms, and her husband's mother, taking advantage of an opportunity which she had not had before, sat beside her in the schoolroom and learned to read and write.
Then Johnston's Army came. Martha, with the rest of the family, fled south to Pondtown between Spanish Fork and Salem, and the missionaries were called home. By the time William got back, though, the trouble was practically settled and he met his wife and mother on their way back to Salt Lake. Not long after this William was plowing, and a young man named Joseph Abbot was walking along behind him carrying a brass kettle and dropping corn in the row, when lightning struck them, melting the brass kettle and killing Abbot instantly. William was knocked unconscious, badly burned and dragged for some distance by the frightened team. The Patriarch John Smith, happened to pass that way for the first time in three years, found him, got him to breathing again, and got help to take him home. Through faith and careful nursing William's life was saved, but he never fully recovered, and his wife and family had to suffer many hardships and privations that would have been avoided if he had been in good physical condition and able to work hard.
Four months after the accident their first son, William J. Jr., was born. Four other children were born in Salt Lake, where, for eight years, William served as a policeman. In 1866, during the Blackhawk War, William was called to go to fight the Indians, as second lieutenant in Heber C. Kimball's company. He furnished his own horse, saddle, bridle, and bedding, and was gone for three months, fighting the Indians in Sanpete county, leaving his wife to see that the family was provided for. The next year he was called to go to Provo as one of the minute men who formed President Brigham Young's body guard and one may still see the little adobe house where he and his family lived for years and where the six other children were born.
Martha always worked hard to help support the family. While they lived in Salt Lake she paid thirty dollars and gave six weeks work to learn the glove-making trade. For twenty years she made gloves, making forty to fifty pairs of gloves every fall and selling them for prices ranging up to seven dollars a pair. She would buy buckskin and beaver furs from the Indians as they passed through on the way to their winter camp.
Her children remember at different times seeing from six to twelve big buck Indians lined up along the fence to sell her their furs and buckskins. Some of the hides she would smoke and cure herself, but for the finer gloves she got Brother H. B. Smart, of the Provo Woolen Mills, to dress the skins for her. She made short work-gloves, fine ladies-gauntlets, decorated with silk embroidery, and stage-drivers' gloves with fur backs and huge cuffs decorated with heavy beadwork, and all of perfect fit and of the finest material and workmanship. When her children induced her to stop making gloves, because the work was too hard for her, she took up the business of making temple clothes, at which she worked until her death; even when she lay in the bed for nine months with a broken leg she would be propped up with pillows and work on temple clothes.
She has spent a large part of her life helping care for the sick and dressing and laying away the dead, very seldom receiving any material compensation for her labor and often giving of her own scanty clothing and food to poor homes where most of her work was done. It was truly said by her and her daughters that most of her work is under the ground; the finest of needle work and skillful embroidery, laid away to come forth in the glory of the morning of the first resurrection.
All of her eleven children grew up and were married in the temple, although only eight are still living. The death of one of her daughters left two little babies, a boy and a girl, whom she took and raised as her own until they were married.
standardized public opinion. The course culminated in interest in social legislation. As a member of the House of Representatives, of the legislature of the State of Utah, I found it apparent in all communities that the women in all rural districts had created public opinion which assisted materially in the passage of the following laws: voluntary commitment law for the mental hospital, law to regulate child placing, establishment of state welfare commission, provision for community recreation, Sheppard-Towner Bill. I had the great honor of introducing the provision for the acceptance of the national Sheppard-Towner act, which passed both houses without a dissenting vote. I think Utah is the only state in the Union with such a record."
In Mrs. Lyman's address a very exceptional opportunity was afforded the women of the West to be known through their works. In this matter the Relief Society was twice fortunate: First, in furnishing such thoroughly rich and up-to-date material for its representative; second, in having a representative who could present the matter in such a pleasing and thoroughly able way as Mrs. Lyman did present it. The address was not written, but delivered from notes. Mrs. Jennie B. Knight and Mrs. Ruth May Fox have assured us of the high favor in which the address was received, and of the very appreciative comment of, Mrs. Philipp North Moore, president. Since the return of the delegates, a letter has been received from Mrs. Moore, expressing her high appreciation of the address.
A report of the Relief Society work was given by Mrs. Jennie B. Knight, and the work of the Young Ladies' Mutual Improvement Association by Mrs. Ruth May Fox. All of the delegates seemed to appreciate especially the quality of women they met. Mrs. Moore, whose executive work has attracted unusual attention in national organizations since 1904 came in for a large amount of felicitation, particularly as this was the 50th anniversary of her graduation from Vassar. Dr. Kate Waller Barrett, Mrs. Maud Wood Park, Mrs. Lucia Ames Mead and Dr. Valeria H. Parker stood out prominently in all the work of the convention. The local committee came in for its meed of praise, both in Decatur and Springfield for arranging for a most interesting visit to President Lincoln's tomb. The greatest possible satisfaction is expressed at the retention of Mrs. Ruth May Fox as auditor. It will be especially distinctive for our organizations to have a representative on the board of directors at the time of the meeting of the Quinquennial in 1925.
Miss Zalia By Elsie C. Carroll
"If there ain't Zalia Banks comin' up the hill." Ellen Perkins turned from the windows and addressed her daughter who still sat at the breakfast table. "Millie, bring that low rocker from the bedroom and put it right here by the fire. Sam, set the coffee-pot on the front of the stove. She'll be half froze. I'll go down and cut another slice of ham. I wonder whatever's the matter—her out so early!"
"Why, Ma," drawled Sam, "you ought to know Miss Zalia well enough to know that nothing needs to be the matter to bring her out even in the middle of the night, if she happens to think that Teenie Franson needed a new pair of shoes, or old Bill Preston's cow-shed ought to be mended." Sam laughed as he reached an ungainly arm toward the water-pitcher.
"Now, Sammy," came his mother's protesting voice from the depths of the cellar, "You just quit makin' fun of Miss Zalia. You know if she is odd there ain't a better-hearted soul in the world, and they ain't a family in this whole neighborhood but what owes her a lot. Why, when Pa died," Mrs. Perkins continued, emerging from the cellar with a slice of ham and an egg, "and I was left alone with you and Millie—two little helpless mites to look after, I don't know what I'd done without Zalia. It seemed such a big load I was left to carry—taking care of you and tryin' to finish paying for the farm—I am sure I'd a give up and gone back to Grandpa Milbourne if it hadn't been for her. But she just wouldn't let me. Said she knew I'd be sorry later, if I did. She'd not only talk to me when I'd get discouraged and blue, in that quaint cheery way of hers, but she'd come right over an' stay with us and pitch right into the work herself when there was need of it—cooking for threshers, or nursing you children when you was both down with the measles, or if a sudden rain storm threatened, helping to hustle the hay into the barns. And then when I'd think how she's raised four children and not one of 'em her own, that would give me courage, too. I tell you she's done more good in Blue Ridge than anyone else in its hull history and I don't want to ever hear either of you children makin' fun of her."
"Aw Ma, you know I wasn't makin' fun, but she is queer," Sam insisted.
"Well they's worse things in this world than bein' queer; but they ain't no better soul ever lived than Zalia Banks. Here, Millie, come and tend this skillet." Mrs. Perkins handed the fork to her daughter and hurried to the door as the sound of stamping feet was heard on the board walk outside.
"Why, Zalia Banks, what in the world's brought you out so early? You must be half froze. Here, give me your shawl. Sit in the rocker by the fire and I'll fix you a bite in half a jiffy."
"Now Ellen, stop your fussin'," remonstrated the caller in an easy drawl, "I ain't cold, and I ain't hungry, but I jest had to come and tell you the news." She had permitted the brown plaid shawl to be drawn from her grey head and stooped shoulders, and sank, a bit out of breath, into the rocker Millie shoved toward her. "You'd never guess," she went on, the excited fire in the black eyes overhung by heavy brows lighting up the thin brown features. "Edna May's wrote for me to come and live with them in the city." She held out a small pink envelope as if to verify her astonishing statement.
"Zalia!" gasped Mrs. Perkins, "You don't mean it! Edna May! And we all thought that of all them friendless children you've took in and give a home and a chance in the world, she was the ungratefulest."
"Yes, I know folks thought that, generally." Miss Zalia conceded, as she rocked back and forth, her gray linsey dress and blue gingham apron falling in voluminous folds about the tops of her broad coarse shoes. "But I reckon it was because Edna May was so pretty and full of life and hated ugliness and drudgery. Of course, she caused me more worry than all the rest of them together—because she would have a good time, and they was always a lot of good-for-nothing fellers hanging around her. Then when she went to the city in spite of all I could say or do—I felt bad, of course, but I never believed all the evil predictions folks made about her. Of course, I realized the dangers, but I might a knowed Edna May would only pick out the best in life. It's a gift she has. She was the most discernin' child I ever knew. She knows more about me than John and Lindy and Benny all ever found out together. I guess I never told you that the summer before she left she saved money pickin' berries—and you know how she hated it—and bought me a pink silk parasol for my birthday because she found out some way that when I was young I'd always wanted one. Course, I'd be sent to the 'sylum if I'd be seen takin' it to church like I used to dream about doin', but I guess she knowed I'd like to get it out sometime o' nights and feel its soft ruffles and dream about the time when I was young and could have used it. Yes, John and Benny hev both got good farms of their own now, and families; and Lindy's married and fixed comfortable. They all write once in awhile and send me a book or something nice at Christmas, but I guess they look on me as more of a duty than Edna May does. She writes lots of nice little notes—not long letters like they do, but little messages that are full of sunshine. And once in a while she sends me something that made her think of me—a pretty handkerchief or some cologne. I've decided to go. I won't sell out just at present, but I'll be glad to know something besides Blue Ridge."
"I don't blame you, Zalia, and much as we'll miss you, you'll go with the best wishes of everybody in Blue Ridge."
Although Blue Ridge was a scattered farming community, the news of Miss Zalia's good fortune soon spread. True to country hospitality, the people were eager to do something to show their regard for a life-long friend who was going to leave them. Consequently, under the leadership of Ellen Perkins and Susan White, a public picnic was hastily arranged and the evening before her departure, Miss Zalia had an opportunity of bidding Blue Ridge good-bye en masse at the schoolhouse, where they all gathered in a somewhat sad festivity. More than once during the evening Miss Zalia's quick, black eye blurred, and she felt herself wavering. Wasn't it a foolish thing to leave these old friends, tried and true, for a new life of which she knew nothing—which was only a promise? But Zalia Banks was not accustomed to changing plans once made, without some very good reason; so, even under the stress of emotion, she looked at things sensibly.
"Lands, I hate like everything to go, too," she repeated over and over during the evening to the genuine regrets expressed by first one and then another. "It wouldn't take much to change my mind right now. I never will forget you and you must all write to me and come and see me."
The shaking of hands at the end of the evening was the hardest.
"Now, Mamie," she said in an undertone to good-hearted, homely, Mamie Johnson, who had been in service for many long hard years to exacting Mrs. Conover, but who had been receiving attention for the last three months from Joe Bronson, a late widower, "Now, Mamie, don't put it off too long. You don't want to be an old maid all your life like me. Why don't you surprise us all and begin the New Year by getting married?"
"I would, Miss Zalia, honestly that's what Joe wants to do," whispered Mamie, blushing happily, "but I ain't got no dress fit to wear. You see, I been sending all I could spare to Timmie and his folks since they was burned out last fall. You don't feel like getting married without a weddin' dress and I couldn't let Joe get that."
Miss Zalia felt that here was a problem for her—a little problem like hundreds she had settled during her years in Blue Ridge. But there was no time to attend to it now. She would leave at five the next morning.
"Well, don't put it off any longer than is necessary," she urged as she pressed Mamie's bony hands "And when you're married don't let Joe's children run over you. I know you'll make a good stepmother, and God bless you."
When Granny Joyce hobbled up to say good-bye, Miss Zalia had another qualm. For years she had invited Granny and old Mrs. Walker and Uncle Patrick Davis to Christmas dinner. She knew it was an event in the year for them all. And there were the Thorne children, a little family of five orphans being kept together by the wonderful management of fourteen-year-old Margaret Ann. It was one of Miss Zalia's delights to play Santa Claus for them. And so the evening was filled with remorseful reminders that her going away would mean less Christmas joy to many of her old friends.
She was silent on her way home in the old dog-cart with Jerry and Maria, an indigent old couple who had started West two years before to join their son on a Wyoming ranch, and who had learned, when they were near Blue Ridge, that he had been killed by a broncho. Miss Zalia had taken them in and since then they had helped her on the farm and about the house and shared her home. As they clattered over the frozen road she mentally defended her decision. She had surely given enough of herself to others that she need not feel guilty for taking the good fortune beckoning her now. She had always given to others. There were the long, hard years of nursing her invalid father before he died—when she might have been chosen. Yes, there had been young men who had looked upon her with more than friendly eyes, even if she had never possessed the prettiness and winsomeness of Edna May. John Sanders and Ned Palmer she remembered had been more persistent than the others but in her decisive way, she made it plain that marriage was not for her while her father needed her. And after he was gone, her only cousin, Mary, had died when Lindy was born and Zalia had taken the baby. Lindy married when she was only sixteen and moved away. Miss Zalia had found herself so lonely at that time that she had willingly taken Benny and John, for whom the county officers were seeking a home. And a few years later, when Edna May's young artist mother had died while she was trying to regain her health in the country, every one had regarded it as the natural thing for her to go to Miss Zalia's when no trace of relatives could be found. Yes, she had given her life's best efforts to others. Surely she had a right to what happiness she could find in the years that remained for her. And so she finished her packing after the farewell party in the schoolhouse, and the next morning was driven by Jerry
[Front Elevation with doors removed]
[THIS IS DIAGRAM: A technical drawing showing the layout and dimensions of a loan closet for health centers, featuring multiple compartments and drawers for medical supplies, linens, and maternity bundles. The diagram includes labels for various items like irrigating cans, medicine chest, glasses, cups, clothing, bed pans, etc.]
LOAN CLOSET For use in Health Centers for Maternity + Infant Welfare. Design recommended by Bureau of CHILD HYGIENE UTAH STATE BOARD of HEALTH Salt Lake City August 1923.
RECOMMENDATIONS OF GENERAL BOARD
III. That previous to the establishment of a maternity chest or maternity bundles, the needs of the community in this respect be carefully studied;
IV. That where chests and bundles are provided, arrangements be such that articles may be sold, rented where people are able to pay rent, loaned when necessary, or given to the needy;
V. That wherever possible, a nurse be asked to assist the presidency, or the committee, in the care and supervision of the maternity chests and bundles, Care of Chests and Bundles: It will readily be understood that all articles must have proper care and be kept absolutely clean and sanitary. In one locality where there is a maternity chest established, the local hospital makes room for the chest and sterilizes materials used in connection therewith. Where sanitary pads for immediate use after the birth cannot be purchased, cloths, etc., which may be used, should be sterilized by baking thoroughly for at least one hour, or if used the same day, by ironing with hot iron. It is suggested that those in charge of this work consult 'local doctors and nurses or hospitals with regard to the sterilizing and preparing of various articles, and their proper care when not in use. SUGGESTIONS 1. Maternity Chest containing all sorts of articles for the mother and new baby; also accessories such as syringes, bed-pan, hot water bags, etc. (From such a chest articles might be selected for various needs.) 2. Ready-to-use Maternity Bundles. 3. First-baby necessities (shirt, band, gown, diaper, blanket.) 4. Layette, ready to use. Note: Asa beginning, a ward or community might start on a small scale and gradually add those things most needed. Some might prefer to have ready-made maternity bundles, first-baby necessities, and layettes prepared, wrapped and ready for use. SUGGESTIONS Note:—A large number of articles are listed below from which may be selected those most needed in each locality. Maternity Chest 1 bed pan, 1 catheter—rubber and glass 1 hot water bag 1 'rectal tube 1 ice bag. I pitcher —1-quart size 1 enema can all attachments, 1 slop bucket nose, rectal douche points, 1 electric pad 30 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Surgical supplies Absorbent cotton Umbilical cord Bandages and gauze Medicine droppers—l4 dozen Boracic Acid Measuring glasses—14 dozen Lysol Soap—toilet and laundry Argyrol tablets, 1-grain Witch hazel Glycerine Applicators Olive oil Vaseline tubes Iodine Umbilical cord Medicine droppers-1/2 dozen Measuring glasses-1/2 dozen Soap-toilet and landry Witch hazel Applicators (tooth picks wrapped with cotton)  Thermometers  Emergency Supplies All types of infants' appearel~used, repaired and new. Mothers' apparel—underwear and gowns. Bedding Pillow cases Towels, wash cloths Sheets Tray covers Quilts, blankets, etc Maternity Bundles I 1 gown 1 yard white oilcloth 2 large perineal pads 3 sanitary packs safety pins (to be used 12 large sponges after birth) 1 binder for breast (with safety 1 binder for abdomen pins) olive oil 1 pair long hip stockings, made talcum powder of outing flannel, supplied Boracic Acid prepared solution safety pins 6 towels. Lysol 1 pair rubber gloves Medicated cotton 1 receiving blanket 1 bar soap - ' 1 cord tie and cord dressing II 1 baby band 1 yard white oilcloth 4 sponges 1 white sheet 1 diaper 1 pad, l-yard square piece of absorbent cotton FIRST BABY NECESSITIES: Shirt, band, gown, diaper, blanket. LAYETTE: 6 dresses, 4 skirts, 3 shirts, 3 strips flannel, 3 dozen diapers, 4 night gowns, 1 blanket. Note: Baby clothes should be simple and comfortable and not longer than 24 inches, Spreads Quilts, blankets, etc. Contagious and Infectious Diseases and Quarantine Regulations Dr. Jane W. Skolfield I am delighted to meet with this congregation because I feel that in this great organization perhaps we can reach a large number of people, especially in our own state and the adjoining states where the Saints reside. As a physician and as a mother, I am able to see many things both from the physician's standpoint and from the mother's standpoint, and consequently I hope to give you something of practical value on these subjects. Our states and cities spend thousands of dollars each year in trying to protect you and your families from the ravages of disease. The health officers, which are in every county, are the agents of society, and sometimes they have a very grievous time in trying to enforce the quarantine regulations. Many people do not cooperate with the health officials, and many people feel that the quarantine laws are too strict. People should not have this attitude, because the health agents do not come to your homes for the purpose of interfering in any way. They come there to protect you and your families and the community. Every school district should have, in addition to health officers, a trained nurse to inspect the schools and the children. In some districts the school nurses are not receiving the cooperation of the parents. The people in the communities should realize the importance of the health officers and school nurses, and should cooperate with them in every possible way. Perhaps many of you feel that the quarantine is imposed for too long a period, or that it is imposed unnecessarily when there is but a light case of some disease, but it is not the disease in itself that you need to fear, so much as it is the results which follow, and sometimes a person with a light form of disease may give the contagion to a friend and cause a death. Many people fear the yellow quarantine flag, because of the type of disease it represents, such as smallpox, typhoid and scarlet fever. But the minor diseases, such as whooping cough and measles, which are not considered seriously by many people, are also very dangerous because of the serious after-effects, and the fatalities resulting. Due to the carelessness of people in not observing the quarantine regulations, these minor diseases are very hard to control. In the past, very little precaution was taken to avoid these diseases, as people thought they must have them some time during their lives, and that they might as well have them and get them over with, thinking that thereafter they would be immune. It has been proved beyond the shadow of a doubt that even in adult life, people can have these ailments as many as three or four times. Measles are very contagious during the incubation period. Therefore quarantine regulation should be strictly enforced. They are also very dangerous. According to United States statistics for 1920, from 5% to 35% of all measles cases died, and during that year alone there were 20,000 deaths from measles recorded. That makes a total of approximately a half million cases of measles in the United States in one year, after all our enlightenment. These statistics do not show the number who have defective hearing and eyesight, and all the other ills which follow in the wake of measles and are often not discovered until they are fastened on the child. Some children never recover from the effects of the disease, but die later on from the after results. In July of this year there was a great health conference in San Francisco, in connection with the American Medical Association. About twenty-two countries were represented, and thousands of people came to the great conference, where the slogan was, "Health in Education." And yet many of our people here at home do not realize that they owe it to society to help protect others from the diseases from which they may be suffering. The following communicable diseases should be reported to the board of health (or to the health officer if you have not an organized board in your town): Diphtheria, scarlet fever, smallpox, whooping cough, chicken pox, measles, mumps, membranous croup, typhoid fever, tuberculosis, cerebro-spinal meningitis, infantile paralysis, pneumonia, influenza, leprosy and cholera. It is recommended that each mother obtain from the board of health one of the pamphlets which is issued, giving the quarantine regulations, the diseases subject to quarantine, and duration of quarantine. Diphtheria usually begins with an ordinary sore throat, and unfortunately mothers sometimes permit children to go to school with sore throats. Perhaps they are in school two or three hours before the nurse discovers the condition, and by that time, several other children may have been infected. The mother should at once isolate the child afflicted with the sore throat, and if it becomes worse, a physician should be called. With proper care at the beginning, only a light case of diphtheria may result. Perhaps a child who is coming down with scarlet fever may have only a scarlet rash, and is permitted to go to school in this condition. Scarlatina and scarlet rash are identical with scarlet fever. The child who is allowed to go to school with this scarlet rash, and who may later have but a light case of scarlet fever, can give the fever to a child who may finally succumb from it. All these communicable diseases have a special selection for the vital organs. Scarlet fever often results in the running ear and mastoid infection. There has been much said about smallpox quarantine and vaccination. In foreign countries children are vaccinated from the time they are six months old, but here, where we have free thought and free speech and can determine what we want, we sometimes have a hard time to control the disease. We have had only very light forms of smallpox until last year, when we had a violent form, and in some cases, people who had had smallpox or had been vaccinated a number of years before, were not immune. Sometimes, it is advisable to be re-vaccinated. Many of the cases which died from the disease had been vaccinated. Sometimes it takes the deaths of a number of prominent people in the community to save others. Thousands of people were vaccinated last year. In times past when the vaccination serum was not as pure as it is now, a number of people had very severe experiences, and the news of one or two cases of this kind made people opposed to vaccination. Many people have lost their lives from smallpox, and others have been terribly maimed. Isn't it better to be vaccinated and have but one spot on the arm, than to die from a desperate case of smallpox, or to have the whole face disfigured? Whooping cough is one of the most serious things we have to contend with, because of the negligence in caring for this illness. I have been in many localities of this city where I have seen whooping cough signs here and there, but due to the disregard of the quarantine, people who have been free from the disease, have had to keep their children in, because the children with whooping cough were allowed to go out. Of course, the fresh air is a fine thing for the children who are recovering from whooping cough, but certainly they might keep to their own yards, and not mingle with other children, who are likely to become infected while playing with children, who are coughing, sneezing, and vomiting. The germs are on clothing, books, side-walks, grass, lawns, where children may pick them up. In some cases the quarantine is broken too soon, and children are allowed to return to school, when the parents know that they are a menace to the whole school. Sometimes mothers whose children have whooping cough hanging on, take them along when they go visiting, perhaps to see a new baby, which often results in tiny babies taking the disease. It is almost certain that whooping cough will be fatal to very tiny babies, but people have such a pronounced habit of going to see new babies, regardless of whether they have colds or other communicable diseases which may infect the mother and baby both. People could just as well wait until they are entirely free from colds and coughs before visiting the new babies, and thus give the mothers and babies a little while longer to live. Everyone knows that chicken pox is not serious, if it is treated right, and yet our statistics show that we have had some serious results following chicken pox. Some people think they can discriminate between chicken pox and smallpox, while it sometimes baffles the most skillful physician to determine whether the infection is a severe case of chicken pox or smallpox. No matter what disease threatens, the patient should be isolated until the quarantine physician has seen the case. The quarantine regulations are observed much better among the poorer classes of people. In the richer classes, where people are able to call their own physicians, and are not dependent on the county physicians, they are sometimes able to prevail upon the doctor to permit them to isolate a patient, while the remainder of the family come and go at will, without any regard for the quarantine laws. I heard of an instance in southern Utah where a case of smallpox broke out, and within a week there were sixty cases in the community, with no doctor within a radius of forty or sixty miles. Many of you have to contend with just such untoward conditions in your communities. The women in the communities should see that they have one of two things, either an active welfare committee, or a trained nurse in the schools. The cost of maintaining a nurse in the schools is only the price of one good teacher, and you have a perfect right to ask for it. A nurse can be supplied with a cost of only 25c per capita, usually. Suppose your taxes are 25c more; isn't it worth it to know that the health of your children is being safeguarded? I know that the Latter-day Saint people have been taught to obey the law, and I know that there is not so far reaching an organization anywhere as the Relief Society, therefore, I hope that you will have some system of taking up these subjects in your communities. If your county boards of health and your schools neglect to enforce the regulations, and fail to provide adequate inspection for your school children, remember that you are tax payers, and strive to create a sentiment in favor of proper regard for quarantine laws, and make an effort to have a nurse in your school district.
The Companionship of Parents and Children Julia A. F. Lund, Member of General Board
My dear Sisters and Friends:—I know you will believe me when I tell you that there is a mighty conflict of feelings within me at this moment; a feeling of exalted pride and of reverent humility: pride in the membership and service of this glorious organization, humility in the sense of my own limitations and the magnitude of the subject upon which I am to address you for a short time. I am reminded here of an experience I had some years ago when I was working in the cause of Prohibition. I went to a certain city to deliver an address. Before the meeting began, the chairman of the ladies' committee said to me, "Now Mrs. Lund, we, here, are all thoroughly converted to Prohibition, what we want of you is to tell us how to get it and how to use it when we get it." That is exactly the nature of my duty to-day, as I see it. I do not believe there is a person within the sound of my voice who is not converted to my theme; who does not firmly believe that the companionship of parents and children is one of the most absorbing and most vital issues of the hour. How to get it, how to use it, how to keep it—those are the questions. Oh, could I but answer them satisfactorily to every mother!
There are certain old truths which will be truths as long as the world endures and which no amount of progress can change. One of these is that the family (that organization consisting of father, mother, and children) is the foundation of all things in the State or Church; another, that sins against pure and healthy family life are those which of all others are sure in the end to be visited most heavily upon the nations in which they take place. So, in this social order of ours, we must work for all around us, but especially for those closest and nearest, as the best possible preparation for doing our duty to the State and to the Church. The keenest of mortal eyes see but dimly at times, but each of us as mothers can strive—at least as light and strength are given us—toward the ideal home where there must exist a perfect companionship between parents and children, built upon a feeling of mutual interest, knowledge, taste and sympathy. In this great modern industrial civilization which we today enjoy, with opportunities and advantages such as the world has never known before, there are many and grave dangers to counter balance our achievements and our triumphs. Far more important than the question of occupation or wealth of our people is the question of how their family life is conducted. All other things are of minor consequence, so long as there are real homes and so long as those who make up these homes do their duty to one another. One great thinker has said, "No piled-up wealth, no splendor of material growth, no brilliance of artistic development, will permanently avail any people unless its home life is healthy."
I am sure, dear sisters, there is no disagreement among us as to the importance of the home. Roosevelt has compared a home without children to a land without trees—barren and unfruitful. While some children will go wrong in spite of the best training, and some will go right even where their surroundings are most unfortunate, nevertheless an immense amount depends upon the family training, and just through this family training comes the companionship of which we are speaking. It is the animating spirit—the factor that either makes or mars the home. If I were to put the question here to-day, there is not a shadow of doubt what the answer would be—"What do our children mean to us?" OUR CHILDREN—"The loveliest flowers from God's own garden," as one old writer expressed it. The attitude of our heavenly Father toward this great privilege of parenthood is shown in the story of Abraham, upon whose head was pronounced the blessing of all worldly wealth and honor, but the triumph of triumphs, the crowning blessing, was the promise of a posterity numerous as the sands of the sea. From the inspiration of the gospel we draw the impelling motives for our aims in life, and we get a proper sense of values if we live up to its teachings. This has taught us the real significance of the question put by Him who "spake as never man spake," "For what shall it profit a man, if he shall gain the whole world, and lose his own soul?" And we mothers may all ask ourselves, "What doth it profit us, though we gain the whole world, and lose the souls of our children?" So this privilege of parenthood, this blessing of children, carries with it the gravest responsibility of life. Our duty is hard, our tasks great, but greatest of all is our reward. Into the woman's keeping is committed the destiny of the generations to come after us. It is not a part of my subject, as I understand it, to tell what a mother should teach her sons and daughters, except in the words of a great American, "To teach boys and girls alike that they should have the privilege of making their own place in the world, and that they are not to look forward to lives spent in avoiding difficulties, but to lives spent in overcoming difficulties; teach them that work for themselves and also for others is not a curse, but a blessing; seek to make them happy, to make them enjoy life, but also seek to make them face life with the steadfast resolution to wrest success from labor and adversity, and to do their whole duty before God and to man." Surely she who can thus train her sons and daughters is thrice fortunate among women, and if she has succeeded so far, she has accomplished it through the establishment of a companionship with her children. It can never be done through any other medium.
Since the world began there have only been two classes of people, one which declares that our times are the worst the world has seen, and another one which claims our times as best. I believe we as a people belong to the latter class, with some reservations. Surely we appreciate our blessings, but we are not blind enough not to see that there are many great and real dangers to be reckoned with, and those which concern us more than all others combined have to do with our children. I make the statement without qualifying it—The only real protection or adequate defense against them can be afforded by the home and its influences. I could not—even if I wished—go into analysis of the social unrest and crime of today; those are problems of civics and economics entirely outside of my theme, but there is no denying the fact that some of our young people, especially girls, have gone in for crime professionally, on a scale extensive enough to be alarming. This subject is ably discussed by Mary E. Hamilton of the New York Police force. Her experience as a police officer in the largest city in the United States has placed her in a position to speak with authority. When asked if there was any remedy for the feminine criminal epidemic, she responded quite cheerfully, "There is at least one sure cure. Training the girl in the home. Girls are not trained in the home nowadays as they used to be. A girl should be taught some useful household tasks, or, at the very least, given by teaching and good example a good standard of morals. Many girls of today have no moral sense whatever. All crime is a form of sickness. It is not normal for the normal being, and when any child shows a tendency toward moral crookedness that child should be taken to a physician or a psychologist or both. If a girl cuts her finger the mother rushes her to the doctor. If she develops a queer disposition, the mother says she is like her paternal grandmother. Most crime could be wiped out if parents were intelligent enough to have queer acts or queer traits of character examined by some authority on the subject. We could almost abolish penal institutions if children had proper care while they were still in the grammar school. Every trait that appears later is said to develop between the ages of seven and fourteen. I can go into any advanced grammar class now and pick out the future women of the street."
Judge Ben Lindsay is not at all despondent over the girl of today. He says she is not a bad type, the real trouble is that there is no companionship between some parents and their children. It is an age of conservatism vs. Jazz, and there is no understanding nor sympathy between them. Mothers give too little—girls take too much. They begin picking at each other instead of quietly and thoroughly threshing it out and coming to an understanding. If parents have not that patience, forbearance, and determination to understand these "jazz-age children" they will cut loose and go where they are understood, and therein lies the tragedy of the situation. It is only when parents and children come to a fellowship, built upon understanding, that they can be one in feeling and in heart. One great American orator, in a plea for harmony between the states, summed up the whole subject it seemed to me, in the words, "My countrymen, know one another and you will love one another." I am one of those who believe that, except in the realm of material invention, there is nothing new under the sun. We have heard much of late of the glory of the Pilgrim Fathers. Puritanism is held up to us as the foundation of all that is best in this glorious American commonwealth of ours, and yet the very same problem of youth was a matter of concern in Plymouth. If we scan the serious pages of Cotton Mather and Jonathan Edwards we shall find that some of the young men of their day gave occasion for serious reproof because they would smile and speak lightly upon the Sabbath day; and the demure little Puritan maid would let a stray curl escape or put a dash of bright color on her somber gown if she could by chance find one. Oh, youth is youth and will be to the end of time, and its extremes are the necessary reaction from a too conservative age, that might, unchecked, run to bigotry and intolerance. The faults of young people are often the distortion and exaggeration of a really good trait which has not been properly developed along the lines of good traits when it was in the formative stage. This is particularly true in the matter of dress. We applaud the girl's desire to dress becomingly, we should not denounce too strongly her poor taste. She needs education and proper direction, and most girls will take it too, if it is presented in the right way, by someone whom she feels understands her. The fact that young people are ungrateful is a common complaint among us today. Well, they are—it is true. But that, as other faults, is not exactly modern. Turn to the pages of the world's greatest dramatist who died about 1616 and read the mighty passion play and let your hearts go out in sympathy to tragic old Lear in his heart-broken lament, "Oh, ingratitude, thou marble-hearted fiend, more hideous when thou showest thee in a child than in a sea monster." Some children are just naturally grateful and appreciative, others just aren't. But this development of the trait of ingratitude indicates a woeful lack of education along the lines of appreciation, either of material gifts, services rendered, or of the things worthwhile in the world. Certainly this fault, if any in all the category, can be charged to parental neglect.
Perhaps the fault in our children most painful to serious thinking people today is the lack of reverence. The disregard for any authority, temporal or spiritual. There is grave cause for concern on this point, but is the sin confined to the young alone? Is it not an irreverent age? Can we blame our children too much for reflecting the spirit of the time? Here again must we resort to the home as the one sure cure, and see to it that it is a sanctuary where the laws of God and our country are respected and observed. So we might go on with all the problems and trials of life and refer them back to the home. You are quite right in saying to yourselves, "This is a talk on the power of the home or home influence, rather than a talk on the companionship of parents." I plead guilty to taking a long and circuitous route to reach my destination. I have deliberately stressed the home as the greatest, most unfailing source of all good things in the world, but it is the workshop where human characters are built and the manner in which they are formed depends upon the relationship existing between parents and children. The home can not be what I have in my weak way suggested it should be unless these relations are of the proper character. Whether they are so or not depends, it is true, upon both parents and children, but much more upon parents. They must do their best, most effective training before the child is old enough to appreciate what is being done. Many a child has formed the habit of incorrect speech and has felt that handicap all his life. Teach the little ones to speak correctly and to do the right thing. The wherefore will come in due time. I have said much, and yet have not even attempted to say how the home may be made to measure up to the high standards set. Here a very real difficulty presents itself, for each home has its own problems and its own standards, but there are a few great underlying principles which must be observed if any degree of success is attained. First, the co-operative attitude must exist between the founders of the home, this to be strengthened by every new member added. It must stand upon the rock foundation of truth and moral purity. The material conditions must be such that the inmates may at least live a normal life. The great Master teacher said, "Man cannot live by bread alone," neither can children live by merely having their material wants cared for. This is very necessary, it is true, but it is only a part, and so far as the mother is concerned, much the easiest part of her work. First of all parents must be trying to be, or at least putting forth their best effort in, what they wish their children to be. It is impossible for you to be an example of what you are not. The only way to teach children the beauty and use in service is to teach them how, and permit them to render it. "Oh, go away and leave me alone, I haven't time to be bothered," said a hurried, impatient mother to her little three-year-old daughter who was trying to help perform a certain household task. Turning to me that mother remarked, "Isn't it a fact that children always want to help when they can't, and when they really can, they won't?" And I could but acknowledge the truth of the assertion, but the mental question presented itself, "With whom rests the fault?" The desire to help is born with every normal child and parents have no right to complain if, through their own neglect and rebuffing, the impulse is not encouraged and developed. There can be no such thing as household drudgery when all assist with the tasks, and through the association in the discharge of these duties comes the sweetest companionship that can be experienced. Two fathers were discussing their boys of the same age one day. One remarked, "My boy is the bane of my life, he can't do anything well, whatever he attempts he spoils." "That's strange," said the other, "I would rather have my boy help me than any other man I can hire. He knows better than I do myself at times what I want done, and he is always willing to do it." A neighbor to the two said to me, "That is a true statement of conditions as they now exist, but I think I know the cause. The one father has been almost a stranger to his son, he has never tried to teach him anything and he has no patience with the lad now because he does not know how to do things. The other father has trained the boy since infancy, they have always been pals. Before the little fellow could drive he was allowed to hold the ends of the lines, and as he grew older he was trained in the things he should know. You have seen the results. Our daily life is full of just such object lessons as these." If I had to suggest one thing in which I think we as parents are most lacking it would be a sympathetic understanding of our children. I admit there are grave faults among our people, but the parents are quite as guilty as the children, and if we are going to hold our children and do our whole duty to them, we shall have to come out from our walls of conservatism and at least learn their ideals before we can hope to raise their standards to ours. If you want your boys to read the sermon, you will have to read the sport page. Even in this you can drive home some of the best lessons of life. Point out to the boy (and at a certain age it has more effect than a sermon) that to become the champion of the world Jack Dempsey had to just about live up to what we have always taught in the Word of Wisdom. Live with the children, follow their paths, try with them to read "sermons in stones, books in the running brooks, and good in everything." Teach them that the flower of youth never looks so lovely as when it bends to the sun of righteousness. But at the same time make them feel that though the years may bring wrinkles and gray hair, it can never take from us the spirit, the heart of youth. Know everything that claims the interest of your children, be a good sport with them, remembering always in the beautiful words of Wordsworth, "A child, more than all other gifts that earth can offer to declining man, brings hope with it and forward looking thoughts."
As I look back on the history of our people, I see a past that is full of glory; looking ahead, I see a future full of promise. We have faith that we shall not prove false to the memories of the men and women of the mighty past. They did their work and left us the splendid heritage we now enjoy. Our highest aim is through the medium of loving companionship to train our children to appreciate this inheritance. We may thus in our turn have an assured confidence that we shall be able to leave this heritage unwasted and enlarged to our children's children.
NURSE COURSE—SALT LAKE COUNTY HOSPITAL
The Salt Lake County Hospital will open a new class for nurse students in January. The course of training at this hospital occupies three years. Applicants must be between the ages of 19 and 31, and of at least average height and physique. In addition to board and lodging, pupils are given a monthly allowance of $15. Those interested in this course should write at once to the Superintendent of the County Hospital Training School, Salt Lake City, Utah.
Notes from the Field Amy Brown Lyman
Mexican Mission
Relief Society workers will be interested in the snapshot of the Atlanta Relief Society in old Mexico, which is one of the three organized branches in Ozumba conference. A letter from Elder George H. Carstensen states that the Relief Society women in old Mexico, although in very modest circumstances, are making every effort to better themselves and neighbors. There are in all ten Relief Societies in Mexico.
Eastern States Mission
In a letter from Miss Marie Danielsen, president of the Relief Societies of the Eastern States mission, we learn that Miss Danielsen has just returned from Massachusetts where very successful Relief Society conferences were held at New Bedford, Boston, and Lynn. The attendance at the meetings was good, and the programs given were instructive and interesting. The Societies in New Bedford and Lynn are rather permanent. They are strong organizations and are doing their part to help the conference president look after the needs of the people in their branches. The Boston branch is made up mostly of the wives of students with a few missionaries. The president, Mrs. Claire Noall Robison, wife of Professor Robison of the New England Conservatory of Music, has been very successful in getting Utah girls and young women into the organization. The Brooklyn Relief Society, Miss Clara Robinson, president, has been meeting regularly with good attendance. The Young Mothers' Circle of the Manhattan branch meets weekly and is doing some very fine work along social service lines. The work in the mission is growing, and the interest among the sisters is increasing.
New York Conference
The following Relief Society organizations have been recently organized: Syracuse: Eva B. Keeler, president; Emma Call and Dorcas Turley, counselors; Beatrice Allen, secretary; Persis Turley, teacher. Rochester: Emma Harris Brown, president; Julia Gossman and Margaret Smith, counselors; Harriet Fose, secretary; Theressa Taif, teacher.
HEALTH WORK
The General Board is delighted with the reports which are constantly coming in from women in various localities, telling of the health conferences and clinics which are being held throughout the state, as well as in our adjoining states. Relief Society women everywhere are interested in the programs of the various states in carrying out the provisions for the Sheppard-Towner act, and they are assisting and co-operating with the educational work which is being projected. Health conferences and clinics are revealing many defects among women and children, which were previously unknown, and it is felt that follow-up work will surely come later, through the efforts of agencies and individuals.
Utah Stake. The Utah stake Relief Society is doing some very excellent things along the line of maternity and child welfare work. Long before the wheat interest checks were received by the wards, a special meeting of stake and ward officers was held, and it was decided that the wheat money should be used as a stake fund in the interest of maternity and child welfare; and that the work be done in cooperation with agencies organized under the Sheppard-Towner Act. A committee of stake board members has this work in hand, and several enthusiastic Mothers' conferences have been held in Provo, Springville, and Mapleton. At these conferences Dr. Barber, director of the State Bureau of Child Hygiene, has examined hundreds of babies and given advice regarding their care; and consulted many expectant mothers in the interest of their own health and better babies. Local physicians assisted Dr. Barber, and are now giving their best service to the work he has barely begun. The department has a loan and emergency closet well under way. The M.I.A. Girls of one ward took great interest in making one of the layettes to demonstrate how it could be made simply and beautifully by the work of their hands. Another beautiful layette was made by a board member from articles of cast off clothing to demonstrate the made-over that meant no cash outlay whatever except a spool of crochet cotton. The object of these demonstrations is to encourage the simple and inexpensive infant wear that gives to the baby all the comfort of the most elaborate outfits. The Relief Society board of this stake are particularly appreciative of the whole-hearted support of the brethren in the stake presidency, and of the splendid co-operation of ward Relief Society officers.
HEALTH PROGRAM IN BINGHAM COUNTY, IDAHO (BLACKFOOT AND SHELLEY STAKES)
The Bingham County Nursing Service is a co-operative piece of health work which has attracted much attention and has been the subject of favorable comment wherever it is known. The Blackfoot and Shelley stake Relief Societies, joined with the county commissioners, the boards of education, in Blackfoot and Shelley, and the Red Cross, in establishing a nursing service in the schools in Bingham county. Realizing the need of a public health nurse in this county, the Blackfoot stake Relief Society, with Mrs. Signe A. Davis, president, took the initiative. In April, 1923, the board appointed a committee of three for the purpose of interesting other organizations in a movement to secure a school nurse. The committee which consisted of Mrs. E. L. Egli, Mrs. J. T. Carruth, and Miss Gladys Huish, made a survey and interviewed other agencies and organizations. The committee was very successful in interesting others in the movement and secured the following results: The Blackfoot board of education subscribed $250; the Shelley board of education $200; the Bingham county Red Cross chapter, $400; the County commissioners, $400; the Shelley stake Relief Society, $200; and the Blackfoot stake Relief Society, $400; making a total of $1,850, which it was planned would finance the nursing program at least for nine months. A board was organized to supervise the work. The board is composed of a representative from each organization pooling funds to finance the movement, and is known as the Bingham county Nursing Service Board. Miss Edith Chaffee, one of the best public health nurses on the Red Cross staff, was engaged and everything was in readiness to begin work in October. The board is as follows: Mrs. J. T. Carruth, representing the Blackfoot stake Relief Society, chairman; Mr. J. R. Wilkins, representing the Shelley Board of Education, secretary and treasurer; Mrs. Eae Freeman, representing the Shelley stake Relief Society; Mrs. E. J. Early, representing the Bingham county Red Cross; Mr. E. D. Bloom representing the Blackfoot Board of Education; Mr. John R. Williams, representing the County commissioners.
Guide Lessons for March
LESSON I Theology Lesson THE PARABLES OF THE SAVIOR (First Week in March)
A. Why Jesus Taught in Parables.
There came a time in the life of Jesus when a mixed multitude of people followed him to hear what he might say, and see what he might do. This multitude might be divided into two classes: the one, a class of truth seekers; the other, a class of unbelievers or doubters. The first class was open to conviction. It was composed of the meek, in that they were teachable. For the most part, they were disciples of Christ, that is, believers in him. To them he could talk as Jehovah talked to Moses, "face to face." Jesus said of them: "Blessed are your eyes, for they see: and your ears, for they hear." (Matt. 13:16.) The others were persons who had no desire to learn the truth and were possessed of a determination not to be converted. (Matt. 13:15.) Being acquainted with the prophets through a study of the scripture, and knowing the condition of these people through the spirit of discernment, he spoke to them in parables as a fulfiller of prophecy and as a teacher who recognized the psychological truth, "that a man convinced against his will is of the same opinion still." Through parables he secured their attention, and taught them the truth in a way that left them with less responsibility than if he had declared the kingdom unto them by direct discourse. These self-made skeptics, however, could not escape without being burdened with something to think about. Their intellects were moved to the point of wonder; but their hearts were not reached to the point of understanding. The spirit of testimony in mercy was withheld from them. Of the multitudes who listened to his parables, and of the millions who have read them, not one person, be that one ever so infidelic, can get away from the import of the lessons taught, so universal are his parables in their application to life. There are twenty-nine parables spoken by the Savior recorded in the New Testament. Of these twenty-nine, seven were delivered to the multitude who stood on the shores of the Sea of Galilee, while sitting in a boat he spoke to them. (Matt. 13:2.) On this occasion his entire discourse was parabolic. (Matt. 13:34.) In thus limiting his form of teaching on this occasion, he fulfilled the prophecy found in Psalms 78:2, "I will open my mouth in a parable; I will utter dark sayings of old." For one of the best things written on this topic see "Christ's Purposes in Using Parables," page 295 in Jesus the Christ, by James E. Talmage of the Council of the Twelve.
B. The First Parable—The Sower.
The setting. The following is from Jesus the Christ by Talmage, page 300: "Local Setting for the Parable of the Sower.”—Dr. R. C. Trench, in his excellent work Notes on the Parables of our Lord (page 57, note), quotes Dean Stanley's description of existing conditions in the place where the Parable of the Sower was given by Jesus; and as there is reason to believe that the environment has changed but little since the days of Christ, the account is here reproduced. "A slight recess in the hillside close upon the plain disclosed at once in detail, and with a conjunction which I remember nowhere else in Palestine, every feature of the great parable. There was the undulating corn-field descending to the water's edge. There was the trodden pathway running through the midst of it, with no fence or hedge to prevent the seed falling here or there on either side of it, or upon it—itself hard with the constant tramp of horse and mule and human beings. There was the 'good' rich soil, which distinguishes the whole of that plain and its neighborhood from the bare hills elsewhere, descending into the lake, and which, where there is no interruption, produces one vast mass of corn. There was the rocky ground of the hillside protruding here and there through the corn-fields, as elsewhere, through the grassy slopes. There were the large bushes of thorn, the 'nabk' *** springing up, like the fruit-trees of the more inland parts, in the very midst of the waving wheat." 2. The Parable. "Behold, a sower went forth to sow; and when he sowed, some seeds fell by the wayside, and the fowls came and devoured them up: some fell upon stony places, where they had not much earth; and forthwith they sprung up, because they had no deepness of earth: and when the sun was up, they were scorched; and because they had no root, they withered away. And some fell among thorns; and the thorns sprung up, and choked them: but other fell into good ground, and brought forth fruit, some an hundred fold, some sixty fold, some thirty fold." 3. The Interpretation. (Matt. 13:18-23). "Hear ye therefore the parable of the sower. "When anyone heareth the word of the kingdom, and understandeth it not, then cometh the wicked one, and catcheth away that which was sown in his heart. This is he which received seed by the wayside. 48. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE "But he that received the seed into stony places, the same is he that heareth the word, and anon with joy receiveth it; "Yet hath he not root in himself, but dureth for a while; for when tribulation or persecution ariseth because of the word, by and by he is offended. "He also that received seed among the thorns is he that heareth the word; and the care of this world, and the deceitfulness of riches, choke the word, and he becometh unfruitful. "But he that received seed into the good ground is he that heareth the word, and understandeth it; which also beareth fruit, and bringeth forth, some an hundredfold, some sixty, some thirty." 4. Suggestions for Thought. This parable was given to show the various states of preparation of the mind for the reception of the truth; not the soil itself, but its condition is the object of consideration. His hearers, acquainted with the soil of the country and the methods of tillage, well knew that the wayside paths that crossed the field could be made productive by plowing and harrowing. The stony land ' could be cleared of the rocks and the soil made strong by the use of fertilizers. The weedy parts of the field could be made to produce good crops by rooting up the tares and even the most productive soil might be improved. A heart, hardened by prejudice against the truth, is like a hardened highway where nothing can grow. The mind with a sincerity that fails in the presence of temptation or opposition is typified by the shallow soil. The soul whose time and attention are absorbed in material interests to the exclusion of active interest in spiritual things is represented by the soil cumbered with weeds. The character that comes from seeking first the kingdom of God and his righteousness is the soil, clear of weeds, free from stones, and hardpan, and in a high state of cultivation. For a more elaborate discussion see Jesus the Christ, page 283 to 285. QUESTIONS AND PROBLEMS 1. What two classes of people followed Jesus to hear what he might say and see what he might do? 2. To which class did he speak in parables? 3. Why did his disciples wonder at his teaching in parables?. 4. What reason did Jesus give for his teaching in parables? 5. Give the setting to the occasion when he first spoke in parables. 6. How many parables were spoken by Jesus during his first day of parabolic teaching? 7. Repeat the parable of the Sower. 8, What was the chief object of this parable? LESSON DEPARTMENT. 2 49 9. Give the Savior's interpretation of the parable of the Sower. 10. What condition of mind or spirit is represented Ey the weedy ground? 11. What two prophecies did Jesus fulfil by speaking in parables? 12. Give some additional points on the parable. 13. What does Dr. James E. Talmage say concerning the parable of the Sower suggesting the doctrine of fatalism? (page 285.) 14. Of what value is this parable in our day? LESSON II. Work and Business (Second Week in March): LESSON III Literature (Third Week in March) This lesson is in a sense a review, however, some new material is used. Whatever the Puritans believed or did not believe; whatever virtues they practiced or failed to practice, one thing is very sure, they believed in the immortality of the soul. Lord Macaulay tells us, in substance, that the Puritan was enabled to make great sacrifices and endure untold hardships because of the vision he had of the hereafter and the glory that awaited him. Benjamin Franklin intimates that the Puritans had a tendency to be impractical; that they were inclined to neglect the here and now for - the hereafter. These statements are proof of the fact that they had very unusual interest, as we see it from our present day point of view, in the life after death. We shall devote this lesson to evidences of that faith. Both Longfellow and Whittier reflect the thought of the early New England people in their attitude towards the hereafter. We have referred elsewhere to Longefellow's poem, footsteps of Angels. The reference in the fourth stanza of the poem is to the poet's friend and brother-in-law, George W. Pierce, of whom he said long after: "I have never ceased to feel that in his death, something was taken from my own life which could never be restored.'"' In the sixth stanza, he speaks of his young wife. The Village Blacksmith contains the same message, for when he hears his daughter's voice singing in the village choir "it sounds to him like her mother's voice singing in Paradise." RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE The Old Clock on the Stairs emphasizes the same idea. In thinking how all who have lived in the old home are scattered and that some are fled, that "some are married, some are dead," the old clock is interpreted as saying, that they will never meet here again; that they will never be separated in the world to come. These are the words of the poem: "Never here, forever there, Where all parting, pain, and care, And death, and time, shall disappear,— Forever there, but never here! The horologe of Eternity Sayeth this incessantly,— 'Forever—never! ~ Never—forever!' " The Psalm of Life was written at a time when Longfellow said he was unwilling to show his manuscript to anyone, it being a voice from his inmost heart at a time when he was rallying from depression. In this poem he announces in concise and very forceful words that: "Life is real! Life is earnest! And the grave is not its goal; Dust thou art, to dust returnest, Was not spoken of the soul." Whittier, in Snowbound expresses himself upon this matter in the following lines: -"Ah, brother! Only I and thou Are left of all the circle now,— The dear home faces whereupon That fitful firelight paled and shone. Henceforward, listen as we will, The voices of that hearth are still; Look where we may, the wide earth o'er Those lighted faces smile no more. We tread the paths their feet have worn, We sit beneath their orchard-trees, We hear, like them the hum of bees And rustle of the bladed corn; We turn the pages that they read, Their written words we linger o'er But in the sun they cast no shade, No voice is heard, no sign is made. No step is on the conscious floor! Yet Love will dream, and Faith will trust. 52 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE LESSON IV Social Service (Fourth Week in March) THE STANDARD OF LIVING——GENERAL TYPES OF WELFARE WORK The desire of man to help his neighbor in distress is as old as the race itself. Good Samaritans have administered to the needs and wants of those fallen by the wayside for countless generations. The spirit of brotherly love, of human interest, has found expression in many forms. The relation of doctor to patient, of teacher to pupil, of employer to employee, of neighbor to neighbor, is often of a helpful, altruistic nature. This bond which exists in natural, human situations is a strong one, and because of its naturalness and strength, can be an important one in the solution of human problems. A doctor, a teacher, a relative, or a friend may be able to render the right kind of service at a certain time to an individual in trouble. But in our present day society, which is becoming constantly more complex and less personal, these natural bonds cannot be relied on to care for all the difficult social situations that arise. In this day of specialization, in industry, in education, in medicine, etc., the employer, the teacher, or the physician does not often play the intimate role of adviser and friend. The difficulties which individuals have to meet in our day are sometimes involved and often require a special kind of skill to overcome them. The friendly employer, or neighbor, or relative is not always familiar with the medical, educational and social resources of the community and often cannot render the expert kind of service that an individual may require. But this concern that individuals have for the well-being of other individuals is still finding expression, and is the motive behind the various movements and programs that form what is known as organized welfare work. Welfare or social work is, in a general sense, any work that is undertaken deliberately for the purpose of bettering environment or of assisting man to a better adjustment and a more complete life in this environment. In carrying out this purpose, activities have been of two quite different types: first, those of a general educational or legislative nature, which attempt to accomplish general, or group, or environmental betterment; and second, the work of a personal or special nature, which aims to effect better adjustment and more complete development of individuals and families by personal advice and treatment. Some aspects of the first type of betterment work will now be mentioned and the second type will be left for more detailed discussion in subsequent lessons, LESSON DEPARTMENT ———Many of the advances made in the field of health are the result of general measures designed for group improvement. An outstanding example is the enactment of the Sheppard-Towner (Maternity) act, which provides for the appropriation of both federal and state funds for the promotion of maternity and child welfare. The public schools, too, give an example of general work for the good of the group, in their health program, which includes physical examinations, regular weighing and measuring, and the keeping of health charts of the school children. Milk stations, health centers, baby clinics, etc., give health advantages to certain groups and do much to raise the general health standard. The prohibition movement might also be cited as an educational and legislative accomplishment of a group of public spirited individuals who desire to contribute to the general health, moral and social betterment of the race. (Edward T. Devine's Normal Life: Intemperance, pages 141-145.) The tuberculosis campaign and its teachings of fundamental principles of health has been recognized as an important phase of the modern health program. (Normal Life: Disease, pages 152-157.) Various health ordinances, inspection of milk and public eating houses, quarantine regulations. Etc., are all important sanitary achievements and are designed for the protection of the public health..; In the field of industry many significant reforms have been instituted in recent years. The better working conditions, the shorter hours, the higher wages in the major industries of the present show a decided improvement over the conditions of a few years ago. The introduction of skilled personnel officers, whose function it is to endeavor to place the employees in positions to which they are best suited, is another development of modern industry. Industrial insurance, providing for compensation to those disabled in the performance of their labors, has done much to mitigate the suffering of the families where the breadwinner has been injured. Legislation controlling the hours and types of work of women employees is generally considered desirable protective work. The stress that has been placed on the elimination of child labor will be continued until children everywhere will be relieved of the burden of early economic struggle and are given the rights of education, recreation, and natural, normal development. (Normal Life: Working Children, page 65; State and Federal Laws, pages 67-69.) Changes in school standards and educational methods have been marked and many. A particularly significant one to the students of social welfare is that of compulsory school attendance until a minimum age has been reached. (Normal Life: School Attendance, page 69.) The development of a vocational curriculum, the establishment of part-time schools, and the organization of special classes for retarded children, each gives opportunities 54. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE to the groups in need of such training, for better future economic adjustment. (Normal Life: Elementary Conditions of Social Education, page 38.) In order to provide recreation of a wholesome nature and to offer an attractive substitute for the commercialized amusements, which are often of a demoralizing nature, public amusements, public parks and playgrounds have been provided by many cities. Some communities, too, have organized festivals, pageants, plays, etc., for both children and adults. (Normal Life: Play, page 42.) Behind all these movements, making their accomplishments possible, is the groping of the group concerned for the improvements and advantages they desire; but added to this group desire has been the power and strength of a large public spirited majority, who have a deep human interest in the welfare of society and the development of the race. QUESTIONS AND PROBLEMS 1. Give an example of an act of human service. Explain the motive of the act. 2. Why is organized welfare work necessary? 3. What are the two main types of welfare work? 4. Tell what you know of the development and present status of the Sheppard-Towner act. 5. Give a short. Account of the prohibition movement, pointing out the motives of the leaders. 6. What are the advantages of industrial insurance? 7. When might it be a hardship on a family to comply with the compulsory education ordinance? Should the child be given a "special permit" to discontinue school, or is there some other solution to the situation? TEACHERS' TOPIC FOR MARCH THE GOSPEL IN THE HOME—SACRAMENT The Last Supper—''And as they were eating, Jesus took bread, and blessed it, and brake it, and gave it to the disciples, and said, Take, eat; this is my body. And he took the cup and gave thanks, and gave it to them, saying, Drink ye all of it. For this is my blood of the new testament, which is shed for many for the remission of sins." Matthew 26:26, 27, 28. A. The sacredness and solemnity of partaking*of the sacrament, - B. The blessings that follow when this privilege is righteously exercised. "Partaking of the sacrament worthily may be regarded therefore as a means of renewing our covenants before the Lord and solemnly witnessing our claim of membership in the Church of Christ." Articles of Faith, page 179. Vacuum Electric WASHERS Washes by Air Pressure and Suction Washes Clothes without injury Machine Co, 72 So. Main St. Salt Lake, Utah Robertson's "EASY" Washing Choose the service which will meet your needs—Wet Wash, Wet Wash Flat Ironed, Rough Dry and All Finished. Troy LAUNDRY Distinctive Work Office 319 Main St. F Telephone Hyland 190  The management of the Relief Society Magazine requests, that whenever possible, remit by Post Office order in payment for subscriptions. Fr Salt Lake City, Dec. 26, 1923 The management of the Relief Society Magazine urges an early settlement of all outstanding accounts. PHOENIX SILK STOCKINGS "The Silk stocking that stands wear." No. 365 Ladies' Black, white, brown, grey, otter = $1.25 No. 708 Ladies' Colors as above ql 1.65 No. 368 Ladies' Full Fashioned. Colors as above ae; 2.00 POSTAGE PREPAID. SEND US YOUR MAIL ORDERS. OGDEN-UTAH KNITTING STORE 2357 Washington Ave. Ogden, Utah Mention Relief Society Magazine a — CENTURY PRINTING CO. 231-35 Edison Street, Salt Lake City, Utah. Catalogs, Color-Work, Programs, Publications, Commercial forms. Service is Our Motto. Our Phone, Was. 1801. Glazier and Taylor HOSIERY COMPANY 33 EAST BROADWAY A Store Dealing in Quality Hosiery and Underwear Exclusively Heavy Silk Full-Fashioned, all colors A wonderful hose for wear Box of Three Pairs 5.75 Silk Semi-Fashioned, all colors, beautiful and durable Per Pair $1.50 Box of Three Pair $4.25. Silk with Extra Stretch Elastic Top, the Comfort Stocking $1.65 er Pair.. Box of three pairs $4.75 Pure Silk, Semi-Fashioned, very durable  All Colors Per Pair. A $1.05 Box of Three Pairs $3.00 MAIL ORDERS PREPAID  TO WHOM IT MAY CONCERN Quite a number of our agents have deducted the ten per cent commission which was formerly allowed. We desire that only the necessary amount, for exchange on post office orders and postage, be deducted from the cost of remittance. THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE desires to obtain the following numbers of the magazine for 1923: 23 February number 7 August number 26 March 6 September 3 May is 4 October a Please notify this office how many you can furnish of each before sending them in.  To Our Magazine Subscribers We call your attention to the very high class firms who advertise in the Magazine, and ask, whenever possible, to give them your loyal support and patronage. Also kindly mention having read their advertisement in the Magazine. We hope by your assistance to prove our value as a medium through which to advertise. Magazine Management. Its always Open Season for Pumpkin Pie and its easily made with Pierces Pumpkin A Holiday Treat All cooked, ready for use in your favorite recipe—it makes the most appetizing pie imaginable. Everlastingly backed by THE UTAH CANNING CO., Ogden. Since 1888 — A healthy Family needs the best Foods —that means ~ Maid O'Clover Butter - Eggs - Cheese - MAID Q' CLOVER BUTTER is made from fresh, sweet cream— it is pure and wholesome. MAID O' CLOVER EGGS are strictly fresh and large size— each egg is tested before it comes to you. MAID O' CLOVER CHEESE is made in the tops of the mountains from the best. Milk and cream—it is health-giving and delicious. Mutual Creamery Co. BLUE PINE Strength and Purity No matter what your skill in the cooking al, things may go awry and the dainty "dish" fall flat—if the flavoring is at fault. EXTRACTS Blue Pine Extracts—Lemon and Vanilla—are strong, full of flavor and absolutely pure. Try them—you will always stay by them. ASK YOUR GROCER John Scowcroft & Sons Co. Full o’ Flavor Relief Society Women—ask your grocer for Blue Pine Products a) at RELIEF SOCIETY: MAGAZINE. VOL, XI FEBRUARY, 1924 NO. 2 CONTENTS Abraham Lincoln Ivy Houtz Woolley 55 Packing Clothes at the General Office for Central Europe Illustration The Joyful Truth....... Annie D. Palmer 57 Boxes of Clothes, Utah Stake, Ready to Ship Illustration 58 Eliza R. Snow.............. Minnie Iverson Hodapp 59 As Shadows Pass. Annie Wells Cannon 60 Lincoln's Widow Writes of Poverty Editorials—Abraham Lincoln Relief Society Clothing Drive for Central Europe 64 Bobbie Miller, Flapper.................. S. L. Cheney 66 Cleaning Household Silver.. Ethel Cutler Butt 82 Eight Women Elected to British Parliament.... 84 Items About Women 85 Notes from the Field Amy Brown Lyman 88 The Gospel to the Lamanites:. Lucy Wright Snow 96 Guide Lessons for April........ 97 Organ of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints Room 20 Bishop's Bldg. Salt Lake City, Utah $1.00 a Year—Single Copy, 10c Canada and Foreign, $1.25 a Year—15e Single Copy Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah Only a Few Days Left to get your Latest model family size wonder "junior" Simplex Electric Ironer —a new electric servant which every woman needs Special Terms $1 Down $2 a Week Sale ends February 16th Don't Delay! Utah Power & Light Co. "Efficient Public Service" Temple and ) Burial Clothes Complete Suits For Men and Women Variety of Grades and Prices Prompt and Careful Attention to Mail—Telephone—Telegraph Orders Open Daily, 9 a. M.—5 p. M. General Board Relief Society 23 Bishop's Building Salt Lake City, Utah Phone Wasatch 3286  Make A Health Garden A vegetable garden is a vitally important factor to the health of the entire family. Science has discovered those necessary vitamines are found chiefly in vegetables. Our Seed and Nursery Guide Book will help you in planning both the Vegetable and Flower Garden. Write for Free Copy Today Porter-Walton Company: SALT LAKE CITY When writing for copy mention Relief Society Magazine J YJ Quality First with W. M. McCONAHAY THE JEWELER 64 So. Main - - Phone Was. 1821 Salt Lake City, Utah © When Shopping Mention Relief Society Magazine This is Your Privilege To— Visit the Adult Work Shop for the Blind, 120 East 1st South, Old City Hall, and see the blind adults in action making carpets, rugs, couch covers, pillow tops, clothes bags, and many other useful articles. By buying their products, we are making it possible for the Blind to support themselves, thus bringing happiness and contentment into their lives. It is the duty of those who can see, to make it possible for these ambitious and industrious people to live and be happy. A visit to the shop will convince you that you can be of great assistance to them by creating a market for the things they produce. Phone Hy. 1658-R. From 8 a. M. To 12 m. IMPROVED L. D. S. GARMENTS The "Temple Brand" garments are handled only by leading dealers, if you cannot get just what you want select it from this list and send order direct to us. We prepay postage to all parts of the United States. Samples submitted on request. GARMENTS WITH STRINGS Style. Price Style Price
 No. 75 Med. Heavy Cotton. $2.50
No. 15 Extra Spe. Flat Weave 1.50 
No 3 Domestic Lisle 1.75 
No. 25 Double Back Lt. Wt. 1.85 
NEW STYLE WITH BUTTONS AND LONG OR SHORT SLEEVES
For Ladies: Style  Price:
No. 1 Flat Weave Cot..$.95. 
Super No. 2 Ribbed super cot 1.25: 
No, 815 Flat weave...................1.50 
No. 803 Ribbed Lt. Wte........... 1.65 
No. 850 Lisle Gause................ 2.50.
No. 862 Mere. Gause Lt. Wt... 2.75.
 For Men: Style: Price 
No. 903 Ribbed Lt. Wt.............$1.75 
No. 950 Lisle Lt. Wt................... 2.75 
No. 915 Flat Weave................ 1.75 
No. 925 Ribbed Med. Wt....... 2.00 
No. 975 Med. Heavy Cot......... 2.25 
No. 9175 Med. Half Wool...... 3.50 
SAME AGENTS COMMISSION-BUY DIRECT FROM FACTORY SALT LAKE KNITTING STORE 70 Main Street Salt Lake City, Utah In sending orders mention Magazine SAME AGENT'S COMMISSION—BUY DIRECT FROM FACTORY Salt Lake Knitting Store In sending orders mention Magazine Ask your dealer for Z. C. M. I. Factory Made Kiddies' Allovers DUTCH CUT They are the famous Mountaineer Brand in dark blue, light blue, striped and khaki Mothers—they are just what you need for the little tots—and the kiddies like them too Ask your dealer for Z.C.M.I. Factory Made Kiddies’ Allovers Dutch Cut They are famous Mountaineer Brand in dark blue, light blue, striped and khaki Mothers-they are just what you need for the little tots-and the kiddies like them too Abraham Lincoln By Ivy Houtz Woolley The man, as near a God, he was, As man may be by heaven's laws. He stood for what all men would be, On earth and in eternity. His smile, a slow but certain smile, Which had a drawing, mystic wile, It brought into the hearts of men A wish to see that smile again. His words were golden, every one, They cast a radiance on the sun, They stand emblazoned on the sky, And from men's lives will never die. God's man, how sweet his memory clings, How true his noble wisdom rings, He lives, and his great master mind Portrays a model for mankind. PACKING CLOTHES, AT THE GENERAL OFFICE, FOR CENTRAL EUROPE The Joyful Truth By Annie D. Palmer, First Poem to Receive Honorable Mention in the Eliza Roxey Snow Memorial Contest The flowers of the garden hang their heads, And the crickets chirp, "Tis fall;" For the Frost-King strode adown the vale, And his breath has withered all. Does any one count the flowers lost? Nay, even the children know That seed or root will defy the frost, And in Spring's warm sun will grow. My hope is crushed, for the creed I love In the heart of my. Son seems dead— A myth for women and little folks, By his learning: outgrown, he said; But a still small voice that I pause to hear, Assures me the faith I taught Will live though it be to the end of time, Till his soul to the truth is brought. My love lies cold—his heart is stilled— I faint with the load of pain, And blindly grope in fearful dark, Where dread and doubting reign; But lo! A light from deepest gloom, This truth eternal gives, Christ rose triumphant from the tomb, Through Him my loved one lives!. $o hope revives—so comfort comes— And sickening terrors flee; The star of faith illumes the world, And all who will may see. Oh, wondrous word! Oh, joyful truth! Oh, love beyond degree! God's holy Son, the blameless One,. Has conquered death for me! Boxes OF UTAH STAKE, READY FOR SHIPPING TO THE GENERAL OFFICE. VALUED AT $3,000 By Provo Business Man Eliza R. Snow By Minnie Iverson Hodapp, Second Poem to Receive Honorable Mention in the Eliza Roxey Snow Memorial Contest Cherished name, fairest fame! Chaste and guileless each aim Of thy life in its truth-radiant splendor; And I fain would attain To a pure, sky-born strain, Whilst I sing thee in melody tender, As clearer and clearer these measures of love Soar nearer and nearer to treasures above! Voice of prayer on the air; Breathing balm everywhere,— Sacred hymns of our gospel eternal! From thy hearth, sprang their birth And they utter thy worth— To Zion thy love-gift supernal! Subduing our sadness by faith in His word, Enhancing our gladness, our joy in the Lord! Faithful saint, free from taint Of dismay or doubt-plaint-— Sweet diligence, hope, and endurance; Ever-bright beacon light, Through the darkness of night, In Christ thy soul-balm and assurance!; Thy warm hand of friendship, thy ministering voice, In pure gospel-kinship, where all might rejoice! High of mien and serene, Gentle, womanly queen, Whose virtues and graces were blended In harmony sweet Forever replete With gifts of the spirit attended. Attuned heart and mind to each gospel decree, __ Thy gold all refined—one desire—"Follow Me." Cherished name, fairest fame! Chaste and guileless each aim Of thy life in its truth-radiant splendor, And I fain would attain To a pure, sky-born strain, Whilst I sing thee in melody tender. Ah, I would I might wing me to treasures above, That I clearer might sing thee in measures of love! As Shadows Pass President Emmeline B. Wells was born February 28, 1828. The 29 of February, 1924 will mark the ninety-sixth anniversary of her birth. When the 29 of February shall occur again it will mark the centenary of her birth.
When springtime comes, and in the dells The violet hides its purple face, You seem to tread among the ferns With all your wonted wondrous grace— Yes, memory will your presence trace.
When summer comes, and from the hedge The rose in fragrance scents the air, You seem to walk along the way And mingle with the perfume rare— Oh, memory, sweet beyond compare.
When autumn comes, and through the leaves The wind bemoans the songsters flown, You seem to whisper tenderly Of hope, and love, and days agone— Oh, memory, yours the dearest song.
When winter comes, and on the ground The snow lies deep and glittering bright, You seem to shine among the stars And radiate the world with light— Oh, memory, you erase the night.
Nor years, nor space, nor flight of time, Not even death, claims you from me, For memory and all things combine To weld our souls eternally.
Annie Wells Cannon.
THE Relief Society Magazine Vol. XI FEBRUARY, 1924 No. 2
Lincoln's Widow Writes of Poverty*
Two letters from Mrs. Abraham Lincoln written shortly after the assassination of her husband showing plainly her pecuniary distress, have been found by B. Sherman Fowler, a composer, of 31 East Forty-ninth Street, in a secret compartment of an old rosewood desk. Both letters are addressed to Benjamin B. Sherman, Mr. Fowler's grandfather, who was a financier and was in charge of the "Dollar Fund" which collected $10,747.77 for Mrs. Lincoln. He was President of the Mechanics National Bank, a founder of the Central Trust Company and of the Union League Club, a Senior Warden of Grace Church and connected with many financial, patriotic and other institutions.
With the letters behind the secret panel, were found the cash book of the "Dollar Fund" and a curious old gold pen which apparently belonged to Mr. Sherman. The desk itself is an heirloom. A cabinet worker recently offered Mr. Fowler $1,000 for it. Mr. Fowler remembers it in the old family mansion at 16 East Twentieth Street, but knew nothing of the hidden compartments until a few days ago, when he became curious over what appeared to be waste space. With a knife he pried open the panel to discover the documents that will probably be turned over to the New York Historical Society as valuable evidence concerning Mrs. Lincoln, a little known person in history.
The first letter is dated the day after Christmas, 1865, and is from Chicago. It reads:
"My Dear Sir: Although my son wrote you a letter on yesterday, I have concluded to write and thank you, most gratefully, for your kind interest in our deeply afflicted family. We have indeed, lost our all: the idolized husband and father is no more with us, and, if possible, our adverse fate and the great injustice of a people who owed so much to my beloved husband does not contribute toward lessening our heavy trials. Sir Morton Peto gave a farewell dinner to his friends in New York in return for their polite attentions to him. We are homeless, and in return for the sacrifices my great and noble husband made, both in his life and in his death, the paltry first year's salary is offered us, under the circumstances; such injustice has been done us as calls the blush to any true, loyal heart. The sum is in reality only $20,000, as the first month's salary was paid my husband, and I presume the tax on it will be deducted from it. The interest of it will be about $1,500. I am humiliated when I think that we are destined to be forever homeless. I can write no more. I remain, very respectfully, Mary Lincoln."
"P. S.—I omitted to say, my dear Mr. Sherman, mentioning to you what has been told me several times lately; persons apparently reliable saying that to their knowledge $10,000 in money toward the dollar fund had been raised in Boston. I mention this so that you might write to Boston to ascertain the truth of this report. Knowing my anxiety to have a home where we could at least have some privacy. And your good feeling for us in our distress will, I am sure, induce you to write about this to B. Excuse my troubling you in this matter, etc. I agree with R. (her son Robert) it is best not to advertise; if there is anything at such an hour as this, it will be forthcoming. M. L."
The Sir Morton Peto referred to was an Englishman much entertained while on a visit to this country, so much so that the contrast between his treatment and that of her dead husband seems to have struck Mrs. Lincoln.
The second letter is dated Chicago, January 13, 1866. The General Spinner alluded to in the second sentence appears to be Francis Elias Spinner, once a shoemaker, and at that date Treasurer of the United States.
"My Dear Sir: The enclosed letter has just been received from Mr. Godfrey. General Spinner, two days ago, sent me the sum allowed by Congress, deducting six weeks from it with interest, making it $22,025, leaving me to pay the income tax, which will leave only $20,000. Presuming, as Mr. Moses and Mr. Godfrey did, that you intend settling with them immediately, by return mail, I sent the draft back to General Spinner to have him place it in seven-thirties, and return it to me. Now what am I to do? Will there be any objections on your part to settle with Moses when you receive this? I can certainly see no reason to the contrary. It will be very inconvenient for me now to change the money as it is placed. May I ask you, as a last favor, to see Mr. Moses and Godfrey, when you receive this, and have the first bill cut down considerably? Your influence can accomplish this. You will see by Mr. Godfrey's letter that there is not an hour's delay. If you will not accede to this proposition, will you please telegraph me, when you receive this. I earnestly request that you see Mr. Godfrey and Moses without fail when you receive this.
"I have written to Mr. Bentley ten days since, with reference to this, and he does not reply. I requested him to have the amount greatly reduced and send me the bill, and urge upon you to settle it. This certainly appeared to be the best use to make of some of the funds you may have. I write in great haste and much harassed by Godfrey's letter and this unsettled business. Will you grant my requests, see Moses and Godfrey, and if you are not inclined to settle with them, please telegraph me, so that by some manner of means, as inconvenient as it is, I must make some arrangements to settle without an hour's delay. As to Mr. Godfrey's expenses to Washington, etc., I had no knowledge of his intention to present himself on the occasion and with my limited means could scarcely meet that expense. Most earnestly praying you will grant my requests, I remain truly and gratefully, Mary Lincoln."
Mr. Fowler does not know the facts about his grandfather's management of the "Dollar Fund," nor who all the persons alluded to may have been. It appears that Moses and Godfrey were lawyers of some kind connected with the matter. Mr. Fowler said that historical experts interested in this matter would be able to discover the facts that were common knowledge in his family fifty-six years ago.
*This article, relating to Mrs. Lincoln, was published in the New York Times, December 17, 1922.
AT THE RAINBOW'S END By Edward C. Sterry
Are you one of those fellows who always want A different job than they've got? Are you one of the kind who always look Across at their brother's lot? The world's just full of folks like this— Forever changing 'round; They kill chance that might be theirs By never gaining ground.
There's a pot of gold at the rainbow's end For the man who sticks to his work; And chances galore are right at your door But they pass by those who shirk.
Stick to your job, fellows—climb to the top; The world needs men who will lead; The reward you'll find at the rainbow's end Is greater than gold, indeed.
—Junior Republic.
EDITORIAL
Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah
Motto—Charity Never Faileth
THE GENERAL BOARD
MRS. CLARISSA SMITH WILLIAMS - - - - - President MRS. JENNIE BRIMHALL KNIGHT - - - - - First Counselor MRS. LOUISE YATES ROBISON - - - - - Second Counselor MRS. AMY BROWN LYMAN - - - - - General Secretary and Treasurer
Mrs. Emma A. Empey Mrs. Lalene H. Hart Mrs. Amy Whipple Evans Mrs. Jeanette A. Hyde Mrs. Lotta Paul Baxter Mrs. Ethel Reynolds Smith Miss Sarah M. McLelland Mrs. Julia A. Child Mrs. Barbara Howell Richards Miss Lillian Cameron Mrs. Cora L. Bennion Mrs. Rosannah C. Irvine Mrs. Annie Wells Cannon Mrs. Julia A. F. Lund Miss Alice Louise Reynolds
Mrs. Lizzie Thomas Edward, Music Director Miss Edna Coray, Organist
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
Editor - - - - - CLARISSA SMITH WILLIAMS Associate Editor - - - - - ALICE LOUISE REYNOLDS Business Manager - - - - - Jeanette A. Hyde Assistant Manager - - - Amy Brown Lyman
Room 29, Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah
Vol. XI FEBRUARY, 1924 No. 2
Lincoln
When we first visited Paris, in 1906, the thing that impressed us above all else was that Napoleon, dead, was more potent than any Frenchman living. This may not be true since the great war. Perchance there is an ever increasing number of persons who, like H. G. Wells, do not count Napoleon among the mighty. Whatever the present status of public opinion, in relation to Napoleon, may be, one thing is surely true, that Abraham Lincoln, dead, is one of the most vital forces in our present day American life. Of recent years he has interested comparatively large groups of poets, novelists, and playwrights who have in turn drawn from his life and works material which has been converted into poems, novels, and drama, as the case required. During the world war he seemed like one among us, for daily we communed with him. The recent visit of David Lloyd George to this country only emphasized the force that Abraham Lincoln is in our 20th century life. The fame of Abraham Lincoln is increasing with the advance of time. Only the greatest of the great may hope for such reward.
Relief Society Clothing Drive for Central Europe
Again the generosity of the Latter-day Saints and the efficiency of their organization have been put to the test. Both factors must exist in order to put over a successful drive. Recently we have seen many bushels of delicious apples going to waste because there was no organization that could pick the apples and place them where it would be desirable to have them. On the other hand, all the organization in the world would be of no avail in distributing apples if there were none to distribute. Much as many people have regretted the fact that in the past few years, in this intermountain country, bushels of potatoes that might have been used by people who needed them have gone to waste, and recently very many boxes of apples, because of the lack of facilities to handle these commodities; we greatly rejoice that both factors are at the disposal of the Church when it is deemed fitting to use them. Recently the Relief Society, supported by the First Presidency, issued a call for clothing to supply the needs of the people in central Europe, principally in the German Mission. With something of the rapidity that follows the touch of an electric button, each stake got to work to collect shoes and clothing and bedding. The result was little less than marvelous. Several carloads of clothes, put in good condition, and shoes, sometimes new and sometimes old, yet repaired for use, have been shipped from the Relief Society headquarters and will, in due process of time, arrive at the headquarters of the Swiss and German Mission, where President Tadje will take charge of them and superintend their distribution.
We include in the current issue of the magazine, a photograph of the collection of clothes in the process of being packed for shipping to Europe. Also we include a photograph of the boxes at the completion of the packing in Utah stake. These two pictures will give an idea of what was accomplished in the general office and in the offices of the various stake organizations. While we published the pictures that chance to be at hand, a goodly number of the stakes furnished boxes of clothes that are in the same class with those furnished by Utah stake.
The generosity of the Latter-day Saints has been tested many times, during and since the war, always with surprising results. The recent call for clothing, which brought together two large rooms full of clothes, both old and new, from which three carloads have already been shipped, is no exception to the rule. The response throughout the Church has been deeply gratifying, and is another evidence of what can be done by an association as completely organized as the Relief Society, and equipped with women whose ability to lead and execute has again made itself manifest in this latest project, as in many others, in times past.
Bobbie Miller, Flapper By S. L. Cheney
Two things were uppermost in Grandma Miller's confused mind as she sat nervously awaiting the zero hour; first, she was to make another effort to reform an impulsive, high-spirited, and too self-reliant granddaughter who had again been guilty of scandalous misconduct; second, judging from past experience, such chastisement and advice as she might give were likely to be absorbed about as readily as water on a rubber mat. Still something must be done and that immediately, for, as Grandma had expressed herself: "Things are coming to a pretty pass when a mere child can spend the night gadding about, half-dressed, with strange and questionable young men to strange and questionable places."
The door opened slightly and a young roguish countenance appeared in the aperture. A countenance which would have been more than ordinarily attractive had not nurture stepped in with powder, paint, henna-rinse, and scissors, and robbed nature of some of its best handiwork. Still the large, expressive, blue eyes, oval face, pretty teeth, and dimpled chin beneath a mass of beautiful, though abbreviated curls, were sufficient to excite envy in her own sex and admiration and covetousness in those of the opposite; a thing which no one knew better than Frances Bobbie Miller herself. And, it may be added, it was no small part of her philosophy of life to see that they continued to do so.
"Hello, Granny. Did you want to see me?" came in a saucy alto voice.
"Yes, Frances," replied her grandmother with subdued gentleness.
"Don't call me Frances!" exclaimed the spirited debutante, "It sounds too much like hoop-skirts and powdered wigs."
"Well, bless me, but that is what you were christened, my dear."
"Yes, I know, but it wasn't my fault; besides that was seventeen years ago. Times have changed since then, and people ought to have done so," she insinuated.
"What shall I call you, then, Fran—?"
"Oh—oh, anything but that!" interrupted the exasperated leader of Millburg's younger set, and she stamped her dainty little French-heeled slippers upon the highly-polished floor in exaggerated fury. "Bobbie is my nineteen twenty-four appellation. It's both short and sweet as the fellows say. Please oblige me in future by calling me Bobbie."
Grandmother made no immediate reply to this imperious request, for her vision was busily engaged in taking inventory of the expensive gown recently displayed at the "New Paris Shop," on Main Street. A gown Frances knew her grandmother strongly objected to, but for reasons entirely unconvincing. That was like Frances. She was at an age when counsel was most needed but there was no one to whom she would listen. She had no parents and insisted upon taking the advice given by her grandmother as either scoldings or jokes and therefore, paid no attention to it. So far she had been holding herself above water by her own ingenuity but at any time her environment might present an unconquerable situation. If it did so, she was lost, since there was no trusted person to whom she could turn for assistance.
For a time Bobbie watched the obvious struggle going on before her with secret amusement. Slowly her gaze traveled from the twitching hands to the quivering chin and tear-filled eyes. Yes—the eyes were filled with tears which had started to overflow and trickle down care-worn cheeks. A big heart, whose varied impulses had seldom been inhibited, awoke at once.
"Why, Grandma," exclaimed the girl in alarm, as she sprang from her chair and threw her arms around the old lady's neck. "forgive me, I was only teasing you. Why, you are the dearest sweetest Granny in the whole world. I wouldn't do a thing to hurt you. If I could live without, but I can't. Why, if I tried being like the girls were sixty years ago I'd be ostracized from society—yes, worse than that, I'd be locked up in a mental hospital. Times have changed so, don't you see Grandma?"
A sporty, maroon-colored roadster drew up in front of the house and as the shrill honk of the horn sounded Frances ran to the window.
"There is Billy, now," she exclaimed, "I must jazz along, but don't you worry anymore about your little ewe lamb, Granny mine. Take my word for it she'll be all right. And if she only had that new gown she would go to the concert with Dr. Van Devener just to please you, if for no other reason."
Grandma felt a warm kiss pressed upon her brow. She looked up. Her granddaughter smiled engagingly, tossed her curls, pirouetted, and was gone.
"Shucks!" muttered Grandma but there was a look in her kindly old eyes which said that she was not entirely displeased.
For several minutes after the door closed, Grandma sat silent and thoughtful, her soul still thrilling at the sincere though fleeting caress which had afforded her a momentary recognition of the feelings and sympathies of a real girl beneath so deceiving an exterior. If only that moment could have lasted until they had arrived at a better understanding, but as ever, the impulses which actuated her granddaughter refused to grant an extended period of seriousness. Yet, somehow, the very wilfulness of this thoughtless, high-spirited girl demanded admiration. Her words, her actions, in fact almost everything about her, gave evidence of red blood running at its highest; craving change, excitement, and frivolity, as strongly as the aged crave quiet and rest. Grandma knew the signs, for she had experienced just such desires. Had she gratified them? Her eyes twinkled with mischievous intent, as in reminiscence she again lived through those brilliant years of girlhood when young, beautiful, and active she had been as a wild young thing among other wild young things; seeking sensation as ardently as the morning-glory seeks the sun. She, too, had endeavored to break away from the too austere, adult conventionalisms, because they interfered with her desires, and as a result, had shocked her august father and dear, though perhaps too circumspect mother by kissing her beaus, attending all-night parties, and wearing low-necked, short-sleeved dresses. All such unrestrained actions had offered her deep though stolen satisfaction. In fact the more unrestrained and excessive, the more pleased she had been with herself and the more highly approved, praised, and sought after by others of her set. What more could the young belle of a town want? It had seemed to her that this constituted about all there was worth living for, and in order to realize it she had rejected as absurdly antique much of the advice proffered by her elders. She had never realized the nature of the pain and worry she must have caused, until it had fallen to her lot to pass through a like experience in the training of her wilful orphan granddaughter. To her it seemed a punishment as well as a hopeless task to control and properly direct this exaggerated reproduction of her early self. Her duty, however, was evident. She would never cease striving with the child, no matter what should happen; her love and an impelling desire to make restitution would not permit her to do so. But that was not all, there was the solemn pledge given to Frances' dying mother, more than eleven years before when a pitiful struggle for life had been in vain. At the last moment she had called Grandma to her bedside and, in a whisper that was barely audible, had pleaded that she would do all in her power to shield her little girl from anything which might mar or tarnish the purity and sweetness of her soul. Grandma had bowed her head and from the fulness of her heart had declared that she would protect the child with her life, if need be. This promise had not been hard to keep until about two years previous when Frances had changed suddenly from a child into a young woman, and became actuated by new and strange impulses and desires which seemed to demand constant change and excitement. The hum-drumness of life with her grandmother no longer sufficed; it took association with young people, as unstable and high-strung as herself, to allow her pent-up energy an opportunity for expression. Grandma recognized this as not only a natural and important but also a very critical stage in her granddaughter's development. She knew that if there ever was a time in a person's life when wise and sympathetic guidance was needed it was at this period. That was it; proper guidance rather than absolute prevention which was too often attempted without success. And no wonder, since to prevent the expression of the numerous, throbbing impulses of youth was like trying to prevent the downward rush of a mountain torrent by placing a dam in its pathway, knowing full well that it would only break out in another place with perhaps added violence. Even supposing some power, human or otherwise, could successfully halt all those wild and uncontrollable cravings, would the outcome be gratifying? Would it not cause such a stagnation as would result in the atrophy of both spirit and energy to the extent of producing a human manikin instead of a well-developed man? Grandma's experience assured her that there was not as much exaggeration in such a conclusion as one might think. But her problem was by no means solved. It was all very well to talk of wise guidance that would encourage some tendencies and discourage others, but when all the fads and fancies seemed alike vicious, where was one to draw the line? It were as easy to decide which was the more dangerous: Scylla or Charybdis. But whenever this thought registered in her mind she discarded it as being too morbid to be true. It smacked too much of a by-gone generation, a generation which judged from the exterior only. What reason had she for being so sure that evil results would follow all of Frances' doings? Mayhap the muck through which she appeared to be wallowing would cling no more tenaciously to her soul than did the excessive paint to her face. Perhaps when the time came she would slough it off as easily. A number of the young matrons with whom Grandma was acquainted, had apparently done so. Why not Frances? But there were others who had not; young, innocent girls who had come to the dividing of the ways and in their blind ignorance had taken the one leading to their disgrace and destruction. Grandma shuddered as she thought of them. Frances must be saved from such a fate at all hazards. But how was it to be done and by whom? She steadfastly rejected counsel coming from anyone except members of her own set, and as these were as reckless as herself there was little hope in that direction. If only she would sever connections with her present associates and acquire new ones in more respectable circles; and especially if she would choose her future escorts from among those of irreproachable morals such as young Dr. Van Devener, Grandma felt that everything would be all right. But she was helpless before the task of bringing this about. There was perhaps one chance in a hundred that she could succeed, and that was to purchase the new gown which would insure Frances' accepting the company of Dr. Van Devener for one evening at least. It would probably end at that but then there was a slight chance of its developing into something of a more lasting nature. Such a purchase would demand of her a great sacrifice, not only financially, by necessitating the spending of savings hoarded for the purpose of making a visit, perhaps the last, to an only sister residing in Oregon. But also in moral sentiment which cried out against the present tendency of dressing in a manner to expose so much of one's person to the cold, sensual gaze of evil-eyed men. To Grandma it seemed a pollution of that which should be held most sacred. But then there was the chance that this evil might combat a greater one. It might be the charm that would divert the turbulent spirit of her granddaughter into safer channels. Such a result would more than compensate for any sacrifice. The gown ought to be purchased tonight and so avoid a possible refusal of Dr. Van Devener's invitation before it could be secured in the morning. But would there be time? Already the light in the room was fast being dissolved by lengthening shadows, prophetic of approaching night, while the stately grandfather's clock pointed out its message of five-thirty; only half an hour before the closing of the business day. If she could only order by phone and have a special delivery made, but this she was afraid to attempt not trusting her ability to describe the gown in a way that would clearly designate it. She must and would get it herself. Sighing wearily she arose from her chair and went as hastily as possible to her bedroom where she secured her hand-bag and a heavy wrap and without further delay left the house. Once upon the street, she discovered that it was snowing heavily, that the sidewalks were already covered with a wet, slippery surface. In her haste she had forgotten her rubbers and umbrella, but there was no time to return for them, so with scarcely a moment's hesitation she started down the street. There were four blocks to go; three to Main street and one down to the corner of Main and Washington. It was a long way to walk especially on a night like this but to go over to Broadway and run chances on having to wait ten or fifteen minutes for a street car was not to be thought of. She proceeded as rapidly as possible along the slushy sidewalk, slipping frequently and being still further disconcerted by the blinding barrage of snow. To make things worse, old rheumatic pains commenced stabbing their way through her joints with unmitigated fury. Her strength began to ebb, but this loss was compensated for by an increase in determination, so that she obstinately refused to heed the dictates of reason which warned her either to stop or turn back. Even when escaping a bad fall by the merest chance, as a result of stumbling from the curb at Second Avenue, she only set her teeth more firmly, clinched her hands, and continued. By the time First Avenue was reached she was trembling uncontrollably and decided to rest a minute in the semi-protected entrance to the Congregational church. From this point she could hear the muffled throbbing of motors and see the continuous blur of light which announced Main Street. They came as a challenge to her further endurance, and in a sort of desperation she accepted the challenge, goading her faltering limbs into hesitating, slipping, sliding, stumbling action. She reached Main Street almost in a state of panic, but recovered her assurance to a certain extent at the sight of the passing throngs. Here, at least, was help, even though it should not be called upon. Permitted now to think somewhat less of her own safety, her thoughts centered more upon her errand. Would the shop be closed before she could reach it? Or, worse still, would the gown be sold? Strange to say, this last possibility had not entered her mind before. The fear it caused, strongly stimulated her lagging spirits, and with quickened steps she threaded her way through the nondescript crowds of business men, shoppers, newsboys, and window gazers, entirely unaware of the attention she attracted, in fact, unaware of everything except the one fervent, impelling, almost prayerful desire that she would not be too late. When finally she reached her destination, tears of gratitude sprang into her eyes, for there was the gown in all its brilliancy, still draped gracefully upon a form in the window as it had been when first she saw it. And beyond, clerks were still busily engaged waiting on customers. Grandma felt a pang of conscience as she gazed at the flimsy material before her and realized her intentions of buying it as a covering for her pretty granddaughter. A covering! Why it would cover no more space than an old-fashioned chemise. Still it must be the style since all the smartly dressed young ladies wore just such frocks, apparently vulgarly designed for the purpose of showing much and suggesting more. What motive other than the most morbid could possibly sanction such styles? Yet here she was seemingly adding her approval by purchase and from motives entirely of the best. And what harm could come of it? Supposing she didn't buy this dress? Frances would be sure to get one like it in cut if not in quality and—. Here Grandma's train of thought was suddenly interrupted by a saleslady who had stepped into the window and begun removing the gown from before her eyes. Was she selling it? Grandma caught her breath as she hurriedly entered the store. A fleeting vision of a tall, handsomely-dressed young man counting out bills was quite sufficient to convince her.
1. Stumbling up to the clerk she cried out appealingly, "Wait a minute, please, I want to buy that dress."
2. "I am sorry, madam, but it has just been sold to this gentleman."
3. Something like a moan escaped Grandma as she clutched at the counter for support. Too late! Too late to help Frances! What could be done? The young man and saleslady exchanged wondering glances across the counter, then the man said in a slightly husky voice, "Let her have it. There is another down at Robbins that will suit my sister quite as well."
4. Grandma turned and thanked her benefactor in a tremulous voice. Why it was Dr. Van Devener! She had failed to recognize him before. It was very embarrassing that he should be the purchaser.
5. "No thanks are due, Mrs. Miller," said the doctor graciously dismissing the subject. "How are you these wintry days? I hope your rheumatism isn't troubling you."
6. "Thank you, I am feeling quite well," she replied sinking down on a stool. Dr. Van Devener watched her closely as she opened her worn handbag and extracted the necessary money for the purchase. He noted the weary expression on her face, the trembling body and wet feet, and mentally predicted a "bad spell" as a result.
7. "We will send it up the first thing in the morning," explained the clerk as she placed the carefully folded gown in a box preparatory to wrapping.
8. "I wish to take it with me," declared Grandma, "I must have it tonight."
9. "Very well, it will be ready in a minute."
10. "I see, Mrs. Miller, that you have walked down this evening. A very unwise thing to do in such weather. Let me beg of you not to attempt walking back. My car is at the curb and I shall be more than glad to take you home," said the doctor.
11. "It is very kind of you, I am sure, but I couldn't think of putting you to so much trouble," faltered Grandma.
12. "No trouble at all, as I am going your way it will simply afford me a desired opportunity of having a brief chat with you."
She knew that it had not been his previous intention to go her way, but that was like him; always trying to help someone and doing it in such a way as to appear that the effort cost him nothing. However, she had no desire to refuse. To be taken home so speedily and comfortably was the most pleasant thing she could think of just then. Without waiting for her answer he took the well wrapped package which was placed upon the counter and then carefully assisted her out of the store and across the slippery sidewalk to where his sedan stood waiting. A few minutes later he helped her up the steps to her own door. After being assured with many thanks that there was nothing else he could do, he raised his hat and bade her a cheery good-night. She watched his stalwart form as he swung down the steps and out to his car through the falling snow and wondered why it was that a girl of Frances' intelligence could not recognize his vast superiority to the jazz-loving fellows she insisted on going with. Then her thoughts turned to her own comfort and she heaved a sigh of relief. How good it was to be back. Soon her own cozy room would afford her the quiet and rest she so much needed. In her haste to secure the latchkey to unlock the door she lost control of the package which slid from under her arm to the railing and from thence down to the walk in front. She must get it at once or the gown would become wet and soiled. Grasping the railing with both hands she very carefully descended the slippery steps to where the package lay. Picking it up she wiped it dry and then stopped to consider her position. Handicapped with the package as she was she disliked the idea of having to go back up those steps alone. For her they were dangerous at best and tonight, laden with snow and sleet, they presented a real difficulty. But with care perhaps she could manage. She placed her right foot firmly on the first step but as she attempted to raise the other, both feet shot out from underher and she fell heavily forward, striking her head against the edge of the top step. For a time she lay quite unconscious of all her aches and pains, then slowly recovering she became aware of a terrible throbbing in her head, and such a feeling of general weakness and nausea that it seemed impossible for her to move. She would lie still for a few minutes until it passed away before attempting to go in, The package had slipped from her grasp and was being covered with snow on the steps beside her. Fearing lest the dampness would ruin the gown, she exerted all her strength in an effort to reach out and draw it under her. The task was accomplished; the gown lay protected from the snow by her body but she ceased to be aware of the fact. Her last thought as she drifted off into oblivion was a sort of prayer that Frances would BOBBIE MILLER, FLAPPER 75 not return in time to find her lying there. She would feel so disturbed about it. For several hours the snow continued to cover Grandma's prostrate form with a protecting mantle, falling quietly so as not to disturb her slumbers, Then it ceased and the moon came into view, looking down upon the earth in a clear, cold, impersonal manner; dissolving the shadows and freezing the ponds; bringing to light a pile of snow oddly heaped up on Mrs. Miller's front steps. But there was no one to see or wonder. At it. The entire city was asleep with the exception of a few unholy places where reckless youth still drank in reckless enjoyment. Perhaps the most noted of these was "Tom's Place," a disorderly roadhouse twelve miles out, where, under the protecting shades of night, all manner of sin was sold to the young in the guise of pleasure. As usual they had been having a gay "rough-house," but as day approached the greater part of the nondescript crowd had gradually departed. Only a few remained and most of these were so under the effect of intoxicants that it was likely they would not be able to leave for some time. Two or three couples alone were trying to keep up the spirit of the evening but even they showed signs of weariness. At a table in one corner of the main room, slightly screened from the others, sat Frances somewhat disheveled and effervescing with a devil-may-care cheerfulness. Across the table sat her escort, Billy Ryan, heavy-se', heavy-jawed, heavy-eyed, in fact heavy in everything except his neatly waxed baby mustache and securely cooped-up brains. But he had an unlimited supply of money, recklessness, slang and sleeked hair, so what more could a girl want? They had arrived late which probably accounted for the fact that they were more alert than the others, still there was an unnatural luster about their eyes and a flush about their cheeks which evidenced a night of dissipation. They had come here ostensibly to dance, but tiring of this were now amusing themselves with cigarettes and chatter interspersed with peals of almost uncontrollable laughter. It ought to be said in justice to Frances, that with all her love for the sensational, this night's doings were going a little too far, and she quietly resolved not to let herself in for such another. *She would have objected to it this evening if she could have done so without losing her reputation as a good sport. She had been in with a smart set as usual looking for the unusual. After dancing themselves into a glow to the tune of a ripping jazz orchestra they had gone to McReady's for a midnight luncheon. Under the excitement of it all, Frances was enveigled into drinking too many cocktails which aroused her dare-devil spirits to the point where nothing 76 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE seemed impossible. Thus when the party broke up and Billy dared her to make a night of it by going slumming, she had accepted the dare; but when she discovered the kind of place that Billy was taking her to, she regretted her hastily given assent and tried to dissuade him, but to no avail. "This is a tough place, I know," he had said, "but what's the harm in stepping in and seeing how they carry on? They can hurt us because we won't let 'em. Surely, Bobbie, with all your boasted sportiness you wouldn't back out now? You're not weakenin', are you?" This taunt was too much for Frances, so she permitted him to escort her to a table where shortly a foul-smelling waiter made his appearance carrying a badly-soiled napkin on one arm. "Fill 'em up," ordered Billy. "Something for a lady," he added with a wink. Frances was against taking another drink because she felt rather giddy already, but when the glasses were filled she did not dare refuse for fear of angering her escort. Almost immediately she had a sensation of uncontrollable cheerfulness and knew that she talked and laughed a great deal and that Billy did the same, but for the life of her she did not know what it was all about. Finally, after regaining her senses somewhat, Billy's voice came to her through a haze: 'Well, kid, are we going to get married, or are we ain't?" He had asked her the same question a great many times without receiving a satisfactory answer, for while she liked him as a pal her instincts warned her against him as a husband. But after that last cocktail she was not herself. His question appealed to her only as a witty remark and so she responded with a peal of laughter. "What do you say, Clover B'ossom?" Reaching across the table he seized her hands, then allowed his fingers to crawl slowly, clingingly along her bare arms until they clutched at her shoulders. "When?" she giggled. "When?" he exulted, "Why this very night. We will take a run out to Camden and be Mr. And Mrs. Ryan before sunrise. What do you say?" The situation was a scream. She had never known Billy to be so funny. "Say, but you are a foolish one, ain't you, Billy?" she teased. "IT may be. Foolish but I know what I want. It's you for me, now that you've grown up," he declared endeavoring to pull her bodily across the table toward him, knocking off the glasses in the attempt. "What do you say, "Toots?" BOBBIE MILLER, FLAPPER  77 "Aw, Billy, behave, you're hurting me. Let me go and let's be jazzing home," she cried petulantly. A waiter came up hurriedly to investigate what the crashing of glass meant. "What's my bill?"' demanded Billy, Looking disapprovingly at the broken glass, the waiter frowned and replied: 'Twenty-five dollars.". That's easy. Here's an extra five to polish your manners. Now, Bobbie, kiddo, let's be having your answer so that we can clear out of this hold-up joint." "Why you ain't really serious about getting married, are you, Billy? You don't really want to settle down, do you?" "Who spoke of settling down? It's me for the high lights now and forever. What does the poet say, "Some for the glories of this world; and some Sigh for the prophets paradise to come.' "Well, I'm for the glories of this world. What I want is— "A jug of wine, a loaf of bread, and thou—' "Oh, how does that go? But, then, you know what I mean." "Billy, you'd sure be funny tonight if you didn't insist on being serious, but as it is you're just ridiculous. Here you are wanting to get married when we don't even know whether we're in love with each other. Besides, Granny never would consent." "It ain't like you to be worrying over what your Granny might think. And about being in love, I guess we are about as much so as they ever get. Be reasonable, Bobbie. We've got along just Swell, haven't we? Don't that argue that we always will? But supposin' we didn't it might be the saving of some lawyer's life to be provided with a divorce case, and then we'd be just as happy and free as ever, only more so. Just think what a sensation our elopement would cause, why it would be the talk of the town. There wouldn't be a girl in the country but what would envy you, now would there, Toots?" She had lost the power of reasoning clearly. If only she hadn't taken that last drink. Billy had seriously proposed, that is 'as seriously as he knew how, and was waiting for her answer. What should she—what cou'd she do! Her grandmother would certainly object to her marrying Billy, but then wasn't she likely to object to anyone whom she might wish to marry, since she had a way of objecting to almost everything she, Frances, did. This would give her an opportunity of escaping constant nagging. Then the sensation which her elopement would cause would simply be ki ling; as Billy said it would be the talk of the town. The newspapers would perhaps announce it in glaring headlines: 78 ' "RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE "The Pretty Seventeen-year Old Daughter of the Late Judge Miller Elopes with Bank President's Son," or, "Pretty Mill Miller Becomes Sto! En Bride of Popular Billy Ryan." ' Perhaps they would publish her picture on the front page. Wouldn't that be great? The girls would simply turn green with envy. Yes, she would marry him, marry him tonight. Then the light gradually waned from her eyes as her instinct assured her that the most important reason for accepting Billy was because she was afraid to do otherwise. He had such a temper that there was no telling what he might do if she refused him, A thinly masked expression of fear lurked in her large blue eyes as she turned her head and looked up into his face. "Do—you promise that if we shouldn't like each other we will get a divorce?" she stammered. "Surest thing in the world, Toots. Now do you consent?" "Yes," she faltered. "Hurrah!" he yelled jumping to his feet with her in his arms and proceeding to do a dance-stagger around the room, singing in a stentorian voice: "We're going to be married! Hurrah! Hurrah! We're going to be married! Hurrah! You tell 'em, Si, Because it's no lie, We're going to be married! Hurrah!" Everyone in the room looked on with more of an air of boredom than astonishment. Such sights were not exactly infrequent here, A livelier interest was manifested, however, when Billy, staggering to a seat, ordered the glasses fi'led up all around. With coarse jests, oaths, and loud laughter, for freedom reigned — here and every one expressed himself as he pleased, the health of the two was drunk and then almost immediately the excitement ceased, the drinkers returning to their interrupted chatter, smoking, and dozing like ''A dog to his vomit, or a sow to her wallowing in the mire." Hastily putting on their wraps Bobbie and Billy left the place. Once in the powerful new roadster Billy stepped on the gas sending the car spinning over the smooth, snow-covered road at the rate of about sixty miles an hour. Several times they narrowly escaped turning over but neither was in a condition to know or care, They wanted to reach Camden and did not intend wasting time on the way. It was very cold, a fact which they soon realized. Frances, particularly, began to feel it and nestled more closely to Billy for protection. Still in a way, she welcomed the biting air since it was gradually dispelling the fog from her mind.. She was eloping BOBBIE MILLER, FLAPPER 73 with the man beside her. Was it the proper thing to do? But it was too late now to entertain misgivings; besides, Billy's strong, young arm placed caressingly about her and the soothing purr purr of the motor served to allay her fears. She even smiled at the thought of how her grandmother would alternately scold and weep over the affair. It would be a scream. Why. She wouldn't miss it for anything! ' The city lay between them and their destination, and as they reached it Frances suggested that they drive around by her place and get some more wraps before going on to Camden. "Would it be safe?' he questioned, "Safe," she slurred, "why not safe? Don't I go in and out any time of the day or night I want to? Besides, Granny will be dead to the world at this time of night." "Well, just as you say, but you'll have to make it snappy," he replied swinging the car into a side street and shortly coming to a sliding stop before the door. "I won't be a minute. You just keep the seat nice and warm until I come back," and without waiting for his assistance, she sprang out and skipped across the sidewalk. Running up the steps she stumbled and nearly fell over an odd heap of snow which she had failed to observe. "O Billy, come here, quick," she cried in alarm. With an oath he left the car and joined her on the steps. Quite as bewildered as she, he quickly brushed away the crusted coating of snow revealing the slight figure of a woman lying face downward. Taking hold of one shoulder he turned the body over. The woman, whoever she was, appeared to be dead. A scream of horror escaped Frances as she recognized the still, death-like face of her grandmother. "Bring her in! Bring her in!" she cried hysterically as with frantic efforts she produced a latch key and opened the door. Billy, somewhat sobered by the sight, picked up the frail burden and followed Frances into the house, inwardly cursing the luck which had temporarily interrupted their plans. He laid her on a couch near the fireplace while Frances; trembling violently, snatched a phone directory, and commenced searching its pages. They must have a doctor. One name alone flashed into her mind: Dr: Van Devener. She jerked the phone towards her staring fixedly at a certain number. "Main 5771," she almost shrieked. Then after what seemed an eternity a deep, rich voice came to her over the wire; "Hello, this is Dr. Van Devener." "This is Frances, Frances Miller. Please come over at once, something terrible has happened to Grandma." Scarcely waiting for an answer she snapped the receiver so RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE back into place and dashed to the side of the couch where she desperately began chafing her grandmother's frozen arms, hands, and face,, "Why doesn't the doctor come?" she asked over and over, although but a few minutes had elapsed since she had called him. For the first time she commenced to wonder why her grandmother had been found in such a condition. Vaguely she recalled having seen a package clasped in her arms. Why, she must have been out shopping, but what for? As she moved around the couch, her foot struck against something. She glanced down, recognizing the package. In the confusion it had been extricated from its embrace and now lay at her feet in a torn and trampled condition. Something snapped in Frances' brain as she caught _a glimpse of what it contained. She stooped and tore the covering away. Yes—it was the gown! The gown she had pestered her grandmother about so much. The truth of the whole situation burned its way into her guilty conscience. It had been bought so that she, Frances, would go to the concert with Dr. Van Devener, and why? Oh, she knew. After her narrow escape tonight, she knew! Her glance wandered to where Billy stood with an unsympathetic almost a bored expression on his darkly flushed face. A feeling of intense repungance seized her. "Please go," she commanded. "Who, me?" he asked in astonishment. "Yes," she replied firmly. A glint of anger sprang into his eyes but without another word he bowed stiffly and left the room. Almost at the same instant the doctor arrived, his large expressive brown eyes and handsome face bespeaking more than professional concern. Frances came toward him appealingly, "We found her on the steps—" then her voice trailed off into an hysterical moan and she could say no more. "There, there, Miss Miller," he said reassuringly as he grasped her outstretched hands, "perhaps it won't be so bad 'after all. We'll see what can be done." He went immediately to where Grandma lay stretched out on the couch. One glance at the bruised forehead told him the story. He took her wrist between his long deft fingers and felt for the pulse but there was no evidence of life there. Hastily securing a stethoscope from his bag he proceeded to listen very carefully for anything that might give evidence of a beating heart. Frances watching him was sure that she read the worst in the expression of his sensitive features. Oh, what would she do! What would she do! With speechless lips and staring eyes she sank down on her knees, by the side of the cold, silent, expressionless form, She did not hear the words of encouragement the doctor uttered. She did not even seem to BOBBIE MILLER, FLAPPER 81 realize that he was still standing at her side. One idea alone possessed her; dear old Grandma would be with her no more. Her dearest, sweetest, truest friend had left her. And why? The accusing finger pointed at her, at her thoughtlessness, her way-wardness, her recklessness her unappreciativeness. Yes, she was the guilty one. She had allowed her grandmother to worry over her, plead with her, sacrifice for her without ever sensing or understanding the true purpose of it all. It had taken this last supreme sacrifice to bring her to her senses. Like coals of fire this thought burned in her brain to the exclusion of all others. "Grandma has given her life to save me." Violent sobs shook her small body, great tears sprang into her eyes, then overflowed, plowing red and white furrows as they ran down her painted cheeks. With a moan she sank forward, her trembling hands caressing the cold, white cheeks as she bent her head until her lustrous curls mingled with the thin gray locks beneath. "Grandma, dear, sweet Grandma," she murmured fervently, and her quivering, tear-stained lips touched those once so eagerly responsive, now cold and silent. She was grasped forcibly by the shoulders and a to her feet. "Now—now, don't give way like this. So much depends upon the help you will be able to render. I must have your "assistance," came in deep commanding tones from the doctor. "Then, she is not—" gasped Frances, a flame of hope flaring up within her. "No, thank heaven. With proper care she may be her normal self within a few days. The snow was very merciful, Frances, it covered and protected her." "Then, you--you can save her?' cried Frances appealingly, her large blue eyes reflecting a wealth of confidence and assurance in him. "Yes, Frances," he replied his rich voice trembling under the strain of control placed upon it, "We can save her." Cleaning Household Silver By Ethel Cutler Butt When you have been eating in a good hotel or on a pullman dining car you have doubtless noticed the pleasing effect which the brightly polished silverware has had on the enjoyment of the meal. Bright silverware has a suggestion of cleanliness which adds materially to the enjoyment of the meal, The reason for the brightness of the silverware, in a dining car, is made plain if one passes through, between meals, and sees how vigorously the darkies polish the tableware. Of course. The housewife has so many other things to do that she cannot spend the hours keeping her silver clean that the darkies can. Yet any good housewife who has made a careful study of the effect of bright silver on the meal tries to keep the tarnish off, as far as her time permits. To make the most of the time she has for doing this task, the woman should have a good knowledge of the materials she must work with, the best methods of cleaning and the results to be expected. The problem of cleaning silver is of comparatively recent origin in the ordinary home, The price of silver made it prohibitive except among the wealthy, in former times. It has not been a great while since wood was the most common material used for spoons and other tools used by the housewife. Tinned iron was used by some but it was not satisfactory for most purposes. Today it would be hard to find a household without at least one set of flat silver. Much of our present day silverware, however, is plated, and not the solid kind used in past ages. About a century ago scientists learned to deposit silver on any type of metal so that it looks as good as the solid silver and is much less expensive. The fact that the silver is only on the surface of the iron or other metal which makes up most of the utensil, complicates the problem of cleaning it. Not a little silverware ls ruined because the housewife cleans it with commercial preparations, or with other substances which dissolve or wear away the silver coating leaving the gross metal base exposed. In order to work intelligently, in cleaning silverware, and in preventing it from needing cleaning frequently, it is necessary to understand what causes the tarnish, as well as the different ways in which it may be removed. The tarnish on silver is caused by the union of this metal with some other element, the most common being oxygen or sulphur. Most every housewife has noticed the tarnished effect which the white of an egg causes on spoons and forks. This tarnish, as well as that coming from the contact of CLEANING HOUSEHOLD SILVER 83 silver with rubber articles, is due to the sulphur in these substances. The appearance of tarnish on silver which has been lying idle, may be due to the union of the oxygen of the air with the silver.; Even with the best of care silverware will tarnish. To remove it there are two methods: the most common but the hardest with the use of silver-polishes, the others by electrolysis. The common polishes now on the market may be in the form of soaps, liquids. Pastes, or powders. They usually depend upon one or more of the following active ingredients for their merit: CaCO,, or powdered limestone, sal soda, salt, soap, rottonstone, iron rust or silicon although other substances are sometimes used. Soap, ammonia, oxalic acid, salt, soda ash, and some others depend upon their chemical action for their usefulness, but most of them merely wear the tarnish off the same way as emery stone wears away a metal. If any of these are used, perhaps the best one would be the powdered limestone, or whiting, or Paris white as it is usually called, when bought for this purpose. Its inexpensiveness is a strong recommendation when such a cleanser is desired. The most common way of using it is to place it in a cheese cloth, dip it in a small quantity of water, and shake it so as to cause the powder to filter into the water and be precipitated. This precipitate is used to do the polishing. While the polishes will do good work, they are messy, and they require much unnecessary time and energy. Also they cause the silver plating to wear off quickly and give the finish a scratchy appearance. The more recent and probably the better method is that of removing the tarnish by means of a chemically created electrical current, which at the same time redeposits silver on the utensil. This method, called electrolysis, if used properly, saves wear, gives a soft finish and is quick as well as clean and cheap. To use this method it is necessary to have (1) a silver cleaning pan, (2) a bright aluminum pan, or (3) a bright tin pan. These metal pans assist in the removal of the tarnish and the redeposition of the silver. The patented silver cleaning pans, sold on the market, may be somewhat expensive for the average housewife. Most every household has at least one aluminum pan, however, and if this is bright and clean it may be used as successfully as the patented one. The chemicals to be used in the cleaning will cause some of the aluminum to be taken out of the pan, and it will wear out a little quicker than if not used often for cleaning in this way. The wearing away is so slow that it will not ordinarily be noticed. Bright tin pans are nearly as satisfactory as either of the two above mentioned pans, and their low cost recommends them to those not having one of the others,. 84. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE The solution which does the cleaning consists of one tablespoonful each of baking soda and ordinary table salt to each quart of hot water. When the hot water is poured onto the soda and salt in the pan there is rapid bubbling for a few seconds, so the pan in which the cleaning is to be done should not be too full. As soon as the violent bubbling has subsided, the silver, which has, of course, been made as clean by washing as if it were to be placed on the dinner table, is dropped into the pan so that each ' piece is resting upon the pan. After it has been in the solution for two or three minutes the silver is taken out and rinsed in water. The salt solution should be poured out of the pan as soon as the cleaning is finished, to prevent the chemical action of the salts from wearing it away. Silver cleaned in this way lasts as long as, or longer than, that cleaned by ordinary polishing. Some housewives think it necessary to clean silver once a week or oftener but this is unnecessary and wears away the utensils. A two-week period is often enough if the silver is not left in contact with substances such as eggs, rubber, etc., that cause rapid tarnishing. Washing silver soon after using with clean, hot, soapy water, and then rinsing in hot water and wiping dry, will usually prevent tarnishing of silver which is not in constant use. EIGHT WOMEN ELECTED TO BRITISH PARLIAMENT The results of the late election in Great Britain are of more than passing interest to the women of the world, as election returns show that eight women have won seats in the British Parliament. For nearly two years Lady Astor was the only woman in the British House of Commons. September, 1921, she was joined by Mrs. Wintringham. The election of 1922 brought thirty-two women candidates into the field, but only two were elected, Lady Astor and Mrs. Wintringham. Since that time, a third woman, Mrs. Hilton Philipson, was chosen at a by-election to fill her husband's place. In the contest just over, not only have these three women been reelected, but five other women candidates have been successful. Among the five are, first, the Duchess of Atholl, from a district in Scotland. Lady Terrington who, like Lady Astor, is the wife of a peer, stands for South Bucks; she appears to be especially interested in agriculture. Miss Margaret Bondfield, who is interested in labor, is from Northampton; she is one of the talented platform lecturers of Great Britain. Miss Susan Lawrence is from the district of East Ham, and is regarded as an expert in local government. Miss Dorothy Jewson is the new member from Norwich and is reported as being interested in the social problems of her native country.
Items About Women
Chinese Women Make Rapid Strides
Central China has now granted women's suffrage, and a woman—Wong Chang-Koo—sits in the parliament of Central China. The women of Central China worked for twenty years for their vote. An active campaign for equal suffrage is now in progress in Southern China and women are to introduce in the next national parliament, a bill for equal suffrage, equal right to education, equality with men before the law, prohibition of slave selling, and improved marriage laws. The women of India are also asking for equal right to education and equal suffrage; evidently the Oriental woman has caught the spirit of her sister in the Occident.
Police Hotel for Accommodation of Travelers
Mrs. May Sullivan, who walked from Wyoming to Maine summer resorts, was the first person to accept the hospitality of the New Rochelle Police Department which recently began furnishing accommodations for the night to women travelers and visiting officials of cities unable to obtain proper hotel quarters. On the top floor of the New Rochelle police headquarters Commissioner Tubbs has arranged a corridor of rooms with all the conveniences of a modern hotel. Owing to the limited number of hotels in the city it was a nightly occurrence for a traveler to approach the desk lieutenant and inquire where accommodations could be obtained. Most of these requests were made by women, and finally Sergeant Robert McMillin and Patrolman Martin Larkin evolved the idea of transforming the upper unoccupied floors of headquarters into sleeping quarters for each applicant. The two policemen were encouraged by Commissioner Tubbs. The Civic League also lent its aid, and as a result McMillin and Larkin have established the first police hotel in the United States, where weary travelers are accommodated at night, free of charge, as a matter of public convenience and not for violation of the law. The furnishings of the suites were presented by the Civic League and they were installed by Mrs. Dudley Harcourt Goldsmith, president, and Mrs. Benjamin B. Badeau, secretary of the organization. The rooms are large and airy. With a view of Long Island Sound and New Rochelle harbor. They are tastefully decorated and furnished with white dressers with large mirrors, cushioned chairs and beds with snowy white blankets.
Mrs. Sullivan, leaving headquarters, after spending the night, said, "that it was the finest and best hotel she had found."
Women in Professional Life
Recent statistics in the United States show that one out of every thirty of the editorials published are written by women. On a given Sunday during the summer it was reported that 170 of the sermons were preached by women. Women are making about one plea in the courts out of every two hundred, while ninety per cent of the education of the children of the United States is in the hands of women. About eleven million women are at the present time earning their livelihood in one way or another.
Woman Drafts State Budget Bill
One of the outstanding achievements of women of recent date is that of Mrs. Nellie Brewer Pierce, of Los Angeles, who is recognized as the author of the Budget Bill, aimed at state economy, which has the support of the Governor of California.
Women Culpable with Husbands
A judge at Muskegon, Michigan, declares that a wife who allows liquor to be manufactured or sold in her home, by her husband, must suffer the penalty. "I know from experience, no married man can violate the law unless his wife consents in such cases," he said. "It is time we forgot sympathy and enforced the law equally to man and wife." And he instructed the officers to arrest the women as well as the husbands. "Pleas of poverty will not be considered in the future," added the judge, "it is time we quit encouraging the breeding and rearing of law violators, which children in such homes will be."
Deaf and Dumb Women Preferred
Sidney Smith, proprietor of one of Chicago's big laundries, not long ago, inserted in the newspaper a novel advertisement in which he sought deaf and dumb women as employees in his establishment. He made it clear that he was not operating a charitable institution—that he wanted workers. "I am not in business for my health," said Mr. Smith; "the reason I am advertising for deaf and dumb women is because they do not waste their time and gossip about everything under the sun except suds."
"But deaf and dumb women can talk with their hands," it was suggested.
"The moment they do they have to stop work altogether so they seldom try it," he replied. "I am tired to death of the endless clatter and clack of tongues and the consequent slowing down of business. I have two deaf and dumb women already and they stick to their work. One is worth two of the other magpies."
The Girl Laureate
The poet laureate of Oklahoma has attracted a good deal of attention since her appointment by the governor of that state. In a recent interview given in New York at the McAlpin Hotel, Miss McDougal said that she would favor more music, art and poetry in the schools even if some other branches of the curriculum had to be cut or revised.
Mrs. Cannon on Committee of National Child Welfare Association
Mrs. Annie Wells Cannon, a member of the General Board, has been appealed to by Secretary Herbert Hoover to become a member of the National Committee of the American Child Welfare Association. The board is very greatly honored that the selection of a woman to act in this capacity in our state has fallen to a member of the General Board. It is in line with the kind of work the organization stands for. We extend our heartiest congratulations to Mrs. Cannon.
Dr. Jane Skolfield is keeping up the woman's end of the game in putting over the health program in the State of Utah. During the fall months she has appeared before four audiences on health subjects. She was on the program of the Relief Society Conference, the Utah Federation of Women's Clubs, the Utah Health Association and before the nurses section of the Utah Educational Association.
WE PASS THIS WAY BUT ONCE By William C. T. Adams
"We pass this way but once," Someone said to me today. In my mind a thought arose, I could not drive that thought away.
"We pass this way but once," The words, they ring so true; But note how fast we hurry on While we are passing through.
"We pass this way but once," Our journey we can ne'er retrace, Then why should we be in such haste To reach our final resting place?
"We pass this way but once;" Let's seek some pleasures as we go That life may not be all for naught. Let's take more time, not hurry so. And thus enjoy each fleeting hour While we are passing on our way?
"We pass this way but once;" Let us then enjoy each day And do whatever good we can As we are passing on our way.
Notes from the Field By Amy Brown Lyman
California Mission. The Palo Alto Relief Society is very active and energetic in its work. This branch was organized nearly four years ago, and the members have been holding weekly meetings and studying the lessons as outlined, besides doing other work, such as sewing to raise money to help people in the little branch in various ways as well as many outside friends who sometimes need help. They are at present planning a bazaar and social to be held in the near future to raise funds for the organization.
PALO ALTO RELIEF SOCIETY, CALIFORNIA MISSION
Nebo Stake. The annual Relief Society social recently given by the Nebo stake board members to the officers and teachers of the fifteen wards in the Nebo Stake, was in every way a success. The attendance of so many of the Relief Society teachers, who were special guests, was a pleasing feature. The program arranged was well carried out. A very instructive number, a play demonstrating the proper and improper manner of teaching, was given by members of the stake board, and was very much appreciated by those present. Refreshments were served to about three hundred and fifty guests by the board members, and the afternoon was considered very profitable and enjoyable by all those who attended.
Cache Stake. The Cache stake board recently entertained the officers and teachers of the eight wards in the stake, in a social held in the gymnasium of the Brigham Young College, Logan, Utah. There were about three hundred officers and teachers present. A very interesting program consisting of dramatic and other exercises from each ward, was enjoyed, after which the board, under the direction of the social committee, consisting of Mettina Lindquist, Lizzie B. Owen, and Linda N. Benson, served light refreshments to all present.
St. George Stake. As a result of an attendance contest between those over and under fifty years of age, the younger members of the East St. George ward Relief Society, who were the losers, entertained the older members at a social. The Relief Society hall was beautifully decorated for the occasion with white and green, cut flowers and potted plants. An extremely interesting program was rendered—the special feature being a short drama, written by Mrs. Grace Atkin Woodbury, which portrayed the fate of indifferent members who presented themselves at St. Peter's Gate, where they were judged. This caused much merriment. At the close of the program games were played and refreshments served.
In Memoriam—Granite Stake. Sister Mary Jane Laub Miller, wife of Arnold D. Miller, passed away at her home in September, 1923. Mrs. Miller was an active worker in the Relief Society, having served on the Fremont Stake Board for many years. Later moving to Oregon, she served on the Union stake Board from 1902 to 1904. On her return to Idaho she resumed her labors in the Fremont stake until it was divided, after which she served as first counselor in the Yellowstone stake board until she was called, with her husband, to labor in the Australian Mission in 1916. Since her return she has been an active worker in the Waterloo ward Relief Society, in Salt Lake City also a worker in the Salt Lake Temple up to her death. Mrs. Miller was born in Salt Lake City, November 29, 1856. Besides her husband she is survived by nine children, seven sons and two daughters, who were with her during her last illness.
Tintic Stake. A temple excursion was recently made from Tintic stake. Besides temple service equalling 109 days, $106 in cash was contributed for further work to be done.
Woodruff Stake. The Woodruff stake board has recently completed visits to every ward in the stake, numbering fifteen. The wards are fully organized, and in the scattered wards where the members live miles apart, everything possible is being done to carry out the instructions of the General Board. A beautiful spirit of humility and unity prevails throughout the organization. Conferences were held in all of the wards in 1923, which were very stimulating and helpful.
Millard Stake. The Meadow ward has been very successful in raising funds through entertainments. At a bazaar this ward succeeded in clearing $100. On another occasion a play was put on by the Relief Society from which $50 was realized. The bazaar was opened at 11 a. m. and continued on till midnight, during which time everybody was urged to come and spend the day and evening. Meals were served at all hours, and there was entertainment for both old and young. Every one in the ward was asked to donate one ready made article, and these were all sold to advantage. Aside from the funds which were raised, there was recreation and real fun for all who were in attendance.
Gunnison Stake. Although only a little over six months old, the Gunnison stake may well be proud of its present condition. Through the energy and activity of the stake and ward officers the work compares favorably with the work of much older stakes. During the fall and early winter conferences were held in all of the wards of the stake, all of which were attended by the stake officers.
Jordan Stake. At a union meeting in Jordan stake the stake supervisor of visiting teachers gave interesting reports of the teachers' work of the various wards. The following report of the Sandy Second ward furnished by the ward president, is typical of those which were given:
Number of L. D. S. Families in ward........129
Number of L. D. S. Families visited.........129
Number of districts in ward................11
Number of districts visited................11
Number of non-"Mormon" families visited....5
Number non-"Mormon" families in ward......13
Number of teachers in ward................22
Number of teachers using topics...........22
Liberty Stake. The dues in Liberty stake are collected by having the ward visiting teachers pass envelopes on their December visit with the instruction that the envelope with dues enclosed, be returned to the president or handed to the visiting teachers on their next call. Instructions printed on the envelopes are as follows:
This card is to remind you that your annual dues are now payable. Kindly enclose 50c and return to your president at your earliest convenience, or give to your visiting teacher on her next call.
Sign your name here ................................................................
Every enrolled member must be accounted for, therefore if you neglect this obligation some one must pay it for you.
The plan for the monthly union meeting in Liberty stake is: 1. Preliminary meeting at 1:30 for stake officers, at which there is prayer and discussion of plans and arrangements for meeting to follow. 2. Two o'clock. Union meeting. Community singing business; separation for department work into seven departments: Presidents; Secretaries; Class work: Theology; Literature; Social Service; Visiting Teachers and Homebound workers.
Deseret Stake. Work and Business Meeting: We print herewith some instructions sent out by the Deseret stake board to ward workers regarding the Work and Business meeting:
Method of Conducting: All members at work. President and secretary at side table to receive teachers' reports, which are called for district by district. Teachers should report even though they have not made visits. President should not receive reports before or after the meeting, or elsewhere during the week; she should make it understood that the report is to be given to the president at the meeting. Meetings should begin on time and close on time. If work is not finished volunteers may be asked for, to remain and finish work. Meetings should not be held after dismissing time in order to finish work.
Work Suggestions: All should be provided with work in the following varied ways: (a) Each member might bring her own individual work; (b) Each enrolled member might be given the opportunity to provide work for one entire meeting; if she herself has no work, it would be her duty to provide work from other busy mothers who need a helping hand; (c) Where charity work is done, it should be so worked in that no one but the president need know which work is for charity, and which is merely helpful "lifts." The spirit of helping one another should be encouraged. The following kinds of work are suggested: quilting, rug making, darning, button hole making, crocheting, tatting, knitting, all kinds of stitch work, preparation for bazaars, flower making for Decoration Day, gifts for Christmas, exchange of recipes. Exchange of patterns and ideas for children's clothing, making of swimming suits in summer for children, picking over small fruit preparatory for bottling, silk and wool flowers, millinery work, stenciling, remodeling. The following topics are suggested for informal discussion during the work meeting: Parties to be given by the Relief Society; all society business in which all have a part; fly time—methods of eradication; garden time; current events; celebrations—their purpose and best ways of celebrating; home evenings; jokes; home budget, household schedule of work, exchange of plans; school problems, health topics; music; picture shows, libraries, resorts.
Ward Entertainment Work: A committee is appointed in each ward upon general entertainment and enlistment. It is optional with each chairman to work out the plans best suited to her own society and ward. If thought advisable the chairman may be one of the ward presidency. It is the duty of this committee to act as an enlistment committee in connection with the teachers, (a) to learn how many eligible women there are in the ward not enrolled in the Relief Society, and to co-operate with the teachers in enlisting them as members; (b) to find how many belong to the Relief Society who are not active and encourage them to attend; (c) to discover newcomers in ward and invite them to meeting, also assist them in becoming acquainted socially in the ward. At regular Relief Society meetings this committee should see that every member is made welcome by being met at the door and shown a seat at the front; if member is not familiar with lessons, a book should be given her, and she should be invited to take part in the discussion, and made to feel that she is not a stranger. At special meetings and socials the entertainment committee should be present and make arrangements for taking wraps, seating people, introducing strangers and creating a general spirit of sociability.
Pocatello Stake The secretary of Pocatello stake writes: "We are taking up child welfare work. We have a number of country wards that do not have a school nurse, and two weeks ago we took Miss Ellen Lees, the Pocatello school nurse, out to Inkom where she examined about fifty children, thirty-five of whom needed a doctor's attention. She charged nothing for her service. Because of crop failures the doctors are offering to do the work at a very reasonable fee. We are expecting to take the nurse to two other settlements. The Anti-Tuberculosis nurse of the county has also consented to help and will do four wards for us. This will cover all the wards we have out of Pocatello. Everyone seems so anxious to help with this work that it is a real pleasure."
Oneida Stake In connection with the Idaho State Board of Health and the local physicians, the Franklin and Oneida stake Relief Societies assisted in carrying out the provisions of the Sheppard-Towner Act in conducting a health conference for the betterment of maternity and child welfare. At this conference 343 mothers and children registered were examined and given special instructions. This was the most successful health conference held in the state, up to that time, and a larger number than usual were registered and examined.
REORGANIZATIONS
Alberta Stake At the quarterly conference of the Alberta stake, held November 1, the Relief Society stake board was reorganized. Mrs. Annie D. Snow, who has moved to California, was honorably released, and Mrs. Jane W. Bates was appointed president. Mrs. Snow has served the Relief Society of this stake faithfully and efficiently, and under her leadership the Relief Society work has gone forward, progressing along all lines. In leaving the work she takes with her the love and confidence of the women of her stake and of the General Board as well. Mrs. Jane W. Bates, the new president, comes to the position with a wealth of experience in Relief Society and community work. She will be assisted by a corps of capable officers, who will work unitedly in the interest of the Alberta stake. Following is a list of the board members: Mrs. Mary E. Smith, first counselor; Mrs. Dora Jacobs, second counselor; Mrs. Lovina Low, secretary-treasurer; Mrs. Pearl Woolf assistant secretary-treasurer; Mrs. Luella Smith, chorister; Mrs. Alta Thompson, organist; Mrs. Talitha Carlson, Magazine representative; Mrs. M. A. Anderson, Rose Woolf, Nellie Pitcher, Annie A. Steed and Elizabeth Low, board members.
Ensign Stake Mrs. Elise B. Alder, for a number of years president of the Relief Societies of the Ensign stake, resigned her position a few months ago on account of illness, and has been honorably released. Mrs. Alder's illness was due to an accident which occurred last July, when the grand stand used at the Fourth of July celebration in Liberty Park collapsed, and her foot was crushed. Although greatly improved and on the rapid road to recovery, Mrs. Alder could not be induced by her co-workers to ask for a leave of absence with a view of taking up the work again as soon as she was able. The stake presidency and everybody concerned hoped that she would do this; but Mrs. Alder said over and over again, "The work is more important than I am, and it must not be handicapped. If I were only thinking of myself, I might ask for a leave of absence, but I am thinking of the work which my co-laborers and I have struggled so hard to establish, and it must not be held back by me." So while Mrs. Alder was remarkable in her active duty, she was even more remarkable in her decision that the Relief Society work is more important than any individual, and that it should not be held back nor handicapped by the action of any individual. Mrs. Alder has been a most successful leader in her stake, and she has faithfully and loyally supported the General Board in all its plans and programs. She led well, and she followed well. She leaves her stake in excellent condition, and retired with the love of every stake and ward worker, and with the love and appreciation of the General Board.
At the Ensign stake conference held November 19, 1923, Mrs. Irene Merrill Richards, wife of Elder Stephen L. Richards, was appointed to succeed Mrs. Alder. The officers chosen to assist Mrs. Richards are as follows: Counselors, Mrs. Nora Cannon Stewart and Mrs. Pearl Udall Nelson; secretary-treasurer, Mrs. Margaret Pickering; and the following board members: Mrs. Stella Paul Bradford, Mrs. Mona Wilcox Cannon, Mrs. Florence Farnsworth Richards, Mrs. Lucile Badger Taylor, and Mrs. Martha Howell Cannon.
WORK OF THE ADULT BLIND
The General Board of Relief Society is interested in the efforts which are being made by the Utah State Commission for the Adult Blind to give vocational education to the adult blind of this state, who have not had previous training. A workshop has been established in Salt Lake City where such persons may be trained in various kinds of handiwork, with a view of helping these handicapped individuals to be independent and self-supporting. Those who are trained at the shop say that what they want is not charity but an opportunity to work and become self-sustaining.
Mr. Hugh G. Reichert, the sales agent, who is himself blind, says there are about three hundred blind people in the State of Utah, and about one hundred of these are dependent on relatives, friends, or the county for support and it is the desire of the workshop to increase its capacity in order to give training to a larger number than can at present be accommodated. In order to increase the capacity of the shop, an effort is being made to interest people in the rugs which are being made there, and are for sale, with the hope that the demand will increase to such an extent that the shop may be enlarged and many more may become trained and be given employment.
About fourteen different patterns of rugs are woven at the blind shop—patterns which it is said cannot be duplicated here. Rugs are woven from new materials, or from materials furnished by customers. Workers at the shop also cut carpet rags and sew them for about 18c or 20c a pound. The shop would welcome contributions of carpet rags or cloth from which to cut them. The shop is planning to display its rugs in the various communities, with a view of creating a market for them, it is also distributing cards giving further details. Following is a copy of the card:
PATRONIZE THE BLIND LET YOUR RAGS MAKE YOUR RUGS New Rugs Made of New Rags Only Hand Woven, Big Diamond, Checkerboard and Other Beautiful Patterns. Couch Covers, Silk Portieres, Table Runners. First Class Work—Everything Guaranteed. Mail or Bring Your Old Rags or Stockings to 120 East First South, Salt Lake City, Utah All Kinds of Weaving Done—Highest Quality—Lowest Prices. Hugo G. Reichert, Sales Agent 2256 Lake Street. Phone Hy. 2104-J (Call Mornings)
Presidents' Memorial Fund
Several of our stakes are late in sending in their memorial fund. The time set for collecting this fund was the year 1923, and it was expected that the fund would all be in by December, 1923. The fund consists of 5c from each enrolled member. Those who wish to contribute more may do so. The Presidents' Memorial Fund is being collected for the purpose of establishing memorials in honor of the past general presidents of the Relief Society. The object of the memorials is two-fold: first, that of honoring the presidents; and secondly, that of doing good to others.
The Gospel to the Lamanites
The following letter was written by Mrs. Lucy Wright Snow to an Indian princess, who visited Royal Oak high school in Michigan, one day last spring. We feel sure our readers will be interested in the letter. We are especially glad to be able to publish it this year, as this is a Book of Mormon year, because of the recent centenary of the appearance of the Angel Moroni to the Prophet Joseph Smith.
Dear Princess Neawanna:—
I was indeed disappointed that you were so suddenly called to Grand Rapids on the eve of your coming to our home. I had invited a party of Royal Oak's best educators to be present to hear you speak on the subject most dear to your heart—"The American Indian"—but my faith is that you will return to Detroit and that we shall have another opportunity to speak of the record of your people which I possess.
I take delight in confirming your testimony that you are not of the lost tribes by the following quotation from the record: "For behold, I shall speak unto the Jews and they shall write it; [the Bible which contains the record of the Jews] and I shall also speak unto the Nephites and they shall write it; [the Nephite record contains the record of your people] and I shall speak unto the other tribes of the house of Israel which I have led away, and they shall write it; and I shall also speak unto all nations of the earth and they shall write it."
I will also quote from the record concerning your lineage as follows: "Wherefore, for this cause hath the Lord God promised unto me [Nephi] that these things which I write shall be kept and preserved, and handed down unto thy seed, from generation to generation that the promise may be fulfilled unto Joseph, that his seed should never perish so long as the earth should stand." (This Joseph was none other than he who was sold into Egypt, and we are of his seed.)
Your people were given a promise that they should never become extinct as follows: "Nevertheless thou beholdest that the Gentiles [the United States] who have gone forth out of captivity, and have been lifted up by the power of God above all other nations upon the face of the land which is choice above all other lands, which is the land that the Lord God hath covenanted with thy father, that his seed should have the land of their inheritance, wherefore thou seest that the Lord God will not suffer that the Gentiles will utterly destroy the mixture of thy seed which are among thy brethren, neither will he suffer that the Gentiles shall destroy the seed of thy brethren." (The Indians.)
Dear Princess, I am pleased that our acquaintance was made possible by your coming to the Royal Oak's high school and that my daughter felt impelled to make an appointment for us and that you also were inspired with a desire to meet me, and when you told me that you were doing the educational work you are engaged in simply because you felt impelled and inspired to do it I felt sure that the truths which I have written should be in your possession, and they will indeed enhance your scope of vision in your chosen work, in behalf of your people, and because you have expressed a desire to see the record, I invite you to come to me if possible and I will give it to you myself, or if this is impossible, let me know and I shall send it to you. Meanwhile, be encouraged in your work, pray to the Great Spirit you know, who is the Lord God, for further enlightenment and he will bless you for your faith and effort.
Guide Lessons for April
LESSON I Theology Lesson (First Week in April)
THE PARABLES OF THE SAVIOR
A. The Tares.
The Text: "The kingdom of heaven is likened unto a man which sowed good seed in his field: but while men slept, his enemy came and sowed tares among the wheat, and went his way. But when the blade was sprung up, and brought forth fruit, then appeared the tares also. So the servants of the householder came and said unto him, Sir, didst not thou sow good seed in thy field? From whence then hath it tares? He said unto them, An enemy hath done this. The servants said unto him, Wilt thou then that we go and gather them up? But he said Nay; lest while ye gather up the tares, ye root up also the wheat with them. Let both grow together until the harvest; and in the time of harvest I will say to the reapers, Gather ye together first the tares, and bind them in bundles to burn them: but gather the wheat into my barn." (Matthew 13:24-30.)
The Explanation: Again, as with the other parables of the Savior, even the disciples were not sure as to the meaning of the tares, so they sought information from the author, whose explanation is recorded in Matthew 13:37-43.
Some Great Lessons Taught: (a) That through the lack of wide-awakeness in good men who should guard against the introduction of evil, the servants of satan get a foothold in the kingdom. (b) That the untimely expulsion of evil-doers may do more damage than good, because of the social and other ties which interlace their lives with the lives of the good. (c) That there will come a day when conditions will be ripe for a safe and effectual elimination of the evil-doer, and the salvation of the righteous: the former bound together for destruction, the angels of consistency and justice fastening them together with bands of selfishness and sin and casting them into the flames of a conscience that burns as long as there is a recognized end to feed it.
Special Application: I am the Tare as far as I share The fruits of satan's temptation; I am the Wheat as fast as I meet Requirements for Jesus' salvation.
I must not sleep, but watch must keep, Lest the enemy sow in my heart The doubt and the sin that canker within, And leave me from heaven apart.
I must forbear to judge when and where Vengeance shall fall on the earth; Just cling to the rod, Leave the issue with God, Who'll save according to worth.
B. The Mustard Seed.
The Text: "The kingdom of heaven is like to a grain of mustard seed, which a man took, and sowed in his field: which indeed is the least of all seeds: but when it is grown, it is the greatest among herbs, and becometh a tree, so that the birds of the air come and lodge in the branches thereof." (Matt. 13:31-32; Mark 4:30-32; Luke 13:18-19.)
The Purposes: This parable had at least three objectives: First, to correct the idea prevalent among the Jews that the kingdom was to come to them as a sudden manifestation of superhuman deliverance and exaltation to power. Second, to teach that the kingdom of heaven on earth is a growth from a Divine planting. Third, to proclaim that the Christ-life with small and derided beginning would become the triumphant life.
Why He chose the mustard plant for a center of interest: "We are all familiar with the mustard-plant of our own country. It is not the smallest, nor indeed the largest, of our herbs or shrubs; still, its proportions are comparatively diminutive; it is nothing like a
tree. The Savior here is referring his hearers, - not to the plant with which we are acquainted, but to the khordal, or Salvadora persica—the same as the khayal found in the Himalayas. This, though small in germ, does grow into a tree in which birds do nestle. And its seeds resemble those of our mustard in taste. It is noticed by travelers as growing abundantly on the shores of that very lake from which Jesus was teaching. And its seed is used in the Talmud as an image of extreme littleness; small as a mustard-seed' was a common saying. And yet the tree was noted as large. "There was a stalk of mustard in Sichem (writes one) -whence sprang three branches, one of which was large enough to cover the shed of a potter.' 'There was a stem of mustard (writes another) in my field, into which I used to climb, as men climb into a fig tree.' 'I have seen it,' says Dr. Thomson, 'on the rich plain of Akkar as tall as the horse and his rider.' " 4. The Application: (a) Historical: The little babe in the manger, a stpposed carpenter's son, now the greatest character of the world's history. Shortest of religious laws, "Love the GUIDE LESSONS FOR APRIL - 99 Lord," and the briefest of all codes of ethics, "Love thy neighbor," each is growing to over-shadow all other laws and codes. (b) The little impulse of helpfulness grows into the great heartthrob of benevolence; the little act of self-sacrifice becomes a leading life-habit that lifts us up and holds us in the line of heroes and heroines. The simple faith of childhood grows into a spiritual life that makes for us a place in the presence of God. QUESTIONS AND PROBLEMS 1. Give the Savior's own interpretation of the parable of the tares. 2. Who are the persons referred to by the word "men" in Matthew 13:25? 3. Show how this parable teaches patience and forbearance. 4. When people unite in organizations for purposes out of harmony with the teachings of Christ, what part of the parable are they illustrating? 5. To what extent is each one of us a "tare"? 6. What are the evidences of one's being the "wheat" spoken of in the parable? 7. Show how this parable teaches the unescapableness of the final judgment. 8, State three evident purposes of this parable. 9. Show the fitness of the mustard-plant as an object of | illustration in this parable. 10. Give historical application of the idea of growth from - small to great things under divine care. 11. Wherein is the religious law and the ethical code of the Savior like the mustard-plant that became the greatest of all "herbs"? 12. Correlate the parable of the mustard-seed with the hymn beginning, "Jesus, once of humble birth." 13. Wherein is the faith of childhood like the mustard-seed? How may it become the greatest source of joy and the greatest factor of happiness through earth-life and at. Its end? LESSON II Work and Business (Second Week in April) 100 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE LESSON II Literature (Third Week in April) James RussELL LOWELL James Russell Lowell holds a position of high honor among the poets of his period. He came of one of those old New England families, who, like the Adamses, have never failed to produce men of marked ability. The present President of Harvard University, President A. Lawrence Lowell, is of that family; also, Amy Lowell, who is one of the chief exponents of the new poetry in America at the present time. Among his ancestors were many prominent persons: clergymen and judges and men of marked public spirit. His father was a minister in a church in Boston and was noted for the integrity of his character and the energy he put forth. Lowell, like Longfellow, was born and nurtured in an environment of culture. He was surrounded with a good library and had the classical training that Harvard University then afforded. He was graduated from Harvard University in 1838. Lowell made his advent at a very important period of time. The conscience and the intellect of New England had been aroused by the leadership, first, of William Lloyd -Garrison. And, secondly, of Ralph Waldo Emerson, Garrison had established a paper called The Liberator, whose purpose was so to stir the conscience of the North that it would demand the abolition of slavery in the United States. By the publication of his essay on Nature, Emerson had roused the New England intellect to a new sense of freedom and an appreciation of the beautiful in nature. Lowell responded readily to his spiritual and intellectual environment. He was dreamy and poetic and loved nature in the same ardent manner as did some of the English poets of this period. But while he loved to portray the beauties of nature as did Wordsworth in England, in one thing he differed greatly from him: Wordsworth, through most of his life, was not interested in social reform, while Lowell was very greatly interested in such reform. Lowell, like Whittier, became a poetic trumpeter of the Abolition Period. But, while Lowell responded quickly to the new life about him, he, like the others of his group, _ inherited the Puritan tendencies and reflected them in his writings. He did not object to poetry that taught an ethical lesson, and admits in his own criticism of himself that he probably had not learned the distinction between singing and preaching. We have in this presentation set forth three characteristics that are very prominent in the writings of Mr. Lowell. First, the GUIDE LESSONS FOR APRIL 101 was a Puritan of the Puritans, inheriting the traditions of his New England forefathers, and reflecting their love for morals and moral teaching; secondly, he responded very quickly to the beauty in nature; and, thirdly, he was part and portion of that spirit that was with great zeal seeking to free the slaves of America. A good illustration of a poem that sets forth the first two characteristics, that of a love for the ethical in life and for loveliness in nature, is The Vision of Sir Launfal. We desire that the class leader shall study the poem and present it to the class as she sees fit. We shall include the descriptions of Spring and. Winter as examples of Lowell's ability to portray nature, and two other stanzas from the poem illustrating his ability to portray and teach a moral lesson through the medium of poetry: The Vision of Sir Launfal "And what is so rare as a day in June? Then, if ever, come perfect days; Then Heaven tries earth if it be in tune, And over it softly her warm ear lays; Whether we look. Or whether we listen, We hear life murmur, or see it glisten; Every clod feels a stir of might, An instinct wi hin it that reaches and towers, And, groping blindly above it for light, Climbs to a soul in grass and flowers; The flush of life may.. Well be seen Thrilling back over hills and valleys; The cowslip startles in meadows green, The buttercup catches the sun in its chalice, And there's never a leaf nor a blade too mean _ To be some happy creature's palace;. The little bird sits at his door in the sun, Atilt like a blossom among the leaves, And lets his illumined being o'errun With the deluge of summer it receives; His mate feels the eggs beneath her wings, And the heart in her dumb breast flutters and sings; He sings to the wide world, and she to her nest,— In the nice ear of Nature which song is. The best?" In contrast to the above description of spring, is the portrayal of winter given below: "Down swept the chill wind from the mountain peak, From the snow five thousand summers old; On open wold and hill-top bleak It gathered all the cold. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE And whirled it like sleet on the wanderer's cheek; It carried a shiver everywhere From the unleafed boughs and pastures bare; The little brook heard it and built a roof 'Neath which he could house him, winter-proof; All night by the white stars' frosty gleams He groined his arches and matched his beams; Slender and clear were his crystal spars As the lashes of light that trim the stars; He sculptured every summer delight In his halls and chambers out of sight; Sometimes his tinkling waters slipt Down through a frost-leaved forest-crypt, Long, sparkling aisles of steel-stemmed trees Bending to counterfeit a breeze; Sometimes the roof no fretwork knew But silvery mosses that downward grew; Sometimes it was carved in sharp relief With quaint arabesques of ice-fern leaf; Sometimes it was simply smooth and clear For the gladness of heaven to shine through, and here He had caught the nodding bulrush-tops And hung them thickly with diamond drops, That crystalled the beams of moon and sun, And made a star of every one. No mortal builder's most rare device Could match this winter-palace of ice; Twas as if every image that mirrored lay In his depths serene through the summer day, Each fleeting shadow of earth and sky, Lest the happy model should be lost, Had been mimicked in fairy masonry By the elfin builders of the frost." The two stanzas below illustrate Lowell's ability to point a moral lesson: "As Sir Launfal made morn through the darksome gate, He was 'ware of a leper, crouched by the same, Who begged with his hand and moaned as he sate; And a loathing over Sir Launfal came; The sunshine went out of his soul with a thrill, The flesh 'neath his armor 'gan shrink and crawl. 'And midway its leap his heart stood still Like a frozen waterfall; For this man, so foul and bent of stature, Rasped harshly against his dainty nature, And seemed the one blot on the summer morn,— So he tossed him a piece of gold in scorn, GUIDE LESSONS FOR APRIL 103 "'The leper raised not the gold from the dust: Better-to me the poor man's crust, Better the blessing of the poor, Though I turn me empty from his door; That is no true alms which the hand can hold; He gives 'nothing but worthless gold Who gives from a sense of duty; But he who gives but a slender mite, And gives to that which is out of sight, That thread of the all-sustaining Beauty Which runs through all and doth all unite,— The hand cannot clasp the whole of his alms, The heart outstretches its eager palms, For a god goes with it and makes it store To the soul that was starving in darkness before." The best example of Lowell's abolition poetry is perhaps found in his The Present Crisis: 'When a deed is done for Freedom, through the broad earth's aching breast Runs a thrill of joy prophetic, trembling on from east to west, And the slave, where'er he cowers, feels the soul within him climb To the awful verge of manhood, as the energy sublime Of a century bursts full-blossomed on the thorny stem of Time. "Once to every man and nation comes the moment to decide, In the strife of Truth with Falsehood, for the good or evil side; Some great cause, God's new Messiah, offering each the bloom or blight, Parts the goats upon the left hand, and the sheep upon the right, And the choice goes by forever 'twixt that darkness and that light. "Hast thou chosen, O my people, on. Whose party thou shalt stand, Ere the Doom from its worn sandals shakes the dust against our land? Though the cause of Evil prosper, yet 'tis Truth alone is strong, And, albeit she wander outcast now, I see around her throng Troops of beautiful, tall angels, to enshield her from all wrong. "Careless seems the great Avenger; history's pages but record One death-grapple in the darkness 'twixt old systems and the Word; Truth forever on the scaffold, Wrong forever on the throne,— Yet that scaffold sways the future, and, behind the dim unknown, Standeth God within the shadow, keeping watch above his own." 104 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Inasmuch as February marks the anniversary of the birth of Abraham Lincoln, we are including a stanza from Lowell's Commemoration Ode, of July 21, 1865. This is one of the first and best poetic tributes to Lincoln after his martyrdom. "Such was he, our Martyr-Chief, Whom late the Nation he had led, With ashes on her head, Wept with the passion of an angry grief: Forgive me, if from present things I turn To speak what in my heart will beat and burn, And hang my wreath on his world-honored urn, Nature, they say, doth dote, And cannot make a man Save on some worn-out plan, Repeating us by rote: For him her Old-World moulds aside she threw, And choosing sweet clay from the breast Of the unexhausted West, With stuff untainted shaped a hero new, Wise, steadfast in the strength of God, and true. How beautiful to. See Once more a shepherd of mankind indeed, Who loved his charge, but never loved to lead; One whose meek flock the people joyed to be, Not lured by any cheat of birth, But by his clear-grained human worth, And brave old wisdom of sincerity! They knew that outward grace is dust; They could not choose but trust In that sure-footed mind's unfaltering skill, And supple-tempered will That bend like perfect steel to spring again and thrust. His was no lonely mountain-peak of mind, Thrusting to thin air o'er our-cloudy bars, A sea-mark now, now lost in vapors blind; Broad prairie rather, genial. Level-lined, Fruitful and friendly for all human kind, Yet also nigh to heaven and loved of loftiest stars. Nothing of Europe here, Or, then, of Europe fronting mornward still, Ere any names of Serf and Peer Could Nature's equal scheme deface And thwart her genial will; Here was a type of the true elder race, And one of Plutarch's men talked with us face to face. GUIDE LESSONS FOR APRIL ~ 108 I praise him not; it were too late; And some innovative weakness there must be In him who condescends to victory Such as the Present gives, and cannot wait, 'Safe in himself as in a fate. So always firmly he: He knew to bide his time, And can his fame abide, Still patient in his simple faith sublime, _Till the wise years decide. Great captains, with their guns and drums, Disturb our judgment for the hour, But at last silence comes; These all are gone, and, standing like a tower, Our children shall behold his fame. The kindly-earnest, brave, foreseeing man, Sagacious, patient, dreading praise, not blame, New birth of our new soil, the first American. QUESTIONS AND PROBLEMS 1.. Give the names of some persons in the famous Adams family of New England, prominent in American history, and, if you are able, prominent as writers. 2. At this point the class teacher should present in her own 3. Do you agree or disagree with what Lowell says in relation to alms-giving? 4. Select some details from the poet's description of spring and winter that serve to bring the picture to your mind. 5: Do you think a painter could take his description of winter and convert it into a real winter scene? 6. What historical truth did Lowell hold in mind; when he wrote: "Truth forever on the scaffold, wrong forever on the throne,— Yet that scaffold sways the future, and, behind the dim unknown, Standeth God within the shadow, keeping watch above his own." 7. If Lowell were alive today, what social reforms that we are now interested in would you expect him to be interested in? Way the Vision of Sir Launfal.  106  RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE LESSON IV Social Service (Fourth Week in April). Pene STANDARD OF LIVING—THE INDIVIDUAL TREATMENT Of SOCIAL PROBLEMS The efforts of society to bring about a better distribution of wealth and material comforts, and to provide more universal opportunities for education and development have been projected in many forms. Various plans and programs have been advanced to better social conditions, to raise standards of living, and to provide more general opportunities for development. In promoting health and providing facilities for medical care, in improving working conditions, in attempting to prevent delinquency and crime, a community expresses its concern for the well being of the entire group and a desire to extend certain advantages to all of its members. The activities to better social conditions may be classified according to the nature and content of the problem, such as, disease, poverty, crime, child labor, or educational provisions. Another classification of social work may be made according to the process. One process is dealing with institutions, legislation, and education, and endeavors to bring about a general or group improvement. The other method is working with individuals or families to assist them to make a better adjustment or attain a more complete development. The previous discussion pointed out various general programs designed to effect group improvement. The establishment of health centers, the control of child labor, the enactment of school laws, the improvement of industrial conditions, and countless other efforts all have their effect on the standards and development "of the whole group. But even though industrial conditions are improved, and health opportunities are provided, and satisfactory social legislation is enacted, a satisfactory adjustment for each individual cannot be expected. There still remains the problem of fitting man to his environment, of helping him'to adjust in the best possible manner to the problem of living. The process of adjusting to environment, of developing in a normal satisfactory manner, is a serious and difficult one even under favorable conditions. To persons who have many adversities, special difficulties, heavy burdens, or serious handicaps, the process of natural adjustment is made extremely difficult. Unless intelligent, understanding assistance is offered to the overburdened at the right time, the process of development is often seriously interfered with. There will always be a need for both GUIDE LESSONS FOR APRIL 107 processes—working with groups and with individuals. In any program, whether dealing with poverty, or delinquency, or labor, or health, the two processes are needed, one used to supplement the other. In every community that has a desire to help the distressed, there is need then, for community effort to improve institutions, to enact desirable legislation, to better industrial conditions, and provide health, educational, and recreational opportunities. There is also need of organized effort which seeks to recognize individual socia! Problems, to comprehend their significance and to administer the kind of assistance and treatment needed. This individual treatment, this work with persons who cannot meet alone the difficulties of living, forms an important part of a modern social welfare program. The attitude toward people who are not entirely successful socially, is changing. The family, whose income is not adequate 'to care for all its needs, or the boy who has been a truant or committed some juvenile offense is not regarded, at this time, as a failure to be pitied. The attitude of society now is to recognize such situations as evidences of society's own failure to understand and meet human needs. Social workers attempt to interpret these situations, to discover what misfortunes and handicaps have brought distress to these individuals and then to remove as far as possible the handicaps. At the same time, an effort is made to discover the possibi. Ities and potentialities of the individuals and to provide opportunities for their development. The attitude of society toward women and children who have been deprived of a father's support, by death or illness, illustrates the present conception of society's responsibility to its unfortunate members. In the past there was a greater tendency, in the event of the death of the breadwinner of the family, to place the children in an institution or orphanage and break up the home entirety. Or perhaps the mother was allowed to leave her family of small growing children and was permitted to take employment. Children were taken from school so that they could add their - small earnings to the scanty family income. Little attention was paid to the care, nourishment, health or education of the family. The problem of widowhood or of the incapacity of the breadwinner is now met not only in terms of finances or relief. The emphasis is placed in the human elements involved; on the value of home life, on the need of giving children a mother's care, on the economy and training children for future usefulness, and on the wisdom of safeguarding a family's health. To provide such a comprehensive plan of treatment for individuals and families who have been handicapped and burdened and distressed requires some community organization. The state, private societies and churches have long felt a responsibility to 108 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE.. Care for the unfortunate by providing institutions or by giving relief. These organizations are becoming increasingly conscious of the importance of the task of dealing with social problems. They are recognizing, more and more, that the guiding of human lives, the treatment of individuals in distress, is a serious undertaking, deserving of study, of understanding, and of intelligent cooperative effort. Reference: Dr. Edward T. Devine, Normal Life, pages 160-165. QUESTIONS AND PROBLEMS 1. What is meant by group improvement programs? Give examples. 2. Why cannot all social problems be solved by programs of group improvement? What else is needed? 3. Does the establishment of a health center give assurance that all who could be benefited by the center are receiving its benefits? What service is needed to extend its benefits?. 4. Discuss school and child labor legislation as group improvement and relate their administration to individual treatment. 5. What are the functions of a probation officer of the juvenile court? 6. Why has the emphasis in dealing with families whose income is not adequate been changed from mere relief to continued, understanding service? TEACHERS' TOPIC FOR APRIL THE GOSPEL IN THE HOME The Restoration "And I saw another angel fly in the midst of heaven, having the everlasting gospel to preach unto them that dwell on the earth, and to every nation, and kindred, and tongue, and people."— Revelations 14:6, "But in the last days it shall come to pass, that the mountain of the house of the Lord shall be established in the top of the mountains, and it shall be exalted above the hills; and people shall flow unto it.'—Micah 4:1. A. The Church organized at Fayette, Seneca county, New York, April 6, 1830, with six members. B. Note the marvelous and steady growth of the Church throughout the years as a fulfilment of promise and prophecy. C. Discuss the significance of Easter, symbolizing the resurrection, and the organization of the Church in April—the springtime of the year and the renewal of all things beautiful. Helps for Literature Lessons Several requests have come for lists of books that might assist in the literature work and help to build a library, either in the community or in the home. The standard History of American Literature is the Cambridge, History of American Literature, published by Putnam and issued in several volumes. This series of books contains more select material on American literature than is found in any other set. It is scholarly, however, and may not suit the general needs. We suggest two books that are very good from the standpoint of the selections they contain. First, "Three Centuries of American Literature," and, secondly, "Chief American Poets." In order to furnish books that contain brief biographical sketches of the authors and some critical comments, we suggest a list of manuals of American literature as follows: 'American Literature," by Long; "American Literature,' Bronson; "History of American Literature," Cairns; "Introduction to American Literature," Pancoast; "American Literature,' Halleck, and "American Literature,' Katherine Lee Bates. If you have public or school libraries that are fairly well equipped, you will find all or many of these books in the stacks. If you wish to purchase any of these books you may do so by writing to A. C. McClurg & Company, Chicago. If you wish a satisfactory and complete edition of the poets we have studied, for public or private libraries, we would suggest that you purchase the Cambridge edition of the poets, to be had in separate volumes. Compare the Pages of Che Deseret News: with those of any other paper. Notice that while the paper is clean and fit for any child to read it is also interesting and informative in the highest sense—And you get "TODAY'S NEWS TODAY". Individual Sacrament Sets Now in Stock BEST IN THE MARKET WILL LAST A LIFE TIME 36 GLASSES IN EACH TRAY RECOMMENDED BY PATRONS. REFERENCES FURNISHED Made especially for L. D. S. Churches, and successfully used in Utah and _Intermountain region, also in all Missions in the United States, Europe, and Pacific: SIMPLE, SANITARY, DURABLE Satisfaction guaranteed. Inquiries cheerfully answered THE LATEST ACKNOWLEDGEMENT 7  Bishop's Office, Bern, Idaho, May 2, 1921. "I am in receipt of the Individual Sacrament Set, consisting of four trays and the proper number of glasses. —"fiverything arrived in good condition. We are very pleased with it. I take this occasion to thank you for your kindness." BUREAU OF INFORMATION Temple Block Salt Lake City Islands. Basic metal, Nickel Silver, heavily plated with Solid Silver. Glazier and Taylor HOSIERY COMPANY 33 EAST BROADWAY A Store Dealing in Quality Hosiery and Underwear Exclusively Heavy Silk Full-Fashioned, all colors A wonderful hose for wear Per Pair.: $2.00 Box of Three Pairs 5.75 Silk Semi-Fashioned, all colors, beautiful and durable Per Pair $1.50 Box of Three Pair. $4.25 Silk with Extra Stretch Elastic Top, the Comfort Stocking $1.65 per Pair Box of three pairs $4.75 All Colors Per Pair $1.05 Box of Three Pairs: $3.00 MAIL ORDERS PREPAID CENTURY PRINTING CO. 231-35 Edison Street, Salt Lake City, Utah. Catalogs, Color-Work, Programs, Publications, Commercial forms. NS. Fr THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE desires to obtain the following numbers of the magazine for 1923: 23 February number 7 August number 26 March = 6 September  3 May - 4 October " Please notify this office how many you can furnish of each before sending them in.. We pay 20c per copy. Service is Our Motto. Ure Silk, Semi-Fashioned, very durable Our Phone, Was. 1801. To Our Magazine Subscribers We call your attention to the very high class firms who advertise in the Magazine, and ask, whenever possible, to give them your loyal support and patronage. Also kindly mention having read their advertisement in the Magazine. We hope by your assistance to prove our value as a medium through which to advertise. Magazine Management. It’s Always Open Season for Pumpkin Pie! And it’s easily made with Pierces Pumpkin A Holiday Treat All cooked, ready for use in your favorite recipe—it makes the most appetizing pie imaginable, Everlastingly backed by THE UTAH CANNING CO., Ogden. Since 1888 To the Agents and Friends of the Magazine who are Taking Subscriptions: It was unanimously decided at the October Conference by the officers and members present rather than raise the price of the magazine, we would ask the agents and friends for the present to "secure subscriptions without the customary 10 per cent discount. We call your attention to the fact that many of the subscriptions received so far have had the percentage deducted, which is not in accordance with the general understanding of the Magazine management and officers present at the conference. Will you kindly give this matter your attention and give these facts as wide publicity as possible in order that the subscriptions which we receive hereafter, will be accompanied with the full amount of the price of the magazine, which is $1.00. Sincerely, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. BLUE PINE — Strength and Purity Fine cooking and fine flavoring are inseparable. Flavoring is the one deft touch that gives you pastries and desserts at their best. EXTRACTS For results to be really enthusiastic over, use BLUE PINE Lemon and Vanilla extracts. Purity, strength and abundance of flavor are the qualities so noticeable to the taste. Try them— you’ll always buy them. ASK YOUR GROCER John Scowcroft & Sons Co. Relief Society Women—ask your grocer for Blue Pine Products RELIEF SOCIETY' LAGAZINE VOL. XI MARCH, 1924 MO. 3 CONTENTS Minnie Iverson Heeapp 109 110 Lucy Wright Snow 111 Dr. C. H. Levermore The Lord is: my Shepherd Hattie Critchlow Jensen 113 Champions of Woman Suffrage The Relief Society, the First Woman's Organization Alice Louise Reynolds 115 The B. Y. U. Leadership Nursery Laura Gardner 118 Editorial—The Relief Society Birthday.......... 120 Mrs. Woodrow Wilson A Christian Revival in America, Harrison R. Merrill 124 A Daughter of the Southern Seas:.. Annie D. Palmer 126 Stories Show Human Side of Woodrow Wilson 'Notes from the Field Amy Brown Lyman 145 Guide Lessons for May = 151 Organ of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints Room 20 Bishop's Bldg. Salt Lake City, Utah $1.00 a Year—Single Copy, 10c Canada and Foreign, $1.25 a Year—15c Single Copy Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah AI The management of the Relief Society Magazine requests, that whenever possible, remit by Post — Office order in payment for subscriptions. Salt Lake City, Dec. 26, 1923 The management of the Relief Society Magazine urges an early settlement of all outstanding accounts. Temple and Burial Clothes Complete Suits For Men and Women Variety of Grades and Prices Prompt and Careful Attention to Mail—Telephone—Telegraph Orders Open Daily, 9 a. M.—5 p. M. General Board Relief Society 23 Bishop's Building Salt Lake City, Utah Phone Wasatch 3286 Make A Health Garden A vegetable garden is a vitally important factor to the health of the entire family. Science has discovered those necessary vitamines are found chiefly in vegetables. "Our Seed and Nursery Guide Book will help you in planning both the Vegetable and Flower Garden. Write for Free Copy Today Porter-Walton Company SALT LAKE CITY When writing for copy mention Relief Society Magazine Quality First with W. M. McCONAHAY THE JEWELER 64 So. Main Phone Was. 1821 Salt Lake City, Utah When Shopping Mention Relief Society Magazine This is Your Privilege To Visit the Adult Work Shop for the Blind, 120 East 1st South, Old City Hall, and see the blind adults in action making carpets, rugs, couch covers, pillow tops, clothes bags, and many other useful articles. By buying their products, we are making it possible for the Blind to support themselves, thus bringing happiness and contentment into their lives. It is the duty of those who can see, to make it possible for these ambitious and industrious people to live and be happy. A visit to the shop will convince you that you can be of great assistance to them by creating a market for the things they produce. Phone Hy. 1658-R. From 8 a. M. To 12 m. IMPROVED L. D. S. GARMENTS The "Temple Brand" garments are handled only by leading dealers, if you cannot get just what you want select it from this list and send order direct to us. We prepay postage to all parts of the United States. Samples submitted on request.
GARMENTS WITH STRINGS Style. Price Style Price
 No. 75 Med. Heavy Cotton. $2.50
No. 15 Extra Spe. Flat Weave 1.50 
No 3 Domestic Lisle 1.75 
No. 25 Double Back Lt. Wt. 1.85 
NEW STYLE WITH BUTTONS AND LONG OR SHORT SLEEVES
For Ladies: Style  Price:
No. 1 Flat Weave Cot..$.95. 
Super No. 2 Ribbed super cot 1.25: 
No, 815 Flat weave...................1.50 
No. 803 Ribbed Lt. Wte........... 1.65 
No. 850 Lisle Gause................ 2.50.
No. 862 Mere. Gause Lt. Wt... 2.75.
 For Men: Style: Price 
No. 903 Ribbed Lt. Wt.............$1.75 
No. 950 Lisle Lt. Wt................... 2.75 
No. 915 Flat Weave................ 1.75 
No. 925 Ribbed Med. Wt....... 2.00 
No. 975 Med. Heavy Cot......... 2.25 
No. 9175 Med. Half Wool...... 3.50 
SAME AGENT'S COMMISSION—BUY DIRECT FROM FACTORY
Salt Lake Knitting Store 70 Main Street, Salt Lake City, Utah
In sending orders mention Magazine
Ask your dealer for Z. C. M. I. Factory Made
Kiddies' Allovers DUTCH CUT
They are the famous Mountaineer Brand in dark blue, light blue, striped and khaki
Mothers—they are just what you need for the little tots—and the kiddies like them too
SPRING By Minnie Iverson Hodapp
Glorious woman! Realms of light Circle round thee pure and bright; Thou art-swayed, withdrawn, with high resolve. Not from thy absolute; and freedom equal, good Crown thy lovely sisterhood!
Fairest woman, rise to see Thy diviner destiny; Regnant queen, adorn thy place, Glorious Mother-of-our-race!
My Dreams By Lucy Wright Snow, of Royal Oak Michigan (These Stanzas Received Honorable Mention in the Eliza Roxey Snow Prize Memorial Contest)
That I may be to him Thou gavest me A loving helpmate and companion here; A woman good who doth efficiently Act well the part of wife to one so dear, Make me strong of body, wise of mind, Prudent in all things subject to thy call; Through him who called me wife, Lord, may I find A heavenly title, earned e'en through Eve's fall.
Would I might earn the favored title queen, And fill complete my mission here below. Lord, let me be a mother; thou hast seen Me often bowed in supplication low Seeking the power of worthiness from thee, Asking thy will concerning humble me.
Oh grant me, Lord, I pray, in all its glory, The title mother, best bestowed by thee. Yet it is not enough to have earned this, E'en more doth my ambitious soul desire; I must achieve to claim the title friend Ere I can gain perfection's flaming fire.
I shall, dear Lord, have done it unto these Thy children—loved them, lent my helping hand, Made full my sacrifice, given thee the praise; Then I shall know, dear Lord, thou'lt call me friend.
Oh, may the conduct of my life be such That I might justly claim these gifts from thee, For thou hast said thou'rt bound bestowing much On all who to thy word obedient be.
Give me then, patience, wisdom, faith and love, Yet, more than all, a wealth of sympathy To bless mankind and make me worthy of Eternal lives throughout eternity.
Dr. C. H. Levermore, Bok PRIZE WINNER
Long a worker in Peace Societies, Professor Levermore received the first $50,000 from the hands of John W. Davis.
The Lord is my Shepherd Mrs. Hattie Critchlow Jensen, of Salt Lake City (These stanzas received honorable mention in the Eliza Roxey Snow Prize Memorial Contest)
If I knew that Life's span were measured, And this were my last "today"— Of all the sweet thoughts I have treasured These are the ones I would say:
"The Lord is my Shepherd; I shall not want."
When the thorns of affliction press heavy, And the pain is too great to express, I can hear his sweet voice calling gently; "Have patience—ere long you'll find rest:"
"He maketh me to lie down in green pastures: He leadeth me beside the still waters."
What joy to know he is near me— When struggling through life's daily tread— To know that he tenderly loves me— That for me was his blood freely shed.
"He restoreth my soul: he leadeth me in the Paths of righteousness for his name's sake."
I have oft in my dreams of the future, Not bounded by limited time, Imagined myself in his presence Partaking of glory divine.
"Thou preparest a table before me in the Presence of my enemies: thou anointest My head with oil; my cup runneth over."
Though perchance my burdens were heavy And cares have o'ershadowed my way— And sorrow and grief were my portion, Thank God! He has taught me to say:—
"Yea, though I walk in the valley of the shadow Of death, I will fear no evil: for thou art with me; Thy rod and thy staff they comfort me."
I doubt not his justice and mercy, His promise to me makes me whole; The dawn of a brighter hereafter Enlightens and raises my soul;
I trust in his mercy and goodness, I know that salvation is sure, If I follow wherever he beckons, And chasten my soul to endure,
"Surely goodness and mercy shall follow me all The days of my life: and I will dwell in the house Of the Lord forever."
CHAMPIONS OF WOMAN SUFFRAGE Abraham Lincoln, Horace Mann, Theodore Roosevelt Woodrow Wilson
Eighty-eight years ago, when Abraham Lincoln was a young man twenty-seven years of age, he declared for woman suffrage. He was the first great American statesman to ask that suffrage be extended to the woman. Later, the great educator, Horace Mann, became an ardent advocate of suffrage for women. That was seventy-five years ago. In 1912, through the good offices of Theodore Roosevelt, a woman suffrage plank was placed in the platform of the Progressive party. Woodrow Wilson was the first president of the United States to go before the United States Senate and ask for the passage of a federal amendment, granting suffrage to the women of the United States. To these champions of woman's rights, the heart of the womanhood of America turns in fond memory and in gratitude, as the curtain lowers over the life of the last great actor of the group.
THE Relief Society Magazine Vol. XI MARCH, 1924 No. 3
The Relief Society the First Woman's Organization By Alice Louise Reynolds
We have often been asked, "Is the Relief Society the oldest woman's organization in the world?" Because of the frequency with which this question has been put to us, we are presenting the best material we have at hand, asking the reader to keep in mind that there is so little material available in respect to women's organizations until modern times, that the discussion must be regarded as a discussion of modern movements.
The Relief Society was organized on the 17th day of March, 1842, in the city of Nauvoo. The first woman's organization in the world, of which we have any record is the Female Anti-Slavery Society, formed in 1837. To continue this history of women's organizations, the Sorosis Club, of New York, usually given credit for being the first woman's club, was organized in the year 1868. In 1889 the first convention of the federated clubs of America was held in New York City. The first Woman's Suffrage Convention, which was known under the name of the First Woman's Rights Convention, was held in Seneca Falls, New York, in 1848. We celebrated last summer the seventy-fifth anniversary of the calling of that convention. The first National Convention of the Woman's Christian Temperance Union was called in 1874. The Young Woman's Christian Association came into being in 1858.
With the material we are able to present, it is evident that the only national organization of women, of which we have any information, older than the Relief Society, is the Female Anti-Slavery Society, which discontinued its work when slavery was abolished. The American Woman Suffrage Association, brought into being in 1848, was six years younger than the Woman's Relief Society; but it, like the Anti-Slavery Society, has accomplished the work for which it was organized and has passed out of existence. To be sure, other organizations have succeeded it, which are working for the extended rights of women, but these organizations do not make appeal in precisely the same way as did the American Suffrage Association; for the women who are working for the extension of women's rights are divided into two groups, the group that believes that the end will be reached soonest by continuing intact women's organizations, and the group that believes that their objective will best be reached through the medium of political parties.
Taking the facts into consideration, we feel justified in concluding that the Woman's Relief Society is the oldest woman's organization in the world that has continued its work, and that has as its aim the organization of women in any part of the world where the Church has been organized.
It is entirely possible that women belonging to both the Federated Clubs of America and the American Woman Suffrage Association would challenge the right of the Relief Society to first place, on the ground that a man called the Relief Society women together and organized them, while in the instance of the American Woman's Suffrage Association and the Federated Clubs, women took the initiative both in calling the women together and in organizing them. True as is the contention of the women of other organizations that the Relief Society was organized by a man, another thing is equally true, and that is that this organization was brought into being for the benefit, uplift and advancement of women, and that it is none other than a woman's organization. In the light of these facts, we feel that the Relief Society is entitled to be called the first organization of women in the world, to persist, as the first Woman's Rights Convention was not called until six years after the organization of the Relief Society, and the first woman's club was not brought into existence until the Relief Society was twenty-five years of age, while the National Council of Women naturally came at a very much later date.
The B. Y. U. Leadership Nursery By Laura Gardner
"Babies big and babies small, Babies short and babies tall; Babies so tiny they can't sit up, Babies who drink from a silver cup; Babies that laugh, and babies that crawl, Babies that eat, sleep, creep, cry and all. Oh, what in the world is half so sweet As a baby!"
Dark and light, pale and rosy, sad and smiley babies, one finds all types in the Day Nursery at the Brigham Young University during Leadership Week, for room 38E is a veritable Baby Land. Babies are checked in from the tiny cuddly ones of six weeks in tatted hoods and woolly shawls, who must be guarded with greatest care, to the impish, dancing-eyed, redheaded boy of six and one-half years who can tweak an ear here, pull a curl there and steal cookies or toys from the smaller folk, under the very noses of the watchful sentinels. Surely the biology room has never exhibited more interesting specimens for research and study!
The kiddy coops and kars! We have cradles, baskets, automobile tires, packing boxes, blankets, and any receptacle large enough to hold a cherub or group of cherubs. Story teller holds her little group of worshipers spellbound with tales of "The Three Bears," "Beauty and the Beast," and other nursery classics. Busy sentinels are on guard to keep tiny tots within bounds. There is an occasional escape and mother's precious pets are discovered wandering through the corridors of the building. Occasionally there is a conscientious student who has pored over his papers long enough to really enjoy life, who scowls at the awful din that comes from the nursery and hunts the remotest corner of the library, then finally resorts to absorbent cotton from the bacteriology laboratory to shut out from his busy brain the noise of the hundred young hopefuls who are making the rafters ring next door.
DAY NURSERY, BRIGHAM YOUNG UNIVERSITY LEADERSHIP WEEK
To the Associated Women Students of the University who have cheerfully turned nurses, the babies are not the only item of interest. They not only study babies, but parents as well. There is the anxious mother who hesitates between quieting her crying infant and getting a seat in general assembly. Next comes the proud father with his group of three or four that he gladly checks with the responsible looking girls at the door, and goes contentedly away to his lecture, free now to go where he will. Between sessions the doors are thronged with mothers coming back to make sure that all is right in the nursery. Lest parents get confused in finding their charges in the over-filled room, careful nurses tag each infant with his name and number and no family can find an exchanged member after a day in the nursery. The tag gives the infant a real thrill and in many cases the owner refuses to give up his precious label when he is checked out.
"Do you get paid for this?" a father asks, and the willing nurses open their eyes wide at the mere thought. Get paid?—Yes, in the joy that comes from a day in the Nursery with a group of happy, laughing children whose parents can leave them there and feel satisfied and confident that they will be well cared for until called for. The thanks of the grateful mother and her smile, full of good will are enough. Indeed, no department during Leadership Week has more charms than the Day Nursery.
LAUGH IT OFF
Are you worsted in a fight? Are you cheated of your right? Laugh it off.
Don't make tragedies of trifles, Don't shoot butterflies with rifles— Laugh it off.
Does your work get into kinks? Are you near all sorts of brinks? Laugh it off.
If it's sanity you're after, There's no recipe like laughter— Laugh it off.
—Modern Methods.
EDITORIAL
Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah
Motto—Charity Never Faileth
THE GENERAL BOARD
MRS. CLARISSA SMITH WILLIAMS - - - - - President MRS. JENNIE BRIMHALL KNIGHT - - - - - First Counselor
MRS. LOUISE YATES ROBISON - - - - - Second Counselor MRS. AMY BROWN LYMAN - - - - - General Secretary and Treasurer
Mrs. Emma A. Empey Mrs. Lotta Paul Baxter Mrs. Ethel Reynolds Smith Mrs. Jeanette A. Hyde Mrs. Julia A. Child Mrs. Barbara Howell Richards Miss Sarah M. McLelland Mrs. Cora L. Bennion Mrs. Rosannah C. Irvine Mrs. Annie Wells Cannon Mrs. Julia A. F. Lund Miss Alice Louise Reynolds Mrs. Lalene A. Hart Mrs. Amy Whipple Evans
Mrs. Lizzie Thomas Edward, Music Director Miss Edna Coray, Organist
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
Editor - - - - - CLARISSA SMITH WILLIAMS Associate Editor - - - - - ALICE LOUISE REYNOLDS Business Manager - - - - - JEANETTE A. HYDE Assistant Manager - - - Amy Brown Lyman
Room 29, Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah
Vol. XI MARCH, 1924 No. 3
The Relief Society Birthday
The 17th of March, 1924, marks the eighty-second anniversary of the organization of the Relief Society, a fact that suggests that we are within hailing distance of the century mark. The words "opportunity" and "responsibility" loom very large on our banner as we march along. It is a great privilege to have the opportunity to carry the gospel of Christ, and the gospel of culture, to every woman in the world who will accept of our offerings; and it is a source of increasing enlightenment and progress. But we are entrusted with this very responsibility. Well might we stagger under the load, were it not that, like Nephi of old, we believe that God will grant unto us strength according to our faith and diligence.
Mrs. Charlotte Perkins Gilman quite startled the public when she told them that nearly one-half of the world's power had been kept within four walls. She insisted that it be freed, stating that the best results would be accomplished if this mighty force were turned loose in public life.
An incident in the recent history of Chicago is to the point. A movement for a five-million-dollar bond issue was launched. The men wanted the issue for the making of a zoological garden, and, in keeping with their desires, all the big papers of Chicago were supporting their project. A woman connected with the Chicago schools chanced to know that the room provided for the school children of that city was wholly inadequate, consequently she suggested that a counter campaign be inaugurated for a five-million-dollar bond issue for the building of school houses, and that the slogan of the campaign be, "Monkeys or Kids." The school people had no opportunity for publicity through the daily papers, so that they had to be contented with such publicity as might be afforded apart from the press. They tagged people on the streets; had processions of the children, in which they carried banners, setting forth their desires. The thing "took like wildfire." Everywhere, in the streets, on the cars, in the shops, everybody was asking everybody else, "Who are you for, monkeys or kids?" Election day came. The issue for the school bond went over two to one, and the issue for the zoo was defeated two to one. Had there not been a woman in Chicago who knew the school situation, and in addition to that, knew how to make the school situation known to others, in all probability the children would have continued to suffer for housing; the bond issue would have been put over for the zoo, and the monkeys would have won the day.
Leadership Week at the Brigham Young University
Sixty-six stakes were represented at the leadership week this year, marking a considerable advancement over the attendance last year. Everywhere one looked Relief Society workers were in evidence. We feel sure that we shook hands with not fewer than twenty stake presidents, during this week, as well as other representatives. To be sure, the greater number of workers were from the nearby stakes, but it is surprising how widely distributed the representation was. One saw representatives one moment from Canada, another from Idaho, and so on, from Cache Valley to Box Elder, Tooele, Uintah, Tintic, South Sanpete and Panguitch, and many other stakes not mentioned that lie in between and beyond to the south.
The opinion is quite prevalent that this was the best leadership week that the institution has conducted. The General Board was represented by Counselors Jennie B. Knight and Louise Y. Robison, and Miss Alice L. Reynolds. In addition to lectures given by practically every member of the faculty, there were forty-two lecturers from the outside. It is felt that there was not so much visiting done this year as formerly, but that persons coming selected a group of courses for the week and attended each day.
Notable among the features of the week was the great number of paintings from Utah artists found in the halls and rooms of the plant. The music was of an exceptionally high order. In the evening entertainments the visitors came in contact with the drama, the pageant, chorus and orchestra music. The slogan of the week had been "Leadership for Community Soul Building," and everywhere the people in attendance found much food for their souls.
IT'S TIME FOR SPREADING CHEER By S. E. Kiser
It's time to be forsaking The old ways for the new; It's time to aid in making The orphan's hopes come true; The time is come for giving, Not roses to the dead, But courage to the living Whose eyes are full of dread.
It's time for letting kindness Crowd selfishness aside; Cause those who sit in blindness To think that greed has died. Misfortune is unsparing In spreading sorrow still; The time is come for sharing The gladness of good will.
It's time to be forgetting Ambitions that are base, And time again for letting Love glorify your face; The time is come for turning With cheer for those who plead; It's time again for learning To do the gracious deed.
It's time to be declaring A kindly dividend, And time again for daring To be the cripple's friend; The time is come for giving, Not laurels to the dead, But gladness to the living Whose hearts are filled with dread.
—Ohio Educational Monthly.
Mrs. Woodrow Wilson
Twice within the year it has been the sad duty of the Magazine to extend heartfelt sympathy to one who has been the companion of a president of the United States. To Mrs. Harding, who suffered the severe shock of having President Harding stricken down, our deepest and heartfelt sympathy. To Mrs. Woodrow Wilson, who has stood for months by the bedside of the brilliant man, whose physical vigor, our hearts go out in profound sympathy in this the hour of her deep bereavement and separation. May she draw comfort, in reliance on the blessings of the Lord, and in the ever-sure words of consolation to be found within the Holy Bible.
A Christian Revival in America By Harrison R. Merrill
"It is significant that Papini's great work is the best selling book of non fiction in America," says the Chicago Tribune, one of the largest and most influential newspapers in America. What is significant about that? One may ask. The remarkable sale of Dorothy Canfield's translation of Giovanni Papini's Life of Christ, seems to point to the fact that there has been a great revival of interest in Jesus Christ and in Christian ideals. While the sale of this one book may not be conclusive evidence of such a revival, other indications seem to substantiate the belief that there is a tremendous wave of religious enthusiasm sweeping over this country. It is seen in the remarkable growth of all churches during the last year or more, in the united front many churches are presenting to the world, and in the great movement towards week-day religious training in America.
The Latter-day Saint Church has, for many years, attempted to supplement secular education with training in religion: the same movement now appears in eastern states among other religious denominations who have sought and found co-operation with school boards to such an extent that one hour a week is taken from the schedule of secular classes, and given over entirely to the various churches. It is reported, too, that these Bible classes are attended by large numbers of enthusiastic pupils. It is said that when the day-school classes are dismissed for the religion class, the pupils march to their various church class rooms, with banners flying and with expressions of genuine joy upon their countenances. Such a thing could not have happened, or at least did not happen, ten years ago.
Educators, sociologists, and others who are thinking upon national problems, have come to the conclusion that in true Christianity alone is found principles that will save the nation and the world. Almost to a man the leaders in America have placed themselves upon record in a manner favorable to religion. Roger W. Babson, the much quoted business interpreter of America says: "The need of the hour is not more factories or materials, not more railroads or steamships, not more armies or navies, but rather more education based on the plain teachings of Jesus. The prosperity of our country depends on the motives and purposes of the people. These motives and purposes are directed in the right course only through religion.
"Religion, like every thing else of value, must be taught. It is possible to get more religion in industry and business only through the development of Christian education and leadership. With the forces of evil backed by men and money systematically organized to destroy, we must back with men and money all campaigns for Christian education.
"I insist that the safety of our sons and daughters as they go out on the streets this very night is due to the influence of the preachers rather than to the influence of the policemen and lawmakers. Yes, the safety of our nation, including all groups, depends on Christian education. Furthermore, at no time in our history has it been more greatly needed."
Recently Dr. Charles Abram Ellwood, one of the foremost sociologists of America, declared in a course of lectures given at the Brigham Young University, that a reconstruction of religion along lines laid down by Jesus of Nazareth is the crying need and almost the only hope of the world. We quote from Dr. Ellwood's words: "Our world needs adequate spiritual leadership—" "Only a Christian leadership can save our civilization from going on the rocks"—"The universities have become too much enamored of the gods of the market-place." Dr. Ellwood's book, The Reconstruction of Religion, has had a phenomenal sale, another indication that America is looking for true religion.
Undoubtedly America is standing in the morning light of a new day, religiously speaking. Never before has there been so much constructive thinking along lines of religion and spirituality. Religious forms that cannot stand the white light of publicity, and sound thinking, must sink from view. Those virile religions, capable of seeing and caring for the needs of humanity, will rise and take the leadership in the reconstruction of religion.
Opportunity is knocking at the gates of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. The world is coming to Zion for the word of the Lord. The Church must be able to take the spiritual leadership of the world. While we know that Christ is at the helm, we must not forget that he works always through human agencies. The responsibility is ours. May we rise to the situation and do some constructive building upon firm foundations which have been laid during the last hundred years. We have the truth, but we must not forget that even truth is progressive; devices and ideas must change to fit the new world which greets us daily.
A Daughter of the Southern Sea By Annie D. Palmer
The little village of Saunia rang with merriment. All through the day its dusky inhabitants had been astir in preparation for the marriage feast of Paula's lovely daughter. At four in the morning they had paddled away, in their canoes, and had returned early in the forenoon with a good catch of various fishes, including eels and octopuses. They had scoured the neighborhood for breadfruit, taro, and bananas. They had brought down generous supplies of cocoanuts from surrounding palm trees, and they had strangled the life out of a huge, pet porker by sitting on each end of a pole placed across his neck. All the cooking pits of the village had been utilized, for there would be visitors from every part of the island.
And now the feast was spread. The long rows of mats laid upon the grass and covered with banana leaves, were decorated here and there with sprigs of orange blossom. The cooked food was placed conveniently in generous heaps. There were stacks of large leaves on which it would be served. Bordering every row were fresh young cocoanuts, filled with milk a cooling and delicious beverage which nature had abundantly provided.
Faintly at first, but with increasing volume, came the melodious song of the rowers, in boats skimming lightly across the bay. The villagers, men, women, and children hurried to the edge of the water and far out into its shallow ripples to meet the visiting party, and push the boats out of reach of the incoming tide. Laughing, talking, shouting, they advanced to the shady spot where the repast was laid, and seated themselves on grass or mats facing the decorated "festal board."
But Tafi was not there. She had wandered unseen up the narrow pathway to the big banyan tree, at the foot of the hill. With aching heart she sat mechanically plucking ferns and grasses from the luxuriant growth around her, and twining them into a wreath to be laid upon one of her cherished graves.
It was a beautiful retreat, was the seclusion of the banyan tree. Its thick foliage afforded shelter alike from sun and rain; its many trunks and branches were draped and festooned, heavily, with vines and all its recesses, nooks, and alcoves were carpeted thick with grass. Here many times Tafi had sat with her husband-lover and let her tears fall in spite of his tenderness, because of the death of their babies. And here she had sat alone and wept for him when he had followed their little ones into the land of spirits. But once, as she drew near the place, she heard voices and the language of white men; and from that time she had abandoned the banyan to the missionaries who had headquarters near the village.
This morning she had seen the missionaries go away in their boat. The gathering of the crowd had intensified her loneliness. Her soul revolted against being forced into the festivities. Musing and dreaming she had followed the path, and sat as we have noted, weaving a chaplet in memory of her dead.
Recess whence it came and saw a white woman kneeling with bowed head. Tafi could understand enough to know that the woman was asking God for strength to do her part in the labors of the mission, and for courage to bear its trials. She understood, too, that the woman prayed that she might love these dark-skinned people and teach them to love her. As the woman rose to her feet, Tafi made her presence known by a little cough.
"I did not see you," said Mrs. Hale, drawing near.
"No, and I not see you," answered Tafi in broken English.
"Why are you not at the feast?"
"I cannot. My heart is so tired, so sick."
"You mean you are in sorrow?"
"Yes, sorrow. My husband die. So, too, my babies. All gone! All gone!" She drew her flowing hair across her face to dry the tears.
"Poor girl! How many little ones did you lose?" asked Mrs. Hale.
"Two. And my babies all time burn—die soon—not baptize—not save—all time burn, all time burn!"
"No, no, dear little sister. Your babies will never burn. Why should they? They never did a wrong. Your babies are saved. If you do right you shall have them again in your arms never more to be separated from them."
"My husband, too? Will he—?" She paused, unable to find words for the resurrection and the reuniting.
"He will live again and you shall know him. But you must be baptized, by one of God's servants. There are many things you must learn."
"You like teach me?"
"Very much. You can come to the mission house and we will read God's word together from our Bibles."
"Maybe I come tomorrow. You like I bring Salat?"
"As you wish."
"Maybe so you make me be glad. Maybe some time sing."
"I hope so. We shall all be glad if we do the will of the Lord."
When the two women parted half an hour later, each one felt stronger for the conflict before her; Mrs. Hale, in the thought of having given comfort to the sorrowful; Tafi, in the new found hope of life and love, beyond the grave and the assurance that her babies were not suffering the tortures of the fires of hell.
The feasting and hilarity, begun at the village in mid afternoon, continued until nightfall. No one had mentioned the absence of Tafi. They were accustomed to her keeping apart with her grief. But as the shadows lengthened, and a cool breeze from the sea sprang up, some one proposed a dance. The dance could never be a real success without being well led; and no one in the village could lead with such grace and variety of motion as Tafi. They found her with her Bible in a hut, far removed from the merry-making. Every excuse she made was vain, every plea put aside. She must lead the dance.
The young people of the party and some of the older ones, were seated in a large semi-circle; the singing accompanied by the wooden drum and the clapping of hands, was begun as Tafi was dragged unwillingly into the circle. She seated herself in full view of all the dancers. With queenly grace her supple body moved forward and back, from side to side; her arms and hands, smooth and perfect as a sculptor's model, waved and circled, were borne aloft, carried forward in graceful curves, and again lowered to the grass at her sides; and all the others imitated as best they could, or joined in with the clapping and the song. As the dancing continued, the excitement grew; and soon Tafi, urged by a chief sitting near, arose to her feet and led the dance much after the fashion of the ballet of the modern stage. And so they danced and wildly interpreted nature's fiercest moods, or revealed the passions surging within their breasts. Something within her told Tafi that this wild dance would not be approved by her friend at the mission, and when it was over she ran swiftly and hid herself, and was not seen again that night.
"The chief of Lufi was much pleased with my daughter's dancing," said Salu, a few days later, when the feasting was over and the guests had all departed. "He has asked that she visit Lufi, that his brother may see her charm."
"The brother of the chief of Lufi is a black hog," replied Tafi. "Besides, I shall never dance again as our people dance."
"And why will you not dance again, my daughter?" asked her father.
"It is not right. My spirit tells me—"
"Who has set you up to be the chief of Saunia? Yesterday
A DAUGHTER OF THE SOUTHERN SEA. 129 you refused to smoke. Today, you say you will not dance. What fool notion will rule you next? I say you shall go to Lufi, and you shall lead the villagers in their dance. Why not?" "Tafi feared her father when he was angry, so she did not reply. But that night she secretly prayed that something would happen to change her father's mind. Little did she dream that things so important were already happening that her father would be kept extremely busy for many weeks. The rights of the Island King had been disputed and rumors of war were coming to Saunia, by land and sea. We must not stop to detail the savagery of the mad conflict. That is not a part of our story. But when it was over, Tafi's brother had met the cruel fate of many another warrior, his wife and baby had been accidentally drowned, and his three orphaned boys became the charge of the childless widow.. Never were south sea island boys more carefully tended. Never more carefully trained. Tafi would have sent them to the mission school; would have had them baptized; but the mention of the missionaries so enraged her father that she did not even dare herself to comply with the ordinance. She did, however, visit Mrs. Hale, and was continually drinking in the spirit of the gospel.; "Tafi,"' said the oldest of her boys one day, "may I go out to the reef and dive for coral? We can sell the coral to the white people who are on the big steamer in the harbor." "Are you not afraid of the sharks?" asked Tafi. "I do not rule the sharks," the boy replied. "God will keep me from the sharks." "And what will you do with the money if you sell the coral?" continued Tafi. "I shall pay tithing first. After that I shall bring the rest to you.". Tafi took him in her arms and kissed his cheek, which was not the custom of her people. She was gradually picking up many foreign manners from her association with Mrs. Hale. But the woman was not happy. There was no want; for the need of these simple folk was small, and they shared in common both the food and shelter of the village. She wanted to be free, free to unite with the church in which her faith was fixed; free to proclaim her creed; free to mingle with the people of her choice. More than all she wanted to come into the fold through the way of baptism, and to have her boys come in by the same way. Gladly would she have stolen away and been baptized secretly; but Mrs. Hale and the missionaries advised her to be patient and wait for her father's consent. Constantly she pleaded: 130 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE "Read the Book of Mormon, Salu. It is the same as many things you tell about our traditions." "I shall read my Bible. I learned the letters from its holy 'pages. I have read no other book. I shall read no other." "Then read from your Bible the prophecies— "I have read the Bible through. Let me alone." "The Bible tells about prophets and apostles." "They are of the past. Blessed were they who saw and heard the holy apostles of the Lord." "And yet these same people sought the life of the apostle Paul and stoned his disciple to death. Satan always prompts—" "If I should see an apostle, I would kneel at his feet while the devil shook his fist in my face." "The missionaries tell us that in their Church there are apostles—". "They lie. When they show me an apostle, I shall believe them." "And will you then let me and the boys join their Church?" "Indeed, yes. On the day my eyes look upon an apostle, my whole family will be ready for baptism." Salu made this statement with the most perfect confidence that no such miraculous person as an apostle would ever set foot upon his native soil. As a smile of contentment lighted up the countenance of Tafi, he felt that he could afford to be generous in a matter so positive, and added: "Nay, I will go further. On the day I see an apostle in Saunia, I shall pray for the conversion of the entire village." "So be it, my father," answered Tafi hopefully. From the conference with her father the young woman hurried to the confidence of Mrs, Hale. "When will the apostle come?" she asked eagerly. "He is to arrive on the fourteenth of next month. Will your father hear him?" "Salu has promised that when an apostle comes, I and my scns and all the people of the village may join the church." Tafi repeated the promise as she understood its meaning, as no doubt it was meant by the chief. It was the spirit but not the letter of his words. He found occasion to look to the letter only at a later date. All the village was astir on the fourteenth of March. The wharf was thronged with villagers who had gathered to watch the landing of two men from the big steamer which would soon drop anchor in the bay. For it had been rumored that one of these men was an apostle, and that he would sojourn for a few days in the village of Saunia. Salu, the chief, stirred not. Knowing full well that his A DAUGHTER OF THE SOUTHERN SEA 131 daughter would hold him to his promise concerning her baptism, he made up his mind not see this man, this apostle. So, pretending a severe pain in his head, he lay on his mats, anxiously watched by his faithful spouse, Salai. "Why did Satan prompt me to promise her?" he growled. "I want to see the great foreigner—I must! But, no. I cannot. I must away to Lufi while he stays in Saunia." "But if you leave, he will convert Saunia," suggested Salai. "So he will. I must remain for the protection of my people. But I will not see him.. I will not see him." Conference at mission headquarters was a wonderful gathering. Interest in the great foreigner, the apostle, had spread rapidly over the island, and many came from its farthest bounds to see and hear him. His manner was pleasing, his face was good to behold, and his speeches, given through an interpreter, proclaimed him all he professed to be. For two days Tafi sat almost constantly under sound of his voice. For two days while all Saunia feasted, she took not a morsel of food nor a sip of drink, fasting and praying that her father might see him. The chief was obdurate. Curiosity was strong, the hospitality of his house urged, his daughter pleaded, and the "still small voice" prompted him to yield. But Satan was there also, and held his ground tenaciously. What would the chief of Lufi think if Tafi were permitted to follow strange gods? Why should his people lay hold of a different religion? Why did the apostle come to Saunia? Why should he, the chief, yield even the least little bit? He would not.. No, he would not. A week went by. The last of the visitors had departed. The apostle had gone to spend a few days at the north of the island, and only Mrs. Hale and one of the elders remained. At the mission home. Salu walked about the village. It was a relief to do that. But. Another sorrow was in his heart. Puamo the fifteen year old lad was very ill. All remedies known to native skill had failed to restore him. The banana which Tafi had chewed and offered him from her own mouth, did not tempt him, His breath was short, his lips parched. He talked wildly of long journeys across the sea and great monsters to be met. In his saner moments he clung to Salu and begged, that the apostle be brought to heal him. "It was in the Bible, Salu," whispered the lad feebly. "What is in the Bible?" asked Salu in his tenderest tones. "About praying for the sick—and the oil—you can ask Tafi." "What is it he says?" asked the chief. And amid sobs and tears the woman told how even in modern times, the sick were healed when the elders prayed over them, anointing them with oil. 132 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE "If the apostle comes here—' The strong man paused, half relenting. The lad clasped his hands, and looked his appeal through tear-wet eyes. "Well, let him come. If the boy is healed, it is well," assented Salu. "And you will see him?" asked Tafi. "No. I leave when he approaches." There were no elders there when, breathless, Tafi reached headquarters. They and the apostle were to arrive toward evening from the north. Elder Harvey had gone for a walk in the wood. Salu met the woman returning alone and could not conceal his disappointment. "I must take the canoe," she said, "and go to meet their boat. They will come with all possible speed when I have told them. I must fly!" "You!" snorted the chief. "You are weak as a baby. Send one of the men." 7 "There is no one here. The fishing—' "Ah, yes. And I could not come up to the boat without seeing the apostle." "Watch the lad," said Tafi. "See that you do not let him die before I come. I shall bring them." Salu tried a moment later to call her back, but it was useless. She was already shoving the canoe into the shallow water, and the sound of the waves drowned his voice. The man stood for a moment watching her as she put to sea in the frail craft. Had she been in her usual strength he would not have feared. But she had not slept and had eaten almost nothing since the child became ill. He wondered if now her strength would endure. How she worked! A few strokes of the paddle on this side, then a few on that. The canoe must be guided where she wished it to go. How far she leaned forward to get a long stroke! How she pulled, in her eagerness to reach the boat quickly! The old chief hastened to the lad, where we must leave him and Salai to watch while we follow the canoe now skimming so swiftly over the water. She must not venture too far from shore, for the breeze was so stiff it was already a hindrance to her progress. She must keep clear of the rocks, and of the breakers that rush and tumble against the reef. She must watch for the boat, that it might notpass her unnoticed and so thwart her plan, And she must hurry —hurry—hurry. That was the one thought she kept repeating— that and the prayer in her heart that her boy would not = before she could get help. There was no way for her to tell the time exactly, but she knew she had been out a long time, that she was far from home. A DAUGHTER OF THE SOUTHERN SEA 133 She began to look longingly across the water for the boat. Her canoe moved more and more slowly. It seemed too heavy to respond to the pull on the paddle. There was a terrible pain in her back. She could hardly straighten again when she bent to her task. And now the water grew dark. She looked at the sky. There was nothing but clouds—clouds black and ominous. A sharp streak of lightning seemed to tear the clouds asunder, but they remained as before. In a few moments the rain came down in torrents. She tried to go ashore, certain that she would be more likely to meet the boat party there than on this stormy sea, The breeze was now a gale, and the canoe, a mere plaything for the angry waves, floated helplessly, quite unaffected by her feeble resistance. Suddenly her paddle grated harshly against a rock and broke in her hands. The storm blinded her. She did not know where she was, but she felt sure the water was too deep to wade; and she had no strength to swim. All was lost. There was nothing to do but to drift with the current, and she did not know where the current would take her. It might toss her upon the rocks, in which case she would be dashed to death; it might carry her far out to sea; or it might take her into the deep part of the bay where the sharks— - a _——; At the thought of sharks there came to her mind the words of her darling boy: "I am not the ruler of the sharks. God will not let the sharks hurt me." Dear Lad! Was he dead? Would God take care of her, too? She prayed, oh, how fervently she prayed that he would send help tothem both! —_—_, Then she tried to make the canoe go by paddling with her hands and then, and then— - She knew no more until she heard the kind voice of Mrs. Ale: "Poor little sister! She did not know how weak she was! And the storm was so terrible! Here is warm milk, dear sister. You must drink it." "The apostle," murmured the woman in a whisper that was hardly audible. "My boy will die!" "The apostle is here, and your son is healed," answered Mrs. Hale and Tafi grasped the warm hand of the boy who was patting her cheek,, "Ts it, indeed, you and not a spirit, Puamo?" she asked. "It is true, Tafi. I am well," the boy assured her as he stooped to kiss her forehead. "The apostle came and I am well." "Where is Salu?" Tafi asked. The chief came forward and took her hand, assuring her that he never could have forgiven himself, had her errand failed. The missionaries' boat had gone around the island, he told her: 136. RELIEF SOCIETY. MAGAZINE either for a walk or to play golf. He had dinner at 7 and was always in bed before midnight. *President Wilson's youthful relish of detective stories as a mental relaxation was one of his most famous traits. "There are blessed intervals," he said, "when I forgot by one means or another that I am President of the United States. One is to get a rattling good detective story, get after some imaginary offender and chase him all over the country." As President Woodrow Wilson became an ardent golfer, not of the fair weather kind merely but one whose love for the open sent him out over: the course in a driving rain or with snow on the ground. Returning one afternoon from a long walk through the snow after a game at the Columbia Country Club links, the President, being late, made a short cut to the White House through the Interior Department building. He found a sign which said, "No admission after 2 o'clock." In answer to his summons the doorkeeper came out, eyed him in a somewhat hostile fashion and said: _. "Well, what do you want, and who are you?" "I'm Mr. Woodrow Wilson," said the President with a smile.; "Well, well," said the doorkeeper, finally, with recognition, "I thought your face looked familiar." * There is perhaps living yet in Los Angeles a girl who, nearly ten years ago, called upon President Wilson. She went there with a definite determination, as this little story will illustrate. "Mr. President," said Laura May Reilly, the miss in question, "won't you please kiss me?" "With the greatest pleasure," said the President, and he gave the petitioner a kiss right on her cupid bow lips. "T'm seven going on eight,' said Miss Laura May, "and my father told me to ask the President for a kiss and bring it back to Los Angeles, and I'm going to do it." *% OK President Wilson was very fond of young children, and very tender toward the afflicted. One day a long and distinguished line of callers was kept waiting while the President, stepping to one side, shook hands with John W. Kern Jr., son of Senator Kern. The boy had been a victim of infantile paralysis and was there on crutches hoping the might be greeted by the President. The President not only shook his hands, but gave the eager, grateful boy several minutes of his time. STORIES ABOUT WOODRORW WILSON 137 The independence of Woodrow Wilson exemplified itself not only in matters of politics and statecraft, but in divers other ways. He aroused curiosity among associates in Washington by using for the ordinary "O. K." the then strange word "okeh." It was supposed that this was a whim, no one imagining it had an authoritative basis. However, it developed that the initials "O. K." stood for the ancient word "okeh,"' which the President had resurrected.: m «+ Among the President's accomplishments but one which he very modestly concealed, was that of singing. "Father has a beautiful voice," said Miss Margaret Wilson. "It is really of fine quality, but he has not sung much except in concerts at college." * * * Possibly the most exciting days of his political career were in the New Jersey campaigns when he was the Democratic candidate for governor. Although his candidacy, was promoted and supported by Jim Smith, so-called boss of the State. Wilson broke with him during the campaign. After his election and inauguration, one of Smith's henchmen called upon him in the executive offices and denounced him for going back on "the boss." "You are no gentleman," roared the caller. "And you are no judge," replied the governor, showing him the door. ** Mrs. Wilson still retains, as one of her most prized possessions, the gold vanity case which the President gave her as a wedding present. In a place designed to hold a photograph she placed and still keeps the President's favorite picture of himself. * Secret service men assigned to guard the President always had. A difficult time keeping track of Mr. Wilson. Like Harounal-Raschid he loved to steal away and mingle with the crowds. One night, with Col. E. M. House, he left his quarters in New York and together they explored a part of the city, chiefly Broadway and Fifth Avenue. At length the President was recognized and a great crowd soon was following. The two distinguished companions escaped at Forty-third and Broadway by slipping into a building and going out the back way. Then, like two young fellows out for a lark, they boarded a bus and vanished. During the jaunt the President came upon a suffragette haranguing a crowd. That was in the day of very tense business in the suffragette line. She offered the President a tract, but he laughingly refused the proffer.. 138 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE He was continually breaking Presidential precedents. Early in his first term he left for Philadelphia by auto to consult an oculist. Exhilarated by the freedom he took lunch in a public dining room, strolled through the streets and into stores, returned to Washington in a public railroad coach and was driven to the White House in a hired automobile. * Although he was a man of striking individual appearance, President Wilson oftentimes was not recognized. Up in Cornish, Vt., the keeper of the toll bridge over the Connecticut River had recetved from the President the 15-cent impost a number of times, but, on account of faulty eyesight or lack of attention, he had never recognized his distinguished customer. But one day, looking somewhat closer, he had a revelation and asked: "Aren't you the President of the United States?" Mr. Wilson smiling acknowledged that he was. The toll taker was about to forego the 15 cents, but decided differently. —Los Angeles Examiner. NOTES WOMEN'S PROGRESS Miss Gildersleeve Speaks at Columbia Cornerstone Exercises In an address at the laying of the cornerstone of 'the new residence hall for women at-Columbia University yesterday afternoon Miss Virginia C. Gildersleeve, Dean of Barnard College, declared that the event was a monument to the enormous progress being made by women in higher education. University records show that last year the enrollment in the three main divisions making up the student body included 18,269 women and 15,194 men. The largest number of women was registered in the Summer session, where the total reached 8,295. There were 5,572 in the undergraduate, graduate and professional schools, and 4,402 in university extension, Officers, trustees and members of the university's faculties witnessed yesterday's exercises. The stone was put in place by President Nicholas Murray Butler—New York Times. 140 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE "T want one friend left in the world," replied Tom sadly. The two went home and here is what Bill found out. Tom's wife laid a stack of unpaid bills upon the table. They were added up and totaled nearly a thousand dollars. Some of them had been running for a year or more. There were with them curt notes demanding the money. A few questions, tactfully put, brought out the fact that Tom and Mary used no system whatever in their expenditures. They were in fact, up in the air. They bought what ever they fancied without regard for price. They had had hopes of saving a little money when they started out with married life but had never made the start and therefore no habit of thrift had ever been cultivated. Now, as _ things stood, it was even hopeless to think of such a thing. There was nothing left but the worry and the attempt to get along as best they could. After Bill had all the facts he said: "There is a way to pull out of this mess, but before you start it will be necessary to make a strong resolution and never break it. I will show you a plan that leads to success. That plan is a little book I'm going to make out for you." "Little book? What do you mean by that?" Bill smiled and picking up a ruled account book from the table said:. "You owe this little book just one thousand' dollars. Sup- 'pose I loaned you a thousand. How much could you pay back each month if you denied yourselves a few luxuries?" Tom looked at his wife as if asking her the question. "We should be able to pay a hundred dollars," replied Mary. "Of course, it would make us do without a lot of things we have been used to, but we could do it, in a pinch." "Well, that is exactly the scheme of this book. Your first creditor is Sam Jones. We write his name on the first page with the amount we owe him. We do that with each creditor until we have them all down in the book. "Now run over the pages and try and divide one hundred dollars among your creditors to be paid on the first of the month, without fail. You're lucky. There are just twenty creditors. Tom you don't owe every man in the town, just twenty of them. Divide one hundred dollars by twenty and you owe each of them five dollars on the first of each month. Easy. Isn't it?" "They won't stand for it," said Tom. "Oh yes they will. They will be glad to stand for it, Tom, when they know that you are working on a system which will assure them that they will get every cent you owe them inside of a year. Remember, though, that the success ofthis scheme depends upon faithfulness in making your payments." WHY WORRY?  "That should work out," said Tom, his face lighting up with a hopeful smile, the first in months. "It will, Tom. Depend on it. Give Mary what is left after the book is paid and run no further bills." "Pay cash," said Mary, "that's what I've always wanted to do, but never had it." "You'll have it from now on,' ' smiled Bill as he took his departure. * * * It was nearly three years later that I happened to meet Torn and Mary on the street. Both looked prosperous and happy. As I was a good friend of both I asked: "Doing any worrying, Tom?" He' laughed heartily. "Not a bit. Never realized what a poison thing worry was until Bill put me right. Not only did we pay all those bills like he said we would, but Mary got so used to economy and thrift that we only have a month or two left petore we pay ay on our new home. I tell you—," "We put the price of the new home on the little book too," interrupted Mary, "we got so used to paying that hundred dollars that when we were clear of debt we just naturally had to have that little book. Habit, you see. So charged our home on it and paid off the first of each month. It's the best ever— SYSTEM, THRIFT and no WORRYING allowed in our home." "Were you ever tempted to skip a month?" "No sir. The first of each month was a great event in our lives. After checking off the various names as paid, when Tom _ handed me what was left, you would think by looking at his face that he had just been elected president of the United States." The entire object of true education is to make people not merely do the right things, but enjoy the right things—not merely industrious, but to love industry—not merely learned, but to love knowledge—not merely pure, but to love purity—not merely just, but to hunger and thirst after justice—John Ruskin. Are we Pharisees? By Grace Ingles Frost The place was the dining room of a large, technical institution in a western state. The time, that hour when all employees met to partake of the midday meal. At one. Table sat the women, at other tables the men were seated. It was optional whether either faction so much as greeted the other. Howsoever, on this particular day perfect harmony seemed to prevail, if one might accurately judge from appearance. Not the slightest cloud obscured the mental horizon of those present. General conversation, combined with now and then a ripple of laughter, gave one the impression that these people might be members of one congenial family at meat. Just previous to the serving of dessert, a belated arrival entered the room. This person, a man, without speaking to anyone, unobtrusively seated himself at one of the tables occupied by those of his sex. Several of the men near him greeted him jovially. The majority of the men present paid no attention to him, apparently accepting his presence as an ordinary occurrence. At the women's table conditions were different. Many eyes were raised questioningly, but no comments were expressed verbally, except by one person. She was a woman of unusually refined appearance, who remarked to her neighbor that the stranger's presence in the room was presumptuous and altogether intolerable. As her mind dwelt upon the circumstance of the man being in their midst, the color in her face deepened and her hands trembled in their efforts to raise the food to her lips. If one could have followed the gyration of this 'woman's mind, one would have heard a mental monologue somewhat along this line: 'What right has such a creature to enter the room with such as I and attempt to deliberately 'break bread' with me? I have been raised not to associate with such as he, a criminal. I will not tolerate such an indignity offered to my womanhood." To the woman's mind the act of the stranger who had so inoffensively entered the room where she ate, had grown to the proportion of a personal affront. She became unjust in her self-righteousness to the extent of untruth, for the man had not attempted to break bread with her. Pushing aside her plate, the woman arose from the table. ARE WE PHARISEES? 143 With head raised haughtily and the flame of indignation burning in her cheeks, she left the room in search of one in authority to inquire if she must be subject to such insult. The conference was satisfactory to her. The man was told to remain away from the room while other employees were present. He must eat alone. And the man? Yes, he had committed a very serious offense. He was a sinner, but a repentant one. He was striving to obliterate his past by his service to others, and to make his present and future atone for his error. He was not the woman's equal in intelligence, nor breeding, probably, but he was doing his best. The mind of another individual who was seated that day at the table occupied by the women employees of this institution, was also extremely active. At first this person felt a trifle shocked at the man's presence and then her mind traveled back nearly two thousand years. She saw mentally a woman taken by certain self-righteous Pharisees, before One who was without sin. The words spoken upon that memorable occasion reechoed in her ears. The reply, too, of the Master in all its ners as this man, whom the woman with her delicate sensibilities, had refused to permit to remain in the same room with her. Yet the woman professed to follow the meek and lowly Jesus, professed, indeed, to be a devout believer in the mission of her Redeemer. Was her conduct consistent with her profession of faith? You who read these lines may answer. Feet, after she had first washed them with her tears and wiped them dry with her luxuriant tresses. The Master did not banish this sinner from his Presence. He even permitted her to kiss his feet on this occasion. And when the self-righteous Pharisee 144 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE forgave most, loved that Master most. Was not the scene which was acted in the dining room cf this institution that day a great contrast to the one which occurred in that house in Palestine almost two thousand years ago? After these many years of professed Christianity, shall we still advocate and practice the same self-righteousness that was practiced by those whom the Master we acknowledge as divine, has denounced as not being of him? Is it not time for us who call ourselves Christians to cease throwing stones and more truly help those who are repentant sinners to arise again? We cannot do so by drawing our garments aside lest perchance contact with the unfortunate shall contaminate us. When our Lord was reproached by his enemies for eating with publicans and sinners, this was his reply, "I come not to call the righteous, but sinners to repentance."" And, said he, "They who are whole need not a physician.' Only the selfrighteous Pharisee prays, "God, I thank thee that I am not as other men are, extortioners, unjust, adulterers, or even as this publican." Remember, the poor, sinning publican standing afar off, who would not lift up so much as his eyes unto heaven, hut smote upon his breast saying, '"God, be merciful to me, a sinner,' was more justified in the sight of God than was the other. How many of us today practice introspection? Those of us who do so know whether we are truly followers of the Lord Jesus Christ, or whether we are just Pharisees after all; Pharisees who are throwing stones or mud to thwart the plans of him who was lifted upon the Cross that he might draw all men unto him from the darkness unto light. To obey the law is to be a true democrat. If every man thinks every law must suit him in order that he shall obey it, he is not a democrat but an anarchist. The basis of good government is obedience to law as people have determined it to be. Young men should be trained to know that to be patriotic and democratic members of society they must realize what it means, not only what it means to obey, but to instill the act of obedience in others.— Chief Justice Taft. Notes from the Field By Amy Brown Lyman Summit Stake ° On October 30, 1923, at Kamas ward, in the Summit stake, a very successful social was given by the officers of the Relief Society, in honor of the thirteenth anniversary of the dedication of the Relief Society building of that ward. A very interesting program was given, including the story of how the house was built and how the money was obtained to build it, by the president, Mrs. Elva E. Lambert. Following the program an elaborate chicken dinner was served. Forty people were seated at the two long tables, which ran the length of the room. The company consisted of: thirty-eight members, twelve visitors, and twenty babies and small children. The Relief Society building was started sixteen years ago and was completed in about two and one-half years, and is valued at $2,200. The society has just completed a cement walk on the entire south side of the lot which is one half a city block, and has also put in a water hydrant. E Teachers' Topics With a view of increasing interest in the visits of the Relief 146 — RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Society teachers and with a view of having members throughout the organization profit by the teachers' topics, it is suggested by the General Board that all members of the Relief Society make it a point to be conversant with the current topic each month, and when the teachers do not introduce the subject themselves during the visit, it is suggested that the hostess lead out in the discussion. The topics are well prepared and worth while, and where the visiting teacher and the hostess are both familiar with them, and discuss them freely, the teachers' visits will be profitable to all concerned. Teachers' Districts It is requested by the General Board that Relief Society women in speaking of the territory assigned to a pair of teachers for visiting use the term "district" rather than the term "beat." In the teachers' book the word "district" is used throughout and is very much more dignified and suitable than the word "beat." New Zealand Mission Mrs. Martha J. Wright, president of the Relief Society of New Zealand, writes that she is very happy in her work in this far away land. In visiting at the various district conferences she has found the Relief Society women interested in their work and making every effort to live up to the gospel teachings, including the Word of Wisdom. She says: "The dear Maori sisters are very faithful in carrying forward the Relief Society work, and their reports which come in regularly will enable me to make a complete and interesting compiled report for the General Board." Accompanying the local reports sent in to Mrs. Wright are very interesting letters written in English by the local Maori secretaries. Maricopa Stake. Phoenix ward won the prize in the recent stake contest for the best average attendance at meetings during 1923, and will receive one dozen Relief Society song books as a prize. Tintic Stake The Tintic stake Relief Society held their annual stake party at the L. D. S. Church amusement hall. Those present were the stake officers and husbands, all ward officers and husbands, and the bishops of the wards with their wives. In all there were 65 in attendance. The evening included an interesting program, miscellaneous games, and an excellent chicken supper. NOTES FROM THE FIELD 147 Logan Stake: In Memoriam. In the death of Mary J. Pederson, widow of the late President H. A. Pederson, the church and community have lost one of its most faithful and earnest workers. She and her husband, who preceded her to the Great Beyond, two years ago, have been residents of Logan since their childhood. Mrs. Pederson was the mother of ten children, nine of whom, with a small granddaughter, survive her. She was a devoted member of the Logan stake Relief Society board, where her sweet smile and unselfish disposition will be greatly missed by her co-workers. An impressive funeral service was held December 14, where her many friends paid tribute to her sweet character, her humble spirit, her devotion to her family and her unselfish life of service. Hawaiian Mission Mrs. Louise C. Neff was appointed president of the Relief Society of the Hawaiian Mission, on August 4, 1923, to succeed Mrs. May Smith who served the Relief Society as president efficiently for several years and who with her husband, Wesley E. Smith, was released a few months previous to this time. Mrs. Neff chose as her counselors Sisters Minerva Fernandez and Rickie McQuire, two efficient local workers who have had a great deal of experience in the Relief Society work and who will render valuable assistance because of their knowledge of the Hawaiian language. In a letter written at Christmas time Mrs. Neff writes: 'We rejoice in our labors and hope to be able to advance the work that has been so well established in this mission by my predecessors. At the present time we are busily engaged in making Christmas boxes to send to the poor and unfortunate in our midst. We have also been asked to fill one hundred sixty boxes for the soldier boys who are stationed here." Malad Stake All ward Relief Societies in this stake have agreed to hold their wheat interest for maternity and child welfare work. Plans are now uhder way to establish in each ward something in the nature of a maternity cabinet or chest. Nine of the eleven Malad wards are located in Idaho, and two are located in Utah. During September the state field nurse from Boise accompanied by Relief Society workers visited all the schools in Oneida county. The children of school age were given thorough examinations and many of the defects discovered have since been corrected. -The expenses of the nurse were paid from funds which had been raised in the county through the sale of Red Cross seals and refunded to the county by the state organization. In Portage, Utah, a clinic was held, December 19, by Dr. Wilford Barber, Mrs, Ella Conover, and Miss Hansen, assisted by Dr. Black of 148 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Garland and by members of the Relief Society stake board. Forty-nine children of pre-school age were examined, also a number of mothers. Follow-up work will be done by Miss Hansen who will revisit Portage in January. Morgan Stake In Morgan stake very profitable bazaars hawe recently been held. Some of the wards joined with other auxiliaries and divided the profits. The Peterson Relief Society held a separate bazaar and was so successful that over and above the amount they had estimated they could raise, they had a surplus which was sufficient to cover the subscription price of the Relief Society Magazine for all their members. Weber Stake In the late afternoon of New Year's Eve, the Relief Society of Hooper ward took singers and visited all the elderly and homebound sisters of the ward. The serenade and the hand shake were cheering and helpful to both the visitors and the visited. Canadian Mission —. Mrs. Ida T. Quinney, president of the Relief Society in the Canadian mission, writes that the work in this field is favorably progressing. During the past year three new and enthusiastic Relief Societies have been organized. Juarez Stake 1923 was a very successful year in Juarez stake, which consists of five wards and one branch. The work was noticeably stimulated by the special Relief Society convention of four sessions held during the fall together with the regular ward conferences. Great effort is being made to raise the standard of the work of the visiting teachers, The teachers' topics are carefully discussed previous to visits and inspirational talks are given concerning the work and duties of the teachers. The stake board holds monthly officers' meetings, where the regular work is planned and discussed. All circular letters from the General Board are carefully considered and items concerning the ward work directly are sent on to the wards by letter. The stake officers visited the mountain settlements once and Dublan three times officially, during the year. The wards are all interested in keeping up-to-date the ward history. Juarez and Dublan both held successful bazaars recently. The object of the Juarez bazaar was to raise funds for the Mesa temple. Home reading is a feature in this stake. Practically every woman in this stake has, during the year, read the Book of Mormon, and most of them have read the Doctrine and Covenants. Conventions and Conferences General Board members visited Relief Society stake conventions and conferences, which were held in all the stakes during 1923, as follows: Alberta—Mrrs. Lotta P. Baxter. Alpine—Mrs. Clarissa S. Williams, Mrs. Barbara H. Richards.. Bannock—Miss Sarah M. McLelland. Bear Lake—Mrs. Child.: Bear River—Mrs. Lotta P. Baxter. Beaver—Mrs. Julia A. Child. Benson—Mrs. Lotta P. Baxter. Big Horn—Mrs, Lotta P. Baxter. Bingham—Mrs, Julia A. Child. Blackfoot—Mrs. Cora L. Bennion. Blaine—Miss Alice L, Reynolds. Boise—Miss Alice L. Reynolds. Box Elder—Mrs. Louise Y. Robison, Mrs. Lotta P. Baxter, Burley—Mrs. Annie Wells Cannon. Cache—Mrs. Amy W. Evans, Mrs. Emma A. Empey. | Carbon—Mrs, Ethel R. Smith. Cassia—Mrs, Amy W. Evans. Cottonwood—Mrs. Clarissa S. Williams, Mrs. Lotta P. Baxter. Curlew—Mrs. -Amy Brown Lyman.. Deseret—Mrs, Julia A. Child. Duchesne—M rs. Amy W. Evans. Emery—Mrs, Julia A. Child. Ensign—Mrs, Clarissa S. Williams, Mrs. Amy Brown Lyman. Julia A. Franklin—Mrs. Amy. W. Evans. Fremont—Miss Sarah M. McLelland. Garfield—Mrs. Evans. Granite— Mrs.. Knight, Mrs. Richards. Gunnison— Mrs. Amy Brown Lyman, Miss Alice L. Reynolds., Hyrum—Mrs. Barbara H. Richards. Idaho— Mrs. Julia A. Lund. Jordan—Mrs. Louise Y. Robison, Mrs. Barbara H. Richards, Juab— Mrs. Julia A. Lund. Juarez—Mrs. Jeannette A. Hyde. Kanab—Mrs. Cora L. Bennion. Lethbridge—Mrs. Lotta P. Baxter. Liberty—Mrs. Louise Y. Robison, Mrs, Amy W. Evans. Logan—Miss Sarah M. McLelland, Mrs. Lotta P. Baxter. Lost River—Mrs. Smith. Los Angeles—Mrs. Amy W. Evans. Malad—Mrs. Jeannette A. Hyde. Maricopa—Mrs. Jeannette A. Hyde. Millard—Mrs. Nion. Amy W. Jennie B, Barbara H. Ethel R. Cora L. BenMoapa—Mrs. Jeannette A. Hyde. 150 Montpelier—Mrs. Annie Wells Cannon. M or gan—Mrs. Knight. Mt. Ogden—Mrs. Louise Y. Robison, Mrs. Julia A. Child, Nebo—Mrs. Clarissa S. Williams, Mrs. Jennie B. Knight. North Davis—Mrs. Clarissa S. Williams, Mrs. Rosannah C. Irvine. North Sanpete—Miss M. McLelland. North Sevier—Mrs. Ethel R. Smith. North Weber—Mrs. Rosannah C. Irvine, Mrs. Louise Y. Robison, Ogden—Mrs. Clarissa S. Williams, Mrs. Amy W. Evans. Oneida—Mrs. Ethel R. Smith. Oquirrh—Mrs. Clarissa S. Williams, Mrs. Annie Wells Cannon. Panguitch—Mrs. Cora L, Bennion. Jennie B. Parowan—Mrs. Barbara' H. Richards, Pioneer— Mrs.Jennie B. Knight, Mrs. Louise Y. Robison. Pocatello— Mrs. Lotta P. Baxter. Portneuf—Miss Sarah M. McLelland. Raft River—Mrs. Lund. Rigby—Mrs. Ethel R. Smith. Roosevelt— Mrs., Amy W. Evans, St. George—Mrs. Cora L. Bennion, St. Johns—Mrs. Amy W, Evans, St. Joseph—Mrs. Jeannette A. H Hyde. Salt Lake—Mrs. Clarissa S. Julia A. Sarah RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Williams, Mrs. Robison. San Juan—Mrs. Rosannah C. Irvine. San Luis—Mrs. Rosannah C. Irvine, Sevier— Mrs. Jennie B. Knight. Shelley—Mrs. Rosannah CC. Irvine. Snowflake— Mrs.,. Amy: W. Evans. South Davis— Mrs. Clarissa S. Louise Y, Williams, Mrs. Julia A. Child. South Sanpete—Mrs. Jeannette A. Hyde. South Sevier—Mrs. Barbara H. Richards. Star Valley—Mrs. Jeannette A. Hyde. Summit—Mrs. Cora L. Bennion. Taylor—Mrs. Lotta P. Baxter. Teton—Mrs. Jennie B. Knight, Tintic— Mrs. Jennie B. Knight. Tooele—Mrs. Ethel R. Smith. Twin Falls—Miss Alice L. Reynolds. Uintah— Mrs. Amy W. Evans. Union—Mrs. Barbara H. Richards.. Utah— Mrs. Clarissa S. Williams, Mrs. Amy B. Lyman. Wasatch—Miss Alice L, Reynolds, Mrs. Barbara H. Richards. Wayne—Miss Alice L. Reynolds. Weber—Mrs. Clarissa S. Williams, Mrs. Ethel R. Smith. Woodruff—Mrs. Cora L. Bennion. Yellowstone— Mrs. Jeannette A. Hyde. Young—Mrs. Rosannah_ C. Irvine. Guide Lessons for May LESSON I Theology Lesson (First Week in May) The Parables of the Savior A. Parable of the Leaven. "Another parable spake he unto them: The kingdom of heaven is like unto leaven, which a woman took, and hid in three measures of meal, till the whole was leavened." Matt. 13:33, The power of a right idea is invincible, whether it is put into the mind of the child or the youth or the adult; silently it works as the leaven in the meal, fulfilling the poetic declaration that: "Truth crushed to earth will rise again The eternal years of God are hers; While error wounded writhes in pain, And dies amid her worshipers." Overcome Evil With Good.—The idea contained in this gem of thought is leaven that is working in the mind of the individual, in the mind of the nation, in the mind of the world. It will work on until the whole is leavened. The universal uplift and the triumph of this idea is inevitable. As an apt illustration of the operation of faith leaven in the mind of a child, the student is cited to a poem, The Joyful Truth, in the February issue of the Relief Society Magazine. B. The Hidden Treasure. "Again, the kingdom of heaven is like unto a treasure hid in a field; the which when a man hath found, he hideth, and for joy thereof goeth and selleth all that he hath, and buyeth that field." This parable is recorded by Matthew only, 13:44, This parable seemingly has one great object, the teaching of the paramount value of the kingdom of God. It is not a lesson in ethics, but one in the choice of values. The finding of the treasure was a source of joy, and the appreciation of the value awakens in the finder a determination to have legal possession of it even at the cost of all his previous possessions, Almost universally, converts to the gospel gladly set aside their old notions, be they ever so dear, to obtain the blessings of the Kingdom of Heaven; and moreover, they will sacrifice all. Earthly possessions if necessary, and their experience is that they 152 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE find the highest joy in this one possession—the gospel with its testimony and privileges. What are dollars and cents to the Latter-day Saint father and mother in comparison to missionary experiences for their boy and girl? All the other members of the family are willing to forego the comforts of life for the brother or sister to pass on in the kingdom, and the young man willingly interrupts a career "to be about his Father's business." All who share in these sacrifices are sharers in the purchase of the field where the hidden treasure is. To have the field of labor offered by the church is to own the hidden treasurer. Service in the kingdom makes us a part of the kingdom, and the kingdom a part of us; through it we are in the kingdom and the kingdom in us. The Parable of the Pearl of Great Price "Again, the kingdom of heaven is like unto a merchantman seeking goodly pearls; who, when he had found one pearl of great price, went and sold all that he had, and bought it." Matt. 13:45-46. "In our own country we generally estimate the amount of a man's wealth by the size of his bank account, by the extensive-. Ness of his landed property, the sort of a house he lives in, and the manner in which he extends his hospitalities or his entertainments. In our Lord's time and country a different standard obtained. There you could not always tell how much a man was worth by looking at his clothes or at the house he lived in. You enter a house of clay walls and a roof thatched with straw or reeds, you find an ill-dressed. Man sitting there amid the coarsest furniture on a piece of carpet which forms his seat by day and bed by night; and yet that man may be the wealthiest person you have ever seen. He has his wealth invested in jewels, and for a very good reason. In oriental countries sudden invasions often take place and great rebellions and revolutions frequently arise where cruel tyrants oppress their people; so in order that a man's wealth may be more easily hidden, or securely removed in case of flight, it is in most cases put into the shape of jewels. In this form, and carried about the person or hid in the tresses of a woman's hair, great fortunes have often been carried from place to place in the East. If we remember this fact it will help us to understand the value which God puts upon his people in calling them his jewels and to see the full meaning of the figure which Jesus used to represent the blessings of his salvation, as one 'pearl of great price,' which all other property and jewels should be sold to obtain." Hollman's Bible Commentary. This parable differs from the parable of the hidden treasure GUIDE LESSONS 153 in that the treasure seeker was prospecting in the open field of nature, in the one instance; while in the other instance the man was looking for treasures previously possessed by some one else. Both parables teach the lesson that the Kingdom of God cannot be obtained either by partial payment or half-heartedness. The price in both cases is the giving up of one's whole self. In this parable the merchantman has been a dealer in gems, in search of goodly pearls. The price of the pearl is all the other pearls; it is the all of the great and the all of the small alike, and nothing less and nothing more. The purchase of this pearl can not be made through any sort of an Ananias and Sapphira deal. The first great essential is honesty of heart, a yearning from within, proclaiming the necessity for endlessness of existence, and then he reads, "that whosoever believeth in him should not perish, but have everlasting life." John 3:16, And then there comes to him the inspiration of the Almighty, declaring in favor of the yearning within and in favor of the words of Christ. The truth-seeker places a higher value on the divine declaration than he does on the theoretical findings and willingly gives them all for the revelations of God, attested by his individual testimony. 1. Quote Lowell on the power of truth as a leavening force. 2, Wherein is the overcoming of evil with good the kingdom of heaven in action? 3. Read in the class the poem that illustrates the planting of faith leaven in the mind of the child. 4. What is a joyous sacrifice? Illustrate.. 5. Read or relate the story of Ananias and Sapphira. 6. What is the most important lesson to be learned by the parable of the hidden treasure? LESSON II Work and Business (Second Week in May) 154 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE LESSON III Literature (Third week in May) JAMEs Russell Lowely (Continued) We have read that the great educator, Horace Mann, "'championed the sacreligious use of Mr. Auburn cemetery, where persons were buried with no reference to which way they would face | when Gabriel blows his trumpet." This story reminds us of the distance between our time and the time when devout and sincere persons argued over trifles of that sort. It also introduces to us the name of a cemetery a short distance from the heart of Cambridge, Massachusetts, where many persons of distinct achievement, in many lines, have found a last resting place. Here Longfellow and Lowell are buried, and also the great actor, Edwin Booth. Within the city of Cambridge, few places have attracted as much attention as have the homes of Longfellow and Lowell. Already, in our lesson on Longfellow, we have devoted some space to the old Cragie house where the author of Paul Revere's Ride found a home. This home had been purchased from its owner for Longfellow. Lowell occupied the ancestral home of the Lowells, in Cambridge. In the year 1904, it was our good fortune to visit the Lowell home, a frame house of three stories in height, painted buff, with windows and doors of white. On the top story there were three windows, as also on the second story, but the third story contained a beautiful, old-fashioned arched door between the two windows. The grounds were attractive in the highest degree, containing a goodly number of those lovely elms which have been for many years the pride of New England, and perhaps somewhat especially of Cambridge. Grass, as well as flowers, that were often made to bloom in the poet's verses, were there in great abundance. The care-taker made us very much at home, and as we left he picked a fringed gentian and presented it to us—the little gentian of the poet's verses. By the time you come to this lesson, the dandelion will be in bloom. Place on the stand, if possible, a bunch of dandelions and read to the class Lowell's famous lines to the dandelion. You will find no better illustration in literature of the ability of a great mind and a great heart to find beauty in the commonest things of nature. In the year 1847, the year that the pioneers entered the Salt Lake Valley, Lowell parted with his first child, a little girl called Blanche. In the year 1849, he stood in his home looking out of the window, across to Mt. Auburn cemetery, on a typical winter day GUIDE LESSONS 155 in New England. With the thought of the little grave covered with snow, he wrote the following lines: "The snow had begun in the gloaming, _ And busily all the night Had been heaping field and highway With a silence deep and white. Every pine and fir and hemlock Wore ermine too dear for an earl, And the poorest twig on the elm-tree Was egded inch deep with pearl. From sheds new-roofed with Carrara Came Chanticleer's muffled crow, The stiff rails were softened to swan's-down, And still fluttered down the snow. I stood and watched by the window The noiseless work of the sky, And the sudden flurries of snow-birds, Like brown: leaves whirling by. I thought of a mound in sweet Auburn Where a little headstone stood; How the flakes were folding it gently, ' As did robins the babes in the wood. Up spoke our own little Mabel, Saying, "Father, who makes it snow?" And I told of the good All-Father Who cares for us here below. Again I looked at the snow-fall, And thought of the leaden sky That arched o'er our first great sorrow, When that mound was heaped so high. I remembered the gradual patience That fell from that cloud like snow, Flake by flake, healing and hiding The scar that renewed our woe. And again to the child I whispered, "The snow that husheth all, Darling, the merciful Father Alone can make it fall!" Then, with eyes that saw not, I kissed her; And she, kissing back, could not know 'That my kiss was given to her sister, Folded close under deepening snow." GUIDE LESSONS Pope's "Dunciad." It is a review full of fun touching the leading American authors of the day, but beneath it is the sober judgment of a critic whose estimate of the poets has been established as the years have gone on. Al couplet referring to Edgar Allen Poe is as follows: "There comes Poe, with his Raven, like Barnaby Rudge, Three-fifths of him genius, and two-fifths sheer fudge." His reference to William Cullen Bryant, suggests Bryant's dignity and stately reserve. He says: "If he stir you at all, it is just, on my soul, Like being stirred up with the very North Pole." After he had paid his compliments to his colleagues, ie turned to himself and gives us an estimate of his own work which is surprisingly true to the general estimate of him: "There is Lowell, who's striving Paranassus to climb- With a whole bale of isms tied together with rime; He might get on alone, spite of bramble and boulders, But he can't with that bundle he has on his shoulders; The top of the hill he will ne'er come nigh reaching, Till he learns the distinction 'twixt singing and preaching; His lyre has some chords that would ring pretty well, But he'd rather by half make a drum of the shell, And rattle away till he's old as Methusalem, At the head of a march to the last New Jerusalem." The "Biglow Papers" were exceedingly popular in Lowell's day and people watched as eagerly and read as persistently Lowell's Biglow Papers' as we read the story of "The Gumps" and the doings of "Mutt and Jeff" today. They appeal to the same strain of humor in our nature. Pancoast says that Lowell could be "nobly strenuous or inimitably humorous." A good example of this latter fact is found in the "Biglow Papers," and as we think Mr, Pancoast's discussion of these papers is exceptionally good, we include what he says in the lesson. "Taken as a whole, the 'Biglow Papers' form one of our most noteworthy contributions to literature. It is often said, and quite truly, that no other country but New England could have produced them. Hawthorne embodies the Puritan spirit: Lowell here brings us face to face with the every-day Yankee, in undeniable flesh and blood. Lowell loved the flavor of the common speech, and by a single effort he has lifted the twang, the drawl, the quaint phrases of the down-east countryman, into literature. From this aspect the 'Biglow Papers' are local; but they are 158 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE much more—they are among our few distinctly national poems, more fully and truly American than 'Hiawatha' or "The Courtship of Miles Standish.” While they represent New England, they also represent much that is best in the American people—the clear-sightedness, the shrewd humor, the essential rightness on 'great moral issues, which are deep-seated in our democracy. Lowell might have expressed the views advanced in the 'Biglow Papers' in that scholarly phrase or that elevated verse which would have been his own natural medium, but he believed that the moral sense of the plain average American man was sound and true; and so, instead of speaking for himself individually, in his. Own way, he instinctively chose to speak as a plain man of the people, in homely, pithy phrase. Hence we have in the '"Biglow Papers' not the scholar writing from his library, but the voice of the nation. As a work of art the poem holds a high and distinctively unique place among the satires of the language, differing widely in form and spirit from the satiric masterpieces of Dryden, Pope, Butler, or Byron. The mixture of humor and deadly earnest is a national trait, and the "Biglow Papers' differ from many English satires in mingling wit and absurdity with a genuine poetic beauty and a spirit of the intensest patriotism." QUESTIONS AND PROBLEMS 1. Lowell's poem, "To a Dandelion" will be found in any complete edition of Lowell's poems, and also on page 162, this magazine. Read it and see if the poem succeeds in making the flower mean more to you than it ever has meant before. 2. What does Lowell mean when he speaks of the noiseless work of the sky? 3. List the various objects to which Lowell has compared snow. Is he happy in his comparisons and metaphors? 4. Where was the old elm tree located with reference to Harvard University?. 5. What does Lowell mean when he says that three-fifths of Poe's Raven is genius and the other two-fifths sheer fudge? 6. Do you think the emotions Lowell experienced, while writing "The First Snow Fall' have frequently been duplicated in the experiences of men and women? 7. 'We should like the teacher to select a passage from the Biglow Papers that she thinks both humorous and interesting and read it to the class, GUIDE LESSONS 159 LESSON IV Social Service (Fourth Week in May) STUDYING A SOCIAL PROBLEM It is usually some acute social problem that makes a person turn to a friend or agency for help. It may be illness, or the loss of a job. Or perhaps a child has had difficulty in school, or with the truant officer, or with the juvenile court. If parents are unable to meet the difficulties alone, if the strain of insufficient finances, or of ill health, or of behavior problems seem too complex to be dealt with unaided, they turn, with trust and hope, to some friend, or relative, or church, or agency for assistance and guidance. It is extremely important that the advice and assistance given a person in trouble, be of a sound and helpful nature. To act as an adviser and benefactor is a responsible undertaking. To be able to give intelligent advice about human problems requires an understanding of human nature, of social affairs and situations, and their various implications. There is a great danger that the advice and help given a person in distress may be of a superficial nature. For instance,. A person may be in financial straits because he is out of work. The casual adviser would perhaps either help him find a job, or give him assistance until he secured work.. But such a treatment might only touch the surface of the person's difficulty. The condition of unemployment might not be the real problem. It might only be a symptom of or an index to difficulties much deeper rooted. Is the man's unemployment due to unsatisfactory industrial conditions? Is he engaged in seasonal occupation, that always entails a yearly period of unemployment? Or are the causes of a personal nature? Ill health may have forced him to abandon his usual trade, and until his health is regained, he will necessarily be somewhat of an industrial misfit. He may have struggled for years at some work for which he is unfitted, and his work history might show a series. Of failures. Perhaps his emotional instability, or his personal habits make permanent employment difficult. To assist a man, intelligently, to adjust industrially, much must be known of his. Habits, his aptitudes, his training and his work history. His — own story, his family's opinion, and his former employers' reports. Are all significant in attempting to arrive at a satisfactory adjustment. An insight into an individual's work history often reveals 160. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE other undesirable social situations. A family, deprived periodically, or for a continued term, of a sufficient income, must frequently lower its standards. In practicing certain economies, the family budget for housing, food, clothing, may have dropped below the accepted social standard. Recreational and educational opportunities may have been curtailed. Physical examinations, dental work, and perhaps minor operations, may have been entirely neglected. Because social problems are so closely related and interwoven, the nature of the first appeal of a person in trouble, does not always indicate the real difficulties to be treated. The present, acute problem of course, needs attention, but merely to pay a family's rent on rent day, or to send a doctor for which the family cannot pay, or to provide food when there is actual want, does not penetrate the real difficulty. It may be necessary for an individual or a family to accept material things—perhaps for a long time. But the assistance that is constructive and kindly and intelligent is of a more understanding character than the mere supplying of material wants. The real adviser to a family in difficulty is one who is concerned about the complete growth of the family as a unit, and of each of its members. The income must be studied and measured, and supplemented if. Necessary. If necessary and possible, the earning power of the family should be increased, by locating more suitable occupations, or perhaps even by additional training. The health and school history of each child should be watched and supervised, and the essentials that make for normal child growth should not be denied any child because of the unfortunate circumstances of his parents, All the members of the family should have opportunity to participate in the community or religious activities of their group. Such an extensive contact with a family, and such inclusive interest and comprehensive supervision cannot be accomplished in a moment. To become a factor and a real friend and adviser requires hours of patient service, and a human interest that is both deep and understanding. Besides, an intimate knowledge of the activities, accomplishments, hopes, friends, backgrounds, and possibilities of each member of the group is needed.. An insight into a family's difficulties and possibilities is possible only when certain concrete facts of health, ages, school records, training, attainments, standards, and work history are understood. This intimate understanding and contact is possible only when the person in difficulty learns to depend and trust completely the motives and sincerity of the friend and benefactor.; Reference: Dr. Edward T. Devine's Normal Life, pages 93-97. GUIDE LESSONS 3 ~ 161 QUESTIONS AND PROBLEMS 1. Discuss the relation between health and employment. Explain how each causes the other. 2. What happens to a family's standard through a prolonged period of unemployment, and subsequent lack of income? 3. Explain how material distress is only a symptom of other. Social difficulties. 4, Why is intelligent help impossible without a knowledge of personal and intimate facts of the difficulty? 5, Why should all such information be considered sacred and confidential? 6. Show why an interested study of a family makes for greater trust and friendliness on the part of the person in trouble. TEACHERS' TOPIC FOR MAY THE GOSPEL IN THE HOME Reverence "Ye shall keep my Sabbaths, and reverence my sanctuary: I am the Lord." Lev. 19:30. A. Discuss keeping the Sabbath and proper respect for holy places, temples, houses of worship. B. Refer to the holidays of the month: Mother's Day and Decoration Day. C. Remember these days with due solemnity, not feasting and rejoicing. Sweet mothers! As they pass one sees again Old. Garden walks, old roses, and old loves. More and more does one see and feel that all problems, commercial, national, international, of war and peace, must be settled by love, love for men and love for God—settled by affection, by duties and by rights—Charles F, Thwing. To the Dandelion By James Russell Lowell Dear common flower, that grow'st beside the way, Fringing the dusty road with harmless gold, First pledge of blithesome May, Which children pluck, and, full of pride, uphold, High-hearted buccaneers, joyed that they An Eldorado in the grass have found, Which not the rich earth's ample round May match in wealth, thou art more dear to me Than all the prouder summerblooms may be. Gold such as thine ne'er drew the Spanish prow Through the primeval hush of 'Indian seas, Nor wrinkled the lean brow Of age, to rob the lover's heart of ease; "Tis the Spring's largess, which she scatters now To rich and poor alike, with lavish hand, Though most hearts never understand To take it at God's value, but pass by The offered wealth with unrewarded eye., 'Thow art my tropics and mine Italy; To look at thee unlocks a warmer clime; 'The eyes thou givest me Are in the heart, and heed not space or time: in mid June the goldencuirassed bee Feels' a more summer-like warm ravishment In the white lily's breezy tent, His Not when first From the dark green thy yellow circles burst. Then think I of deep shadows on the grass, Of meadows where in sun the cattle graze, Where, as the breezes pass, The gleaming rushes lean a thousand ways, Of leaves that slumber in a cloudy mass, Or whiten: in the wind, of waters blue That from the distance sparkle through Some woodland gap, and of a sky above, Where one white cloud like a stray lamb doth move. My childhood's earliest thoughts are linked with thee; The sight of thee calls 'back the robin's song, Who, from the dark old tree | Beside the door, sang clearly all day long, And I, secure in childish piety, Listened as if I heard an angel sing With news from heaven, which he could bring Fresh every day to my untainted ears When birds and flowers and I were happy peers. How like a prodigal doth nature seem, When thou, for all thy gold, so common art! Thou teachest me to deem More sacredly of every human heart, Since each reflects scanty gleam Of heaven, and could some wondrous secret show, Did we but pay the love we owe, And with a child's undoubting wisdom look On all these living pages of God's book. In joy its i" Plan now to pursue courses in your specialty under eminent scholars from America's great colleges and universities. The names at the right—the list reads like a page from the Truly an "all-star" faculty, secured after two hall of fame. A NATIONAL Summer School years of negotiating. Will serve for entire six weeks. Summer Quarter—June 9 to Aug. 29 Graduate or under-graduate credit in Education and Psychology, History, Geology and Physical Geography, Botany, Physical and Health Education, Recreational Leadership,.. Economics, Sociology, English and Literature. Courses specially arranged for certification of teachers in service or those preparing for teaching. Advanced and popular courses. First Term: June 9 to July 18 Second Term: July 21 to Aug. 29 Fuition: $25 for 6 or 12 weeks - Write for Full Particulars Scan Zoology, SPECIAL TEACHING FACULTY Prof, Allee, Zoology, University of Chicago. Dr. Angell, Recreational Leadership, Yale, Harvard. Prof. Blackwelder, Geology, Stanford. Prof. Branson, Rural University of N. C Prof. Cowles, Botany, of Chicago. Prof. Franzen, Education, University of California. Prof. Knappen, Geology, University of Kansas. Prof. Merk, History, Harvard. Dr. McLain, Health Education, Detroit. Prof. McCollum, Human Nutrition, Johns Hopkins. Prof. Reed, Agricultural Engineering, Ohio State U. Prof. Thorndike, Psychology and Education, Columbia. Prof. Turner, History, Harvard. Dr. Wood, Physical and Health Education, Columbia. SPECIAL LECTURERS Prof. John Adams, London. W. G. Anderson, Liberty Hyde Bailey, David Starr Jordan, Prof. Shailer Matthews, Dr. E. A. Steiner, Dr. A. E. Winship. Sociology, University of Utah Agricultural College Logan Utah Compare the Pages of the Deseret News with those of any other paper. Notice that while the paper is clean and fit for any child to read it is also interesting and informative in the highest sense—And you get "TODAY'S NEWS TODAY" RECOMMENDED BY PATRONS. REFERENCES FURNISHED Made especially for L. D. S. Churches, and successfully used in Utah and Intermountain region, also in all Missions in the United States, Europe, and Pacific Islands. Basic metal, Nickel Silver, heavily plated with Solid Silver. SIMPLE, SANITARY, DURABLE Satisfaction guaranteed. Inquiries cheerfully answered THE LATEST ACKNOWLEDGEMENT Bishop's Office, Bern, Idaho, May 2, 1921. "J am in receipt of the Individual Sacrament Set, consisting of four trays and the proper number of glasses. "Everything arrived in good condition. We are very pleased with it. I take this occasion to thank you for your kindness." BUREAU OF INFORMATION Temple Block Salt Lake City  Glazier and Taylor y 33 EAST BROADWAY A Store Dealing in Quality Hosiery and Underwear Exclusively Heavy Silk Full-Fashioned, all colors A wonderful hose for wear Per Pair. $2.00 Box of Three Pairs 5.75 Silk Semi-Fashioned, all colors, beautiful and durable Per Pair: $1.50 Box of Three Pair. $4.25. Silk with Extra Stretch Elastic the Comfort Stocking Per pair $4.75 Pure Silk, Semi-Fashioned, very durable All Colors Per. Pair.: $1.05 Box of Three Pairs. $3.00 MAIL ORDERS PREPAID CENTURY PRINTING CO. 231-35 Edison Street, Salt Lake City, Utah. Catalogs, Color-Work, Programs, Publications, Commercial forms. Service is Our Motto. Our Phone, Was. 1801. THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE desires to obtain the following numbers of the magazine: 13 February, 1923 numbers 1 February, 1921 - 13 March, 1923 " 1 March, 1921 3 April, 1919 " 1 August, 1921 2 1 September, 1920 4 1 October, 1921. 1 January, 1921 Please notify this office how many you can furnish of each before sending them in. We pay 20c per copy.. To Our Magazine Subscribers We call your attention to the very high class firms who advertise in the Magazine, and ask, whenever possible, to give them your loyal support and_patronage. Also kindly mention having read their advertisement in the Magazine. We hope by your assistance to prove our value as a medium through which to advertise. Magazine Management. Always Open Se Season for Pumpkin Pie! And it’s easily made with Pierce’s pumpkin A Holiday Treat All cooked, ready for use in your favorite recipe—it makes the most appetizing pie imaginable, Everlastingly backed by THE UTAH CANNING CO., Ogden. Since 1888  —— To the and Friends of the Magazine who are Taking Subscriptions: It was eee ously decided at the October Conference by the officers and members present rather than raise the price of the magazine, we would ask the agents and friends for the present to secure subscriptions without the customary 10 per cent discount. We call your attention to the fact that many of the subscriptions received so far have had the percentage deducted, which is not in accordance with the general understanding of the Magazine management and officers present at the conference. Will you kindly give this matter your attention and give these facts as wide publicity as possible in order that the subscriptions which we receive hereafter, will be accompanied with the full amount of the price of 'the magazine, which is $1.00. R. Sincerely, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. The finest quality of Olive Oil from selected Olives. Its purity, freshness and flavor make it ideal for salads: and dressings. High in food value. Preferred for other uses because of its absolute purity. Ask for the Blue Pine Brand. Other BLUE PINE PRODUCTS VOL. XI APRIL, 1924 NO. 4 CONTENTS An April Sunset Frontispiece, I Know How the Mother of Lazarus Felt Annie Pike Greenwood 163, Orson F. Whitney 165 Editorial—Phoebe Nourse Donated the first Money for a National Cathedral in Washington Six Generations in the Church "Two 'Surveys" A Perfect Day Simple Trimming for Summer Dresses Violet Elliott 178: Wisdom of the Ancients Reflected in our Modern Salads Elizabeth Cannon 183 The Scent of the Hyacinth Elizabeth Cannon Porter 185 Dr. McCollum Coming to Utah Carrie Castle Dogier 187 Something to Think About Heber J. Sears M. D. 191 Amy Brown Lyman 195 201 Organ of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints Room 20 Bishop's Bldg. Salt Lake City, Utah  $1.00 a Year—Single Copy, 10c Canada and Foreign, $1.25 a Year—l5c Single Copy Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah Salesmen to represent an L. D. S. Firm in selling knit goods direct to the public in all states. Liberal Commission and low prices coupled with Al quality. HOME PIONEER KNITTING FACTORY 438 East 7th South Salt Lake City, Utah Ladies of the Relief Society and Other Organizations Order your flowers from the Ideal Floral Company Fresh Cut Flowers Every Morning 38 South Main Phone Wasatch 3414 Night Phone Hyland 5303-W Temple and Burial Clothes Complete Suits for Men and Women Variety of Grades and Prices Prompt and Careful Attention to Mail-Telephone-Telegraph Orders Open Daily, 9 a.m.-5p.m. General Board Relief Society 23 Bishop's Building SALT LAKE CITY Salt Lake City, Utah Make A Health Burial Garden Clothes A vegetable Garden. A vegetable garden is a vitally important factor to the health of the entire family. Science has discovered those necessary vitamines are found chiefly in vegetables. Our Seed and Nursery Guide Book will help you in planning both Vegetable Guide Book will help you in planning both the Vegetable and Flower Garden. Write for Free Copy Today Porter-Walton Salt Lake City When writing for copy mention Relief Society Company A Gift for Graduation ~~ W. M. McCONAHAY THE JEWELER Salt Lake City, Utah When Shopping Mention Relief Society Magazine 'This is Your Privilege To— Visit the Adult Work Shop for the Blind, 120 East 1st South, Old City Hall, and see the blind adults in action making carpets, rugs, couch covers, pillow tops, clothes bags, and many other useful articles. By buying their products, we are making it possible for the Blind to support themselves, thus bringing happiness and contentment into their lives. It is the duty of those who can see, to make it possible for these ambitious and industrious people to live and be happy. A visit to the shop will convince you that you can be of great assistance to them by creating a market for the things they produce. Phone Hy. 1658-R. From 8 a. M. To 12 m 64 So. Main Phone Was. 1821 IMPROVED L. D. S. GARMENTS The "Temple Brand" garments are handled only by leading dealers, if you cannot get just what you want select it from this list and send order direct to us. We prepay postage to all parts of the United States. Samples submitted on request. GARMENTS WITH STRINGS Style. Price Style Price
 No. 75 Med. Heavy Cotton. $2.50
No. 15 Extra Spe. Flat Weave 1.50 
No 3 Domestic Lisle 1.75 
No. 25 Double Back Lt. Wt. 1.85 
NEW STYLE WITH BUTTONS AND LONG OR SHORT SLEEVES
For Ladies: Style  Price:
No. 1 Flat Weave Cot..$.95. 
Super No. 2 Ribbed super cot 1.25: 
No, 815 Flat weave...................1.50 
No. 803 Ribbed Lt. Wte........... 1.65 
No. 850 Lisle Gause................ 2.50.
No. 862 Mere. Gause Lt. Wt... 2.75.
 For Men: Style: Price 
No. 903 Ribbed Lt. Wt.............$1.75 
No. 950 Lisle Lt. Wt................... 2.75 
No. 915 Flat Weave................ 1.75 
No. 925 Ribbed Med. Wt....... 2.00 
No. 975 Med. Heavy Cot......... 2.25 
No. 9175 Med. Half Wool...... 3.50 
AGENT'S COMMISSION—BUY DIRECT FROM FACTORY Salt Lake Knitting Store 70 Main Street Salt Lake City, Utah In sending orders mention Magazine 4J Ask your dealer for Z. C. M. I. Factory Made Kiddies' Allovers DUTCH CUT They are the famous Mountaineer Brand in dark blue, light blue, striped and khaki Mothers—they are just what you need for the little tots—and the kiddies like them too I Know How the Mother of Lazarus Felt An Easter Poem By Anne Pike Greenwood I know how the mother of Lazarus felt; Last night when I woke, the babe at my side Lay still, strangely still—I felt his cold hands, And his little cold feet, and his cheek, marble-cold. I lifted 'his body, so limp in my arms. "My baby! My baby! My baby!" I cried. I shook him in frenzy of hope he might wake; My tongue dried in fear, my heart ceased to beat. The household came rushing, white-visaged, distraught. And then, as the first light was flickering up, He whimpered, he struggled, the babe at my breast— O God! In that moment all heaven were mine! I know how the mother of Lazarus felt. And so all day long I watch him at play; I beg him for kisses, and fondle him close; The cup that he broke, the crumbs that he strewed, The milk overturned, the magazine torn,— How can I scold him and think of last night When lifeless he seemed to lie limp in my arms? How easy it is to forgive and caress When I think, what if this were his burial ay? Oh, I know how the mother of Lazarus felt! AN APRIL SUNSET IN A UTAH MAPLE FOREST \ ' THE Relief Society Magazine VolXl.-.... APRIL,1924 = =~ - # No4 Two Great Educators Orson F. Whitney In the City Cemetery, where I sometimes ramble, communing with my thoughts and reviving memories of the sainted dead, there are two monuments that I never pass without pausing to read the epitaphs engraved thereon. One of them follows: KARL G. MAESER EreEcTED By His PupPILs Very simple, and withal very telling—a volume in seven words. No date or place of birth or of death—no attempt to tell upon cold granite the story of a life whose beneficent achievements are written imperishably upon the warm, pulsating 'hearts of thousands of living men and women—aye, thousands upon thousands, living and dead, who owned and still own him as their teacher. —"the friend To whom the shadows of far years extend"; and who will ever hold him in affectionate remembrance for what he did for them while they were pupils under his watchcare. The other stone is more explicit. It bears this inscription: DR. JOHN R. PARK Born ln TiFFIN, Ou10, May 7, 1833 Diep lN SALT LAKE City, SEPT. 30, 1900 PRESIDENT OF THE UNIVERSITY OF UTAH 1869-1892 Srate SUPERINTENDENT OF PusLic INSTRUCTION IN UTAH 1895 To THE DAY OF HIS DEATH I knew both these men, and was a student under one of them long before the University of Utah grew out of the University of 166 "RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Deseret, and when, in lieu of the group of stately buildings adorning the present commanding site, it occupied by permission the old Council House which stood, until accidentally destroyed by fire, upon the now busy commercial corner where the Deseret News has its home. Dr. Park was president of the University and its leading preceptor at that time. American-born, a descendant of Scotch and Franco-German forebears, he had been educated in the district schools and colleges of his native state and was a medical graduate of the University of the City of New York. He 'had practiced medicine, taught school, and kept store in Ohio, before coming to Utah, in 1861. He came again in 1864, returning from an extended tour of the Pacific coast. During both those years he taught school in Draper, where he embraced the "Mormon" faith. He continued to reside there until the spring of 1869, when he was sent for by the Board of Regents of the Deseret University, who had elected him president of that institution. Accepting the honor conferred, he removed at once to Salt Lake City. It was a turning point in the troubled career of Utah's '"'Parent School." Opening in November, 1850, in less than two years, owing to scant means and limited patronage, it closed its doors, discontinued the department of instruction, and fell into a Rip Van Winkle sleep of nearly twenty years. It was revived as a commercial school in 1867, but the real awakening came with the advent of Dr. Park. He organized the University upon a basis of classical, scientific and normal instruction, adapted to the practical needs of the Territory—now State—and launched it upon its new career. His success was marked and immediate, and to the impetus given the cause of education, then and later, by his labors in and out of the University, is largely due the proud status of that now thriving institution, and the existence of Utah's excellent public school system. The University had its trials even with Dr. Park at the helm. Poor and homeless, it seemed fainting at times and about to succumb, but it struggled on, determined to succeed, and finally stood with firm feet upon the summit of its present prosperity. Dr. Park enjoyed a popularity that falls to the lot of few men so placed. His students loved him as Napoleon's "Old Guard" loved their "Little Corporal;" and he also possessed the confidence. And esteem of the chancellor and regents and his fellow members of the faculty. His method of instruction was plain, simple and effective. He could invest the driest subject with a fascinating charm, could awaken interest in the dullest mind, and hold the attention of the most frivolous. It was said of Gladstone, that master of oratory, that 'he "could make pippins and cheese interesting and tea serious." Dr. Park, though not an orator, wielded TWO GREAT EDUCATORS 167 a similar power in the class-room. Under his magnetic tutelage, mathematics became a joy, grammar and rhetoric a delightful dream.. Governing less by rule than by personal influence, he nevertheless imposed strict and wholesome regulations, and required that they be respected and obeyed. By a look he could command silence, and 'had but to speak in his low, earnest tone, and he made an impression as lasting as memory itself. Dignified, but never haughty, affable and condescending, he preserved an unbroken equanimity. Stern when necessary, he was never a scold; and though mirthful betimes, would never indulge in excessive levity. If a student whispered or made any noise that disturbed the class he was instructing, he would stop the recitation and fix a reproving eye upon the offender, who, as his voice rose higher and higher amidst a general stillness that grew deeper and deeper, would soon find himself the cynosure of all eyes and the most embarrassed and best punished pupil in the school. After frowning for some moments at the humiliated and by that time thoroughly penitent transgressor, the Doctor, without a word of reproof, would resume the recitation, as if nothing had happened. If this method failed to impress—though I never knew it to fail—or if the offense was something more serious, a quiet summons to the Doctor's office, and a kind, but earnest admonition appealing to the better nature of the breaker of rules would prove a sufficient corrective. In delivering his instructions, Dr. Park would first remind his class that "attention is the mother of memory." He would then proceed with the lesson, using the simplest terms, never playing the pedant; never shooting over the heads of his students or smothering his ideas in big words and pompous rhetoric; but with Dickens-like simplicity and purity of diction, coming down to the level of his hearers and teaching so that all could understand. While not religious, in the sense of being a regular meetinggoer, Dr. Park was a moral man. A vulgar word, an unchaste allusion, any indecent expression uttered in his presence, was sure to meet with his reproof—administered in such a way, however, that the guilty one could but feel grateful for the correction. After twenty-three years of presidency over the University, Dr. Park, owing to failing health, retired; but three years later—Utah being about to enter the Union, and the election of state officers then pending—he let his name be placed upon the Republican ticket, for State Superintendent of Public Instruction. Dr. Maeser's name was on the Democratic ticket as a candidate for the same office. It was a Republican year, and Dr. Park was elected, and held the position during the last five years of his life. After leaving the University, he made large gifts of books to 168 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE its library, and collections to its museum, and in various ways manifested an abiding interest in its welfare. He regarded it as his child—and child of him it virtually was, for he had adopted it in its childhood and reared it to maturity. At his death he made it his sole heir, bequeathing to it all his property. Provident and well-to-do, having an estate of about forty-five thousand dollars, 'he desired the institution whose long and arduous struggles he had witnessed, to profit by his death as it had profited by his life. Such was Dr. John R. Park, as I knew him. Dr. Maeser was as unlike Dr. Park as the Church is unlike the State, as the mountain torrent is unlike the meadow brook. They differed widely, not only in appearance, but in manner, method, and speech. Dr. Park, as I have said, was not a religious man—not deeply so at all events. The schoolhouse was his temple and pedagogy, not preaching, his medium for imparting knowledge. Dr. Maeser was intensely religious—though at one time he knew it not. He taught religion in school and out, wherever it was lawfully permissible. 'A forceful orator, eloquent and convincing, he became a zealous and successful missionary. Dr. Park stood for secular education, the training of the mental and physical in man. Dr. Maeser stood for all this and more. His educational ideals passed over the threshold of Time and strode down the halls of Eternity. With a full appreciation of the knowledge that makes men and women capable and skillful in this life, he prized and taught others to prize, above all, the knowledge that maketh wise unto salvation. How to make a living here—how to solve life's every-day problems, was of course important; but how to grapple successfully with the mightier problems of the Great Hereafter—how to store up treasures in heaven and lay hold upon eternal life, was far more consequential in the eyes of Karl G. Maeser. Education meant to him the leading out of all the latent potential powers of the individual— the training to perfection of every divine attribute in man, as the child of God and as a god himself in embryo. He stood for the full and complete development of the soul—body and spirit combined—mental, physical, moral and spiritual education—the education contemplated and jnculcated by the Gospel of Jesus Christ. To the gospel Dr. Maeser owed much—owed everything; for it found him a skeptic and made of him a devotee—a skeptic as tc man-made creeds and religions; a devotee of heaven-revealed eternal truth. It enriched his thoughts, expanded his views, and elevated his ideals—in short, gave him the development that the gospel alone can give. Conversion came to this man while he was a preceptor in Dresden, the capitol of Saxony. He was a typical German, proud TWO GREAT EDUCATORS —. 169 of his nationality, and a worthy representative of the best traditions of the-fatherland. The son of an artist employed in the famous Dresden china-works at Meissen, he was born in that town January 16, 1828. He received his first training in the public schools of Meissen, and at twenty was graduated from the School Teachers Seminary in Dresden. After some experience as a private tutor in Bohemia, and later as a teacher in one of Dresden's large city schools, he became chief preceptor in the Budig Institute, also in Dresden. It was about this time that he began to take an interest in "Mormonism," which was to furnish the field in which he was destined to accomplish his greatest work and win undying fame. Vague rumors concerning the "Mormons" and their persecutions had reached him in his childhood, when a published account of the mobbings and drivings of the Saints, accompanied by pictorial illustrations, came under his casual notice. Now the spirit of inquiry rested upon him, and 'he sought for further information. Having obtained the address of Elder Daniel Tyler, who was presiding over the Saints in Switzerland, he wrote to him inquiring about the Church and its doctrines. Elder Tyler sent him some © gospel pamphlets—so poorly translated as to provoke the mirth of the young pedagogue and his boon companion, Edward Schoenfeld, who read them with him. Schoenfeld was also a teacher. In the Dresden schools, and like his friend Maeser, a skeptic, steering by the light of science and philosophy, in preference to the flickering, uncertain light of modern Christianity. 'As the two young men continued to read those humble pamphlets, a great change came over them. They became interested in the matter, ignoring the manner of its presentation, and when Elder Tyler wrote again, proposing to send a missionary to Dresden, and asking how such a one should introduce himself in a | land where there was no religious liberty, they answered with pleased alacrity, "Let him come as a private instructor." This suggestion, forwarded to Liverpool, the headquarters of the European mission, was at once acted upon. President Franklin D. Richards sent Elder William Budge to introduce the gospel in the kingdom of Saxony. Elder Budge began his labors in Dresden as a private tutor in the home of Dr. Maeser, teaching him and his family, with a few friends, the doctrines of ""Mormonism"—the principles of the everlasting gospel. He used for that purpose a Bible with the German text in one column and the English in the other, pointing out the striking passages to his little group of listeners. The result was the conversion of the Maeser household and those who met with them for instruction. Karl G. Maeser was baptized by President Franklin D. Richards, 170 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE in the River Elbe, on the night of October 14, 1855. The President was assisted by Elder Budge, who stood on one sidé of the convert, and not only helped to immerse him, but repeated in German for his benefit the words of the baptismal rite, as they fell in English from the lips of the apostle. Professor Schoenfeld was baptized in like manner on the same occasion. And now occurred a most remarkable incident—indeed, a miraculous one. While returning home, President Richards and Dr. Maeser walked side by side conversing, the former in English, the latter in German, Elder Budge interpreting for both. At a certain point, much to his surprise, he was told by President Richards that he need not interpret any further, as he and Dr. Maeser understood each other perfectly. It was a manifestation of the spiritual gift of interpretation of tongues, confirming the Savior's promise of the "signs" that were to "follow them that believe." At the Maeser home, on the following sabbath, a branch of the Church was organized. Aware of the storm that his action would evoke when it became known, Dr. Maeser voluntarily resigned his position in Dresden, and having been ordained to the priesthood, went as a missionary to London, where he built up a branch among the German inhabitants of that great city. He then crossed the Atlantic, labored as a missionary in Philadelphia, taught school in Richmond, Virginia, and after presiding for a season over the Philadelphia Saints, came to Utah with his family, arriving at Salt Lake City in October, 1860. There was an immediate demand for his services as a teacher, and in the Fifteenth and Twentieth wards, where he successively opened schools, he won golden opinions for his pedagogical skill. Subsequently he was private tutor in the family of President Brigham Young, and during the same period, organist for the Tabernacle Choir. This was in the days of the Old Tabernacle, which stood where the Assembly Hall now stands, From 1867 to 1870 he presided over the Saints in Switzerland and Germany, where his rare abilities as an organizer and a disciplinarian came into play. A marked feature of his administration was a wonderful system of teachers' report books, which rendered impossible any shirking of duty by a visiting teacher without its being known. He established the German Star (Der Stern), which still sheds its light over the Swiss and German mission. Returning home, he resumed his professional labors, and during the next six years continued to reside in Salt Lake City. Then came the great opportunity for which all 'his past experience, had been a preparation. He organized at Provo, in 1876, the Brigham Young Academy, the nucleus of the now flour- TWO GREAT EDUCATORS. - 171 ishing system of Church schools which have done and are doing so much for the young people of Zion and for the general advancement of the great cause committed to the Saints of latter days. He was called to this work by President Brigham Young who, in. Answer to his inquiry as to how 'he should proceed, simply said: "Brother Maeser, don't attempt to teach even the multiplication table without the Spirit of the Lord." A small acorn——but what a mighty oak has sprung from it! It was a stupendous task that had been A upon him, an undertaking before which most men, even most educators, would have quailed. The Academy was then but a name—there was no endowment, no equipment, and it had not a place to lay its head. But the faith and indomitable will of Karl G. Maeser were equal to the situation. With the bare, brief hint given him—bare but not barren, brief, yet infinite in suggestion—the veteran departed upon his errand; and how well he carried out the counsel of the Lord's servant, how thoroughly he did the work assigned him, nearly a half century of splendid success on the part of the school that he brought into being, eloquently. Testifies. Dr. Maeser's method of teaching was antipodal to Dr. Park's —diametrically opposite; and yet equally effective. The Germantrained pedagogue did not invite attention—he compelled it. Vigerous and vehement, he could be ironically stern, or pathetically mild, as occasion demanded. Despite his, at times, severe tone and somewhat brusque manner there was that about him which attracted powerfully. His students were drawn to him as irresistibly as the needle to the pole. 'He inculcated truthfulness and chastity as cardinal points of character, and put his students upon honor as to their conduct in and out of school, giving them to understand what it would mean to abuse and thus lose his confidence. ''Character is power," 'he told them; and to impress upon them the vital importance of good conduct, he said: "Our conduct in a previous life conditioned us in this life; and our conduct here will condition us hereafter'"—a noble expounding of the divine doctrine, "Whatsoever a man soweth, that shall he also reap." Thus, while educating the minds and bodies of his students, he was careful to instill into them the principles of religion and morality. The Bible, Book of Mormon, Doctrine and Covenants, and Pearl of Great Price were among the text-books of the Brigham Young Academy. Prayer and testimony were required of the students, and the atmosphere of worship pervaded the class rooms. All branches of learning, whether secular or sacred, were inculcated under the influence of the Spirit of the Lord. The result was that graduates from this school went forth from its portals firm in the faith, believers in God, Latter-day Saints, 172. = RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE equipped not only for expert office work and skilled labor of various kinds, but also for intelligent and efficient service in the Church schools and mission fields. Up to the fall of 1888, Dr. Maeser continued to be the principal of the Brigham Young Academy—now University. He was then given the position of General Superintendent of Church Schools—the great scholastic system sprung from the parent shoot that he had planted and—it might almost be said—watered with his tears; for the Brigham Young University, like the state university, came up through much tribulation. As general superintendent he organized Church schools far and wide, and visited them faithfully, his tours of inspection extending from Canada on the north to Mexico on the south. In the constitutional convention of 1895, he helped to frame the organic law upon which Utah was admitted into the Union, giving to that instrument the benefit of his constructive wisdom and ripe experience as an educator, materially affecting for good the public school system therein provided for. As general superintendent of Church schools and assistant general superintendent of Sabbath schools, he diligently served until death summoned him. He passed away at his home in Salt Lake City, February 15, 1901. Unlike Dr. Park, Dr. Maeser left no legacy. He had none to leave. He was not a maker of money, and died as he had lived, poor, or in very moderate circumstances. But he gave something far more precious than gold and silver or stocks and bonds to the noble institution of which he was the architect and builder, and to the mighty system that has grown out of it. He gave himselfi— left the impress of his upright example, his pearl-like precepts, and the lasting memory of the patient labor of the best years of his life, as an inspiration to his successors for all time to come. Such men as Dr. Park and Dr. Maeser need no monuments; yet it is fitting, most fitting that we rear them—not as reminders of their virtues and achievements, so well and widely known, but as tokens of reverence and esteem for these "dead but sceptered sovereigns who yet rule our spirits from their urns." See EDITORIAL Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah Motto—Charity Never Faileth THE GENERAL _BOARD — MRS. CLARISSA SMITH WILLIAMS - - - President MRS. JENNIE BRIMHALL KNIGHT - - -: - First Counselor MRS. LOUISE YATES ROBISON - - - Second Counselor MRS, AMY BROWN LYMAN - - - General Secretary and Treasurer Mrs. Emma A, Empey Mrs. Lotta Paul Baxter Mrs. Ethel Reynolds Smith Mrs, Jeanette A. Hyde Mrs. Julia A. Child Mrs. Barbara Howell Richards Miss Sarah M. McLelland Mrs. Cora L. Bennion Mrs. Rosannah C. Irvine Mrs. Annie Wells Cannon Mrs. Julia A. F. Lund Miss Alice Louise Reynolds Mrs. Lalene H. Hart Mrs. Amy Whipple Evans Mrs. Lizzie Thomas Edward, Music Director Miss Edna Coray, Organist _ RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Editor - - - CrarissA SmitH WILLIAMS Associate Editor - -. - - - - - Atice Louise REYNOLDS Business Manager - -. - - - -. JEANETTE A. Hype Assistant Manager _ - - - - - - - Amy Brown Lyman Room 29, Bishop's Buiding, Salt Lake City, Utah Vol. XI APRIL, 1924 — ~ No. 4 Phoebe Nourse Donated the First Money for a National Cathedral in Washington 'This is the 22nd of February. All over the United States people are observing the anniversary of the birth of George Washington. Today as one visits the city of Washington it is impossible to suppress a feeling of admiration that is aroused by the beauty of the city. Every new building that is erected with the thought of adding to its attractiveness; every bridge that is made artistic as well as useful; every road and boulevard that is improved; and every building that makes for the majesty and glory of the National Capitol is but fulfilling the dream of George Washington who ' 'wanted the Capitol to be the expression of the best in "the nation."' To this end he spent a great amount of time planning with Major L'Enfant detail after detail in the city's development. In L'Enfant's plan for the city, among the structures listed to be erected is found a suggestion for a church. Today there is a National Cathedral being built on Mount St. Olvens. The thought in erecting this cathedral is to make it an American Westminster Abbey where great Americans may be entombed. It will doubtless be of interest to our readers to learn that the first money contributed for. The erection of this cathedral was contributed by a young girl. The story goes that Joseph Nourse, who lived in a fine, colonial mansion on St. Olvens, who was the first Registrar of the Treasury, and a friend of Washington and Jefferson, prayed, because of the beauty and vantage point of the hill, that a church might some day be built where he stood. 174 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Phoebe Nourse, his granddaughter, invalid though she was, devoted herself to making real her grandfather's prayer. She made little articles of fancy work with her needle, and relatives and. Friends bought them; then she put the money away very carefully, never telling anyone why she did so. In 1848 she died. A small box among her effects contained $40 in gold. The receptacle that held the money was marked "For a free church on Olven's Hill." So deeply touched were her relatives and friends by the beauty and sincerity of her offering that a number of them set to work to increase the fund. The boys of the church school, who found lodging in her grandfather's mansion, dug the foundation of a church. From that humble beginning has grown the idea and the realization of our present National Cathedral where a number of church officials, prominently connected with the church, are buried, and where Woodrow Wilson's remains are now resting. Six Generations in the Church Ata dinner given in honor of Mrs. Charlotte Perkins Gilman, during her recent visit to Utah, Mrs. Augusta W. Grant, wife of President Heber J. Grant, responding to a toast, said that she was proud to state that among her ancestors were those of Revolutionary fame; and yet, prouder of the fact that six generations of her people have been and are at present affiliated with the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. The first one in line on her father's side was Gideon Burdick, a Revolutionary soldier who was with Washington at the crossing of the Delaware. His daughter Rebecca, her grandmother Winters, died on the plains in her effort to reach the valleys of the mountains from her eastern home. Her father, Oscar Winters, a well known pioneer of the state, is third in line. Mrs. Grant, herself, marks the fourth generation, while her daughter Mary, now Mrs. Robert Lund Judd, is of the fifth generation and Mary's children are of the sixth. 'It is most extraordinary that the same thing is true on the maternal side of the family as on the paternal side. Mrs, Grant's maternal grandmother's father was Aaron Frost and her grandmother was Mary Frost Stearns. Then came her mother, Mary Ann Winters, marking the third generation, herself the fourth, her daughter Mary Grant Judd the fifth, and Mary's children the sixth. The Frosts are of Puritan extraction. They came to America ten years after the landing of the Mayflower, in the same ship as Governor Winthrop. Some of their descendants figemel in the early Indian Wars. EDITORIAL" 175 This story is a challenge to all persons who have remarked that "Mormonism" could hardly be expected to outlive the third generation. Two Surveys In sharp contrast to the black map showing the prevalence of goiter in this part of the country, is the map presented by government agents affecting the liquor traffic indicating that Utah arid Idaho are almost in a white column. The issue of February 28 of the Literary Digest gives a map drawn by Mrs. Mabel Walker Willebrandt, Assistant Attorney General, showing the extent to which prohibition is not being enforced. In this map both Utah and Idaho show up to good advantage. They are in the lightest part of the map. Only three states in the Union are published as being only 5% wet, and these states are Idaho, Utah, and Kansas. Six states are 10% wet. These states are Wyoming, South Dakota, Nebraska, Oklahoma, Iowa and Tennessee. If Colorado, which is listed as being 15% wet, were only 10% or less, with the exception only of Tennessee somewhat removed geographically from the others, all these states having the lowest per cent of wetness would be together. Again there is reason for the Latter-day Saints to be proud, for long before the passage of the Federal Suffrage Amendment the states where Latter-day Saints resided had all been enfranchised. Now it turns out that the two states in which the greatest number of Latter-day Saints reside are the driest, and are matched only by Kansas which had statewide prohibition many years before Utah and Idaho entered the dry column. There are people who appear to be discouraged because of the wetness, particularly of the states along the coast lines, but the fact that many states in the interior are making headway with the problem should encourage those who are interested in enforcing the law. There are many people in Utah today who recall that thirty, forty, and fifty years ago, it was quite a common thing for English people to have beer in their homes, and people of other nationalities to drink other sorts of liquor. We recall distinctly seeing workmen on buildings given a glass of beer at 10:30 in the morning. Now, despite the fact that some people, who regard themselves as social leaders, insist on serving, at dinner parties and other social gatherings, liquor in various forms, under the mistaken notion that they are showing great hospitality to their guests, chiefly because liquor is hard to obtain and costly when it is obtained, there is improvement in the situation. None should be disheartened; but everyone should be seeking 176 -- RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE to order his life, his words, and his example in such fashion, that when the Prohibition Amendment shall be eight, rather than four years of age, there will be a notable decrease in the use of intoxicants throughout all this proud land. A Perfect Day It is not a great while ago that authors and composers gave the product of their minds without any thought of remuneration; in other words they had to depend on the kindness of well-disposed, interested persons to be able to publish that which they had created. Consequently, it is with a good deal of satisfaction that we learn that Mrs. Carry Jacobs-Bond has made her fortune through the writing of the words and the music of one song, A Perfect Day. Mrs. Bond was left penniless by the death of her husband. She tried painting china to make a living, and wrote some songs which she published in her own bedroom. Finally she wrote A Perfect Day which met with great favor everywhere it was sung. Five million copies of this song have been sold from which she has received royalties, thus making her quite independent. We take it for granted that most persons are acquainted with the words, but lest any may not be, we are including them in this editorial: A Perrect Day When you come to the end of a perfect day, | And you sit alone with your thought, While the chimes ring out with a carol gay, For the joy that the day has brought, Do you think what the end of a perfect day Can mean to a tired heart, When the sun goes down with a flaming ray, And the dear friends have to part? Well this is the end of a perfect day, Near the end of a journey, too; But it leaves a thought that is big and strong, With a wish that is kind and true, For memory has painted this perfect day With colors that never fade, And we find at the end of a perfect day, | The soul of a friend we've made. The Sego Lily (Utah's State Flower) By Elizabeth Noble Flower of our State, thy pure white bell, With deepest crimson flecked; Thy dainty grace proclaims thee queen, On fields with wild flowers decked, And not thy beauty rare alone To our eyes' make appeal, Thy homely roots, to hungry folks, Provide a welcome meal. As oft the famished pioneers Have proved in days bygone, When all that kept hearts from despair Was living faith alone. Faith kept alive by sight of thee, Sweet "Lily of the Field," Arrayed with beauty greater far Than kingly vestures yield. Oh, flower we love, when spring returns We welcome thee again, With thee our loved ones' graves we deck With thee greet Easter's reign. While life remains we'll cherish thee, Thy beauties we will tell; And take thy message to our hearts, Brought by thy snowy bell. 3 Simple Trimming for Summer Dresses By Vilate Elhott, Brigham Young University While very satisfactory ready-made clothing of all kinds can be purchased; only in the more costly qualities can they be found for the woman who appreciates good materials in fast colors and good workmanship.- For this reason the thrifty young mother finds she can cut down her clothing budget by choosing good styles and materials and making the summer dresses for herself and children. Gingham and percale are standard fabrics for 'house dresses, the gingham especially being serviceable in fast colors both for women and children. Combinations in colors with simple trimmings such as bias tape and rick-rack braid make very attractive dresses for all classes. The following illustrations show some of the ways of using bias tape and rick-rack braid. Figure.1. Shows the sun-bonnet baby apron, this one was made from light-blue chambry with pink chambry used for the baby. The sun-bonnet baby is enlarged elsewhere in this article. The rick-rack braid both on the baby, sleeves and neck are tacked in place with a French 'kdot off black cotton. Figure 2. Could be made with a combination of colors or the rick-rack braid set on to give the desired effect. The flowers are made from the braid, the center one is filled with French knots, or the center could be a contrasting color, the smaller ones are made of the braid with the points meeting in the center, then a lazy daisy stitch placed in each petal with a few French knots in the center. Figure 3. Is a very pleasing little dress, the bias tape gives the effect of a little flounce, the bias is folded and stitched double around the dress, with strips of tape set on across the front, this gives a neat finish. The neck and sleeves and shoulders are bound with the tape, a short placket on each shoulder fastened with a snap makes it easy to put on. This works up well in any color, black sateen with red bias tape is very effective. Figure 4. Is a cunning dress in pink gingham with striped or checked insets, the white bias tape is used to bind the insets also to give the flounce effect to the skirt. - Figure 5. This would be very pretty in tan and brown gingham with a brown checked bias tape used for finishing. SUMMER DRESSES — 179 Frg. = Fig. B 180 —— = }' RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE [-) SUMMER DRESSES 181 Figure 6. Could be any color with the neck, sleeves, and shoulder line bound in contrasting color. The belt is also bound. Mock buttonholes, made of bias tape; and buttons may be used as trimmings on the shoulders and belt. These dresses are all made with the butterfly pattern because they are easy to make and to iron. Figure 7. White cotton suiting, trimmed with yellow bias tape in the ladder work pattern would be very pleasing. This 182 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE mous also work up well in combination colors in gingham or percale, Figure 8.. Peter-pan lavender gingham finished with white with the mock buttonholes while the other side has the buttons, Figure 9. Made of pink lawn and trimmed with pink lawn bias tape tab trimming made by folding the tape double and stitching under the continuous row. Bias tape may be held in place with quick, easy embroidery stitches, or two edges may be faggoted together as shown on page 181 Note: If your merchant does not carry the width or color desired, you can purchase it at the following address: Wm. E. Wright and Sons, 350-370 Scotland Road, Orange, New Jersey. An Easter Thought There's life and death and life again; *Tis nature's law. God did ordain That flowers bloom and fade and die. They do not die but only lie Beneath the snow the winter through.: They'll live again; they'll bloom anew; They only sleep, deep in the earth, And when spring comes there's life and birth. The trees and shrubs are brown and bare, But soon there's beauty everywhere. The warm sunshine and gentle rain Will nature bring to life again. 'Tis like the resurrection morn When man the second time is born. Friends are not dead, but only sleep. Then why should we be sad and weep? The Savior died upon the tree. He died to set the sinner free. He was not dead but only slept While round his tomb the mourners wept. He conquered death and rose again While angels sang in glad refrain. There is no death, 'tis only sleep. 'Then why bemoan our fate? Why weep? —William C. T. Adams, bias tape or harmonizing color could be used. One side is trimmed Wisdom of the Ancients Reflected in our Modern Salads Elizabeth Cannon, Dept. Of Foods and Nutrition, Brigham Young University Our taste for salads does not indicate an ultra-modern desire; the taste for them is an inheritance from classic times and eastern lands. At the Passover the Hebrews ate lettuce, dandelion and mint combined with oil and vinegar with a relish equaling our aptitude for thousand island dressing and lettuce. The rich Greeks imported lettuce from Smyrna to be eaten at the close of the meal, nor were they the only ancients who indulged in iron and vitamines. Rome in her glory imitated the Greeks and later served lettuce with eggs at the beginning of the meal for an appetizer. The ancient physicians valued it for medicine. Galen, the Greek physician, called it the '""Philosopher's or wise man's herb." Today our salad is even more versatile than in ancient times. The proper kind of salad can be served any place in the meal that we desire. If our appetites are languishing what could be more. Enticing than a cold, crisp fruit salad or a highly seasoned fish? Nor shall we stop at the beginning. In the elegance of a many course dinner, what could better tickle the palate for a fish course than a delicately seasoned fish salad with the glory of all its accompaniments? For the main dish of a luncheon or a "balm of Gilead" to our fevered bodies in the summer what could be better relished than a tastily prepared salad? Any light salad is always a "stand-by" when we never know just what to serve for a side dish to the main course in a meal. The "last word" in a formal | dinner is to serve a separate salad course. Who could fail to relish such after a heavy main dish? And finally, what could satiate the appetite and be a better benediction for the close of a meal than a delicious fruit salad dressed with sweet dressing? Ponce de Leon started searching for the fountain of youth and we have been in its quest by way of tonics or gland cures ever since. But stop, the way has been found! We read that "salads refresh without exciting and make people younger;" whether true or not we know that "salad plants are better tonics and blood purifiers than druggists' compounds." These blood purifiers and tonics available to us are nothing more than the plebian greens of our garden, sttch as lettuce, watercress, beet tops, dandelions, spinach, celery, and cabbage. Their accompaniments are the three oil dressings, French, Mayonnaise and Thousand Island, boiled salad dressing and the. Sweet fruit dressing. 184 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE And upon what do these superfunctional qualities of salad depend? Why, the mineral, vegetable acids, vitamines and cellulose are as gold mines to our bodies to say nothing of the protein, fat, and carbo-hydrate supplied in abundance in different salads. A true salad maker is an artist. "How can I be one?" did I hear some one say? Listen closely and you will hear the tricks of the trade. An attractive salad must have the following qualities: (1) freshness; (2) crispness; (3) appetizing combination; (4) harmonizing with meal, china, and table decorations; (5) coolness; 6) attractive color; (7) appropriateness to meal. A dinner salad should rarely, if ever, be heavy or complex. It should be of fresh fruits or vegetables delicately served. The heavy or more complex ones should be served alone or at a less hearty meal. Each salad constituent should be considered and only such things combined that will harmonize or best develop its especial flavor. And finally, you would-be artists, remember that "a salad can be made so beautiful as to lend a charm and grace to its surroundings, and so delicious that, when daintily served, it will go far, of itself, to redeem from utter failure a very ordinary -dinner." —_——_— A Message By Mrs, Parley Nelson How can you sing so joyously, O bird, upon your tilting spray? One whom I love has gone from me— My world is dark and cold today. My head is bowed with grief and fears, Bewildered by Death's mystery, Before me stretch the weary years— Why mock me with your melody? Why do I sing my joyous lay, O weary mortal, crushed and bowed? I feel the breath of spring today And see the sun beyond the cloud. God placed me here that I might sing To cheer the world when things go wrong, And he who do'eth all things well, Sends forth a message in my song. The Scent of the Hyacinth An Easter Story By Elizabeth Cannon Porter Mrs. Burt went out into the spring garden to get a pot of hyacinths to take to her husband's room in the hospital. She selected pink blossoms as being not only beautiful but cheerful. As she lingered there in the beds of brightly colored flowering bulbs, one of the bravest inspirations came to her that she had felt since her bereavement the autumn before., They had buried her small daughter about the time that they had planted the bulbs, and she liked to think that Ardelle's soul had blossomed into fresh beauty in the spirit world just as the hyacinths had burst into bloom. Unhampered by the restrictions of the flesh, the soul can pursue its untrammeled way to progression. All winter the child's passing had cast its gloom over the house.. The mother found her only solace in attending to the constant demands of her other children and the sustaining love of her husband. Eventually time, the great healer, would help her. But now Dan was stricken ill and dread held her in thrall. They had not been married in the temple. Young and heedless, they had not thought much about it at the time. They were located some distance away and they had not made the necessary effort to go to the "House of the Lord." The attention of the young couple was taken up with lesser things. Since the first break in the family ties she had regretted it because her mind had run on the life after death. It was her one hope of being re-united with Ardelle. Recently she had attended the funeral of a man who had neglected going through the temple and having his family sealed to him. Death had come upon him swiftly. When his stricken "wife wanted his work done as he had intended, she was told she would have to wait. So instead of being dressed in the beautiful temple robes, he had been buried in a palm beach suit! That morning when she opened her Bible for her daily verse, her eyes had fallen on the line: As a man "thinketh in his heart so is he." So she had bravely decided that she would think the things that she desired, life and health and success, and not brood over the dead past. It was the springtime of the year, and the sun revivified the world. She would take a lesson from the earth that donned new garb at this season. The flowers emerged re-incarnated and 186 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE radiant from their winter's hibernating. People should take a lesson from nature and put on fresh raiment in the Spring. Imbued with the idea, she betook herself to a sale of remnants at one of the stores that morning, and bought a liberal supply of goods. She would make new clothes for the children. She would get so busy preparing for life that she would have no time to brood over death. Just as the garden had burst into color, so she would brighten the house to get it ready for her husband's return. New courage animated her. She dressed and made her way to the hospital. The spring sun shone even in the bare hospital room. Her husband's face, not quite so gray-yellow as it had been, brightened at the sight of her., "You bring the spring with you," he smiled. "Nonsense. It's the hyacinths," she replied with raillery. "How are you today?" "Better. They say that the blood pressure is reduced, and that I can go on with the hydro-therapy at home." "Oh, I'm so glad. It will be fine to have you home." "Maybe I won't be glad to get home!" She drew her chair up beside the bed and took his hand between hers. "Iam going to propose to you," she whispered mysteriously. "You know that this is leap year." Her 'husband looked queer. "As soon as you ate able I want you to go to the temple with us and have me and the children sealed to you for this world and the life to come. I could not bear not to have you always," her voice broke. "Besides, we will feel better about Delle. We want to know that she belongs to us forever and has just gone on before. Not only that but going to the temple will help make you well." For answer he drew her face down beside him on the pillow. A contented sigh escaped him. —_————— A Thought By A. F,. Harman Superintendent, Montgomery County, Alabama I know a little flower, wild, Stormtossed, sun-kissed, the gentle child Of all the spirits of the wood; So frail of form, so fair of face I wonder that its charm and grace Prevail against the evil flood. Fair flower, sprung from lowly sod, | A thought thou art, a thought from God. Dr. McCollum Coming to Utah By Carrie Castle Dozier, Dean of the School of Home Economics, Utah Agricultural College The study of human nutrition and of the dietary needs of the individual has made such rapid strides during the past decade that our information on human nutrition of but a short time ago is largely in the discard. ' It is necessary, if we are to feed ourselves as intelligently as we feed our dairy cows and our -cattle, that we keep in constant touch with the new information that is being so rapidly accumulated in this field. Because the Utah Agricultural College realized the desire on the part of Utahns for an opportunity to study present methods of human nutrition from an expert in this field, the Institution secured Dr. E. V. McCollum, Head of the Department of Human Nutrition of Johns Hopkins' University, to offer credit courses of six weeks' duration in human nutrition at the Utah Agricultural College National Summer School. These courses offered by Dr. McCollum should make a particular appeal to Utah, because I do not believe that there is a group of people in the entire United ' States more interested, in all that concerns the promotion of happy, healthful and useful living, than the people of this state. Dr. McCollum spent last summer at the University of California and his classes were among the most popular. The room assigned him was overcrowded the first day; the larger room provided the second day of the term proved entirely inadequate to 'house those who had registered for his work; and a room of still larger size had to be abandoned in favor of one of the largest class rooms on the Berkeley campus before the end of the first week. There were numbers of Utah people among the students and visitors in his classes who will rejoice in Utah's good fortune in securing his services for the coming summer. Dr. McCollum is best known to students of nutrition through his book, The Newer Knowledge of Nutrition, which is used as a text in many colleges and universities. He is also the author of the more popular, but just as scientific treatise, The American Home Diet. His most widely known contribution to human welfare, however, has 'had to do with vitamines. Until about ten years ago it was believed that-an animal body, human or otherwise, could be nourished on foods made up of water, carbohydrates, fats, proteins and minerals. Why animals given plenty of these purified: substances failed to thrive or even live was a mystery, and Professor McCollum helped to solve the question through his discovery that the necessary but minute quantities of organic 2 DR. E. V. McCOLLUM Head of the Department of Human Nutrition of Johns Hopkins' University DR. McCOLLUM = 189 substances now known as vitamines, are absent from such combinations. In fact it is to him that we are indebted for the names which they bear, fat soluble A, water soluble B and C. There is an abundance of these in certain foods, an entire absence in other foods, while midway between these two groups stand those which have only a moderate store of these necessary to life and health, but still chemically unidentified substances. Milk, eggs, and leafy vegetables are representatives of the first class and are called by McCollum the "protective foods." There is no doubt in Professor McCollum's mind but that human efficiency could be raised measurably by proper food. In this connection I can do no better than to quote from his Newer Knowledge of Nutrition: "The concentrated efforts of the author during a period of fourteen years have been devoted to observing the effects of diets of different types on experimental animals. During this time a continuous search has been carried on for information of any and every kind which would aid in correlating the results of the laboratory: with those of practical experience. Year by year this has increased his conviction that the scientific discoveries in the field of nutrition are destined to be recognized as the most fundamental of the agencies that contribute to the 'health, happiness and achievement of man. Some time must elapse before a full appreciation of the importance of approximating the optimum in the character of the food supply can be expected, but when appreciated at its full value, our knowledge in the field of the science of nutrition will be regarded as our most precious possession." There is so much pseudo-scientific information on the subject 'of foods these days that it is a great satisfaction to know that one of the foremost authorities on the subject in America is to be in our midst for six weeks. He has unusual ability to translate into every-day terms the scientific facts which he and others have discovered in their laboratories with regard to adequate diets, and 'his lectures are replete with practical information. On the other hand, his classes at the Johns Hopkins' Medical College afford a striking example of his ability to present the same subject couched in terms of scientific accuracy and detail. The information he will bring to Utah this summer will be as valuable to the housewife as to the college or university student. For the benefit of the former let me quote, "The greatest good is to come to the next generation, so far as educational effort can accomplish its purpose, through the solicitude of mothers and fathers in so caring for their unborn and born children as to obviate the establishment of those physical defects which not only prevent normal muscular development but which affect the entire outlook upon life." Professor McCollum's courses will be invaluable to advanced students in the guidance they will provide in efforts 190 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE to sift, digest and assimilate "the vast literature which has grown up within a few years, relating to nutrition investigations, in which there is much that is confusing." While Dr. McCollum's work will be of particular interest to the women of the state, there will be other outstanding factors at the National Summer School who will have messages of great value to offer. In addition to Dr. McCollum the following leading educators will offer credit courses during the summer session: Prof. W. C. Allee, Department of Zoology, University of Chicago; Dr. Emmett D. Angell, Lecturer at Yale, Harvard and Wisconsin Universities; Recreational Leadership: Dr. Eliot Blackwelder, Head Department of Geology, Stanford University; Dr. E. C. Branson Head Department of Rural Sociology, University of North Carolina; Prof. Henry C. Cowles, Department of Botany, University of Chicago; Prof. Raymond Franzen of the Department of Education, University of California; Prof. R. S. Knappen, of the Department of Geology, University of Kansas; Dr. R. C. McLain, Supervisor of Health Education, Detroit, Michigan; Prof. Frederick Merk, Department of History, Harvard University; Prof. C. A. Reed, Asst. Prof. Agricultural Engineering, Ohio State University; Prof. Frederick J. Turner, 'Head Department of Western History, Harvard University; Prof. E. L. Thorndike, Head Department of Psychology and Education, Columbia University; Prof. Thomas D. Wood, Head Department of Physical and Health Education, Columbia University. In addition to this teaching faculty, special lectures will be given by Prof. John Adams, Prof. Of Psychology and Education, University of London; Dr. William F. Anderson, Director Gymnasium, Yale University; Dr. Liberty Hyde Bailey, Dean Emeritus of the New York State College of Agriculture; Dr. David Starr Jordan, President Emeritus, Stanford University; Prof. Shailer Matthews, Dean of the Divinity School, University of Chicago; Prof. E. A. Steiner, Head, Department of Social Science and Applied Christianity, Grinnel College; Dr. A. E. Winship, Editor Journal of Education, Boston, Mass. Something to Think About 'By Heber J. Sears, M. D., Head of Department of Hygiene University of Utah Goiter and the Dullard Not so very long ago the dull school child was placed upon a high stool with a "dunce cap" on his head. It was assumed that he could learn if he would only apply himself. His dullness was supposed to be due to laziness. He was jeered at, humiliated in various ways, and even flogged for 'his stupidity. Now we know that if a child fails to keep up with his class there is usually some physical or mental defect. This defect may or may not be correctable. As a rule, the fault is more likely to be with his parents than with the child, but we now look for the ~ causes instead of punishing the_victim. Much scientific study has been done on this subject since the days of Dickens, and a flood of light has been thrown upon the dark corners of the problem. It is now incumbent upon us, as a civilized nation, to apply this knowledge. It is estimated that, in the United States, some forty million dollars is wasted annually on backward or mentally retarded children—in re-teaching them what they have already been taught but have failed to learn. The Mystery of the Glands Glands regulate personality. Glands determine the quality of our mentality. We have all grades of intelligence ranging from idiocy, on the one hand, to genius, on the other. The glands often determine which it shall be. We are curiously and wonderfully made. In our bodies we carry around a great number of glands. These glands preside over the chemistry of the body. If a gland is upset the chemistry of the body is upset, for most of the body processes are chemical processes. It would seem that in the human economy almost every process is dependent upon some other process—every gland upon the function of some other gland—and that health—physical and _ mental—depends upon the harmonious cooperative working of all the glands. 7 There are two periods in life when body growth is exceedingly rapid—these are the prenatal period and the period of adolescence, These periods of rapid growth call for increased nourishment and for increased activity on the part of all the glands, 192 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE In the nine months preceding birth, the weight increase is nearly a billionfold—from a microscopic cell to seven or eight pounds. After birth the rate of growth decreases gradually until the age of puberty when a second period of rapid growth begins. The brain is the driving force in man and animals. Whether the brain drives well or poorly depends upon at least three glands —these are the liver, the adrenals, and the thyroid. If the thyroid gland is absent or inactive the brain is dull and its owner stupid. If a child is born without'a thyroid gland or with a thyroid gland that fails to function, he is called a cretin. Such an unfortunate individual is dwarfed in body and mind. He presents a toad-like appearance. The skin is dry, the tissues under the skin seem very thick and boggy, the forehead is low, the base of the nose is broad, the mouth half-open, and the hair coarse. The whole picture is a revolting sight. Until within the last half century, such cases were considered hopeless. Then a great light dawned. Medical science discovered the cause and, as in many other cases, the cause suggested the remedy. That these otherwise doomed creatures can be rescued from hopeless idiocy is a triumph of experimental medicine unparalleled in its history. In the front part of the neck is a very important structure called the thyroid gland. It is a structure in which we are all deeply interested because it so frequently gives trouble. It forms almost a letter "H"—in the upper part of which rests the ""Adam's Apple." 'You cannot feel this gland unless it is enlarged. When it is enlarged we say its owner has goiter. If the thyroid gland is absent or inactive in a child the child may be dull, or feebleminded, or even idiotic. If the thyroid gland ceases to function in adult life, physical and mental degeneration rapidly sets in. The thyroid gland has been called "The Gland of Romance," because it sometimes acts like a barometer, varying with the tide of affection and other emotions. It is known to be definitely associated with the reproductive function. 'A woman with a goiter, if not treated, may give birth to a mentally defective child. The thyroid gland is also linked up with the liver, with the digestive processes, and, perhaps, with several other processes. It is associated with a number of other ductless glands known by the general name of Endocrine glands. These glands play important roles in the body economy. The business of the thyroid gland is to manufacture a substance we now call thyroxin. It would seem that the purpose of thyroxin is to regulate the amount of oxidation in the cells of the body. The purpose of oxygenating the cells is to keep the fires burning. So the thyroid gland regulates the supply SOMETHING TO THINK ABOUT 193 of thyroxin and the thyroxin regulates the supply of oxygen to the tissues. The sunny side of this problem will be 'handled in this Magazine next month. The Seven Ages of Play (With apologies to Shakespeare). By Charles H. Keene, M. D. Director, Bureau of Health Education, Harrisburg, Penn. Play has seven ages; first, instinctive mover, Struggling and crawling in a tiny orbit; And then the imitator, with his toys And gleaming, sunny smile, toddling like puppy Happily about; and then, the savage, Throwing, striking, mauling, as a joyful tribute Paid to his race's story; then a hunter Bent on swift chase, and speeding like the fox, Cruel in habit, sudden and quick in seizing, Seeking the phantom quarry Even in the crowded street; and then, the nomad, Of fair, round visage, and glad, smiling mouth With eyes serene, and pet at tripping heel, Full of kind thoughts and happy instances: _And so he plays his race. The sixth age slips Into the fair and joyful agriculture; On gard'ning intent, and things that grow, His youthful soul content with play so wise For his small head—with his big, beaming eyes, Turning again toward race's past—he digs And struggles in the soil. Last scene of all, That ends this childish growth, the tribesman, In growing consciousness of his racial goal, Does stunts, plays games, forms teams, co-operates: —Journal of the National Education Association. Photo by Stafford, Chicago Relief Societies of Logan Square, University and Roseland Branches, Northern States Mission Chicago, Illinois, Mrs. Rachel Grant Taylor, Mission President of Relief Societies indicated by circle. Notes from the Field Amy Brown Lyman Northern States Mission. Mrs. Rachel Grant Taylor, president of the Relief Society of the Northern States mission, recently entertained the members of the three Chicago branches at a delightful social at the mission home. These branches are Logan Square, Roseland, and University. There were in all seventy-seven present, including ten children. A delightful musical program was given, including piano numbers by Brother Sam Williams, the well-known Salt Lake musician, who is studying in Chicago, and vocal solos by Sisters Anderson, Matheson, Swartwood, and Solum, who were accompanied by Mr. Williams. Delicious refreshments were served by Sister Taylor who was assisted by her charming daughter, Lucy, and the lady missionaries. During the afternoon the accompanying picture was taken which shows Sister Taylor in the center of the group, surrounded by her Chicago Relief Society workers. When one hears the three Chicago branches spoken of, it sounds as though they might be immediately adjoining one another. However, such is not the case. Although these branches are all within the city limits, it requires an hour and fifteen minutes on the elevated to go from Logan Square, where the mission headquarters are located, to University branch, and about two hours to go to Roseland, almost the same time in travel as going from Salt Lake to Ogden and from Salt Lake to Provo. If one can imagine a Relief Society stake president in Salt Lake with a ward in Ogden to visit, and another in Provo, one would have a conception of the time it takes the mission president at Logan Square to visit the other two Chicago branches. The largest of these three organizations is Logan Square. The officers are: President, Margaret Johnston; first counselor, Gwennie Matheson; second counselor, Aurora Dixon; secretarytreasurer, Elizabeth Dedekind; Magazine representative, Anna Lingreen. The University branch is located near the University of Chicago, where the majority of the students and their families live. It meets the needs of the people from the west who are temporarily there, as well as the resident members of that district. The president is Florence Anderson; first counselor, Alyce Perry; second counselor, Jessie Cardwell; secretary-treasurer, Erzel Mickley; Magazine representative, Edna Wadley. In Roseland the president is Paulena De Vries; first counselor, Maggie Walker; second counselor, Sadie Sutton; secretary-treasurer, Janette Walker. 196 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE These organizations hold meeting at eight o'clock in the evening, as so many are employed in the business world during the day, or else have no one with whom they can leave their children until evening. I In the Northern States mission there are in all thirteen Relief Society branches. They are all in splendid condition and enthusiastic over their work. Utah Stake Reorganized. Mrs. Inez Knight Allen, early in the year, resigned her position as president of the Relief Society of the Utah stake, and was honorably released, but with sincere regret, at the Utah stake conference held in January. Mrs. Allen's entire board was released with her. Mrs. Allen had served six years as president of the stake Relief Society and during that time she made an enviable record for real accomplishments. Previous to being appointed president, she served the stake three years as secretary and ten years as counselor. A woman of rare vision and real genius in public work, Mrs. Allen early in her administration made a survey of the work being done by her organization and also a survey of the needs in the community covered by the stake. She found that very effective work was being done in some of the departments, but the survey convinced her of two things: First, that more service and better service should be given along welfare lines in order to meet the real needs of the communities, and secondly, that it would be necessary to raise and distribute more money if certain types of constructive human welfare work were to be accomplished. After counseling with her board, and after consulting her priesthood authorities and the General Board, Mrs. Allen formulated plans and with her stake board, established a cooperative welfare department, which was called the Community Welfare Department of the Utah Stake Relief Society. This department was conducted under the supervision and direction of the local priesthood and the stake Relief Society, with Mrs. Annie D. Palmer, a trained social worker, acting as the executive secretary. The object of the department was constructive family work, and community betterment. The department has correlated the local work of the Relief Society, cooperated with the county and other local agencies, as well as with state agencies and institutions in the interest of humanity, and has become known throughout Utah and the west as an efficient and up-to-date family welfare agency. Utah stake is well known also for other phases of work, among which are its splendid union meetings and its excellent department and class work. The General Board takes this opportunity of expressing to Mrs, Allen and her faithful co-workers, deep appre- NOTES FROM THE FIELD 197 ciation for their service and the high standards maintained in their work. On Saturday, February 16, a reception was tendered Mrs. Allen and her associates on the stake board, by the new stake board and the ward officers. The social was held in College Hall, Brigham Young University, Prove, Utah, with eight hundred women in attendance. There was a delightful program and refreshments, after which the entire audience was given an opportunity to shake hands with the retiring officers and General Board visitors, who formed themselves into a receiving line for this purpose. Mrs. Allen was presented with a gorgeous bouquet of roses in a large cut glass bowl. Her counselors, Mrs. Annie D. Palmer and Mrs. Ina G. Hodson, each received roses in cut glass vases. All other board members were each given a copy of Edgar Guest's poems. Mrs. Electa Smoot Dixon, a former member of Mrs. Allen's board and a capable and faithful Relief Society worker, was appointed to succeed Mrs, Allen as president of the Utah stake Relief Society. She will be assisted by Counselors Emma S. Jensen and Zina Murdock; Esthma C. Tanner, secretary-treasurer; and the following board members: Emily Nielson, Clara N. Giles, Nellie S. Thornton, Susie W. Poulton, Allie W. Clark, and Anna S., Bird. Rigby Stake. On the evening of January 18, 1924, in the Rigby stake amusement hall, the stake presidency and board members of the Rigby stake Relief Society gave a delightful entertainment isy honor of the stake presidency and their wives, and members of the following auxiliary boards: Sunday School, Y. M. And Y. L. M. I, A., Religion Class, Primary, and Genealogical Society, with their wives and husbands and the bishopric and wives from First and Second wards. A total of one hundred and thirty guests were seated at two long banquet tables, which were loaded with the good viands that the Relief Society women know so well how to prepare. Red and white carnations and ferns formed the table decorations. Before being seated the guests all sang "O Ye Mountains High," and Stake President J. W. Hart offered the opening prayer. After the splendid banquet the following program was rendered: Address of welcome, by President Elizabeth J. Hart; a retold story, by Mrs. Martha Ballantyne; a vocal solo, by Mrs. Belle Tall; a reading, by Mrs, Laura Watson and Mrs. Minnie Elsworth; piano duet, Mrs. Stella Brossard and Miss Blanche Brossard. A prognostication of board members was read by Mrs. Cora Burton and created much merriment. A short sketch was given by Brother William Hatch. The program was closed by 198 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE vocal numbers by Mrs. Alida Call Dixon of Oakland, California. After the program the floor was cleared for dancing. Very splendid music was furnished by the Smiles Orchestra, a company of young boys under direction of Mrs. Lucile Stowell. The old-time dances were much enjoyed by the merry company assembled. Mrs. Laura Watson, a retiring board member, was presented with a beautifully bound volume as a token of appreciation for her labors. At twelve o'clock the benediction was pronounced by W. W. Selck, Jr., of the stake presidency. Samoan Mission. The Samoan mission Relief Society has been reorganized. Mrs, Thurza Adams, who served faithfully and efficiently during her 'husband's presidency in this mission, was released to return home with President Adams. Mrs. Nettie L. Butler, wife of the new mission president, Ernest L. Butler, has been appointed Relief Society president, and is actively engaged in the work. Logan Stake. Mrs. Annie W. Clark of Logan First ward writes the Magazine as follows: "T have enjoyed very much my visit to every family in our ward in the interest of our very splendid Magazine. I could talk much better for it than I could 'have done had I been getting ten cents out of each subscription. I got as much pleasure out of this work as any Relief Society work I have ever done. 1 assure you I gladly contribute my time to help the Magazine hold the price as low as possible. I believe we have the largest number this year in our ward we have ever had—sixty-one subscriptions now, and I have two more prospects a little later." Hyrum Stake. A very interesting review of the literary lessons of the past year was the feature of a program in the Mendon ward Relief Society early in the year. Paper and pencils were passed to all present and fifteen questions were asked. The answers were represented by different pictures and objects, which were numbered—the odd numbers representing the writings of the various authors and the even numbers, the authors. Two of the members got 100%' in the examination, others got from 75% to 98%, the results showing that the lessons during the year have been well understood. Two prizes were given, the first prize being a book of One Hundred and One Famous Poems. The lesson and the examination| were given in a very interesting and attractive manner by the class teachers, Sisters Jensen and Baker. After the program a tempting luncheon was served. The lesson work in on NOTES FROM THE FIELD - 199 Mendon is always exceptionally good. Many of the literary lessons have been dramatized and features have been introduced in the other departments to make the class work interesting and successful. Mrs. Rebecca Allen, who has been a member of the Hyrum stake board for twenty years, serving a goodly portion of that time as stake secretary, has resigned her position, due to change of residence. Mrs. Allen recently became the bride of William Lindley of Ogden and has gone with her husband to her new home. Mrs. Allen was a faithful member of the Relief Society and a most efficient secretary. She will be greatly missed by the women of Hyrum stake. Mrs, Millie Peterson has been appointed stake secretary to fill the vacancy caused by Mrs. Allen's release. South Sanpete Stake. Owing to the segregation of the South Sanpete stake into two stakes, Gunnison and South Sanpete, which took place last May, two new wards were organized in both Manti and Ephraim. This change really resulted in the reorganization of the Relief Societies throughout the South Sanpete stake with the exception of Sterling, and most splendid results have followed. There has been a reawakening throughout, and greater interest in Relief Society work. The teachers have been active in their work and in promoting a good feeling throughout the stake. In one of the wards, the Relief Society teachers in districts No. 2 and 4 entertained the old folks of those districts together with the mothers of the teachers. No. 2 served a tray luncheon, while No. 4 set tables. Splendid programs were rendered and calls were later made upon those who were unable to attend the function. In early autumn the health centers were established, one in Manti and one in Ephraim under the supervision of the Relief Society stake board. Two clinics were held shortly after, under the management of the State Bureau of Child Hygiene. During the past year two of the members of the stake board have each taken into their homes an infant to rear. These sisters have the responsibility of caring for these children and of bestowing upon them every attention with a tender solicitude for their need and comfort. Be noble! And the nobleness that lies In other men, sleeping, but never dead, Will rise in majesty to meet thine own; Then wilt thou see it gleam in many eyes, »Then will light around thy path be shed, And thou wilt never more be sad or lone. —James Russell Lowell, DOROTHY Q. Guide Lessons for June LESSON I Theology Lesson (First Week in June) THE PARABLES OF THE SAVior (Continued) A. The Draw Net "Again, the kingdom of heaven is like unto a net, that was cast into the sea, and gathered of every kind: Which, when is was full, they drew to shore, and set down, and gathered the good into vessels, but cast the bad away. "So shall it be at the end of the world: the angels shall come - forth, and sever the wicked from among the just, and shall cast them into the furnace of fire; there shall be wailing and gnashing of teeth." Matt. 13:47-50. Evidently this parable was intended to teach two things: First, that in the Kingdom on the earth there would be found both righteous and unrighteous people; and, Second, as in the case of the tares there would come a time of segregation or classification according to real character worth. Incomplete interpretation of this parable and the one of the tares has undoubtedly led to the doctrine of the consignment of the soul to one of two places. It is scarcely conceivable that in the net there would be but two kinds of fish, the worthless and the valuable, for it is a well known fact that the Sea of Galilee contained a variety of fish varying in usefulness, and the natural classification of the haul would be illustrative of the doctrine of gradation in salvation as plainly revealed in the dispensation of the fulness of times. Doctrine and Covenants, Sec. 76.. This parable is a good illustration of the difference between being in 'the Kingdom and being of the Kingdom. B. The Unmerciful Servant—Matthew 18:23-25. "Therefore is the kingdom of heaven likened unto a certain king, which would take account of his servants. And when he had begun to reckon, one was brought unto him, which owed him ten thousand talents. But forasmuch as he had not to pay, his lord commanded him to be sold, and his wife, and children, and all that he had, and payment. To be made. The servant therefore fell down, and worshiped him, saying, Lord, have patience with me, and I will pay thee all. Then the lord of that servant was moved with compassion and loosed him and forgave him the debt. 202 - RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE "But the same servant went out, and found one of his fellowservants, which owed him an hundred pence, and he laid hands on him, and took him by the throat, saying, Pay me that thou owest. And his fellowservant fell down. At his feet, and besought him, saying, Have patience with me, and I will pay thee all. And he would not; but went and cast him into prison, till he should pay the debt. "So when his fellowservants saw what was done, they were very sorry, and came and told unto their lord all that was done. Then his lord, after that he had called him, said unto him, O thou wicked servant, I forgave thee all that debt, because thou desirest me: Shouldest not thou also have had compassion on thy fellowservant, even as I had pity on thee? "And his lord was wroth, and delivered him to the tormentors, till he should pay all that was due unto him. So likewise shall my heavenly Father do also unto you, if ye from your hearts for- ' give not every one his brother their trespasses." Jesus, having taught the doctrine of justice, with figurative emphasis, now turns to the parabolic teaching of the doctrine of mercy. In the parable of the unmerciful servant we see a portrayal of the truth that the perfection of justice depends upon mercy. The parable seems to be an answer to Peter's enquiry as to how many times one should forgive another. Among the heathens, the law "an eye for an eye and a tooth for a tooth," prevailed; among the Jews the limit of forgiveness was the fourth offense. Peter's inquiry extended beyond the three when he asked if even the seventh offense should be forgiven, and the announcement, not seven times but seventy times, was a startling one, and even that number was but figurative. This parable has hidden in it the doctrine recorded in the Doctrine and Covenants, Sec. 64:9, 10, 11. The Savior vividly illustrated the beauty of the leniency of love and the ugliness of the oppression of greed. He showed the relationship of bigsouledness and forgiveness. The debt of the unmerciful servant which was forgiven him by the merciful Lord was over three hundred million dollars, while the debt for which the greedy ca a cast his fellowservant into prison was less than twenty ollars The parable brings into play the usual inherent justice of public sentiment and the application of the law announced in the Lord's prayer "Forgive us our debts, as we forgive our debtors." The forgiven debtor forfeited the forgiveness of his lord through unwillingness to forgive his fellowservant. The parable plainly teaches that the moment we become unforgiving we become unworthy of forgiveness. ™ { GUIDE LESSONS — 203 "O hearken, my tongue shall the riddle unseal, And mind shall be partner with heart; While thee to thyself I bid conscience reveal, And show thee how evil thou art. Remember thy follies, thy sins, and thy crimes, How vast is that infinite debt; Yet mercy hath seven by seventy times Been swift to forgive and forget."' The parable makes clear the fact that in Heaven there is no place for the unforgiving. The Lord cannot tolerate the companionship of the unmerciful and be what he is—''A God of mercy." C.. The Laborers in the Vineyard This parable, recorded in Matthew 20:1-16, was called forth by Peter's question recorded in Matthew 19:27, and Peter's questions seems to have been provoked by the Savior's offer of salvation to the rich young man, Matthew 19:16-21. Peter's question had in it an element of dissatisfaction with the Lord's promise of treasures in heaven to the man who had been enjoying wealth and ease while the apostles had been giving _ their all and themselves to the service of the Lord. The answer, recorded in Matthew 19:28, must have been very gratifying to the apostles, as it provided for exaltation as well as the salvation promised in verse twenty-nine, but the statement recorded in verse thirty was full of mystery and possibly caused some apprehension in the minds of those who knew themselves to be first in service. The statement, however, was a recognition of the fact that waiting for employment is more arduous than waiting for pay. Could the apostles have appreciated the inestimable value of the privilege of "following him" i. e., working under his direction and inspiration, they would have recognized that the latecomer, though he received the same material compensation as the early-comer did, could not receive equal with the early employee because the greatest compensation for service in the Kingdom is the privilege of serving. The Lord taught them the lesson that the was the source of heavenly treasure (eternal life, and exaltation) for without him no service can reach these treasures. | After all, wherein is exaltation greater than salvation? The one is a state of preservation from the power of one's enemies; the other is all that and more, it is a state of being able to render superior service. This, the chief difference between salvation and exaltation, is a difference of opportunity to work. The higher the exaltation the greater the work. Work is progressive exaltation. 204. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE QUESTIONS AND: PROBLEMS 1. From what point of view may the parable of the draw net teach the doctrine of gradation of salvation? 2. Correlate the following quotation with the parable of the draw net: "On the silent shore to which we are all moving we shall find each one his peace." 3. Relate the parable of the unmerciful servant and state what, to your mind, is the chief lesson taught by it. 4. What was the heathen basis of settling differences and' what was the Jewish limit of forgiveness at the time of giving this parable? 5. Correlate the doctrine taught by the parable of the unmer- _ciful servant with Doctrine and Covenants 64:9-10 and with the Lord's prayer. 6. Discuss this statement: To ask for forgiveness when one is unwilling to forgive is to ask that the Savior's statement be made untrue. 7. What were the circumstances which brought forth the parable of the laborers in the vineyard? 8. What was the evident object of this parable? 9. From what point of view is the one longest in God's service always best paid? 10. Discuss the following as an expression of the highest desire:,: May life eternal be my share, Under my Redeemer's care. With those I love—eternal joy, Eternal work in God's employ. LESSON II Work and Business (Second Week in June) LESSON III Literature (Third week in June) OLIVER WENDELL HoLmEs Oliver Wendell Holmes is one of the most interesting authors that America has had from the standpoint of personality. He was born in Cambridge, Massachusetts, in 1809, and died in 1894. He comes of one of the old aristocratic families of Boston, having his residence on Beacon Hill. One of his ancestors was Dorothy GUIDE LESSONS 205 Quincy. In this issue of the Magazine we include her portrait and Doctor Holmes' poem Dorothy Q., written to her. Grandmother's mother: her age, I guess, Thirteen summers, or something less; Girlish bust, but womanly air; Smooth, square forehead with uprolled hair; Lips that lover has never kissed; Taper fingers and slender wrist; Hanging sleeves of stiff brocade; So they painted the little maid. On her hand a parrot green Sits unmoving and broods serene. Hold up the canvas full in view,— Look! There's a rent the light shines through, Dark with a century's fringe of dust,— That was a Red-Coat's rapier-thrust! Such is the tale the lady old, Dorothy's daughter's daughter, told. 206 | RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Who the painter was none may tell,— One whose best was not over well; Hard and dry, it must be confessed, Flat as a rose that has long been pressed; Yet in her cheek the hues are bright, Dainty colors of red and white, And in her slender shape are seen Hint and promise of stately mien. Look not on her with eyes of scorn,— Dorothy Q. Was a lady born! Ay! Since the galloping Normans came, England's annals have known her name; And still to the three-hilled rebel town Dear is that ancient name's renown, For many a civic wreath they won, The youthful sire and the gray-haired son. O Damsel Dorothy! Dorothy Q.! Strange is the gift that I owe you; Such a gift as never a king Save to daughter or son might bring,— All my tenure of heart and hand, All my title to house and land; Mother and sister and child and wife And joy and sorrow and death and life! What if a hundred years ago Those close-shut lips had answered No, When forth the tremulous question came That cost the maiden her Norman name, And under the folds that look so still The bodice swelled with the bosom's thrill? Should I be I, or would it be One tenth another, to nine tenths me? Soft is the breath of a maiden's 'Yes: Not the light gossamer stirs with less; But never a cable that holds so fast Through all the battles of wave and blast, And never an echo of speech or song That lives in the babbling air so long! There were tones in the voice that whispered then You may hear to-day in a hundred men. jo GUIDE LESSONS»: 207 O lady and lover, how faint and far Your images hover,—and here we are, Solid and stirring in flesh and bone,— Edward's and Dorothy's—all their own,— A goodly record for Time to show Of a syllable spoken so long ago!— Shall I bless you, Dorothy, or forgive For the tender whisper that bade me live? It shall be a blessing, my little maid! I will heal the stab of the Red-Coat's blade, And freshen the gold of the tarnished frame, And gild with a rhyme your household name; So you shall smile on us brave and bright As first you greeted the morning's light, And live untroubled by woes and fears Through a second youth of a hundred years. Dr. Holmes was educated at Andover Theological Seminary and at Harvard University. He chose medicine as his profession, did some writing on medical subjects, and was, until he reached ° his seventy-third year, professor of Anatomy in the Medical College of Harvard University. Anatomy is usually thought of among medical students, as a rather dry subject, yet Doctor Holmes made it so interesting that he was greeted with applause at the close of each of his.. Lectures, a thing almost unknown in other colleges. He did practice medicine, but it was said that he cured more patients through contact with his life-giving, cheerful personality than through any medical treatment he prescribed. The world knows him chiefly as a poet and it is by his poetry that he will live, nevertheless, at Harvard University they knew him as a man of science. President Eliot said in. Substance, at a banquet given to him at a birthday celebration, "you who are gathered here know Doctor Holmes chiefly as a poet, but on the Harvard campus, we know him chiefly as a physician," and "I want to assure you that he handles the scalpel as skillfully as he does the pen." Doctor Holmes is conspicuous as an occasional poet, and could furnish a. Poem appropriate for practically any occasion. He wrote: "I'm a florist in verse, And what would people say, If I came to a banquet, Without my bouquet." 208 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE He made the class of 1829, of Harvard University, famous, never failing to make a contribution each year when they gathered. We shall take up some of the best known poems to the class of '29 in the next lesson. There is a strain of humor running through much that Holmes has written, consequently, he was always welcome whereever he chanced to be; he was immensely popular in social circles. "Early in life he acquired the reputation of being the best talker ever heard in Boston, and this he maintained unbroken to the end." The last appearance of Holmes in public is so thoroughly worth-while that we include the story in this lesson. The National Teachers' Association was to meet in Boston and the committee felt sure, from the fact that Boston and its environs are so important, historically, that a very large number of teachers would assemble. In this conjecture they were not mistaken, for 20,000 came together, which chanced to be the largest number that had met prior to that time, at any association meeting. The committee wanted to feature some entertainment that would be especially attractive to the teachers, so they suggested a literary dinner. But said one of their number, "Trowbridge and Thomas Bailey Aldrich would hardly fit the situation and the others are all gone." They felt this to be true because Doctor Holmes had grown so feeble that he was no longer appearing in public. Said one, "If we could just manage to have Doctor Holmes, it would be the most unique entertainment that we could possibly offer"; so the committee made up its mind to see what could be done. The committee waited on Doctor Holmes, and he called his physician who told him that if the day was clear, and he'd promise not to shake hands with anyone, and not take part on the program, he might attend the banquet. The entertainment was announced and there was a scramble for tickets, for everybody knew that it would, in all probability, be Doctor Holmes' last appearance in public. When the day arrived the poet disobeyed orders. The day was murky, but he left his home. He was placed on the platform off from the company, but when he recognized in the group so many of his old friends he refused to be off by himself and insisted on shaking hands with them. When the banquet had almost concluded, he requested the privilege of taking part, drawing from his pocket a poem written for the occasion, entitled The Teacher. His introduction to his book of poems is especially good, so we are including it in the lesson: GUIDE LESSONS 209 ~ TO MY READERS Nay, blame me not; I might have spared Your patience many a trivial verse, Yet these my earlier welcome shared, So, let the better shield the worse. And some might say, "Those ruder songs Had freshness which the new have lost; To spring the opening leaf belongs, The chestnut-burs await the frost." When those I wrote, my locks were brown, When these I write—ah, well-a-day! The autumn thistle's silvery down Is not the purple bloom of May! Go, little book, whose pages hold Those garnered years in loving trust; How long before your blue and gold Shall fade and whiten in the dust? O sexton of the alcoved tomb, Where souls in leathern cerements lie, - Tell me each living poet's doom! How long before his book shall die? It matters little, soon or late, A day, a month, a year, an age,— I read oblivion in its date, And Finis on its title-page. Before we sighed, our griefs were told; Before we smiled, our joys were sung: And all our passions shaped of old In accents lost to mortal tongue. In vain a fresher mould we seek,— Can all the varied phrases tell That Babel's wandering children speak How thrushes sing or lilacs smell? Caged in the poet's lonely heart, Love wastes unheard its tenderest tone; The soul that sings must dwell apart, Its inward melodies unknown. Deal gently with us, ye who read! Our largest hope, is unfulfilled,— The promise still outruns the deed,— The tower, but not the spire, we build. 210  RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Our whitest pearl we never find; —- Our ripest fruit we never. Reach; The flowering moments of the mind Drop half their petals in our speech. These are my blossoms; if they wear One streak. Of morn or evening's glow, Accept them; but to me more fair The buds of song that never blow. Soon after Holmes finished his work at Andover, a matter in the public press so stirred his soul that he wrote Old Ironsides. The story goes, that "in the Charleston Navy Yard, at this time, was the old frigate Constitution, which the government proposed to break up as unfit for service, thoughtless of the desecration. "The poem, the first to make its author famous, was written in 1830, and first published in The Boston Advertiser. From these columns it was extensively copied by other newspapers throughout the country, and handbills containing the verses were circulated in Washington. The eloquent, patriotic outburst not only brought instant fame to the young poet, but so thoroughly aroused the heart of the people that the grand old vessel was saved from destruction." OLD IRONSIDES Ay, tear her tattered ensign down! Long has it waved on high, And many an eye has danced to see That banner in the sky; Beneath it rung the battle shout, And burst the cannon's roar;— The meteor of the ocean air Shall sweep the clouds no more! Her deck, once red with heroes' blood, Where knelt the vanquished foe, When winds were hurrying o'er the flood, And waves were white below, No more shall feel the victor's tread, Or know the conquered knee;— The harpies of the shore shall pluck The eagle of the sea! GUIDE LESSONS —_ aii O better that her shattered hulk Should sink beneath the wave; Her thunders shook the mighty deep, And there should be her grave; Nail to the mast her holy flag, Set every threadbare sail, And give her to the god of storms, The lightning and the gale! I feel sure that it will be of interest to our readers to know that Doctor Holmes, as well as being one of the first and one of the most gifted contributors to the Atlantic Monthly, was the person who gave the magazine its name. Concerning this matter, William Dean Howells said at the celebration on the anniversary of his seventieth birthday: "The fact is known to you all, and I will not insist upon it, but it was Oliver Wendell Holmes who not only named, but who made the Atlantic. How did he do this? Oh, very simply! He merely invented a new kind of literature, something so beautiful and rare and fine that while you were trying to determine its character as monologue or colloquy, prose or poetry, philosophy or humor, it was gradually penetrating your conscience with a sense that the best of all these had been fused in one—a perfect form, an exquisite wisdom, an unsurpassable grace."
In our last lesson we gave you Lowell's poem, Under the Washington Elm, In this lesson we shall include Holmes' poem, Under the Washington Elm:
Eighty years have passed, and more, Since under the brave old tree Our fathers gathered in arms, and swore They would follow the sign their banners bore, And fight till the land was free.
Half of their work was done, Half is left to do,— Cambridge, and Concord, and Lexington! When the battle is fought and won, What shall be told of you?
Hark!—'tis the south-wind moans,— Who are the martyrs down? Ah, the marrow was true in your children's bones That sprinkled with blood the cursed stones Of the murder-haunted town!
212 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
What if the storm-clouds blow? What if the green leaves fall? Better the crashing tempest's throe Than the army of worms that gnawed below; Trample them one and all!
Then, when the battle is won, And the land from traitors free, Our children shall tell of the strife begun When Liberty's second April sun Was bright on our brave old tree!
Holmes lives to be eighty-three, dying just about a year after England's laureate poet, Alfred Tennyson. He lived long enough to write the epitaph of all his brother singers, of the New England group, and practically wrote his own in the poem, The Last Leaf, which we include:
"I saw him once before, As he passed by the door, And again The pavement stones resound, As he totters o'er the ground With his cane.
"They say that in his prime, Ere the pruning-knife of Time Cut him down, Not a better man was found By the Crier on his round Through the town.
"But now he walks the streets, And he looks at all he meets Sad and wan, And he shakes his feeble head, That it seems as if he said, 'They are gone.'
"The mossy marbles rest On the lips that he has pressed In their bloom, And the names he loved to hear Have been carved for many a year On the tomb.
GUIDE LESSONS 213
"My grandmamma has said— Poor old lady, she is dead Long ago— That he had a Roman nose, And his cheek was like a rose In the snow.
"But now his nose is thin, And it rests upon his chin Like a staff, And a crook is in his back, And a melancholy crack In his laugh.
"I know it is a sin For me to sit and grin At him here; But the old three-cornered hat, And the breeches, and all that, Are so queer!
"And if I should live to be The last leaf upon the tree In the spring, Let them smile, as I do now, At the old forsaken bough Where I cling."
Questions and Problems
1. Select the two lines from Holmes' poem To My Readers that describe the poet in his old age.
2. How does Holmes describe a librarian in this poem?
3. What idea is the poet trying to convey in the last stanza?
4. What emotion do you think prompted and inspired the writing of Old Ironsides?
5. Compare Lowell's lines Under the Washington Elm and Holmes' on the same subject.
6. Which of the two poets do you think has been most successful in his tribute? Tell Why?
7. Read with care the last three stanzas of the poem The Last Leaf and tell what you think of it as descriptive poetry.
8. Select a comparison in the fifth stanza that you think is especially happy.
9. Turn to the picture of Dorothy Q in the Magazine and see how portrait and poem compare.
214 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
LESSON IV Social Service (Fourth Week in June)
INTERPRETING SOCIAL DIFFICULTIES
The process of gathering the facts of a family's or an individual's social problems should be accompanied by another conscious process. In learning the facts of a difficult situation, the person, who attempts to be helpful in bringing about a solution of the problem, very early endeavors to interpret the nature and causes of the situation. The social adviser works much in the same manner that a doctor does when he studies his patient, observing the symptoms—the temperature, the pulse, the respiration, the infected areas, etc., meanwhile interpreting the symptoms and arriving at a diagnosis.
The process of interpretation in working with social problems comes into operation soon after observation begins. But even though symptoms or evidences of difficulties may be quite obvious, it may take days or even weeks before these various social symptoms can be related to one another and expressed in terms of a diagnosis. In the meantime the several elements that make for normal standards and normal living should be studied and analyzed and treated. Unsatisfactory health, employment, income, shelter, housekeeping, school attendance, etc., should all be observed and treated during the process of study. Later, these elements should be related to one another so that an understanding of the whole difficulty is reached.
To be able to select the important, the permanent, and significant factors from the unimportant, the transitory, and the irrelevant factors in a situation is the secret of successful social interpretation. No definite set of instructions can be given as to what should be done when ill-health, delinquency, or discouragement assail an individual. The study and interpretation must be personal, individual and varying. Which elements should receive attention and emphasis is, of course, controlled by the particular situation.
Perhaps a simple illustration will give these generalizations more meaning. An elderly couple lived in convenient pleasant rooms in a comfortable home. A small pension covered the expense of their simple, daily needs, but the loss of a pocket-book created a temporary distress. They had no friends or relatives to whom they could appeal at this time. In fact, they seemed very much alone. They did not go out much, for they had no place in particular to go. They had never had children. The woman had no relatives in this country and the man's sisters and brothers had
GUIDE LESSONS 215
all died over twenty years before, and he had lost all trace of his nieces and nephews. They had met better fortune and had married well—one niece to a man who worked in a bank.
The resourceful, social-minded friend succeeded in doing much for this lonely couple. She heard the story of their present misfortune and also listened to many reminiscences which they enjoyed telling to a sympathetic friend. During her calls on them she was friendly and interested and cared for their immediate needs, but meanwhile she consciously and deliberately studied their lives attempting to select and emphasize in her treatment the important elements of the situation.
Although they talked of many early experiences, their school and work, the friend realized that school marks and training and work records had no great significance, for their careers of training and working were over. She was, however, alert for names of early friends or relatives, who, though now separated for a long period, might still be interested in renewing the broken ties. She learned the particulars of the pension. She, of course, was interested in their health, but nothing indicated the need of medical advice at this time. She brought them books to read, and succeeded in getting them to attend a party in the neighborhood. But while she was supplementing the income, supervising their health, and supplying diversion and recreation, she came more and more to understand that the elderly, lonely couple were lonely because they were completely separated from their past and because the natural bonds of friendship and family had been entirely broken.
A niece was located. A series of letters starting with the business school where the uncle had last heard of the niece, and including her first employer, and the bank in which her husband was formerly employed, finally brought to light her present whereabouts. The banker and his wife, now both middle-aged themselves, were as pleased as the old couple when the introductions were made. Other nieces and nephews and their children were brought into the picture and the bonds of the past were happily rewelded. The loneliness of the couple's declining years was much relieved to the great satisfaction of the alert, understanding friend, who had conscientiously, painstakingly, and deliberately searched for the information that resulted in such a pleasant end.
Reference: Normal Life—The Individual Normal Life, pages
1. Why is it impossible to determine instantly or quickly the nature of a social difficulty?
2. Why were school records unimportant in the illustration?
3. Give an example where school records would be of great importance.
216 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
4. Why is it desirable to connect people with relatives from whom they have become separated or estranged?
5. If the niece had been estranged instead of separated, might the friend still have succeeded in bringing about a reunion? How might she have proceeded?
TEACHERS' TOPIC FOR JUNE
Recreation
"If thou art merry, praise the Lord with singing, with music, with dancing and with a prayer of praise and thanksgiving." Doc. And Cov. Sec. 136:28.
A. Discuss careful preparation for recreation and amusement during the summer holidays. B. Avoid extremes and excesses in patronage of resorts, at the same time enjoy in moderation and seek the out-of-doors.
SUMMER SCHOOL FOR HALF A CENTURY
THE BRIGHAM YOUNG UNIVERSITY Has had one ideal— "To train Citizens and Teachers for the most complete Service and the highest type of Leadership."
Three complete Demonstration Schools in which problems may be worked out will be organized this summer.
THE 1924 SUMMER QUARTER BEGINS JUNE 9: THE SECOND TERM JULY 21 AT ASPEN GROVE
Faculty Members and Lecturers: Dr. David Snedden, Columbia. Dr. Adam S. Bennion, Supt. Church Schools, Dr. Walter R. Smith, Kansas. Dr. Merritt Y. Hughes, California. Dr. H. B. Wilson, Supt. of Schools, Berkeley, Cal. Dr. Horace Secrist, Northwestern. Dr. Raymond R. Frandsen, California. Dr. Henry C. Cowles, Chicago. Dr. T. W. Galloway, New York. Prof. W. A. McKeever, Lawrence, Kansas. Mrs. Dorothy Nyswander, California. Many Major Profs. of B. Y. U. And Others.
Write for Particulars.
Summer's Cool at Y Summer School.
BRIGHAM YOUNG UNIVERSITY PROVO, UTAH
A NATIONAL Summer School
"America's greatest summer faculty," exactly describes the opportunity the Utah Agricultural College is presenting to you from June 9 to July 18. Twenty-three distinguished scholars, each the outstanding authority in his field, will conduct credit courses—popular and advanced—or give series of lectures. Special courses for certification of teachers in service or training.
The following lines will be amply represented: Education and Psychology, Primary and Elementary Teaching,
SPECIAL TEACHING FACULTY Prof. Allee, Zoology, University of Chicago. Dr. Fae Rommel Leadership, Yale, Harvard. Prof. Blackwelder, Geology, Stanford. Prof. Tisai, Rural Sociology, Cornell. Prof. Yoakam, English, University of Pittsburgh. Prof. Cowles, Botany, University of Chicago. Prof. Franzen, Education, University of California. Prof. Knappen, Geology, University of Kansas. Prof. Merk, History, Harvard. Dr. McLain, Health Education. Prof. McCollum, Human Nutrition, Johns Hopkins. Prof. Reed, Agricultural Engineering, Ohio State U. Miss Ella Shearer, Primary and Elementary Teaching. Prof. Bainer, Agricultural Engineering. Prof. Miner, History, Harvard. Dr. Wood, Physical and Health Education, Columbia.
SPECIAL LECTURERS. Dr. Adams, University of California. Dr. Wm. G. Anderson, Liberty Hyde Bailey, Dr. Edward Steiner, Dr. A. E. Winship.
History, Geology and Physical Geography, Botany, Physical and Health Education, Recreational Leadership, Economics, Zoology, Rural Life, English and Literature.
Field Trips and excursions to places of scenic and educational interest—both during and after the summer session.
Living conditions in Logan pleasant and inexpensive. Board and room $20 month and up.
FIRST TERM: JUNE 9 TO JULY 18 SECOND TERM: JULY 21 TO AUGUST 29.
Fee $25 for 6 or 12 weeks. Write for catalog.
Utah Agricultural College Logan Utah
Compare the Pages of The Deseret News with those of any other paper. Notice that while the paper is clean and fit for any child to read it is also interesting and informative in the highest sense—And you get "TODAY'S NEWS TODAY"
BEST IN THE MARKET WILL LAST A LIFE TIME 36 GLASSES IN EACH TRAY
RECOMMENDED BY PATRONS. REFERENCES FURNISHED
Made especially for L. D. S. Churches, and successfully used in Utah and Intermountain region, also in all Missions in the United States, Europe, and Pacific Islands. Base metal, Nickel Silver, heavily plated with Solid Silver.
SIMPLE, SANITARY, DURABLE
Satisfaction guaranteed. Inquiries cheerfully answered
THE LATEST ACKNOWLEDGEMENT
Bishop's Office, Bern, Idaho, May 2, 1921. "I am in receipt of the Individual Sacrament Set, consisting of four trays and the proper number of glasses. Everything arrived in good condition. We are very pleased with it. I take this occasion to thank you for your kindness."
BUREAU OF INFORMATION Temple Block Salt Lake City
Glazier and Taylor HOSIERY COMPANY 33 EAST BROADWAY
A Store Dealing in Quality Hosiery and Underwear Exclusively
Heavy Silk Full-Fashioned, all colors A wonderful hose for wear Per Pair $2.00 Box of Three Pairs $5.75
Silk Semi-Fashioned, all colors, beautiful and durable Per Pair $1.50 Box of Three Pairs $4.25
Reinforced Top, the Comfort Stocking Per Pair $1.25
Pure Silk Semi-Fashioned, very durable All Colors Per Pair $1.05 Box of Three Pairs $3.00
MAIL ORDERS PREPAID
A Book of Poems "The Beautiful Valley of Utah" By Mrs. J. Long, 20c per copy. Eureka, Utah, Box 129. When ordering mention Relief Society Magazine.
THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE desires to obtain the following numbers of the magazine: 5 February, 1923 numbers 2 August, 1921 numbers 5 March, 1923 numbers 2 October, 1921 numbers
3 April, 1919 numbers 2 September, 1921 numbers 1 September, 1920 numbers 6 November, 1921 numbers 2 January, 1921 numbers
Please notify this office how many you can furnish of each before sending them in. We pay 20c per copy.
Silk with Extra Stretch Elastic
To Our Magazine Subscribers
We call your attention to the very high class firms who advertise in the Magazine, and ask, whenever possible, to give them your patronage. Also kindly mention having read their advertisement in the Magazine. We hope by your assistance to prove our value as a medium through which to advertise.
Magazine Management.
Its Always Open Season for PIERCE PUMPKIN
A Holiday Treat
All cooked, ready for use in your favorite recipe—it makes the most appetizing pie imaginable.
Everlastingly backed by THE UTAH CANNING CO., Ogden. Since 1888
To the Agents and Friends of the Magazine who are Taking Subscriptions:
It was unanimously decided at the October Conference by the officers and members present rather than raise the price of the magazine, we would ask the agents and friends for the present to secure subscriptions without the customary 10 per cent discount. We call your attention to the fact that many of the subscriptions received so far have had the percentage deducted, which is not in accordance with the general understanding of the Magazine management and officers present at the conference.
Will you kindly give this matter your attention and give these facts as wide publicity as possible in order that the subscriptions which we receive hereafter, will be accompanied with the full amount of the price of the magazine, which is $1.00.
Sincerely, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE.
"The finest, purest grade of Olive Oil you can buy— made from only the choicest ripe olives and imported from France. Fresh, nutritious and rich in flavor, it gives you most satisfying results in dressings and salads. Once you try it, you will always insist on the Blue Pine brand.
And for sacred uses—its purity makes it the ideal choice.
Other products BANCROFT PRODUCT
VOL. XI MAY, 1924
CONTENTS
Brigham Young University Summer School: Frontispiece The Essence of a Tear! Dr. George W. Middleton 219 How My Mother Got Her Soft Face. J. M. Barrie 221 Portrait of Mother of James Matthew Barrie 222 Editorial—Mothers 228 The Bereft at Castle Gate 229 "A Mother Was Born" 231 Efficient Motherhood Claire Stewart Boyer 232 Getting Ready for Cousin Alice Annie Pike Greenwood 236 A Half Century of Educational Progress 244 Something to Think About Dr. Heber J. Grant 249 The Psalmist David, a Modern Singer H. R. Merrill 253 Notes from the Field Amy Brown Lyman 259 Relief Society Annual Report; Amy Brown Lyman 265 Teachers' Topic for July 268 Mothers' Day Florence Pyne Billings 269
Organ of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints Room 29 Bishop's Bldg. Salt Lake City, Utah $1.00 a Year—Single Copy, 10c Canada and Foreign, $1.25 a Year—15c Single Copy
Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah
Salesmen to represent an L. D. S. Firm in selling knit goods direct to the public in all states. Liberal Commission and low prices coupled with A1 quality.
HOME PIONEER KNITTING FACTORY 438 East 7th South Salt Lake City, Utah
Ladies of the Relief Society and Other Organizations
Order your flowers from the
Ideal Floral Company Fresh Cut Flowers Every Morning 38 South Main. Phone Wasatch 3414 Night Phone Hyland 5303-W
Temple and Burial Clothes Complete Suits For Men and Women Variety of Grades and Prices Prompt and Careful Attention to Mail—Telephone—Telegraph Orders
Open Daily, 9 A. M.—5 P. M.
General Board Relief Society 23 Bishop's Building Salt Lake City, Utah Phone Wasatch 3286
Make A Health Garden
A vegetable garden is a vitally important factor to the health of the entire family. Science has discovered those necessary vitamines are found chiefly in vegetables. Our Seed and Nursery Guide Book will help you in planning both the Vegetable and Flower Garden. Write for Free Copy Today
Porter-Walton Company SALT LAKE CITY
When writing for copy mention Relief Society Magazine
A Gift for Graduation
W. M. McCONAHAY THE JEWELER Salt Lake City, Utah
When Shopping Mention Relief Society Magazine
Drink BAKER'S COCOA Every Day
It is so delicious, so strengthening, so healthful, contains so much valuable food material that it should be used every day.
Booklet of Choice Recipes sent Free
WALTER BAKER & CO., Ltd. Established 1780 DORCHESTER, MASS.
64 So. Main Phone Was. 1821
IMPROVED L. D. S. GARMENTS
The "Temple Brand" garments are handled by leading dealers, if you cannot get just what you want select it from this list and send order direct to us. We prepay postage to all parts of the United States. Samples submitted on request.
GARMENTS WITH STRINGS Style Price Style Price No. 15 Extra Spe. Flat Weave 1.50 No. 25 Double Back Lt. Wt. 1.85
NEW STYLE WITH BUTTONS AND LONG OR SHORT SLEEVES For Ladies: For Men: Style Price Style Price Super No. 2 Ribbed super cot 1.25 No. 950 Lisle Lt. Wt. 2.15 No. 803 Ribbed Lt. Wt. 1.65 No. 925 Ribbed Med. Wt. 2.00
SAVE AGENT'S COMMISSION—BUY DIRECT FROM FACTORY
Salt Lake Knitting Store
In sending orders mention Magazine
Ask your dealer for Z. C. M. I. Factory Made
Kiddies' Allovers DUTCH CUT
They are the famous Mountaineer Brand in dark blue, light blue, striped and khaki
Mothers—they are just what you need for the little tots—and the kiddies like them too
Salt Lake City, Utah
"MAY" By Ivy Houtz Woolley
Dreams, sweet iridescent dreams With colors woven through, And snowy pearls stitched here and there Upon a sky of blue; The sunset paints a picture rare, In every nook and space, The clouds are rosy tissues sheer Piled high with golden lace.
The quivering heat waves swimming by Reveal the blue scarf of the sky. A young thrush sounds his golden notes Then lightly into ether floats.
Sweet pink-lipped apple blossoms breathe Their perfume, and the branches wreathe With tender buds and waxen bloom; Gay butterflies burst from their tomb And dance their full gay lives away Around the loveliness of May.
Photo by Walter Cottam BRIGHAM YOUNG UNIVERSITY SUMMER SCHOOL, ASPEN GROVE
THE Relief Society Magazine
Vol. XI MAY, 1924 No. 5
The Essence of a Tear By Dr. George W. Middleton
A chemist sat in his spacious shop While the multitude passed his door; In the pride of his heart he followed his art And thrived on the chemist's lore.
He had tested, by means of his spectroscope, The essence of stars and sun, And proved that the earth from her nebulous birth And the universe are one.
The tiniest bit of a phial was brought Containing a mother's tear,— The quintessent part of a mother's heart Distilled in a liquid sphere.
Great sage, who has reached by analysis The depths of the Milky Way, Since you are so wise, please analyze This precious drop, I pray.
So much water, and so much salt, For tears are all made of brine; Some indican blue, of an infinite hue,— The simples were linked in line.
This is the record which science gave Of the essence of a tear; Just cold and concise, like an invoice of ice, As it fell on the listening ear.
220 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
But it failed to discover the breaking heart Which was back of that gushing tear, Or to touch on the cause of the infinite laws Which determine our destiny here.
For a brave, fair boy, in the bloom of youth, With a blush on his manly face, Where a mother's kiss, in an hour of bliss, Had left its lingering trace,
Went forth to the front with the Stars and Stripes, When his country made its call; In the maddening roar of the battle's fore, He was one of the first to fall.
All draped in the folds of his own loved flag, With taps at the close of day, In his place in the row where the poppies blow They laid him in sadness away.
And a mother's heart went into that grave, And a mother pays the cost, In oceans of tears through the infinite years, For each boy that our wars have lost.
But science is dead to these things of the soul, Their dicta lie not in her course; She knows but dimension and modes of extension, And blind application of force.
The heart when it speaks knows no limiting bounds, But goes back of the tear to its cause, In the white heat of passion discovers the fashion Of Nature's great infinite laws.
Dissolved in this tear was a patriot's faith, And a mother's heart in a storm, But worldly men with the chemist's ken Saw only the outward form.
But the inward eye saw God enthroned In this miniature world of a tear, For all things of worth, both in heaven and earth, Are brought to focus here.
How my Mother got her Soft Face J. M. Barrie
On the day I was born we bought six hair-bottomed chairs, and in our little house it was an event, the first great victory in a woman's long campaign; how they had been labored for, the pound-note and the thirty three-penny bits they cost, what anxiety there was about the purchase, the show they made in possession of the west room, my father's unnatural coolness when he brought them in (but his face was white)—I so often heard the tale afterwards, and shared as boy and man in so many similar triumphs, that the coming of the chairs seems to be something I remember, as if I had jumped out of bed on that first day, and run ben to see how they looked. I am sure my mother's feet were settling to be ben long before they could be trusted, and that the moment after she was left alone with me she was discovered barefooted in the west room, doctoring a scar (which she had been the first to detect) on one of the chairs, or sitting on them regally or withdrawing and re-opening the door suddenly to take the six by surprise. And then, I think, a shawl was flung over her (it is strange to me to think it was not I who ran after her with the shawl), and she was escorted sternly back to bed and reminded that she had promised not to budge, to which her reply was probably that she had been gone but an instant, and the implication that therefore she had not been gone at all. Thus was one little bit of her revealed to me at once: I wonder if I took note of it.
Neighbors came in to see the boy and the chairs. I wonder if she deceived me when she affected to think that there were others like us, or whether I saw through her from the first; she was so easily seen through. When she seemed to agree with them that it would be impossible to give me a college education, was I so easily taken in, or did I know already what ambitions burned behind that dear face? When they spoke of the chairs as the goal quickly reached, was I such a newcomer that her timid lips must say, "They are but a beginning", before I heard the words? And when we were left together, did I laugh at the great things that were in her mind, or had she to whisper them to me first, and then did I put my arm round her and tell her that I would help? Thus it was for such a long time: it is strange to me to feel that it was not so from the beginning.
It is all guess-work for six years, and she whom I see in them is the woman who came suddenly into view when they were at an end. Her timid lips I have said, but they were not timid
THE MOTHER OF JAMES MATTHEW BARRIE AUTHOR OF FAMOUS BRITISH CLASSICS
HOW MY MOTHER GOT HER SOFT FACE 223
then, and when I knew her the timid lips had come. The soft face—they say the face was not so soft then. The shawl that was flung over her—we had not begun to hunt her with a shawl, nor to make our bodies a screen between her and the draughts. Nor to creep into her room a score of times in the night to stand looking at her as she slept. We did not see her becoming little then, nor sharply turn our heads when she said wonderingly how small her arms had grown. In her happiest moments—and never was a happier woman—her mouth did not of a sudden begin to twitch, and tears to lie on the mute blue eyes in which I have read all I know and would ever care to write. For when you looked into my mother's eyes you knew, as if He had told you, why God sent her into the world—it was to open the minds of all who looked to beautiful thoughts. And that is the beginning and end of literature. Those eyes that I could not see until I was six years old have guided me through life, and I pray God they may remain my only earthly judge to the last. They were never more my guide than when I helped to put her to earth, not whimpering because my mother had been taken away after seventy-six glorious years of life, but exulting in her even at the grave.
She had a son who was far away at school. I remember very little about him, only that he was a merry-faced boy who ran like a squirrel up a tree and shook the cherries into my lap. When he was thirteen and I was half his age the terrible news came, and I have been told the face of my mother was awful in its calmness as she set off to get between Death and her boy. We trooped with her down the brae to the wooden station, and I think I was envying her the journey in the mysterious wagons; I know we played around her, proud of our right to be there, but I do not recall it, I only speak from hearsay. Her ticket was taken, she had bidden us goodbye with that fighting face which I cannot see, and then my father came out of the telegraph-office and said huskily, "He's gone!" Then we turned very quietly and went home again up the little brae. But I speak from hearsay no longer; I knew my mother forever now.
That is how she got her soft face and her pathetic ways and her large charity, and why other mothers ran to her when they had lost a child. "Dinna greet, poor Janet,' she would say to them, and they would answer, "Ah, Margaret, but you're greeting yoursel'." Margaret Ogilvy had been her maiden name, and after the Scotch custom she was still Margaret Ogilvy to her old friends. Margaret Ogilvy I loved to name her. Often when I was a boy, "Margaret Ogilvy, are you there?' I would call up the stair.
She was always delicate from that hour, and for many months she was very ill. I have heard that the first thing she
224 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
expressed a wish to see was the christening robe, and she looked long at it and then turned her face to the wall. That was what made me as a boy think of it always as the robe in which he was christened, but I knew later that we had all been christened in it, from the oldest of the family to the youngest, between whom stood twenty years. Hundreds of other children were christened in it also, such robes being then a rare possession, and the lending of ours among my mother's glories. It was carried carefully from house to house, as if it were itself a child; my mother made much of it, smoothed it out, petted it, smiled to it before putting it into the arms of those to whom it was being lent; she was in our pew to see it borne magnificently (something inside it now) down the aisle to the pulpit side, when a stir of expectancy went through the church and we kicked each other's feet beneath the bookboard but were reverent in the face; and however the child might behave, laughing brazenly or skirling to its mother's shame, and whatever the father as he held it up might do, look doited probably and bow at the wrong time, the christening robe of long experience helped them through. And when it was brought back to her she took it in her arms as softly as if it might be asleep, and unconsciously pressed it to her breast: there was never anything in the house that spoke to her quite so eloquently as that little white robe; it was the one of her children that always remained a baby. And she had not made it herself, which was the most wonderful thing about it to me, for she seemed to have made all other things. All the clothes in the house were of her making, and you don't know her in the least if you think they were out of the fashion; she turned them and made them new again, she beat them and made them new again, and then she coaxed them into being new again just for the last time, she let them out and took them in and put on new braid, and added a piece up the back, and thus they passed from one member of the family to another until they reached the youngest, and even when we were done with them they reappeared as something else. In the fashion! I must come back to this. Never was a woman such an eye for it. She had no fashion-plates; she did not need them. The minister's wife (a cloak), the banker's daughters (the new sleeve)—they had but to pass our window once, and the scalp, so to speak, was in my mother's hands. Observe her rushing, scissors in hand, thread in mouth, to the drawers where her daughters' Sabbath clothes were kept. Or go to church next Sunday, and watch a certain family filing in, the boy lifting his legs high to show off his new boots, but all the others demure, especially the timid, unobservant looking little woman in the rear of them. If you were the minister's wife that day or the banker's daughters you would have got a shock. But she bought the
HOW MY MOTHER GOT HER SOFT FACE 225
christening robe, and when I used to ask why, she would beam and look conscious, and say she wanted to be extravagant once. And she told me, still smiling, that the more a woman was given to stitching and making things for herself, the greater was her passionate desire now and again to rush to the shops and "be foolish." The christening robe with its pathetic frills is over half a century old now, and has begun to droop a little, like a daisy whose time is past, but it is as fondly kept together as ever; I saw it in use again only the other day.
My mother lay in bed with the christening robe beside her, and I peeped in many times at the door and then went to the stair and sat on it and sobbed. I know not if it was that first day, or many days afterwards, that there came to me my sister, the daughter my mother loved the best, yes, more I am sure even than she loved me, whose great glory she has been since I was six years old. This sister, who was then passing out of her teens, came to me with a very anxious face and wringing her hands, and she told me to go ben to my mother and say to her that she still had another boy. I went ben excitedly, but the room was dark, and when I heard the door shut and no sound come from the bed I was afraid, and I stood still. I suppose I was breathing hard, or perhaps I was crying, for after a time I heard a listless voice that had never been listless before say, "Is that you?" I think the tone hurt me, for I made no answer, and then the voice said more anxiously, "Is that you?" again. I thought it was the dead boy she was speaking to, and I said in a little lonely voice, "No, it's not him, it's just me." Then I heard a cry, and my mother turned in bed, and though it was dark I knew that she was holding out her arms.
After that I sat a great deal in her bed trying to make her forget him, which was my crafty way of playing physician, and if I saw any one out of doors do something that made the others laugh I immediately hastened to that dark room and did it before her. I suppose I was an odd little figure; I have been told that my anxiety to brighten her gave my face a strained look and put a tremor into the joke (I would stand on my head in the bed, my feet against the wall, and then cry excitedly, "Are you laughing, mother?')—and perhaps what made her laugh was something I was unconscious of, but she did laugh suddenly now and then, whereupon I screamed exultantly to that dear sister, who was ever in waiting, to come and see the sight, but by the time she came the soft face was wet again. Thus I was deprived of some of my glory, and I remember once only making her laugh before witnesses, I kept a record of her laughs on a piece of paper, a stroke for each, and it was my custom to show this proudly to the doctor every morning. There were five strokes
226 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
the first time I slipped it into his hand, and when their meaning was explained to him, he laughed so boisterously that I cried, "I wish that was one of hers!' Then he was sympathetic, and asked me if my mother had seen the paper yet, and when I shook my head he said that if I showed it to her now and told her that these were her five laughs he thought I might win another. I had less confidence, but he was the mysterious man whom you ran for in the dead of night (you flung sand at his window to waken him, and if it was only toothache he extracted the tooth through the open window, but when it was something sterner he was with you in the dark square at once, like a man who slept in his topcoat), so I did as he bade me, and not only did she laugh then but again when I put the laugh down, so that though it was really one laugh with a tear in the middle I counted it as two.
It was doubtless that same sister who told me not to sulk when my mother lay thinking of him, but to try instead to get her to talk about him. I did not see how this could make her the merry mother she used to be, but I was told that if I could not do it nobody could, and this made me eager to begin. At first, they say, I was often jealous, stopping her fond memories with the cry, "Do you mind nothing about me?" but that did not last; its place was taken by an intense desire (again, I think, my sister must have breathed it into life) to become so like him that even my mother should not see the difference, and many and artful were the questions I put to that end. Then I practiced in secret, but after a whole week had passed I was still rather like myself. He had such a cheery way of whistling, she had told me, it had always brightened her at her work to hear him whistling, and when he whistled he stood with his legs apart, and his hands in the pockets of his knickerbockers. I decided to trust to this, so one day after I had learned his whistle (every boy of enterprise invents a whistle of his own) from the boys who had been his comrades, I secretly put on a suit of his clothes, dark grey they were, with little spots, and they fitted me many years afterwards, and thus disguised I slipped, unknown to the others, into my mother's room. Quaking, I doubt not, yet so pleased, I stood still until she saw me, and then—how it must have hurt her! "Listen!" I cried in a glow of triumph, and I stretched my legs apart and plunged my hands into the pockets of my knickerbockers, and began to whistle.
She lived twenty-nine years after his death—such active years, until toward the end, that you never knew where she was unless you took hold of her—and though she was frail henceforth and ever growing frailer, her housekeeping again became famous, so that brides called as a matter of course to watch her calming and sanding and stitching: there are old people still, one or two,
HOW MY MOTHER GOT HER SOFT FACE 227
to tell with wonder in their eyes how she could bake twenty-four bannocks in the hour, and not a chip in one of them. And how many she gave away, how much she gave away of all she had, and what pretty ways she had of giving it! Her face beamed and rippled with mirth as before, and her laugh, that I had tried so hard to force, came running home again. I have heard no such laugh as hers save from merry children; the laughter of most of us ages, and wears out with the body, but hers remained gleeful to the last, as if it were born afresh every morning. There was always something of the child in her, and her laugh was its voice, as eloquent of the past to me as was the christening robe to her. But I had not made her forget the bit of her that was dead; in those nine and twenty years he was not removed one day farther from her. Many a time she fell asleep speaking to him, and even while she slept her lips moved and she smiled as if he had come back to her, and when she woke he might vanish so suddenly that she started up bewildered and looked about her, and then said slowly, "My David's dead!" or perhaps he remained long enough to whisper why he must leave her now, and then she lay silent with filmy eyes. When I became a man and he was still a boy of thirteen, I wrote a little paper called "Dead this Twenty Years," which was about a similar tragedy in another woman's life, and it is the only thing I have written that she never spoke about, not even to that daughter she loved the best. No one ever spoke of it to her, or asked her if she had read it: one does not ask a mother if she knows that there is a little coffin in the house. She read many times the book in which it is printed, but when she came to that chapter she would put her hands to her heart or even over her ears.
EDITORIAL
Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah
Motto—Charity Never Faileth
THE GENERAL BOARD
MRS. CLARISSA SMITH. WILLIAMS President MRS. JENNIE BRIMHALL KNIGHT First Counselor MRS. LOUISE YATES ROBISON Second Counselor MRS. AMY BROWN LYMAN General Secretary and Treasurer
Mrs. Emma A. Empey Mrs. Lotta Paul Baxter Mrs. Ethel Reynolds Smith Mrs. Jeanette A. Hyde Mrs. Julia A. Child Mrs. Barbara Howell Richards Miss Sarah M. McLelland Mrs. Cora L. Bennion Mrs. Rosannah C. Irvine Mrs. Annie Wells Cannon Mrs. Julia A. F. Lund Miss Alice Louise Reynolds Mrs. Lalene H. Hart Mrs. Amy Whipple Evans Mrs. Lizzie Thomas Edward, Music Director Miss Edna Coray, Organist
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
Editor CLARISSA SMITH WILLIAMS Associate Editor ALICE LOUISE REYNOLDS Business Manager JEANETTE A. HYDE Assistant Manager AMY BROWN LYMAN
Room 29, Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah
Vol. XI MAY, 1924. No. 5
Mothers
A year ago in the Mother's edition of the Magazine, we talked of the Pioneer mother, of the Little Girl mother of France, and of the Modern Mother. This year we are going to speak of a group of women who have longed for motherhood, but whose. Hopes are, as yet, unfulfilled. We shall include in this editorial a poem written by a young woman whose husband was taken from her, through death, only a few weeks after their marriage. We are personally acquainted with her and know that she reveres her husband's memory, and holds him always in her heart of hearts. Nothing that we can say will tell the story of her disappointment as vividly as she tells it herself in her poem called My Dream Baby, which we include as part of this editorial:
O little babe, dream-baby of my heart, I've loved you, little one, so long. I saw you first when joy reigned in my soul; My husband-boy and I in fondest love Were planning for the future that should be, When, on a rosy ray from out our dreams, We saw you, babe, and claimed you for our own. But scarce the dream appeared till all was gone, And in the cruel loss you were forgot. Alone in anguish, all alone and crushed— I could not see you then, nor light, nor hope.
EDITORIAL 229
So months passed by unsunned by love or smile, And then one night I saw you in my dream. I knew you, baby, with your hair like gold, I knew your dear blue eyes so like my Love's, And in the lonely night, I held you close And felt your baby fingers on my cheek. I woke. You were not there—but, little babe, I see you yet and love you, want you near. I am a wife, though all alone I wait, And in my
breast there beats a mother-heart, And you, fair smiling one, are my dream-baby; You yet will be my own, somewhere, sometime. —Bertha Roberts. The Bereft at Castle Gate Since our last issue, a terrible catastrophe has overtaken the State of Utah depriving mothers of sons, wives of husbands, and children of fathers and brothers. We deeply sympathize with those who are bereft and trust that the time is not far distant when such accidents will be made impossible. For those who have passed, unstinted gratitude; they are the heroes of the humble walks of life, the men who daily and hourly risk their lives that you and I may live in comfort, protected from cold and with ample provision for cooking our food. No one can ever go into a coal mine without being stirred with a feeling of gratitude for these men, who, cut off from sunlight, give their work and their lives for the comfort of others. Of their sacrifice it is not possible to say enough, they have gone to that realm where a just God knows how to evaluate their service and how to reward them for all their labor. We pray that the consoling influences of our heavenly Father's Spirit may give support to the bereft. We submit the following poem from the pen of Lula Greene Richards, trusting that from it the bereaved will receive some measure of comfort: TO HEARTS BEREFT No flower so fair but it may fade and die— No star so bright it may not sink to rest— Nor gift so precious from the world on high It cannot pass from those who love it best. Look up, dear ones bereft—renew your trust, Confess God's loving hand and comfort find— Think of that heavenly Friend as true and just— Too wise to err—too good to be unkind! 230 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Think of the loved one taken from our sight, Living forever where His glories shine— Free from the storms of winter—gloom of night, And say, "O Lord, thy will be done—not mine!" Arise and help to conquer grief and sin Making life's purpose better understood. Unbar your souls and let love's sunshine in— We cannot give without receiving good. The joy of giving cheer to self imparts— Pain is of earth, but peace is from above. Find blessings for your own and other hearts, In looks and words and deeds of Christ-like love. Let tis love more our dear ones who are left, And prize more highly blessings of today, And that loved one of whom we are bereft, Will smile with us and seem not far away. “A Mother was Born'' Alice Meynell, one of our very modern writers, whose poetry is often seen in collections of the new poetry, put forth a new idea when she intimated that at the birth of the first babe, not only is a child born, but a mother is born, and we add to her intimation that a father is born also. This, no doubt, is one reason why the birth of the first child seems so important in a family, and indeed it is important for it gives to the world not only a new infant, but a new father and a new mother, which is surely deeply significant. Is She a Specialist? This is a day of specialization, still there are some lines in which we hardly hoped for specialists. The following story gleaned from a mother, as I walked along the street with her, forces the question. She was with her daughter Carol when I inadvertently remarked, that I thought Carol a very pretty name, to which her mother readily replied, "We gave her that name, because she was born on Christmas Day." As I manifested some interest in the remark, she continued by saying, "One of my children was born on Thanksgiving Day, and another on New Year's Day." The attending physician laughingly remarked, after the birth of the one on New Year's Day, "Mrs. D., we will give you one more chance for a baby on the 4th of July." "I have not had a child born on the 4th or the 24th of July," EDITORIAL 231 she continued, "but I did have a child born on the 4th of March, which chanced to be the day of the inauguration of a President of the United States." I do not pretend to answer the question myself. I put it up to you, is she a specialist? A Busy Mother's Poem By Hazel S. Washburn I thought I'd write a poem, glorious and grand, Something to thrill men's hearts and make them understand And comprehend the lesson written there Of love and life and death! Our human share; But all day long my feet on errands went, Backward and forward, till the day was spent, While I gave love, advice and feproof, mild Always, in the service of a little child. I thought I'd sing a song that all might hear, And hearing, care and strife would disappear, Leading ever upward toward the throne of love, Teaching only mercy and the God above. But oh, I bathed an aching head instead, Bound up a bleeding finger, kissed a poor bumped head, Settled disputes, and, as the eve drew nigh, Tired, I only sung a lullaby. But oh, I love each little towseled head, I love to tuck each one at night in bed, To hear each prayer, to cuddle and caress, To guide their tiny feet in paths of righteousness. Then, some day, when my birdies all have flown, Leaving the home nest, and their mother all alone, I may have time; as maybe it will be I’ll write my poems in eternity. Efficient Motherhood a Vital Need By Claire Stewart Boyer Motherhood is not as yet a recognized profession, in spite of the fact that millions of women are devoting their lives toit. The reason is simple. To become what can be termed "professional," in any line of work, study is necessary. Too many women blunder into marriage knowing nothing or next to nothing about its great mission—motherhood. And the saddest part of it is they remain content to continue the would-be profession of motherhood in ignorance. Back door gossip, friendly hints, once in a while a bit of mature advice, have constituted their store of knowledge on this most vital of all subjects. No wonder motherhood cannot be classed as a profession. Ninety-nine out of every hundred girls want to become mothers. From the age of six to sixty they are curious concerning the evolution of life, Yet they ask hesitatingly for information. If they are brave they ask their mothers; if not, they ask their friends. Sometimes they get hold of a magazine which enlightens them a bit. Sometimes they secure a book and secretly read of the mysteries of life. Seldom do they openly face the problem with a truthful knowledge that will set them free from fear. Many girls stand at the altar with love in their hearts and not a great deal in their heads about motherhood. They only know that motherhood is somehow connected with marriage. This is certainly far from a professional attitude; yet, once within the ranks of the world's mothers, they want recognition. No girl would expect to succeed as a stenographer if she attempted to do stenographic work without a knowledge of typewriting and stenography. Nor would she attempt any other line of business in ignorance. Even the girl who wants a job as salesgirl, if she has any spunk, reads up on her would-be profession. Only this greatest of undertakings is too frequently begun with no definite knowledge. It is the peculiar few who shock their friends with the information that they are reading books on eugenics, etc. "Learn from experience" seems to be the slogan of too many mothers and grandmothers. It is their advice to the younger generation, "O well, you'll learn," they say, smiling wisely, "just as we did." Yet the blame cannot all be placed on the shoulders of the passing generation. To the young girls of today must come the challenge, "Prepare yourselves." Books have proved the salvation of the world in its march toward progress, and there were never so many books as today. Nor is it EFFICIENT MOTHERHOOD 233 ever too late to begin to read. The mother of eight children can do well to get some information besides that acquired from experience. Her ninth child may be a genius, in which case her much used and time-worn methods of handiing children will fail. But again I say it is to the young girls, the brides-to-beto whom reason must make its appeal. Suppose someone should bluntly ask, "Are you going to make your marriage a success?" The blushing bride would probably answer, "I hope so." But if that same person were to ask, "How?" what would be the reply? O, every girl has her little dream: a pretty home, well kept, herself attractive always, and good meals. Sometimes her mind wanders as far as children. She may resolve to do the best she can, but does she resolve to progress? For after all, that is the secret of the happy home, the successful mother. A moment ago I mentioned books. There is little excuse for a girl who will not put forth the effort to obtain good reading material upon the subject of her chosen profession. If she fails, little sympathy is due her. There are libraries and schools each containing books of value. She need not be ashamed of her ignorance; librarians are for the most part intelligent and sympathetic beings, ready to recommend books for all needs. There are traveling libraries, friends libraries, book stores, all of which may contribute to individual needs and desires. Again, I say, there are so many books, that ignorance is a sin. Perhaps the problem of guidance as to the selection of books should be considered. In every center of learning there are men and women well informed on books, ready to aid anyone who has the desire to learn. If you are not within walking distance of such a place, four cents will carry a letter asking for information and insuring a return. Besides teachers and librarians there are men and women such as doctors and nurses in every community who will be glad to put into the hands of those desiring to make themselves more efficient, either information or books to aid them. It should not be embarrassing to ask for the help that will make better mothers and thus raise the average of the child of the next generation. So after all it is not the lack of information, nor guidance in selecting the information, nor difficulty in procuring information; it seems to be the desire to get books and the will to read them, that is lacking. If girls could see their futures in a truer light than that revealed by gypsies and palmists, if they could realize how many of their mistakes are mere follies of ignorance, if they could sense the suffering avoidable through a little knowledge, then they might know the significance of the words—'"The Glory of God is Intelligence," 234 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE If the young bride has not taken the time to prepare herself for home-making before her marriage, she can very easily read a few books each year of her married life which will make her work at home more interesting. It has been said, and said truly, that the most fascinating pursuit in the world is the pursuit of knowledge. This is especially so when the knowledge gained can be used toward personal success. Marriage becomes more than a routine of duties enlivened with a little pleasure, when it is vitalized by a desire to make it successful, and progresses with knowledge added continuously. One reason that there is so much discontent among wedded couples is the fact that they neglect to burn the lamp of enlightenment, preferring moonlight and glow-worms. There are many interesting problems connected with homemaking which are always in the process of change, and hence interesting to study. You may have your own little theory of love but El'en Key can tell you something about it you don't know. You may think you are practical and know how to handle your husband's money, but Charlotte Perkins Gilman can help you. You may believe you understand children, but Gruenberg and Dr. Holt can tell you startling facts you should know. There is no end to the interesting help you can gain from modern available books. Every mother should read these 'books or their equivalents: Mother Croft Manual—Read. Character Training in Childhood—Haviland. Guidebook to Childhood—Forbush. Your Child Today and Tomorrow—Gruenberg. The Care and Feeding of Children—Holt. Feeding the Famuily—Rose. These books are all in the Public Library of Salt Lake City, and any book store manager will be glad to get them for prospective buyers. I am adding another library list that is splendid in aiding parents in their home problems: Psychology and Parenthood—Bruce. Training of the Human Plant—Burbank. Child and Country—Comfott. Problem of the Nervous Child—Evans. Concerning Children—Gilman. Century of the Child—Key. Outlines of Child Study—McKeever. Advanced Montessore Method—Montessore. Parents and Their Problems—Eight Volumes. How to Know Your Child—Scott. Measurement of Intelligence—Terman. From the Child's Standpoint—Winterburn, EFFICIENT MOTHERHOOD 285 Men Who Made Good—Fanris. The Youth and the Nation—Moore. My Boy and I—Herrick. Building Your Boy—Wayne. Finding Youth—Andrews. The Boy Problem—Forbush. Self Training for Mothers—Chance. Parent and C. Hild—Cope. A Mother's Ideals—Proudfoot: Trend of the Teens—O'Shea. Sons and Daughters—Gruenberg. The American Girl and Her Community—Slatterly. DISABLED AMERICAN VETERANS TO MEET IN SALT LAKE CITY, JUNE 23 TO 28 Madame Schumann-Heink, one of the world's best-known prima donnas and concert singers, will be present at the fourth annual national convention of the Disabled American Veterans of the World War, to be held in Salt Lake City, June 23 to 28, and will sing at the opening session of the great conclave, Monday morning, June 23; according to telegraphic advices received here today by Commander Gaylen S. Young, chairman of the general convention committee, at its headquarters in the Hotel Utah, from National Commander James A. McFarland at Washington, D. C. The great singer met national officials of the Drea. Of W. W. In New York City yesterday, and accepted their invitation to attend the coming national convention in Salt Lake City, At the Minneapolis national convention banquet last year, Mayor Col. George Leach of that city presided as toastmaster, dnd called upon the great diva for remarks. In a choking voice Madame Schumann-Heink expressed her grief over the death of her sons, fighting on opposite sides in the world conflict. Voicing her pride in the death of the one son fighting with the American forces, she added that she had no apologies to make for the son who met death while serving the enemy country. Getting Ready for Cousin Alice By Annie Pike Greenwood "Come, Snapper, we're going." John threw the last big piece of sagebrush on top of the already loaded hay-rack. Jimmy came running with his arms fall. "Wait, Papa; here's some awful big sage-brush I picked up where someone had chopped it off." John lifted Jimmy on to the hay-rack, sprang up himself, and with a "Come, Kate! Come, Nell!" was soon bumping through the sage-brush to the road. John's thoughts were of his wife at home, as the hay-rack clattered along the road. For a year now she had been prostrated with head-aches that came on suddenly and left her weak and worn, and instead of getting better they were growing worse. He had told seventeen-year-old Doris that morning that if her mother did not get better by noon to send a neighbor's boy for Dr. Snow. John and Jimmy had been gone since morning, first to Hen Bailey's to help kill hogs, and then out in the sage-brush for the winter's kindling. Jimmy was no help with the hogs, and very little with the sage-brush, but there was no boy of his age within three miles of John's farm, and he had begged so hard to come. Besides. John enjoyed the little fellow's companionship on the lonely road home. John and Jimmy sang together all the songs that either of them knew from "Tipperary" to "Kkk-katy." They chanted together, "I went to the animal show, The birds and the beasts were there, And the big baboon By the light of the moon Was combing his auburn hair. "Oh, the monkey he got drunk And sat on the elephant's trunk; The elephant sneezed, And got down on his knees, And that was the last of the Monkey—monkey—monkey—-monkey—monk—"' Just then whir-r-r-r-r an automobile came behind them and Kate and Nell reared and stepped sideways. GETTING READY FOR COUSIN ALICE —— 237 "Steady, girls!' yelled John, "are you going to let a Jitney send you to the hossespital?" Jimmy grinned with delight at his father's joke. "How would you like a Jitney, Jimmy?" "Oh, Papa, get a big one, won't you?" "Sure, boy—have to, with our family." His thoughts went happily to the surprise he meant to make Millie soon. The crops had not been as good as he had expected —barley a loss, potatoes ditto, but wheat and hay had made good. He had hoped for a high class car, but a Jitney would serve the purpose. He had the money saved for the Jitney, and the time was ripe to make known his surprise. Tomorrow he would go to Twin Falls and look at cars— So he mused until the big gate of his farm was reached. As he drove in, seventeen-year-old Doris came running to meet him, her cheeks, usually pink, quite pale, and her eyes frightened. John recognized that something was wrong, and reined in the horses. "Oh, Papa, Mama fainted while you were gone, and I sent for Dr. Snow—Tom Jones went in his automobile. And, Papa, Dr. Snow says mother must have a complete change, or—or—" the tears welled into the girl's eyes. John answered nothing, but hastened to put the team in the barn and go at once to his wife. Millie was feeling better, and tried to smile at their insistence that she was to have a change at once. "There's no place I would be as happy as -here," she demurred. "You are going to your sister Virginia. It will be a complete change from an Idaho farm to a city like Denver." Millie felt that she could not consider it, but as the day wore on and she considered the weight of the many unescapable tasks her tired body suggested at length, "It would be good to have a change. It would be good to go some place and see something else than just shanties and hills and mountains and alfalfa and wheat; and wear some good clothes and have a rest. Perhaps it I go for a short time I won't feel so snappy with the children when I come back. Poor little things, I can hardly bear to have them 'touch me, and when they cry and fuss with each other it nearly drives me frantic." The succeeding days were filled with a new kind of excitement. With Doris' help Millie was selecting her "trousseau," as Beth was pleased to call it, having just picked up the word from a story she was reading. After the order had gone East, Millie began getting ready for Cousin Alice. Up in the garret she began. As she worked she looked at everything through Cousin 238 ° RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Alice's eyes.. The great box of old shoes, accumulation of years, was sorted. Good shoes and rubbers were hung in pairs on nails where an observer could see at once what was desired instead of raking out onto the floor a miscellaneous assortment of mismates, which were left, of course, for Millie to pick up and pile back into the box. All the worn out shoes Millie burned guiltily. She had been keeping them all these years for fear John might need a leather strap to put on a barn door. John had never once required such an article. Next she tackled the case of books reaching almost to the ceiling, over which hung a gigantic old couch cover to keep the dust out. When she lifted this, Millie's heart sank at the nightmare which confronted her. She had never had the heart to destroy a book; worthy or worthless but there they were, piled and packed as closely as possible, a most disorderly collection. What would Cousin Alice say? Resolutely Millie took them out, one by one—Gregg's Short Hand, studied when a girl; twelve once semi-popular novels; a treatise on the elimination of the cotton boll weavil (so appropriate for an Idaho ranch!) How to raise Rabbits. (When the problem of this country was how to destroy them fast enough.) The Body Beautiful, a set of exercises. (Poor Millie, who had so much exercise from morning until night that she had no time to beautify her body.) Books and books and books which might possibly somewhere in the world be of use, but which were here only cluttering up the garret and making house-cleaning horrifying. Both the living-room stove and the kitchen stove were soon raging furnaces. For the first time in her life Millie was burning books, and after the first shock of vandalism was over she looked around for new worlds to conquer, the scent of the battle luring her into new fields. She must not give offense to Cousin Alice. Everything must be spick and span with all the unnecessaries cut out. After she finished the bedrooms she thought she would rest before tackling the downstairs by doing the children's summer sewing. That was the way Millie had always taken her rest ow the farm—by beginning a new job. The baby was cross and insisted on getting into her lap while the twins were thrusting their fingers under the sewing-machine needle and into the wheel when John came into the house looking for his gloves. "T thought you sent for your clothes." "I did; but I must get the children ready for Cousin Alice." "Don't they have children's clothes in the catalogues?" "Yes, but they cost so much at the side of what I can make them for." GETTING READY FOR COUSIN ALICE 239 "It will cost more than any clothes out of a catalogue if you get sick. You make out an order. I made enough money this year for everything you want." And thus the automobile began to vanish entirely out of sight. It was a disappointment. John couldn't hide that fact from himself. All the men who had come to this section of Idaho at the time he had, were now owners of automobiles, and _ came first. What was an automobile at the sight of that gritty little woman who had shared his hardships from the first, though She had never set foot on a farm before? John would gladly ride in the old white-top to town all the coming year for her sake, Doris and her mother had another delightful session reading descriptions in the catalogues and looking at the pictures, "Here is just the thing for Bobby, Doris; striped blue and white seersucker rompers—"' "But isn't that more expensive than the chambray, Mama?" "I must get the children's clothes ready for Cousin Alice so that she will not have much ironing to do. I have got to plan everything to make it as easy as possible for her." As soon as the order was in the mail, Millie began the downstairs cleaning. She did all those things of which she had dreamed for years, but never seemed to find time to do; made new, pretty cretonne curtains, and cushions, cleaned the sideboard of the collection of family treasures “Family Trash,” Doris called it, disgustedly, although that did not hinder her from contributing to the general disorder, John and the children proterrupted only by a cut-glass bowl, a coffee percolator, and some silver goblets which her mother had left her. After all, it was not the proper repository for John's pipe that forever belched ashes over everything, Jimmy's battleship, the twin's much battered dolls, Doris' book, Beth's box of colors, and even Millie's When it was firmly insisted upon it was remarkable how soon the family got into the habit of not putting everything on When her "trousseau" came Doris and Beth were as elated as if it had been for them. "Now, Mama," said Doris, "I must Shorten this skirt a little. You are only thirty-seven and I will 240 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE not have you look like sixty. Doesn't she look pretty in that, Beth? But I must teach her how to do her hair. Why, Mama, I have been neglecting you. Who would ever have thought that our little Mama could look so sweet in anything? You haven't had a new dress in six years, have you, Mama? I am so glad you can have this trip. From now on until you go, Mama, you must wear canvas gloves whenever you do anything. I am going to get your hands pretty to go with your pretty clothes. There is no sense in your looking old and frumpish. Papa, come here!" After some urging and dragging on Beth's part John stood | in the doorway and beheld his wife, cheeks pink and hair fluffy in the pretty plum-colored dress. "Why, Mama!" he said in frank pleasure. "It's worth a car to see you look like that once again! We've been cheating ourselves. Girls, we are not going to let our pretty Mama get old, are we?" And John, without any urging on Beth's part, crossed the room and took the plum-colored dress in his arms and brought the love-light into his wife's eyes with the tender kiss he gave her. "I feel better already!" she murmured against his cheek. So much for the power of a new dress. Who can calculate the good that it may do in the world? The day came for them to part. Cousin Alice had been delayed, but Doris with John's help was to tide the family over the week: between Millie's leaving and Cousin Alice's coming. Millie's trunk was packed, and all was in readiness. But had a stranger entered that home he would have suspected that the family was in readiness, not for a desired trip, but for some dire misfortune. Gloom was over all, even the twins seemed to sense the situation and clung to Millie without intermission. She wanted them to do so, for now that the parting was close at hand she had no desire whatever to push the little fingers away. How she loved them! How could she bear to have any other person minister to their wants? How could she be so hardhearted as to forsake good little blueeyed oy for any reason whatever? They were all seated at the table that last night. John was pretending to read, but his heart was heavy within him. Doris had her mind but partly on her book, while Beth and Jimmy made no pretenses of the fact that they were leaning against mother's knees as long as it was possible to do so. Millie sat idly running her fingers through their hair and over their smooth cheeks. Nobody was thinking of anything but that on the morrow mother would be gone for a long time.
An automobile stopped at the gate, and a few moments later came a knock on the door. "Come in, Dr. Snow, you are just in time to say goodbye to my wife. It took some little time to get
GETTING READY FOR COUSIN ALICE 241
her off because she was determined to leave everything in perfect shape for her Cousin Alice, but she goes tomorrow."
Dr. Snow regarded her keenly. "You are looking much better, Mrs. Woodbury. What have you been doing to yourself?" There was surprise in his voice.
"Just getting ready to go, Doctor. But I have had such a good time doing it. I didn't have a bit of trouble, and for the first time since we came on the farm I have things as nearly the way I want them as can be. Every drawer is in order, every button on, everything clean. Why, I could keep house here myself with less trouble than ever before. You see Cousin Alice is very particular, and I have been breaking my family of some of their bad habits so as not to annoy her."
"Have you had any headaches since that one you called me for?"
"Not a headache, Doctor. I have been too busy and happy to be sick—Doctor, don't you think I could stay here instead of going?"
"No, Millie,' John interposed quickly, "Dr. Snow knows what is best for you."
"Oh, I don't know," said Dr. Snow, "Mrs. Woodbury is looking so much better since I saw her last. I know a good girl you could get, Woodbury, and it wouldn't cost you as much as the trip would. Only, you must promise to get her out at least four times a week, with not more than one child at a time with her."
"Is it wise, Doctor?" John was pathetically eager.
"Perfectly. Getting ready for Cousin Alice," the doctor smiled, "has done her a world of good. Now, if you can let her enjoy the fruits of her labors instead of having Cousin Alice enjoy them, I really believe that it will do her more good to remain here than go away from her family where she might worry about them. Provided, of course, that you will make her go out often."
"Oh, we will, Dr. Snow!" Doris could restrain herself no longer, but ran around the table to hug her mother, "Mama's got a lot of pretty new clothes that I know she is just dying to show the people out here. Anyway I am dying to have her. I just won't let her mope at home any longer. From now on I am mother to the babies."
The glad tears were in Millie's eyes. All these evidences of love touched her deeply, for John was regarding her with adoration, Jimmy and Beth were clinging to her with all their hearts, while Doris threatened to squeeze the breath out of her.
"I thought Mrs. Woodbury had gone, when I came out," said Dr. Snow, "I understood in town that she had done so. What I came to see you about, Woodbury, was that I have bought
242 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
me a big new Franklin. How would you like to buy my Jitney?"
"Oh, I'd like it all right—but I might not be able to do so just now."
"That's all right. Your word is good. You can have it on your own terms. Come out in the morning and get it. Then you will be sure of getting your wife started going out tomorrow. When she gets to whirling around in the Jitney you won't be able to keep her at home. On the way back you can bring that girl I spoke of—she is living at the Gorry ranch. Big, strong, capable. Know you'll like her. That Jitney's yours, so expect you in the morning."
The doctor was gone. John sank on his knees beside Jimmy and Beth, and put one arm around his wife and the other around the two children. Doris and he smiled into each other's eyes.
THE HIGHEST SALARIED POSTMISTRESS IN AMERICA
She is the highest salaried woman "postmaster" in America! Mrs. Elizabeth D. Barnard, "postmaster" at Tampa, Fla., the first woman ever assigned head of a $6,000 post office! Further, Mrs. Elizabeth D. Barnard, "postmaster" at Tampa, Fla., the woman who holds this distinction, has traveled in less than twenty years from a $4 a week job in a hardware store to the position she now occupies. Here is her story.
Born in a rural district of Florida in 1881, she found herself at the age of 24 a widow with two small children to support and educate and no income with which to do it. She had been reared in the country schools of the undeveloped country of Florida and had little opportunity for an education that would prove an asset in helping her to make a living. It was not a question of picking and choosing jobs. She knew that she must take any job she could find, and in the little town of Arcadia, Fla., she finally secured employment as clerk in a hardware store at $4 a week. She did not rail at fate, but set to work to make herself worth more, spending all her spare time taking a correspondence course in stenography. As soon as she felt sufficiently sure of herself she took and passed the examination for post office clerk at Tampa. She was appointed at a salary of $600 a year. This was the entering wedge to her real success. She has been connected with the Tampa postoffice for seventeen years, and has gone from clerk to private secretary, to confidential clerk, to cashier to foreman of inquiries, to assistant superintendent of mails and finally to postmaster. Her position of assistant superintendent of mails has always before been held by a man, as has the position of postmaster in an office in the $6,000 grade. —New York Sun.
Pa and Ma By Lula W. Bowler
Homesick? Yes, I've got it bad! Hain't been home for 'most two years An' it makes a person sad, An' he can't keep back the tears. Got a fam'ly sure enough, But that don't matter, not a straw, I'm lonesome fer the dear old home, An' and I want my pa and ma.
Birds a' singin' here 'tis true, An' the air is soft and sweet; Sky is brightest springtime blue An' there's frogs in their retreat. But that don't help, no, not a bit; You can't sing and laugh, ha, ha, When yer hearts ez heavy ez lead An' you want yer pa and ma.
I've got friends ets true and good An' I like 'em sure I do; They'd do anything they could Fer to make me feel less blue. But they can't help, no, not a bit, When yer heart is sore and raw The only salve that's sure to cure Is just ta see yer pa and ma.
Life has cares an' troubles, too, Et you got ta meet each day; 'Tain't no matter what ye do They're sure comin' 'round your way. But you can stand a lot in life While yer daily breath ye draw, If, when you get darn lonesome, Ye can see yer pa and ma.
But then, 'course you can't expect Et you'll always have yer way, So ye just as well reflect That there'll be a judgment day. An' you'd best prepare to meet it, Keep yer deeds within the law So that when ye pass deaths portals Ye can see yer pa and ma.
A Half Century of Educational Progress.
Education has been a passion with the Latter-day Saints. This is true because eternal progress, according to their idea, is dependent in a large measure on both intellectual and spiritual attainments. In order to carry into the lives of the young people of the Church, the opportunities for a broad and well rounded education, the Church school system was established. Next year marks the fiftieth anniversary of the founding of the Brigham Young University, the parent church educational institution.
For nearly half a century that institution, under the direction of such able educators and inspirational leaders as Karl G. Maeser, Benjamin Cluff, George H. Brimhall, and Franklin S. Harris, has been moulding the characters and directing the early activities of thousands of young men and women who have become some of the most prominent leaders in various ways in the intermountain region. Training for service and leadership has always been the aim of the institution.
Although the Brigham Young University is a Latter-day Saint institution, its doors have always been open to young people of every faith who have been willing to abide by the regulations of the institution. The policies of the Brigham Young University have always been so broad and liberal that the institution has been accepted as one of the great universities of the West. In fact, some of the best educators both East and West, have, in the past, at various times, identified themselves with the institution and have been so pleased with conditions that existed there that they have freely recommended the school until today the Brigham Young University is a member of some of the most exclusive College Associations in America. The work done at the parent Church school is of such a high character that inspectors from East and West have recommended that it be accepted at par in any of the larger institutions.
During the past two summers such well known educators as Dr. Charles E. Rugh, of the University of California; Dean Frederick E. Bolton, of the University of Washington; Dr. Charles Abram Ellwood, of the University of Missouri; Dr. Henry C. Cowles, of the University of Chicago, and other noted men have been regular teachers on the faculty of the institution. This coming summer such eminent men as Dr. David Snedden, professor of Education of Columbia University and a world famed authority on education; Dr. Henry C. Cowles, plant ecologist of the University of Chicago; Dr. Walter R. Smith, professor of
EDUCATIONAL PROGRESS 245
Educational Sociology, University of Kansas and president of the National Association of Sociology; Dr. Raymond L. Frandson, professor of Education, Dr. Merritt Y. Hughes, professor of English, and Dorothy B. Nyswander, all of the University of California, will be regular members of the faculty of the institution
DR. DAVID SNEDDEN Professor of Education, B. Y. U. Summer School
and will give regular courses for graduate and undergraduate credit. Besides these eminent faculty members there will be a number of other world characters on the lecture staff.
The Brigham Young University, as few institutions are able to do, keeps its finger upon the pulse of the intermountain region with the one idea in mind of being able to offer the particular
246 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
type of work that will be best suited to the needs of the people of its own territory. Service—complete and full—is the one slogan of the administration. Knowing that the people of the intermountain west are rather unusually interested in scriptures and religion, the institution has in the past brought such able
DR. MERRITT Y. HUGHES Professor of English, B. Y. U. Summer School
interpreters of the Bible and religious thought as Charles E. Rugh and Charles Abram Ellwood into its teaching force in order that world ideas of these great subjects might be had first hand. This summer Dr. Adam S. Bennion, one of the most inspirational and well trained interpreters of the Church, will teach courses in Bible literature. These courses will be of added interest because
EDUCATIONAL PROGRESS 247
they will have behind them the Latter-day Saint background.
To meet the needs of the intermountain school teacher a complete demonstration school will be established. In this school, which will be under the direction of Professor L. John Nuttall, a man of wide experience as a teacher and supervisor, various methods can be tried and difficult problems settled. This school will embrace all grades from the Kindergarten to the Junior High School.
The Brigham Young University, on account of its work in education, is coming more and more to be recognized as a very important educational laboratory. The site of the institution was selected because of its location in the heart of the state where it could be readily accessible to all, for in spite of all other conditions, statistics show that geography plays an important part in the educational progress of men, and the center of population according to U. S. statistics is in Utah county. A difference of only ten dollars in fares often times means the difference between graduating from college or dropping out during the high school period.
The natural features surrounding Provo, too, determined to a large degree the site of the parent Church institution. The adjacent magnificent mountains, rivers, and lakes all afford, so the founders thought, ideal opportunities for nature study and recreation. When we remember that of all the well known artists of Utah, a large percentage have been reared in Utah county under the influence of those mountains, lakes, and streams, and consider that a large portion of "Wild Life in Utah," the picture produced to advertise Utah's Great Outdoors was photographed within a very short radius of the Brigham Young University, it seems that their judgment has been vindicated.
That the work of their institution is being appreciated by the people is indicated by the gradual growth of the enrollment. The 1924 Summer school is expected to be one of the best ever offered at the institution and one of the largest from point of enrollment.
Our Thanks
The March issue of the Young Woman's Journal published a very much appreciated article under the caption of "Tributes to the Relief Society in Honor of the 82nd Anniversary of Its Organization." The Relief Society very greatly appreciates this tribute from the organ of the young women of the Church, for we feel sure that cooperation, not competition, is a fundamental law of growth. We are striving constantly to identify the interests of mother and daughter outside of the home and this is a step in the right direction. We are more than appreciative, indeed, we are deeply touched, by the tribute of President Martha Horne Tingey. It is just such intimate accounts that comprise our living history and that will embalm the ideals of the past to a time beyond the time in which we now are living. Sister Tingey's mother, M. Isabella Horne, was one of the pioneers of the Relief Society work, and she impressed its importance upon her daughter. Deep seated impressions of this nature, to which God has added his blessings, have helped materially to carry the work forward to its present hour of fulfillment.
We appreciate, also, the tributes from Tooele, Blackfoot, Sevier, Juarez, Weber, and Blaine stakes. These voices come from distances far apart, but they are of one accord, for they speak of the helpfulness of the organization in relieving distress of whatever name or nature it may be.
The present year is a year in which we have felt greatly favored because of the kindness of those with whom we are associating and cooperating. At Christmas time there was a veritable deluge of messages of good will from the stakes and missions. The issue of the Magazine had gone too far to include our thanks for Christmas and New Year greetings, in the January issue, consequently, we let it pass until such time as seemed favorable for the recognition of other courtesies. This seems to be the appropriate time.
As we go to press the General Board is in receipt of an invitation to attend a banquet, given by the stake presidents, in its honor, at the Hotel Utah, Thursday, April 3, at 7 p. M. The details of the banquet will follow in the next issue.
Something to Think About By Dr. Heber J. Sears, Head of Department of Hygiene University of Utah
THE THYROID GLAND
In our last article we talked about the mystery of the glands—their influence on intellectuality, personality and body growth. We merely hinted at the important role played by the thyroid gland. Let us now go into the study of that interesting gland more thoroughly.
We mentioned two periods of life where body growth is exceedingly rapid—the prenatal period and the period of adolescence. During the prenatal period the things that circulate in the mother's blood go into the building of the child that is being carried under her heart, and nothing whatever can go into the building of the unborn child that is not in the mother's system. During this period the mother is called upon to give up bone material from her bones, blood from her blood, gland material from her glands, etc. If the mother's system is deficient in calcium or lime salts, during pregnancy, the child's teeth will be brittle and the bone structure correspondingly poor. In the same manner, if the mother's thyroid gland is deficient in iodine during pregnancy, the child may either be born a cretin, or it may develop goiter early in life. In other words, the mother cannot give to her child that which her own system does not contain any more than a builder can put lime, brick or stone into a building unless he has these things with which to build. If the great significance of this one principle alone could be fully impressed upon every mother we should soon be breeding a superior race.
Adolescence is the second period of rapid growth. Here again, the thyroid gland is taxed to its utmost—especially in girls. Coincident with this special activity due to rapid growth, to the awakening of the emotions or to the bearing of offspring, the thyroid gland increases in volume, but if continuously supplied with a minute quantity of iodine it faithfully performs its function, insuring mental and physical vigor. Over-activity or under-activity of the thyroid gland usually causes it to enlarge, and when it is enlarged we say its owner has goiter. This disease is more prevalent among women than among men.
250 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
Goiters are of two general kinds—simple and toxic, or poisonous. Unless treated, simple goiter sometimes develops later into toxic goiter. In toxic, or poisonous goiter the patient is nervous and irritable. There is muscular tremor, and although the appetite is excessive, there is weakness and usually great loss in weight.
It is now pretty definitely established that simple goiter is due to an iodine deficiency or lack of certain chemical elements found mostly in sea water, and known in chemistry as halogens. These elements are iodine, chlorine, bromine, and fluorine. Of these, iodine seems most important to the thyroid. Absence in the diet, and in the drinking water, of these chemical elements which the ocean yields abundantly causes disturbances in the thyroid and probably in other glands. Goiter is not a sea shore disease. The goiter areas are those far removed from the ocean, that is they are inland districts. In the United States goiter is most prevalent in the regions of the Great Lakes and the Pacific Northwest.
It is gratifying to be able to state that most of our goiter is simple goiter and the magic word is prevention. One leading authority stakes his reputation on the statement that "Simple goiter is the easiest known disease to prevent." The prevention of simple goiter, in goitrous regions consists in the giving of a very minute quantity of iodine to the expectant mother all through the period of pregnancy and in carrying out a similar treatment among the young until they reach the age of seventeen or eighteen.
Let no one, however, from what has just been said, undertake self-treatment for goiter, by the use of iodine. Iodine in goiter is like a two-edged sword and should be administered only by a competent physician after a careful study in each case, because there is one type of poisonous goiter in which iodine is extremely harmful.
The goiter problem is one of great economic and sociologic importance, because it has a bearing upon the physical and mental well-being of the race. As stated in our last article, it is estimated that, in the United States, some forty million dollars is wasted annually on retarded school children—in re-teaching what they have already been taught but have failed to learn. Just how much of this dullness is due to goiter has yet to be determined.
During the past half century all the sciences have had a new birth, but in no line of endeavor have we achieved more brilliant conquests than in the field of preventive medicine. As a result of the achievements in this field the average age at death, in the United States, is now about twice what it was some
SOMETHING TO THINK ABOUT 251
sixty years ago. Our newer knowledge of goiter and its prevention is an acquisition of the last decade. Among the names of those deserving immortality for their work of human service in this field are Dr. David Marine, of New York City, whose research work gave us a safe and sure method of prevention, Dr. O. P. Kimball of Cleveland, Ohio, who initiated the preventive treatment in the public schools, and Dr. E. C. Kendall who demonstrated the relationship of iodine to the physiology of the thyroid.
While our knowledge of goiter is yet far from perfect, the researches of the past decade have thrown a flood of light on the problem, and the spectacular results already attained form a most brilliant page in the recent annals of preventive medicine. Lest some of our readers should become unnecessarily alarmed by the flaming headlines that have recently appeared in some of our newspapers about the prevalence of goiter in Utah, let us say that our next article in the Relief Society Magazine will quiet some of these fears. Watch for it.
Mother Dear By Carrie Tanner
How precious to us all is mother dear! Enfolded in her wealth of love we live. When joy or depths of sorrow hover near, We crave the comfort she alone can give.
How sweet the tones of her soft lullaby! The earnest prayer she taught us by her knee, The good-night kiss, her watchful presence nigh, Still linger in our loving memory.
How soon are gone our happy care-free days! But lessons taught by mother still remain To guide us in our thoughts and in our ways, That blessings rich, eternal, we may gain.
How great the debt we owe to mother dear! Then let us in return our love bestow, And show our worth in actions that bring cheer, And thus make bright her rich life's sunset glow.
In that Life that Never Ends
Dedicated to those stricken of their loved ones at the great holocaust at the Castle Gate Mine, March 8, 1924
By Josie E. Childs
"Heavens broad day hath o'er us broken Far above earth's span of sky; Are we dead? Nay, by this token, Know that we have ceased to die."
We have left you for a season, But our presence you will feel, When you seek for consolation, At the "Throne of Grace" you kneel.
School thy feelings, wife and mother, Though the clouds obstruct thy way, Father's tender care is o'er you Bringing solace day by day.
In the great and holy temples There is work for you to do, That will bring sweet joy and comfort While this sorrow you pass through.
You can do a work for many, And the ones you love so dear; There are times the veil is lifted And you feel their presence near.
Time is passing, Oh, so quickly, When again you meet your friends, And the loved ones rudely taken, In that life that never ends.
The Psalmist David, A Modern Singer By H. R. Merrill, B. Y. U.
"Long ago, in Jerusalem, there was a pool called Bethesda. In our Bibles we find a quaint folk story of the life-giving power of this pool. From time to time an angel 'troubled the waters,' and then the sick and the infirm who went down first into the pool were healed of their infirmities.
"Poetry is like the Pool of Bethesda. Until they have been plunged into eddies of rhythmical and imaginative beauty, many human intellects are, to a certain extent, sick and infirm."
Marguerite Wilkinson, in her helpful interpretive book, New Voices, from which the above quotation was taken, declares that after a period of rest, the Pool of Poetry has been troubled again and that those who wish to be made whole spiritually may bathe at will in the flood of new poetry that is sweeping over the world and especially over the United States. Then in a few enlightening chapters she spreads the pool of poetry before us and tells us in a delightful manner how to dive in: or, to state it even better, she leads us into the rising flood that sweeps around us in refreshing eddies and makes us feel that today's singers, after all, are in tune with the infinite stream of poetry that has gone before.
The new poet, however, does not work in the same way or with the same materials that some of the earlier poets used. He refuses to shackle his thoughts with a rhyme and meter that make his soul yearnings and burnings jig along in a literary goosestep. He, following the lead of Walt Whitman, "sounds his yap over the roofs of the world;" he, instead of cutting out a pattern of rigid, formal lines into which he must fit the great thoughts of his soul, bursts out into rhapsody. But that is not all. The modern poet loves his words more than his meters and his rhymes. He gathers into his words all the beauty, the suggestiveness, the appropriateness, the appeals, at his command.
This dissertation, however, was not intended as a criticism or interpretation of modern poetry. I set out to show that the "One Hundred and Fourth Psalm" is a truly great poem after the order of the great poems of modernity. I brought Marguerite Wilkinson into the discussion merely to prove my point. I must use her again in order to make the point I am going to make a bit more clear.
She says, "To any poet who holds his vocation in honor,
254 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
words are sacred. The poet must use words to make truth and beauty communicable. He must use them to share life bountifully and richly. Therefore, he must have a sense of the sacredness of words and it is worth while to remember that St. John, the beloved, who was no mean poet, used 'The Word' as the symbol of the Son of Man, who was to him also the Son of God."
Again, "To any poet worthy the name, words are alive, and must be treated with the reverence due all living things. In the best poetry of recent years we have what Miss Monroe calls 'an individual, unstereotyped diction, due to the poet's ideal of simplicity and sincerity.'"
According to Mrs. Wilkinson, the diction of poetry has passed away, the best poetry now is made up of the words of life that clothe best the thought. I think I shall quote in full here Anna Hempstead Branch's beautiful little poem, Her Words, which sums up for me much that I have been trying to say and would say further if space would permit:
HER WORDS
My mother has the prettiest tricks Of words and words and words. Her talk comes out as smooth and sleek As breasts of singing birds.
She shapes her speech all silver fine Because she loves it so. And her own eyes begin to shine To hear her stories grow.
And if she goes to make a call Or out to take a walk We leave our work when she returns And run to hear her talk.
We had not dreamed these things were so Of sorrow and of mirth. Her speech is as a thousand eyes Through which we see the earth.
God wove a web of loveliness Of clouds and stars and birds, But made not anything at all So beautiful as words.
They shine around our simple earth With golden shadowings, And every common thing they touch Is exquisite with wings.
A MODERN SINGER 255
There's nothing poor and nothing small But is made fair with them. They are the hands of living faith That touch the garment's hem.
They are as fair as bloom or air, They shine like any star, And I am rich who learned from her How beautiful they are.
And now we arrive at the One Hundred Fourth Psalm. It seems to me that King David, Israel's sweet singer, loved his words as avidly as does the most ultra modern singer:
THE WORLD WITHOUT
Bless the Lord, O my soul. O Lord my God, thou art very great; Thou art clothed with honor and majesty. Who coverest thyself with light as with a garment; Who stretchest out the heavens like a curtain; Who layeth the beams of his chambers in the waters; Who maketh the clouds his chariot; Who walketh upon the wings of the wind; Who maketh winds his messengers; His ministers a flaming fire.
Except for the archaic words which are used sparingly by the moderns, this stanza is modern in its simplicity of diction. The imagination may catch hold of David's "picture words" and build some interesting vistas. "Thou art clothed with honor and majesty," A suggestive line that draws an imaginary picture of God and his glory. The next line adds to the spectacle. "Who coverest thyself with light as with a garment," Here we see the God of Jesus pictured. Of him Jesus said, "God is light, in him there is no darkness at all."
Go out on a blue, spring day and lie on the back, facing upward, with the next line running through your mind, and see how simply, yet how effectively, David has expressed what you see:
"Who stretchest out the heavens like a curtain; Who layeth the beams of his chambers in the waters; Who maketh the clouds his chariot; Who walketh upon the wings of the wind; Who maketh winds his messengers,"
As I read that line I can fancy David lying in an apple
256 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
orchard, trees loaded with blossoms, while all around are growing mints, and blossoming shrubs, and trees and flowers; and then, as I read the last line, I fancy the scene changed, lightning flashing and thunder roaring and winds shrieking. I can even fancy a mighty tree crashing to the ground smitten with terrible lightning.
"Who maketh winds his messengers, His ministers a flaming fire."
As I go through this wonderful poem from line to line and from stanza to stanza picturing in my imagination the things the Psalmist mentions, I can but be carried along on the wings of David's emotion until at last I cry with him from the depths of my own being:
"O, Lord, how manifold are thy works! In wisdom hast thou made them all: The earth is full of thy riches!"
And then, when I have read to the end the bounties of the Lord, the refrain of the Psalmist comes from a full heart:
"Bless the Lord, O, my soul! Hallelujah."
Read the poem, allowing your imagination full sway, and you will feel as you have never felt before, perhaps, that a great poet and prophet has been at work here. I am quoting it all in the form used by Dr. Richard G. Moulton. The words in some instances may be slightly different from the words of your King James, for this is from a revised version, but the thought is the same and the form is the same:
THE WORLD WITHOUT
Bless the Lord, O my soul. O Lord my God, thou art very great; Thou art clothed with honor and majesty: Who coverest thyself with light as with a garment; Who stretchest out the heavens like a curtain; Who layeth the beams of his chambers in the waters; Who maketh the clouds his chariot; Who walketh upon the wings of the wind; Who maketh winds his messengers; His ministers a flaming fire.
Who laid the foundations of the earth, That it should not be moved for ever. Thou coveredst it with the deep as with a vesture; The waters stood above the mountains, At thy rebuke they fled;
A MODERN SINGER 257
At the voice of thy thunder they hasted away; They went up by the mountains, they went down by the valleys Unto the place which thou hadst founded for them. Thou hast set a bound that they may not pass over; That they turn not again to cover the earth.
He sendeth forth springs into the valleys; They run among the mountains: They give drink to every beast of the field; The wild asses quench their thirst. By them the fowl of the heaven have their habitation, They sing among the branches. He watereth the mountains from his chambers: The earth is satisfied with the fruit of thy works.
He causeth the grass to grow for the cattle, And herb for the service of man: That he may bring forth food out of the earth, And wine that maketh glad the heart of man, And oil to make his face to shine, And bread that strengtheneth man's heart. The trees of the Lord are satisfied; The cedars of Lebanon, which he hath planted: Where the birds make their nests; As for the stork, the fir trees are her house; The high mountains are for the wild goats; The rocks are a refuge for the conies.
He appointed the moon for seasons: The sun knoweth his going down. Thou makest darkness, and it is night; Wherein all the beasts of the forest do creep forth. The young lions roar after their prey, And seek their meat from God. The sun ariseth, they get them away, And lay them down in their dens. Man goeth forth unto his work And to his labor until the evening.
O Lord, how manifold are thy works! In wisdom hast thou made them all: The earth is full of thy riches. Yonder is the sea, great and wide, Wherein are things creeping innumerable, Both small and great beasts. There go the ships; There is leviathan, whom thou hast formed to take his pastime therein.
258 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
These wait all upon thee, That thou mayest give them their meat in due season, That thou givest unto them they gather. Thou openest thine hand, They are satisfied with good: Thou hidest thy face, They are troubled; Thou takest away their breath, They die, and return to their dust; Thou sendest forth thy spirit, they are created; And thou renewest the face of the ground.
Let the glory of the Lord endure forever; Let the Lord rejoice in his works; Who looketh on the earth, and it trembleth; He toucheth the mountains, and they smoke.
I will sing unto the Lord as long as I live: I will sing praise to my God while I have any being. Let my meditation be sweet unto him: I will rejoice in the Lord. Let the sinners be consumed out of the earth, And let the wicked be no more. BLESS THE LORD, O MY SOUL. HALLELUJAH!
BIG BUSINESS
Everything in these days is on the side of the woman who systematizes her household duties as persistently and inexorably as "Big Business" pursues its pet, efficiency, hunting down waste of motion as relentlessly as waste of money. For with all the outside demands upon her feminine talent and judgment and fruits of experience which modern woman has inherited, graduated into, as it were, it does not matter how unambitious she may be toward occupation outside her home, how resistant to outside recognition, she is bound to be swept out of her chosen backwater into the current of community affairs. —New York Sun.
Notes from the Field By Amy Brown Lyman
Hawaiian Mission
The interesting group in the accompanying picture is made up of Relief Society women of the Kauai Conference, with Elder Henry DeHaan, president of the conference. In the front row are the presidents of the various Relief Society branches in the conference, with Elder DeHaan at the right.
Relief Society meetings in Hawaii are conducted practically the same as at home, except in a different tongue. The same good spirit prevails as does the same desire to be helpful to one another. One of the chief interests is the care of the sick and needy, and every effort is put forth to cover the needs along these lines.
Southern States Mission
President Grace E. Callis of the Southern States Mission writes: "I am happy to report a substantial growth of the work and increasing development of the spirit of the work in our mission. We are keeping in mind the mission of the Relief Society as the Prophet Joseph Smith outlined it—to look after the wants of the
260 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
needy. There are several cases where the Relief Societies are clothing and feeding aged people whose better days are over and who have no one to support them. In addition to other activities, the sisters are making various articles such as quilts and clothing for the poor, and in one society they are making layettes for expectant mothers who are in distressing financial circumstances, They have helped sick elders, and are imbued with the spirit to alleviate pain, to remove want and to succor the distressed. Some of the members in the country are making pillows, pillow slips, dresser scarfs and other things for the new mission home. In branches where conference headquarters are located the Relief Societies have placed in the conference houses stoves, rugs, bedding, etc. They also help to buy pianos for the branches.
"When a conference of all the missionaries and the saints from the various parts of the conference is held, in the branches, the Relief Society sisters provide luncheon Saturday and Sunday. Sometimes two luncheons a day are served. This involves much labor and considerable expense, but is greatly appreciated by the visitors who come from distant parts to conference, and also by the missionaries.
"The Lamanite members in the Catawba Indian Nation, are doing very well in their Relief Society work. They make pottery and other novelties which they sell and thus raise considerable means. They do good in attending to the sick, and have wonderful faith.
"At the present time all the Relief Societies are officered by local sisters. They labor under unusual conditions and are therefore entitled to very much credit for their faithful labors. It is remarkable to note the development that takes place in the sisters who devote themselves to the Relief Society work. They become more efficient home makers, manage their children better and are able to cope more wisely with domestic duties."
Ogden Stake (Bound Magazines)
The Ogden stake has made a record with regard to preserving the Relief Society Magazine which is most praiseworthy and which is probably unique in ward organizations. Every ward organization in this stake has a complete set of the bound volumes of the Relief Society Magazine, including the Relief Society Bulletin which was published the year preceding the publication of the Magazine, and is counted as volume one.
Shelley Stake
A stupendous work in the matter of raising funds has been NOTES FROM THE FIELD Rect accomplished in the Shelley stake during the last year and a half. A little over a year ago the stake president made a call on the eight Relief Societies for $1200 for the L. D. S. Hospital at Idaho Falls, Idaho, and it was but a few weeks before the entire amount was raised and turned over. The stake Relief Society board was then asked to aid in making a payment on the ground for the stake tabernacle, and they assisted in the amount of $200. The next call was to assist the Blackfoot stake, the county, and other agencies in putting a county nurse in the schools, and $200 was raised for. This purpose. (This project is explained in the January Magazine.) The accomplishment of this extra work, in addition to all of the regular activities of the organization, none of which have been neglected, speaks volumes for the energy and interest of the Relief Society women of Shelley stake. Cottonwood Stake Cottonwood stake is to be congratulated upon the health work it has accomplished during the last two years. Two permanent health clinics have been established by the Relief Society stake board and are open weekly for examinations and followup work. These clinics were organized and established for the purpose of assisting the mothers in the southern part of Salt Lake County with their child health problems, these women not being privileged to attend the Salt Lake City clinics. The Murray clinic was opened in January, 1922, and the Midvale branch clinic, in January, 1924. In 1923 the Murray clinic became affiliated with the Child Hygiene Bureau of the State Board of Health, and has since that time been a beneficiary of the provisions of the Sheppard-Towner Act. These clinics are financed by the stake board with funds raised in various ways. The Murray clinic is open on Thursdays and the Midvale clinic on Wednesdays, of each week. Two or three stake board members are always in attendance in addition to two doctors, one trained nurse, and one nurse aid. The nurses (who are members of the Relief Society) and also the doctors give their services free. The permanency of these clinics and the regular weekly service gives opportunity for follow-up work which is such an important factor and doubles the value of the clinics. The mothers in this stake are most grateful for the help they are receiving and word has reached the ears of Mrs. Amanda Bagley, stake president, that they feel that their Relief Society has never done anything more important than helping them to keep their babies well. The Murray clinic record shows that in 1922 there were 126 children examined and 495 visits made to the clinic; in 1923, 176 children were examined and there were 620 visits to the clinic. So enthusiastic are the Cottonwood stake workers with their health program and the results they are obtaining, that they are now considering the propo- Lo RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE sition of adding a field nurse to their present staff of workers, which will make professional home visiting possible. Salt Lake County Stakes (Cottonwood, Ensign, Granite, Jordan, Liberty, Oquirrh, Pioneer, Salt Lake) An interesting piece of work accomplished by the Salt Lake County stakes during the holiday season was the gift of warm outing flannel pajamas and night dresses to the tubercular division of the Salt Lake County hospital. There were in all four dozen pairs of pajamas and one dozen night dresses. After the gift was decided upon, a committee of two presidents was appointed to purchase the materials and arrange for the cutting. The Relief Society general office was the distributing and receiving center and in less than ten days the material was purchased, the sewing done, and the finished articles delivered to the County Hospital. It is a well known fact that the State of Utah has made no Jrovision for institutional care for the tuberculous. It is also known and understood that people afflicted with tuberculosis need specialized care which can not well be given in most homes. The Relief Society women of Salt Lake County, in their gift of warm bed clothing to the tubercular division of the Salt Lake County hospital, demonstrated their appreciation for the effort being made by the hospital to give the needed treatment and care to those who are afflicted with this dreaded but curable malady, many of whom through long illness and lack of care have exhausted their own resources and the resources of their families. In order to insure regular, periodic, friendly visiting by the Relief Society, officially, at the County Infirmary, the Salt Lake County stakes are carrying out a joint program. Many Relief Society women go individually to the Infirmary to see individual patients, and Relief Society social workers are to be found there frequently in the interest of patients, but in the official visiting by the stakes, a large group of Relief Society women visit the patients as a group. They conduct a program, serve refreshments, and spend a social hour. There are other organizations in the city interested in the Infirmary, and at the holiday season, especially, entertainments and parties are arranged and carried out by other agencies. Weber County Stakes (Mt. Ogden, North Weber, Ogden, Weber) The Weber County stakes each devote one day a month to 'sewing for the Dee Hospital. The sewing is done at the institution, where a large room is provided, equipped with six sewing machines and other necessities for the work. The third week NOTES FROM THE FIELD ~. 263 in the month is used for this work, all stakes going the same week, but on separate days. North Weber stake sews on Tuesday, Weber on Wednesday, Ogden on Thursday, and Mt. Ogden on Friday. Each stake sends from six to twelve workers, who | go to the hospital at 9 a. M. And work until 5 or 6 p. M. The hospital serves a mid-day luncheon. The group usually includes two or three stake board members, several ward officers and a number of members. The women make everything that is used in the hospital including sheets, pillow cases, operating aprons, towels, dresser scarfs, ether jackets and stockings, bandages, and baby clothes. Thousands of articles have been sewed or mended during the year. The following record will give an idea of the extent of the work and the rapidity with which it has been done: during a period of eight sewing days, six women made or mended 769 articles. During 1923 the four stakes have co-operated in visiting officially the County Infirmary. A visit has been made to the institution every month which means three visits during the year from each of the four stakes. A program of music, readings, dances, etc., has been given each time, and refreshments served the patients. On Thanksgiving and Christmas, special music was provided and on Christmas there were personal gifts of boxes of candy and other dainties. In speaking of this activity, one stake president says: "The County Infirmary visits have resulted in much good, not only to the patients but to all of those who have visited them. Many times the patients have expressed sincere appreciation for all that has been done for them. I have had several letters from patients who are unable to leave their beds and they say that no one took an interest in them until the Relief Society began this good work." Western States Mission Great success has attended the winter program of activities of the Western States Mission Relief Society, which is comprised of twenty-two active societies. The program has been carried out in accordance with the instructions of the General Board of the organization, yet it is gratifying to the officers of the mission societies to know that much of the success is to be attributed to the untiring efforts of the officers and the helpful co-operation of the members. Prior to the Christmas holiday season several of the societies conducted bazaars, which were pronounced successful both socially and financially, and some of which netted the organization over $200. The proceeds of the entertainments were used 264 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE in defraying the expense for distributing Christmas baskets to the poor. The societies have at all times assisted the other auxiliary organizations in their projects, and have helped in raising funds "-for the purchase of sacrament sets, in building additions to, and painting meeting-houses in the mission. In addition to the distribution of clothing and necessities to the poor, the societies are preparing clothing to be used in maternity cases. This project, although in its infancy, will no doubt prove very helpful and beneficial, as the members of the organization are often called upon to give aid to expectant mothers. Sister Florence R. Knight, president of the Mission Relief Societies, has recently organized a society at Fort Collins, composed of twelve ladies. Although the work is new, the members are anxious to begin their activities, and the society will no doubt meet with as much success as has its sister organizations. As the seventeenth of March marks the 82nd anniversary of the organization of the Relief Society, the various societies throughout the Western States Mission prepared fitting entertainments in celebration of the occasion. This year's celebrations were even more stccessful and enjoyable than those of previous years. Mother By M. A. Stewart, Phoenix, Arizona There is no one like mother, We need the love of mother, No matter where we go; -I will help to bridge us o'er There is on earth no other The gulf of sin's temptation Can take her place you know. And strengthen us the more; She has the panacea The kindly words of caution For every ache and pain That well up from her heart And knows just what is needed Will give us hope and courage To make'us well again. To do life's noble part. She's always so forgiving O mother! When we're tempted, Of all the wrong we do, And strength 'twould seem must Which makes us feel like living fail— Our lives both pure and true. May God project thy vision We hope to be more like her A-cross the luring trail! When we are fully grown Thy face so kind and pleading; And live a wise example Thine eyes so calm and mild; To children of our own. Shall give the soul the vict'ry And save thine erring child! Relief Society Annual Report 1923 Amy Brown Lyman, General Secretary FINANCIAL ACCOUNT CasH RECEIPTS Balance on Hand Jan. 1, 1923: Charity Fund..............66-$ 30,311.89 General Fund................ 87, 933.58 Wheat Fund................-- 164,139.66 Total Balance............ Donations Received During 1923: Charity Fund.............. 90,849.16 General Fund..........101,862.97 Annual Membership Dues for General Board............ 10,360.58 Annual Dues for Stake Boards.. 9,401, 64 Received for Wheat Sold...... 15,471.07 Other Receipts...........:.5.. 66,323.35 Total Donations........... Total Balances on Hand and Receipts......... CASH DISBURSEMENTS Paid for Charitable Purposes..$ 97,846.31 Paid for General Purposes.... 108,896.17 Wheat Fund Sent to Presiding Bishop's Office........ 117,093.21 Paid Membership Dues to General Board........ 11,568.99 Paid Dues to Stake Boards..... 11,002.83. Paid for Other Purposes...... 46,741.80 Total Disbursements:...... Balance on Hand Dec. 31, 1923 Charity Fund................ 32,221.09 General Fund................. 98,601.56 Wheat Fund..... POCIOb000E-. 52, 681.94 Total Balances on Hand.. Total Disbursements. And Balances on Hand..... $282,385.13 - 294,268.77 $393,149.31 183,504.59 $576,653.90 $576,653.90 266 _ RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE ASSETS AND LIABILITIES ASSETS Balance on Hand Dec. 31, 1923: All Funds.........$183,504.59 Wheat Trust Fund at Presiding Bishop's Office........... 350,456.29 Other Invested Funds......... 62,004.96 Value of Real. Estate and Bldgs. 235,585.56 Value of Furniture and Fixtures 32,971.97 Other Assets..........25,165.96 Total Assets............. $889,689.33 LIABILITIES Indebtedness..:........2,349.15 Balance Net Assets............ 887,340,18 Total Liabilities and Net AssetS.... $889,689.33 STATISTICS MEMBERSHIP January 1, 1923: Executive and Special Officers 8,705 Visiting Teachers............ 17,691 Members......... 29,036, Total Enrolled............ $55,432 Admitted Membership During Yr. |, 8,682 Total Membership Durie December 31, 1923: Executive and Special Officers.. 8,982 Visiting Teachers............. 17,964 Members.......... 29,027 Total or Present Membership. 55,973 Removed or Resigned........ 7,481 Died..... 660 Total Membership During Yr. The Total Membership Includes': General Officers and Board Members......1,020 Number of Meetings Held. Average Attendance at Meetings....Number of Relief Society Organizations Number of L. D. S. Families in Stakes........ L. D. S. Women, Non-Members, Eligible:..................... Number of Relief Society Magazines Taken......... Number of Executive Officers Taking Relief Society Riana Doe 64,114 64,114 RELIEF SOCIETY ANNUAL REPORT 267 ACTIVITIES Number of Visits to Wards by Stake Relief Society Officers...... 5,027 Number of Visits Made by Relief Society Visiting Teachers During 568,667 Days Spent with the Sick 53,126 Special Visits to the Sick and Homebound 160,614 Number of Families Helped 10,960 Bodies Prepared for Burial 2,568 Number of Days Spent in Temple Work 96,107 Used Clothing Contributed for European Mission 4 Carloads
(Note: In the foregoing report, all funds are held and disbursed in the various wards, with the exception of the annual membership dues.)
COMPARATIVE FIGURES FROM RELIEF SOCIETY REPORTS 1920—1921—1922—1923
                            1920        1921        1922        1923
Paid for charitable purposes $ 87,170.50 $ 90,872.35 $ 93,298.06 $ 97,846.31 Total or present membership 48,204 52,362 53,412 55,973 No. of R. S. Organizations 1,171 1,203 1,284 1,356 No. of R. S. Magazines taken 19,540 22,034 23,813 23,829 Days spent with the sick 56,598 54,907 61,174 53,126 Special visits to the sick 111,019 137,955 157,107 160,614 Families helped 5,782 7,152 8,193 10,960 Number of visits by stake R. S. Officers to wards 4,734 5,364 5,361 5,027 Number of visits by R. S. Visiting teachers during the year 391,204 512,998 495,159 568,667 No. Days spent in temple work 61,213 65,016 80,512 96,107
PRESENT MEMBERSHIP OF RELIEF SOCIETY
STAKES MISSIONS Utah 31,406 Missions in United States 2,751 Idaho 9,708 Canadian Mission 104 Arizona 1,946 Mexican Mission 150 Oregon 248 Australian Mission 16 Canada 1,137 European Mission 3,674 Mexico 201 Hawaiian Mission 861 Nevada 292 New Zealand Mission 498 Wyoming 441 Samoan Mission 202 Colorado 432 South African Mission 27 California 537 Tahitian Mission 214 Tongan Mission 128
Total Membership in Stakes 47,348 Total Membership in Missions 8,625 Total Membership in Stakes and Missions 55,973
Mothers' Day By Florence Pyne Billings
It is mother's day tomorrow, And I'm thinking dear of thee; Though thy voice is hushed in slumber, And your face no more I see.
Yet in memory I can see you, Just as in the days of yore; When with eager childish footsteps, I would meet you at the door.
You would share my little troubles, And would join the joyous bliss, Of the little child that waited, For that mother's love and kiss.
Many years have passed, dear mother, Since I left my girlhood home; And God above has blessed me, With a family of my own.
And the love that I bestow them, Brings each day more clear to me, My duty as thy daughter I can ne'er pay back to thee;
For of all the golden treasures, None can pay thy tender care, God could not always be with me, So he placed a mother there.
And we feel it such a pleasure, In the lovely month of May; Just to meet and wear carnations And to call it Mother's Day.
For the world has many heroes, Some are old and some are young, But just praises to the mother In this world will ne'er be sung.
And as years roll by in number, I will ever love thy name, Though you sleep in silent slumber, From the earth of care and pain.
And I hope in the near future, We will choose some flower rare; That will represent our fathers, For both did do their share.
Though it's all so true to Mother, Would she like to be alone In all the praises given her? For both did make our home.
Let's unite the day together With carnations white and red, For all of those who bless us here, Or sleep among the dead.
MOTHER
I need the inspiration Of the gentle words she spoke; I need her faith to guide me And to light my vagrant way; The many prayers she offered, I need them every day; And how I long to live again Those morning days of life, So sweet with hours of gladness, So dewed with pearls of joy.
But alas, they all have vanished And I dream of them in vain, But memory brings them back to me, And all I know of her Comes back in sweetest vision On this dear Mothers' Day!
SUMMER SCHOOL FOR HALF A CENTURY
THE BRIGHAM YOUNG UNIVERSITY Has had one ideal— "To train Citizens and Teachers for the most complete Service and the highest type of Leadership."
Three complete Demonstration Schools in which problems may be worked out will be organized this summer.
THE 1924 SUMMER QUARTER BEGINS JUNE 9: THE SECOND TERM JULY 21 AT ASPEN GROVE
Faculty Members and Lecturers: Dr. David Snedden, Columbia. Dr. Walter R. Smith, Kansas. Dr. Merritt Y. Hughes, California. Dr. H. B. Wilson, Supt. of School, Berkeley, Cal. Dr. Horace Secrist, Northwestern. Dr. Raymond R. Frandsen, California. Dr. Adam S. Bennion, Supt. Church Schools. Dr. Henry C. Cowles, Chicago. Dr. T. W. Galloway, New York. Prof. W. A. McKeever, Lawrence, Kansas. Mrs. Dorothy Nyswander, California. Many Major Profs. of B. Y. U. And Others.
Write for Particulars.
Summer's Cool at Y Summer School.
BRIGHAM YOUNG UNIVERSITY PROVO, UTAH
You would go across the continent for such an educational feast as this. And here you have it—right at your door!
A NATIONAL Summer School
Courses and lectures by men of world renown. College credit, with special classes for certification of teachers in service or training.
"AMERICA'S GREATEST SUMMER FACULTY"
Special faculty includes: Allee, Chicago; Angell, Yale; Blackwelder, Stanford; Branson, N. Carolina; Carruth, Stanford; Cowles, Chicago; Franzen, California; Knappen, U. of Kansas; Merk, Harvard; McClain, Detroit; McCollum, Johns Hopkins; Reed, Ohio State U.; Shearer, Long Beach; Thorndike, Columbia; Turner, Harvard; Wood, Columbia.
Special lecturers: Wm. G. Anderson, Liberty Hyde Bailey, David Starr Jordan, Shailer Matthews, E. A. Steiner, A. E. Winship and John Adams of London U.
Unique recreation features and excursions to world-famed scenic places. (Special faculty and lecturers to serve through entire first 6 weeks.)
1st term: June 9 to July 18. 2nd term: July 21 to Aug. 29. Register June 6 or 7. Fee $25 for 6 or 12 weeks. Write for Catalog.
Utah Agricultural College Logan Utah
There is no Substitute for Electric Cooking
Call in and see our electric ranges. Types and prices to please everybody.
Utah Power & Light Co. Efficient Public Service
Compare the Pages of The Deseret News with those of any other paper. Notice that while the paper is clean and fit for any child to read it is also interesting and informative in the highest sense—And you get "TODAY'S NEWS TODAY"
Individual Sacrament Sets Now in Stock
BEST IN THE MARKET WILL LAST A LIFE TIME 36 GLASSES IN EACH TRAY
RECOMMENDED BY PATRONS. REFERENCES FURNISHED
Made especially for L. D. S. Churches. And successfully used in Utah and Intermountain region, also in all Missions in the United States, Europe, and Pacific Islands. Basic metal, Nickel Silver. Heavily plated with Solid Silver.
SIMPLE, SANITARY, DURABLE
Satisfaction guaranteed. Inquiries cheerfully answered
THE LATEST ACKNOWLEDGMENT
Bishop's Office, Bern, Idaho, May 2, 1921. "I am in receipt of the Individual Sacrament Set, consisting of four trays and the proper number of glasses. Everything arrived in good condition. We are very pleased with it. I take this occasion to thank you for your kindness."
BUREAU OF INFORMATION Temple Block Salt Lake City
Glazier and Taylor HOSIERY COMPANY 33 EAST BROADWAY
A Store Dealing in Quality Hosiery and Underwear Exclusively
Heavy Silk Full-Fashioned, all colors A wonderful hose for wear Per Pair $2.00 Box of Three Pairs 5.75
Silk Semi-Fashioned, all colors, beautiful and durable Per Pair $1.50 Box of Three Pairs $4.25
Silk with Extra Stretch Elastic Top, the Comfort Stocking Per Pair $1.65
Pure Silk Semi-Fashioned, very durable All Colors Per Pair $1.05 Box of Three Pairs $3.00
MAIL ORDERS PREPAID
A Book of Poems "The Beautiful Valley of Utah" By Mrs. J. Long, 50c per copy. Eureka, Utah, Box 129. When ordering mention Relief Society Magazine.
100 Envelopes $1.50 Delivered postpaid to your home. Printed with your name and address in fine blue plate Gothic. (Not more than 3 lines). Send Money with order. Write plainly.
Universal Stationery Supply Co. 315—24th Street OGDEN, UTAH
To Our Magazine Subscribers
We call your attention to the very high class firms who advertise in the Magazine, and ask, whenever possible, to give them your loyal support and patronage. Also kindly mention having read their advertisement in the Magazine. We hope by your assistance to prove our value as a medium through which to advertise.
Magazine Management.
A Dish of Delight
When the family tires of the regular routine—surprise them by serving Pierce's Pork and Beans. Tender, golden beans in steaming hot, savory tomato sauce made from Utah's choicest tomatoes—no wonder this delicious dish always "scores a hit."
PORK AND BEANS
Eight Other Quality Products Sanitorily Packed by The Utah Canning Company Ogden since 1888
To the Agents and Friends of the Magazine who are Taking Subscriptions:
It was unanimously decided at the October Conference by the officers and members present rather than raise the price of the magazine, we would ask the agents and friends for the present to secure subscriptions without the customary 10 per cent discount. We call your attention to the fact that many of the subscriptions received so far have had the percentage deducted, which is not in accordance with the general understanding of the Magazine management and officers present at the conference.
Will you kindly give this matter your attention and give these facts as wide publicity as possible in order that the subscriptions which we receive hereafter, will be accompanied with the full amount of the price of the magazine, which is $1.00.
Sincerely, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE.
BLUE PINE OLIVE OIL is made from the finest ripe French olives. Its absolute purity and its richness in food values make it the ideal product for salads and dressings. It comes from the container fresh and sweet, with all the rich olive flavor. Once you try Blue Pine Olive Oil, you will never wish to use any other brand. Widely recommended.
For medicinal purposes and other highly exacting uses.
Other BLUE PINE products A SCOWCROFT PRODUCT
THE Relief Society Magazine
CONTENTS
Executive Committee of Relief Society Frontispiece Relief Society Conference Minutes Amy Brown Lyman 273 Vital Statistics and Maternity Welfare 281 Object and Preview Lessons 283 Theology, Lotta P. Baxter 284 Literature, 285 Social Service, Cora L. Bennion 287 How to Analyze and Prepare Lessons 288 Theology, Julia A. Child 290 Literature, Annie Wells Cannon 291 Social Service Amy W. Evans 293 Teachers' Topic Sarah M. McLelland 295 Nurses Aid Class Emma A. Empey 297 Reports from Missions 298 Southern States, Grace E. Callis 298 Northern States Rachel Grant Taylor 300 North-Western States Marie Young 301 Addresses 303 Prest. Clarissa S. Williams 303 Prest. Heber J. Grant 309 Teachers' Topic for August 322 Editorial—President Williams' Birthday 323
Organ of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints Room 29 Bishop's Bldg. Salt Lake City, Utah $1.00 a Year—Single Copy, 10c Canada and Foreign, $1.25 a Year—15c Single Copy
Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah
Vol. XI JUNE, 1924 No. 6
Hot chocolate or cocoa is a drink which can be served appropriately on many occasions.
CARNATION COCOA
4 tsp. Cocoa, 6 tsp. sugar, 3 cups boiling water, 1 cup Carnation Milk, 1/4 tsp. Salt. Mix cocoa and sugar in a cup. Have water boiling. Heat cocoa pot by allowing hot water to stand in it for a few minutes. Heat Carnation Milk by standing cup of Carnation Milk in basin of hot water for five minutes or more. Pour a little boiling water into cup of cocoa and sugar to dissolve them. Pour into cocoa pot, add remainder of water, boiling hot, then the hot Carnation Milk and salt. Serve at once. Makes four cups.
After filling cups add two tablespoonfuls of whipped Carnation Milk, or drop a marshmallow into each cup.
CARNATION'S NEW WHIPPING RECIPE
1 cup Carnation, 1/4 tsp. Gelatine. Dissolve the gelatine in a tablespoonful of cold Carnation; melt in the remaining milk which should be at the boiling point. Cool by placing in a bowl surrounded by cracked ice. When cold whip until stiff. It may be sweetened and flavored to taste. This recipe makes one pint of whipped Carnation which will stand up for many hours.
Carnation Milk
Temple and Burial Clothes Complete Suits For Men and Women Variety of Grades and Prices Prompt and Careful Attention to Mail—Telephone—Telegraph Orders
Open Daily, 9 A. M.—5 P. M.
General Board Relief Society 23 Bishop's Building Salt Lake City, Utah Phone Wasatch 3286
Make A Health Garden
A vegetable garden is a vitally important factor to the health of the entire family. Science has discovered those necessary vitamines are found chiefly in vegetables. Our Seed and Nursery Guide Book will help you in planning both the Vegetable and Flower Garden. Write for Free Copy Today
Porter-Walton Company SALT LAKE CITY
When writing for copy mention Relief Society Magazine
A Gift for Graduation
W. M. McCONAHAY THE JEWELER 64 So. Main Phone Was. 1821 Salt Lake City, Utah
When Shopping Mention Relief Society Magazine
Ladies of the Relief Society and Other Organizations
Order your flowers from the
Ideal Floral Company Fresh Cut Flowers Every Morning 38 South Main Phone Wasatch 3414 Night Phone Hyland 5303-W
To Our Magazine Subscribers
We call your attention to the very high class firms who advertise in the Magazine, and ask, whenever possible, to give them your loyal support and patronage. Also kindly mention having read their advertisement in the Magazine. We hope by your assistance to prove our value as a medium through which to advertise.
Magazine Management.
IMPROVED L. D. S. GARMENTS
The "Temple Brand" garments are handled only by leading dealers, if you cannot get just what you want select it from this list and send order direct to us. We prepay postage to all parts of the United States. Samples submitted on request.
GARMENTS WITH STRINGS Style Price Style Price No. 75 Med. Heavy Cotton $2.50 No. 15 Extra Spe. Flat Weave 1.50 No. 3 Domestic Lisle 1.75 No. 25 Double Back Lt. Wt. 1.85
NEW STYLE WITH BUTTONS AND LONG OR SHORT SLEEVES For Ladies: Style Price No. 1 Flat Weave Cot. $.95 Super No. 2 Ribbed super cot 1.25 No. 815 Flat weave 1.50 No. 803 Ribbed Lt. Wt. 1.65 No. 850 Lisle Gauge 2.50 No. 862 Merc. Gauge Lt. Wt. 2.75
For Men: Style Price No. 903 Ribbed Lt. Wt. $1.75 No. 950 Lisle Lt. Wt. 2.75 No. 915 Flat Weave 1.75 No. 925 Ribbed Med. Wt. 2.00 No. 975 Med. Heavy Cot. 2.25 No. 9175 Med. Half Wool 3.50
SAVE AGENT'S COMMISSION—BUY DIRECT FROM FACTORY
Salt Lake Knitting Store 70 Main Street Salt Lake City, Utah
In sending orders mention Magazine
Ask your dealer for Z. C. M. I. Factory Made
Kiddies' Allovers DUTCH CUT
They are the famous Mountaineer Brand in dark blue, light blue, striped and khaki
Mothers—they are just what you need for the little tots—and the kiddies like them too
Salt Lake City, Utah
TRUST By Hazel S. Washburn of Kirtland, New Mexico
(These stanzas Received Honorable Mention in the Eliza Roxey Snow Prize Memorial Contest)
Dear Heart, the day is long, Now you're away; The Sun shines on, but still My world is gray. I miss your dear, kind face And loving way.
So swift the summons came that called you on, I scarcely realized that you were gone, And I must bear the heavy load alone.
And yet, Dear Heart, I know That God is just. I know he called you home, Because he must. And I can only wait, and pray, And trust.
THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE OF THE GENERAL BOARD OF THE RELIEF SOCIETY
THE Relief Society Magazine
Vol. XI JUNE, 1924 No. 6
Relief Society Conference Minutes Amy Brown Lyman, General Secretary
The annual conference of the Relief Society was held in Salt Lake City, April 2 and 3, 1924. The conference consisted of the following meetings: Session for general and stake officers; session for general and stake officers and ward presidents; stake presidents' meeting; and two general sessions for Relief Society workers and the public.
The representation and attendance was the largest yet recorded at a general Relief Society conference: 17 members of the General Board were present; only one being absent, and that on account of sickness; 87 of the 90 stakes and 5 of the 7 United States missions were represented. There were in all 512 delegates: 71 stake presidents, 4 mission presidents and 1 acting president, 72 stake counselors, 45 stake secretary-treasurers and assistants, 190 special stake officers and board members, and 137 ward presidents. The attendance at the Assembly Hall was large at both sessions, reaching 2,800 in the afternoon. The ushers from Granite stake gave able service in seating the people and in taking care of other necessary needs.
Mrs. Lizzie Thomas Edward, general chorister, and Miss Edna Coray, general organist, assisted by the Relief Society Choir, furnished excellent music, consisting of both solo and choir numbers.
The General Board entertained the stake officers, two from each stake, at the oratorio, "The Elijah," given by the Tabernacle Choir. On Thursday evening the stake presidents joined together in giving a formal reception and banquet to the General Board at the Hotel Utah. This tribute of love and respect was greatly appreciated by the Board, and will be long and lovingly remembered by them.
274 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
OFFICERS' MEETINGS Morning Session
At the opening meeting, President Clarissa S. Williams extended greetings and a hearty welcome, in which she expressed her love and appreciation to the stake workers upon whose shoulders rests the great duty of supervising the work in the various localities. She paid a tribute also to the devoted ward workers who bear the brunt of the detail work in the organization and give such willing service.
Presidents Memorials: President Williams reported that in accordance with the decision of the General Relief Society to establish, in addition to the President Emmeline B. Wells Memorial, memorials for the other past presidents, the General Board has taken final action and has arranged for these memorials, as follows:
For President Eliza Roxey Snow, the Eliza Roxey Snow Relief Society Prize Memorial Poem, for which $750 has been set aside, the interest only to be used as prizes. The memorial provides for two prizes—first and second—to be paid annually, to the winners of the first and second prizes in a poem contest to be conducted annually; the winning poems to be published each year in the January number of the Relief Society Magazine. The first prize consists of $20; the second prize of $10. These prizes were awarded for the first time in January of this year.
For President Bathsheba W. Smith, the Bathsheba W. Smith Relief Society Memorial Temple Grant, for which $750 has been set aside, the interest only to be used for temple work. The memorial provides for temple work for women, the amount to be given yearly to one of the temples, beginning with the first temple established and dedicated, the others to receive it in rotation. The names to be worked for are to be taken from the charity lists of the various temples. This memorial shall begin functioning in January, 1925.
For President Zina D. H. Young, the Zina D. H. Young Relief Society Memorial Nurse Loan Fund, for which $750 has been set aside, the interest only to be used for loans. This memorial provides for a loan for L. D. S. Girls, who desire to enter training for nursing. Any applicant for this loan must show that the hospital or training school she wishes to enter is a reputable institution conforming to regular hospital standards, that she is able to meet all requirements of the school, and that she is able to present a certificate of character from her Relief Society ward president. The beneficiary must return the amount loaned to her within six months after the time of her graduation or after time of her discontinuing training, in which case no
RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE MINUTES 275
interest shall be charged for the loan; however, for good and sufficient reasons, the time may be extended to one year, which will be the limit of the extension, but at the expiration of the first six months, interest shall be charged at the rate of 6%. The money for this loan fund will be available by January, 1925, and annually thereafter.
For President Emmeline B. Wells a loan fund for upper class women, known as the Emmeline B. Wells Relief Society Memorial Loan Fund, was established at the Brigham Young University in 1921.
Group Conventions: President Williams urged Relief Society stake presidents to make preparations for the group conventions and conferences as soon as the dates are set. Inasmuch as these official conventions and conferences are held only once a year, there should be a good representation, and careful preparation for the meetings, for which detailed programs will be sent from the General Board.
Visits of Stake Officers to Wards: A great effort has been made in the past few years to have the stake officers visit their wards rather frequently, but there is a possibility of carrying this too far. Wards should really not be visited too often. On the other hand it is a good plan for stake board members to go to their own ward organizations occasionally as ward members, in order to keep in closer touch with their own wards and with the work being done in these wards.
Wheat: While 80% of the wheat money has been deposited in the Bishop's Office, there are still some wards holding this fund locally. It is hoped that the whole fund will be centralized there in the very near future.
Bound Volumes: It was recommended by President Williams that every stake have a set of bound volumes of all numbers of the Relief Society Magazine. It would be very commendable as well as convenient for each ward to have a set of magazines. The Ogden stake has made a record in this direction—every ward in Ogden stake has all back numbers of the Relief Society Magazine, including the Bulletin, bound and filed for reference.
VITAL STATISTICS AND MATERNITY WELFARE By Dr. T. B. Beatty, State Health Commissioner of Utah
Dr. T. B. Beatty, in his discussion of "Vital Statistics," stated that prior to 1905 there was no provision in the State of Utah for the registration of births and deaths. In 1905 a model law was passed. This law has stood the test of time, and is now being adopted as a uniform law all over the United States. It provides that there shall be appointed in the state,
276 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
in every voting precinct, a local registrar whose duty it is to register births and deaths. The original certificate is sent to the State Board of Health, where it is filed and indexed in such a way that information may be furnished readily regarding any birth. The same is true of death registration. There are now filed in the vaults of the State Board of Health at the Capitol, the original certificates covering the births of 200,000 children who have been born since 1905; also the certificates covering the deaths of nearly all the people who have died since that year. Utah now has recognition in the Census Bureau as a registration state.
When this recognition was granted in 1917, a representative of the Census Bureau who came to Utah found that the State Board of Health had the most complete record of birth certificates in the United States. All states do not have provision for birth registration of babies, but do have provision for registration in the case of calves and pigs. In connection with this statement, Dr. Beatty told the story of a very important case which was brought up for settlement. The son of a wealthy man tried to cheat his own daughter of the estate which had been left to her. The settlement of the case hinged on establishing the birth of the daughter, and since there was no provision for birth registration in that state, no record had been made. Finally some one remembered that there was born on the farm of this man on the same day the child was born, a calf, and the calf was registered, and thus the child's birth was established.
Requests are constantly coming to the State Board of Health for copies of birth certificates, in order that passports may be secured. During the war it was pathetic to see the effort made to secure copies of birth certificates which did not exist.
The value of birth registration is set forth in the following eleven reasons:
1. That the birth, date of birth, parentage and other essential information for governmental and identification purposes may be made a matter of official record.
2. That the ages of school children may be definitely known, making the proper enforcement of school laws possible.
3. That the laws affecting child labor may be enforced and the children of the poor thereby protected.
4. That labor may become safer by the elimination of children under legal age from all hazardous occupations.
5. That the law-abiding employers of youth may be protected.
6. That prosecution dealing with "age of consent" may be settled by record and not by conjecture.
7. That litigation in matters of inheritance and settlement
RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE MINUTES 277
of estates may be simplified by the definite knowledge of the ages of all persons concerned. 8. That the American-born children of foreign-born parents may have indisputable evidence of American birth which will protect them from enforced military service when visiting the mother country of the parents. 9. That blindness may be prevented by prompt medical attention to the infected eyes of the new-born. 10. That infection and mortality among women may be prevented, and that young babies may be saved by immediate attention by existing agencies for the relief of the poor. 11. That the Bureau of Child Hygiene may carry out its duties efficiently.
Registration of deaths is also an important factor in the promotion of the health program of the state. Health officials work blindly unless they know where people are dying and from what causes. Registration of deaths enables us to determine how many deaths occur from preventable causes. It is the melancholy duty of the state health commissioner to scan the death certificates, and note the number of persons that ought not to be dead. A year ago the commissioner might have reported that he could not give the names of the fifteen hundred people who would die in the state in the next year of preventable diseases, but the names are available now.
Registration shows that typhoid fever and measles kill more children than scarlet fever and diphtheria; that twenty-five percent of infants die before they are a month old; that twenty percent of the entire death rate is among children under one year of age. A more strict observance of quarantine regulations would aid materially in lowering the death rate among children from contagious diseases.
Utah has the highest birth rate in the United States, which is over thirty children to each thousand of the population. The birth rate of the United States, outside of Utah, does not exceed twenty-four. Where there is a high birth rate there is usually a high death rate also. This is not the case in Utah; on the contrary, the death rate here is one of the lowest in the United States. This is an evidence of the good care which the children within the state are receiving.
Reasons for registration of deaths are given as follows:
1. That there may be available, complete and accurate information as to deaths of all human beings, with dates of death and causes of death, to the end that preventable causes of death may be eliminated and human lives lengthened.
2. That the various public health agencies—national, state and municipal—and the various private agencies for the preven-
278 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
tion of diseases may know the number of deaths that occur and thereby may operate intelligently. 3. That these agencies may determine what part of our mortality is preventable and when and where preventable deaths occur. 4. That pestilential and epidemic diseases may be detected promptly. 5. That we may apply our remarkable scientific knowledge of disease prevention intelligently at the time and in the place where such application is most needed. 6. That the success or failure of all measures attempted in the prevention of disease may be accurately determined. 7. That individual cities and localities may learn their own health condition by comparison with the conditions of other communities and determine thereby the wise course of public health activity. 8. That home-seekers and immigrants may be guided in the selection of safe and healthful homes by accurate information rather than by misstatements of interested persons. 9. That life insurance companies may be enabled to engage intelligently in movements to protect their policy holders from death and suffering due to preventable diseases and accidents. 10. That the settlement of estates and matters of inheritance, pensions, etc., may be definitely settled by official record of death instead of on the memory of interested witnesses.
Dr. Beatty made an earnest appeal for the cooperation of the people in the registration of vital statistics. He urged the delegates at the meeting to seek to interest the women of the Relief Society in this matter. Parents should know how important it is to have children's births registered, and should see that the doctor sends in the birth certificates.
The work of the Utah State Board of Health in the interest of maternity and child welfare was spoken of by Dr. Beatty. During the past twelve years, upon receipt of every birth certificate, a booklet of rules for the feeding and care of infants has been sent to every mother. The infant rate has been greatly reduced since 1910, but it can be further reduced.
The correction of defects in children is a very important matter. Infected tonsils and adenoids, if uncorrected, lead to disease, and are a menace to the child's whole future life and efficiency. A Child Hygiene Bureau has been created, with one nurse on the staff, and with the aid of the government a traveling clinic secured. This clinic went throughout the state, with the idea of educating the people to the need of giving attention to the correction of defects.
Then came the Sheppard-Towner law, enacted at the behest of the women of the country; and it is to
RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE MINUTES 279
their credit that they thus served notice on men who think in terms of livestock and rivers and transportation measures, that the time had come when some money must be spent for the welfare of the babies of the country. The pro rata allotment from the government to the State of Utah is $8,000, which is matched by $8,000 appropriated by the state of Utah at the last legislature, largely through the efforts of Mrs. Amy Brown Lyman and others who worked hard to get this appropriation. In addition to this $16,000 provided by the government and the state, $5,000 is given outright by the government, making a total of $21,000.
The Sheppard-Towner work was actively begun in Utah last August, and since that time fifty-five health clinics have been held, and many health centers established. More than two thousand children have been carefully examined at these clinics, and over eight thousand defects have been found in the children examined—defects which, if not corrected, would lead to permanent deformity and inefficiency and early death. The money which is available through the Sheppard-Towner act is for educational purposes and is not available for use in the local health centers.
Dr. Beatty stated that letters are sent monthly by the State Board of Health to expectant mothers, which aim to give the women the information they need. These letters are available for all expectant mothers in the state, and will be sent free of charge upon application to the State Board of Health. In order to be of the most possible benefit, requests for these letters should state the month of pregnancy of the woman to whom they are to be mailed, so that the expectant mother will receive the information she desires at the time when it will be most helpful to her.
Following Dr. Beatty's address, there was a discussion of maternity welfare work lead by President Williams. The following items were taken from reports by stake representatives who contributed to the discussion:
Mrs. Fanny C. Harper, president of the Juarez stake Relief Society, compared conditions in Mexico, with regard to maternity care, to those conditions which existed in the early days in Utah. In some localities doctors may be had, but in many communities the women are entirely dependent upon midwives. They are fortunate, however, in having a very efficient midwife. The Relief Society women in this stake have carried out the recommendations of the General Board with regard to the establishment of maternity bundles in the various wards, which are a great benefit to the women there.
280 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
Mrs. Bessie G. Hale, president of Boise stake, reported that the Relief Society women in Idaho are cooperating with the state health officials as much as possible. The work of the Child Hygiene Bureau of this state is carried on chiefly in the outlying communities of the state.
Mrs. Lily B. Gledhill, president of the Sevier stake, told of the health center at Richfield, which is well equipped and maintained by five wards. This center is open on the second Thursday of every month. The stake presidency have given the Relief Society a room in the tithing building, where the clinics are held. The doctors of the community gladly take turns in being in attendance at the clinics and in examining the mothers and children. The women's clubs, Red Cross, Relief Society, and other agencies, work together to finance the center.
In the Cottonwood stake a clinic was established a year before the administration of the Sheppard-Towner act was begun, and this clinic was one of the first to cooperate with the State Board of Health. It has been financed entirely by the Relief Society of the stake. The clinic is held weekly every Thursday, from ten to twelve in the morning, and one or two graduate nurses are in attendance.
Mrs. Evelyn Lyman, president of the Union stake, reported that all the wards of the stake are following the recommendations of the General Board with regard to establishing maternity chests, and in addition to this work, it is planned now to build a maternity hospital, which it is hoped will be finished by fall. The stake presidency are assisting the Relief Society in this movement; they have helped to secure the land for the building, and will ask for a donation from each family in the stake. A great deal of interest has been aroused in this proposed maternity hospital, with the result that the Relief Society has the cooperation of the doctors, nurses and business men, who feel that the hospital will be a great benefit to the people in Oregon. Some of the doctors have stated that when the hospital is in operation, they will be glad to give their services gratis to any who are unable to pay for care, upon the recommendation of the Relief Society. It is planned to have a clinic included in the hospital.
President Williams commended the Union stake Relief Society for this worthy undertaking, and expressed the hope that other stakes would follow suit to the extent at least of establishing one or two or three maternity beds in the various communities.
Beginnings in maternity welfare work in the Northwestern
RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE MINUTES 281
States mission were reported by Mrs. Marie Young, president of the Relief Societies of this mission. The Sheppard-Towner act has been functioning in Oregon for the past year and a half. The State Board of Health mails a monthly letter to expectant mothers. When birth certificates are sent to the Board of Health, each mother receives a certificate and a letter, and thereafter a letter is sent monthly for two years, containing information with regard to the care of the baby.
Mrs. Myrtle B. Shurtliff, president of the Liberty stake, spoke of the necessity of establishing a maternity cottage in the city. The need in Salt Lake City is not for institutions where mothers may receive proper care during confinement, but for institutions where mothers may receive proper care at more reasonable rates than those prevailing here at the present time. The dependent people of the city may receive care at the County Hospital; the wealthy people can afford the care provided at the local hospitals; but there are many middle class people who are unable to afford proper maternity care at the present rates. It has been found that the average cost of proper maternity care is $200, which is more than the average person can afford. She spoke of a plan which has been operating successfully in California, at the Maternity Cottage, where maternity cases are cared for twelve days at a cost of approximately $29, plus the fees of the doctor. The Liberty stake is now planning for a loan chest.
Mrs. Rachel Grant Taylor, president of the Relief Societies of the Northern States mission, won the applause from the Relief Society women assembled when she made a plea for instructions in mothercraft to be given to young girls, in connection with maternity welfare work. Girls should not only know how to cook and sew, and something of algebra and history, but they should also have some knowledge of the wonderful mission of creation which has been entrusted to them. Mrs. Taylor spoke of the classes which she formerly conducted at the L. D. S. University, where girls were instructed in mothercraft, and where, in addition, the girls were taught to make layettes in the sewing classes of the school. They took much more interest in making these baby clothes than in making clothing for themselves.
LEADERSHIP IN THE STAKE Counselor Jennie B. Knight
Mrs. Jennie B. Knight began her discussion of "Leadership in the Stake" by saying, "A leader in any community is one who has intelligent understanding of the work that is to be
282 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
done, and is loyal and persistent in carrying out this work. A leader in Relief Society work must carry out the policies of the organization, and have vision of the work that is before her. Broad fields of vision will be opened during the sessions of the Relief Society conference, which will be a guide to our future work. Those among us who catch the vision and are able to make it practical in our work, will be the successful leaders."
One of the first requirements for a Relief Society leader is to have within her heart a testimony of the gospel, and a feeling that she has been called to her position through the Spirit of the Lord directing those who are in authority. Relief Society leaders, in their various callings, are representatives of the Lord, representatives of the stake priesthood president, representatives of the stake Relief Society president, and stand as proxies for the General Board in carrying the instructions of the board in all the communities where branches of the organization exist. Mrs. Knight asked her hearers to study the gospel and live the gospel in order that they might teach it more effectively. "If we have these three qualifications: that we know the gospel, teach the gospel, and live the gospel, then we are truly leaders." Mrs. Knight urged the stake leaders to be observant of the activities of other stakes, and to take advantage of the reports and suggestions which are offered through the columns of the Magazine in the "Notes From the Field" department. Stake leaders should be receptive to all good and progressive ideas in order that they may be able to better conditions in their stakes. They should read magazines and text books relative to the lessons which are outlined, and relative to the various phases of Relief Society work. Stake leaders should know not only the details of stake work, but of ward work as well. They should know whether the charity work is being looked after in the most efficient manner, whether the literary work is being received as it should be whether the work and business meetings are being conducted in a satisfactory way, and whether the teachers' work is proving beneficial, both to the teachers and to those whom they visit. The speaker emphasized the importance of careful planning for Relief Society meetings, conferences, and conventions. Regular stake board meetings should be held, in order that activities of the stake may be well planned, and in order that instructions from the General Board may be made known as soon as possible after their receipt, and arrangements made for carrying out the instructions in the various wards of the stake. The preparation for group conventions should receive serious consideration. Upon receiving notification of the date and program of the meetings of the convention, the Relief Society stake president should first consult her stake president, and acquaint him with the plan for RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE MINUTES 283 the meetings, and then make arrangements for the rooms for the use of the Relief Society. Then the details of the arrangements should be very carefully worked out, so that when the women arrive at the convention, their time will not be wasted by having to go considerable distance for their department work, or by having to wait while chairs are brought in from other rooms. Mrs. Knight stressed the importance of Relief Society stake officers cooperating with the stake presidency, and ward officers cooperating with the bishops, which will insure the help and support of the priesthood authorities in the plans and activities of the organization. Afternoon Session ANNUAL REPORT PRESENTED The annual report was presented by the general secretary, Mrs. Amy Brown Lyman, and the comparisons with reports of other years showed growth and development in all departments of the Relief Society. This report is published in full in the May issue of the Magazine. Mrs. Lyman expressed appreciation for the splendid and efficient work done by the stake secretaries in compiling and forwarding the stake reports, many of which were perfectly compiled. The major part of the time of the afternoon session was devoted to a consideration of "Educational Work in the Relief Society."" Topics under this subject were treated by members of the General Board in the order in which they follow. THE STAKE CLASS SUPERVISOR Mrs. Jeannette A. Hyde, Member of General Board First of all, a supervisor should have the spirit of her work. Secondly, she should have time for her work, and should be ' willing to make the necessary preparation for it. Stake supervisors, whether. Class supervisors or activity supervisors, should consult often with the Relief Society stake president. By consultation needless confusion and misunderstanding is prevented. That which a supervisor might feel would be worthy of special mention, might not be the thing that the president would emphasize. Therefore, free consultation with the president concerning the work which has been given for supervision will prevent misunderstandings. It is the duty of the stake class supervisor to be well prepared with her lessons. In most stakes there is a supervisor for each course of study and there is therefore no reason for unpreparedness.. The supervisor can be of great help to ward class leaders 284 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE by giving the lessons in union meetings, by furnishing apt and interesting references, and by visiting the ward classes as a means of checking up the work and surveying the special needs in each ward class, A great satisfaction in the Relief Society class work is the knowledge that in every branch in the Church, on a given day, the same lesson is being given. This is a great inspiration to every one concerned. Uniform study, unified effort in activities, and a spirit of love, make for progress and development. The General Board has asked that in the wards a few minutes' time of the work and business meeting be used for a discussion of the teachers' topic, and it would be a good plan for stake workers to see if this is being carried out. THE WARD CLASS LEADER Counselor Louise Y. Robison In our great organization there are many offices and positions that need specialized workers. We have been too apt in the past to ask people whom we knew were dependable and faithful to fill offices regardless of their other qualifications, and oftentimes these people have not been the ones who would make those offices the strongest. In our work in the Relief Society it is necessary to have the president, counselors, secretary, and other officers, and class leaders, and necessary that all should have the same spirit, but there should be and is a diversity of gifts among them, and there are diversified needs in the work. One of the most important workers in the organization is the class leader, who should be a person having special qualifications. All ward presidents realize that they need class leaders to begin work in the fall of the year, but if they have not given this matter any thought and attention prior to this time, they will be at a loss to secure the right kind of women to act in this capacity. Officers should be alert and keep their eyes open for good material. They will often discover college girls and school teachers who have not become affiliated with any organization, but who would make very capable class leaders in the organization, if they were invited to take up the work. There are several qualifications for the ideal class leader. First would be her spirituality, which is fundamental; secondly, her dependability, for if a class leader is not dependable, if she is not prepared or is often absent, how can the officers enthusiastically urge good attendance; thirdly, a teacher should know her subject; fourthly, a class teacher should have a sympathetic understanding of the people with whom she is working, and adapt the lesson to the class, by modifying or simplifying the lesson where necessary. RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE MINUTES — 285 I think the class leader can lead her group very much as the captain in the army leads the men. They must be close enough to him to hear what he says, and to know his motives and desires. If the leader should be so far in advance of the men that they could not hear his commands, they would become confused, and I think that is the case in many of our groups. If some one were to talk to me on some scientific subject of which I know nothing, I should probably be thinking of how I could make over one of the children's dresses, or paper a room, because I would not know what he was talking about. I remember at a ward conference one day, a sister past middle age, evidently not a college woman, gave me help and inspiration because she made the Scriptures a part of me, and made me want to respond to the lesson that she gave on the Scriptures. Her sympathetic appreciation of her audience was her strong point. So that a class leader must have a knowledge of the gospel, and she must have dependability; but these are not enough. She must have the facts of the lesson, but that is not sufficient. She must have enough tact to convert the lesson into a personal message to each woman. On the other hand, class teachers, after they have prepared their lessons, which often takes hours of research and study, are entitled to some consideration from the officers and from the class. If the president allows any kind of program or announcements or plans for bazaars, etc., to encroach on the allotted time of the teacher, who has made such extensive preparation, the teacher will become discouraged. I recently attended a meeting where they were planning for a ward bazaar. The class ledder had come fully prepared with the lesson, and when the committee work was finished, which should have been done in separate committee meetings, this class leader had ten minutes to present the lesson. Also the class leaders would be greatly encouraged if all officers and members would always come prepared. The annual report shows that many of the officers are not subscribers to the Magazine. This probably accounts for the condition in some of the wards where the officers apparently know nothing of the lesson, and contribute nothing to the recitation. When one has work to do, tools are necessary. Certainly the Magazine, with its lessons, is the important tool for the officers and members of the Relief Society.. OBJECT AND PREVIEW OF LESSONS THEOLOGY Mrs. Lotta P. Baxter, Member of General Board I am sure you will all be delighted to know that from now until the close of the year we shall study the marvelous parables 286  RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE of the Savior. Isaiah prophesied that there would come a time when the gospel would be taught in parables, and our Lord and Master was the one who fulfilled that prophecy. Isaiah prophesied and said, "People will hear and in no wise will they understand. They will see but in no wise wiil they perceive." Jesus quoted this when he started his ministry, and he turned to his disciples and said, "Blessed are your eyes, for they see; and your ears, for they hear; for verily I say unto you, that many prophets and righteous men have desired to see these things which ye see, and have not seen them; and to hear these things which ye hear, and have not heard them.". Jesus of Nazareth was the greatest teacher who ever lived, and consequently the greatest psychologist, and he knew the value of teaching people by story, rather than by giving them the plain facts of the gospel, which they were too simple, and too childlike and too set in their ways, to understand. A greater lesson may be taught to the average person by story than by giving plain, cold facts; so all through the ministry of Christ the parable was a favorite means of teaching. The Savior used for illustrations the common things that he saw around him, to reach the greatest lessons that have ever been taught; and although two thousand years have passed, the parables are just as fascinating as they were when he presented them. He used the seed and the sower and the fields; and to convince the women of the wonder of the gospel, he took the leaven or the yeast that they put into their bread to teach them the worth of the spirit of the gospel. How wonderful it is for us to have these lessons, and how rich will be our knowledge if, at the close of the year, we have understood and memorized all of these marvelous parables, - for there is nothing more beautiful, either in Scripture or in literature, than the parables of our Lord. Our grandparents' only readirs material was the Bible, and they faithfully read it to their children; but today, with the great amount of reading matter, books, magazines, newspapers, etc., we have grown away from Scripture reading, and for this reason we should doubly appreciate these lessons. To show you how necessary it is for the human soul to have this food, 1 will tell you that the body calls for a possible three meals a day for sustenance and growth. No matter how pressed we are for time, no matter how short we are of material, we supply these three meals a day, usually, and satisfy thoroughly the longings of the physical body for food. The spiritual in us calls for nourishment just the same as the physical body. But it is a more delicate, more subtle call, and sometimes we overlook it and pass it by. This spiritual body is the something that will sustain us when we no longer have need for temporal food. A foundation of faith, builded and strengthened by a study of our lessons will prove to be our best investment and RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE MINUTES 287 our best possession in our old age. I am reminded of the worth of this spiritual food by a stanza in one of our hymns: "I spied Him where a fountain burst Clear from the rock; His strength was gone, The heedless water mocked His thirst, He heard it, saw it hurrying on. "I ran and raised the suff'rer. Up; Thrice from the stream he drained my cup, Dipped and returned it running o'er; I drank and never thirsted more.”; A good theological teacher will not try to give all there is in a lesson. Lessons are to stimulate and incite interest, so that the class members will go home and look up not only the many beautiful things in the Scriptures that were given, but also those passages which were not given. The lesson should arouse an enthusiasm that will stimulate Scripture reading. I would like you to remember this distinctly, that the final and great aim of the theological lessons is to inspire every member with a desire to bear her testimony, and sufficient time must be allowed for this. We would not think of trying to direct or to say how one shall bear testimony, but we do feel that we can - be educated a great deal along this line. We should discourage as much as possible minute details of sacred things in the home, especially of sickbed and deathbed scenes. These are not necessary to a testimony. All we need to do is to have the Spirit of God, and be able to say as Job said, "I know that my Redeemer liveth, and that I shall stand with him in the last day,"—two verses, but that is all that is necessary. I would like to bear my testimony to the divinity of this glorious gospel and for the privilege of working in it, and I wish to thank my heavenly Father for his goodness to me and mine, and I ask it for you all, in the name of Jesus Christ, my Redeemer and my King. Amen. LITERATURE Mrs. Rosannah C. Irvine, Member of General Board In making the declaration of our faith, the Prophet Joseph Smith said, "We follow the admonition of Paul—We believe all things, we hope all things, we have endured many things, and hope to be able to endure all things. If there is anything virtuous, lovely, or of good report, or praiseworthy, we seek after these things." This was so important in the mind of Paul and our own dear prophet, that it was incorporated in our Articles of Faith, and it is quite as necessary in its way as the first prin- — ciples of the gospel. We carry them with us always, but it is a RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE quite necessary that we accept the good and the beautiful and the praiseworthy and the virtuous, wherever we find it in life. In keeping with this idea of progression and eternal advancement, our Church has always made an effort to live up to these things; and our General Board, a few years ago, inaugurated a course of study in literature by which every woman in our Church, no matter how restricted her advantages, no matter how remote her environment, can have at least a smattering of what our boys and girls are getting in college. If it were possible to entertain in our communities, at our firesides, any of the great men and women of whom we read and hear—Abraham Lincoln, Washington, Nightingale, Joan of Arc, or any of the great writers of the day, is there a woman present who would neglect the opportunity of having that man or woman at her fireside to talk with them and to have them open the vision of travel, or history, or philosophy or kindly thought? There is not a woman in the world, I think, who would neglect that opportunity of entertaining such visitors. For the past months we have had just such visitors in our midst. We have had the beloved Longfellow for two months in our homes and classes. We have had Whittier, and we are going to have others during the year. Mothers lie awake nights planning ways and means to send children to college. If refinement and culture and education are necessary to the younger generation, they are just as necessary to us. The few years' difference in our ages makes very little difference to us in the vast ages of time and eternity, and our children are proud of us in our effort to gain a knowledge of what they are studying. Literature is something true and real, and a beautiful way to gain knowledge of things going on in the world. The literature we are studying is old, old thought clothed in beautiful language. I have been surprised in visiting the stakes to observe the interest being taken in studying literature. For the rest of the year we will study the lives and works of many writers, and I envy those of you who are meeting for the first time Dr. Holmes, James Russell Lowell, Nathaniel Hawthorne, and the three women writers, Alice and Phebe Cary, and Emily Dickinson. I commend to you the saying of our prophet, and of St. Paul, "If there is anything virtuous, lovely, or of good report, or praiseworthy, we seek after these things." s] SociAL SERVICE Mrs. Cora L. Bennion, Member of General Board In our social service department, during the past two years, the women of the Relief Societies have been studying the home, RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE MINUTES 289 © home leadership, and the relationship between husband and wife, and the relationship between parent and child. Four years ago, during 1920-21, they studied the community. During the present year, it is planned to study the family in relation to society. The object of this course is to learn the needs of normal family life, how best to meet these needs, and to learn how to overcome some of the social evils that interfere with normal living. It is earnestly hoped that every member of this great organization will avail herself of the opportunity of studying this most interesting. And vital subject. Social work can be carried on only by one who understands and loves mankind. Before one can promote social welfare, he must learn how to understand human nature, and how to help intelligently those in distress. Our lessons of 1924 will enable us to do this. Relief Society workers should know how to devise ways and means to enable families to live normal, full lives. This may be done by co-operating with the public schools, health agencies, with industrial concerns, with recreation committees, and by furnishing opportunity for vocational training of the youth, in order that they may be of the greatest service to the community. The social worker should make a careful study of every family in. Need of any kind of assistance, find out the cause of the trouble, and by what means such causes may be removed. Material assistance for the time being may be necessary. In such cases it should be given promptly, but the aim should always be to give such constructive help that the people may become self-supporting. There are problems of juvenile delinquency, misunderstanding, neighborhood quarrels, and numerous other difficulties that have to be met. The Relief Society worker's mission is primarily spiritual, to help bring about better social and spiritual conditions. It may frequently happen, however, that rich families may be in as great need of Relief Society work as poor families. They need especially to learn the truth of the doctrine that it is more blessed to give than to receive. If well-to-do families who are indiffer- -ent to religion can be induced to give of their time and means for the good of their fellows, that which they give will redound to their own good. Absence of a religious spirit, and a selfish pursuit of pleasure is responsible for the high rate of divorce and the high rate of juvenile delinquency. Character is developed through service, and the best service is developed through identification with organizations which have at heart the betterment of man. The main thought underlying all social welfare work is to utilize all resources at our command to make our services just as intelligent and effective as possible, 290. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE HOW TO ANALYZE AND PREPARE LESSONS THEOLOGY Mrs. Julia A. Child, Member of General Board The first essential in preparing and presenting a lesson is to select the objective or aim of that lesson. In the May lesson, three parables given by our Savior have been selected to teach certain specific lessons. The first of these parables is the parable of the leaven. "The kingdom of heaven is likened unto leaven which a woman took, and hid in three measures of meal, till the whole was leavened." Clearly, the purpose of giving this parable is to show the far-reaching influence of a great truth or principle. We all know the power of a right idea. We know when an idea is implanted in the mind of a child, or youth, or older person, that if that idea is deeply enough planted, it will go on and on and will'not die, but will act as the leaven in the meal. If firmly rooted, good ideas and good-will go on until the whole world is leavened... The next parable is the parable of the hidden treasure. It says, "Again, the kingdom of heaven is like unto a treasure hid in a field; the which, when a man hath found, he hideth, and for joy thereof goeth and selleth all that he hath, and buyeth that field." This parable teaches us the value of the Kingdom of God. In it our attention is called to the relative value of ideals. Always through life we are confronted with the necessity of evaluating things, choosing that which seems the most desirable to have, whether it is good health or some other desirable thing. We are always confronted with the necessity of choosing that which we would have. Men must believe before they will act. They must be devoted to their ideals before they will live for them or labor for them. They must have a vision of what they hope to realize before they will make sacrifices to obtain that thing. In this parable of the hidden treasure the finding of the treasure was a source of joy to this person. But the appreciation of the value of that treasure awakened in him a desire io possess that treasure, even at the cost of all other possessions, The appreciation of this desire would not have been possible if the finder had been lacking a vision within him of the value of the treasure. For example, take the converts to our Church. After they have been thoroughly converted to the gospel, they will give up all they have previously possessed, if necessary, for the blessings of the kingdom of heaven; they will set aside all their -old customs, if necessary, for the testimony of the gospel. When our young men and women are called upon missions, fathers and mothers do not count the cost in dollars and cents when they think of the experience this mission will give to the boy or girl, RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE MINUTES 291 Brothers and sisters sacrifice willingly to help carry the gospel message. This is a joyful sacrifice, for each one who helps feels that he has a part in the building up of the kingdom of heaven, and service in the kingdom makes him a part of the kingdom, and service in this kingdom is not too great a price for a blessing in the kingdom. The third parable is the parable of the Pearl of Great Price. "Again, the kingdom of heaven is like unto a merchantman seeking goodly pearls; who, when he has found one pearl of great price, went and sold all that he had, and bought it." The Savior was an excellent teacher; he chose familiar things with which to illustrate his parables. He chose the subject of pearls in this _ parable, because that subject was close to the experiences of the people with whom he was talking. In that country the people invested most of their goods in jewels. In that country there were often revolutions and invasions, and people had often to gather up their possessions and rush from the country, and if their wealth was invested in jewels they could carry them more easily than anything else. The pearl was one of the most precious jewels they had. For that reason the Savior uses it to show the value of the kingdom of heaven. The purpose of the Savior in giving this parable was to show that a knowledge and appreciation of the kingdom of heaven with its privileges and blessings would lead one to place all other values in a lower plane, and any person seeking happiness and desiring to obtain eternal life would sacrifice all else for it. LITERATURE Mrs. Annie Wells Cannon, Member of General Board To me poetry is a beautiful expression of the human soul, and I think it is a splendid thing, sometimes, to soar to the heights out of the sordid and everyday things of life, through the medium of imagery. If I were giving this lesson in a ward Relief Society, I should not give it all myself; I should only try to lead out and ask the members to do the work, to read the poems, and to tell the story. We are told by Olive Schriner that greatness is to take the common things of life and to talk nobly about them. Poets take the common things of life and show us the beauty therein. The poet Burns, and nearly all other poets have that gift, Lowell shows us that beautiful quality in his poem, To the Dandelion. James Russell Lowell was one of the most versatile of our American authors. He was not only a poet but a critic, an orator, a scholar, a satirist, and a humorist; however, he was, I think, greatest as a poet. In our past lessons we have learned that James a RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Russell Lowell was one of the wonderful group of New England literary men, who established literary standards in America; that he was contemporary with Longfellow, Emerson, Whittier, Holmes; that his daily walks were along the elm-shaded paths and through the halls of Harvard University. In the present lesson, two very beautiful pictures stand out in relief, so that an artist might paint in color without a model. The first picture that presents itself is the picture of George Washington when he took command of the American army on July 3, 1775, under the old elm tree. Within the year that is past, the Washington Elm, cherished very tenderly for years, has given way, making it necessary to pull it down and dig up the roots. On the one hundredth anniversary of Washington's taking command of the army, Lowell's poem, Under the Old Elm, was read: Musing beneath the legendary tree, 7 The years between furl off; I seem to see The sun-flecks, shaken the stirred foliage through, Dapple with gold his sober buff and blue And weave prophetic aureoles round the head That shines our beacon now nor darkens with the dead. O man of silent mood, A stranger among strangers then, How art thou since renowned the Great, the Good, Familiar as the day in all the homes of men! The winged years, that winnow praise and blame, Blow many names out: they but fan to flame The self-renewing splendors of thy fame. Do you see the picture? Can you not go back to 1775 and see that great majestic figure of George Washington, under the spreading boughs of the elm tree, with the sunshine gleaming through its leaves and scattered in flecks on the buff and blue uniform, where he stands with his cocked hat and his sword at his side, taking command of the American army? The writer of the lesson on the first page tells us of the visit that she made herself to the home of Lowell and she describes that home. Any one at all familiar with New England knows that the topography of the country is mainly wooded hills and running brooks. If you have read mother's poetry, you can almost smell the hemlock ana the spruce and pine of old New England, and here, shaded by these wonderful elm trees and the beautiful fir trees, stands the ancestral home of the Lowell family. How fortunate that he was born, lived and died in that ancestral home. A square house, three stories high, with three windows across the front of the third and second stories, and in the front of the first story, there is a beautiful arched door between the windows. The house is painted buff with white trimmings—a frame house. And from the studio window it is possible to look out and to see Mt. Auburn, that little historic cemetery where so many of America's great are RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE MINUTES 293 buried, where Longfellow lies, where Lowell himself now lies, where Edwin Booth is buried, and other great American people. Mt, Auburn has become noted in American history. On a snowy day, when the snow had been falling all night, Lowell was looking from his study window at Mt. Auburn, and he was inspired to write these words as he thought of a little mound, the grave of his own little daughter, Blanche, in Mt. Auburn: The snow had begun in the gloaming And busily all the night Had been heaping field and highway With a silence deep and white. (See March Magazine for entire poem) SoctaL SERVICE Mrs. Amy W. Evans, Member of General Board In preparing and analyzing this lesson on social service, the first step is to state that the aim of the lesson is obtained by getting a view of it as a whole. The next step is a consideration of the points of the lesson to be emphasized, usually four or five. In order to get these points each paragraph is studied by itself. 1 selected five points in the lesson which I think are of vital importance to all members of this organization who have the great responsibility of assisting human beings, human beings with problems that they themselves are unable to solve unaided. The first paragraph calls for a discussion of the causes which force people to turn with hope and trust to the bishop, to the Relief Society, or to some other agency for help. What are these causes? I am sure if we had time for you to answer that you would say, sickness, unemployment, insufficient income, ill health, or perhaps some behavior problem among the members of the family. When any one of these problems becomes acttte and cannot be handled alone, then the individual calls for help. The next paragraph emphasizes that the person who gives help and assistance has a responsibility toward those she is helping. What is this responsibility? It is that the advice be sound and the assistance helpful. I would take the time at this point in the lesson to discuss the term, helpful assistance. It means a great deal. It means that an individual or a group must be made stronger—never weaker; that their strength should be ministered to rather than their weakness. This is a great point in the lesson. It would be difficult to overestimate it. Helpful assistance means opportunities for health, for education, for spiritual growth, and the inspiration to better living. It is no exaggeration to call this work great. Its results in the words of Tennyson, "roll from soul to soul and grow forever and forever." 294 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE In reading the next three paragraphs I find this question, and its answer, “What must the relief worker do to insure sound advice and helpful assistance to those with social problems?" After looking after the emergency with material relief, she must get an understanding of the problem as a whole. This requires a study of the individuals concerned and the getting of concrete facts, also the correct interpretation of these facts. The example given in the paragraphs just mentioned is that of a man, the head of a family, out of employment. What does that social problem in~ volve and how shall we best solve it? These are questions. He must have a permanent job, if possible, one that he is capable of holding. There are some facts that the relief worker must know before this can be done. She must know the work history of the man, whether he works at a seasonable trade, whether he is an industrial misfit and perhaps has been struggling for years with a job for which he is not fitted. The fact that the man is out of a job may be only a symptom of a more serious difficulty. It is important that his likings and his aptitudes be known. These facts and many others may be known by talking with him, by getting his family's opinion, and by consulting with former fellow workers and employers. It is sometimes found that the man is not the only one involved, but that his wife and children are included. If the man has been out of employment for a long time, they may have been seriously affected. Are the children properly nourished? What is the condition of their health? Do they need thé care of a physician or a dentist? Are their educational opportunities being curtailed? Is their spiritual welfare being looked after? Do they have the necessary clothes to go to - Sunday School? As you know, the five elements of normal life are health, education, employment or income, recreation, and spiritual welfare. The social worker should know the school records of the children and the attainments of the different members of the family; she should know their capabilities and ambitions, in fact, a real sympathetic understanding of the problem as a whole. She must know the income and whether it can be increased by the family, or supplemented by others in order that the family can live a fairly normal life. After getting all these important facts and all others that are valuable, after getting an understanding of the individuals and the conditions surrounding them, and after studying the social problems from all angles, then the social worker is in a position to give the best advice and most helpful assistance. The next point in the lesson is, What does it take to study a social problem thoroughly and get down to the bottom of the difficulty? The answer is, time. It cannot be accomplished in one visit. It requires hours of patient service. It takes some- RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE MINUTES 295 thing else. The lesson says it takes a deep understanding of human interest, or in other words, the spirit of the gospel of Jesus Christ, which is the spirit of love-—love of God and love of humanity. The last point in the lesson is that the relief worker must keep sacred the confidences of the individuals whom she is trying to help. They must be able to trust her completely, and to feel that she is indeed a true and sincere friend. If she cannot get their confidence, she is unable to help them to the fullest extent to solve their problem. They must trust her and must feel that she is sincere. In summing up the points of this lesson, I would say that the aim is to show what is required of a relief worker in studying a social problem; that the helper has a responsibility in making her advice sound and her assistance helpful; that this requires a study of the whole problem and the possession of all valuable facts, and a knowledge of all the conditions affecting the problem; that this takes time and the spirit of the gospel. You cannot help others if you do not love them. If you are not deeply interested in them, your help will be of no avail. You cannot help people with an air that you are above them, that you are another sort of human being altogether. You must have that love for them and that sympathy and human desire to be able to help them. The last point is that the worker must keep sacred the confidences of those she would help, if she would be successful in studying their social problems. VISITING TEACHERS' TOPIC Miss Sarah M. McLelland, Member of General Board At our last conference President Williams requested that hereafter every stake instruct the teachers to discuss the teachers' topics in the homes of the people they visit. It has also been suggested as an aid to the teachers that a few moments be set aside at the beginning of each work and business meeting for a discussion of these topics. In some stakes teachers attend union meetings where the topic is discussed, but in other stakes there is not this opportunity. Teachers should be instructed and prepared to take notes when the topic is discussed. Much of the success of our organization depends upon the Relief Society teachers. They are called the inspiration of the society and to be this inspiration they should make their messages important. Just how to present atopic successfully is a problem. We have, as teachers, the mothers of large families with many duties, we have young mothers just starting to solve the problems of life, and we have the convert who is willing to give a portion of her time to the work but feels new in the task. A 296 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE helpful contribution in the discussion of the topic is often made by the families visited. This is commendable. Teachers and hostess should both be familiar with the teachers' topic and if teachers do not lead out in the discussion, the hostess should do so. I would suggest that the teacher take her magazine with her and read aloud the topic. This will help to open up the discussion. The standard. Of teaching must be high if we progress in this line of endeavor, and prayerful preparation will result in better service. The teacher who is not converted to her work or who feels that she is not successful should not become discouraged, for the spirit of the calling comes often after one has put forth effort. She should also pray for power equal to her task. When teachers are inclined to lose heart and courage, they should bear in mind that any one who does her work in such a spirit as to reflect honor upon her work and upon herself, cannot possibly be counted as a failure. Singleness of purpose, devotion to duty, and unremitting toil mark the road to success. The failure in life is usually the one who was not prepared to do the things he had tried to do. Any service that does not require self sacrifice is of little benefit. In serving our God some of us give part-time service while drawing full-time pay. We care for the office—not for the work. "He who serves his brother best, Gets nearer God than all the rest." Teachers should appreciate the privilege of working as instructors under the direction of a prophet of the true and living God, who has said we can not be saved in ignorance, and should feel that this work is one of the greatest privileges the organization gives to its members. An example of appreciating the opportunity of teaching is shown in the following incident: A district teacher told me recently that her husband wanted her to give up teaching. He said she was over-burdened (being the mother of nine children). Her answer was this question: "Would you take the great joy which is my opportunity for public service, out of my life?" A careful study of the teachers' topics is absolutely necessary; so also is a careful study of the families to be visited in order to know best how to appeal to them. Teachers visit homes of those who welcome them; also those who are indifferent. It requires both experiences to develop us— everything has its opposite. We are overjoyed when we are well received, and when our message is rejected, we are temporarily discouraged, but we put forth greater effort in order to succeed. Teaching is not a minor calling; it is a holy calling. The Bible teaches that "the eye cannot say unto the hand, I have no need of thee, nor again the head to the feet, I have no need of RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE MINUTES 297 you." All activities have a place in this great organization. In my experience as a teacher in the mission field, I found the Lord to be a good paymaster, not in gold and silver but in the satisfaction that comes to us only when we have done our duty. RELIEF SOCIETY NURSE AIDS' CLASS Mrs. Emma A, Empey, Member of General Board The General Board regrets very much that it is necessary to announce that the Relief Society course for nurse aids at the L. D, S. Hospital has been temporarily suspended. This action was taken in order to protect the standards of the L. D. S. Hospital. It is hoped by all concerned, however, that within a short time, the course may be resumed. You are all aware of the fact that high schools, universities, hospitals, and other institutions must maintain certain established standards, in order to have recognition, and in order to have the graduates of such institutions recognized, and it seems that the ruling with regard to hospitals is that unless a hospital has two hundred beds daily occupied, the American standards will not permit of such hospitals having two schools for nurses. Recently a hospital inspector was here from New York, making a survey of the various hospitals throughout the west. She intimated to the L. D. S. Hospital that in all probability there would be objections by the Hospital Commission to the course for nurse aids. Soon after her return to New York, a letter was received by Supt. Grant, of the L. D. S. Hospital, stating that in order to maintain its recognition, the L. D. S. Hospital must discontinue the course for nurse aids, Supt. Grant and the Board of Trustees of the Hospital appealed to the national rating organization for special permission to continue the course, explaining the great need of the course, and the splendid results from it. In reply, word was sent that the course must be cut out at once, or the hospital would be dropped from the list of accredited institutions. So the Nurse Aids Class has been discontinued, but it is hoped only temporarily. The class which had been installed last August was retained, but the new applicants who came in the first of the year were referred to the County Hospital, where they all entered the threeyear course., Since there is a feeling throughout the United States that something must be done in the near future to supply practical nurses for the people of moderate means, it is felt by everybody concerned that it will not be long until arrangements will be made in various hospitals throughout the country for a course shorter than the three-year course. In the meantime, Supt. Grant will RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE make every effort to re-establish the course at the L. D. S, Hospital, and it is hoped that not much time will elapse before this is done. The Relief Society will for the time being continue to make every possible effort to recruit nurses for the various Church hospitals, and the Salt Lake County Hospital, and the General Board asks as a special favor that stake and ward presidents continue their support in these matters, and encourage young women to enter the hospitals for regular training. GENERAL MEETINGS Morning Session President Williams "welcomed the large audience of Relief Society women who crowded the Assembly Hall to capacity, and extended to them the greetings of the General Board. She expressed pleasure in the large attendance which she felt indicated the great interest of the women of the Church in the work of the Relief Society.: The speakers of the day were presented by President Williams, according to the scheduled program. MRS. GRACE E. CALLIS President of Relief Societies, Southern States Mission I rejoice to be a worker in the Relief Society with my Southern sisters. They are naturally a kind, hospitable people, and so respond readily to the call of the Relief Society work, and are willing at all times to give their time, their talent, and their means in this great work. I desire for a moment to speak of some of the spiritual activities among the sisters in the Southern States. The sisters in the mission field, perhaps more than our sisters in the stakes of Zion, feel the necessity and the responsibility of promulgating the gospel, and so to them is given, or should be given, much credit for the establishment of places of worship in the missions. Recently, in Memphis, Tennessee, a little chapel was erected and the women of the Relief Society worked diligently in this service, and through their efforts, from parties, the sale of cakes, etc., they were able to contribute hundreds of dollars to the building fund. In Columbus, Georgia, we have recently added a Sunday School room to our chapel, and the Re-ief Society raised the money for the seats and for the other furnishings. The Springfield Branch of Jacksonville, Florida, recently were accorded the privilege of selling cakes at the front entrance ot one of the large department stores of that city, from the sale of which they raised over $100, which will be used for the benefit of a chapel to be erected in that city. In Petersburg, Virginia, RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE MINUTES 299 and in Danville, Virginia, the Societies are taking the responsibility of purchasing lots on which they hope to erect chapels. In Petersburg they have an unfortunate old man without means of - support, and the Relief Society is giving him help. In Atlanta we have a dear sister who also is without relatives and who has reached the age where she is not able to work and make her own living. We have rented a room for her and are giving her her food and clothing. We raised some of the means to help in this work by holding a rummage sale. The merchants of the city gave some of the left-over stock, and we were accorded free of charge places in one of the public markets to dispose of our wares, and so gratifying were the results from this rummage sale that we are planning to have another in the near future. We have an organization in one of our Indian nations, composed of our Lamanite women. They make very interesting and unique articles of pottery, which are sold to tourists and in this way they raise means to help them in their work. Often the tourists meet with them in their meetings and are impressed with the faithfulness of these dear women. One of the interesting features of our Relief Society work is the influence that it is having in the outlying districts where the sisters are not permitted to meet in organizations. They feel in their hearts a desire to be useful and to do something that is helpful, and they make quilts, pillow slips, dresser scarfs, and send them in to mission headquarters for the benefit of the needy. Recently we had an elderly sick man in one of the hospitals, and each morning he found in his room a beautiful bouquet of flowers. The one who sent them did not wish her identity discovered, but sent word, however, that she was an aged relative of the Prophet Joseph Smith. My dear sisters, many of you who are before me today have sons and daughters or loved ones in the mission field. In the Southern States mission it has been my privilege and blessing to meet with these dear ones, sent from your homes, and I want to say to you that the wonderful influence that the mothers have over their sons and daughters, and the teachings they have given them in their youth, are ripened in the mission field, and this is the great thing that helps them to go on in this great field of service. During the last month there came under my observation the sorrow of two elders, bowed in grief from the death of their mothers at home. In each case President Callis gave permission for them to return home with honorable releases. But. They each remained, saying, ""My dear mother desired that. I fill my mission in honor. She would desire me to stay in the field, and so I will stay." May the influence of the good women of this Church still 300  RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE continue to shed its light and. Go forth and help to hold the world together. May we all be anxiously engaged in the good cause to bring forth much righteousness, is my prayer. "MRS. RACHEL GRANT TAYLOR President of Relief Societies, Northern States Mission The mission presidents are like mothers in a way. I claimed a big family of girls when I was at the L. D. S.  and now I have a big family of missionaries, The only trouble is that in the cases of some of your sons and daughters, I do not see them as often as I should like to. If there is one ambition in my heart it is to make the mission home a home. We are glad to have all the missionaries join our big family. Our hearts go out to these wonderful boys and girls and we are proud of the progress they are making, and of their development. I feel very inexperienced in Relief Society work. When I was. Told that my husband was to preside over the mission, and that in most cases the wife of the mission president becomes president of the Relief Society, I was nearly overcome. I have worked in Church organizations all my life, but it happened that I worked in the Primary, and in the Sunday School, and in the Mutual. I am learning all the time, however, and hope to carry out the desires of the General Board successfully. We have in the Northern States mission thirteen organizations, All of the different organizations have studied all of the subjects as outlined in the Magazine. I feel proud of the fact that out of the sixty-three officers we have, fifty-nine subscribe for our Relief Society Magazine. Next year, if possible, we will have 100%. One thing that we are trying to emphasize in the mission field is the gospel conversations and things of that type that we do. I believe that in the mission field the duties of the Relief Society officers vary a little from those in the stakes, because conditions are different. Women missionaries have a wonderful opportunity of preaching the gospel. They go into homes, where the missionaries would not be received. By their lives they teach the gospel. Last year over thirteen hundred gospel conversations were held, and many Church books were sold by them. These records and figures do not always show the amount of work actually done, but they are an index to what is being accomplished.: I sent out to the Relief Societies in our field three questions —the. Type of question which I think is a good thing for us to ask ourselves in regard to the gospel of Christ. 1. What does Relief Society mean to you? 2. What does it do for you? 3. In what ways does it strengthen the branch and build up the branch with RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE MINUTES 301 which you are connected? In sending out the questionnaire I had a double object. I wanted these members of the association not only to send that report to me but I wanted these members to take stock of what the Relief Society meant to them, what it could be as an upbuilding force in the community in which they lived. It was inspiring to receive the letters. In answer. Under the first question, one answer said that the Relief Society was a light to their path, and a guide to their feet, that it was the next thing to their homes; that it gives an opportunity to develop, both as individuals and groups, and that through the doctrine of good works, a firmer faith is gained. Also, in another way, some one expressed it that the Relief Society gives opportunity for practical application of the gospel principles. Many of the responses ' expressed appreciation for the Magazine and for the lessons outlined in it. In a very personal letter, one woman said, it was a prop to her when she was discouraged and downhearted. Many of them said that the thing that appeals to them is the meetings for they feel that these are their own meetings. Under the second question, some of the answers were that the Relief Society gives the women confidence in taking part, and in assuming responsibility. Answers taqthe third question included among other thoughts, this, that the Relief Societies are depended upon and relied upon for much of the important practical work in the branches, such as furnishing carpet or extra chairs, or sacrament service for the new chapel. During the last year two of our organizations have donated $100 each for the building fund, and when you consider the size of these organizations, this is a wonderful record, for they have an average attendance of but 15. I feel that the Relief Society women in this mission are living up to the teachings of the Prophet Joseph Smith, in helping and strengthening the Church in every field of endeavor, MRS. MARIE YOUNG President of Relief Societies, Northwestern States Mission Since my appointment, I have visited the coast cities of our mission, and expect this coming year to visit the remaining branches if possible. In the city of Portland, we have an interesting Relief Society, and meetings are all well attended. At the present time this branch is busily engaged in raising funds to put in a new heating system in the chapel. Our branch Relief Societies hold a fair each year to raise charity funds, and the members are busily engaged during the summer in preparing for these fairs. They make aprons and quilts and various kinds of fancy work, and the proceeds from the sale of these articles are used 302  RELIEF SOCIETY. MAGAZINE to help those who are in need. We had an incident occur in the Portland Branch that I wish to mention. Two of our young married couples bought and installed a radio set in the room of a blind sister who is an inmate of an old ladies' home, and in whom the Relief Society is very much interested, and the joy of that sister in this kind act can hardly be expressed. In the Spokane Branch we have another large society, and during the winter months, these members have been busily engaged in remodeling clothing for those who are in need, regardless of religious affiliations. In Seattle, Washington, we have two active Societies, and in the East Seattle Branch they have a fine Relief Society choir under the able direction of one of the members. A part of the Seattle branch is a little town called Black Diamond, and here the elders in their tracting found a number of our young people who had gone out into the northwest to work in the coal mines, and had drifted away from all Church activities, and had almost forgotten the Church. They are now living the lives of real Latter-day Saints, and attending to their Church duties. We organized a Relief Society there last year which is a 100% Society. They hold meetings in the evening, as the women keep the stores, etc., while the men work. The men attend and take just as much part in the Relief Society outlines and studies as do the women, and are as much interested. The British Columbia Society in Vancouver is very much interested in Relief Society work. They have a capable president and are taking up the Magazine lessons. I received a letter from one of the presidents in the Montana conference which said that they had. Made quilts and other articles for those who are in need, and one mother who has six children and who underwent an operation last fall, has been helped especially by the Society. The women put up one hundred quarts of fruit for her, buying the fruit and the sugar; they took her piece bag and made her two quilts, and did everything possible to help the mother through the winter. We have organized during the past year seven new societies, four since the beginning of this year. They are all very small, but we are endeavoring to place before them the value of Relief Society work. The Magazine is a blessing in the missions, especially since we are so far away from the general headquarters, and it is fully appreciated. At Christmas time all the Societies send out baskets for the poor and for the sick. We are all very much interested in the Sheppard-Towner act, and in maternity work generally. We have suggested to the Societies that they put a maternity chest in each of their branches, tuch a chest to include everything that would be needed in any sickness. I can not say. Too much for the work of our young lady missionaries. They are a great help in keeping up the morale of _ 304 - RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE members of the organization, as well as that you should mention the benefits derived from membership. The Relief Society teachers and special visitors. Go from home to home are doing a very splendid work. The number of visits which have been made by the Relief Society teachers alone during the past year is more than 569,000. Now, if you are doing as we have suggested—taking up the teachers' topics as a subject of conversation during your visits to the members of the wards, we feel that very great good is being accomplished, because in these topics are given studies of the gospel, some of the topics of the day, and other matter which will be not only of very great interest to the teachers, but also to the families visited. We have felt that by making an organized effort along this line that we would be able to accomplish much good; that we would be able to increase the faith of the women and the children that we visit, and that in every way we would be helping to build up the Church and to encourage the activities and the work of the Relief Society organizations. As well as the visits of the Relief Society teachers, we sometimes send out visitors especially to those whom we call the homebound—those of our sisters who are confined to their homes through illness or through disability, and are not able to get out to the meetings,—with a view of taking a little sunshine into such homes. We also do our part in preparing the dead for burial. And we feel that it is a very sacred work which has been given to us to do. During last year our Relief Society women have assisted in preparing for burial over 2,500 members of the communities. In addition to this work we want to say to you that we believe better work has been done in looking after those in our communities who are not able to take care of themselves, in a financial way, or who need some assistance in their homes of a financial nature, as well as other help. We feel that our co-operation with the bishops and the help that we give them, and the spirit which is actuating the Relief Society presidencies and the bishoprics to get closer together in their work, is resulting in very great good in the Church, and that as time goes on we shall see the result of our efforts in not only providing for the emergency wants of those who are in! Need of assistance, but that we shall be able through study and careful planning and work to assist them to overcome the disabilities under which they are laboring, and that they will be able to be more helpful to themselves. There have been several reorganizations during the past year. We should like to read. The names of those dear women who have been honorably released, and the names of the women who have been called to take their places: RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE MINUTES 305 REORGANIZATIONS REPORTED SINCE OcToBER, 1923 Alberta stake, reorganized November 1, 1923, Mrs, Annie D. Snow, released, Mrs. Jane W. Bates, appointed president; 'Ensign stake, reorganized November 19, 1923; Mrs. Elise B. Alder, released, Mrs. Irene M. Richards, appointed president; Utah stake, reorganized January 13, 1924, Mrs. Inez K. Allen released, Mrs. Electa S. Dixon, appointed president; Idaho stake, reorganized January 26, 1924, Mrs. Sarah M. Banks, released, Mrs. Delia Lechtenberg, appointed president; Rigby stake, reorganized March, 1924, Mrs. Elizabeth J. Hart, released, Mrs. Lettie E. Call, appointed president; Hawaiian mission, reorganized August 4, 1923, Mrs. May Smith, released, Mrs. Louise C. Neff, appointed president; Samoan mission, reorganized 1923, Mrs. Thurza A. Adams, released, Mrs. Nettie L. Butler, appointed president. We wish to say to you that these women who have been released from their duties Have in every way filled the office acceptably. They have given entire satisfaction to the General Board, and we know that they have given satisfaction to the communities in which their labors have been given, and there have been good and sufficient reasons why these releases have been made, some because of illness, some because of removal, and other causes. We regret to report that just yesterday, Sister Signe A. Davis, president of the Blackfoot stake Relief Society, was called home to her heavenly Father. Sister Davis has been a progressive, capable president, and we, with her family and her intimate friends, mourn her demise. As Relief Society women and as the mothers in our communities, we fee] that very grave responsibility rests with us; we are interested in our own organization, and in the desire to build it up and to do everything we can to forward it. We are also interested in the rising generation. We are deeply interested in the Young Ladies' Mutual Improvement Association and in the Primary Association. They are doing excellent work, and endeavoring in every way to lay the foundation in the hearts and minds of the children and young people for their future growth 'and helpfulness in the Church. We feel that we can assist both of these organizations by taking an interest in the work and by supporting them at all times. I presume you women are all acquainted with the recreation work which is being carried on under the direct supervision of the M. I. A., and that you are co-operating in every way to make it a success. We want to say to you, sisters, that we must never get too old to play. We must never be too old to endeavor to throw off our daily cares occasionally and take up a little recreational work, which would put our minds to rest and help our 306... RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE bodies to be younger. We commend this work to you. I believe I may be safe in saying to you, however, that we think it is not necessary for our Relief-Society women to carry it too far. We believe that we are rather a dignified organization as the mothers of the Church, and we feel that our recreation must be carried on in a dignified way, not in a boisterous, rollicking way. I think you will all remember how the Relief Society, for many years, talked to you on the fly problem. We are now perfectly delighted to have to say to you that the Primary children—80,000 Primary children, through the advice of their General Board, this coming year are waging death and destruction to the fly, and we want you to help them and encourage them in every way you can. You know that the fly is one of the deadliest of insects, and we feel that you should encourage your children and your Primary officers in letting them know that you are heart and soul in harmony with them in this work.
Now, in all our communities, my dear sisters, we feel that the Relief Society women are the right hand of all civic improvement organizations, and we look to you not only to assist but to inaugurate movements which shall have for their object the cleaning up, the betterment, and the health of your communities. There is little use for our meeting together to discuss betterment work unless we go back to our communities and work with all our strength in the interest of bettering conditions. We want to commend especially one little ward of less than twenty Relief Society members, in a stake in the south, which is working with the bishop and others to get a little park started, where they may meet for recreation during the summer time. We have endeavored to give them the encouragement that was necessary for them to have, by sending to them some literature, that will be helpful, and by suggesting to them some ways in which they will be able to get some financial help in carrying out that project.
My dear sisters, the greatest thing of all for the Relief Society women is to have faith in their heavenly Father, and the belief that we belong to the true and living Church, and that through our efforts the work will progress and will be built up until the time is ripe for the coming of the Savior. It is essential with all the many cares and duties that we have, that we should be loving and kind to those about us, that harmony should dwell in our homes and be in our relations with those of our neighbors and friends, that we should be charitable in the true sense of the word, and free from fault-finding. Perhaps some of us may naturally be a little inclined not always to agree with what is going on, but let us endeavor to be in harmony with the spirit of the gospel, as it is promulgated to us through the anointed of the Lord.
308 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
recorded in the Doctrine and Covenants, says, "I, the Lord, will forgive whom I will forgive, but of you it is required to forgive all men, and ye ought to say in your hearts, 'let God judge between me and thee according to thy deeds.'" I heard the other day of a woman who lived on the same street as her father and yet she had not spoken to him for many years. I heard also of a Relief Society president who, upon learning that one of the members of the Society was offended because of some action on the part of the presidency of the Relief Society, went to the home of this sister and tried to talk matters over, to apologize, if necessary, and make things right, but this sister could find no place in her heart for forgiveness and so the president turned away sorrowing for that sister. Which of the two women would be happiest today? My father has often said: "Hate hurts the hater worse than the hated." Peter, on one occasion, said to Jesus, "How oft shall my brother sin against me, and I forgive him? Till seven times? And Jesus said unto him, "I say not unto thee until seven times, but until seventy times seven." Then he said, "Therefore is the Kingdom of Heaven likened unto a certain king, which would take account of his servants and one was brought unto him which owed him ten thousand talents, but forasmuch as he had not to pay, his Lord commanded him to be sold and his wife and children and all that he had and payment to be made. The servant, therefore, fell down and worshiped him saying, Lord, have patience with me, and I will pay thee all. Then the Lord of that servant was moved with compassion, and loosed him and forgave him the debt.
"But the same servant went out, and found one of his fellow-servants which owed him an hundred pence; and he laid hands on him, and took him by the throat, saying, Pay me that thou owest. And his fellow-servant fell down at his feet and besought him saying, Have patience with me, and I will pay thee all. And he would not; but went and cast him into prison.
"So when his fellow-servants saw what was done, they were very sorry and came and told unto their Lord all that was done. Then the Lord after that he had called him, said unto him, O, thou wicked servant. I forgave thee all that debt because thou desirest me: Shouldst not thou also have had compassion on thy fellow-servant, even as I had pity on thee? And his Lord was wroth, and delivered him unto the tormentors till he should pay all that was due unto him. So likewise shall my heavenly Father do also unto you, if ye from your hearts forgive not every one his brothers their trespasses."
Is it not a truth that Jesus taught us to pray: Forgive us our trespasses as we forgive them that trespass against us,
RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE MINUTES 309
Martin Luther commenting on this said, "When thou sayest, 'I will not forgive,' and stand before God with your pater noster, and mumblest, 'Forgive us our debts,' it is the same as saying, 'I do not forgive him, so do not thou God, forgive me.'"
In our homes let us not hold grudges one toward another, but seek and pray daily to find a way to forgive one another, remembering that forgiveness is like mercy, "It is twice blessed, it blesses him that gives and him that receives." If we could become as little children in this particular how much happier we would be, for whoever knew a little child who was not willing to forgive at the very first intimation of regret on the part of the offender; yes, and even before any repentance was shown on the part of the one who committed the offense. Did not God say, "Except ye become as little children ye can in no wise enter the kingdom of God?"
To those who have been sorely tried and bitterly offended, remember it requires a prayerful, generous and merciful heart coupled with a strong will to forgive, but remember also, an unforgiving heart places a barrier between itself and God's forgiveness, for is it not written "He that forgiveth not his brother his trespasses, standeth condemned before the Lord, for there remaineth in him the greater sin." So let us each and all bury our grievances whether they pertain to our immediate family, our church, or our neighbor, and cover this pitfall that deprives us of happiness with a slab of forgetfulness and forgive as we hope to be forgiven.
PRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANT
I do not believe that there is another organization in the world with as few members as we have in the Mormon Church that can begin to furnish a body of workers in a conference that will compare with this gathering. I am very proud indeed of the wonderful labor that has been accomplished by our Relief Societies throughout the Church. As a little child I attended a great many Relief Society meetings, because in my childhood days my mother was the president of the Thirteenth Ward Relief Society, a position she occupied for some thirty-odd years. Being her only child, and she having no one to leave me with, I attended Relief Society meeting when I was not old enough to understand what was going on. I have often remarked in a rather jocular way that I felt I was entitled to be counted as a charter member of the Relief Societies in Salt Lake City, as I believe I had attended in my childhood and young youth as many meetings as the regular members. After I was made one of the apostles, I learned of a very remarkable Relief Society meeting which I
312 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
converted and made a contribution, Then a temple was built and the man was converted to paying a donation for this purpose. Then an academy was built, and he complained again about contributing, but was finally converted. As time went on his boy graduated with honor, and the bishop came to him and told the man how he had been prospered and blessed since he had been here, and told him they wanted his boy to go on a mission, which would cost him $25 or $30 a month. The man said, "That settles it; I paid fast donations, tithing, donations for meetinghouses, temples, academies, etc., but I am not going to pay to send the boy on a mission. If the Church wants him they can simply pay his expenses. I expected that boy to make me $75 or $100 a month, to help refund some of the money I have spent to educate him. I am willing to give his services, but I won't give a dollar to send him on a mission. The Church can take it out of the tithing or he can stay home." The bishop explained that the Church would bring the boy home after his mission was completed, but that was the extent of the assistance the Church could give. The man said, then the boy must stay home. The bishop dropped the subject and commenced talking on other things, and the conversation went back to Scandinavia, and reference was made to the time the man left that country and came here. Finally, when the bishop got the man's mind entirely away from the boy's mission and everything of that nature, he said, "By the way, brother, whom do you love more than anybody else in all the wide world, except only your own family?" The man said, "Why, bishop, I love the man that came to me in the land of the midnight sun, and brought to me the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ, the plan of life and salvation. Why, I love that man beyond my power to express it." Then, said the bishop, "Would you not like somebody to love your boy just like you love that man?" The man said, "Bishop, you have licked me fair and square; the boy can go on a mission."
The Lord doesn't need your fast donations, and the tithing, but you need these things; you need to do them; I need to do them. The Lord knows what kind of material we are made of, and the necessity of our overcoming the weaknesses of the flesh. It is just as natural as it is to breathe to get on our tip-toes and get all we can and pull it in and hold it tight. It takes the gospel to reverse the situation, and to open our hearts and minds and to teach us to give and learn the lesson that it is more blessed to give than to receive. It requires the gospel to teach us the lesson that has been given here today by Sister Knight, the lesson of charity. I learned it but I learned it rather severely. A man was excommunicated from the Church by the apostles; later he repented
RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE MINUTES 313
and asked to be baptized into the Church again. President John Taylor wrote a letter to the quorum of the Twelve, saying that this man could not be received into the Church again unless every man in the quorum gave permission. If one man objected, the man could not be baptized and the president asked every man to vote the conviction of his heart, and not to vote because the others did, for the baptism. The case was considered and it was put to a vote, and there were five for baptism and seven against. Some months later the question came up again, and there were seven for baptism and five against. Later, there were three against baptism and nine in favor of it. A year or more rolled along, and finally there were two against and ten for baptism; finally eleven were for baptism and one against, and I was that one. Brother Taylor said to me, "How will you feel when you meet that man in the Great Beyond and he says, 'I repented and you were not willing for me to be baptized?'" I said, "I will feel fine. I will look him in the eye and say that a man who brought disgrace upon the Church as he did, should not come back into the Church; he could die out of the Church." President Taylor said, "If that is the conviction of your heart, stay with it." I said, "I am going to stay with it. Your letter said that I should vote the conviction of my heart and I am voting it. If you want me to vote with the other eleven, I will do it. But he said, "Stay with your conviction." After going home that day I was reading in the Doctrine and Covenants, and opened the book to a passage quoted here today, "I the Lord will forgive whom I will forgive, but of you it is required to forgive all men." I shut the book and said, "If the devil comes around and asks for baptism, he will get it as far as I am concerned." After lunch I called at the president's office and said, "That brother can be baptized; I have had a change of heart." Brother Taylor laughed and remarked that it was a very sudden change, and asked what had changed me. I told him. He said, "My boy, I wrote that letter for your benefit and for the benefit of my son. I realized that youth stands out for justice as against mercy, generally. You asked me to tell you to unite with the others and you would do it. Now, I want to ask you two questions: How did you feel when you left the office two hours ago, that you would like to hit that man between the eyes for the disgrace he had brought to the Church?" "Yes, that is the way I did feel," I answered. "How do you feel now?" asked the president. I said, "I hope and pray that the old sinner can be forgiven." He answered, "You feel happy now, in comparison to the feeling you had two hours ago. Now you have been converted. If I had told you to vote you would never have had that impression of that conversion in your own heart. Don't forget that mercy and for-
314 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
giveness are just as much a part of the gospel as justice is." He told me never to forget that lesson and I never have. I thought I was standing out for the right, but sometimes it is better to surrender even the right, in mercy, than it is to stand out and demand the pound of flesh.
May the Lord bless the officers of this organization, one and all, from the General Board down to the least of these officers. May peace be upon them. May the sweet spirit of the Lord abide in the homes of all the Latter-day Saint sisters.
COUNSELOR LOUISE Y. ROBISON
We have had a wonderful conference, and I feel that everyone of us must be grateful to our Father in heaven for his Spirit that has been with us. It depends upon how much of this Spirit we carry into our homes, how well our lessons have been taught here. It is a beautiful thing for us to uphold the principles of the gospel. It is a beautiful thing for us to feel that we are not bringing disgrace upon the Church. About six weeks or two months ago, I had the privilege of attending a gathering of women where Sister Grant spoke and she was telling about her experience of having the privilege of meeting President Harding when he was here last summer, and she said, "I was very happy that I could meet President Harding and his party, because I felt that I represented the women of this Church. I am a representative woman." If each one of us could have the feeling in our hearts, that each could be a representative woman of this Church and state, what a wonderful record we would strive to make. I think most of us have read how much the state and cities and the people of Utah are doing in a public way to place the people of Utah and the state of Utah in good repute before the world; a great deal of money is being spent for this purpose, but I feel that much depends upon us in our homes here, if we are to be representative women of the Church and state, The success of this campaign for good Utah before the people depends in a measure upon how we represent our Church and State. In traveling up and down this country as a representative of the Relief Society, I have found many of the richest, sweetest spirits that ever lived, and I have been proud to feel that they were representative women of the Church. But on the other hand we have found people who have brought disgrace, in their small way, upon the Church. When tourists are passing through our communities, I wonder if we always try to make them feel that we are Christian people, or do we make them feel that we have
RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE MINUTES 315
the love of money in our hearts so much that we will try to take advantage of every little opportunity. Two years ago I was at Duchesne at a convention and the sister who entertained me in her home lived close to the meeting house. Right by the side of the meetinghouse was a nice, grassy square, and campers were there. On the Saturday night of our convention, just as we were having our evening meal, a woman came to the door to ask if she could buy a loaf of bread. My hostess said, "I have not baked yet, but I have bread in the oven. How many are there in your party?" The woman answered that there were her husband and herself. My hostess handed her a plate of hot biscuits, saying, "We have enough biscuits for you and you are welcome to them." The woman offered to pay but this was refused by the lady of the house. The woman came back that night and said, "I have traveled across the continent, and I want you to know that I have not had such treatment before. This is my first stop in Utah." That was a very small thing but it was genuine hospitality and it made an impression on this traveler. The woman came in the next morning, and visited with us, and wished that she could come to our conference. I explained to her about the Relief Society and its work, She was greatly interested in our activities. Everyone we meet is interested in people who are in the services of the people. Then I mentioned the missionaries and she said, "I hope to meet your missionaries sometime in the field."
Sister Knight said while she and Sisters Lyman and Fox were in Washington last summer that they were being entertained and driven out to some points of interest, and when the hostess learned that they were from Utah, she said, "Come and ride in my car; I was entertained so royally when I was in Utah that I feel honored now to entertain Utah women." This is what is meant by being representative women of Utah, because we have always had the name of being hospitable. But there are other things that we meet when we are traveling. When you go to a home in the country and ask for milk or bread, and you are told that milk is 15¢ a quart (5c more than is charged in Salt Lake, although the streets are full of cows) and that bread is 20c a loaf, you wonder what is the matter and you carry away a bad impression of that community. I remember one time I was traveling through Afton, Wyoming, and I took a milk bottle into a house and had it filled. I offered the woman a dime and she said that it wasn't worth 10c to anybody. I always feel friendly toward Afton, Wyoming. Some of my people were held up there once on account of a mud slide, and they think it is a miserable place, but nobody can make me think that.
If we can be hospitable in our homes and
316 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
in our communities, and live up to the standards and ideals of the Church and the state, we can truly be called representative women. May we realize what a blessed privilege it is to be representative women in Zion, and may we bring honor to our Church and state, and honor to ourselves.
BISHOP JOHN WELLS
I am here representing Bishop Charles W. Nibley, the presiding bishop of the Church. He had another important engagement and asked me to substitute for him. I feel I am a poor substitute for that gifted man, but nevertheless, as a member of the Bishopric, I am glad to be here this afternoon to address this great body of women so closely connected with all of the bishoprics of the Church. I have been very much interested this afternoon in these proceedings, in the dignified and excellent program, and in the remarks of President Grant and others who have spoken.
One of President Grant's remarks brought this thought to me: What would be the progress of this Church today if the Relief Societies had not been founded? Where would we be? There would not be the close sympathy and friendship, the thoughtfulness and care for the poor, nor the sweet, mutual helpfulness that has grown up into the family life of the Latter-day Saints. No one can ever measure by figures or facts the great work that has been accomplished by this organization.
The Presiding Bishopric feel it an honor to work with the Relief Society, and wish to help forward the work all we possibly can. Through weekly meetings, and other meetings as occasions arise, between the Presiding Bishopric and the Relief Society executive committee we outline plans and discuss problems. The aim and purpose of this is that the Relief Societies may labor in harmony with the Priesthood and the bishops, who are proud of the privilege and opportunity of helping in this great work.
I was very much impressed, in looking at the records of the Church which have just been completed, to find that the death rate of this Church has fallen down to 7.2 per thousand. Naturally, I looked for the cause. The old age group that died of natural causes had not fallen off, and all down the line I went until I came to children at five years of age, and then children one month, from one month to one year, and from one year to two. There has been a decrease in the death rate among these children and while there has been a normal growth of the birth rate in the Church, all the figures which showed the falling off in the death rate were among children under five years of age. It means that 500 children, who according to the normal death
RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE MINUTES 317
rate would have died, are living today, because of better methods of care, of feeding, and better care at birth. I am proud of the labors of this great body of women who understand normal conditions of sanitation and health, and if you have done no more than save one child you have done well, for no mathematician can give you the potential value of that one child. Our hearts rejoice that five hundred children have been saved during the last year.
A movement has been suggested which has the hearty approval of Bishop Nibley, that in certain stakes of Zion there might be employed and financed possibly by the Church, gifted workers who will help the community to better itself, both in the care of human beings which is our great duty, and in all other methods and ways. We are hoping this thought will develop so that in many stakes of Zion gifted, earnest women, trained in the best methods of social service, will be able to give help to you. It is a wonderful work to care for the poor, the sick, and the feeble, and to improve conditions of life, and to work for the conservation of human life, and no effort is too great for that.
As a Presiding Bishopric, we are very much in favor of the improved methods of caring for the poor. We agree heartily with the General Board and its officers that about the worst thing we can do is to dole out money. We are urging our bishoprics everywhere to discontinue that habit, and to co-operate with the Relief Society presidents, and form an organization for the purpose of following the best methods of caring for the poor. We are glad to see this constructive work develop. We also are glad to see that the old habit is still in force of the visiting teachers of the Relief Society going to the homes. There is something far more valuable in the visit than in the collecting of a few cents. The value of the visits of these thousands of teachers into the homes of the Latter-day Saints, carrying comfort and cheer and helpfulness, carrying advice and counsel and sympathy, can never be measured. I only wish that out of the 87,000 families in this Church, instead of 55,973 persons being enrolled in the Relief Societies, there were 87,000. All the people in my opinion need the lessons outlined in the Relief Society Magazine, especially our young mothers and young married people. There is something to be done to encourage this bright, intelligent class of young women to enroll in the Relief Society and partake of these lessons pertaining to the fundamentals of life and religion.
A great work you are doing—a wonderful work; no one appreciates it more than the Presiding Bishopric. I pray that the Lord may bless you with the spirit of it, and spur you on to higher ideals, and give you the intelligence to apply the very best methods to carry out your work.
318 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
STAKE PRESIDENTS' MEETING
Monday morning, April 7, the stake and mission presidents of the Relief Society met at Relief Society headquarters to receive special instructions and to bear testimony. After instructions by President Williams, reports were given and testimonies borne by Mrs. Jane W. Bates, President Alberta stake; Mrs. Fanny C. Harper, President of Juarez stake; and Mrs. Florence M. Knight, President of the Relief Societies of the Western States mission.
Questions which had been handed in during the conference were answered by President Williams as follows:
Steel Granaries: In all probability there will be no use for the steel granaries in the future, at least for some time to come. And therefore ward presidents of Societies that own such granaries should consult with their bishops regarding the advisability of selling them. The stake and ward officers are conversant with local conditions, and they can best decide what course to follow with regard to disposing of granaries.
Conferences and Conventions: In many of the stakes, group conventions are held annually, but wherever desired, an additional stake conference may be held. Visitors from the General Board will be in attendance at all group conventions and at the one official Relief Society conference held each year in those stakes where group conventions are not held. A ward Relief Society conference should be held every year in every ward.
General Conference Delegates: Should the stake president attend general Relief Society conference each time, or should she give each of her counselors a turn to represent the stake Relief Society at the conference? The president of the organization should attend the official (April) conference. It is a good thing to divide honors and privileges with the counselors and secretary; but the president, who is at the head of the stake organization, should, if possible, attend the official conference. Some presidents give each of the counselors and the secretary a turn in attending conference, and come themselves, as well. The General Board is always glad to see as many of the stake officers in attendance as is possible.
Summer Meetings: For many years the Relief Society has suggested that where the stakes wish to do so, they may adjourn their meetings during July and August, but this is not obligatory. Requests have come to the general office for programs for summer work, and the General Board has had under advisement the matter of preparing such programs, but it has been decided that
RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE MINUTES 319
it would be best for the stakes themselves to plan their own summer work, so that each might follow whatever plan is felt will be of the most benefit in the locality.
Preparing Bodies for Burial: Some have asked if the ward teachers should assist in laying out the dead, or should the president do all that work. This matter is entirely optional with the wards. A president who has so many duties to perform should not be expected to do all this work.
Questions from Wards: All letters to the General Office from wards, containing questions about local work, are referred to the stake president of the locality for answer and instruction.
Maternity Homes: The General Board does not feel that it can give any specific advice in regard to maternity homes and their management from the fact that we might give instructions which we would think perfectly suitable, but which could not be carried out at all in your particular districts. But no matter where a maternity home might be established, a hospital-registered nurse should be in charge of the work, under the direction of the stake or ward president, who would be the direct head.
Visits to Wards by Stake Officers: The announcement made in the officers' meeting of the conference that stake officers should not visit wards too frequently, has caused some question as to just how often stake officers should visit wards. In districts where the wards are scattered, we are glad if it is possible for the stake officers to visit the wards at least once a year, and twice if possible. Some stake presidents are endeavoring to visit the wards twice a month. Some letters which we have received have indicated that this is considered too often. Wherever possible, a very ideal condition would be to visit the wards once a month. Visit a ward one month on the day when the theology and testimony meeting is held, the next month on the work and business meeting day, and so on. You will thus be able to find through these visits if there are any weaknesses in the work, It is not advisable for the whole board to visit one ward in a body; divide the board members and assign them to various wards to visit on a given day. We do not desire to dictate to you in this regard. This is only suggestive. The stake presidents must use their own judgment.
Attendance Records: Some stakes reported that in the summer months the members of the Society move away from the settlements to ranches, and are therefore unable to attend Relief
320 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
Society meetings, which makes a poor attendance record. President Williams explained that while the Relief Society is interested in a high attendance record, still we emphasize membership more than attendance. Many members of the Relief Society are homebound or bedridden and unable ever to attend the meetings; many women with small children are unable for long periods of time to attend meetings; but still they and we value their membership in the Relief Society, and desire to have them enrolled.
Legitimate Excuses: The reasons for marking absentees excused from Relief Society meetings have been confined to sickness and death. This ruling has been made to avoid having every absentee marked excused, whether she has good reasons or not for her absence. There are, of course, other good reasons for people to absent themselves from the meetings, but these reasons are hard to define; therefore, in the General Board, and in the stakes and wards, sickness or death should be the only instances for marking excused on the roll. Other absences should be merely marked absent.
Officers Should be Magazine Subscribers: The annual report shows that many Relief Society officers and teachers are not subscribers to the Relief Society Magazine. It is felt that any woman who is an officer or teacher in the Relief Society should feel the necessity of having the Magazine, and especially since the Magazine contains all the lessons, and the teachers' topics. Stake workers were urged to see that all stake and ward officers and teachers become subscribers. The price of the Magazine is only $1 and we are endeavoring to keep this price. Wards should be encouraged to bind the Magazines for the local Relief Society library, so that back numbers will always be available for reference. It is also a good thing for stake boards to have a set of the bound volumes of the Magazine for reference.
Funds: It is not the work of the Relief Society to raise funds for missionaries, although in some wards the bishops still seem to expect this. The Presiding Bishopric have emphasized the point that the raising of missionary funds is an activity for the Priesthood, and is not the work of the Relief Society. All Relief Society funds should be carefully guarded and used for the purpose for which they were donated. The Presiding Bishopric have ruled that the funds should not be taken arbitrarily from any Relief Society. The Presiding Bishopric have sent letters out to every bishop of the Church, requesting them to see that the Relief Society wheat money is sent to the Presiding Bishop's Office to go into the wheat trust fund. Through the importun-
RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE MINUTES 321
ing of some bishops and stake presidents, the Relief Societies have been asked to turn over their wheat funds. It is the duty of Relief Society stake presidents to keep their stake presidents advised of the fact that the wheat money is a sacred trust fund, that it is not to be used for any other purpose, except as is prescribed by the General Board and General Authorities, and that it is expected that where this money has been borrowed that it will all be returned to the Relief Societies, and placed in the trust fund which is under the jurisdiction of the Presiding Bishop's Office.
Relief Society Halls: The Presiding Bishop's Office has advised that separate Relief Society ward halls be not built. Where new chapels are being erected, quarters should be provided therein for the Relief Society. It is felt that it is a waste of money to build a hall which would be unoccupied except one afternoon a week, and that it is far more preferable that all auxiliary organizations be housed in the ward chapel. When Relief Societies are assigned a room in a ward chapel, however, they should not be contented with the darkest room in the basement.
Burial Clothes: Where burial clothes are to be sold there should be enough profit on the suits so that those doing the sewing can be paid. Where people are unable to pay for the sewing, the work should be donated. In providing clothing for the community, you are called on to provide clothing for those who can pay as well as for those who cannot pay. People who can afford to pay for other sewing, should not expect to have sewing done on burial clothing for nothing.
Quinquennial Meeting—International Council of Women: In May 1925 a great international congress of women will be held in Washington, D. C., and all women who are members of any of the organizations that are affiliated with the National Council will be expected to help a little in defraying the expenses of the convention. As Mrs. Lyman stated in the conference, your president has been appointed by Mrs. Moore, who is president of the National Council, to act as chairman for the state of Utah. There are about fifteen of the affiliated organizations represented in Salt Lake City, and in meetings with them we have found that in some of the cities of the state, there are a number of branches of the various organizations. There are the Club women, Women's Relief Corps, Women of the G. A. R., of the Service Star Legion, Y. W. C. A., etc. Representatives of these organizations were called together and chose as vice-chairman, Mrs. E. O. Wattis, president of the State Federation of Women's Clubs. A
322 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
member was chosen from each of the following organizations to act on the executive committee: Y. L. M. I. A., Y. W. C. A., Women's Relief Corps. Mrs. Lyman was appointed secretary of the committee. I am expected to appoint county chairmen, who, when the call comes, will make it their business to organize the counties, and assist in securing a fund to make up the quota for the state of Utah. We do not know yet how much that will be.
Now, we want to say to you stake presidents, that in all probability we will not appoint you as county chairmen, but we know that you will be loyal and that it will be your pleasure to do all you can to assist your counties in helping Utah to make the proper showing; and whoever we appoint should receive your co-operation and assistance. The county chairmen will of course be women who belong to one or another of the affiliated organizations of the Council. Our Relief Society women from other states will in all probability be approached by their state chairmen to give assistance, and we trust that all members of the Relief Society will take pride in contributing to this cause.
Note: Addresses by Dr. J. Wallace, "Goitre," Miss Charlotte Dancy, "Care of Expectant Mother," and Mrs. Amy Brown Lyman, "National and International Councils of Women." will appear in the July issue of the Magazine.
Teachers' Topic for August
Conservation of Health
"And I the Lord gave unto them a promise, that the destroying angel shall pass by them, as the children of Israel, and not slay them."
A. Personal hygiene—cleanliness, fresh air, proper food, elimination. B. Read and discuss the Word of Wisdom. Doc. And Cov. Section 89.
EDITORIAL
Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah
Motto—Charity Never Faileth
THE GENERAL BOARD
MRS. CLARISSA SMITH WILLIAMS President MRS. JENNIE BRIMHALL KNIGHT First Counselor MRS. LOUISE YATES ROBISON Second Counselor MRS. AMY BROWN LYMAN General Secretary and Treasurer
Mrs. Emma A. Empey Mrs. Lotta Paul Baxter Mrs. Ethel Reynolds Smith Mrs. Jeanette A. Hyde Mrs. Julia A. Child Mrs. Barbara Howell Richards Miss Sarah M. McLelland Mrs. Cora L. Bennion Mrs. Rosannah C. Irvine Mrs. Annie Wells Cannon Mrs. Julia A. F. Lund Miss Alice Louise Reynolds Mrs. Lalene. H. Hart Mrs. Amy Whipple Evans Mrs. Lizzie Thomas Edward, Music Director Miss Edna Coray, Organist
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
Editor CLARISSA SMITH WILLIAMS Associate Editor ALICE LOUISE REYNOLDS Business Manager JEANETTE A. HYDE Assistant Manager AMY BROWN LYMAN
Room 29, Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah
Vol. XI JUNE, 1924 No. 6
President Williams' Birthday
April 21 marked the anniversary of President Williams' birth. The Magazine extends to her hearty felicitations, and trusts that there will be many returns of her birthday anniversary.
THE HOTEL UTAH BANQUET
The banquet and reception tendered by the stake and mission presidents to the members of the General Board on the evening of April 3, 1924, proved satisfactory and enjoyable in every respect. Chairman, Myrtle B. Shurtliff, president of Liberty stake, and the committee of Salt Lake City stake presidents that worked with her, must be highly gratified at the results of their far-seeing and capable planning. The members of the General Board stood in line on the Mezzanine floor of the Hotel Utah from 7:15 p. M. until the hour of the banquet. Each member received from the committee, a beautiful bouquet of flowers that, so greatly enhanced her appearance that a member of a stake Board, who saw them pass into the banquet room remarked that it looked like a bridal procession. The tables were lavishly decorated with gold and white flowers, carrying out the Relief Society colors. The place cards, particularly attractive, were small white cards bearing on their face, in gold letters, not only the name of the individual designed to occupy the place, but a monogram of the National Women's
324 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
Relief Society, and under it the Relief Society motto, Charity Never Faileth; also the date, Hotel Utah, April 3, 1924. The printed programs are in keeping with the place cards. The outside cover bears these words, "National Women's Relief Society, Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, Banquet and Reception, Complimentary to the Officers and Members of the General Board, given by the Relief Society Stake and Mission Presidents, Hotel Utah, Salt Lake City, Thursday, April Third, Nineteen Hundred Twenty-four." On the first page is a photograph of President Clarissa Smith Williams. This is followed by a well chosen menu. On the opposite side is the program of music and toasts. The next page contains the names of officers and members of the General Board and names of the committee on arrangements consisting of the presidents of Liberty, Granite, Ensign, Salt Lake, and Pioneer stakes. The page following bears the names of stake presidents, ninety in number, and the last page contains the names of the sixteen mission presidents.
The musical features of the program were highly attractive. The Ladies Quartette from the University of Utah, in its select numbers, was very much appreciated, the quality and the blending of the voices being particularly pleasing. The artistic rendition of the numbers of Miss Margaret Summerhays will last in the memory of those who listened to her, for a long time. Mrs. Elsie B. Alder, in her new role as toastmistress, was pleasing and entertaining in her introductions, interspersed as they were with snatches of humor, sometimes couched in verse and sometimes in story. Mrs. Laura J. Adamson, president of Blaine stake, responded to the toast. Our President; Mrs. Katherine Romney Stewart, president of Los Angeles stake, The General Board; Mrs. Evelyn Lyman, president of Union stake, Stakes and Mistakes; and Mrs. Amy Brown Lyman, A Vision of the Future. We had hoped to include the toasts in this issue of the Magazine, but we are not in possession of a sufficient number at this writing to do so. Grace was offered by Counselor Louise Y, Robison, and President Clarissa Smith Williams made a response after the toast, Our President. Counselor Jennie B. Knight's response followed the toast on behalf of the General Board. Both President Williams and Counselor Jennie B. Knight expressed appreciation for the entertainment of the evening, so effective in the perfection of its details, and so kindly provided by the stake and mission presidents of the Relief Society.
My Father
I see my father bent and worn, With slow and feeble step; I note the furrows on his brow, The lack of one-time pep.
His shaky hands can no more grasp The duties of this life; No more those self-same hands control Or stem the storm and strife.
His weakened eyes and weary face Proclaim a tired soul; Resigned to all the aches and woes If he can reach the goal.
His drooping posture plainly shows The burdens borne for years; His every move seems somewhat sad For he no longer hears—
The voice of little children dear, Who welcomed his return From toil and labor freely done; For them his heart does yearn. He prays their steps may go aright, Their days be filled with grace; That no regrets, from sin, will find In them a resting place. Just what has brought about this change? Can I o'erlook the cause? I know full well, from long years back, With little rest or pause— He's labored well from morn till night, With faithful, willing heart; Supplying needs of those he loves; Performing his true part. And now while I am young and strong, For duty, yes and love, May I receive the aid I need From Father up above— To help increase the faith and hope — That in my father dwells That he may reap the good he's done, Until his poor heart swells. May I but spare the time and place— And count it blessings rare To minister to all his needs; Of God's command beware— To honor parents, that my days May longer be below, To serve and give to them while here, And truer love bestow. —Elsie E. Barrett.  You would go across the continent for such an educational feast as this. And here you have it—right at your door! ANATIONAL Summer School Courses and lectures by men of world renown. College credit, with special classes for certification of teachers in service or training. "AMERICA'S GREATEST SUMMER FACULTY" Special faculty includes: Allee, Chicago; Angell, Yale; Blackwelder, Stanford; Branson, N. Carolina; Car- ' ruth, Stanford; Cowles, Chicago; Franzen, California; Knappen, U. Of Kansas; Merk, Harvard; McClain, Detroits McCollum, Johns Hopkins; Reed, Ohio State U.; Shearer, Long Beach; Thorndike, Columbia; Turner, Harvard; Wood, Columbia. Special lecturers: Wm. G. Anderson, Liberty Hyde Bailey, David. Starr Jordan, Shailer Matthews, E. A. Steiner, A. E. Winship and John Adams of London U. Unique recreation features and excursions to world-famed scenic places. (Special faculty and lecturers to serve through entire first 6 weeks.) 1st term: June 9 to July 18. 2nd term: July 21 to Aug. 29. Register June 6 or 7. Fee $25 for 6 or 12 weeks. Write for Catalog. Utah Agricultural College Logan Utah — There is no Substitute for Electric Cooking Call in and see our electric ranges. Types and prices to please everybody. Utah Power & Light Co. Efficient Public Service {— ~ Compare the Pages of Che Desrret News with those of any other paper. Notice that while the paper is clean and fit for any child to read - it is also interesting and informative in the highest sense—And you get "TODAY'S NEWS TODAY" Individual Sacrament Sets Now in Stock BEST IN THE MARKET WILL LAST A LIFE TIME 36 GLASSES IN EACH TRAY RECOMMENDED BY PATRONS. REFERENCES FURNISHED Made especially for L. D. S. Churches. And successfully used in Utah and_Intermountain region, also in all Missions in the United States, Europe, and Pacific Islands. Basic metal, Nickel Silver. Heavily plated with Solid Silver. SIMPLE, SANITARY, DURABLE Satisfaction guaranteed. Inquiries cheerfully answered THE LATEST ACKNOWLEDGMENT Bishop's Office, Bern, Idaho, May 2, 1921. "I am in. Receipt of the Individual Sacrament Set, consisting of four trays and the proper number of glasses. "Everything arrived in good condition. We are very pleased with it. I take this occasion to thank you for your kindness.". BUREAU OF INFORMATION | Temple Block Salt Lake City . Glazier and Taylor HOSIERY COMPANY 33 EAST BROADWAY A Store Dealing in Quality Hesiery and Underwear Exclusively Heavy Silk Full-Fashioned, all colors A wonderful hose for wear Per Pair $2.00 Box of Three Pairs 5.78 Silk Semi-Fashioned, all colors, beautiful and durable. Per Pair. $1.50 Box of Three Pair.......$4.25 Silk with Extra Stretch Elastic Top, the Comfort Stocking Per Pair. $1.65 Box of three pairs…$4.75 Pure Silk, Semi-Fashioned, very durable All Colors Per Pair. 1.65 Box of Three Pairs 3.00 MAIL ORDERS PREPAID  Book of Poems "The Beautiful Valley of Utah" By Mrs. J. Long, — 50c per copy. Eureka, Utah, Box 129. When ordering mention Relief Society Magazine. 100 Sheets of Fine Writing Paper 100 Regular Size Envelopes $1.50 Delivered postpaid to your home. Printed with your name and address in fine blue plate Gothic. (Not more than 3 lines). Send Money with order. Write plainly. Universal Stationery Supply Co. 315—24th Street OGDEN, UTAH To Our Magazine Subscribers We call your attention to the very high class firms who advertise in the Magazine, and ask, whenever possible, to give them your loyal support and patronage. Also kindly mention having read their advertisement in the Magazine. We hope by your assistance to prove our value as a medium through which to advertise. Magazine Management A Dish of Delight When the family tires of the regular routine—surprise them by serving Pierce's Pork and Beans. Tender, golden beans in steaming hot, savory tomato sauce made from Utah's chvicest tomatoes—no wonder this delicious dish always "scores a hit." Eight Other Quality Products Sanitorily Packed by The Utah Canning Company Ogden since 1888 To the Agents and Friends of the Magazine who are Taking Subscriptions: It was unanimously decided at the October Conference by the - officers and members present rather than raise the price of the magazine, we would ask the agents and friends for the present to secure subscriptions without the customary 10 per cent discount. We call your attention to the fact that many of the subscriptions received so far have had the percentage deducted, which is not in accordance with the general understanding of the Magazine management and officers present at the conference. Will you kindly give this matter your attention and give these facts as wide publicity as possible in order that the subscriptions which we receive hereafter, will be accompanied with the full amount of the' price of the magazine, which is $1.00. "Sincerely, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. BLUE Pine Olive oil. Blue pine Olive Oil is made from the finest ripe French olives. Its absolute purity and its richness in food values make it the ideal product for salads and dressings. It comes from the container fresh and sweet, with all the rich olive flavor. Once you try Blue Pine Olive Oil, you will never wish to use any other brand. Widely recommended for medicinal purposes and other highly exacting uses. Other BLUE PINE products. Snowcroft Product Ideally good in salads and dressings. VOL. XI JULY, 1924 NO. 7 CONTENTS Unveiling of President Williams' Portrait — Frontispiece Unveiling of President Williams' Portrait Alice Louise Reynolds 329 What the Pioneers Ate Jean Cox 330 Rosalia Cox Driggs Editorials—A Pioneer's Contribution to a Johns Hopkins Specialist 2 The Pioneers Builded Better than they Knew: The Eighteenth Amendment Judge Florence Allen. 341 Goitre.. Dr. J. Wallace 345 Care of the Expectant Mother........... A Charlotte Dancey 348 National and International Councils of Women Amy Brown Lyman 352 Relief Society Nurses  Notes from the Field Amy Brown Lyman 362 Guide Lessons for September Teachers' Topic for September. Organ of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints Room 20 Bishop's Bldg. Salt Lake City, Utah $1.00 a Year—Single Copy, 10c Canada and Foreign, $1.25 a Year—l5c Single Copy Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office. Salt Lake City, Utah —  Hot chocolate or cocoa is a drink which can be served appropriately on many occasions. CARNATION COCOA 4 tsp. Cocoa, 6 tsp, sugar, 3 cups boiling water, 1 cup Carnation Milk, 1/2 tsp. Salt. Mix cocoa and sugar in a cup. Have water boiling. Heat cocoa pot by allowing hot water to stand in it for a few minutes. Heat Carnation Milk by standing cup of Carnation Milk in basin of hot water for five minutes or more. Pour a little boiling water into cup of cocoa and sugar to dissolve them. Pour into cocoa pot, add remainder of water, boiling hot, then the hot Carnation Milk and salt. Serve at once. Makes four cups. After filling cups add two tablespoonfuls of whipped Carnation Milk, or drop a marshmallow into each cup. CARNATION'S NEW WHIPPING RECIPE — Dissolve the gelatine in a tablespocnful of cold Carnation; melt in the re maining milk which should be at the boiling point. Cool by placing in a bowl surrounded by cracked ice. When cold whip until stiff, It may be sweetened and flavored to taste. This recipe makes one pint of whipped Carnation which will stand up for many hours, 1 cup Carnation, 1/4 tsp. gelatine. — a Temple and Burial Clothes Complete Suits For Men and Women Variety of Grades and Prices Prompt and Careful Attention to Mail—Telephone—Telegraph Orders Open Daily, 9 a.m.—5 p.m. General Board Relief Society 23 Bishop's Building Salt Lake City, Utah Phone Wasatch 3286 — Carnation Milk To Our Magazine Subscribers We call your attention to the very high class firms who advertise in the Magazine, and ask, whenever possible, to give them your loyal support and patronage. Also kindly mention having read_ their advertisement in the Magazine. We hope by your assistance to prove our value as a medium through which to advertise. Magazine Management iN. A Gift for Graduation W. M. McCONAHAY 'THE JEWELER 64So. Main- Phone Was. 182) Salt Lake City, Utah When Shopping Mention Relief Society Magazine Ladies of the Relief Society and Other Organizations Order your flowers from the. Ideal Floral Company Fresh Cut Flowers Every Morning 38 South Main Phone Wasatch 3414 | Night Phone Hyland 5303-W  The Doors of Opportunity Open When You Become a Trained Nurse Salt Lake County General Hospital Training School for nurses ig a registered school, and gives a thorough course in, Surgery, Medicine, Obstetrics, Pediatrics, Contagious Diseases and Tubereulosis. Girls from 18 to 35 years of age, with two years of high school or its equivalent desired to apply. Send for application card and catalog. 7 LAMINEX DOORS Wil not chvink, swell or warp MORRISON-MERRILL & CO. "The Lumbermen" MARK  TIMBER. ROCK PAPER. PRODUCTS FOR BUILDING PURPOSES RELIABILITY Every door carries replacement guarantee Standard sizes and styles carried in stock ~ 70 Main Street — IMPROVED L. D. S. GARMENTS The "Temple Brand" garments are handled only by leading dealers, if you cannot get just. What you want select it from this list and send order direct to us. We prepay postage to all parts of the United States. Samples submitted on request. No. 75 Med. Heavy Cotton. $2.50
No. 15 Extra Spe. Flat Weave 1.50 
No 3 Domestic Lisle 1.75 
No. 25 Double Back Lt. Wt. 1.85 
NEW STYLE WITH BUTTONS AND LONG OR SHORT SLEEVES
For Ladies: Style  Price:
No. 1 Flat Weave Cot..$.95. 
Super No. 2 Ribbed super cot 1.25: 
No, 815 Flat weave...................1.50 
No. 803 Ribbed Lt. Wte........... 1.65 
No. 850 Lisle Gause................ 2.50.
No. 862 Mere. Gause Lt. Wt... 2.75.
 For Men: Style: Price 
No. 903 Ribbed Lt. Wt.............$1.75 
No. 950 Lisle Lt. Wt................... 2.75 
No. 915 Flat Weave................ 1.75 
No. 925 Ribbed Med. Wt....... 2.00 
No. 975 Med. Heavy Cot......... 2.25 
No. 9175 Med. Half Wool...... 3.50 
 SAVE AGENT'S COMMISSION— BUY DIRECT FROM FACTORY Salt Lake Knitting Store ~ Salt Lake City, Utah In sending orders mention Magazine 4 < fr =~ Ask your dealer for Z. C. M. I. Factory Made Kiddies' Allovers DUTCH CUT They are the famous Mountaineer Brand in dark blue, light blue, striped and khaki Mothers—they are just what you need for the little tots—and the kiddies like them too Pioneer Mothers By Carrie Tanner The pioneer mothers! Oh, blest be that name, Now destined to honor, and glory, and fame, For the strength of their faith, their courage and love, To live for the truth as revealed from above. The stern, barren land of the mountainous West, By prophets foretold, was their haven of rest; Their journey's hard toil o'er swift rivers and plain To "This is the place," brought their well-deserved gain. The marvelous changes their faithful hands wrought, The solid foundations their labors have bought, Through trials that tested the depths of true heart, Proclaim, to their honor, how noble their part. They sang their loved anthems and songs full of cheer, As they labored for home and all it held dear, And when they knelt down in their sweet evening prayer, The spirit of peace and contentment was there. The widow, the orphan, the stranger they clad, The heart of the sick and the mourner made glad, Ah! Well may we reverence, and flowers entwine In mem'ry of those whose names: we' enshrine. And though there are graves where the green grasses grow, And tears of true love that will silently flow, We know those dear mothers now gone to their rest, In realms of great glory, with God, are they blest. UNVEILING OF PRESIDENT WILLIAMS' PORTRAIT THE Relief Society Magazine etl ey, 1924 ee Now 7 Unveiling of President Williams'. Portrait By Alice Louise Reynolds A pretty ceremony accompanied the unveiling of President Clarissa Smith Williams' portrait, Wednesday, April 30, 1924, at four o'clock, in the reception room of the General Board. All day long the beautiful new silk flag, first used at our recent conference, stood against the wall, apparently, concealing something. At four o'clock the members of the Board shifted their chairs, and presently Sister Williams' husband and her aged mother, Susan Smith, wife of President George A. Smith, entered the room, followed by a goodly representation of her family. Among them was an only granddaughter, little Josephine Darger. She stepped toward the flag, pulled a white ribbon, attached to one corner, and the portrait was revealed. Walking into the adjoining room and taking up a little green basket receptacle filled with Killarney roses, she brought them in and | placed them on a little stand beneath the picture. The roses° were selected by Mrs. Amy Whipple Evans, a member of the committee. Counselor Louise Y. Robison, chairman of the committee, made her report. This was followed by a tribute from Counselor Jennie B. Knight, and from the General Secretary, Mrs. Amy Brown Lyman, and from Emma A. Empey, Sarah McClellan, and Lotta Paul Baxter of the General Board. Honorable W. N. Williams, who has worked in conjunction with the committee, expressed his appreciation both for the quality of the portrait and the desire on the part of the Board that a picture of President Williams should be placed with the other presidents in the Board Room. It was a moment of real power and up-lift when the portrait came into view, revealing, as it does,-so much of dignity and womanly poise. Many who have seen the portrait feel that Lee Greene Richards, the artist, has never excelled in his portrait painting, the portrait of President Williams, What the Pioneers Ate A Letter to Dr. E. V. McCollum, Noted Nutrition Specialist, of Johns Hopkins University _ By Miss Jean Cox, State Supervisor of H ousehold Economics January 17, 1924. Dear Mr. McCollum:—While I think you realize how difficult it is to get any first hand information in pioneer food stories, [ hesitated whether to send this 1847 pioneer food history which I obtained from Mrs. Adelia Sidwell, one of the original pioneers, who was only six years old when she came to Utah. She is eightytwo years old now and was too feeble to answer the questions very specifically or tell much about disease. The most prevalent disease was what she called "Mountain Fever." - One thing she emphasized was the almost continuous hunger and desire for sweets and fats.. She said, "We were always hungry." The meat consumption 332  RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE ice berries, choke cherries, elder berries, and squaw berries from which they made. "lemonade." Red berries were dried and used in puddings in the winter. They seemed to be as hungry for acids as for sweets. The following is her version of three grains of corn: Her mother was looking over seeds in the spring and dropped three grains. This little girl picked up the three grains, parched them on the shovel, ate one, gave one to the younger brother, and divided the other one between them. She says she. Still remembers the taste of that parched corn. Perhaps the above indicates the development of a diet which seems to have met nutritional requirements more fully than the typical American diet of today. There was a generous use of milk and milk products. Not much meat was eaten. Root: vegetables and cabbage were used generously. In the spring they ate sego lily onions or bulbs (this is the State flower now); different kinds of greens were used. Water cress, pepper cress, and green onions were used early in the spring. Fruit raising was developed; wild berries gathered and dried were used quite abundantly. Sorghum molasses and honey were used quite generously. Whole grains were milled locally, and little was removed except the bran, until about 1880. Cracked wheat and grits varied the cornmeal mush. Mrs. Sidwell has always been an outdoor woman. This may also be of interest to you. In spite of the starvation period and interim of meager diet, Mrs. Sidwell is a large, finely developed woman who has had eight children, all of whom are living now. She usually played the leading part in home dramatics in Shakespearian productions. In fact, she could make the average college professor uncomfortable with her knowledge of Shakespeare, the Bible, and general history. She has written some bits of local history which, according to Professor Marshall at the University of Utah, have more literary merit than anything else written in the state. Although she is from my home town, except for one or two recent illnesses, I do not remember her being ill. Several of her grandchildren are very clever musicians.
Jean Cox.
January 29, 1924.
Dear Miss Cox:—It seemed very good indeed to hear from you again. I appreciate very much indeed your extremely interesting letter telling about Mrs. Sidwell's account of the manner in which the pioneers lived when they first went to Utah. I shall treasure your letter in a file devoted to communications of unusual interest which I occasionally receive from people who are familiar with interesting human experiences. I have accepted an invitation from President Peterson to spend the weeks from June 8 to July 18 at the Agricultural College at Logan. I trust that I may have an opportunity to see you again while I am in Utah.
Dr. E. V. McCollum.
ROSALIA COX DRIGGS
Rosalia Cox Driggs
On Washington's birthday, seventy-eight years ago, in the city of Nauvoo, Illinois, Rosalia Cox Driggs was born. That was during the fateful winter of 1846, during the very month, indeed, when the first band of Pioneers to Utah left Nauvoo, crossing the Mississippi river on the ice, to begin their long journey across the plains into the valleys of the mountains. A few months before the coming of this baby girl, Rosalia, her parents, Frederick Walter Cox and Emmeline Whiting Cox, had been driven from their peaceful home in the Morley settlement, situated a few miles away from Nauvoo. A mob had ridden into this pioneer village, ordered the inoffensive inhabitants to get out of their houses, and then burned the dwellings before their eyes. Father and Mother Cox, with their little family of two boys and two girls, sought temporary refuge in the city of Nauvoo, then crowded with thousands of other homeless victims of mob violence.
334 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
Under these soul-trying circumstances little Rosalia came into the world. Her mother had hardly recovered from the illness of childbirth when the family was obliged to follow the trail of the pioneering band and take up its march across the hard roads of Iowa towards the land of the setting sun. They left Nauvoo in May of that year, and managed to get as far as the settlement at Mount Pisgah, which had been established as a kind of relief station on the way. Here Father Cox built a cabin home, and set to work to get supplies and a better outfit for the farther march. It was another soul-testing winter that the family spent at Mount Pisgah. Father Cox with his brother Orville and others made several trips to Missouri to work for supplies to keep starvation from their doors. On returning home from one of these trips, they were caught in a blizzard, and becoming bewildered, all but perished in the snow. Only one match, which one of them had saved, stood between them and death. With it they finally managed to get a fire built, and the next day they reached home only to find that death had paid a cruel visit there. Little Louisa Cox, the eldest sister of baby Rosalia, had passed away. The mother lay in a delirium of illness. She did not even know that her child had been taken from her. The whole community was so stricken at the time, that there were hardly enough well ones to take care of the sick. Frederick Cox and his brother made a little coffin out of such rough lumber as they could saw by hand out of the timber they had. Into this they laid the little girl, tenderly, and then carrying their precious burden up the hill, the coffin suspended from a pole, whose ends rested on a shoulder of each, the two brothers buried Louisa in the rapidly growing cemetery at the top of Mount Pisgah. This was not to be the end of their tragic sorrow. A little while later Eliza, the other sister of Rosalia, also passed away. Then Grandfather and Grandmother Whiting, the parents of Emmeline Cox both died, and others of the family also later were laid on the hill beside them. The monument at Mount Pisgah erected in after years by those who had lost loved ones at this place of sorrow, has six names of members of the Cox and Whiting family on it. Spring brought promise of somewhat better days. After lingering long in the shadow of death, Emmeline Cox finally recovered sufficiently for the family to go on across the rolling prairies of Iowa into the valley of the Missouri. Here on Silver Creek, a branch of the Missouri, some twenty miles southeast of Council Bluffs, they again made a home. A group of relatives and friends built on this stream the Cutler settlement. Frederick Cox and Chauncey Whiting, Emmeline's brother, were chosen as
ROSALIA COX DRIGGS 335
counselors to Father Cutler, in the organization of the new branch of the Church. For several years things went on more peacefully and prosperously. Father Cox and his boys, Fred and Will, worked at his trade of chair-making. Every time they had a load of chairs ready they hitched up their ox team and went down into Missouri to trade their furniture to the Missourians for such supplies as bacon, flour, groceries, clothing, tools, and other commodities. Missouri, at that time, was more developed than Iowa, the latter having just been opened for settlement. For six years the family continued to live on Silver Creek. Little Rosalia meanwhile was developing into a romping, happy-hearted little girl. Her memories of those days, she kept to tell in after years, to her own little flock around their fireside. But the life on the velvety hills of Iowa was not to last long. A call came from the valleys of the mountains for those who had settled among the bluffs along the Missouri, to take up their march to the mountains. In 1852 the Cox family, leaving many of their relatives behind, loaded their household goods and supplies into their three covered wagons, each drawn by four or five yoke of oxen, and joined an emigrant train for the farther west. The story of their crossing the great plains is one of the treasured tales of the family. How interested were the children of Rosalia Driggs who would often sit in their happy home in the after years to hear her tell of her experiences in those days—of the sun that seemed to rise right out of the ground, and again set there, of the Indians who came begging for flour and sugar, of the great herds of buffalo and antelope, and of the wonders of the great mountains, when first they came within sight of them. Then the story of the birth of dear little Emily, out there on the old Platte river, their waiting but two days and then resuming the journey with a bed arranged as best they could in the wagon for the mother and babe. There was also the story of how little Rosalia, when they came to the Black Hills, began to pick up all of the pretty pebbles she could find and put them into the laden wagon. She had nearly a bushel of them stowed away before her father discovered them. It nearly broke her heart to have the pebbles thrown out, but her gentle father consoled her by saying, "You will find all the pretty stones you want, and more, my child, when you get to the valleys of the mountains." And after they had reached the valleys, they went directly to Manti, then the outpost town in the Sanpete valley. It was in this picturesque region that Chief Walker, with his brothers Arropine, and Ammon, and Ankawakets, and Sanpitch made their rendezvous. Father Cox was one of the men who helped greatly
336 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
to keep these warlike chieftains and their Ute followers on friendly terms with the whites. The Indians always found a welcome at the home of Father Cox, and in him a wise counselor. A host of rich girlhood memories filled the mind of Rosalia Cox connecting with these early days in Manti. It would take a volume of good size to repeat all of the stories she used to tell her children of her experiences with her father and mother, and brothers and sisters in and around the big old stone house Father Cox built for his family. A social center it became, with music and home dramatics, and the reading of good books. (She and Cousin Adelia sat up all one night to read Uncle Tom's Cabin). And there was spinning, weaving, and knitting, and other household duties always going on. It was a hive of happy industry permeated by love of one another and a love of God. Rosalia was a leading spirit in the home. Bright at her books, she was soon leading the others in her studies. Finally she was sent by her father at the work of teaching her little brothers and sisters. Then she was made a teacher in the village schools. Many a pioneer boy and girl was given his first schooling by this energetic pioneer girl. During the days just following the Civil War, when Frederick Cox was away on a mission to England, the Black Hawk War broke out. It was a tragic time that followed. The brothers of Rosalia and their friends were called into action; Sanpete county became a center of military activities. Other parts of the state sent men to help conquer the Ute chieftain who was raiding the frontier settlements, running off the settlers' stock and murdering those found unable to protect themselves. Among those who went into Sanpete with the military forces was Benjamin W. Driggs. He was then a major on the staff of General Pace. While encamped at Manti, he met Rosalia Cox, and a year afterwards, when the Indian war was brought to a close, they were married. It was in the city of Pleasant Grove that Benjamin and Rosalia made their first residence. Here for several years they lived, building together. To help out, while her husband was away on a mission in England, Rosalia again taught school. Later when the telegraph office was opened she became the operator, she having previously learned the telegrapher's art in old Manti. When her husband, returning from his mission, had opened a store, she assisted him in that work. This business of merchandising brought about another "move" to the town of West Jordan. A smelter had been opened near that place, and trade was brisk. Throughout the rest of her life until age compelled a cessation of her labors, Rosalia Cox Driggs was actively interested in different commercial enterprises, not for
ROSALIA COX DRIGGS 337
their own sake, but for the sake of helping her husband to gather the means with which to educate their boys and girls, and surround them with the uplifting things of life. Her home was a literary center. It was filled with good books. She was a great lover of reading. Every night she would gather her little ones and those of the neighbors about her and read to them poems and stories, "lending to the rhyme of the poet the beauty of her voice." She was active always in the recreational activities of the communities where she lived. As member of the home dramatic company of Pleasant Grove, she helped to radiate much choice entertainment to the people there, and other nearby pioneer communities. She was ever helping plan and give wholesome recreation for young and old. The young people especially flocked to her home to find good fun. In the later years of her life she became an active worker in the Relief Society, ministering to the needs of the poor and the sick. Only her own illness, which in these later years had held down her sweet-souled activities, has kept her from these labors of love. But not even illness could chain her spirit. Up until her right arm was stricken with paralysis, she was ever writing letters of sunshine and helpfulness to her children and grandchildren and her friends. Several of the recent years of her life she spent in the sunny land of California with her daughters, Mrs. Lucille Heller, and Mrs. Geneva Halverson. More recently she has made her home in American Fork, Utah, with her daughter, Mrs. Maude Christensen, and in Idaho Falls with her daughter, Mrs. Leonora Dowd. Besides these children, and two others, Clarice and Ralph, who died in infancy, she has three sons all actively engaged in education, Frank M. Driggs, Superintendent of the State School for the Deaf and Blind, Ogden; Howard R. Driggs, Professor of English Education, University of Utah, and New York University; and Burton W. Driggs, Superintendent of the State School for the Deaf, Devil's Lake, North Dakota. Her husband, Benjamin W. Driggs, passed away in October, 1913, at Ogden, Utah, where for several years they made their home. Mrs. Lucille Heller, her daughter, also passed away in California, in 1919. The life of Rosalia Cox Driggs has been an inspiration. She will live forever in the hearts of the thousands she has blessed. Out of an almost tragic babyhood, she was privileged to rise into a happy childhood, a radiant girlhood, to become a helpmeet, indeed, for her husband, a leading worker for the uplift of every community where she lived, and withal to crown her life with that most blessed of all womanly achievements—a saintly, self-sacrificing motherhood.
EDITORIAL 339
In the very nature of the case, that people who put their trust in Jehovah, and live the commandments of the Lord, shall build better than they know.
The Pioneers Builded Better than they Knew
It is related that Dr. Oliver Wendell Holmes remarked of his poem The Chambered Nautilus, "When I wrote that, I did better than I could." Always people who trust sincerely in the God of heaven, no matter what their line of endeavor may be, accepting Dr. Holmes' interpretation, do better than they can. Only a few days ago, Miss Rebecca West, the young British author, who recently visited our state, sat in the offices of the Relief Society, and looking at the Temple Block, expressed appreciation of the beauty of the temple architecture, and of the evidence seen in the building of that block, of the deep spiritual character of the people who have settled in these valleys. We are in the habit of saying that our gratitude is due the pioneers, because they laid a foundation upon which we may build. All that is true, but it is only half the truth, for they have erected also enduring monuments that, as time goes on, will become more beautiful and wonderful in the eyes of all who behold them.
The Eighteenth Amendment
At a recent session of the General Board, a resolution was passed favoring the enforcement of the Eighteenth Amendment and asking that a copy of this resolution be sent to the women's organizations in Washington, D. C., who are uniting for the protection of the Amendment and the enforcement of its provisions. Women in the United States took the initiative years ago in organizing the W. C. T. U. and in supporting other organizations that have been and are in sympathy with prohibition. There is no doubt that at present the wet forces are rallying all their strength and would be very happy if they could alter the law or failing in that, destroy its effectiveness. These people have always been the foes of women's interests. Women and children have always been the victims of the misery that follows in the wake of drunkenness; consequently, it is only natural that they should be aroused, to the fullest extent, at any movement that purposes interfering with the present status, in relation to prohibition. The greatest embarrassment in this matter, as in many others, is felt because some people who would naturally be ex-
340 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
pected to be using all their strength to support the amendment, appear to have broken down and have joined the ranks of those who are clamoring for a change in the law. The Relief Society, whose conviction and practice is in accord with total abstinence, wishes to condemn any attempt to modify the Eighteenth Amendment, and to give full and unqualified support to it. As this editorial goes to press, we are on the very eve of the meeting of both our national political conventions. The present indication is that there will be a greater number of women participating as delegates in these conventions than ever before. We trust that if any attempt is made to alter prevailing conditions, that the women will resist it to the fullness of their power, and that no woman will so far forget the dignity of her position as the mother and guardian of humanity, as to allow her influence and vote in any way to support those who would wish for a change in this law. Most satisfactory evidence of woman's force in this matter is to be found in some statements appearing in the issue of May 24, of the Literary Digest, which we quote: "If Prohibition were to be submitted to a national referendum, who doubts that women would appear at the polls in equal number with the men? And who, incidentally, doubts as to which side would get these votes?" "Woman's Suffrage must be credited with keeping Prohibition a permanent fixture here. The Anti-Saloon League leaders say that once the women voters believe a candidate for a law-enforcing office to be crooked or unquestionably wet, they may be depended upon to defeat him. Not only this. Evil-doers in Oregon have it in the back of their heads that women do not like evil doings, and that these women have a ballot. In this way the women voters of this state are like a standing army, that, though it may never be called out, is its own reason for not being called out."
Judge Florence Allen
Two American women, both engaged in administering the laws of the United States, are prominent in the public eye, at the present time. The one is Judge Florence Allen of the Supreme Court of the state of Ohio, the other is Mrs. Mabel Walker Willebrandt, Assistant Attorney General. Judge Florence Allen was born in Salt Lake City, Utah, her mother's home being, at present, in Salt Lake City. She is the third daughter of a family consisting of four daughters and one son,—all gifted. Her father, Clarence E. Allen was, as a young man, on the faculty of Western Reserve University, Ohio, where he taught Latin and Greek. He came to Utah because of failing health. From his adopted state he was sent to the House of Representatives in the Congress of the United States. Her mother's name is Corrine Tuckerman. She was the daughter of Jacob Tuckerman of Ohio, who was the head of Farmers
342 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
College, Ohio. Mrs. Allen was educated at Mt. Holyoke and at Smith College. She has the distinction of being the first woman to apply for admission to Smith College. Judge Allen's eldest sister, Mrs. Esther A. Gaw, is assistant dean at Mills College in California, and is at present lecturing on the psychology of Music. Her second sister, Helen Allen Shockey, lives in Nevada, and is one of the most gifted speakers to be found among women in the United States. Florence is the third daughter, and has the distinction of being the first woman in all the world to serve as Judge in a Supreme Court. The fourth sister, Mrs. Elizabeth Sloan, resides in San Diego, California. There is one brother whose name is John, now on a farm in Ohio. Florence Allen was born March 23, 1885, in Salt Lake City, in an adobe house located on Third South, and Third East, the present site of the Y. W. C. A. Building. As a child she attended the Hammond Hall, a private school belonging to the New West system. Her mother states that nothing has been more characteristic of her throughout her life than her great desire to learn, Before she went to school she insisted on her sister Helen, who was slightly older than she, teaching her everything she knew, and when her father began tutoring the two eldest daughters in Latin and Greek, she sat up at the table with them and astonished everybody by keeping up with them. When she entered, she was ready for the third grade, chiefly because she had absorbed so much information from other members of the family. She left Hammond Hall at thirteen, and devoted herself to music, Miss Grace Flanders being her teacher. At sixteen, she went east and entered Western Reserve University, where she won the Phi Beta Kappa scholarship. She was editor of the College Magazine while at Western Reserve. After concluding her work, she went to Berlin to study music, and while there was assistant to Arthur Abell, then editor of the Musical Courier. Her ambition was to become a recognized lecturer on music, but she found that there was not much of a demand for her work in this country. So she turned music critic, and for some time served as musical editor of The Cleveland Plain Dealer, giving lectures on music whenever requested. In the meantime, she studied in Western Reserve University, in due course of time taking her M. A. from that institution. By this time she had made up her mind that she wished to study law, and for that reason entered the University of Chicago. While there Miss Frances Keller, the immigration expert, became interested in her, and induced her to go to New York to assist her with her work. She consented, and took up her law work in the University of New York. She assisted herself financially while in New York
JUDGE FLORENCE ALLEN 343
by giving musical lectures. While there she chummed with Miss Bertha Miller, who is now the reader for McCalls' Magazine. After being graduated from the New York Law School, she went back to Cleveland to practice law. She located and announced herself as a practicing lawyer. At this particular time she states she was frightened to death lest anyone might come to seek her services. She practiced three or four years and did exceedingly well. She has something of a genius for making friends, and women who had need of legal work, took pains to seek her out, and give her the opportunity to do their work. Miss Allen says she has had extraordinary luck in her friends. Her first service in the realm of law, apart from that of practicing attorney, was that of Assistant County Prosecutor, of Cuyahoga county. Later she was elected Judge of the Court of Common Pleas of Cuyahoga county, where she was eminently successful. On the 20th day of April, 1922, we heard a woman before the National Convention of the League of Women Voters, from the state of Ohio, say that Judge Allen had been most successful in a court where the work was regarded by all who knew the situation as exceedingly hard. She has been particularly successful in breaking up gangs of boys who were looked upon as incorrigibles. This woman further said, "Florence Allen will be elected to the Supreme Court of Ohio next fall; the women of Ohio say so, irrespective of political affiliations." Miss Allen is independent in her politics, and ran on an independent ticket. She had 43,000 signatures to the petition presented that made it possible for her to run for the election. The election occurred on the 7th of November, last. Miss Allen had two opponents in the contest, but came through with a very large majority. Her mother, from whom most of this information is obtained, says she likes the practice of law very much. She is very independent in her character, and is quite indifferent to what people say and think about her. "She is not," says her mother, "as good a speaker as her sister Helen," and we wish to state that, in our judgment, her mother is quite correct in this statement. Since having this interview, we have had the pleasure of listening to Judge Allen speak, and we wish to say that she is not as attractive a speaker as her sister Helen, to whom public speaking is a gift. Judge Allen's speeches are plain, with no attempt at oratory. She merely says to people, "Things in the political world are very bad, but we do not need to have them so. If you get something in the cog of the wheel of your Ford, you get it out; if something has got into the cog of the wheels of government, let's get it out." She is an indefatigable worker—loves to work—loves nothing better than to throw herself whole-souled into the subject she has at hand. She does not indulge much in social recreation, escapes
344 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
just as many social invitations as she can, seldom accepting a dinner engagement. What she likes to do above all other things is to go home, after work in the office is over, and go to bed. Eight o'clock is her usual bedtime, if she can make it possible. She likes to get up in the morning and have a walk, then go to her desk and get things cleared up, letters answered, the work of the day out of the way, before she appears in Court. When Miss Allen visited Salt Lake City, in the summer of 1923, she delivered an address in the First Congregational Church. Her address was a strong plea for the abolition of war and the settlement of national differences through an international court; she maintained that war had not yet been pronounced a crime, and she said that the first duty of all nations is to make it a criminal act on the part of a nation to participate in war, so that nations become liable, and may be justifiably summoned before the court in the event of participation in war. Miss Allen was, on the night of her address in Salt Lake City, in excellent spirits, seemingly very happy to be home with her friends in Salt Lake City, and with her mother. It must be a matter of sincere pride to all Utahns, particularly the women of Utah, that the first woman in the world to be elected Judge of a Supreme Court was born within the state. It is no small distinction to Salt Lake City that it has given birth to and nurtured in her tender years, this woman who, through legal means, is striving in every way possible to advance the cause of women. We trust this sketch embodies some things as yet unpublished, for in days to come when data concerning Judge Allen is sought, we wish her native state to be able to make its contribution.
America By Mrs. B. H. Butler
On the mountains and in the valleys wide, Nature's beauties smile on every side. Oh, America is the land Where no king shall ever stand To molest our freedoms' banner pure and true.
So remember, one and all Be true to our nation's call, And the "Stars and Stripes" will always wave for you.
Goitre Dr. J. Wallace, Epidemiologist, Utah State Board of Health Formerly of Rockefeller Foundation
The subject assigned to me this morning is that of goitre, and I suppose you all know what goitre is—that it is simply an enlargement of the thyroid gland, and you know where the gland is located, in the middle line of the neck; and probably you have seen so many cases of goitre that you have thought it was of little consequence. Now, I would not be inclined at any time to magnify the meaning of goitre or its presence. I do not think it is anything that people should get into hysterics over. On the other hand, I am fully aware of the fact that it is something about which we ought to be concerned. It is not a matter that we can think of lightly and as a temporary thing, and therefore a thing to be disregarded. I know it doesn't create as great a disability as some diseases, such as hookworm, which has such a deadening and dulling effect on the intellect and mind that you can go into a school and can pretty nearly tell by looking at the children whether or not they are infected. Through this disease the people of the south have been deprived of all ambition to work and are often called lazy. Goitre is not so disabling a disease, because sometimes in a school I find the brightest boys and girls have marked goitre, but they are advanced in their studies not because they have goitre, but in spite of it. We ought to estimate the menace of goitre not according to its present disability, but according to its ultimate result, and the sad thing about it is that people are inclined to think it will disappear. In some cases it does disappear, but in others it does not disappear. I can point out to you facts which prove that goitre does not recede in a very large percentage of cases. I do not know whether any person here is inclined to regard it as a mark of beauty. There was a certain time in the history of goitre when it was regarded as a mark of beauty. In Derbyshire, England, it was called Derbyshire neck, and if you will look at the old paintings, you will find that the beauties of the day were represented as having goitre. You may all remember the picture of the beautiful Queen Louise, supposed to be the most beautiful woman in Germany, and that Queen Louise wore a kerchief about her neck. Why? With all her beauty she had a goitre which she greatly disliked and tried to hide it from the public. It is very important that we remember that among the young people, practically all cases of goitre are cases of simple goitre,
GOITRE 347
Relief Society, and women's organizations generally. We are doing this work not to frighten any one (and I don't want any woman to be frightened if she discovers that her daughter has an enlargement of the thyroid gland), but we are doing it in order to discover the facts, because it is first essential to know what conditions are in order to know how to meet the conditions. We are glad to know now that this enlargement of the thyroid gland, or goitre, is a deficiency disease, just as scurvy or rickets is a deficiency disease, or beri-beri, all due to the lack of certain vitamines or certain elements that should enter into our food and drink, and which if lacking, will cause a development of the disease. As we have already indicated, the element that is lacking in this particular case is the element of iodine. There are three periods in the life of an individual when we find the thyroid gland especially developing or especially enlarging: the period of birth, the period of adolescence, or puberty, and the period of pregnancy in women. Two of these periods, the period of birth and pregnancy come under the observation of the doctor, and it has been shown satisfactorily that where all pregnant women are given an adequate supply of iodine no goitre develops either in the women or in the children that are to be born. In some schools, we have found 53% of the children having goitre. Why did they have it? Because their mothers had a deficiency before they were born. They have not yet passed through puberty. They started life with a handicap. If women, during the first six months of pregnancy, were given an adequate supply of iodine, they themselves would be protected, and their offspring would be protected also. Then there is the period of puberty. This is a period that can be satisfactorily handled in the schools. Different methods have been adopted for the administration of iodine. In Rochester they put iodine in the water supply of the city, but this is expensive and is not necessary, since only a portion of the water is used for drinking. It has been found more economical to administer iodine in the form in which it is being administered in the state of Utah, in the form of tablets. The advantage of this is that if you give Mary Brown ten milligrams of iodine, you know that she has received ten milligrams. If you put it into the public water supply, you do not know how much Mary Brown is going to drink. If you put it into the salt supply, which is the method in use in Switzerland, you do not know how much salt she is going to use. Some people can get along with far less iodine than others because a great many people apparently have the power whereby they can reconvert the supply of iodine they have and can use it over and over again. In some people there is a defect
348 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
whereby they lose that power. They cannot reconvert it and that is why some of them develop goitre. Some people seem to be unable to absorb iodine. That is why in non-goitrous areas you will find, occasionally, a person with goitre. In Utah there is a great deficiency of iodine in our water. If you analyze water here and compare it with water toward the mouth of the Mississippi or on the Atlantic coast, it will be found that the water in the latter places has anywhere from one hundred to one thousand times as much iodine as the water supply of Utah. You will see therefore, that in giving iodine supply to children, you are not giving them a drug, but simply something that they are being deprived of. You add salt to your food, and you do not add any iodine, and it is just as essential that you should add iodine as that you should add salt. Dr. Marine said the other day that if all pregnant women would take an ample supply of iodine, and if girls between 10 and 17 would do likewise, 90% of the goitre cases could be prevented. You have a great opportunity to eradicate goitre in Utah, because the State Board of Health has taken action whereby it is made possible for you to obtain this preventive treatment at a nominal cost, in fact, it is provided for you at less than the wholesale rate. It is obtained at these reduced rates for the schools because nobody is making any profit on it, and the manufacturer is co-operating with the health officials. Let us bear in mind always that there are two types of goitre in which we do not administer iodine: to those who have the adenoma type (new growth) or the toxic (poisonous) type. People with these types of goitre should consult a physician and adopt such measures as are prescribed by him.
Care of the Expectant Mother Miss Charlotte Dancy, Dean of Women, Utah State Agricultural College
I congratulate you as a body of women on having taken your stand with the State of Utah and with the Federal Government in adopting and promoting the Sheppard-Towner Bill. There are few more important things that women can be engaged in, for our national health is dependent upon good obstetrics. I shall quote this morning from a book on obstetrics written by an acquaintance, a nurse who studied at Johns Hopkins when I did. Together Miss Van Blarcom and I learned to care for, bathe and dress a new-born babe. Even at that time, the author of Getting Ready to be a Mother and Obstetrical Nursing showed an interest
CARE OF THE EXPECTANT MOTHER 349
in mothers and their young babies which was to direct her life's effort into the study and care of them, an interest made keener, I am sure, by the fact that she, as a child, suffered from one of the preventable diseases of childhood, St. Vitus' Dance. Miss Van Blarcom says, "The aim of good obstetrics is to build a strong and bouyant race," and "The striking difference between obstetrics as practiced today and that of former times is that it now lays as much stress upon the future health of the mother and baby as upon their immediate safety. Happily, the present day obstetrician who assumes the care of the expectant mother, does so with confidence and optimism because of the available knowledge upon which he may draw for her benefit." These words remind us of the great debt that we owe to Pasteur who, by his work on bacteria and other micro-organisms, led the way to modern maternity practice. Though slow to develop, nevertheless all our present-day prevention of child-bed fever, milk leg, and the many other ills associated with infection at child birth, I say the prevention of these dread conditions, is based on our knowledge of bacteria. I never make an alignment such as this against bacteria without wishing that I had time to discuss with my audience the great use and benefit to mankind of many of these tiny micro-organisms. While the pathogenic bacteria which cause diseases give us so much concern, yet it is true that other strains of these same little creatures keep life upon the earth and are one of God's great blessings to mankind. In the United States in the year 1920, Dr. Dublin tells us that 20,000 mothers lost their lives at childbirth; 100,000 children were born dead, and 200,000 died in the first year of life, and most of this was preventable. Dreadful as these figures are, they are not so bad as in some of the other nations of the world. In the Philippine Islands we have a condition which is worse than that of any nation in which statistics have been taken. In Manila the peculiar condition exists that more breast-fed babies die in their first year than babies fed on the bottle. The lesson to be drawn from this strange state of affairs is the lesson of prenatal care and its great importance to the babe as well as to the mother. The subject of mothercraft logically divides itself into four periods: 1. The nine months of pregnancy: 2. The few hours of labor; 3. The few weeks of the puerperium (the restoration of the mother); 4. The nine to eleven months of lactation. Too great stress cannot be laid upon an intelligent understanding of these four periods.
Pregnancy: During the pregnancy the child is building its body from the material furnished it by the mother. Its teeth, both first and second (or permanent teeth) are being laid down in out-
350 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
line. The lime and phosphorus so essential to the bony skeleton of the child will be taken from the mother at the expense of her teeth, hair, etc., if she does not provide them in her blood stream. The mother's abdominal muscles must be kept strong and active so as to help her keep the developing uterus in the correct position and so that she may use them when bearing down is needed. A daily walk in the open air helps here. The mother's kidneys and skin must be kept in perfect condition so that her own excretions and those of the unborn child may be carried off and not remain in the body to poison both. A daily bath, plenty of water to drink, and keeping her tissues alkaline help in this. The mother's bowels, especially the lower bowel, must be kept active so that there may be no accumulation of the by-products of intestinal bacteria accumulating in the bowels and being reabsorbed to poison the mother and child. This can be avoided by developing the abdominal muscles, eating food containing roughage, such as bran, lettuce, etc., food containing nature's laxatives such as the oil of the wheat germ, the phytin of the bran, the juices of fruits, especially the raw dried prune, etc.
Labor: During labor the best care is to keep the mother quiet, free from visitors, having one nurse or friend whose business it is to cheer and attend her and see to her nourishment and what physical comforts one is able to give at such times; to keep the doctor informed of the progress of labor, and above all things to make no internal examinations. Even the doctor refrains from putting his hands to the uterus at this time, so great is the danger of introducing infection by the hand.
Puerperium: During the puerperium, the new mother must be given rest, and nourishment (almost anything which she digests well and which she knows does not cause gas and distress in her alimentary canal). She must be kept clean with a daily bath in bed, and a thorough local cleansing given only by someone who has been taught how, and she must be kept off her feet, free from fatigue and responsibility until all signs of the lochia (which is the discharge after childbirth) has ceased. This is a point which is all too often neglected and treated too lightly. I was told just recently by a young mother that most of her acquaintances among the young married women have a regular monthly flow after childbirth, during the nursing period. I can't accent too strongly that this is a sign that the uterus has not receded to its proper state of tone, and everybody in the family, husband, mother, mother-in-law, and growing children, if there be any such, should see to it that the new mother is put to bed and kept there as soon as a discharge begins after it has once stopped. If the mother is cared for in a hospital she will not be allowed to go home until the lochia has ceased and the baby's cord is off, healed, and in per-
National and International Councils of Women (Quinquennial Meeting, Washington, D. C., May, 1925) Mrs. Amy Brown Lyman, General Secretary.
In May of 1925 the greatest meeting of women which the United States has ever known will be held in Washington, D. C. This meeting will be under the auspices of the International Council of Women, which is a great federation or league or council representing the organized women of the world—thirty-six million refined, educated thinking women, belonging through their own national organizations to this great Council. The International Council is composed of National Councils or groups, thirty-four in number, representing the women of the various nations or countries; and these National Councils are in turn made up of local national associations, societies and federations. The International Council of Women will be 37 years old in April, 1925, having been formed in Washington, D. C., in 1888, at a great gathering of women called for the purpose by the National Woman's Suffrage Association of America. This conference was well planned and was wonderfully successful. It covered a period of seven days. Nearly one hundred addresses were given by women from seven different countries, and representing fifty-three national organizations. In addition to organization reports there were nine general or major subjects discussed, including temperance, philanthropy, education, health, industries, political conditions, etc. The sessions opened on Sunday with religious services; and it is a source of pride to women to know that these services were conducted by three ordained women ministers who were just as capable as the men ministers of the day. They were Rev. Antoinette B. Blackwell, Rev. Olympia Brown, and Rev. Anna Howard Shaw. At this first great organization meeting, the National Woman's Relief Society and the National Young Ladies Mutual Improvement Association were invited to send delegates, which they did, and these delegates with others, reported the work of their respective organizations. The objects, purpose and policy of the International Council of Women are set forth in the Preamble and Constitution, from which the following is quoted: "We, women of all Nations, sincerely believing that the best good of humanity will be advanced by greater unity of thought, sympathy and purpose, and that an organized movement of women will best conserve the highest good of the family and of the INTERNATIONAL COUNCILS OF WOMEN 353 State, do hereby band ourselves in a confederation of workers, committed to the overthrow of all forms of ignorance and injustice, and to the application of the Golden Rule to society, custom, and law. That we may successfully prosecute the work, we adopt the following constitution. This Federation shall be called the International Council of Women. This Council is organized in the interest of no one propaganda, and has no power over its auxiliaries beyond that of suggestion and sympathy; therefore, no National Council voting. To become auxiliary to the International Council shall thereby render itself liable to be interfered with in respect to its complete organic unity, indepertdence or method of work, or shall be committed to any principle or method of any other Council or to any utterance or act of this International Council beyond compliance with the Constitution." At the same time and place that the International Council was organized, in 1888, the National Council of Women of the United States was organized, with the same aims and purposes, and it was the first of all of the national councils to federate with the international organization. It was soon followed, however, by the National Councils of Canada, Germany, Sweden and Great Britain, and later by others, until now there are thirty-nine national organizations belonging to this great league, and the women of China, Japan and India are planning now to join. Among the ¢ charter members of the National Council of the United States were the Relief Society and the Y. L. M. I. A. These organizations still belong and enjoy taking part in its deliberations, and profit greatly by the contact such affiliation affords. In contemplating the great International Council, the question naturally arises, What prompted its origin? How was it conceived? What were its. Beginnings? In answer, it might be explained that the Council idea was conceived in the brains of Amer- 'can women who had been working forty years for woman suffrage. These women felt that they had accomplished a great deal, and at the end of forty years they thought it would be a good idea to. Get the women of the world together in a reunion to talk over the progress made by women and the many human problems in which women are naturally interested. The International Council came really as a process of growth, as an evolvement from other organizations. It represented the great women's movement of the day and was the climax thereof. So, in order to get an idea of how the Council came to be we must go back to the movements which preceded it, and which led up to it. The Council was the child of the suffrage movement, the object of which 356. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE A very interesting feature, in connection with the meeting next year in Washington, D. C., is the fact that the women of the United States will meet the women of the world for the first time as full-fledged American citizens. Arrangements for the meetings have already begun, The National Daughters of the American Revolution have offered the use of the Memorial Continental Hall, and the use of the Pan-American Building has been secured. The sessions will be most interesting. The first evening will be the formal opening when Mrs. Moore will present the President of the United States, the Secretary of State, and the President of the National D. A. R. There will be addresses of welcome in English, French, and German by three of the vicepresidents. Lady Aberdeen will respond to the welcome. The second evening will be a musical, the program to be made up of the Indian Music of the early days, Negro Spirituals, and music of American composers. The National Council of Women, as hostess to this great gathering of women, is most anxious for this meeting to be a success. The president, Mrs. Moore, and her capable officers, including our own Mrs. Ruth May Fox, are doing their utmost for its success; and standing squarely behind these officers are the women of America. We appeal now to the women of Utah to do their mite. It has been decided by the National Council to organize the women of each state, and a chairman for the state of Utah has been appointed in the person of our own dear President Clarissa S. Williams, to help make preparations for this great event. Mrs, Williams has accepted this appointment and I am sure will feel very responsible, and very anxious for the women of Utah to do whatever they may be asked to do to help out. With this gathering. I am sure that the women of Utah will support Mrs. Williams in whatever she is asked to do, and will help her to carry forward any plan that the National president may ask of her. I pray that the Lord will bless us and accept our labors, and. Accept our thanks for the wonderful opportunity He has given to women. — Mrs. Ruth May Fox 'Member of the General Presidency of the Y. L. M. 1. A., and auditor of the National Council, indorsed the remarks of Mrs. Lyman and spoke of the great international meeting which is being arranged for by the National Council, which is composed of ten million women. Mrs. Fox stated that it is her desire that all Utah women will be so interested in the coming quinquennial that they will assist in making it a success; and that if any are contemplating a trip to the eastern states 'within a year or two, they will keep in mind that in May, 1925, will be held this great meeting. 389 Two of the girls have taken advantage of this privilege and are doing work for the dead. "We have been fortunate this winter in joining with the three year girls in morning devotional exercises, and in hearing some of the most distinguished speakers in the city at their Monday night theology classes. We are also invited to join in all their social activities.” "We wish to express our gratitude to a number of the doctors who have so willingly given their time in lecturing on subjects pertaining to our work, and for their kindness and attention in times of sickness.” We are also desirous of expressing our appreciation to the hospital authorities and the General Board of the Relief Society for the improvements which have been made in our home, making it more comfortable and home like. We have very much enjoyed the monthly visits of the members of the General Board of the Relief Society and the valuable advice and instructions given us. "Nearly all of the girls who take this one year Relief Society training course come from parts of the country where medical skill is scarce, and to them will fall the responsibility of caring for the sick and afflicted. We hope to hear the same good reports of them, and their work, that we have of members of former classes. In their work in the hospital, these girls have been diligent, conscientious and energetic and have been a help to one another in their studies and home life. As their supervisor I can say that I have enjoyed their association and feel a personal responsibility for each one. They have been loyal and respectful and have supported me in every way, and I hope they will go from our institution with a full determination in their hearts to relieve pain and suffering in their respective communities; seeking divine aid at all times, coupling faith with their works and applying the knowledge they have gained for the good of those with whom they come in contact, remembering always the golden rule, Do unto others as you would have others do unto you. What Our Training at the Latter-day Saint Hospital Has Meant to Us was the subject of the paper presented by Miss Winona Hill of Sunnyside, Utah, from whose address we quote the following: - "There is no profession which develops the character more than a nurse's training. In addition to caring for the physical needs of the patient, we have the opportunity of bringing into our work that God-given gift, the touch of human kindness. With- "out it our work becomes mechanical and we find no joy or satisfaction in our labors. "The further we advance in our work, the more seriously we 360. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE realize the importance of caring for our own health, and we feel that by living up to those high ideals which our training has taught us we shall be better prepared to care for ourselves and our families in whatever circumstances of life we may be placed. "Our training has taught us to render greater service to our fellow men, to our Church and to our God, and we hope to belong to that class of nurses who are always ready to heed the call of duty and say with Kipling: 'And none but the Master shall praise us, And none but the Master shall blame; And no one shall work for money, And no one shall work for fame; But each for the love of the working And each in his separate star Shall work out the thing as he finds it, 279 For the love of things as they are'. 'After the reading of the paper two solos were sung by Miss Abigail Merseberg, of Honolulu, a member of the graduating class, accompanied by Miss Mildred Bird and Mr. And Mrs. Mathias Nelson. The address to the graduates was made by Bishop Charles W. Nibley of the Presiding Bishopric. Bishop Nibley stated that he recognizes the importance of such classes and believes that yet some way and means will be found whereby they may be continued. This preparation will benefit the girls as it not only prepares them to help others, but also prepares them for marriage. He encouraged the cultivation of the quality of patience. Love of work is essential, but the virtue of great patience must be added. This great profession is an outgrowth of only recent years. It's beginning was at the time of Florence Nightingale. The importance of nursing was demonstrated in the recent world war. It's importance may also be seen in our daily work.. The spirit and inspiration of the Almighty are needed always. It may be secured by prayer, chastity. And the living of pure | lives. The Spirit of God will not prompt where these are not present. Holiness is necessary to true success. Another quality needed is good sound sense. A nurse must also have a realization of her duty to her fellow men. Common sense is needed for the guidance of the world; common sense in place of so much theory. Judgement, skill, patience, and a reliance upon God will bring success. "Seek the Lord and he will guide you. Man cannot be guided by sight alone, but must also have faith." He advised the girls always to be in a position to learn. The wisest have only begun to learn. There is much to learn in the medical field. "What a piece of work is man!" Many fields as yet are only scratched.. 362, © RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE that was not their right. She recalled the fact that this newly graduated group had become a new unit of a much larger group, who had gone forth comforting and blessing and helping to restore to health the sick, and that in that larger group were to be found a goodly number who had become noted in the profession. "Always feel that you are children of the Relief Society and that the Relief Society is your mother. Your responsibility is to aid the Relief Society in aiding those who cannot afford to pay." She asked God's blessings upon the girls. Acknowledgement was made to the Civic Center for the instruction of dietetics given by Mrs. Henrietta Burton. Appreciation was also extended to the following physicians: Dr. Geo. W. Middleton, Dr. S. H. Allen, Dr. A. L. Brown, Dr. T. F. H. Morton, Dr. J. Z. Brown, Dr. A. C. Callister, Dr. W. Christopherson, Dr. E. L. Skidmore, Dr. F. S Hatch, Dr. J. F. Sharp, and Dr. F, M. McHugh. Doxology was the closing song. Prayer was offered by Sister Emma A. Empey. Notes from the Field Amy Brown Lyman 1924 AUXILIARY GROUP CONVENTIONS The Auxiliary Group Convention season with the Relief Societies, Sunday Schools, Young Men's and Young Ladies' Mutual Improvement Associations, and Primary Associations cooperating, will open July 19, 1924, and will extend through the months of August, September, October and November. The plan heretofore adopted of holding these conventions in connection with the regular quarterly conferences of the stakes will be followed. The whole of the first day of the conference, usually Saturday, and the forenoon of the second day, usually Sunday, will be devoted to meetings of the auxiliaries. A regular quarterly conference session will be held at 2 p.m. In the afternoon of the second day, usually Sunday. The schedule of meetings has been simplified, tewer meetings are programed, but the work is none the less intensive and thorough. The general plan contemplates a joint meeting of the members of all auxiliary stake boards, separate meetings of the stake boards of each auxiliary, with stake and ward officers, a public meeting giving each auxiliary opportunity to present its message and appeal to the people. And an interview of the general representatives with their respective stake superintendencies or presidencies and secretaries. The stake and ward music committees and stake and ward recreation committees will also meet. 364 " RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE An attendance contest among auxiliary associations is planned. The stake and ward organizations will vie with each other for first honors for attendance of their workers at convention meetings. One hundred per cent attendance of all stake board members and a full representation from each ward will be sought. Programs of the meetings will be distributed to stake and ward presiding authorities. Other necessary, general and special instructions will be sent out from the office of the General Board. The success of the convention in each stake and for each organization depends upon the full cooperation, support, and attendance of stake board and ward workers, and the conventions are planned with no other thought except that every convention will be thoroughly successful. Parowan Stake.  The attendance in Parowan stake was greatly increased in 1923, as a result of a contest for pictures offered as prizes, the pictures later to be hung in the Relief Society rooms. Tongan Mission. Mrs. Lavera W. Coombs, president of the Relief Society in the Tongan mission, writes : "I am inclosing the report of the Tongan Relief Societies for 1923. I feel that although we are greatly hindered through having no text or reference books, the Relief Societies are a strong factor for good in our missionary work. "There are three conferences in this mission, viz., Vavau, Haapai, and Togatabu, and all three donated liberally towards the mission chapel. The Vavau branch bought material for the
new Church school dormitory. This branch also donated half the necessary funds for buying a small cutter (sail boat) for the use of the missionaries and local priesthood in that conference.
"The Neiafu members (four in number) sent to Salt Lake City for an individual sacrament set of which they are justly proud. The Haapai ward spent all their cash on hand, as well as their time and energy, caring for one of the elders through his sickness and burial. Our women throughout the whole mission have attracted much attention through their splendid charity work during the past year, which has been extended to 'Mormons' and non-'Mormons' alike." Morgan Stake.
At the recent Relief Society conference held in Morgan stake, a splendid attendance record was made, there being 60%o f the enrolled members present. Among the interesting numbers on the program were a talk on women as citizens, and law enforcement, and a demonstration of the use of the teachers' topic in a home. Bingham. Stake. The Relief Societies of Bingham stake have many accomplishments to their credit for 1923. They contributed $2,400 to furnish twelve rooms of the Idaho Falls Hospital, besides: sewing 1,864 pieces, including sheets, pillow cases, curtains, towels, napkins, surgical garments, etc. They are at present giving one afternoon a month to hospital sewing. A joint meeting of. The Relief Society, Y. L. M. I. A., and Primary was held in this stake recently in connection with. The Priesthood conference, in which welfare work was discussed. The Idaho Falls Post says of this meeting: "A health conference, to be conducted by the State-Department of Public Welfare, under the direction of Dr. F. W. Almond, state health examiner, and his assistants, is to be held ° in Idaho Falls during the first week of August according to an announcement made Saturday afternoon at the Mothers' meeting conducted under the auspices of the various branches of the L. D.'S. Church. "This will be the first time in the history of Bonneville county that a free clinic will be held for the examination of mothers. Maternity and Infant Welfare were announced as the two subjects which will come in for the greatest consideration this year, and in an address given by Mrs. S. J. Ewin of the state bureau of child hygiene, at the meeting Saturday afternoon, this subject was handled in a most enlightening way. Resolutions were adopted in which it was resolved that the young people of Bonneville county should be better educated and' prepared for parenthood and home making; that higher ideals be instilled into the sons and daughters for parenthood, and great stress was laid on the necessity of teaching parenthood in the public schools. "It was also resolved by the organization to advocate the aid, in a financial and educational way, of the cause of maternity and infant welfare, and a further resolution resented the attitude of an individual or organization who would sacrifice the life of a mother and child for material gain. "Two very instructive and enjoyable meetings were conducted, in the morning and afternoon, on Saturday, under the direction of the Relief Society, Y. L. M. I. A. And the Primary department. "The meetings were presided over by Mrs. James Laird, president of the Bingham stake Relief Society." NOTES FROM THE FIELD Sevier Stake. The Sevier stake board conducted an excursion to the Manti temple in March, when one hundred ninety people were officiated for. Teton Stake. Late in the year of 1923, the stake and local officers and members of the Relief Society gave a testimonial for the retiring stake board. A splendid program was given and a delicious luncheon served. President Susie M. Wilson and her counselors and the honorary members of the board were presented with appropriate gifts. During the recent priesthood conference in Teton, the Relief Society held a very successful conference with 150 in attendance, and with 15 of the 16 wards represented. Liberty Stake. The Relief Societies of Liberty stake recently gave a testimonial in honor of the bishops of the various wards of the stake. This testimonial was in the form of an excursion to the temple. Two hundred thirty-five Relief Society workers responded to this invitation. Box Elder Stake. A demonstrative home health center for infants and children of pre-school age was given last December in Brigham City, sponsored by the stake board of Relief Society in conjunction with the other women's organizations of the city, and under the direction of the Utah State Board of Health. Comfortable quarters were provided in the court house, and the doctors and dentists of the city gave their time for two days to examine and prescribe for the 106 children of pre-school age who were brought to the health center. Two hundred sixty-seven defects were found in these children, the majority being of the nose and throat. Only three were absolutely normal, including the teeth. Nine prenatal conferences were given. In February, the follow-up work commenced by what is hoped will be a permanent health center organization. One day each week will be given to examining and prescribing for children and noting the progress made by those examined in previous clinics. The purpose of this work is that all physical handicaps causing mental backwardness or retardation in school will have been removed before the child begins his schooling. Another feature of the year's work in the Relief Society is the adoption of the following slogan to be repeated by the congregation at each meeting, led by a sister who will relate a faithpromoting incident of her own experience or knowledge: "We stand for faith in God—ever looking upward and onward, with love and service for humanity." 366. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE In Memoriam Blackfoot Stake. Relief Socjety stake presidents and Relief Society workers generally will be sorry to learn of the death of Mrs. Signe A. Davis,. President of the Blackfoot stake Relief Society. Mrs. Davis was an exceptional woman in many ways and one of our strong and capable stake presidents. The General Board appreciates her excellent work, both as stake secretary and stake president, and extends through these columns heartfelt sympathy to her husband and family. Tintic Stake. Mrs. Rosetta Birch, first counselor in the Tintic Stake Relief Society, and wife of President E. Franklin Birch, passed away suddenly in the late winter. Mrs. Birch had for seven years served faithfully in the stake work and in the community generally, and is deeply mourned by all who knew her. North Sanpete Stake. Mrs. Rebecca Winters Tucker, aged 87, has passed to her reward after many years of faithful service in mortality. She was for thirty-four years a member of the Fairview Relief Society presidency, and was known for her good deeds and helpfulness. Mrs. Tucker was born in Kirtland, Ohio, and in 1852 came to Ultah with her parents, Hyrum and Rebecca Winters. Her mother, Rebecca Winters, died and was buried on the trail from Iowa to Utah. The grave, originally marked with a wagon tire, has since become a place of interest to many Latter-day Saints, and a monument has taken the place of the original marker. Mrs. Tucker was the wife of Amasa Tucker, and six children have been born to them. In pioneer days she often fed the Indians and made beds all over the floor for them. She was always ready to help the poor and needy, to minister to. The sick and to lay out the dead. Her slogan was, "Hold each other's character sacred; do not judge hastily." She is survived by one son and three daughters, thirty grand-children, eigthy great grand-children, and two great great grand-children. Wayne Stake In the death of Celia A. Heath, the Torrey Relief Society lost one of its most faithful workers: Mrs, Heath, who has been a permanent resident of Torrey for many years, acted as a teacher in the Relief Society and was later chosen as a counselor, which position she held at the time of her death. She was always energetic and faithful in her labors. Mrs, Heath was the mother of thirteen children, Guide Lessons for September LESSON I Theology and Testimony (First Week in September) THE PARABLES OF OUR SAVIOR (Continued) Next to the kingdom of heaven itself, it would seem that forgiveness was a matter of concern with the Lord Jesus. And this is certainly consistent with his mission. He is the great Source of the remission of sins, but for his sacrifice the race sin which brought death into the world would hold men in their graves forever. We cannot say that Jesus was a great repenter because he did not sin; but we can say that he was the greatest forgiver that is known to history. He taught forgiveness, he practiced forgiveness; and among his last utterances he called upon his Father to forgive all men. Little wonder then that we are divinely commanded to forgive all men, and told that our being forgiven depends upon our forgiveness of others. No one can consistently adopt the Lord's prayer who is in an unforgiving state of mind. Forgiveness is one of the conditions of heaven, perhaps one of the most important conditions. There may be selfishness in repentance but perfect forgiveness is entirely altruistic. It is the great test which determines our capability to do as we would be done by. It seems plain that without forgiving hearts no place could be heaven and no condition can be heavenly. Then it follows that to be unforgiving means to be unfit for heaven. Jesus preached forgiveness in sermons, and taught it in parable, and practiced it marvelously. The Parable of the Unmerciful Servant—Matt. 18:23-35. "Therefore is the kingdom of heaven likened unto the king, which did take account of his servants. "And when he had begun to reckon, one was brought unto him, which owed him ten thousand talents: "But forasmuch as he had naught to pay, his lord commanded him to be sold, and his wife, and children, and all that lie had, and payment io be made:. "The servant therefore fell down, and worshipped him, saying, Lord, have patience with me, and I will pay thee all. 368 +RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE "Then the lord of that servant was moved with compassion, and loosed him, and forgave him the debt. "But the same servant went out, and found one of his fellow servants which owed him an hundred pence; and he laid hands on him, and took him by the throat, saying, Pay me that thou owest. "And his fellow servant fell down at his feet, and besought him, saying, Have patience with me, and I will pay thee all. "And he would not; but went and cast him into prison, till he should pay the debt. "So when his fellowservants saw what was done, they were very sorry, and came and told unto their lord all that was done. "Then his lord, after that he had called him, said unto him, O thou wicked servant, I forgave thee all that debt, because thou desirest me: "Shouldest not thou also have had compassion on thy fellow servant, even as I had pity on thee? "And his lord was wroth, and delivered him to the tormentors till he should pay all that was due unto him. "So likewise shall my heavenly Father do also unto you, if ye from your hearts forgive not every one his brother their trespasses." This parable was evidently directed to the business custom of enslaving for debt. The kingdom of heaven is compared to a king, just and merciful, one to whom an account must be rendered and adjustments made in keeping with the willingness and ability of the debtor to pay. Then as now business men were in positions of power and needed for their own sakes to be shown that there is no perfect justice without mercy. This parable brought them face to face with forgiveness in a business transaction in which three things were illustrated: First, that heaven would demand a reckoning for opportunities and abilities entrusted to every individual; second, that forgiveness was a practice of heaven; and third, that unforgiveness in man resulted in a necessary unforgiveness of heaven even for sins that had previously been forgiven. The lesson is illustrative of a temporary admittance into heaven through forgiveness and then a sudden banishment from heaven through the manifestation of an unheavenly state on man's part and the authority and power that keep heaven heavenly. The Parable of the Two Debtors—Luke 7:41-43. "There was a certain creditor which had two debtors: the one owed five hundred pence, and the other fifty: "And when they had nothing to pay, he frankly forgave them both. Tell me, therefore, which of them will love him most? GUIDE LESSONS FOR SEPTEMBER . 369 "Simon answered and said, I suppose that he to whom he forgave most. And he said unto him, Thou hast rightly judged." This parable was given to show the relation between forgiveness and love: that where there is much of one, there is an abundance of the other. Forgiveness not only begets love in the heart of the one who is forgiven but it develops love in the heart of the one who forgives. The parable was also a polite rebuke to the unforgiveness of the Pharisee at whose house Jesus was a guest. By reference to verse thirty-nine it will be seen that on that occasion Jesus read the mind of his hypocritical host and answered his unexpressed opinion of Jesus as to whether he was a prophet or an impostor. For an understanding of the setting and the circumstance of this parable a study of Luke 7-37-50 should be made. It should be clearly kept in mind that in the light of the life of Jesus, it cannot be thought that sinning to be forgiven that we may love. Or be loved is taught by this parable. The woman had not transgressed to be forgiven but through weakness and having repented she came to Jesus for an authoritative release from the thraldom of her iniquity, and having 'been forgiven, her gratitude brought her to Jesus with gifts expressive of her appreciation of his power and generosity of spirit. The Parable of the Prodigal Son—Luke 15:11-32. - "And he said, A certain man had two sons: "And the younger of them said to his father, Father, give me the portion of goods that falleth to me. And he divided unto them his living. "And not many days after, the younger son gathered all together and took his journey into a far country, and there wasted his substance with riotous living. "And when he had spent all, there arose a mighty famine in that land; and he began to be in want. "And he went and joined himself to a citizen of that country; and he sent him into his fields to feed swine. "And he would fain have filled his belly with the husks that the swine did eat: and no mangave unto him. "And when he came to himself, he said, How many hired servants of my father's have 'bread enough and to spare, and I perish with hunger! "I will arise and go to my father, and will say unto him, Father, I have sinned against heaven, and before thee, "And am no more worthy to be called thy son: make me as one of thy hired servants. "And he arose and came to his father. But when he was yet - Js RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE LESSON II Work and Business (Second Week in September) LESSON III Literature (Third Week in September) OLIVER WENDELL HOLMES—Continued In our last lesson on Holmes, we emphasized his genial nature, a nature that radiated sunshine as definitely as any light or heat center radiates light and warmth. In Edward Bok's famous autobiography, he tells us of his visit to Holmes. It is so interesting that we shall include part of it in this lesson: Bok arrived in Boston on. Sunday evening; and the first thing he did was to dispatch a note, by messenger, to Dr. Oliver Wendell Holmes, announcing the important fact that he was there, and what his errand was, and asking whether he might come up and see Dr. Holmes any time the next day. Edward naively told him that he could come as early as Dr. Holmes liked—by breakfast time, he was assured, as Edward was all alone! Dr. Holmes' amusement at this ingenuous note may be imagined. Within the hour the boy brought back this answer: "My Dear Boy:—I shall certainly look for you tomorrow morning at eight o'clock to have a piece of pie with me. That is real New England, you know. "Very cordially yours, "Oliver Wendell Holmes." Edward was there at eight o'clock. Strictly speaking, he was there at seven-thirty, and found the author already at his desk in that room overlooking the Charles River, which he learned in after years to know better. "Well," was the cheery greeting, "you couldn't wait until eight for your breakfast, could you? Neither could I, when I was a boy. I used to have my breakfast at seven," and then telling the boy all about his boyhood, the cheery poet led him to the dining-room, and for the first time he breakfasted away from home and ate pie—and that with "The 'Autocrat' at his own breakfast table! A cosier time no boy could have had. Just the two were there, and the smiling face that looked out over the plates and cups gave GUIDE LESSONS FOR SEPTEMBER .. 373 the boy courage to tell all that this trip was going to mean to him. "And you have come on just to see us, have you?" chuckled the poet, "Now, tell me, what good do you think you will get out of it?" He was told what the idea was: that every successful man had something to tell a boy, that would be likely to help him, and that Edward Bok wanted to see the men who had written books that people enjoyed. Dr. Holmes could not conceal his amusement at all this. When breakfast was finished, Doctor Holmes said: "Do you know that I am a full-fledged carpenter? No? Well, I am. Come into my carpenter shop." And he led the way into a front-basement room where there was a complete carpenter's outfit. "You know I am a doctor," he explained, "and this shop is my medicine. I believe that every man must have a hobby that is as different from his regular work as it is possible to be. It is not good for a man to work all the time at one thing. So this is my hobby. This is my change. I like to putter away at these things. Every day I try to come down here for an hour or so. It rests me because it gives my mind a complete change. For, whether you believe it or not," he added with his inimitable chuckle, "to make a poem and to make a chair are two very different things."
"Now," he continued, "if you think you can learn something from me, learn that, and remember it when you are a man. Don't keep always at your business, whatever it may be. It makes no difference how much you like it. The more you like it, the more dangerous it is. When you grow up you will understand what I mean by an 'outlet'—a hobby, that is—in your life, and it must be so different from your regular work that it will take your thoughts into an entirely different direction. We doctors call it a safety-valve, and it is. I would much rather," concluded the poet, "you would forget all that I have ever written than that you should forget what I tell you about having a safety-valve."
"And now do you know," smilingly said the poet, "about the Charles River here?" as they returned to his study and stood before the large bay window. "I love this river," he said. "Yes, I love it," he repeated; "I love it in summer or in winter." And then he was quiet for a minute or so.
Edward asked him which of his poems were his favorites.
"Well," he said musingly, "I think The Chambered Nautilus is my most finished piece of work, and I suppose it is my favorite. But there are also: The Voiceless, My Aviary, written at this window, The Battle of Bunker Hill, and Dorothy Q., written to the portrait of my great-grandmother which you see on the wall there. All these I have a liking for, and when I speak of the
374 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
poems I like best there are two others that ought to be included—Bill and Joe and The Last Leaf. I think these are among my best."
"What is the history of The Chambered Nautilus?" Edward asked.
"It has none," came the reply, "it wrote itself. So, too, did The One-Hoss Shay. That was one of those random conceptions that gallop through the brain, and that you catch by the bridle. I caught it and reined it. That is all."
Holmes was undoubtedly right in regarding The Chambered Nautilus as his most finished poem. In this estimate, Whittier joined by remarking that the poem was "booked for immortality." The last stanza of the poem maintains the New England tradition that a poem is of little worth unless it teaches some moral lesson. But the nobility of its conception and the beauty of its expression, makes it one of the most pleasing stanzas as well as one of the most quotable bits in all of our American literature.
THE CHAMBERED NAUTILUS
This is the ship of pearl, which, poets feign, Sails the unshadowed main,— The venturous bark that flings On the sweet summer wind its purpled wings In gulfs enchanted, where the Siren sings, And coral reefs lie bare, Where the cold sea-maids rise to sun their streaming hair.
Its webs of living gauze no more unfurl; Wrecked is the ship of pearl! And every chambered cell, Where its dim dreaming life was wont to dwell, As the frail tenant shaped his growing shell, Before thee lies revealed,— Its irised ceiling rent, its sunless crypt unsealed!
Year after year beheld the silent toil That spread his lustrous coil; Still, as the spiral grew, He left the past year's dwelling for the new, Stole with soft step its shining archway through, Built up its idle door, Stretched in his last-found home, and knew the old no more.
Thanks for the heavenly message brought by thee, Child of the wandering sea, Cast from her lap, forlorn! From thy dead lips a clearer note is born Than ever Triton blew from wreathed horn! While on mine ear it rings, Through the deep caves of thought I hear a voice that sings:—
376 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
"Your name may flaunt a titled trail Proud as a cockerel's rainbow tail, And mine as brief appendix wear As Tam O'Shanter's luckless mare; Today, old friend, remember still That I am Joe and you are Bill.
"You've won the great world's envied prize, And grand you look in people's eyes, With HON. And LL.D., In big brave letters, fair to see,— Your fist, old fellow! Off they go!— How are you, Bill?- How are you, Joe?"
The three stanzas included will give a definite idea of the spirit and trend of the poem. We suggest, that if time permits, the entire poem be read to the class.
The Old Man Dreams was written in 1854. The assumption is that the responsibilities of life are cast off and an hour of youthful joy indulged in. We also include this poem that you may feel the youthful soul that permeates it.
"Oh for one hour Of youthful joy! Give back my twentieth spring! I'd rather laugh, a bright-haired boy, Than reign, a gray-haired king.
"Off with the spoils of wrinkled age! Away with Learning's crown! Tear out life's Wisdom-written page, And dash its trophies down!
"One moment let my life-blood stream From boyhood's fount of flame! Give me one giddy, reeling dream Of life all love and fame!
"My listening angel heard the prayer, And, calmly smiling, said, 'If I but touch thy silvered hair Thy hasty wish hath sped.
"'But is there nothing in thy track, To bid thee fondly stay, While the swift seasons hurry back To find the wished-for day?'
"Ah, truest soul of womankind! Without thee what were life? One bliss I cannot leave behind: I'll take—my—precious—wife!
"The angel took a sapphire pen And wrote in rainbow dew, The man would be a boy again, And be a husband too!
GUIDE LESSONS FOR SEPTEMBER
"And is there nothing yet unsaid, Before the change appears? Remember, all their gifts have fled With those dissolving years"
"Why, yes;' for memory would recall My fond paternal joys; 'I could not bear to leave them all— I'll take—my—girl—and—boys.'
"The smiling angel dropped his pen— 'Why, this will never do; The man would be a boy again, And be a father too!'
"And so I laughed,—my laughter woke The household with its noise,— And wrote my dream, when morning broke, To please the gray-haired boys."
THE BOYS
Has there any old fellow got mixed with the boys? If there has, take him out, without making a noise. Hang the Almanac's cheat and the Catalogue's spite! Old Time is a liar! We're twenty tonight!
We're Twenty! We're Twenty! Who says we are more? He's tipsy,—young jackanapes!—show him the door! "Gray temples at twenty?"—Yes! White if you please; Where the snow-flakes fall thickest there's nothing can freeze!
Was it snowing I spoke of? Excuse the mistake! Look close,—you will see not a sign of a flake! We want some new garlands for those we have shed,— And these are white roses in place of the red.
We've a trick, we young fellows, you may have been told, Of talking (in public) as if we were old:— That boy we call "Doctor," and this we call "Judge;" It's a neat little fiction,—of course it's all fudge.
That fellow's the "Speaker,"—the one on the right; "Mr. Mayor," my young one, how are you tonight? That's our "Member of Congress," we say when we chaff; There's the "Reverend"? What's his name?—don't make me laugh.
That boy with the grave mathematical look Made believe he had written a wonderful book, And the ROYAL SOCIETY thought it was true! So they chose him right in; a good joke it was, too!
There's a boy, we pretend, with a three-decker brain, That could harness a team with a logical chain; When he spoke for our manhood in syllabled fire, We called him "The Justice," but now he's "The Squire."
And there's a nice youngster of excellent pith,— Fate tried to conceal him by naming him Smith; But he shouted a song for the brave and the free,— Just read on his medal, "My country," "of thee!"
380 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
gone the demoralizing strain of a long period of failure and misfortune. This process of losing health and hope and friends is usually a gradual and insidious one, brought about by a sequence of disheartening events. Therefore, the building-up process, the renewing of the physical and mental powers cannot be accomplished in a moment. Because of the growth of the desired positive values is slow, and often meets with apparent failure for a time, superficial treatment cannot be effective. Intensive and tireless and prolonged effort is needed to effect the desired changes in individuals and the forces that influence their development.
It is impossible, of course, to outline a general plan of treatment for certain types of social ailments. The plan to rehabilitate delinquents, for instance, cannot be the same for each one. What course is advisable to follow must be determined by the individual personality, his physical and mental and emotional make-up, his background, his capabilities, and the resources that the home and the community have to offer. Just such information and understanding is needed also to guide the future of any person who is in difficulty—whether he is one who has failed economically or one who evades the responsibility of caring for his family. Because treatment cannot be administered by a prescribed formula, the task of aiding people who are not succeeding is extremely difficult. It is possible, only, to indicate certain ends that may be attained, and a general method that may be used in accomplishing these ends.
It is essential in planning a course of social treatment to determine, quite definitely, what achievement is possible in a particular situation. Serious thought must be given to both the handicaps, or liabilities, that have stood in the way of normal adjustment, and also to the potentialities, or assets, that indicate possibilities for growth and development. The handicaps should be removed, if possible, and if not, they should be understood as permanent disadvantages to the individual. At the same time the potentialities of the situation should be developed. The individual should be restored to health if he is ill, should be trained for suitable employment if he has met with industrial disability, should be made to assume responsibilities if he has been evading them, should be relieved of worry and strain if the burden he has been carrying has been too heavy, should be connected with friends and relatives and church if he has become estranged from them during his period of distress. The process of treatment is the elimination of undesirable elements in the situation and the fostering and strengthening of the powers and traits and connections that are desirable.
Perhaps the treatment administered in the following simple illustration will show the processes involved. A woman who had
GUIDE LESSONS FOR SEPTEMBER 381
been ill for some time, was sure that she would not recover, so wanted to place her eight-year-old boy in a good home, so that she would have no further worry about his future. After some study and interpretation and treatment, the child was kept with the mother, but only after certain handicaps had been removed and certain possibilities for adjustment had been created. The handicaps to be removed were the mother's ill health; her discouragement, and her strong conviction that her plan was her only recourse. The assets in the situation on which the treatment was based, were the assurance, given by the physician, after an examination, that the mother's health could be restored, her willingness to be guided by what would be best for the child, and her strong desire to have him with her. So her consent was finally gained to have the boy placed temporarily, instead of permanently, and with renewed hope she submitted herself to medical treatment which resulted in a gradual recovery of health and courage, and later in her economic independence.
Questions and Problems
1. Explain in some detail the three processes used in solving a social problem.
2. Why is treatment the final test? Why is it often discouraging?
3. Why is the treatment of a juvenile offender likely to be more successful than the treatment of an older offender?
4. Why is an understanding of the mental and physical and emotional make-up of a person necessary, when treatment is being planned for him?
5. Show how the plan in the incident might have failed, if the person interested in the mother had not been skillful in changing mental attitudes.
Teachers' Topic for September
(Third Week in September)
Household Arts
"She looketh well to the ways of her household and eateth not the bread of idleness. "Her children arise and call her blessed, her husband also; and he praiseth her." Proverbs, 31:27, 28.
1. Discuss the exchange of ideas in regard to fine needlework, crocheting, knitting, netting, lace-making, etc. Preserving and canning fruits, meats and vegetables. The advantage of displaying work at state and county fairs.
You would go across the continent for such an educational feast as this. And here you have it—right at your door!
Courses and lectures by men of world renown. College credit, with special classes for certification of teachers in service or training.
"AMERICA'S GREATEST SUMMER FACULTY"
Special faculty includes: Allee, Chicago; Angell, Yale; Blackwelder, Stanford; Branson, N. Carolina; Carruth, Stanford; Cowles, Chicago; Franzen, California; Knappen, U. of Kansas; Merk, Harvard; McClain, Detroit; McCollum, Johns Hopkins; Reed, Ohio State U.; Shearer, Long Beach; Thorndike, Columbia; Turner, Harvard; Wood, Columbia.
Special lecturers: Wm. G. Anderson, Liberty Hyde Bailey, David Starr Jordan, Shailer Matthews, E. A. Steiner, A. E. Winship and John Adams of London U.
Unique recreation features and excursions to world-famed scenic places. (Special faculty and lecturers to serve through entire first 6 weeks.)
1st term: June 9 to July 18. 2nd term: July 21 to Aug. 29. Register June 6 or 7. Fee $25 for 6 or 12 weeks. Write for Catalog.
Utah Agricultural College Logan Utah
There is No Substitute for ELECTRIC COOKING
UTAH POWER & LIGHT CO. EFFICIENT PUBLIC SERVICE
Compare the Pages of The Deseret News with those of any other paper. Notice that while the paper is clean and fit for any child to read it is also interesting and informative in the highest sense—And you get "TODAY'S NEWS TODAY"
BEST IN THE MARKET WILL LAST A LIFE TIME 36 GLASSES IN EACH TRAY
RECOMMENDED BY PATRONS. REFERENCES FURNISHED
Made especially for L. D. S. Churches. And successfully used in Utah and Intermountain region, also in all Missions in the United States, Europe, and Pacific Islands. Basic metal, Nickel Silver. Heavily plated with Solid Silver.
SIMPLE, SANITARY, DURABLE
Satisfaction guaranteed. Inquiries cheerfully answered
THE LATEST ACKNOWLEDGMENT
Bishop's Office, Bern, Idaho, May 2, 1921.
"I am in receipt of the Individual Sacrament Set, consisting of four trays and the proper number of glasses. Everything arrived in good condition. We are very pleased with it. I take this occasion to thank you for your kindness."
BUREAU OF INFORMATION Temple Block Salt Lake City
Glazier and Taylor HOSIERY COMPANY 33 EAST BROADWAY
A Store Dealing in Quality Hosiery and Underwear Exclusively
Heavy Silk Full-Fashioned, all colors A wonderful hose for wear Per Pair $2.00 Box of Three Pairs $5.75
Silk Semi-Fashioned, all colors, beautiful and durable Per Pair $1.50 Box of Three Pairs $4.25
Silk with Extra Stretch Elastic Top, the Comfort Stocking Per Pair $1.65
Pure Silk Semi-Fashioned, very durable All Colors Per Pair $1.05 Box of Three Pairs $3.00
MAIL ORDERS PREPAID
A Book of Poems "The Beautiful Valley of Utah" By Mrs. J. Long, 50c per copy. Eureka, Utah, Box 129. When ordering mention Relief Society Magazine.
100 Envelopes $1.50 Delivered postpaid to your home. Printed with your name and address in fine blue plate Gothic. (Not more than 3 lines). Send Money with order. Write plainly.
Universal Stationery Supply Co. 315—24th Street OGDEN, UTAH
Pierce's Pork and Beans, always ready, insure a healthful and nourishing meal.
Everlastingly backed by THE UTAH CANNING CO., OGDEN, UTAH
To the Agents and Friends of the Magazine who are Taking Subscriptions:
It was unanimously decided at the October Conference by the officers and members present rather than raise the price of the magazine, we would ask the agents and friends for the present to secure subscriptions without the customary 10 per cent discount. We call your attention to the fact that many of the subscriptions received so far have had the percentage deducted, which is not in accordance with the general understanding of the Magazine management and officers present at the conference.
Will you kindly give this matter your attention and give these facts as wide publicity as possible in order that the subscriptions which we receive hereafter, will be accompanied with the full amount of the price of the magazine, which is $1.00.
Sincerely, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE.
BLUE PINE Olive Oil is the "fruit" of the finest ripe French Olives grown. Selected with infinite care, delivered to you in air-tight containers that insure the utmost in purity and sweetness. High in food content, Blue Pine Olive Oil is deliciously good in dressings and salads. For any Olive Oil use, be sure to keep a supply of Blue Pine.
Other BLUE PINE products A SCOWCROFT PRODUCT
THE Relief Society Magazine
VOL. XI AUGUST, 1924 NO. 8
CONTENTS
Green River: Frontispiece Her Things Claire Stewart Boyer 383 Olivia Pratt Driggs 385 Hard Up 393 Eliza Roxey Snow Prize Memorial Poem 394 Editorial—Twentieth Century Heresy 395 Religion in Russia 395 Utah, a Mecca of Education 395 The Stricken Family at the White House 395 John Bennett's Divorce Ivy Williams Stone 396 Not Understood Thomas Bracken 408 Conference on Prevention of Causes of War 409 The Henry Car 413 Isabel Wardell Wright 415 When the Alien Needs a Friend 415 Notes from the Field Amy Brown Lyman 417 Guide Lessons for October 419 Teachers' Topic for October 427
Organ of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints Room 29 Bishop's Bldg. Salt Lake City, Utah $1.00 a Year—Single Copy, 10c Canada and Foreign, $1.25 a Year—15c Single Copy
Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah
What Does Mother Think?
A hundred times a day Mother's judgement is called for regarding problems of great importance to the peace and well-being of the home.
Mother must have at her command a knowledge of foods, of clothing, of deportment, even of politics and religion. Training young women for the problems of life is one of the responsibilities accepted by the Brigham Young University.
The Fall Term Begins September 15. A catalogue is yours for the asking.
The Brigham Young University PROVO - UTAH
Temple and Burial Clothes Complete Suits For Men and Women Variety of Grades and Prices Prompt and Careful Attention to Mail—Telephone—Telegraph Orders
Open Daily, 9 A. M.—5 P. M.
General Board Relief Society 23 Bishop's Building Salt Lake City, Utah Phone Wasatch 3286
THE UTAH CHAPTERS OF THE AMERICAN RED CROSS are planning a state conference to be held in Salt Lake City August 30th. Dr. Thomas E. Green of the National Headquarters, Washington D. C., will be the chief speaker at the conference. Dr. Green will speak at the regular service in the Tabernacle Sunday, August 31st and it is desired that all chapter delegates plan to hear Dr. Green at that time.
W. M. McCONAHAY THE JEWELER 64 So. Main Phone Was. 1821 Salt Lake City, Utah
When Shopping Mention Relief Society Magazine
Ladies of the Relief Society and Other Organizations
Order your flowers from the
Ideal Floral Company Fresh Cut Flowers Every Morning 38 South Main Phone Wasatch 3414 Night Phone Hyland 5303-W
The Doors of Opportunity Open When You Become a Trained Nurse
Salt Lake County General Hospital Training School for nurses is a registered school, and gives a thorough course in Surgery, Medicine, Obstetrics, Pediatrics, Contagious Diseases and Tuberculosis. Girls from 18 to 35 years of age, with two years of high school or its equivalent desired to apply. Send for application card and catalog.
LAMINEX DOORS Will not shrink, swell or warp
MORRISON-MERRILL & CO. "The Lumbermen"
THE MARK OF RELIABILITY
Every door carries our standard sizes and styles replacement guarantee carried in stock
TIMBER ROCK PAPER FOR BUILDING PURPOSES
IMPROVED L. D. S. GARMENTS
The "Temple Brand" garments are handled only by leading dealers, if you cannot get just what you want select it from this list and send order direct to us. Samples submitted on request. We prepay postage to all parts of the United States.
GARMENTS WITH STRINGS Style Price Style Price No. 75 Med. Heavy Cotton $2.50 No. 15 Extra Spe. Flat Weave 1.50 No. 3 Domestic Lisle 1.75 No. 25 Double Back Lt. Wt. 1.85
NEW STYLE WITH BUTTONS AND LONG OR SHORT SLEEVES For Ladies: Style Price No. 1 Flat Weave Cot. $.95 Super No. 2 Ribbed super cot 1.25 No. 815 Flat weave 1.50 No. 803 Ribbed Lt. Wt. 1.65 No. 850 Lisle Gauge 2.50 No. 862 Merc. Gauge Lt. Wt. 2.75
For Men: Style Price No. 903 Ribbed Lt. Wt. $1.75 No. 950 Lisle Lt. Wt. 2.75 No. 915 Flat Weave 1.75 No. 925 Ribbed Med. Wt. 2.00 No. 975 Med. Heavy Cot. 2.25 No. 9175 Med. Half Wool 3.50
SAVE AGENT'S COMMISSION—BUY DIRECT FROM FACTORY
Salt Lake Knitting Store 70 Main Street Salt Lake City, Utah
In sending orders mention Magazine
Ask your dealer for Z. C. M. I. Factory Made
Kiddies' Allovers DUTCH CUT
They are the famous Mountaineer Brand in dark blue, light blue, striped and khaki
Mothers—they are just what you need for the little tots—and the kiddies like them too
Salt Lake City, Utah
GREEN RIVER
THE Relief Society Magazine
Vol. XI AUGUST, 1924 No. 8
Olivia Pratt Driggs
Olivia Pratt Driggs, oldest daughter of Parley P. Pratt, was born in the city of Manchester, England, June 1, 1841. Her father, who was one of the first apostles in this dispensation, after providentially escaping from prison in Missouri, in 1839, where he with others had spent eight months without trial for their religion, went with other members of the Twelve to England the next year. They located in Manchester where her father commenced the publication of a periodical called the Millennial Star, which has continued until the present time. Parley P. Pratt was the first editor of this magazine. The beginning number was issued in May, 1840, and the following inspiring poem written by him especially for the introduction of this periodical appeared on its cover. It was also the first hymn printed in the L. D. S. Hymn book that was published at that time:
The morning breaks, the shadows flee; Lo! Zion's standard is unfurled! The dawning of a brighter day Majestic rises on the world.
The clouds of error disappear Before the rays of truth, divine; The glory, bursting from afar, Wide o'er the nations soon will shine.
The Gentile fullness now comes in, And Israel's blessings are at hand; Lo! Judah's remnant, cleansed from sin; Shall in their promised Canaan stand.
Jehovah speaks! Let earth give ear, And Gentile nations turn and live! His mighty arm is making bare, His covenant people to receive.
386 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
Angels from heaven, and truth from earth Have met, and both have record borne; Thus Zion's light is bursting forth, To bring her ransomed children home.
Upon learning that his family in New York was dangerously sick with scarlet fever, Brother Pratt, acting on the advice of the members of his quorum, returned to America. After their recovery he, again sailed for England, taking his family along, where it was understood he would remain for several years as editor and publisher, as well as to carry on missionary work. The group included his wife Mary Ann, her daughter, Mary Ann Stearns, by a former husband, his sons Parley and Nathan, and his wife's sister, Olive Frost. After a long and tiresome voyage, they landed at Liverpool in October, 1840. These two sisters, Mary Ann Pratt and Olive Frost, were the first missionary women in this dispensation to cross the ocean in the interest of the Church.
Manchester now became the family home, and it was while
OLIVIA PRATT DRIGGS 387
they were occupied in their missionary activities, a year later, that little Olivia was born. The Pratt family remained in England until October, 1842, when they returned to America, landing at New Orleans in January, 1843, having been on the water fifteen weeks. As they were going up the Mississippi river on a steamboat, Olivia's little sister Susan was born. Because of the frozen condition of the upper Mississippi, the family stopped at Chester, III., a little town seventy miles southeast of St. Louis, where they spent the remainder of the winter. Late the following spring, they moved on to St. Louis and from there they were taken to Nauvoo on a small steamer called the Maid of Iowa, commanded by Captain Dan Jones, of Nauvoo. This boat belonged to the Saints, the Prophet Joseph being part owner. At Nauvoo they were met on the docks by the Prophet Joseph who carried little Olivia in his arms up the river bank to his home where they all received the usual welcome and "God bless you, Brother Parley."
Nauvoo was the family home until the expulsion of the Saints several years later. They lived in a large, two-story brick house facing west toward the Mississippi river, and located on the corner of Young and Wells streets, just one block east of the temple square. The children watched the walls of that edifice as they gradually ascended, and amused themselves running around on the foundation and among the big stones and work benches. They knew the workmen, and the hardships under which they labored; among them were Brother Player, Miles Romney, and others. The men were so distributed that there was one man to a stone, cutting the half moons, suns, and other figures.
Olivia's mother was an active member of the first Relief Society which was organized by Joseph Smith, with Emma Smith as president. At the time of the destruction of the Nauvoo Expositor, the children picked up some of the printing type that was thrown into the street, and the older ones spelled all their names with it. Some of this type is in the possession of members of the family today. The older Pratt children attended school in the Masonic Temple. During their sojourn in Nauvoo, the Prophet Joseph was a frequent visitor at the Pratt home, and Olivia remembered that he used to take her and the other children on his lap and amuse them. When the martyrdom came, with all its horrors, together with its accompanying excitement, the children received such lasting impressions that they were vivid all during the remainder of their lives.
388 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
One day Brother Joseph Fielding was driving his big team and wagon west on Young Street, and as he neared the Pratt home little Olivia ran out in front of the horses and was not seen by the driver until she was found between the horses, when he rescued her. The family was in Nauvoo at the time of the battle, and at one time the citizens of Nauvoo stored forty kegs of gun powder in the large cellar under the Pratt home. At the time of the expulsion, the Saints were given three days in which to get out of the state of Illinois, and by the end of the third day the women and children were camped on the river bank in the sand just opposite Montrose. The ferry was a flat boat which was towed up the river by horses then it was carried across by the force of the stream, a rather slow process. Sister Pratt and the children were quartered in an improvised tent which she had made water-proof. One day at the sound of fife and drum, they discovered that a company of troops had halted near by. Upon seeing Mrs. Pratt, the officer said, "You're a pretty set, ain't you?" Sister Pratt replied, "Gentlemen, it's your day now, but bye and bye it may be ours." "Shut up," he said, "or I'll have you placed under guard." "I don't fear you at all," was Sister Pratt's rejoinder. One man in the gang called to little Olivia, who was a curly-headed child of five years, and asked, "Where's your Pa?" As she ran out, Mary Ann, her sister, went along to protect her. "Where are you going?—To California?" he continued. "Well, here's a bit piece [12½c.]. It will pay your way out there," he spoke as he threw the coin to Olivia. These children did not see dime or nickel coins until after they came to Utah, as few had been made at that time.
After crossing the river, tents were pitched on the Iowa side where food became scarce. But droves of quail flew near by, and were so tame that the people had no difficulty in catching them for food. One day a steam boat came up the river from St. Louis loaded with provisions that had been donated by the good people of that city. When it reached the river bank, a representative of each exiled family was sent for, and the provisions were generously distributed according to the number in each family. Mary Ann, now a girl of fourteen, was sent by her mother and received corn meal, bacon, dried apples, and other much needed articles. Late one night, little Martha Pratt, aged three years, daughter of William and Martha Shumway Pratt, died in a tent from ague. They secured a coffin in Montrose, and the next day the body was taken across the river in a sail boat for burial. Mary Ann went along to show them where the Pratt family graves were located.
OLIVIA PRATT DRIGGS 389
Several times the boat almost tipped over. They were met on the Nauvoo side by a brother with a team, he having rowed across earlier in the day. The remains were placed by the side of the other Pratt graves in their private lot not far from their recently abandoned brick house. An accurate map of the place is now in possession of the family.
Nauvoo was still and quiet. The mob had all gone. There was not a soul to be seen anywhere. Six weeks after all this excitement, Sister Pratt and her children recrossed the river and remained in Nauvoo all winter. With John S. Fullmer's family, they lived in the house which had been the home of John D. Lee. This was not far from Heber C. Kimball's large brick house. As soon as spring opened, they moved east to the state of Maine, their old home, where they stayed for about eighteen months, when they came west again, locating in St. Louis. It was at this place that Olivia and her little brother Moroni L., who was born in Nauvoo, attended school for the first time. Their next temporary home was Kanesville, now Council Bluffs, where the children again attended school. On May 10, 1852, they started across the plains arriving in Salt Lake City four months later; and the following winter Olivia attended school in the Fourteenth ward assembly rooms.
After the cruel assassination of Brother Pratt, the family moved to Battle Creek, in Utah county, and made their home with Brother Oscar and Mary Ann Stearns Winters. At this time the houses in this region were scattered along the state road from American Fork to Provo bench. The Indian War, however, waged by Chief Walker, forced the people to build a fort which is now the town of Pleasant Grove.
On the 15th of February, 1857, Olivia was married to Benjamin Woodbury Driggs, a promising young man of that community, the ceremony being performed by Elder Orson Hyde. Brother Driggs had also spent his youthful days in Nauvoo, where his father, Shoduck F. Driggs, lived and maintained a large wagon shop. At the fitting out for the "move," Shoduck F. Driggs built dozens of wagons, the iron work of which was done by Martin H. Pick. This young bridegroom had recently returned from southern California, where he had been employed by Amasa Lyman and Charles C. Rich. B. W. Driggs became one of the leading business men of Utah county. He was an officer in the militia and took an active part in the Black Hawk and other Indian troubles. B. W. and Olivia made their permanent home in Pleasant Grove. To them twelve children were born, six of whom survive them. In the late 80's B. W. Driggs, Jr., and Don Carlos Driggs,
EDITORIAL
Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah
Motto—Charity Never Faileth
THE GENERAL BOARD
MRS. CLARISSA SMITH WILLIAMS President MRS. JENNIE BRIMHALL KNIGHT First Counselor MRS. LOUISE YATES ROBISON Second Counselor MRS. AMY BROWN LYMAN General Secretary and Treasurer
Mrs. Emma A. Empey Mrs. Lotta Paul Baxter Mrs. Ethel Reynolds Smith Mrs. Jeanette A. Hyde Mrs. Julia A. Child Mrs. Barbara Howell Richards Miss Sarah M. McLelland Mrs. Cora L. Bennion Mrs. Rosannah C. Irvine Mrs. Annie Wells Cannon Mrs. Julia A. F. Lund Miss Alice Louise Reynolds Mrs. Lalene H. Hart Mrs. Amy Whipple Evans Mrs. Lizzie Thomas Edward, Music Director Miss Edna Coray, Organist
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
Editor CLARISSA SMITH WILLIAMS Associate Editor ALICE LOUISE REYNOLDS Business Manager JEANETTE A. HYDE Assistant Manager AMY BROWN LYMAN
Room 29, Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah
Vol. XI AUGUST, 1924 No. 8
Twentieth Century Heresy
The Literary Digest is of the opinion that the trial of Bishop William Montgomery Brown for heresy has attracted as much attention as the oil investigation in Washington. Newspaper correspondents, we are told, were present from coast to coast, because of the unusual importance of the case. The Latter-day Saints, we are inclined to think, would feel that the Church was perfectly justified in charging Bishop Brown with teaching heresy. Perhaps Bishop Brown was right in some of his minor positions, but in his major positions, and by his major positions we refer to his attitude towards the divinity of Christ's birth and mission, and other allied matters. We feel that the church was entirely justified in dropping him from their list of church officials. We are gratified, though, that the punishment meted out to him is so different to that meted out to persons accused of heresy in former periods of the world's history. It is very much to be regretted that so-called preachers of the gospel today deny such fundamentals as the divinity of birth and mission of Christ, and the resurrection following the crucifixion. In the light of the discussion that is taking place, at this time, all over the world, in relation to these matters, we appreciate the wisdom that led to the emphasis placed on testimony bearing at the last two General Conferences of the Church. There is perhaps no more important thing to do these days, EDITORIAL. 398 by way of spiritual education and encouragement, than to bear testimony to the great truths that Jesus is the Son of God; that he was born of the Virgin Mary; that he was called to his divine mission by the Father; that the Father exercised divine watch-care and guidance over him, from the hour of his baptism, and the descending of the Holy Ghost upon him, until his crucifixion; and that he is resurrected, and that in conjunction with the Father he is working for the salvation of mankind here on earth. Again the Latter-day Saints have cause to rejoice, that in this latter day so much of truth has been revealed to them that they need not stand and hesitate and wonder which is the path, nor question whether Bishop Brown's stand be correct or incorrect. They know what the revealed word of the Lord is on this matter, and that is their guide day by day.. Religion in Russia It would seem, from trustworthy information, that the Communist or Bolshevik element of the Russian Government is antagonistic to many of the most vital teachings of the Bible and the revealed Word concerning our Lord and Savior.: The following graphic bit of history related by Senator William H. King, at the funeral service of his sister-in-law—Mrs. Samuel A. King, is to the point. In one of the cities of Russia the Soviet officials called a meeting to discuss religion, to which the Communist leaders and priests were invited. One of the Bolshevik speakers explained—the Christ myth, attempting to show that the Savior was but a man and had not been resurrected— And concluded his speech by declaring that—all superstitions concerning Christ should be put away—and shouting—long live the Communist Internationale. J: Long live the Communist Internationale. There was liberal applause. A Jewish speaker attacked the stories concerning the birth of Christ, and in conclusion declared "that Mary was but a woman of the streets." There was less applause. A priest then arose, standing silently before the people, and made the sign of the cross, It was Easter week, and the priest pronounced the Easter greeting: "Christ is risen." The multitude swayed toward him by way of reply, and said, "He is risen indeed." The priest repeated, Christ is risen," and with a mighty response the audience replied, "He is risen indeed!" "What more is there to say? Let us to our homes," answered the priest after a moment of silence. Thus ended the meeting, 304 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Utah, a Mecca of Ediadtian At this writing three summer schools of the state are in full swing. They are respectively; the Agricultural College summer school at Logan, the summer school of the University of Utah, at Salt Lake City, and the Brigham Young University summer school at Provo. The largest of these is the Utah Agricultural College summer school, with an enrollment of 1500, including regular and special students. The Agricultural College has brought to the state this season an extraordinary number of noted educators from both the East and the West. The University of Utah has surpassed its enrollment of last year, and has a number of guest professors and special lecturers from leading institutions from other parts of the country. One feature relating to the guest professors at the University of Utah, especially gratifying, is that it has called back two native Utahns Dr. John Sundwall, on the faculty of the University of Michigan, and Dr. Horace Secrist on the faculty of Northwestern University. Both of these young men received part or all of their preparatory training for college here in the state, and both of them have been regular members of faculties of local institutions. Dr. Sundwall was at one time on the staff of the University of Utah, and Dr. Secrist on the staff of the Brigham Young University. _ The Brigham Young University has surpassed its summer school enrollment of last year and has already more students than it can accommodate for the summer schools at Aspen Grove, the second term. This summer it has a group of guest professors from well known Universities East and West, as well as Dr. Adam S. Bennion, Superintendent. Of Church Schools, and Mrs. Maud eee Jacob, head of the English department of the Provo High chool. We wish to draw particular attention to three things in this recital of facts. First, that the Agricultural College, in its summer school, has brought a good many men of educational renown into our state who would not have come otherwise, thus introducing our state, with all its educational facilities and beauty, to educational leaders of the first rank. Secondly, it has given opportunity for our Utah students to come face to face with these professional men. This is just as true of the University of Utah summer school and the Brigham Young University summer school, as it is of the Agricultural College summer school, the point of vantage being with the Agricultural College, because it has brought into the state the greatest number of guest professors. Our second point is in relation to bringing home our Utah boys so that we may all realize where they stand professionally, and what they are accomplishing in the educational world. The last point we EDITORIAL — 395 wish to emphasize, and perhaps this is the most important, is that although the Agricultural College has a student body of 1,500, it has not deminished the enrollment of the summer schools in the other two college centers. It speaks volumes for the educational spirit that prevails in this intermountain region that three summer schools may be held in a region, comparatively speaking, sparsely inhabited, and yet be so eminently successful. This matter should be of great interest to women, when we take into consideration the fact that a very large number of the students in these summer schools, in all probability the majority, are women. The Stricken Family at the White House As we dictate this note of sympathy, the funeral service for Calvin Coolidge, Jr., is being held at the White House. ) A year ago now we were writing a note of sympathy to Mrs. Harding, and in the early spring our hearts were drawn out to Mrs. Wilson. It seems that the "Grim Reaper" has paid all too frequent visits to the haunts of the mighty within the last year. We do not recall, during any period of our lives the frequency of death to occupants of the White House that this last year has brought. Every mother's heart in the land throbs in sympathy with Mrs. Coolidge, and every father's heart beats a dirge of sorrow for the President. May the richest blessings of our Father rest upon the family of our Chief Executive to comfort and heal the wounds made by so untimely a death of so promising a youth. Editor's Note: The poem by Claire Stewart Boyer; the sketch om the life of Oliva Pratt Driggs, and the story "John Bennett's Divorce" were designed for the July issue, but because of insufficient room were crowded out. John Bennett's Divorce By Ivy Williams Stone At twenty-eight, Mrs. Ruth Bennett was the head of the millinery section in a Broadway department store. She was respected by salesmen, loved by her clerks, valued by her employers. But her only claim to matrimony seemed to be in her wedding ring, for her husband never materialized. While Ruth Bennett catered to temperamental fashion, John Bennett toiled on a remote ranch somewhere "out west." "You've got a visitor, Mrs, Bennett," announced a deal one bright April morning, as Ruth sorted the department mail. "She looks like she's sneaked off Ellis Island, but she says she has come all the way from Buenna, Idaho. You ought to see her coat— "Did you say Buenna, Idaho?" interrupted Mrs. Bennett, in a tone neither crisp nor business-like, but betraying sudden agitation. '"Buenna," she repeated, adding under her breath,. "that's John's postoffice." She turned to her desk to hide rising emotion. "T'll see her in fifteen minutes,' she added. Ruth Bennett did not devote the interval of time to her mail or her important orders. While she automatically fingered the tempting renewal of contract which the firm offered her, she made a rapid mental survey of the preceding six years of her life. She recalled the circumstances which today found her husband alone on a ranch in Idaho, while she held a position of responsibility in New York City. She recalled their marriage; John's enthusiasm over the ''call of the west;” their removal to the arid farm lands of Idaho, youthfully certain that a new Utopia lay before them. She remembered how John had gloried in the great future he visualized, while her sensitive nature shrunk from the hardships and necessary privations of pioneering life. While John had tramped joyously behind his plow or sung as he grubbed cedars, Ruth had loathed the silence, the hot winds, the insufferable canned food and stale water, which were a part of the arid valley. While John had built sheds and fenced his homestead with cedars of his own cutting, his wife had resented the necessity of cedar chips, and the smoky, ill-smelling bacon which was their main fare. She saw no future in the gray stretches of sagebrush. No release from the monotonous toil and routine. Her rosecolored dreams were shattered, and she begrudged every day spent in the small, dirt-roofed cabin. After the first winter, John, realizing her unhappiness, had let her go back home for a change, telling her to return when she JOHN BENNETT'S DIVORCE — 397 felt "rested." The rest had lengthened into a year, and Ruth waited for John to send for her. As he did not do this she had gone to work, and now six years had passed since her glad farewell to the land of sagebrush and squirrels. Six years in which. She had attained a position of responsibility, had saved most of her earnings; had grown more lonely in the rushing crowds than she had ever been on the homestead, and had come to live upon the coming of John's letters. But of late these had become infrequent and strained, betraying the lack of common interest. "I wonder,” mused Mrs. Bennett to herself, fingering the contract, "if John still grubs cedars and hauls water. I wonder if this visitor brings a message from him. I've had no letter since Christmas, and it is almost Easter. I— Her reverie was interrupted by the approach of her visitor, whose appearance beggared the clerk's description. A faded green. Coat of antique style nearly covered a dark blue, "hobble type" skirt. Her old beaver hat was adorned with a rollicking owl; her hair was drawn into a tight, unlovely knot. Her feet were shod in heel'ess comfort. Only her hands and intelligent eyes, clear, gray, and searching, asserted her right to belong to the present generation. "You're Miss Bennett, I could tell easy. I've saw your picture so often," began the caller dispensing with all formality. "John couldn't nuver claim you fur his sister, though, far as looks is concerned. You don't favor him a mite. Guess' you both took after different sides of the family." She was delving into a gray telescope as she spoke and knowing the custom of certain country people of using Miss and Mrs. Interchangeably, Ruth did not hasten to correct her guest's error. ' "O here 'tis! I like to thought I'd lost it!" The young woman rose, flushed but triumphant, and extended an envelope addressed to Miss Ruth Bennett, courtesy Miss Madge Paine. With the apparent guilelessness of a child, Miss Paine's gaze wandered about the tiny office, while Ruth, unheeding, read her letter. Dear Ruth:—Since you have stayed away six years, I am about to divorce you on the grounds of desertion. The bearer of this 'note, Miss Madge Paine, is a young lady of our valley who has shown me many a kindness during the years I have lived alone. She has assumed of her own accord that you are my sister. Please do not inform her otherwise. I shall apply for divorce during her absence, and when I am free, I intend to marry her. She has money, please superintend the purchase of her trousseau and send her back with a blessing for us both. Sincerely, JoHN BENNETT. Ruth read and reread her letter in rigid silence. So, this was the reason for John's recent silence, for the dearth of letters during the past year. And this was to be the end of her years of hard 398. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE work, of her hoarded savings! Divorce at twenty-eight! And all because she could not endure salt pork and beans, because she was not fashioned of sturdy, pioneering stock! She had always intended to return—for what else had she been so diligent and saving? She glanced stealthily at the woman who had taken her place, who had alienated John's affections, and a wave of shame and resentment surged through her that such a vulgar woman could replace Ruth Bennett, the cultured and refined, in the affections of any man. "A fine type from a fine state," she muttered bitterly. But what else could she expect, when John was willing to divorce her? Surely his refinement was gone; he had become a mere dolt. At the thought of the indignity John was thrusting upon her, Ruth's fine, inherent instincts rose in protest. She glanced again at her visitor. That young lady was engaged in trying the effect of Ruth's new spring wraps. Under cover of her preoccupation, Ruth transferred her wedding ring to her right hand. John should never guess the fulness of the wound he had inflicted. Pride should hide her hurt, she would play the game! She glanced gratefully at the contract upon her desk. For two more years, at least, work would prove the healing balm. How grateful she felt that 'she had not rejected it, as she had intended. She would work and succeed, and John should live to regret his decision. But even as she built an armor of achievement about her wounded pride, Ruth wondered if John had aged; if he had succeeded as he had dreamed; if he still lived in the tiny cabin. She wondered if he would continue to grease harnesses on long winter nights, while his new wife sat opposite him, patching the dusty grain sacks. She ought to feel grateful, rather than chagrined, to be 'spared such an existence. But cold, reasonable arguments were insufficient balm for the deep hurt; the words of John's letter seemed to dance grotesquely before her eyes; the odor of a bunch of violets upon her desk seemed strangely like that of frizzling bacon. Only the chiming of her desk clock recalled Ruth from her mental wanderings to a re-assertion of her self mastery. "T am delighted, Miss Madge," her voice carried the charming: tones which were so much her success, "to meet my brother's future wife. I may call you Madge, of course?" she added smilingly. "I shall make arrangement to devote a part of each day to your shopping needs, and together we will select a trousseau which, I hope, will satisfy you and Brother John, too. I am glad my brother is going to end his lonely ways." Ruth felt that lie was an achievement in self possession—surely she was mistress of her emotions. "T'm glad you're willin' that I should get married to John." Miss Paine's musical voice was incongruous with her uncultured JOHN BENNETT'S DIVORCE — 399 speech. "I sure want you to help me buy a few things to make life more comfortable fur John. He's had a hard struggle out there. Some window curtain stuff and a table cloth or two, to make the place look homelike. He's had a terrible lonely time of it, with no wimen folks around. He's a good man, John is, and I aim to help him all I kin. I ain't got no patience with these here lap-dog wives, what's expectin' a man to do all, and gives nuthin' back. They're just millstones round a man's neck, and there's plenty of them things in our country, without wives - turnin' into 'em!" ] Ruth glanced quickly at Miss Paine, searching for the intent of her cutting thrust. Was the remark intentionally personal? But Madge's guileless face showed only wonderment, interest, and friendly concern. Ruth methodically set to work upon the purchase of Madge's trousseau. Madge produced a generous purse, and Ruth, as if seeking to heap coals of fire upon John's head, made inroads into her own savings. "I might as well," she argued with herself, "there is no motive to save for myself now." If material things could make Madge contented with the life which lay before her, she should have them a plenty. Many curious glances and suppressed smiles followed the incongruous pair on their daily shopping trip, for Ruth's immaculate toilet only served to make Madge's oddities of dress more noticeable. But a transformation was soon accomplished, for Ruth's first task had been the purchase of suitable clothes for her guest. In the choice of household fittings Madge seemed willing to ~ leave all selections to Ruth. The result was an array of fine linens, thin china, dainty curtains and good rugs which would have decried and overflowed the tiny cabin Ruth had known. Perhaps John would see the necessity of building a better house for the furniture which came with his bride, Ruth bitterly concluded. Forth from its corner she brought her own hope chest, filled with beautiful and expensive home things which she had collected from time to time, and which she had saved for the home she had visioned. With reckless abandon she transferred all the contents of the chest to a voluminous box destined, with others, for Buenna, Idaho. But in the selection of her personal outfit, Madge demurred and attempted to assert individual taste. "Silk stockins and white house dresses ain't in keepin' with our ways," she protested, as Ruth displayed her selections. '"Reckon you ain't nuver seen a dry-farm," she continued. "Sagebrush and sand, cedars and weeds is our nearest neighbors. We don't have no swamps nor frog ponds. John's life ain't easy like that o' farmers back here. He has to fight rabbits an' squirrels an' grasshoppers, an' wind. May as like I'll haul water and chase sheep through barbed fences. Better give me good, wearin' things, like ginghams an' khaki. I 400. ~RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE nuver was much fur fancy fixings. Folks in our valley will think I'm puttin' on airs 'cause John Bennett's pick't me out,' she warned. Ruth paid no heed to her protestations. Secretly she was determined to see Madge have a trousseau which would astonish John, that would set a standard he would feel constrained to meet. Perhaps daintiness in his bride would stir his lethargic soul—set him again pulsing for the things of life. He had once loved the beautiful; he might yet be stirred from the groove of his own making. Perhaps he would yet come to feel discontent for his primitive environment. At least, reasoned Ruth, he would see that his rejected wife knew how to do things. So with reckless disregard for cost or practicability, Ruth filled a trunk with delicate, sheer garments more suited to a wealthy debutante than the wife of an Idaho dry-farmer. "You're going to have a real wedding, Madge," persisted Ruth, revealing a bridal veil and a georgette gown, "a real orange blossom wedding. You will be the first correctly gowned bride in your valley. Are they not beautiful?" Madge surveyed the dainty garments with lethargic interest. "They don't look to me as if they'd stand washin'," was her practical comment, "and they'd sure need it if I was to wear 'em to the court house, thirty miles off. Sand and wind would sure make that dress look sick." She laughed at the fancied picture. Ruth also determined Madge should have her fling at New York City. During her sojourn in the Idaho valley she had known women who spent their entire lives within its narrow confines; women who had never seen a city or purchased a yard of cloth over a counter. She took Madge to her own apartment, from where they journeyed every night in' search of diversion. She took her to the best amusements the city afforded, on boat excursions around Manhattan Island. She guided her through the Sunday crowds at Coney Island, watched her gaze, open-mouthed, at the canyon of skyscrapers on lower Broadway. She piloted her up the long flight in the Goddess of Liberty, took her to gaze at the masterpieces in the art museums. She managed to keep Madge in a constant rush and excitement, half for the purpose of sowing discontent in her mind, half to drown her own heartache, which daily grew more poignant. But she was determined upon one thing—Madge should taste city life to the full before returning to her martyr-like existence. And Madge was, to. All appearances, plastic to Ruth's wishes. She went where Ruth willed; dressed in the new clothes as she dictated, and maintained an attitude of wonderment at the new life opening before her. Uncomplainingly she tramped through the crowds, ate at the roof garden tables, gazed at the great crowds which filled the Hippodrome. Only at night, instead of dreaming JOHN BENNETT'S DIVORCE ~~... 401 of the thrilling sights, as Ruth supposed her to be doing, Madge lay awake, listening to Ruth's restless turnings. For, in the privacy of the friendly darkness, Ruth Bennett gave vent to her real feelings. She did not want John, her John, to marry this woman. Could he raise her to his level, or would he stoop to hers? Over and over, through sleepless hours, she studied her problem, striving to be fair, failing miserably. When the trousseau was completed and the last box had been shipped to Buenna's nearest railroad terminal, Ruth gave Madge what she supposed was the biggest surprise of her visit. She would test John's ability of self control, since he had seen fit to give her the supreme test. She would let him see the woman he had set aside. "Madge," she said with seeming innocence, "what would you think if I go back with you to Buenna to see you married? I haven't seen brother John for six years, and I need a rest, too. My contract provides for a vacation every year, and I have not used last year's. I'll go with you, and we'll surprise John. I can be of so much assistance to you in your wedding preparations, besides," she continued lightly, "I fear if I am not there to make you wear it, you'll forget all about that beautiful veil and gown. We won't write John a word about my coming, I'll just be there, when he comes to meet you. Won't he be surprised?" A fleeting look of triumph, of cunning intent, passed over Madge's face, then it relaxed into the expression of wonderment which she had constantly worn. "Do you aim to go back to Buenna with me?" she said incredulously. "Back there where there ain't no electric lights, or fancy eatin' houses, or paved streets? Back there where the dust crawls over your slipper tops and the wind burns you browner "ana berry? Back to Buenna people drink water from barrels," she added. "Do you really mean to go with me, just to see me and John get married?" "I guess if you and John can endure it for the rest of your lives, I ought to be able to survive it for a week or two," Ruth's reply carried a forced laugh. "Perhaps the change will do me good. I feel dreadfully run down, anyway." "You sure do think a lot of John," was Madge's only comment. "Buyin' all them things fur him an' me, 'stead of puttin' 'em into a house fur yourself.. No wonder he was always talkin' about you. I ain't surprised now that he kep' your picture where he could see it—in his watch. You sure are some sister, 'an I'll be proud to show you to my folks. They'll be proud to meet you, Miss Bennett, and they'll sure treat you right." 'But Ruth Bennett was not thinking of the reception she would receive from Madge's folks. She was not thinking of the attractive Faster window which had brought so much praise to her department. She had even forgotten her contract, which still remained. 402. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE unsigned. She was mentally picturing the varied emotions which would flood John Bennett's unshaven, sunburned face when his divorced wife and his bride-to-be should both step from the train. CHAPTER TWO A few days later the two women began the return journey to Buenna. Ruth distinctly remembered all the landmarks of the journey as she had made it with John, seven years before. The rolling hills with their background of rugged mountains looked familiar. The narrow gauge railroad, with its puffing engine and swaying cars was still there. But Ruth looked in vain for coyotes and rabbits and other wild life she remembered. Instead, she gazed at fallowed fields, at new homesteaders' houses, at tractors, winding around wide clearings. Pungent odors of fresh turned earth blended with the odor of cinders; and ever before them like a bright green carpet, stretched broad fields of fall grain. Even at the terminal further surprises awaited her. There was no lonely, forlorn mail stage, which she so well remembered as the vehicle in which she and John had journeyed to their claim. Instead, several autos stood about, while their owners formed little groups as they waited for the train. 'As the engine heaved and steamed, two men hurried forward —two men who were neither unshaven nor uncouth, whose conventional dress would have passed unnoticed on a city street. Sunburned and rugged they were, to be sure, but what a wonderful, healthy, vigorous color it was! Ruth felt a hot, stinging flush as John Bennett strode toward her, and not toward Madge. Here was this man whom she had judged as degenerating and plebian. Here was no failure, no dolt, but a man, confident, assured, bearing the stamp of successful achievement in every movement. Her confused emotions simmered to surprise as John, after a perfunctory greeting to Madge, turned his attention solely to his supposed sister; while his companion, upon reaching Madge, took her bodily in one strong arm and swung her clear from the platform. There had been no exchange of lovers' glances, no diffidence on the part of either one. "Ruth!" cried John Bennett, seizing both her hands in a grip which hurt, "how good it is to see you again! How glad I am! What. A surprise—I never dreamed you were brave enough to weather our frontier country. Madge gave us no hint of your coming, but we all of us—Madge, her brother and I, welcome you to our valley, my sister!" "Oh, yes, this is my brother Ernest, and this is John's sister Ruth," Siiaditeed Madge as soon as she had regained her breath and equilibrium. "You'll have to excuse his makin' a fuss over me, Ruth. Him and me thinks quite a bit of each other, same as JOHN BENNETT'S DIVORCE ~2" 403 you and John does. That's the way I like to see families," she added, as if anxious to explain Ernest's demonstrations satisfactorily. "I don't aim to let even a husband come between me and Ernest." "You'd better not," replied Ernest testily. And, as if to prove his point further, he lifted Madge into the front seat of the car, climbed into the driver's seat and beckoned the others to follow. "Come on," he called, his good nature seemingly restored,. "no need to bicker about which bus to take. They all lead to the same hotel." Ruth, sitting beside John in the rear seat, became self conscious and ill at ease. She felt an undercurrent of emotion which she could not understand. Everything was so different! John had not manifested the emotions of chagrin which she had expected; he was not the uncouth failure she had visioned. He did. Not seem depressed or poor, and instead of being embarrassed at her presence, he was openly elated. Ruth could not understand his marriage with Madge—was it to be compensation for some service rendered? Was he marrying to get a cook? He certainly was not the buoyant, eager lover Madge had a right to expect. And yet, all the way, he praised her and her achievement. Undoubtedly there existed some unexplained circumstances, some peculiar conditions to be cleared up before the atmosphere would be marital and festive. During the entire trip John, as if anxious to dispel Ruth's evident embarrassment, talked continuously, calling her attention to points of interest enroute. "We're a lot more settled out here than people think," he said, "dry-farmers everywhere now. Hardly a bit of range left. Lucky thing for me that I filed on an additional homestead and bought a piece or two from disgruntled settlers. Now I've got enough land to farm it right. That's a tractor way over there, Ruth—they're the only thing in this country—beat the old plow horse all to pieces. They pull your cedar trees, plow your land and run your threshing machines. Regular all-round servants. I'm sure glad Madge insisted on my getting one—it's going to pay for itself this year alone. She's got foresight, that girl has, Ruth, if I do say it. That's my section line over at the far end of that stubble," he continued. "That bunch of cedars away up there hides the house where we are going to live. Madge thought it would be a pretty place to build, and, of course, I agreed with her. That long black line is fresh plowed ground, and that patch turning green is fall rye," he explained at great length, choosing to pretend Ruth had never seen a plowed field. "Not so fast Ernest, please," he bantered boyishly, "I want my sister to see all my broad acres." But Ruth did not heed his light repartee. More beautiful than any window display she had ever made, the wide valley lay 404 . RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE before them. Smooth as a carpet, the pale green fields of grain stretched far away, blending with the purple gray of yet unconquered sage. The black squares of fresh earth, with the occasional blocks of yellow stubble gave the whole valley the appearance of a huge checkerboard. And John had a new house, built purposely for his new bride! How Ruth remembered that grove of cedars in which he had built! How she had hated them during the long winter she had spent in the tiny, snowbound cabin. They had seemed so calm and peaceful, despite the heavy snows which weighted their branches. They had been a haven to the cedar birds that had so irritated her with their cawing. How prosperous the whole valley seemed—how different from the waste stretches she had known. It no longer seemed desolate and silent, but fresh and inviting—nature seemed to be calling from every clod, but not to her. She had not toiled for the fruits which were now abundant, and the harvest was entirely for another. As Ernest drove leisurely toward the clump of cedars, Ruth noted new sheds, new barns, a huge silo, and a large windmill whirling merrily. Signs of prosperity were on every hand. John never told her of these improvements. And the house! Ruth had never dreamed such a structure possible out here. Logs and shingles artistically blended, with a cobble fire-place. Cedar trees all around, window boxes of house plants, neat paths, sodded grass. No cluttered yard, no unsightly tin cans, no inquisitive drove of hogs or loose chickens. A veritable home, built for and planned by this Madge, whom John seemed unable to praise enough. And within the house the same air of peace and refinement prevailed. There was no lurking odor or rancid bacon, no hint of harness oil or dusty grain sacks. There was no evidence of smoky oil lamps or make-shift furniture. The atmosphere was like that of the city that Ruth had left. The kitchen had a sink with running water; the dining table was set with the thin china she had selected—the chairs looked inviting—one of the good rugs was in place. In every detail it was a home, built for the sole purpose of comfort and happiness. "Put on another plate for sister Ruth,' called John genially as they entered. "I like your taste in dishes ened furniture, Madge," he continued as she capably prepared the meal. "This is going to be some house. Just as soon as Madge can get the curtains made you couldn't tell it from a city flat. Now honest, eh, Ruth? You must stay a long time with us, sister, and come often again. You look tired out, but Madge is a regular cook, so you'll pick up in no time. You must be sure to taste the fried rabbit she canned last winter, after our big hunt. Couldn't tell it from chicken if you didn't know about it." Ruth never knew how she got through that meal. Ernest Paine was preoccupied and spoke only in monosyllables. It seemed JOHN BENNETT'S DIVORCE 405 to take all of Madge's time to wait upon the table and John had no topic of conversation save praise for Madge's accomplishments. Madge was foremost in all his plans, all his hopes. She had planned the house—she had designed the cobble chimney—she had planted the lawn—she had selected the wall paper. In short she seemed, to John, an almost omnipotent personage. Choking down a little of the much praised food, Ruth pleaded fatigue and asked to be excused. Whereupon John immediately showed her to a daintily furnished room which, he explained, Madge had designed for her very own, but which should belong to Ruth so long as she cared to stay. There it was again—praise for Madge! - Was the very air she breathed supplied by that wonderful woman? Evidently she dominated the entire life of the ranch—perhaps she had actually done the courting. Was John marrying her because she was capable and strong and acclimated? Without so much as a glance at the room and its trimmings, Ruth flung herself upon the bed, heartsick and lonely. She keenly realized that she was reaping only the fruit of her own sowing. She had voluntarily withdrawn herself from the life of the valley—how could she expect the valley to include her now? She knew she was responsible for John's altered affections. She had played the lap dog wife, made no sacrifices, no self-denial. She had failed to do her part, for she had literally run away when the real struggle began. All that John had achieved had been done without encouragement or aid from his wife. No wonder he had sought release, and solace from another. She was finally roused from her self denunciation by the sound of subdued voices near the open window. John? Was he exercising the lover's right, indulging in the lover's embrace, he had denied himself in Ruth's presence. Ruth did not intend to eavesdrop, but there was no retreat and the voices floated in, while the early twilight concealed the identity of the speakers.
"Give me back my wedding ring," said a woman's voice, musical and happy. "I've been lost without it ever since I left. I'll never take it off again, never, never! Give it to me, please, I feel sort of divorced without it."
"Not until you kiss me forty times," answered a man's voice, low but dominant. "After three weeks' absence, seems to me I'm entitled to some show of wifely affection. Here I've been around you for about six hours and haven't dared to even kiss you for fear of spoiling the play. Never been so lonesome in all my life! Can't understand how John's ever managed to stick it out so long. If you hadn't come on that train, I was prepared to go and get you. If we were ever indebted to John Bennett, and I know of course we were—he's pulled us through many a bad pinch—you've more than turned the tables. The very idea of borrowing a man's wife, and my wife at that, for three long weeks, just to bring a pride-bound woman to her senses!"
"But it was worth it, dear, and so necessary, too," the woman's voice was tender, her speech free from all colloquial expressions. "Think what her coming means to him—to them both. And she has come as he determined she should—voluntarily."
"Humph!" the man's voice was charged with disgust for all things feminine. "He's been too easy and tolerant. He should have played the cave man. If a woman couldn't share my privations, I can't figure out why she should get in on the flush of things. She's ducked all the hard part—his path is easy sailing now. She ought to be willing to come back."
"Ernest!" the voice was half protesting, half laughing. "Please stop mussing my hair. And you're mistaken when you say he has had all the hard part, and all the loneliness. You should have seen her as I first did, cooped up in a tiny glass office, without even a view of the horrid paved streets. She was unhappy. Her eyes told me so. When she read that ridiculous letter about divorce, I thought she was going to faint. I guess she had to suffer some, to make her feel how much she really cared."
There was a moment's lull, a smothered protest, a subdued laugh and the narrator continued: "The way she dragged me around New York City, and the ridiculous things she purchased for my trousseau. I couldn't stop her. My feet are covered with blisters—I am sick for sleep, and my poor stomach is on a revolt. She thought John would send for her, while he thought she ought to come because she left of her own free choice."
"I should say as much!" the voice of Ernest Paine rose emphatic, in defense of all wifeless husbands. "If you acted—"
Ruth Bennett, half credulous, half dazed, became fully conscious of her eavesdropping. She rose suddenly and slammed the window down recklessly. How stupidly credulous and gullible she had been. How she had played into their game, just as they wished her to do! John wasn't engaged to Madge—she could have screamed her relief. Ernest Paine was no brother to Madge. She began frantically delving into her handbag, just as Madge had done in the old office back in the New York office. Finding what she sought, she opened the door noiselessly and tiptoed into the dining room.
The table was uncleared, the chairs were pushed about. A large leather rocker, in keeping with the furnishings of the house, had been drawn up to the dying fire, and John rested in its depths. A look of sorrowful patience marked his relaxed features. Ruth noticed little patches of gray about his trimly cut hair.
"Brother John,' Ruth tried to appear calm, but her voice
JOHN BENNETT'S DIVORCE 407
shook over her recent discovery, "do you happen to have a copy of the Idaho laws, relative to divorce? Naturally, I have a desire to read that which concerns me—us—so vitally."
John Bennett jumped up with alacrity. "To hang with the statutes!" he cried with a happy, boyish grin. "It isn't true there are no divorce proceedings. Ernest and Madge have gone to their own home by now. There wasn't a single word of that letter true. I suppose it was dreadful, writing my name to a deliberate falsehood, but I was getting desperate. Besides it was for our mutual benefit. I wanted you, and Madge seemed to have enough sense to know that this sort of scheme would rouse you to the coming back point. It was her plan, and I let her figure it all out."
"Do you mean that Madge doesn't need the wedding veil?" stammered the confused, bewildered Ruth.
"She doesn't need anything. She's got a fine husband, a good home. She reasoned that if she masqueraded as an ignorant, lethargic girl, with no ambitions or aspirations, it would stir you to make a fight for your happiness. If for nothing else, to save me from her. She knew if she didn't pretend she was stupid and dull, you'd be apt to accept what looked inevitable, and not come at all."
"Are we still married? Isn't this her house?" stammered the poised Ruth.
"I was beginning to wonder if you would ever come out of that room," answered John Bennett. "The Paines are refined people, seeking relief from an unnatural, citified life, just as I sought it. And they are making good. I've tried to help them over rough places, and they, in turn, have tried to make me less lonely. Because she is a real friend and neighbor, Madge Paine went to all that trouble, just to get you here. I wanted you, wife Ruth."
"You never said so, John," Ruth was all humility. "If you had only hinted, I would have come, long ago. I wanted to come."
"I couldn't ask you to return," John faced his wife with a look that was almost stern, "because I never sent you away. You left because you wanted to, you had to return the same way. But you don't know how I have wanted you—how lonesome it can get, even in God's great out-of-doors. You don't realize the hundreds of lonesome nights I've thought of you, what you were doing, wondering when you would feel the call to return."
"People can get lonesome, even in New York City, John," Ruth answered softly, stepping to the grate and dropping the torn fragments of her contract over the embers. "Thank God for that!" muttered John Bennett huskily. He took a step nearer, held out his arms; big, strong, hungry arms, to his wife Ruth.
Not Understood Thomas Bracken
Not understood. We move along asunder, Our paths grow wider as the seasons creep Along the years; we marvel and we wonder Why life is life; and then we fall asleep, Not understood.
Not understood. We gather false impressions, And hug them closer as the years go by, Till virtues often seem to us transgressions; And thus men rise and fall, and live and die, Not understood.
Not understood. Poor souls with stunted vision Oft measure giants by their narrow gauge; The poisoned shafts of falsehood and derision Are oft impelled 'gainst those who mould the age, Not understood.
Not understood. The secret springs of action, Which lie beneath the surface and the show, Are disregarded; with self-satisfaction We judge our neighbors, and they often go, Not understood.
Not understood. How trifles often change us! The thoughtless sentence or the fancied slight Destroy long years of friendship and estrange us, And on our souls there falls a freezing blight; Not understood.
Not understood. How many breasts are aching For lack of sympathy! Ah! Day by day, How many cheerless, lonely hearts are breaking! How many noble spirits pass away Not understood.
Oh, God! That men would see a little clearer, Or judge less harshly where they can not see: Oh, God! That men would draw a little nearer To one another, they'd be nearer Thee, And understood. —Journal of Education.
Conference on Prevention of Causes of War
The following letter written to Mrs. Susa Young Gates, by Mrs. Emma Ray McKay, is self-explanatory:
Liverpool, May 16, 1924.
Mrs. Susa Young Gates, Salt Lake City, Utah.
My dear Sister Gates:
Your letter asking me to be a delegate to the International Convention of Women, at Wembley, came as a great surprise. I was delighted, though, and when a few days later a letter arrived from Lady Aberdeen inviting me very cordially to attend the convention, I wrote my acceptance. I want to thank you for this wonderful opportunity; it far excelled my expectations. The talks were all worth while and most of them especially fine and well delivered.
An invitation has just been handed me to attend a reception given to "Overseas Visitors" at International House, Gower St., London. This would be another interesting experience, but I do not know whether I can make it.
The exhibition at Wembley is an excellent one, especially the exhibitions of Canada, Australia, and West Africa. We had not much time for sightseeing between meetings and rushed away immediately after the closing of the convention; but we had a hurried view of most of it and enjoyed every thing immensely.
In Durham House we are house-cleaning, papering, etc., with all their accompanying joys. A dry day has been looked for longingly that we might have our carpets beaten but not until today has the sun shone warmly. And even today the clouds had to loosen up a bit.
Again with many thanks for your kind thoughtfulness, I am,
Very lovingly, Emma Ray McKay.
REPORT
During the week of May 2-8, 1924, the special Conference on Prevention of the Causes of War, organized by the International Council of Women in co-operation with the World Alliance for Promoting Friendship Through the Churches, The World's Young Woman's Christian Association, and the World's Christian Temperance Union, took place at the British Empire Exhibition, at Wembley, England, near London.
"This was intended as a call to women all over the world to realize their power to remove the causes of war and to realize as well their personal responsibility in this matter."
The Marchioness of Aberdeen and Temair, who presided over this conference and who has attended many women's conventions, declared that she "knows no convention that has reached the high standard that this convention had reached."
The list of speakers included forty-eight eminent men and women from foreign lands. Among them were the Marchioness of Aberdeen and Temair, President of the International Council of Women; Signora Chiaraviglio-Giolitti, delegate from the National Council of Italy; Dr. Nitobe, Assistant Secretary of the League of Nations; Dr. Rene Sand, Secretary General, League of Red Cross Societies; Baroness Mannerheim, President International Council of Nurses; Miss Cornelia Sorabji, representing India; Miss Christitch, representing Jugo-Slovakia; Madame Romniciano, Secretary, Union Mondiale de la Femme; Madame Avril de Ste. Croix, Vice-President, I. C. W.; Mlle. Mundt, International Labour Office; Mrs. Horace Parsons, Corresponding Secretary N. C. W. of Canada; Herr Adolf Kunz, Counsellor, Austrian Legation; Dr. Arthur Bestor, President of Chautauqua, U. S. A.; Madame Clara Guthrie d'Arcis, President Union Mondiale de la Femme; Madame Malaterre-Sellier, Vice-President, Union Francaise pour le Suffrage des Femmes; Professor Gilbert Murray, M. A., Chairman, Executive Committee, League of Nations Union; Viscountess Astor, M. P.; The Rt. Rev., The Lord Bishop of Oxford; and a number of other prominent men and women representing various organizations, colleges, and universities throughout Great Britain.
The hall was decorated with the flags of all nations, each one attached to a background of blue—the dark blue representing the international idea. Above the flag was the word, "Pax," and above that was the "Dove of Peace." These flags stood all around the walls of the room and against the pillars as well. They were very impressive.
Much stress was laid upon the necessity of a better understanding among nations and upon suggestive ways and means whereby this may be accomplished. Some of the most important ways and means are these:
1st. "The interchange of students is one of the greatest means of preventing war," and in order that there may be interchange of many students, there should be a reduction of railway fare, passports made less expensive, living expenses reduced, and certificates and diplomas standardized.
2nd. There should be an interchange of post-graduates and international club houses where post-graduates may live, as, e. g., the Crosby House in London. The financial question is here
PREVENTION OF CAUSES OF WAR 411
again the difficulty.
3rd. There should be interchange of teachers and professors of universities. This requires no money except traveling expenses because the teachers volunteer for one year. There are at present one hundred Canadian teachers in London.
4th. "We must acquire an international mind" that we may understand the language, customs, and religions of other peoples. "Ignorance of others brings arrogance and dislike, and dislike causes war." We must study individualities for the good of the whole.
5th. "Junior Red Cross with its international correspondence and Junior Magazines is one of the greatest assets of peace we have."
6th. "Peace can be established only on the basis of social justice,"
7th. "The minds of people must be adjusted. There are misunderstandings due to economic causes, attainments of raw materials, investments, etc. Since people live in about the same way everywhere, there should be a standardization of living."
8th. "Drink is an international danger. Drink does not make for peace. We are going to stop war not by talking peace but by living peace. More money can be made by making grapes into raisins than by turning them into wine. Taverns in Great Britain are frequented by four thousand men a week. In twenty-five years the drink bills of the world would pay all the debts of the world."
9th. There should be an international plan whereby women might be helped all over the world especially in regard to the problem of their employment during the responsibility of motherhood. "All women want courage, happiness and safety."
10th. An international public health policy is necessary.
11th. "The failure of any nation to adopt humane conditions of labor is an obstacle in the way of other nations which desire to improve conditions in their own countries."
12th. "International agreement is needed against opium and drugs. In 1908, India and China decided to stop raising opium. India has kept its word. China did for a while but has now reverted to the raising of opium." There is need of a higher sense of honor among governments.
13th. "Treaties or agreements or obligations should be made known to the people where they are made and should be revised periodically."
14th. "The cost of armaments is the direct cause of war, Sixty per cent of our money is paid out for war services. The very existence of armament brings war." It is said that every war office on the globe is, however reluctantly, preparing for the
412 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
next world war, and that, while the war regime lasts, any international complication may precipitate it. It was further stated that the next world war will be appalling, immeasurably more destructive and more horrible than the last, paralyzing our civilization for perhaps centuries to come.
15th. "Prevention must be based on spiritual conception. Christianity is not a failure. Christianity has never been tried. Christianity as it has been used is like a man fighting in battle with one hand behind his back." We must walk in the light of the Lord, live up to the standards of the Christian church and be a community actuated by the idea of mutual service. "Women may prevent war if they look into the causes of it, and in decency, kindness and honor put forth an effort to remove them. To know these causes, more light must be thrown upon legislation. Governments are inhuman and do many iniquities in the dark. Light should penetrate the dark places. If women were told more, they would understand more and accomplish more." "Women must travel to get an intimate knowledge of the rivalries and jealousies of people. Young women should use their university training for commerce, trade and finance to help settle economic disputes." "Mothers must think peace, talk peace, and teach peace to their children by not buying guns, cannons, soldiers and other war playthings, but playthings that will encourage thoughts of peace. There is virtue in thinking good things, there is degradation in thinking evil things." "Women must stand up for an international court of justice and join hands to erect the stronghold of peace."
I have given this brief summary merely to give an idea of the trend of the subjects treated at the thirteen sessions of the convention. Later, I hope to send you a verbatim copy of the addresses given. I attended every session but one, conference at Birmingham preventing me from being present at the public meeting. I enjoyed every meeting. The addresses were excellent, uplifting and highly instructive.
With one thing I am more deeply impressed than ever; and that is the potency and power of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints to deal successfully with the great problems presented for solution by these leaders of world organizations. A number of them we have already solved or are solving them. Take for example the interchange of study and interchange of peoples. What better opportunity for studying languages, customs and ideas of peoples can be found than that afforded by our missionary system! Our young men go to all parts of the world. They harbor no prejudices, they hate no people, they have no
MRS. ISABELL WARDELL WRIGHT AND DAUGHTERS
Isabel Wardell Wright
Isabel Wardell Wright was born November 29, 1849, in Piddleton Row, Durham County, England. Her father was a ship builder and was sent to America to build boats in 1851. Mother Wright was only three years of age at this time. She lived in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, at which place all the family joined the Church, emigrating to Utah in 1859. They are of the group who crossed the plains with ox teams.
In 1864 Isabel Wardell married John P. Wright, a tailor by trade. They settled in Mill Creek, which has been the family home ever since. Mother Wright had fourteen children, eleven girls and three boys, all born in Mill Creek. Of this family, eight daughters and three sons are still living. These eleven children have all been married from the old homestead in Mill Creek.
Mother Wright was an active worker in the Relief Society for over forty years, and the eight daughters are following their noble mother's example by serving in the organizations of the Church. These daughters, whose photographs we are very pleased to print, with the mother in front, are respectively; Mrs. E. W. Zenger, Farmington; Mrs. H. J. Debenham, East Mill Creek; Mrs. J. S. Riley, Garfield. Mrs. John W. Saunders, Salt Lake City; Mrs. Fred Furrow, Salt Lake City; Mrs. Ern Stewart, McGill, Nevada; Mrs. Harley Ross, Murray, Nevada; and Mrs. Wm. Byrum, Ucon, Idaho.
When the Alien Needs a Friend
Once again a club woman has stepped from the ranks of altruism to a paid job in State government administration. Mrs. Lillian R. Sire, for many years president of the Society for the Aid of Mental Defectives, that supports a clinic at the Post Graduate Hospital under Dr. Max G. Schlapp, has been appointed Director of the Division of Aliens of the State Department of Labor.
Mrs. Sire is a glowing young person, who brings the same directness and clarity of vision to a real job which has been manifest in all her club relations. In federation conventions, when she takes the floor in a discussion, she has a voice that carries,
416 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
and English that expresses what she has to say in no uncertain manner.
"I feel that my twenty years of work among the troubled and less gifted of our fellow mortals has been preparing me for the work I have now undertaken," she said in an interview at Hotel Wellington, where she lives, "and although I only received my appointment on the day following New Year's, I am rapidly grasping its needs and the possibilities for service in my office. My work is that of adjusting the misunderstandings of the people who have come to our shores and who are victimized and misunderstood.
"Oftentimes these aliens cheat and victimize each other. So every day I hold informal court. It is my business to get both sides of the story. If the problem will possibly lend itself to adjustment, together we work it out. If one side is obdurate then it must go to the magistrate, and I am present at the hearing.
"It is a motherly kind of work that appeals to all women. My office is quite generally known among the aliens, and when even it is so simple a matter as a housemaid's unpaid wage, it soon straightens when the white light of justice and informal application of law become features of the situation.
"It is also an excellent opportunity for Americanization work in which I have for many years been actively interested. I have learned by experience the attitude of mind of our prospective citizens, and by means of an interpreter, it is not difficult for me to ferret out the false note when there is one, and to recognize sincerity.
"My course of law in the woman's law class of the New York University is also of greatest advantage, and it seems as if the experiences of my life have all led up to this present opportunity to serve as a citizen in this work as Director of the Divisions of Aliens of the State Department of Labor.
"All lodging houses for Aliens in this city, as well as in the State, come under my department and receive their licenses there. The rights and wrongs of the lodgers are subject to my office, and in that way the magistrate is saved much unnecessary labor."
Less than fifty years ago in the city of Boston, when the School Board consisted of twenty-four members, selected by wards, three women of high social and civic prominence were elected to serve on the School Board, but they could not serve because the law specified that men only were entitled to serve on the School Board. It required special legislation to confer that privilege.
Notes from the Field Amy Brown Lyman
PROGRAM OF AUXILIARY GROUP CONVENTIONS FOR 1924 (To be held in connection with the regular quarterly conferences)
Dates July 19-20—Woodruff, Yellowstone. July 26-27—Curlew, Lost River, Raft River, Snowflake. August 2- 3—Alberta, Emery, St. Johns, Teton. August 5- 6—Lethbridge, Wayne. August 9-10—Bannock, Blaine, Shelley, South Sevier, Taylor, August 16-17—Big Horn, Blackfoot, Oneida. August 23-24—Bear River, Idaho. August 30-31—Bear Lake, Garfield, San Juan. September 2- 3—Panguitch, Young. September 6- 7—Kanab, San Luis. September 13-14—Boise, Montpelier, Parowan, Twin Falls, Minidoka. September 20-21—Duchesne, Millard, North Sanpete, St. George, Star Valley, Union. September 23-24—Roosevelt. September 27-28—Carbon, Deseret, Fremont, Hyrum, Morgan, Sevier, Uintah. October 11-12—Beaver, Benson, Cassia, North Sevier, Tintic. October 18-19—Summit, Tooele, Wasatch. October 25-26—Maricopa. October 28-29—Juarez. November 1- 2—St. Joseph. November 8- 9—Burley, Malad, Los Angeles. November 15-16—Bingham, Juab. November 22-23—Pocatello, Portneuf, Rigby, South Sanpete. November 29-30—Franklin, Gunnison, Moapa.
Conventions separate from the quarterly conferences are to be held in the following stakes, the dates to be given later in a separate program: Alpine, Box Elder, Cache, Cottonwood, Ensign, Granite, Grant, Jordan, Liberty, Logan, Mt. Ogden, Nebo, North Davis, North Weber, Ogden, Oquirrh, Pioneer, Salt Lake, South Davis, Utah, Weber.
Time of Meetings
Saturday 10 A. M. To 12 noon—Joint Meeting, Auxiliary Stake Board
418 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
Workers, with General Board Representatives, the Stake Presidency, High Council, Alternates, and Bishoprics to be present. Public Meeting.
2 to 4 P. M.—Relief Society Stake and Ward Officers Meeting. Sunday School Stake Board Meeting. M. I. A. Joint Stake Board and Separate Stake Board Meetings. Primary Stake and Ward Officers' Meeting with the public invited.
4:15 to 5:30 P. M.—Separate interviews of the General Representatives with their respective stake superintendencies or presidencies including secretaries,
Evening Session—Public meeting devoted to the work of the Relief Society and M. I. A.
Sunday
10 A. M. To 12 noon—Relief Society Stake Board Meeting. Sunday School Stake and Ward Officers' Meeting, with public invited. Y. M. M. I. A. Stake and Ward Officers' Meeting. Y. L. M. I. A. Stake and Ward Officers' Meeting. Primary Stake Board Meeting.
2 P. M.—General Conference Session.
Evening Session—Conjoint Meeting of Y. M. M. I. A. and Y. L. M. I. A.
PROGRAM FOR RELIEF SOCIETY MEETINGS (Including the Joint Stake Board Meeting)
Joint Meeting of Auxiliary Stake Board Workers With General Board Representatives, the Stake Presidency, High Council, Alternates, and Bishoprics Being Invited
I. Song. II. Prayer III. Demonstration—The Organization of Lesson Material 50 minutes Conducted by a General Representative IV. Stake Board Activities: a. Union Meetings 10 minute address by A General Representative 1. Purpose. 2. Suggestive order of business.
NOTES FROM THE FIELD 419
b. Stake Board Visits 10 minute address by A General Representative
    1. Purpose.
    2. Methods.
V. Round Table Discussion of the Following Topics: a. Relation of the Auxiliary Stake Boards to Stake and Ward Priesthood authorities. b. Steps in the installation of a new administration. c. The effect of change of administration on Board membership. d. Duplication of offices. e. Teacher training. f. Recreation. g. Meetings of auxiliary executives. h. Contributions and collections. VI. Benediction.
SATURDAY, 2 TO 4 P. M.
Meeting of Relief Society Stake and Ward Officers, Including Visiting Teachers and Class Leaders, Bishops Being Invited
I. Suggestions and Outlines for Ward Conferences. II. Membership in the Relief Society. III. Cooperation between Bishop and Relief Society Ward President. IV. Studying Family Situations. V. Responsibility of Relief Society Welfare Workers.
(These topics will be treated by a Representative of the General Board.)
VI. Questionnaire.
SATURDAY EVENING (Hour to be fixed by Stake Presidency)
PUBLIC MEETING (Under direction of Stake Presidency) Devoted to the Work of the Relief Society and M. I. A., Relief Society and M. I. A. Stake and Ward Officers to be Present
I. Ladies' Chorus Members of Relief Society II. The Relief Society Message A 30 minute demonstration. A. Motherhood. B. Conservation of Child. C. Conservation of Family. III. Stake M. I. A. Song Assembly IV. M. I. A. Activities for Ward Social Center. A 30 minute demonstration
420 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
V. Recreation in the Home A 30 minute demonstration. VI. Mixed Double Quartet Members of the M. I. A.
(The above program will be prepared by Stake workers in accordance with plans that will be submitted by the respective General Boards.)
SUNDAY, 10 A. M. TO 12 NOON
Meeting of Relief Society Stake Board Members
I. The Stake Board Meeting. II. Qualifications and Duties of Stake Officers and Board Members. III. The Conduct of Ward Relief Society Meetings. IV. Affiliation with National and International Councils of Women. V. Questionnaire.
(These topics will be treated by a representative of the General Board.)
European Mission.
Very interesting letters have been received at Relief Society headquarters from the European Mission, expressing appreciation and thanks for the carloads of clothing sent to this mission during the past winter. In addition to a letter from Mrs. Emma Ray McKay, to the General Board, and a letter from President David O. McKay, to the First Presidency of the Church, there are letters from several branch Relief Societies, including Frankfurt, Hamburg, Lubeck.
Our readers will be interested in the letters from President and Mrs. McKay, which we print in full:
"Dear Brethren: Fourteen crates of shoes and seventy-two bales of clothing have been delivered here at Durham House free of charge, excepting dock charges, customs duties, etc., which we may probably have refunded.
"The Leyland Steamship Line, part of the White Star Steamship Line, brought the freight gratuitously from New York to Liverpool, and the Canadian Pacific Railway Company, also gratuitously furnished drays and draymen to cart the 21,640 pounds from the docks to Edge Lane.
"In behalf of the Elders and Saints of the British Mission permit me to thank you and, through you, all those who have in any way contributed, either of their time or means, to this magnificent gift to the poor in this land. Only those who have had to help handle these scores of two-hundred-weight bales and from two hundred to nine hundred pound crates can realize what a stupendous undertaking it was to ship three car loads of shoes, clothing, etc., from Salt Lake City to Europe.
"All praise to the Relief Society and to all other members
NOTES FROM THE FIELD 421
of the Church and friends who have participated in this philanthropic work. In this expression of praise and appreciation, the railroads and steamship companies share.
"There is a special meeting of conference presidents of the British Mission in London, April 5, at which the final distribution of the clothing will be made to the different branches throughout Great Britain.
"The ready response to a call for help, the united effort in a worthy cause, the masterful manner in handling many tons of goods at a minimum of expense, the organization already at hand to give the gifts to those for whom they are intended—all this is simply another demonstration of the effective working of the social phase of the Church of Christ. It brings salvation and peace here and now. 'By their fruits ye shall know them.'
"Affectionately yours, (Signed) David O. McKay."
"Dear Sisters of the General Board: Two or three days ago, when four truck loads of clothing and shoes were brought to Durham House, our hearts rejoiced; for we knew what a blessing the articles will be to many of our Saints here in the British Isles. One of the presidents of conferences to whom I gave the information of this gift from our beloved sisters at home, said, with tears in his eyes, 'I shall be very glad when the articles come as they are needed badly in our part of the mission.' Undoubtedly all the other presidents feel the same. No one except those who have helped can realize the work of sending such an immense amount of clothing as has been received here. God bless our Utah women for this magnificent contribution.
"Equally acceptable, if not more so, even than the clothing, is the check of $388.04 received today. Money is needed for food for our old people throughout the mission. We wish to thank everyone, the men as well as the women, who have helped to pack and handle the heavy loads preparatory for shipment.
"Most of our Relief Societies in the European Mission are doing good work and trying to the best of their ability to carry out the wishes of the General Board. Much stress has been laid this past year, first, on the proper handling of funds; secondly, on the government of the society; and thirdly, on the study of the Magazine, and various minor points. All through the British Isles the Relief Societies are doing very commendable work, raising funds for the needy by means of sewing, bazaars, and entertainments, and except in three or four conferences, are studying lessons from the Magazine.
"Recently the North London and South London Relief Societies united and gave what has been pronounced to have been one of the most unique socials ever given in London. This was
422 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
done in commemoration of the seventeenth of March. This interesting entertainment which consisted of a sort of pageant, representing the journey of the 'Mormon' pioneers across the plains, and their entry into the valley, was given under the direction of Sister Katherine Wright, wife of Joseph E. Wright, President of the London conference. Several covered wagons decorated with the paraphernalia illustrating the pioneers' traveling across the plains, were set up in the hall, forming a circle and everything arranged like a camp on the plains. The Saints were divided into companies with one of the brethren at the head of each. Elders were dressed up to represent President Brigham Young, Elders Orson Pratt, Heber C. Kimball, William Clayton, and other Church Leaders, who were in charge of the companies. All this was most impressive to these people who had not seen the like before. The difficult part for them to understand was the cheerfulness portrayed. Some felt it to be sacrilege to act in a smiling manner, until it was explained that cheerfulness was a characteristic of the Saints even under the most adverse circumstances.
"Many calls have been made from women in Germany for lessons, and thinking that the lessons in the Magazine at present are a bit difficult to begin with, we selected thirty-six lessons from the Magazines of 1921 and 1922, and two capable elders, William A. Monson and C. Kenneth Schade, worked on the typewriter fifteen days, typing these lessons for Germany, Sweden, Norway, Denmark, Switzerland, the Netherlands, Belgium, and Armenia.
NOTES FROM THE FIELD 423
"President Tadje of Germany has had the lessons translated by Brother Jean Wunderlich, and Brother McKay reports from his visit there that the sisters are taking up the lessons with great energy and delight. The whooping cough siege of our children prevented my visiting the conferences this time through Germany, but from the few statistics gleaned from Brother McKay's reports, you will know the Relief Society is becoming an important factor in that part of the world. While these statistics relate only to the attendance, I am pleased to say that in other respects as well, they are doing excellent work and are following the printed suggestions sent over to them. In the Steindamm branch the membership of the Relief Society is thirty, with an average attendance of fifty-five. The Centrum Relief Society in Berlin has a membership of ninety-two, with an average weekly attendance of sixty. The Ost Relief Society has a membership of forty-seven, average attendance of forty-three. The Moabite Society, membership sixty-eight, average weekly attendance, sixty-five. The Spandau Branch has a total membership of only eighty-two, but the Relief Society enrollment is twenty-two, with an average weekly attendance of sixteen. And so I might go on, but this will suffice to show that many of the women of the Church in Germany are attending Relief Society.
"One of the best societies visited this last year was the one in Copenhagen. Everything except our Magazine work, which the president had not then received, was strictly up to date. Lessons were studied, prayer meeting observed, every family visited monthly by teachers, sick and needy cared for, and over two hundred dollars in the treasury. A beautiful spirit for receiving any new, good suggestion was very manifest.
"I was delighted also with our visit to Aleppo, Armenia. To see the way President Booth has trained the women to do Relief Society work was a joy. Although naturally timid and backward, every woman can get up and talk to a text from ten to twenty minutes; they sing our songs in English without books and without knowing the English language; they make clothing for the needy and help care for the sick; teachers make weekly visits, and all are studying the Magazine through the kindness of Brother Booth's translation. After hearing those women talk, I felt that there is no excuse for any one of our women, either here or at home to refuse to arise to her feet and try to express herself. It was an inspiring lesson. The Relief Society meeting was held in a room decorated for Christmas. For the conference began on the Armenian Christmas day, the 19th of January. Stretched on the wall opposite the entrance, was a nine-by-twelve hand-woven rug which belongs to one of the sisters. Above the rug were pencil drawing of the Prophet Joseph Smith, of the Angel Moroni, and
424 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
the Salt Lake temple. These were done by a designer of carpet patterns and were very beautiful. Two American flags were pinned on the carpet. On each side of the rostrum were two decorated Christmas trees. The floors were covered with handmade rugs upon which the people sat in their stocking feet. These people are very loving and emotional and a person visiting them is loath to leave.
Very sincerely yours, (Signed) Emma Ray McKay."
Pioneer Stake.
One of the most charmingly appointed banquets held in connection with the anniversary of the organization of the Relief Society, was that given in Pioneer stake in joint honor of the Society's birthday and the twentieth anniversary of the organization of Pioneer stake. The banquet was held in the stake hall, which was resplendent with potted plants and tastefully decorated in green and white. The guests were seated at long tables arranged in the annex, which bore crystal baskets of white carnations and green foliage, with silver candlesticks, green candles, place-cards and napkins, carrying out the unique color scheme. At each place was an individual birthday cake, in miniature, whose candles were lighted, with the hall darkened. During the progress of the banquet music was dispensed by a select orchestra. Mrs. Emily C. Willey of the stake Relief Society presidency was toastmistress and under her intelligent direction toasts were responded to by a number of those present. Mrs. Mary A. Cutler, president, gave the address of welcome. Special guests of honor were the stake presidency, members of the High Council, officers of the auxiliary organizations and members of the General Board, including President Clarissa S. Williams, Mrs. Louise Y. Robinson, Mrs. Amy Brown Lyman and their husbands. Following the banquet there was a musical program under the direction of Mrs. Mabel Poulton Kirk and community singing, games, etc., led by Miss Charlotte Stewart. Salt Lake Stake. On Tuesday, March 18th the Salt Lake Stake Relief Society celebrated the 17th of March anniversary, by giving a social in the Twenty-second ward chapel, which was attended by six hundred Relief Society women. A spicy program was given, consisting of character sketches, readings, and musical numbers, by twelve wards of the stake, and the Relief Society stake choir. A splendid luncheon was served. Mexican Mission. On the 19th of March, the El Paso Branch of the Mexican Relief Society, celebrated the 82nd anniversary of the Relief Society at the Mexican Mission Home, 3531 Ft. Boulevard, El NOTES FROM THE FIELD  425 Paso, Texas. The rooms were attractively decorated in red, white, and green, the colors of the Mexican flag. Pretty baskets of sweet peas and jonquils also adorned the rooms. A very fine program was arranged. Musical numbers were given by the native sisters and missionaries. Addresses were also made by the native sisters on the lives of the five former presidents of the Society. Sister Rey L. Pratt, president of the Mexican Mission Relief Societies, then gave a summary of the work of these noble characters. President J. A. Balderas of the El Paso branch of the Mexican Mission, gave a toast to the Society, and encouraged the members in their good work. After the program, refreshments were served. Sixty-five people were present. Maricopa Stake. An all-day celebration of the Relief Society anniversary was held in Mesa, Arizona, attended by two hundred thirty women from the four Mesa wards. A fine program was rendered, beginning at 10:30; lunch was served at noon, which was furnished by the wards and a program was given in the afternoon by stake officers. Prizes were given for various activities. There were seven sisters present over eighty years of age, sixteen over seventy, and a great many between sixty and seventy. White, blue and red badges were pinned upon them. A leap year party or dance at night finished the very successful day. Phoenix, Chandler, Gilbert and Pine observed the day in their respective wards. Juab Stake. The Juab Stake Relief Society observed the annual day in 2 very fitting way. A dance was given at which refreshments were served to a very large crowd, and during the evening the Glee Club men from the A. C. Sang two numbers and a very enjoyable. Time was had. On Tuesday in each of the wards a special program was given, including papers on the organization. Guide Lessons for October LESSON I Theology and Testimony (First Week in October) THE PARABLES OF THE SAVIOR (Continued) The Good Shepherd—John 10:1-16. "Verily, verily, I say unto you, He that entereth not by the door into the sheepfold, but climeth up some other way, the same is a thief and a robber. "But he that entereth in by the door is the shepherd of the sheep. "To him the porter openeth; and the sheep hear his voice: and he calleth his own sheep by name, and leadeth them out. "And when he putteth forth his own sheep, he goeth before them, and the sheep follow him: for they know his voice. "And a stranger will they not follow, but will flee from him: for they know not the voice of strangers. "This parable spake Jesus unto them: but they understood not what things they were which he spake unto them. "Then said Jesus unto them again, Verily, verily, say unto you, I am the door of the sheep. "And all that ever came before me are thieves and robbers: but the sheep. Did not hear them. "I am the door: by me if any man enter in, he shall be saved, and shall go in and out, and find pasture. "The thief cometh not, but for to steal, and to kill, and to destroy: I am come that they might hae life, and that they might have it more abundantly. "I am the good shepherd: the good shegitteed giveth his life for the sheep. "But he that is an hireling, and not the shepherd, whose own the sheep are not, seeth the wolf coming and leaveth' the sheep, and fleeth: and the wolf catcheth them, and scattereth the sheep. "The hireling fleeth, because he is an hireling, and careth not for the sheep. "T am the good shepherd, and know my sheep, and am known of mine. "As the Father knoweth me, even so know I the Father: and I lay down my life for the sheep. "And other sheep I have, which are not of this fold: them also I must bring, and they shall hear my voice; and there shall be one fold, and one shepherd." In this parable the Savior declares himself to be the only GUIDE LESSONS FOR-OCTOBER 427 savior of mankind. He sets forth the importance of interest in the individual as well as in the group, and he illustrates the superiority of gratuitous service. In the Orient the flocks are small, and each sheep is given a name to which the sheep responds when called. The shepherd is more than a sheep herder; he goes ahead of his flock leading them "into green pastures," instead of driving them as is the custom in the West. There naturally grows up an attachment between the shepherd and each member of the flock, which transcends the mercenary interests of a flock owner, be his possessions ever so numerous. The good shepherd was a fitting illustration of a man of mercy and sacrifice. Those to whom Jesus spoke this parable knew what it was to be a good shepherd and so he made their interest in tending sheep the point of contact to which he brought himself as the Good Shepherd of the race, who loved to the extent of laying down his life for each individual. Everyone may know that without the Christ mission, with its love, its teachings, and its sacrifice, no individual can escape the approach of the wolf selfishness and the devouring of the soul by greed.. Without the Christ there may be existence, but without him there cannot be life: because life, spiritual life, means light, liberty and love. And this is what he meant when he said, "I am come that they might have life, and that more abundantly." The good shepherd led his sheep high into the mountains where the feed was abundant; the hireling was content to let them browse on the moor. So the ideality of Christ leads mankind to the higher life, the abundance of happiness which is everlasting; a life which gets more out of giving than receiving; a life that looks upon gratuitous service as the service which is twice blessed, blessing both the servant and the served, but the servant most by making him the recipient of an everlasting, ever-increasing reward, the reward of being more rather than the reward of deg more, becoming like him who said, "I am the good sheperd.; The Parable of the Lost Sheep—Matt. 18:12-14; Luke 15:3-7. "How think ye? If a man have an hundred sheep, and one of them be gone astray, doth he not leave the ninety and nine, and goeth into the mountains, and seeketh that which is gone astray? "And if so be that he find it, verily I say unto you, he rejoiceth more of that sheep, then of the ninety and nine which went not. Astray." Matt. 18 12-14. "What man of you, having an hundred sheep, if he lose one ~ of them, doth not leave the ninety and nine in the wilderness, and go after that which is lost, until he find it? _ "And when he hath found it, he layeth it on his shoulders, rejoicing. 428. ~ RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE "And when he cometh home, he calleth together his friends and neighbors, saying unto them, Rejoice with me; for I have found my sheep which was lost." Luke 15:4-7. It is said that Jesus spoke 'this parable to rebuke the Pharisees who complained that the Savior received sinners and ate with them; but he evidently had a greater purpose than such a temporary one: he was teaching the importance of reclaiming the lost, calling back those who stray away. In the parable of the Prodigal Son it was made plain that the first step towards reclamation is forgiveness. In the parable of the lost sheep forgiveness is taken for granted: the man seeking the wanderer from the flock, thinks only of finding and bringing back the lost sheep. He leaves the ninety and nine not because they are of less value than the one, but because the one has more need of him than the ninety and nine. Here, as in the parable of the good shepherd, the Savior emphasizes the importance of centralizing interest and effort on the individual. The exquisiteness of the joy of repossessing is the result of Nature's attempt at compensation. In it there is a partial pay for the pain coming from the consciousness of having lost something. In paragraph seven the ninety and nine just persons referred to are the self-righteous persons, those who in their own estimation are so good that a thing is right merely because they do it. These are the persons upon whom repentance has no claim, and the Savior made it clear that one honest repentant sinner was a source of more joy in heaven than ninety-nine unrepentant, self-righteous people. The Parable of the Lost Money—Luke 15:8-10. "Either what woman having ten pieces of silver, if she lose one piece doth not light a candle, and sweep the house, and seek diligently till she find it? "And when she hath found it, she calleth her friends and her neighbors together, saying, Rejoice with me; for I have found the piece which I had lost." Here again the Savior teaches the importance of reclaiming the sinner and illustrates the effectiveness of making the reclamation the center of Christ's interest and the chief objective of one's efforts. The ten pieces of silver were the ten coins of silver that formed the necklace of a married woman. The absence of one of these coins was a reproach whether by misfortune or by wilfulness until the coin was found and the set completed. There was cause for sorrow and distress. On the completeness of the set of coins depended the completeness of the happiness of the woman and so, on the completeness of the family circle in a measure depends the happiness of the family, But the big point in this parable is the necessity and value of reclaiming the wayward so that GUIDE LESSONS FOR OCTOBER  429 "one may say even to the persistent wrong doer: "How often would I have reclaimed you, but ye would not."  In the parable, the woman lights a candle to aid her in the search; she sweeps. In reclaiming the wayward there must be light, the best light we can obtain, the light that comes from study, and by faith. There must be labor, the labor of humility, the labor that brings into activity every means within our reach. We must sweep with society, that is, reach out and down into the very slums of society for the erring ones, and with a reach that is at once individual and institutional. QUESTIONS AND PROBLEMS 1. Distinguish between the righteousness spoken of in Matt. 6:33 and the self-righteousness of the Pharisees that brought forth the parable of the "Lost Sheep" and of the "Lost Piece of Money." 2. To what kind of people did Jesus refer in speaking of the "ninety and nine that need no repentance?" 3. Discuss the relative value of waiting for people to reform and of helping them to reform. 4. How does the parable of the "Lost Piece of Money" show that we should leave nothing undone that can be done for the reclamation of the wayward? 5. Wherein does the parable of the "Lost Piece of Money" teach that reciamation of the wayward is essential to complete happiness?, 6. Discuss the thought: The abundance of joy coming from the reformation of the wrong-doer is compensative for the sorrow occasioned by the conduct of the transgressor. 7. Compare sinning in order to reform with getting ill for the sake of getting well, or maiming oneself for the joy of being "patched up." 8. Show the perniciousness, or the "damnableness," of the expectation that sin will make a holiday in heaven, or the doctrine of "Sinning to make a holiday in heaven." 9. In the light of Christ's warnings against sin and in the light of his sinless life, is it orthodoxy or heterodoxy to teach that the road through hades to heaven is the one that leads to the highest joy? 10. Show how the parable of "The Lost Sheep" and the "Lost Piece of Money" are still a rebuke to the haughty and are encouragement to the humble. Work and Business (Second Week in October) GUIDE LESSONS FOR OCTOBER * ~~ 431 the same ship with John Winthrop. John Hawthorne, a son of — William, was the judge who figured to no small extent in the ill-starred trials of the witches. Of these two persons Hawthorne writes, "I seem to have a stronger claim to a residence here on account of this grave, bearded, sable-cloaked and steeple-crowned progenitor,—who came so early, with his Bible and his sword, and trode the unworn street with such a stately port, and made so large a figure, as a man of war and peace. * * * His son, too, inherited the persecuting spirit." Hawthorne thought a good deal about this unpleasant family connection, and wrote that this judge of the second generation "made himself so conspicuous in the martyrdom of the witches, that their blood may fairly be said to have left a stain upon him. * * * I, the present writer, as their representative, hereby take shame upon myself for their sakes, and pray that any curse incurred by them—as I have heard, and as the dreary and unprosperous condition of the race, for many a long year back, would argue to exist—may be now and henceforth removed." "Hawthorne lived in Salem in several different houses in turn, and in one of these houses, the house on Herbert Street, where he lived as a boy and as a young man, and twice at different periods afterwards, he wrote, in 1840, 'If ever I should have a biographer he ought to make great mention of this chamber in my memoirs, because here my mind and character were formed. By and by, the world found me out in my lonely chamber;' and it was of this Herbert Street house that he wrote, 'In this dismal chamber Fame was won.” The author was the sixth in descent from the first New England ancestor and the first to add a "w" to his name. His father was a sea captain who died of a fever in a foreign port when the child was four years of age. Hawthorne's mother was twentyseven years old at this time, and for forty years after this sad event she is said to have taken her meals all alone, apart from her three children. Everybody in that house became accustomed to loneliness. At the age of fourteen, the boy went to live for a while on the shores of Sebago Lake, Maine. "I lived in Maine," he said, "like a bird of the air, so perfect was the freedom I enjoyed; but it was there I got my first habit of solitude."" Some telief was given to this atmosphere of sorrow, so permanent in the household, by the boy's two sisters and his indulgent uncles and aunts. He tended his pets and rambled and read, and seems to have enjoyed life much as other boys do. He was very shy and very much embarrassed at meeting people. His solitariness predisposed him to reading, and we are told that Bunyan's Pilgrim's Progress and Shakespeare's plays were special favorites. The first was rather unfortunate for a boy of his temperament, 432 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE as gloom was already too much of his inheritance and environment, Spenser's Faery Queen was the first book he bought with his own money. The allegory and romance in the poem seem to have taken a real hold of him, for he named his daughter Una after one of Spenser's allegorical heroines, and following a still further suggestion in the Faery Queen called the large cat that came to be her playmate, Lion. Hawthorne stands in a double relation to the Puritan spirit of his ancestors and birthplace. Sprung from a Puritan ancestry, he inherits and shares certain Puritan traits, yet in manhood he had outgrown its intolerance and severity; consequently he paints the picture of Puritan life, on the one hand, with a realism and exactness with which it has seldom been painted; and, on the other hand, he expresses the deepest revulsion against the intolerance and reactionary forces of that life. Mr. Pancoast, in speaking of this matter, says: "When we regard Hawthorne as an inheritor of the past, we see how deeply his life and character are rooted in his native soil. For generations the family had lived in Salem, a spot which seemed the very heart of New England Puritanism." Nearly all his boyhood and a part of his later years were spent in that old home of his ancestors, and his brooding and keenly sensitive nature was thus forced into contact with the melancholy memories of its past. He realized all the shortcomings of colonial Puritanism and portrayed its "grim rigidity" with unsparing severity. Yet we must not think this picture had no bright side. Salem, like the cities of Boston and Philadelphia, has a Chestnut street. A very well informed writer on this subject assures us "that there can be no possible appreciation of Salem without going from end to end of Chestnut street. It is in itself remarkably American. Among the most interesting streets of America are Chestnut street of Salem, Chestnut street of Boston, Chestnut street of Philadelphia; and each of these has justly been deemed a street with much old American charm of architecture, each has been a stronghold of aristocratic living, each has still much of the flavor of the past, each is a street of houses of beauty and good taste, and all these three Chestnut streets still preserve a great degree of their original felicitousness, even though a greater part of the Chestnut street of Philadelphia has lapsed into business. Salem is strong in the belief that of the other Chestnut streets, its own has always been the best. That is no small thing to say of the best street of a little city like Salem. These houses on Chestnut street were built in the first quarter of the 1800's by the rich merchants of that period, so that we have not only a superb line of mansions well kept up, but also the most superb line of huge trees that over-arch the entire length 434  RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE the war, was cordially received by the villagers, and appeared to be more interested in them than formerly. His health showed signs of breaking. Early in 1864, Dr. Oliver Wendell Holmes advised Hawthorne to take a quiet tour, though neither physician nor patient had any confidence in the outcome. On this tour Hawthorne started with Pierce as companion. The end came in Plymouth, New Hampshire, where they had stopped for the night. He was buried in Sleepy Hollow Cemetery, Concord. QUESTIONS AND PROBLEMS 1. Name other trees than the Chestnut tree that reminds one of New England. 2. What trait of human nature was responsible for the hanging of the witches? 3.° Tell the story of The Scarlet Letter. 4. Wherein is the spirit of intolerance made manifest in this story? 5. Which article of Faith of Latter-day Saints argues for tolerance? 6. Give an illustration of tolerance bearing desirable fruit. Social Service LESSON IV (Fourth Week in October ) Social Aspects of a Community Health Program The significance of health cannot be overemphasized in studying the problems of social adjustment. The degree of health enjoyed by an individual controls in a large measure his success. And happiness. An individual's economic status, his attitude toward the other problems of living, are all influenced by his state of well-being. Ill health is very often the underlying factor of other social pathology. Sickness, or a low degree of physical vigor, may be the cause of an unsatisfactory employment record, of bad housekeeping, of the neglect of children, and of the more subtle undermining influences of family life—morbidness, apathy, and discouragement. Beacuse of the increasing realization of the significance of physical well-being, communities everywhere are undertaking certain definite responsibilities for the protection and preservation of health. The first responsibility that communities generally assume is that of a protective nature—quarantining individuals with communicable diseases, and supervising 'the water supply. Later GUIDE LESSONS FOR OCTOBER. 435 developments of public health protection are the inspecticn and supervision of the milk supply, of public eating houses, of the disposal of refuse, etc. Invaluable and fundamental as these protective measures are, they are only a first step in a thorough community health program. Very soon, in any social group, there develops a sense of responsibility for the care and comfort of those who are ill. Consequently, some facilities are usually created for the care of the sick; physicians, nurses, and hospitals are made available, not only for those who can easily afford medical service, but for those whose incomes cannot cover such items as expensive medical care, In the last few decades public interest in health has been extended even further.' Two developments, both dependent on social treatment, have marked a change in conception of the community towards the health standards of its members. The first of these comparatively new trends has been the understanding and treatment of undesirable social conditions that impair the patient's chances for recovery, or that contributes to ill health. A physician may prescribe braces, or glasses, or special diet for a child, but unless there are community facilities for providing this treatment, some children will suffer because of the family's inability to follow the physician's advice. The breadwinner of a family may be told by the physicians to take a long period of rest, but unless some social agency is willing to assume a financial and supervisory interest, the physician's advice, in many cases, must be ignored. Financial help and an encouraging friend are-as essential as the actual medical advice in achieving certain recoveries. The second development in a community health program is _based on a changing emphasis in the medical profession. The physician no longer feels that his only function is to treat those who are ill. It is much better economy to preserve health than to restore it when broken. So frequent physical examinations are advised, not only for the sick, but for those who are apparently well. The early detection of abnormalities makes 'the treatment simpler and increases the possibility of a complete recovery. This increased emphasis on the preservation of health has led to several movements to spread medical educatiou. The lessons of personal hygienic care, the need of proper and sufficient diet, rest and exercise, etc., is being more generally taught by phyisicians and educational institutions. School children are weighed and measured, regularly, and are early instructed in hygiene. Mothers are sought out by public nurses or are urged to attend health stations, so that infants and pre-school children may be examined and thus abnormalities corrected. 436 ~~ RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE The program of health preservation is as much a" social function as a medical one. The existence of a health examination clinic, for instance, in a city does not mean that those who most need the examination and advice will seek it out. A certain fear of medical institutions, and a natural faith that most humans have that their own illness is not serious, make it difficult to have health examinations as general as they should be. What is often needed to convert a person to attend a clinic or call on a physician is an interested person who is skillful in understandny people, in overcoming prejudices, and in changing attitudes. The same timidity and fear that keeps people from securing medical advice, often makes them reluctant to follow the advice after it has been given. From-both a practical and ethical viewpoint the physician cannot over-persuade patients to follow his advice. It often requires a social worker, a nurse, or an interested friend to encourage the patient to place himself under treatment. A mother of several children was sure that her youngest child, who had some obvious impairment of his legs, would "grow out of" his difficulty. It first took hours of patient and kindly urging to have the mother take the child to a physician, and many more hours of skillful persuading to secure the mother's consent to have the child wear the prescribed braces. QUESTIONS AND PROBLEMS 1. What is the first function of a Board of Health? 2. What other health agencies are established in your community? (City, County, or State). 3. Which function as public protective agencies? Which care for the sick? Which aim to preserve health? 4. Why is it difficult to change a person's attitude toward his own illness and the need of treatment? Teachers' Topic for October Reading "Yea, seek you out of the best books words of wisdom, seek learning even by study and also by faith."—Doc. And Cov. Sec. 88-118. "Search the Scriptures for in them ye think ye have eternal life.'—John 5:59. A. Proper supervision of children's reading by parents. B. Occasional inventory of home library for purpose of eliminating undesirable books. C. We recommend reading of the Scriptures on home evening or Sabbath evenings in family circle. Mothers Know! Mothers know the value of helpful discipline. Undoubtedly that's why the demand of the University of Utah for seriousmindedness on the part of its students is so widely appreciated. Young men and young women must work if they remain at this great State School. Wondrous opportunity for training is afforded! Almost every branch of learning may be followed here. Mothers will appreciate especially the Home Economics department under the ab'e direction of Prof. Rose Homer Widtsoe. The School of Education is training the teachers of Utah. No examination of University graduates is retuired by the State for teacher certification. Your boys and girls will find a real opportunity for achievement at this institution. Arrange now for them to attend. REGISTRATION SEPT. 25-26-27 For additional Information address the President University of Utah SALT LAKE CITY A BEET SUGAR FROSTING 2 cups of beet sugar. 1 cup of water. Place on stove and boil until syrup drops from the spoon. Have whites of two eggs whipped until the bowl in which they are prepared can be turned ame down and yet the eggs remain in the bowl. Pour the boiling hot syrup into the egg whites and whip until cool. Spread on cake. A GOOD PLAIN CAKE Whip together 1 cup of beet sugar. 4 cup of butter. The yolks of 2 eggs left from the frosting just made. 1 cup milk, 2 cups flour. 3 tspn. Baking powder. 1 tspn. Flavoring. Sift flour four times, the last time put in the baking 'powder, fold in the other ingredients. Bake in layers or in large cake. Frost with beet sugar frosting. Fresh coconut may be sprinkled between and on top of cake which makes a pleasing addition. Beet sugar makes a most delicious table syrup. 2 cups water 4 cups beet sugar. Boil until it begins to spin a rather heavy drop from the spoon; put in small piece of butter. Flavor with maple flavoring which can be purchased at the corner grocery store. Put in jar and use on waffles, pancakes or hot biscuits. DENSITY OF SYRUPS 1 pt. Beet sugar to 1 gill water makes syrup 40° density. 1 pt. Beet sugar to 1 pint water makes syrup 32° density. 1 pt. Beet sugar to 14 pints water makes syrup 24° density. 1 pt. Beet sugar to 114 pints water makes syrup 17° density. 1 pt. Beet sugar to 2 pints water makes syrup 14° density. For preserving cherries, strawberries, etc., use a syrup of 40° density, For preserving currants, peaches, plums and quince, etc., use a density of from 32° to 24° density. For canning blackberries, cherries, peaches, pears, plums raspberries use a syrup of 17° to 14° density. 'Syrups for use in canning are made by boiling beet sugar with water at 212 degrees Fahrenheit. All impurities which rise to the top should be carefully removed with a spoon until the syrup appears clear and transparent. Western canners usually use 1 1/2 pints of sugar to 1 pint of water, while the Eastern canners use 1 pint of sugar to 1 1/2 pints of water. This accounts for the greater popularity of the Western fruits. Compare the Pages of Che Deseret News with those of any other paper. Notice that while the paper is clean and fit for any child to read it is also interesting and informative in the highest sense—And you get "TODAY'S NEWS TODAY" Temple Block Individual Sacrament Sets Now in Stock BEST IN THE MARKET WILL LAST A LIFE TIME  36 GLASSES IN EACH TRAY RECOMMENDED BY PATRONS, REFERENCES FURNISHED Made especially for L. D. S. Churches, and successfully used in Utah and_Intermountain region, also in all Missions in the United States, Europe, and Pacific Islands. Basic metal, Nickel Silver, heavily plated with Solid Silver. SIMPLE, SANITARY, DURABLE Satisfaction guaranteed Inquiries cheerfully answered THE LATEST ACKNOWLEDGMENT "I am in receipt of the Individual Sacrament Set, consisting of four trays and 'the proper number of glasses. "Everything arrived in good condition. We are very pleased with it. I take this BUREAU OF INFORMATION Salt Lake City —— occasion to thank you for your kindness." Bishop's Office, Bern, Idaho, May 2, 1921.: , Glazier and Taylor HOSIERY COMPANY 33 EAST BROADWAY A Store Dealing in Quality Hosiery and Underware Exclusively Heavy Silk Full-Fashioned, all colors A wonderful nose for wear Box of Three Pate Silk Semi-Fashioned, ait colors, beautiful and durable Rey eka es $1.50 Box of Three Pairs.. $4.25 Sik with Extra Stretch Elastic Top, the Comfort Stocking Per Pair... $1.65 Box of Three Pairs $4.75 Pure Silk, Semi-Fashioned, very durable All Colors Per Pair $1.05 Holeproof Box of Three Pair$3.00  MAIL ORDERS PREPAID A Book of "Poems "The Beautiful Valley of Utah" By Mrs. J. Long, 50c per copy., Eureka, Utah, Box 129. When ordering mention Relief Society Magazine.  $1.50 Delivered postpaid to your home. Printed with your name and address in fine blue plate Gothic.. (Not more than 3 lines). Send Money with order. Write plainly. Universal ation Supply Co. 315—24th Street OGDEN, UTAH  They’re the BEST  PORK and BEANS  Pierce's Pork and Beans, always ready, insure a healthful and nourishing meal. Everlastingly backed by THE UTAH CANNING CO., OGDEN, UTAH iG JZ No Difference Between Refined Beet and Refined Cane Sugar The highly trained chemist with all his elaborate laboratory equipment is not able to distinguish between BEET and ~CANE Sugar. BEET SUGAR produced in Utah and Idaho is of the highest developed refined process, which removes all impurities and yields an unexcelled quality of pure, white, fine, clean BEET SUGAR. BEET SUGAR can be used for all purposes with entire success. Europeans, with a reputation for making the finest of preserves and confections, prefer BEET SUGAR. Keep your money in circulation at home. Patronize a great HOME INDUSTRY—one that gives employment to thousands and insures a profitable crop for the farmers. BUY BEET SUGAR. JOHN SCOWCROFTS SONS BLUE PINE OLIVE OIL is derived from the choicest French ripe olives. It is full flavor and full strength, in containers that keep it sweet and pure. The best oil you can buy for salads and dressings. Equally dependable and good for all other olive oil uses. Demand the Blue Pine brand. Other BLUE PINE products SCOWCROFT produce Mention Relief Society Magazine RELEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE VOL. XI SEPTEMBER, 1924 NO. 9 CONTENTS  Annie Pike Greenwood 437 The Mountains Shall be Laid Low-----Thomas L. Martin 439 Editorial—Another Centenary—September..... 18241924 456 Elizabeth Claridge McCune....Cache Valley 458 School Lunches Ethel Melville 459 Etiquette The New Dentist.......................... Pearl Nelson 470 Notes from the Field Amy Brown Lyman 472 Cheerfulness 2000.... Coral J. Black 477 Guide Lessons for November—Theology and Testimony.......... Literature  Social Service: Teachers' Topic for November.......................... 489 Organ of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints Room 20 Bishop's Bldg. Salt Lake City, Utah $1.00 a Year—Single Copy, 10c Canada and Foreign, $1.25 a Year—Il5c Single Copy Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office. Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Blake's 2 Home Hints Some one has said that after all the real test of a good cook is her lemon pie. You may not agree with that entirely, for every one has her own favorite dish—but a good lemon pie is at least an accomplishment of which any cook can be proud. I have found the following recipe dependable—and that pies made by it are sure to be praised. Lemon Cream Pie 1 cup sugar, 2 tbsp. Butter, 4 tbsp. Lemon juice, 1 1/4 cup boiling water, 3 egg yolks, 3/4 flour, 1/2 cup Carnation Milk, 1/2 tsp. Grated lemon rind. Mix flour and sugar, add boiling water, stirring constantly. Cook 5 minutes; add butter, the beaten egg yolks, Carnation Milk, the lemon juice and rind. Line plate with pastry, bake in hot oven. Cool. Fill with the lemon cream mixture. Cover with meringue, bake in a slow oven until the meringue is a golden brown. This recipe makes one pie. Meringue 3 egg whites, 1/2 cup powdered sugar, 4 tsp. Lemon extract. Beat eggs until stiff, add sugar, slowly beating all the time. Flavor. AN INTERMOUNTAIN PRODUCT Evaporated Carnation Milk Temple and Burial Clothes Complete Suits For Men and Women Variety of Grades and Prices" Prompt and Careful Attention to Mail—Telephone—Telegraph Orders Open Daily, 9 a. M.—5 p. M. General Board Relief Society 23 Bishop's Building Salt Lake City, Utah Phone Wasatch 3286 sy; THE UTAH CHAP. TERS OF THE AMERICAN RED CROSS are planning a state conference to be held in Salt Lake City August 30th. Dr. Thomas E. Green of the National Headquarters, Washington D. C., will be the chief speaker at the conference. Dr. Green will speak at the regular service in the Tabernacle Sunday, August 3lst and it is desired that all éhapter delegates plan to hear Dr. Green at that time. YJ W. M. McCONAHAY THE JEWELER 64So. Main. - Phone Was. 1821 Salt Lake City, Utah When Shopping Mention Relief Society Magazine — Ladies of the Relief Society and Other Organizations Order your flowers from the Ideal Floral Company Fresh Cut Flowers Every Morning 38 South Main — To Our Magazine Subscribers We call your attention to the very high class firms who advertise in the Magazine, and ask, whenever possible, to give them your loyal support and patronage. Also kindly mention having read their advertisement in the Magazine. We hope by your assistance to prove our value as a medium through which to advertise.  Magazine Management 7, Phone Wasatch 3414 Night Phone Hyland 5303- IMPROVED L. D. S. GARMENTS The "Temple Brand" garments are handled only by leading dealers, if you cannot get just what you want select it from this list and send order direct to us. We prepay postage to all parts of the United States. Samples submitted on request. GARMENTS WITH STRINGS Style; Price. Style Price No. 75 Med. Heavy Cotton..$2.50 No. 3 Domestic Lisle..........$1.75 No. 15 Extra Spe. Flat Weave 1.50 No. 25 Double Back Lt. Wt. 1.85 NEW STYLE WITH BUTTONS AND LONG OR SHORT SLEEVES For Ladies: For Men: Style Price Style. Price No. 815 Flat weave............. 150 No. 915 Flat Weave.................1.75 SAVE AGENT'S COMMISSION—BUY DIRECT FROM FACTORY Salt Lake Knitting Store 70 Main Street — Salt Lake City, Utah In sending orders mention Magazine & Ga Ask your dealer for Z. C. M. I. Factory Made Kiddies' Allovers DUTCH CUT They are the famous Mountaineer Brand in dark blue, light blue, striped and khaki Mothers—they are just what you need for the little tots—and the kid. Dies like them too —J Super No. 1 Flat Weave Cot..$.95 Super No. 2 Ribbed super cot. 1.25 No. 803 Ribbed Lt. Wt............... 1.65 No. 850 Lisle Gause.................. 2.50 No. 862 Mere. Gause Lt. Wt... 275 No. 903 Ribbed Lt. Wte.............$1.75 No. 950 Lisle Lt. Wt.................0 2.75 No. 925 Ribbed Med. Wt......... 2.00 No. 975 Med. Heavy Cot........... 2.25 No. 9175 Med, Half Wool........ 3.50 The Dust of the Country Road Annie Pike Greenwood e dust of the country road lies quiet and dull. As I watch a spot stir, it waves and rises and whirls; Down the street it goes whirling in ecstatic freedom, Goes whirling and sinking and rising, It is the dust of one who has lain through the year, Yearning and dreaming until it has passioned the strength to be 'up and away. -.. *~ I, too, am dust, I, too, yearn and dream, O happy dust, when shall I rise and away? Living dust, nothing can rise of itself, I lay here praying, expectant, awaiting "Til the arms of God, thru His breezes, Lifted me up and bade me begone A UTAH MOUNTAIN SCENE THE Relief Society Magazine Vol. XI. SEPTEMBER, 1924 No. 9 The Mountains Shall be Laid Low Thomas L. Martin, Prof. Of Agronomy B. Y, U. Prova, Utah "Let the waters under the heaven be gathered together unto one place, and let the dry land appear; and it was so. "And God called the dry land earth; and the gathering together of the waters called he seas; and God saw that it was good. "And God said, Let the earth bring forth grass, the herb yielding seed, and the fruit tree yielding fruit after its kind, whose seed is in itself, upon the earth; and it was so." The quotation above is a part of the interesting account of the creation of the earth. Rocks that were exposed, after the waters had been gathered into one place, were rapidly acted upon by nature's elements and some of them were broken down into soil. In the bed thus prepared the seeds sprouted and came forth as grass, herbs and fruits, each yielding after its kind. The forces that were used at that time to produce soil from - the rocks, have been discovered by man in his efforts to subdue nature. A study of these forces is an effort on the part of man to find out how God did, and is continually doing, this great work. There are few things more fascinating than a study of nature. Nearly every person who delves into these problems becomes impressed with the feeling that there is ever present in the earth, a higher source, a power that gives comfort to man in this practical work, and lifts him up into a sphere that makes him feel that life. Is really worth while. It gives him vision: "The practical man knows a tree is a tree, He figures its height and its girth, How many board feet it would yield to the saw, And just what the boards would be worth. And yet, to the man who has vision, it stands As a miracle sprung from the sod, A green living glory that ever proclaims The Spirit and purpose of God. "The practical man sees a practical world And runs it in practical strife, 'He's safe, and he's sane as an everyday guide; But still, every once in awhile, 440. | RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Though practical people make living run smooth, Let's yield to the magical thrall Of dreamers who see beautiful visions supply The reason for living at all." —Berton Brayley in Leslies. We look upon the mountains all about us; they appear to be firm and everlasting hills, We are thrilled as we gaze at Mount Timpanogos. We feel that it is a tower of strength and we wonder what force is powerful enough to fulfill the prediction made by the prophet Isaiah that "every vallev shall be exalted, and every mountain and hill shall be made low." On the borders of the streams, on the slopes, and on the mountain tops, if we look closely we can see the work of the master forces of nature slowly but surely carving down the massive, rocky heights. Cracks develop in the rocks; into these openings tiny rootlets force their entrance, and by their pressure gradually break assunder the most resistant crag. Masses of stone contain, on their surface, lower forms of plant life such as mosses, or even such 442. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE by scientists to prove that carbon dioxide is given off when one exhales. Plants decay, and, in the process, set free much carbon dioxide; the burning of coal and wood results in the liberation of carbon dioxide. Most all decaying or breaking down processes, such as that done by the yeast plant when it "works" or breaks down the sugar or potatoes that have been added, or that done by the human body in changing food into work, is really a form of slow burning—so slow that it does not give a flame but gives off carbon dioxide the same as the flaming fire does.. The total amount of carbon dioxide in the air is considerable. For every ten thousand ounces of air there is found, on the average, six ounces of carbon dioxide. This gas unites with water, and forms a weak acid known as carbonic acid. The acid comes in contact with limestone, and produces a more soluble limestone, such as is readily: dissolved by water. Granite rocks contain a number of potash-bearing minerals. Mica, or what is commonly called isinglass, is one of these potash minerals found in the majority of granite rocks. Carbon dioxide and water unite with the mica potash,. And dissolve it after which the rock becomes full of holes and finally curmbles to pieces. You may have noticed isinglass get very dull, so dull that it is difficult to see through it. The reason for this is usually that the carbon dioxide of the atmosphere has united with some of the chemical elements and is gradually decomposing it. This process which is known as carbonation sounds simple and may not be thought to be very effective but the most resistant rocks known, fall to pieces under its action. The rocks are thus made porous and are weakened until they are susceptible to other influences of decay and are readily broken down. Hydration Hydration is a second force that is powerful in causing rock to decay. Many of us have poured water on quicklime, and found that the lime was changed to a mass with different qualities. This new material is known as water-slaked lime and is considerably more bulky and soluble than the original quicklime. Water has been taken in by the lime the same as it is by flour but the water absorbed by the lime forms a chemical combination which is very soluble, whereas the water absorbed by flour may cause no chemical change. Water unites with many rock materials to form new chemical compounds in this way. Granites have been known to fall to pieces in a few days after quarrying due to this process of MOUNTAINS SHALL BE LAID LOW 443 hydration or water union. Flour may become more compact after wetting, but in this hydration process in rocks there may be an increase to almost twice the former size because the new chemical substance formed is more bulky than the original. In flour, on the other hand, the water merely moistens the sticky substance in the flour and makes it stick together more closely. Pikes Peak, in Colorado, is made up largely of granite. Some of the minerals contained in this granite are very sus-. Ceptible to water, and as a result the Peak is weathering away in the manner described above. Oxidation The air we breathe is made up of about three-fourths nitrogen, almost one-fourth oxygen, and a relatively small amount of corbon dioxide. The oxygen is very active in breaking down rocks. Whenever oxygen unites with a substance the process is known as oxidation or, in other words, "burning". When you light a match the burning of the wood is merely a union of the wood with the oxygen of the air accompanied by a flame. The substance at the tip of the match has what is known as a low kindling temperature. The kind-- ling temperature is the temperature at which the oxygen of the air will unite with the substance. The kindling temperature of the tip of the match is considerably lower than that of the wood. A slight friction against anything hard will make the sulphur or whatever it happens to be, unite with oxygen of air and burn. This burning raises the temperature quickly to the kindling temperature of. Wood, and soon a clear, yellow flame appears as evidence that the oxygen is uniting with the wood and burning or oxidizing it. All oxidation, however, is not accompanied by flame. Iron, when exposed to. Airand water, quickly develops a reddish color due to iron rust. This iron rust is oxidized or "burned" iron. The original iron has united with oxygen. Such rusted iron is much more soluble now than it was before, as you probably know from having a little iron rust discolor a whole batch of washing. Iron, after it has united with oxygen, has what we might term, partially decayed. There is much iron in the various rocks; not in masses of solid iron as we usually know it, but in numerous fine kernels throughout the rock. When these particles are exposed to the oxygen of the air, it is gradually changed to new rust compounds much more soluble and bulky than before. The rain water then dissolves these iron rust kernels and the rock crumbles to pieces because the holes where the iron was, leaves the 444 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE rock nearly the same as grains of sand. The various yellow and red colors that you see on many rocks are evidences of iron oxidation processes at work breaking down the rocks. Solution Whenever a lump of sugar is placed in a glass of water it very quickly dissolves away, or goes into solution. Many \ of the elements of the rock go into solution in the same way. This process is responsible for much rock weathering or breaking to pieces. There are a number of gases in the air in very small amounts which, as mentioned above, when united MOUNTAINS SHALL BE LAID LOW 445 with water, form acids. Acids are very powerful agents in dissolving many rocks. You have all probably made soda water by taking a tumbler full of water, onehalf teaspooonful of baking soda, and finally a little tartaric acid or vinegar and mixing them together. If you have, you know that if you do not drink this quickly, it bubbles over the top and down to the floor. Nearly the same thing happens when this same gas (carbon dioxide) which makes the soda water bubble, is absorbed from the air by water and forms an acid which comes in contact with the rocks. Perhaps you have seen limerock bubble when some acid came in contact with it. This is going on all the time in nature. The rocks are thus dissolved, carried down the mountain side to the canyon and finally out into the valleys, there to furnish the waiting soil with additional plant. Foods. One experimenter stated that this process of solution is so powerful that no matter how solid a rock might be, it would take but 6,000,000 years to have water and carbon dioxide completely dissolve a rock away. Scientists claim that on every square mile of the Appalachian mountains in the eastern part of the United States, two hundred and seventy-five tons of limestone are removed every year to the ocean by the process of solution. In England 14314 tons of limerock goes into solution on every square mile annually and is taken into the sea. The average amount of material removed from the hills and mountains and taken into the low places, on every square mile of the entire earth in one year is fifty tons. In our own rocky mountains it is probably much greater than this. It is remarkable when one stops to consider, how powerful the agent of solution is in wearing down the rock, in gradually putting into actuality the exalting of the valleys and the laying low of the mountains and the hills. Effect of Temperature In the summer time our cement sidewalks do not always stay smooth and level as when first laid down. They swell in places and create quite an upheaval or hummock, as scientists call such humps, which, when we are inattentive to where we are walking, cause us to stumble. Oftentimes, when riding in our cars along the state highway; wherever the cement blocks have been joined, there is quite a rise, so much of one that it gives the car a considerable jolt, not any too comfortable for the occupants. You seldom notice this situation in the winter time. The reason for this is that the cement expands considerably when it is heated MOUNTAINS SHALL BE LAID LOW —— 447 of minerals. The minerals do not expand at the same rate when they are heated, neither do they contract at the same rate. One would expect then that a solid rock made up of different substances undergoing different degrees of swelling would gradually push each other out of each other's way and then loosen themselves from the cramped position and suddenly fall out of the big rock. This is what actually happens. The great granite pillars that we look upon as so firm and everlasting are slowly but surely crumbling to pieces by this force. We have differences in temperature from summer to winter of about 100 degrees. A piece of granite 100 feet in length when heated to summer heat will expand practically one inch from its winter length. Imagine a firm granite mountain whose surface is undergoing this expansion due to heat. Can it possibly remain solid under such environment? Not at all, it swells at the surface and gradually peels away. On some of the higher slopes of our mountains large flakes of rock of sizes almost to ten feet, are strewn all over the area. In certain parts of Africa, according to Livingston, the African explorer, rock temperatures vary in one day as much as 137 degrees Fahrenheit. The temperature falls so rapidly at nightfall as to throw off by the rock contraction, sharp angular masses in size up to 200 pounds in weight. Freezing and Thawing We generally fill our ice cream freezer about half or two thirds full of liquid material to be frozen into ice cream. After it is frozen we take the lid off, and lo! We find it filled. The liquid has expanded due to freezing. Our wooden barrels are sometimes filled with water during the summer time so they will not leak. We forget about them until the middle of winter, and we find that the ice that has formed has expanded to such an extent as to burst open the barrels. We fail to close our cellar windows in the fall of the year, and later in the winter time, we go down the cellar for a bottle of peaches and to our consternation, the fruit is frozen, the lids have been forced off by the pressure of the ice in the bottle, or the bottle has burst, due to the expansion of the liquid that has been changed to ice. Nature works in a similar fashion in breaking down our mountains. The heat and cold have developed numerous large cracks in our solid mountain of rock. The autumn rains have worked themselves into these cracks. Jack Frost visits the territory MOUNTAINS SHALL BE LAID LOW 449 The writer observed a large piece of quartzite about 12 feet wide, 10 feet deep and 8 feet thick, in the region of Aspen Grove behind Mount Timpanogos. There were cracks throughout the rock, very minute indeed, but such that it seemed almost impossible for plant life to get started. However, sticking out from the minute cracks throughout the whole rock were fairly good sized roots about 14 of an inch in thickness. They were attached to the roots that had grown in the cracks. We split some of the rocks open and to our astonishment, we found the cracks were filled with root systems, flattened to adjust themselves to their cramped environment. 450 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Pine trees are often seen growing out of the face of an apparently solid rock.. The tiny rootlets work their way into tiny crevices, find the food they need, grow and. Expand and furnish the plant with its necessities until it is firmly implanted in the solid rock as firmly and unconcerned as if it were growing in the most fertile soil. Rocks that have been buried in the soil are covered with rootlets attempting to obtain nourishment from them. There is scarcely a square inch of rock buried near the surface of soil that is not covered with roots. In the vicinity of these rootlets, acids and other decomposing agents accumulate and slowly break down the rocks. On the exposed cliffs many beautiful colors are seen. A close examination shows the colors to be due to little plant colonies known as lichens. Some men have said that if the Lord had forgotten to make these lichen plants, we could never have had any soil. Lichens have no true roots, but their contribution is made largely at their death by the carbon dioxide they contribute. They cling tenaciously to the bare rock, their appearance reminding one of a little smear of greenish paint. Peel off some of this plant material and it is seen that the surface of the rock is corroded and there are beginings of soil clustering amid a sort of root fibers beneath. Also some lime compounds, known as oxalate of lime are found. This lime generally comes from the rock and the oxalic acid, the acid of rhubarb and that used in removing iron and ink stains from clothing, comes from the plant as a by-product of its activity.: This oxalic acid corrodes some of the rock minerals. The progress made by these plants in rocks can be traced beyond the root fibers by changes in the color of the rock made by this acid. A rust color will be seen to have changed to a brick red. These lichens prepare the way for the ordinary mosses seen on the rocks in the canyon. The mosses of higher forms of plant life have well developed roots. Remove these moss plants from the side of the rocks and it will be found that the roots, half inch in length, are filled with small particles of rock about the size of soil particles. The dead lichens and mosses, mixed with the pieces of rock, together with soil that gradually gathers, develop and environment favorable to higher forms of plant life. If there are any cracks in the rocks, then the herbs, shrubs and brush send down their roots. Many of these roots are sent out reconnoitering to see if any particular part of the rock offers nourishment. If not successful, they die, if successful they start their work of destruction, and bring about astonishing results in the way of rock destruction. MOUNTAINS SHALL BE LAID LOW - 451 The Work of Bacteria We cannot in a discussion of this kind, leave out the work of bacteria. You are probably already familiar with the disease bacteria such as the ones causing typhoid fever. They are little organisms that cannot be seen with the naked eve, but yet so numerous that their combined activities make them a serious menace to all animal and plant life, and we shall now see that they also affect even the rocks. If these organisms were magnified by aid of the microscope, until they appeared 1000 times larger than they actually are, one would see them as little dots moving to and fro, something like polywogs in a stagnant pool. One writer calls our attention to the fact that should a man be magnified 1000 times he would appear as a man 6000 feet tall, and 1500 feet wide, or che size of atall mountain. There are often as many as 5,000,000 of bacteria in a single drop of milk, yet they can move around freely. A small amount of soil, one ounce of weight, will ordinarily contain about 200,000,000 of them. They are indeed unusually small, but they work upon the rocks, making soluble some of the elements found therein. They penetrate every little cleft or crevice, and slowly do their tiny bit. They are found in granite, limestone, sandstone, and volcanic rocks, on high mountain peaks, and on lower levels. In the peaks of the Alps in partially decomposed rock there are millions of them busily engaged tearing down the sides of the mountains, and aiding the forces of nature in their work of rock destruction. The depth to which the nature forces work on solid rock is very considerable. It is not all at the surface as at first appears. In Atlanta, Georgia, rocks have been found completely rotted 95 feet below the surface and partially decayed three hundred feet down. In Iron Mountain, Missouri, some of the rocks are found decayed from ten to eighty feet; at Chattanooga, Tennessee, some fifty to one hundred feet; coarse granite at Pikes Peak, Colo., to twenty or thirty, and in some places in Massachusetts to depths of two hundred to three hundred feet, Our own mountains are newer and probably not extensively rotted to great depths. We find in this deep rock decay, further evidence that these forces are very deceptive as to their power, and when investigated are found so great as to almost overwhelm the mind of man. The Work of Wind It might be thought that the above agents would about empty mother natures tool box of materials for destroying 452. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE rocks, but not-so. She 'still has the wind, water, gravity, ice and snow to help complete the work. Particles are loosened by the above mentioned forces. The wind then picks them up and carries them into all parts of the world. A great geologist by the name of Chamberlain, says that every square mile of land surface contains particles of material brought there by the wind from every other square mile. In a darkened room, pierced by a keyhole of light, one may see in that beam of light millions of little particles darting hither and thither while suspended in the air. These little dust particles if examined under the microscope, would. Prove to be little particles of rock that have been worked loose from the mountain side and carried by the wind and left suspended in the air. We think of water as a wonderful transporter of sediment, but in the Mississippi basin we are told that the amount of material carried by the wind is one thousand times greater than that carried by the Mississippi river itself. The housewife in that locality needs to keep her duster busy, and she is a past master at her art if she keeps her house clean. Several months of every year, material is blown from the north-west shores of Africa to the Atlantic ocean, a swath 1600 miles wide, a distance of 300 to 1000 miles from the coast. MOUNTAINS SHALL BE LAID LOW ~— 453 In parts of Asia the dust carried by the wind so obscures the sun that even at midday one cannot see to read fine print without the aid of a lamp. Overwhelming of caravans of travelers by sand storms in the Desert of Sahara is a common occurence. The city of Nineveh, we are told, was founded two thousand years before Christ's birth; it was destroyed 1400 years later. One thousand years later the great Greek general, Xenophon, set out to look for the city, but it was so completely covered by sands that had been carried by the wind that it could not be found. The soils found in the central part of the United States, including Illinois and the surrounding states, were carried by the winds, according to the idea of our scientific men. The wind is a powerful agent. The particles it picks up become chisels which cut away -other rocks that lie in its path. Sharp ledges that stick out from the cliffs are often worn down by the chiseling action of the material carried by the wind. Work of Gravity — Perhaps you have noted on the sides of the mountains, and at the foot of cliffs, large amounts of loose material that apparently have dropped from the rocks above. These have accumulated under the influence of gravity. If an airplane that is flying in the air should suddenly have its engine cease to work. It would fall with a crash. This sudden fall is due to a force that tends to puill all things toward the center of the earth. As the rock is broken loose from the parent rocks by the various forces, gravity pulls it down and then it accumulates at the base of the cliff on what we, geologically speaking, call a talus slop. This talus material gets filled with moisture, the water freezes, then the expansion of the ice lifts up the pieces of rock and as the ice melts, gravity pulls it down the slope. Sometimes the slope is too steep for the amount of material that rests thereon, and a large rock or some other force starts the material sliding, resulting in a landslide.. However, sooner, or later, this talus material finally gets to the bed of the canyon stream and from there it is carried to the valley below. A Work of Streams The Mississippi river carries to the ocean four hundred million tons of sediment each year, or one million tons per day. MOUNTAINS SHALL BE LAIDLOW 455 down in the valleys, there to furnish sustenance for the corn and potatoes waiting anxiously for food. A most interesting experience for any nature lover would be a visit to the bed of one of our canyon streams, there to see the various rocks held fast in the bottom of the stream and the marks of wear upon them made by the many rocks that have passed over. This is as powerful a factor as any force of nature in wearing the rocks gathered from the mountain ~ side. The mountains are on all sides; they appear as firm solid rocks. A close examination reveals the fact that none of the rocks is solid, and that they slowly are being worn down by the forces of nature. Our Utah valleys are filled with soil brought down by the mountain streams. The recent floods at Farmington and Willard, in Davis and Boxelder counties, furnish an excellent example of all phases of nature's work with water. To make a close study of all the forces of nature is very interesting. It impresses man with the dynamic nature of the earth, that change is a constant thing, and that man even with all his power is weak when he compares his powers with the mighty ones of nature. It impresses man with the idea that there is a Master Force back of all this, who evokes a reverential attitude on the part of the student of nature in such a way that he, indeed, becomes a better citizen in the community in which he lives. Above all it gives the student information regarding -some of the ways in which God created the earth, information that will be of use to him if he is ever to become "perfect as our Father in heaven is perfect." EDITORIAL Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah Motto—Charity Never Faileth THE GENERAL BOARD MRS. CLARISSA SMITH WILLIAMS - = -. - - -- President MRS, JENNIE BRIMHALL KNIGHT.- -.-=- - - First Counselor MRS. LOUISE YATES ROBISON - - -  Second Counselor MRS. AMY BROWN LYMAN.-.- -. - General Secretary and Treasurer Mrs. Emma A. Empey Mrs. Lotta Paul Baxter Mrs. Ethel Reynolds Smith Mrs. Jeanette A. Hyde Mrs, Julia A. Child Mrs, Barbara Howell Richards Miss Sarah M. McLelland Mrs. Cora L. Bennion Mrs. Rosannah C. Irvine Mrs. Annie Wells Cannon Mrs. Julia A. F. Lund Miss Alice Louise Reynolds Mrs. Lalene H. Hart Mrs. Amy Whipple Evans Mrs, Lizzie Thomas Edward, Music Director Miss Edna Coray, Organist RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Editor+ Clarissa Smith WILLIAMS Associate Editor -: - - - - - - ALICE Louise REYNOLDS Business Manager - -. - - - Jeanette A. Hype Assistant Manager - - Amy Bsown Lyman Room 29, Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah Vol. XI. SEPTEMBER, 1924. —S_— No. 9 Another Centenary---September, 1824-1924 The approach of the 21st of September, 1924, marks the visit of the angel Moroni a year after his first appearance to the boy prophet, Joseph Smith. On the occasion of his first visit he told Joseph that he would come each year and give him instructions. This practice was to be followed until the plates were delivered to him. 'Any reference to the Book of Mormon is apt to bring to mind a flood of memories and experiences in relation to the book. Last year we published a group of testimonies growing out of contact and familiarity with the book; this year we have in mind a similar experience to those we related last year, which we shail place in the editorial column. Some two 'years ago we were engaged in purchasing books from a man by the name of Otto Tooney. We found that he had made a very large collection of "Mormon" books now out of print; a collection so valuable that both the University of Chicago and the University of California had offered to buy it. Because these books were, in the main, old and rare, we fancied he had been in the-Church a good many years. We were fairly startled when he told us that he knew nothing of the Latter-day Saint faith, until 1907, and then followed this story: Said he, "I was working with a young man who belonged EDITORIAL 457 to the 'Mormon' church. Being in an antagonistic state of mind, I provoked an argument. I was determined to get the better of my co-laborer, because I was satisfied in my-own mind that his faith was not a very worth while faith. During our discussion, the young man quoted the Book of Mormon continuously. In order to be able to refute what he said in relation to the Book and its teachings, I read it; but, to employ an old adage, I came to scoff and remained to pray. By the time I had finished reading the Book, I was convinced in my soul that it was the word of God; consequently I relinquished all thought of returning to the place _ of my birth in the state of Colorado, cast my lot with the Latter-day Saints and am numbered with that people. "I am a living witness of the truth of Moroni's statement, found in the tenth chapter and. Fourth paragraph: 'And when ye shall receive these things, I would exhort you that ye would ask God, the eternal Father, in the name of Christ, if these things are not true; and if ye shall ask with a sincere heart, with real intent, having faith in Christ, he will manifest the truth of it unto you, by the power of the Holy Ghost.' " Elizabeth Claridge" McCune Elizabeth Claridge McCune has gone to her reward. No one who has ever known her has the slightest doubt of her integrity. In the innermost recesses' of her being was an abiding testimony of the divinity of the Gospel of Jesus Christ, and the love of this truth was the dominating note in her character. No matter in what path, fortune led her, either sweet or bitter, she carried within her soul the light of truth which was her guide. She served on the M. I. A. And Relief Society General Boards, and was intimately connected with the Genealogical work of the Church. Many of us recall how eagerly the young women of the Mutual Improvement Association listened to her soulstirring testimony; and in her later years this same testimony was a source of great support to the more mattire women. She traveled in many lands, and in these lands collected treasures of art, rare in this western country, which treasures became part of her home. Many times she has opened her lovely mansion, imposing in its location and architecture, to those interested in furthering the work of the Lord.. Later she and her husband bequeathed it to the Church, and today it is dedicated to the culture and development of those who are lovers of the divine art. In the town where she passed her girlhood and youth were  RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE friends to whom she was devoted with all her heart. She has found her last resting place in the quiet little city of her girlhood, a city where she has been beloved and admired as it is given to only a few to be beloved and admired. Those who knew her best know that she valued not the riches of this world, although worldly riches was her portion; what she placed store by was eternal riches, and eternal riches shall surely be her reward. Cache Valley The Cache Valley people covered themselves with glory im the very masterful and attractive way in which they celebrated the centenary of Jim Bridger entering the valley. It was highly appropriate that this celebration be held in Logan. The guests of the occasion have returned with glowing accounts of the street pageant, the variety of entertainment provided the guests, and the splendid fashion in which Logan. A city of ten thousand inhabitants, made comfortable forty thousand guests. The people visiting there saw something more than the crowds and the festivities especially arranged for the celebration: they observed that Logan is a beautiful city, consequently the 'visitors came back with a tale of enchantment. They tell us of the clean, weedless streets, of the attractiveness of the business blocks, of the beauty of the shade trees bordering streets that have been laid out to follow the natural contour of the country. Logan is a "city set upon a hill." Her beautiful temple overlooks her verdant valley, and her temples of learning are justly a matter of pride both to the Church and to the State. Literally, she is a "city set upon a hill," speaking of her in terms of her physical location; but, above all else, spiritually she is a "city set upon a hill, " for she is an example of civic pride and of intellectual and spiritual leadership. In these days when people fancy they must crowd for a dwelling place to the large cities, they should take a second thought of all the advantages that may be had in a city the size of Logan, where the people co-operate to make a city beautiful. School Lunches Ethel Melville, University of Utah Foods Children Should Have and Lunch Basket Suggestions. If children are to be strong and healthy and do good work in school, they must be properly fed. Too many of them are eating unwholesome food at noon and thereby depriving their bodies of the nourishment necessary for energy and growth. Luncheon for school children, from the standpoint of health, is no more important than any other meal of the day, but it is more difficult to keep up to the standard of wholesomeness and cleanliness. Growing children have special needs in the way of food. Even when they always eat at home, it is no easy matter to see that they are properly fed, and when they eat the mid-day meal at school, the difficulty is far greater. This is not because wholesomeness and cleanliness are more important in this meal than in any other, but because they are harder to secure. In order that children may be strong and well, their food must first provide the materials for building and repairing the body; it must furnish energy or fuel for the work of the muscles; and it must serve to regulate the intricate chemical changes on which health and growth depend. Vegetables and fruits are particularly valuable as sources of the necessary mineral matters and vitamines, the lack of which may lead to under-development and to such diseases as rickets and scurvy. Many vegetables and fruits also tend to prevent constipation. Cereals may be depended upon for a large part of the fuel that every active child needs. Sugar also has a useful, place in the child's diet as a fuel and as a flavoring. For a child eight to ten years old an allowance of two ounces (four level tablespoon fulls) of sugar a day to be used in cooking or eaten in other ways is not too much. The point to remember about sugar and sweets in a child's diet is that they should be served chiefly at the end of the meal. If eaten between meals or at the beginning of a meal they take away the appetite for more important foods. Milk is regarded as a necessity in the diet of every normal child, because it supplies, in an easily digestible form, the necessary tissue-building material, and is a good combination of vitamines, lime, and protein. A quart of milk a day, served partly as a beverage and partly in other ways, is not too much for a child. Wherever possible the child should be permitted to carry 460 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE a small bottle of milk to school to drink at recess. He will like this, especially if he can drink it with a straw. This will not take away his appetite for regular meals and it will tide him over until dinner time. Eggs are a good supplement to milk, in that they supply iron, in which milk is lacking, In the light of present knowledge of the requirements of the human body in childhood, one of the worst diets that could be devised would be made up chiefly of bread and sweets, There is likely to be no danger, however, if the child has each day at least a pint and a half of milk—a quart is better—a potato, an orange, some green vegetable, and an ounce of butter. If the children can come home at noon, conditions may be much more favorable for a wholesome lunch. There is no reason why the ordinary family dinner cannot be so prepared that it is entirely suitable for school children. The usual first course of meat and vegetables, if simply cooked and not highly seasoned, contains nothing, except the meat, that cannot be given to children, and for them, milk or eggs can be easily substituted for meat. Suitable desserts are fruit, fresh or cooked, with cake, custards and custard puddings, gelatine dishes, cereal puddings, simple ice cream, water ices, junket and blanc-mange. If the time for the noon meal is limited, it should be served promptly and in such a way that there are no delays. If this is done, an otherwise hurried meal may be changed into one at which there is plenty of time for eating and for attention to good table manners. The meat, for instance, may be sliced before it is brought to the table, and the desserts may be served in cups or individual portions. The basket lunch must usually be prepared at a time when the housekeeper is very busy. In places where there are shops near the school, therefore, children are sometimes given money with which to buy food at noon. They like this, of course, for it is a pleasure to make their own selections and they are glad to be relieved of carrying baskets. If they could choose wisely, there would be no objection to this plan. However, it is found that the money is often spent for dirty or otherwise unwholesome foods. "Hot dogs," cakes, and candy; or, at best, only starchy foods are likely to make up the bill-of-fare, and thus the good effects of careful feeding at home are likely to be overcome. It is much better in this case that the children should bring their lunches from home. The basket lunch is harder to plan and also to prepare than the lunch at home. It is not easy to keep food clean and attractive when it must be packed and carried in a lunch box. There are many foods that cannot be included in it, either because they are not good cold or because they cannot be conveniently packed 462  RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Hard-cooked egg yolks, which, unlike hard-cooked whites, are not '. Considered difficult to digest, make good filling for sandwiches. Sandwiches made from whole-wheat bread, lettuce, and egg yolks, seasoned with lemon juice and salt are palatable and rich in iron: and vitamines. At all times the children's lunches should include as much fresh fruit as possible. During the spring and summer apricots, cherries, strawberries, peaches, pears, and plums are as a rule easily obtained. When these are not on the market, oranges, figs, dates, apples, and dried fruits can usually be purchased. Slices of canned pineapple may also be wrapped in paraffin paper with the lunch. The following bills of fare for basket lunches may help in deciding what is satisfactory. Many others equally good will suggest themselves:; 1. Crisp roll, hollowed out and filled with chopped meat or fish, moistened and seasoned, or mixed with salad dressing; apricots, or a mixture of sliced fruits; cake. 2. Lettuce or celery sandwiches; cup custard; berries. 3. Cottage-cheese sandwiches, or a pot of cream cheese with bread and butter sandwiches; peanut sandwiches; fruit; cake. 4. Hard-cooked eggs; baking powder biscuits; celery or radishes; brown sugar or maple sugar sandwiches. 5. Bottle of milk; thin corn bread and butter; dates; apple. 6. Thermos bottle of hot soup; raisin or nut bread with butter; cheese; orange; jelly roll.: 7. Baked bean and lettuce sandwiches; apple sauce; sweet chocolate. 8.. Sandwiches with sliced tender meat for filling;- baked apple; cookies. 9, Slices of meat loaf or bean loaf; sandwiches; stewed fruit; small frosted cake. THE BRIGHAM YOUNG UNIVERSITY CATALOGUE — A copy of the catalogue of the Brigham Young University for the year 1924-1925 has reached our office. It indicates expansion in the courses of the institution and an increase in the quality and number of the faculty. Since the catalogue came from the press announcement has been made of an appropriation by the Church of $125,000 for the erection of a library building. This building will furnish the needed room for the; expansion of the library, and free other space necessary for class room expansion; so that there is indication of growth in the institution, from a number of very important angles. Etiquette Etiquette is a subject that has always been of interest to women. Recently Vogue has published a series of articles on Etiquette, we are including article twenty-three as it is a summing up of the series. When the writing of these essays was first considered, it seemed almost impossible that anything could be found to say on the subject of etiquette which had not already been said, rightly or wrongly. Some books on the subject were appearing, or about to appear. Some had been for a time on the market. Some were vague; some too particular; and these must have made life extremely complicated for simple people, by picturing the most natural happenings and suggesting the most appalling mistakes in connection with them. Certain advertisements showed men and women engaged in the usual actions of every-day life and attached the most sinister consequences to almost all of them, till the timid might have hesitated to appear in public. Now, all these terrifying examples are unnecessary. The essential of good public behavior is not to call too much attention to anything one does, but otherwise to conduct one's self as ordinary polite manners dictate. Here, then, is one of the uses of the newer etiquette articles: to correct the impression of constant error created by too particular past ones, and relieve the nerve tension they excite. Common Sense—The Guide to Etiquette Errors of feeling, errors of the taste which should come from good feeling, are those to be shunned, not the fictitious bug-bears and bogies erected by false standards of etiquette. Of these, perhaps, the ones which alarm people most are the questions concerning those very relations with their fellows which are supposed to be most pleasantly social, such as intercourse at parties of all kinds, at weddings—even in the ordinary exchange of visits. A great part of the world is more worried about its behavior, as an outward asset, than it need be. Occasions are seldom worth such disquiet of mind, and yet the worthiest people constantly implore information about the correctness or incorrectness of the most ordinary actions. They seem afraid to let common sense and natural consideration guide them. Surely these two attributes are supposed to be part of the American character; why, then, if we possess them, should we not give them fair play? Everybody will grant that there are certain ways of conducting formal functions, ways which have gradually grown into usages, and it is well to know them. But it is not well 464 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE to be hypnotized by the knowledge, nor terror-stricken if one does not possess it. To furnish an illustration: there was given, some years ago, a large dinner, followed by a performance of celebrated dancers, the entertainment of a kind and generouslady who very much wished to show fitting attention to a great number of people considered socially important. The dinner was not given in her own house,' but arranged in the ballroom of some semi-public place, and the guests were so numerous that the dividing and seating of them at the different tables was exceedingly difficult. The lady called for the assistance of one of her more sophisticated friends, her social godmother, in fact, who was piloting her through the whirlpools of a new-comer's winter season. Now, to take the advice of a woman who knows her world, its mighty and its modest members, its ups and downs, likes and dislikes, is wise, and the giver of the party very sensibly did what she was told in the arrangement of her tables. But she was so completely and snobbishly overpowered by the grandeur surrounding her that she was afraid to take any step on her own initiative, and when, at the very table where she sat, the non-appearance of a masculine guest left two women, for the length of dinner, with an empty seat between them, she was literally afraid to lean across to where there happened to be an extra man and beg him to fill the vacant place. Omission and Submission When the unhappy hostess lamented the incident afterward and was asked why she had not taken this perfectly obvious way of straightening the table, she almost tearfully admitted that she had thought of it, but was "afraid it mightn't have been the right thing to do, and hadn't dear Tilly near to tell her." She was no fool; she had aspirations for herself and kind intentions toward her guests. If she had been among her familiar friends, she would, doubtless, have sent the gentleman from the side of the table where there was a man too many, to the side where men were too few. But instead of using her mind, she sat there paralyzed by the fear of applying wrongly something she called manners, If she had forgotten Tilly and made herself at home at her own party, she would have done the right thing by instinct and shown the real good manners of sense and consideration. A vacant place is not a terrible thing; it interrupts, a little, the circle of talk and the conventional look of the table, but the two women could have drawn their chairs together and made the best of things had it been necessary. The point is that it could have been easily arranged for the better, that the hostess might have so arranged it without trouble, but that she looked on miserably 466 - RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Yet to do all one's entertaining in restaurants is to d6 it in an atmosphere that has none of the cordial, welcoming, home atmosphere of one kind of dinner-giving, nor the dignified statelines of another. These public merrymakings serve their purpose, of course, and there seem to be more and more interesting little foreign places to be found where one may go for supper after having dined at the famous big American ones, but they do not increase the peaceful intimacy of friendly intercourse. They rather cover. Up the fact that we are not, as a nation, very peacefully intimate. Apart from the ever-decreasing leisure class (such pleasant, cultivated, amiable, easy-going people!), we entertain one another rather tensely; or we relax alone at home. And all this may come from the fact that we are afraid to be natural in company; and perhaps this may come from the fact that too many etiquette rulings alarm the average citizen. Sometime ago, across the Canadian border, a lady having a small house and staff of servants, had, in an emergency, to provide lunch for about twice as many people as she expected. She was quite unperturbed, and although most of her guests were unknown to her, she took them into her confidence, and made them feel entirely at home, while she explained that half - must sit down at one hour and the other half as soon as the first had eaten and the table could be reset. Her entire freedom from any self-consciousness or embarrassment, her gay hopes that the second comers would fare no less well than the first, made her an excellent example of good, natural manners, and a lesson to all hostesses who try to behave more genteelly than sensibly. Wedding questions still continue to be numerous. Churches which have two side aisles, instead of one main aisle, seem to cause great bewilderment to brides, who constantly inquire which is the proper aisle to use for going up to the altar and which for coming away. This is the sort of thing one would think an intelligent young woman could settle for herself. The natural inclination would be to walk up the right side of the church and down the left. Well, why not yield to the natural inclination? Though no matter which way the thing was decided, there could be no harm done. But no. Girls must be told. They have attached an arbitrary idea of convention to this proceeding, and they seem to dread comment more than, except for real lapses in good breeding, comment should ever be dreaded. The passion for rules exhibited by brides and their families, and indeed by many people who wish for information about costume and custom, is not to be believed. To tell them that outside a few fixed standards, there is a great and ever greater latitude allowed for people's individual taste is to tell them what they do not apparently want to hear. Very often, only general advice can be given. If one BRIOUETTE. 467 does not know the interior arrangement of a house, how can one tell where the young couple should stand to receive congratulations, or at what spot the mother of the bride should welcome her guests? The former in an inner room, the latter near the door of the main one, would be the usual reply. But if people demand whether congratulations should be received more properly between the windows, or before the fireplace? Whether the mother of the bride should stand so many paces to the right or the left of the door? What can one say? Definite answers not accurate ones, seem to be required. Accurate, nobody can be where there is not a fixed rule, but positive anybody can be. Does mere positiveness inspire confidence? Pehaps it does in more cases than the independent spirits of the world imagine. But the really sensible way is to give the general reason for certain actions and let the individual work out the details. The young bride and groom stand: wherever there is space enough for their friends to move toward and away from them without too much confusion. A constant circle of people can speak to them and pass on, if this is well managed. The mother of the bride stands near enough to the door to see her guests as they come in and far enough away not to block the entrance if one or two pause to talk to her. Given the philosophy, surely the application of it to any surroundings should be easily within the power of the average mind. The Elasticity of Etiquette Answers about the wedding food, too, depend upon so many things: the means of serving it, the time of day, the personal fancy of the family, the number of people asked to the house. The menu for a "sit-down" breakfast would differ from that arranged for an afternoon tea, yet either might be used at a wedding. Dress, also, may vary from the most girlish muslin to the richest silver brocade, and from possible country combinations with white flannel trousers to the conventional evening dress for men, if by any chance an evening wedding were on the tapis. As for the wedding procession, if a single formula for it could be given, how dully alike all the ceremonies would be! The truth is that from none to a dozen or more attendants, male and female, a bride may have what she pleases. Good taste simply suggests a wedding not unsuitable to her circumstances. For those who are still anxious about visits and when to pay them, there are always intricate Old World laws which may be requoted (such as, "Leave cards within the week after a dinner party," "Visit a bride within two weeks after her return home"), but modern customs make light of most of them, particularly metropolitan customs. In the big cities, people keep up only 468 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE the most elementary of pasteboard politeness. The well-bred © e'ders pay visits after dinners and parties; they may remember the days at home of the few people who have days at home; they go to see brides! They do not forget even the most distant of their acquaintances in affliction. The juniors, if they have been well brought up, know they ought to pay their elders visits after having dined or danced, or been in any way entertained at their houses, but with one another they are extremely casual. They are intimate in small circles, and rather indifferent to what goes on outside to them. Newcomers find New York a not too friendly place, particularly when contrasted with smaller cities. But New York lives under such pressure, so many interests and amusements are already crowded into the days and nights of its gayest set of people, that any obligation to be more than polite to a stranger comes to them as an extra effort; and an extra effort is almost impossible! At Newport, they might, if they liked her, clasp the newcomer to their bosoms, and by the time the New York season began she would be a friend. But in that hard city, unless she had married into their midst, or had come already accredited, or was known to have some excellent social attribute, the mere fact of her being gentle, pre-possessing, pleasant, altogether a "nice little woman," would not swing wide the doors of many houses at a time. She would have to expect a very gradual progress. A young woman from another city married to a well-known New Yorker would naturally be visited and entertained by her husband's family and connections, and if she showed herself able and willing to play the game as they played it, their friends and their friends' friends would follow suit. But if she were dull, or didactic, or had too dangerous a tongue, she might never be more to them than the "young woman poor Benedict married," and as such never admitted to their very innermost circles. Young people settling in a city unknown to them had better, if-it is possible, manage to take letters to some of the older residents. When presented, such letters should bring, at the least, visits from the persons to whom they were addressed; which visits when returned, should begin an acquaintance. A newcomer is not supposed to start the ball rolling to herself, and, unfortunately, it is sometimes slow in beginning to roll. The Clergyman and the House-Party One interesting question about the proper treatment of clergymen when an afternoon visit happens to land them in the middle of an easy-going, country house-party has been asked. A good deal, of course, depends upon the clergyman, as well as on the house-party. But there should be some meeting-ground. Clergymen who are also men of the world, as far as the usage of good ETIQUETTE  469 manners goes, can usually accommodate themeselves to their surroundings. If they should show signs of prim provincialism, the members of the house-party must be considerate enough to subdue their conduct and conversation to a suitable, if slightly serious key. The church man seldom objects to being treated as a man and a brother, provided it is an elder brother, before whom one does not play ribald tricks. But then no gentleman cares to be 'ribald before a man whose principles it might offend. Otherwise, why not welcome the parson to. Any party which a layman of ordinary decency could be given at his house? Our essay on such words and expressions as are, 'and are not, used among the class of people called smart, chic, distinguished, well-bred, well-born, socially important, whatever other people like to call them, has been the subject of much outside comment. Grammar has been called into question, and certain phrases have caused criticism. Well, the speakers we quote are by no means impeccable. But there is a deadly secondrate correctness, born of too much unassimilated "culture," which seems as ridiculous to them as the even deadlier too-good manners learned from formulas. "No gentleman," said Mr. Pepys, "should dance as well as the dancing-master." And what that means is that peop: e, or (as one lady entreated us always to say) "persons" of the same set, or (as she further recommended, according to biological usage) "groups," need not be formal or pedantic, but may behave with easy politeness and speak colloquial English, as long as it is the English, and the ease, of the well-bred. They do not pretend to be teachers, and one does not pretend it for them, but as they are reported for the ways _they live, move, and have their being, so we report them for their ways of speech; as we report other ways which mark, to their ears, the speech of the outsider. This is sometimes too good and sometimes not good enough. But no group need imitate the mode of speech obtaining in any other group unless the reason given for a certain use of certain words should happen to appeal to its reason. For instance, the word "intimate" means inmost near, familiar—an intimate friend. Yet the newspapers, and many people, speak of "close friends." 'Close,' to the smaller set (or group) means near in body only: "intimate" means near in spirit; "ugly" means offensive to sight, the opposite of beautiful, and has nothing to do with a person's disposition; but to the general public "ugly" is an adjective descriptive of temper. These differences do not make or mar, but they exist and are set som, as one sets down the fashion in boot heels, to take or to eave. Attention has been directed to the fact that no rules were laid down for that phase of table manners concerning the use 470 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE of the knife and fork together, and the fork separately. Really, this is a matter of convenience. If one has nothing on one's plate to cut up, one naturaliy takes the fork in one's right hand.. If one is eating something which needs the constant use of. The knife for cutting, it would be absurd to put that implement down every other moment and shift the fork to the right hand. One teaches a child the rudiments of knife-and-fork management, but one expects a grown-up person to apply them with some common sense. That indeed is the aim of our essays. To beg people to show common sense in their application of all ru'es about manners; and to remember that politeness is only common sense, considerately and tactfully used to keep some peace and pleasantness in that portion of society which still values it. The New Dentist By Pearl Nelson Freddie had a very bad tooth, it was loose, and oh! How it dil ache. He would not let any one look at it, or touch it, until one day Uncle Joe who came from the city, said: "Freddie, if you will let me pull your tooth, or if you wil go toa dentist, I will give you a dime." "All right, Sis will take me to the dentist," rejoiced Freddie, as he left the room. Sister Nell was in the library reading a history book when Freddie entered. ''Sis,' he cried all out of breath, "come, take me to a dentist." "Oh, don't go to a dentist, I will pull your tooth my very self," she answered, jumping up and starting toward Fred. "How?" questioned Fred. "Go get a string and I will show you how," offered Neilie, "Hurry!" Freddie dashed out of the door and down the long hall. Soon he returned dragging a long silk string. His face was red. His hair hung in his eyes. He was tired and sank down into the chair gasping for breath and trying at the same time to speak. Sis took the thread, looked at it for a while, then after finding it quite strong she glanced at Freddie and laughed. "Don't get so frightened, now open your mouth and show me what tooth it is; why, that one? Really it will be very easy to pull; hold still, there, see here just brace up and your tooth Notes from the Field Amy Brown Lyman Star Valley Stake. The Etna Relief Society of Star Valley stake has twentythree members enrolled. The people in the community are sO scattered that only eight members are able to walk to Relief Society meetings. The majority have to drive from three to seven miles. Unless the roads are very bad during storm periods, or during extreme rush seasons on the farms, there are seldom less than fifteen women in regular attendance. During the past three years, eighty-three quilts have been made by this branch. Quilt-making is quite necessary, since the winters are cold and long, and by cooperation, everybody is bnefited. When necessary, the branch assists with family sewing, darning stockings, mending, making layettes, etc. Help is given to all who are in need, and the members frequently take luncheon and spend the day visiting and cheering members who are unable to attend meetings. When a member of the organization moves from the ward she is remembered with a little farewell party. In the past two years this branch has been entertained by its nearest neighbor ward, the Freedom ward, and has entertained the Freedom ward in return. At each of these parties a lovely meeting with a good program, delicious luncheon, and a good time have been enjoyed by all. The attendance at these parties has come close to one hundred. — The accompanying picture was taken last August when 474 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE different towns in southern Idaho, for the examination of children, to be. Conducted by the state and the welfare deparment of Boise this year. Summit Stake. Great effort is being made in Summit stake to do proper follow-up work with the children who have been examined in the clinics. It is felt that examinations are very important, but the follow-up work is equally important. Nebo Stake. The Nebo stake Relief Society board recently entertained all the officers of the stake in honor of the Nebo stake presidency. A hot chicken supper was served at 6:30 p. M. To one hundred fifty invited guests, when the honored guests were toasted by members of the various stake boards. A splendid program was rendered during the repast. Following supper, the floor was cleared for dancing, and members of the Spanish Fork Third ward entertained with a Colonial quadrille in costume, after which a George Washington game was played, and the remainder of the evening spent in dancing. Cottonwood Stake. On the. Last Tuesday of May, the Mill Creek ward Relief Society of the Cottonwood stake held a farewell party in honor of first counselor, Mary B. Cornwall, who has moved from the stake. An excellent program was given by members of the - Society and the guest was presented with a quilt, and an autograph album containing sentiments from all the eighty-odd members. Over seventy women were then seated at one long, flowerdecked table, and ice cream, cake and punch were served. Mrs. Cornwall has lived in the Mill Creek ward for thirtyone years, and has been one of the presidency of the Relief Society for fifteen years. Alpine Stake. Due to the resignation of Mrs. Sina N. Chipman from the Alpine stake Relief Society presidency, of which she has beeri a member for the last thirteen years, and for ten previous years a member of the stake board, about two hundred and eighty Relief Society members of the stake met in a social in her honor Tuesday, April 15, 1924, at 2 p.m. In the Alpine stake tabernacle. A splendid program was rendered. Tributes and toasts in honor of her efficient, faithful labors were given. Expressions of regret on Mrs. Chipman's release and words of love and good feeling toward her were heard on all sides. A beautiful silver NOTES FROM THE FIELD.  475 basket filled with carnations and evergreens was presented by the stake as a token of love and appreciation. At the close of the program, dainty refreshments were served. Liberty Stake. The homebound visitors of Liberty stake Relief Societies, under the direction of the stake board, visit all the "'shut-ins" regularly each month. It is their purpose to bring joy and comfort to those whom they visit. These workers also hold a meeting, with a program of music and readings, at the County Infirmary and at the Sarah Daft Home, once a month. Parowan Stake. In looking over the minutes of the Cedar West ward Relief Society meeting, 'we find the meeting most excellently conducted. Panguitch Siake. From letters and reports we learn of a very interesting joint meeting held recently in Panguitch, with members of the Relief Society, Young Ladies Mutual Improvement Association, and the Primary Association in attendance. The Relief Society stake board meetings in this stake are very constructive and helpful. Pocatello Stake. On the fifth Tuesdays of two months during the year, the Pocatello stake has held teachers' conventions. Talks and demonstrations on teachers' work were given and each ward furnished with teachers' visiting cards. The teachers have pledged themselves to help enforce the laws. Great good has resulted from these special meetings. The organizations of this stake are following up the child welfare work, and are having the children that need medical attention attended to. REORGANIZATIONS South Sevier Stake. On March 30, the South Sevier stake was reorganized. Mrs. Matilda B. Ross, who has presided over the Relief Society of this stake since its organization, was honorably released, and Mrs. Nina Hansen was chosen president, with Mrs. Ada N. Anderson and Mrs. Annetta Christensen counselors, ad Mrs. Marie P. Larsen, secretary-treasurer. Snowflake Stake. The Snowflake stake Relief Society was reorganized April 27, 1924. Mrs, Nellie M. Smith, whose health has been failing, NOTES FROM THE FIELD 477 will be known as the Grant stake. Mrs. Harrington, who has beer. In ill health for a year, and who resigned some time ago, was honorably released with sincere regrets. The new officers of the Graniie stake Relief Society 'are: Mrs. Emmaretta G. Brown, president; Mrs. Elizabeth Allen and Mrs. Anna C. Kimball counselors; Mrs. Ellen F. Shepherd retained as secretary-treasurer. The officers appointed for the new Grant stake are as follows: Mrs. May B. Silver, president; Mrs. Blanche W. Daynes and Mrs. Lenore Fisher, counselors; Mrs. Marie H. Tanner, secretary-treasurer. Cheerfulness Coral J. Black All Nature's efforts tend to Cheerfulness; To smooth the rough, to glorify the plain, To hide defects, and to the beauteous give More beauty. To this end her master skill Places before our eyes delightful scenes Of peace and joy, which banish sickly gloom. The open fire with bright flames leaping high; The pictured scenes that in the red coals glow; The braided wheels upon the sanded floor; The saucy wild rose peeping o'er the sill; The jean hound, slumbering on his outstretched paws Old Tabby on the softest cushion curled; The yeliow bowls, of milk and wiheaien bread; The rosy lips; the curly, tousled head; The lowing cows; the loudly clamoring geese; The covert glance of maid; the bashful swain; The fragrant breath of spring; the glis'ning rain The hovering sky of gray; the hills close wrapt In misty curtains of the great god Storm; The radiant Heavens, bright with countless gems; The silver crescent gilding dusky peaks; The seam-scarred clift, o'er laid with velvet moss; The broken wall, by tender vine caressed; The sable pine; the: foaming mountain stream; The waves uncurling on the sandy beach; The cloak of Friendship, flashing many a pearl; Yea more of love than mortal lips can tell, Invites the sad and melancholy heart To nobler aims, to brighter views of life, To unalloyed, unhindered Cheerfulness. Guide Lessons for November LESSON I Thedlopy and Testimony THE PARABLES OF THE SAVIOR THE PARABLES OF THE SAVIOR (CONTINUED) The First Parable—The Friend at Midnight. Luke 11:5-8. "And he said unto them, Which of you shall have a friend, and shall go unto him at midnight, and say unto him, Friend, lend me three loaves; for a friend of mine in his journey is come 'to me, and I have nothing to set before him? And he from within shall answer and say, Trouble me not; the door is now shut, and my children are with me in bed; I cannot rise and give thee. I say unto you, Though he will not rise and give him, because he is his friend, yet because of his importunity he will-rise and give him as many as he needeth." The Setting: A place of retirement; an hour of prayer; a request on the part of the disciples to be taught to pray. The Savior teaches them ~ the Lord's prayer. The major purpose of this parable is not teach- | ing men how to pray, but to teach them to persist in prayer. The parable is supplemented with the divine declaration: "Ask and it shall be given you; seek and ye shall find; knock. And it shall be opened unto you." And this admonition is supplemented by the promise, "For every one that asketh receiveth; — and he that seeketh findth; and to him that knocketh it shall be opened." This promise is followed 'by a vividly illustrative statement of the certainty of the Spirit of the Lord being sent to those who fervently pray for it. The parable shows the importance of praying for others; the friend at midnight persisted in his petition not for himself but for a friend, and he prevailed in the name of friendship. He could go without bread himself, but he could not let his midnight friend go to bed hungry. He would accept no excuses; he pushed his unselfishness to a point where it overcame the selfishness of his neighbor. The manner in which the Savior commended the persistency of the man's request for the three loaves of bread for a hungry guest, points to the consistency of the saying: "As the Lord loveth a cheerful giver; so He loveth an earnest untiring asker." In this parable there is no comparison, for there is no room for a comparison between the Lord and the reluctant GUIDE LESSONS FOR NOVEMBER 479 furnisher of the loaves. There is ample opportunity, however, to distinguish between them. There is no way to "weary" blessings from the Lord. Anything obtained from him through inconsistent persistency will be proved as it always has been proved not to be a blessing. In the presence of the Spirit of the Lord, persistency in prayer. Will be accompanied by such consistency as was manifest in the garden of Gethsemene. The Second Parable—The Importunate Woman, or the Unjust Judge. Luke 18:2-5. "There was in a city a judge, which feared not God, neither regarded man: and there was a widow in that city; and she came unto him, saying, Avenge me of mine adversary, And he would not for a while; but afterward he said within himself, Though I fear not God, nor regard man; yet, because this widow troubleth me, I will avenge her, lest by her continual coming she weary me.". The Setting: This parable was evidently spoken to a mixed multitude. The Principal object of the parable is plainly set forth in the first paragraph of the chapter. Put in the negative and it would read: "Don't get tired, or weary not in praying. When we consider how much faith is weakened by the apparent futility of prayer, it is little wonder that the Savior placed so much importance upon the importance of persisting in prayer. The great teacher had presented the lesson to his disciples and now he gives it to the masses in a manner that would demand interest. The lesson is one taught by triple contrasts. A rich man and a poor widow. A powerful potentate and a helpless woman. The meanness of man and the majesty of God. The judge was then as now a representative of no small class of self-sufficient autocrats, fearing nobody and feeding on everybody. Lovers of pleasure more than lovers of men. A devotee of ease without an ideal. A mortal to whom the letter "I" is a symbol of the universe. The widow, a typical appealer for justice; a seeker for merited consideration; a persistent 'petitioner. She won out not by the justice of her cause, but by the persistency of her request. The untiringness of her pleadings brought justice from an unjust source; hence, secured results from the act of a coward. This persistency is made to triumph in the field of sheer selfishness. Then in his explanation the Savior declares the absolute certainty of firm redress; absolute for those who persist in appealing to the source of justice and mercy. The widow's prayer may have been based on self-interest, but not on selfishness, for one is the seeking of one's share and the other is seeking for more than is due. The parable furnished a groundwork GUIDE LESSONS FOR NOVEMBER 481 in providing the one and in catching the other, they had no interest. They had little or no concern about the future. The unrighteous steward was capable but his carelessness made him unreliable. His carelessness crowded him to crooked- _ ness. The Lord of the estate, while condemning his indolence and despising his dishonesty, commended his prudence in providing for the future; and here is the real lesson for which the parable was given. It is wise to provide for the future. The Savior's comment that "the children of this world are in their generation wiser than the children of light," pointed to the fact that energetic unbelievers, doing what they can to save themselves, manifest greater wisdom than lethargic believers who do little or nothing for their salvation, leaving it all to the Lord. The Savior's advice following the parable, "And I say unto you, Make to yourselves friends of the mammon of unrighteousness; that, when ye fail, they may receive you into everlasting habitations." Some have thought that Jesus was recommending the securing of the friendship of persons of wealth, as a source of salvation, in an hour of ethical or religious failure. In this line of thought the pronoun "they" would of necessity have for 'its antecedent the rich people, when the fact is that the antecedent is the mammon of unrighteousness, which is riches and not people. And herein Jesus brought into prominence the salvation value of riches both here and hereafter. How can riches have an everlasting habitation, or have anything to do with an everlasting habitation, when we all know that a time will come when we shall fail to possess anything on earth. How can we make riches our friends? By accumulating them through thrift, and doing good with them. How can riches have an eternal, everlasting habitation. Riches can have an everlasting habitation through the good that is accomplished by them. No one questions the declaration that men's works shall follow them, and is not the use of their wealth a part of their works? An honest tithing, a generous donation, a benevolent endowment, are all samples of riches as being made friends that possess and give an everlasting habitation. They can not even be thought of without a thrill of satisfaction, thus making a heaven which is an everlasting part of the individual.: The following quoted from Jesus the Christ, by Elder James E. Talmage, is illuminating: "Emulate the unjust steward and the lovers of mammon, not in their dishonesty, cupidity, and miserly hoarding of the wealth that is at best but transitory, but in their zeal, forethought, and provision for the future. Moreover, let not wealth become your master; keep it to its place as a servant, for, "No servant can serve two masters: for either he GUIDE LESSONS FOR NOVEMBER 483 19. What is the mammon of unrighteousness referred to by the Savior in his comment on this parable? 20. How may we make of riches friends that will help to furnish an everlasting habitation? 21. When do we begin to stop using and begin to serve riches? LESSON II WorK AND BUSINESS LESSON III (Third Week in November) ~Literature NATHANIEL HAWTHORNE'S WRITINGS Nathaniel Hawthorne married Sophie Peabody whom he had greatly admired from the first time he saw her. His intimate association with the Peabody family brought him in close coritact with Emerson, Bronson Alcott, and his gifted daughter, Louisa May. It was part of the philosophy of Emerson and Alcott to protest against convention, as they believed that strict adherence to it inhibited progress. In this belief Hawthorne appears to have shared. He was deeply interested in a study of the soul and for this reason he is often spoken of as one of the first novelists to emphasize psychology in American literature. Still, he is not the type of psychologist that we have developed at the present time. When we speak of Hawthorne as a psychologist, we have reference to his keen and penetrating dscription of the soul, rather than of his ability to make an exhaustive analysis of the human mind. Hawthorne was a real Puritan in that he was deeply interested in moral ideas. Usually he thought of the abstract moral idea, and then the plot seemed to shape itself in such a manner as to give concrete example to the abstract idea. Hawthorne appreciated the fact that the double standard of morals in a case of sex immorality exacted a greater toll of suffering from a woman than it did from her partner in crime; consequently he yzave us The Scarlet Letter. Hawthorne's stories are usually painted against a dark background of Puritan tradition, and in this story 'we are made to realize how keen the pangs of the Puritan conscience when condemned by the laws of God and the laws of society. He penetrates deeply into the souls of Hester Prim and Arthur Dimmesdale, her seducer: the woman socially ostracized, the man able to conceal his wrong from the public, yet punished 484 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE severely by a guilty conscience. Because of Hawthorne's depth of penetration into the souls of the leading characters of his story, he has made his book the first American classic as well as one of the classics of the world-én this theme. He has intensified the conflict and dramatic interest of his story by making the hero a minister, for the minister to the Puritan was the highest embodiment of morality. He was both the spiritual and intellectual leader of Puritan society. What the minister thought and said and did was infinitely more important than that which was thought and said and done by others, consequently, in selecting a minister as the perpetrator of the crime and a woman of his congregation to be the partner in his guilt, Hawthorne brought about a condition of conflict which is dramatic in the highest sense of the word. In The House of Seven Gables we have the graphic painting of a story whose setting is Salem in its: days of witchcraft. Hawthorne makes use of a curse that was pronounced on his own ancestor, John Hawthorne, who was a severe magistrate in witchcraft days. "The glimpses of life in Salem are interesting, and the Pinchon family, around whom the story centers, are more entertaining than any other group to be found in Hawthorne's novels." The theme is the visiting of the sins of the fathers upon the heads of the children. In this novel Hawthorne brings to the fore the emotional conflict which was so serious a part of the lives of the people of Salem, whose religion, in some instances, went beyond the bounds of helpfulness into a field of fanaticism that caused indescribable suffering. The inspiration of The Blithedale Romance was the author's experience at Brook Farm where he, along with other literary notables of the time, was seeking to establish a community on a basis of social equality. This book is not, as a rule, interesting to young people, but older people are interested in noting the high spirited Zenobia who is constantly bruising herself because of the narrow limitations afforded her sex at her time. In 1860 Hawthorne published the Marble Faun. This was written while he was abroad and is one of the early attempts on the part of American literature to make use of European material. It was inspired by seeing the marble faun, a piece of sculpture by the Greek sculptor Praxiteles, in the Vatican Museum, at Rome. It is a tale of mystery that would in all probability develop i in a land of art and Roman Catholicism. Today people value the book as much for its many descriptions of places of interest in Rome as they do for the story. It is in no small sense a guide book to Rome. All of Hawthorne's writings were not of the gloomy sort. In his short stories, which are among the best in American lit- oF GUIDE LESSONS FOR NOVEMBER 485 erature, we have some idealistic tales. In David Swan. The Great Stone Face, The Maypole at Merrymount, The Ambitious Guest, The Great Carbuncle, and The Wedding Knell we have a group of very exceptional short stories. The theme is usually quite apparent in Hawthorne's short stories, indeed, he himself said of the Great Stone Face that it was somewhat marred by the certainty of the theme which is everywhere in evidence in the story. David Swan, which is the story of fortune, good or ill, is rather pleasing in its outline, so that we include it in a condensed form in the lesson. David lies on the bank of a river. We knew nothing of David until we found him at the age of twenty on the highroad to the city of Boston where his uncle, a small dealer in the grocery line, was to take him behind the counter. He was a native of New Hampshire and had received an ordinary school education with a classical finish. After journeying on foot from sunrise until nearly noon of a summer's day, he determined to sit duwn in the first convenient shade and await the coming of the stage coach. There soon appeared a little tuft of maples and a fresh bubbling spring. He kissed it with his thirsty lips and then flung himself along the brink, pillowing his head upon some shirts and a pair of pantaloons tied up in a striped cotton handkerchief. This grassy lair satisfied the young man better than a bed of down, and a deep sleep fell upon David Swan. While he lay asleep other people were wide awake, and passed to and fro on foot and on horseback. Some looked neither to the right hand nor to the left, some merely glanced that way, some laughed to see how soundly he slept. - David had been asleep only a few moments when a handsome pair of horses bowled easily along and were brought to a standstill at the place where he was resting. An old couple watched him. The longer they looked the more interested they became. "Providence seemed to have laid him there,' whispered the wife to her husband, "and to have brought us, hither to find him after our disappointment in our cousin's son." "To what purpose," said the merchant, hesitating. "We know nothing of the youth's character." "That open countenance, this innocent sleep," replied his wife. While these whispers were passing, the sleeper's heart did not throb nor his breath become agitated, yet fortune was bending over him just ready to let fall a burden of gold. "Shall we not awaken him?" repeated the lady persuasively. "The coach is ready, sir," said the servant behind. The old couple started, reddened, and hurried away, mutually 486 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE wondering that they should ever have dreamed of doing anything so very ridiculous. Next came along a pretty girl at a tripping pace. She turned aside into the maple trees and found there a young man asleep by the spring. A monster of a bee had been wandering overhead amongst the leaves until finally it appears to be settling on the eyelid of David Swan. The girl attacked the intruder with a handkerchief and drove it from the maple shade. 'H'e is handsome," thought she, and blushed redder yet. So she came, the maid whose soul, according to the old and beautiful idea, he yearned to meet. Her only could he love with a perfect love; him only could she receive into the depths of her heart. Now this girl's father was a thriving country merchant in the neighborhood and happened to be looking out for just such a young man as David Swan. Had David formed a wayside acquaintance with the daughter, he would have become the father's clerk and all else in natural succession. Again had the best of fortune stolen so near him, yet he knew nothing of the matter. A couple of rascals turned aside beneath the maple shade. They planned to rob David, but the thought of his waking deterred the action. They approached the unconscious David, and while one pointed the dagger toward his heart, the other began to search the bundle beneath his head, but at this moment a dog, scenting along the ground, came in béneath the maple trees and gazed at these wicked men and then at the quiet sleeper. "Pshaw," said one of the villains, "we can do nothing now, the dog's master must be close behind." In a few moments they had forgotten the whole affair, nor once imagined that the recording angel had written down the crime of murder against their souls in letters as durable as eternity. As for David Swan, he still slept quietly, neither conscious of the shadow of death when it hung over him, nor of the flow of renewed life when that shadow was withdrawn. But a noise of wheels came rattling louder and louder along the road, until it dashed through the dispersing mist of David's slumber; and there was the stage-coach. He started up with all his ideas about him. "Halloo, driver! Take a passenger?" shouted he. "Room on top!" answered the driver. Up mounted David, and bowled away merrily toward Boston without so much as a parting glance at that fountain ot dreamlike vicissitude. He knew not that a phantom of wealth had thrown a golden hue upon its waters, nor that one of love had sighed softly to their murmur, nor that one of death had threatened to crimson them with his blood, all in the brief hour since he lay down to sleep. Sleeping or waking, we hear not the airy footsteps of the strange things that almost happen. Does it GUIDE LESSONS FOR NOVEMBER 487 not argue a superintending providence that, while viewless and unexpected events thrust themselves continually athwart our path, there should still be regularity enough in mortal life to render foresight even partially available?" QUESTIONS 1. Go toa dictionary of proper names or some other equally good reference work and find out when and where Praxiteles lived and tell, if possible, some other piece of sculptor besides the Marble Faun for which he is noted. 2. In the class discuss the attitude of society at the present time toward sex crime on the part of a woman. Have some older member of the organization tell whether the attitude is less severe today than it was thirty or forty years ago. Whatever be the conclusion, to what do you attribute the change? 3. Name some traits of Puritan character that are admirable. 4.. What is the attitude of the American Indian towards the woman who is found to be unfaithful to her husband? 5. If you can obtain a copy of Hawthorne's story, "The Great Stone Face," have someone read it over very carefully and give the gist of it to the class. In most of our communities this story will not be difficult to obtain. LESSON IV Social Service (Fourth week in. November) PROBLEMS OF BEHAVIOR Any group of individuals living together measure each other's conduct by the accepted standard of the group. If an individual violates the standard, he suffers some sort of punishment. If the breach is a minor one, the penalty imposed on him may be merely a vaguely expressed disapproval or it may be a definite social ostracism. If his offense is a grave one, violating standards that have been crystallized and written on the statutes, his penalty is likely to be the disagreeable one of court action, fines or imprisonment, and the attending unpleasant publicity. It is not the purpose of this discussion to study the various standards of conduct, nor the statutes and methods by which the courts and penal institutions operate to punish offenders. The subject for consideration is that of conduct itself—of the elements that control behavior and the factors that lead to anti-social GUIDE LESSONS FOR NOVEMBER — 489 feel that his own desires conflict too much with social customs, he will develop an unhealthy attitude towards society and its demands. If he is shielded and protected too long and too carefully by his parents, he may be incapable of meeting his own moral issues if he suddenly confronts a crisis. He may, because of _too much attention and pampering, develop an emotion instability that will influence his behavior unfavorably. He may, if too severely rebuffed when he makes innocent errors, become afraid of consequences if he speaks or acts, and so he may become a quiet, withdrawn type of person who later will have difficulty adjusting in any group. Conduct, too, is influenced by health, and by the physical and emotional make-up of the individual. Tt is as difficult to analyze the characteristics of Persons who seem not to be able to rise above their failures as it is to define the traits that make for success, While the understanding of conduct is stil] émperfect, it is significant that sociologists and psychologists and welfare foundations, etc., are becoming increasingly more interested in the study of individual and social causes of human successes and failures. QUESTIONS AND PropLems 1, What are some of the things a normal home would teach a child under six? 2. How should a child first be taught that he should not take things that belong to others? 3. Name the ways that a child learns that lying is not - socially approved. 4. What dangers are there in being too severe with a child at his first social errors? 5. What dangers in being too lenient? Teachers' Topic for November Temple Work The Lord "will have all men to be saved." 1 Tim. 2:4. A. During this time of rejoicing and thanksgiving for the bounties of life, let us also rejoice in the great privilege of saving mankind through baptism and work for those who had not that opportunity for themselves. B. Give thanks and Praise to the Lord for the revealed knowledge of eternal life and salvation, "God's greatest gift to man." All in the State of Mind Dr. Croft If you think you are beaten, you are; If you think you dare not, you don't, If you like to win, and don't think you can, It's almost a chinch you won't. If you think you'll lose, you're lost, For out in the world we find Success begins with a fellow's will; It's all in the state of mind. @ Full many a race is lost Ere even a step is run, And many a coward fails Ere even his work is begun. Think big and your deeds will grow, Think small and you'll fall behind, Think that you can and you will— It's all in the state of mind. If you think you're outclassed, you are; You've got to think high to rise. You've got to be sure of yourself before You can ever win a prize. Life's battles don't always go To the stronger or faster man; But, sooner or later, the man who wins Ts the man who THINKS he CAN. —Exchange. lia««# POUR, Mothers Know! Mothers know the value of helpful discipline. Doubtedly that's why the demand of the University of Utah for seriousmindedness on the part of its students is so widely appreciated. Young men and young women must work if they remain: at this great State School. UnWondrous opportunity for training is afforded! Almost every branch of learning may be followed here. Mothers will appreciate especially the Home Economics departsuent under the able direction of Prof, Rose Homer Widtsoe. The School of Education is training the teachers of Utah. No examination of University graduates is required by the State for teacher certification. Your boys and girls will find a real opportunity for achievement at this ins'itution. Arrange now for them to attend. REGISTRATION SEPT. 25-26-27 For additional Information address the President University of Utah SALT LAKE CITY USING THE SUGAR THERMOMETER Candy may be successfully made without a sugar thermometer, | but the use of the thermometer obviates the close watching that is otherwise necessary. The following table explains the terms used in candy making, together with the degrees on the thermometer. Thread stage, 220 to 225 degrees F., or when & thread hangs from the spoon, when it is lifted from the syrup. Soft Ball stage, 238 to 240 degrees F., or when a soft ball is formed when a little of the syrup is dropped in cold water. "Chewy Bali" stage, 250 to 252 degrees F., or when a fairly hard ball is formed when a little of the mixture is tried in cold water. Crack Stage, 290 to 300 degrees F., or when a little of the mixture rattles against the cup when tried in cold water., WHITE FONDANT 24 Ibs. Utah granulated sugar, or 1% cupfuls hot water.. 5 cupfuls. 2 teaspoonful cream of tartar. Put the ingredients into a smooth saucepan. Stir until dissolved, and heat gradually to boiling point. Boil without stirring until, when tried in cold water, a soft ball may be formed that will keep its shape. The temperature will be 238 degrees F. If the sugar adheres to the sides of the kettle, remove with a piece of wet cheesecloth. -Pour slowly onto a slightly-oiled slab, or a large platter, oiled. Let it stand for a few minutes to cool, or until when pressed with the finger a dent is left-on the surface, and yet no crust is formed.. If stirred while too hot, it will grain. If a crust forms, every particle must be taken off, or else the boiling must be done again. When it will dent, scrape the fondant together and work with a wooden spoon or spatula, until it is white and creamy. 'It will quickly change from this consistency, so begin kneading while it is still creamy, otherwise it will lump, and will be difficult to handle. Scrape the slab and knead the scrapings separately.. Do not mix the fondant unless it is perfectly free from lumps. Put it into a bowl, cover with oiled paper or a damp cloth and let stand twenty-four hours before using. Before using fondant for dipping it must be put over hot water and steamed, and it may be necessary to add a little hot water to allow for the evaporation which will take place while the fondant is being kept hot. Fondant may be kept an indefinite time, if closely covered with a damp cloth and then with a cover. ' QUICK FONDANT 2 egg whites. 24 ecupfuls confectioner's Utah Flavoring. Sugar. Beat the whites slightly, and add the sifted sugar, a little at a time, until stiff enough to knead. Work in flavoring as desired. Then cover the hands and dredge the board with sugar, and form the candies in the shapes desired. CHRISTMAS LOAF 6 cupfuls Utah sugar. ~ ' 12% cupfuls cold water. 1-8 teaspoonfull cream of tartar.: Make a fondant of the above ingredients, divide it when done into three parts, flavoring one with almond and coloring it pale green, a second with cinnamon, leaving it white and the third with a square (ounce) of melted chocolate and a little vanilla extract. Only vegetable colorings should be used. Rub an oblong pan (bread tin) with olive oil and make on the bottom a design of holly with leaves cut from angelica and red candies. Gently press the white layer onto this, spreading it evenly, then press on the green and then the chocolate layer. Let stand twenty-four hours to stiffen, unmould and wrap in parraffine paper. There is no difference between refined BEET and refined CANE sugar. It has been tested by highly trained chemists with a most elaborate laboratory equipment and there has been found no distinction between BEET and CANE Sugar. It is the very best for candy-making. 4 Compare the Pages of Che Deseret News with those of any other paper. Notice that while the paper is clean and fit for any child to read it is also interesting and informative in the highest sense—And you get "TODAY'S NEWS TODAY" Individual Sacrament Sets Now in Stock BEST IN THE MARKET WILL LAST A LIFE TIME 36 GLASSES IN EACH TRAY er eees pecey anette RECOMMENDED BY PATRONS. REFERENCES FURNISHED Made especially for L. D. S. Churches, and successfully used in Utah and Intermountain region, also in all Missions in the United States, Europe, and Pacific Islands. Basic metal, Nickel Silver, heavily plated with Solid Silver. SIMPLE, SANITARY, DURABLE Satisfaction guaranteed Inquiries cheerfully answered THE LATEST ACKNOWLEDGMENT Bishop's Office, Bern, Idaho, May 2, 1921. "I am in receipt of the Individual Sacrament Set, consisting of four trays and the proper number of glasses. "Everything arrived in good condition, We are very pleased with it. I take this oceasion to thank you for your kindness." BUREAU OF INFORMATION Temple Block Salt Lake City Hloleproof N f{esierg fr—. Glazier and Taylor HOSIERY COMPANY 33 EAST BROADWAY A Store Dealing in Quality Hosiery and Underwear Exclusively Heavy Silk Full-Fashioned, all colors A wonderful hose for wear Per Pair... 2.00 Box of Three Pairs $5.75 Silk Semi-Fashioned, all colors, beautiful and durable Per Pair $1.50 Box of Three Pairs.. $4.25 Silk with Extra Stretch Elastic Top, the Comfort Stocking Fer Pair $1.50 Box of Three Pairs $4.25 Pure Silk, Semi-Fashioned, very durable All Colors, Per Pair $1.00 Box of Three Pairs $2.85 MAIL ORDERS PREPAID Jj By Mrs. J. Long, AA Book of 'Poems "The Beautiful Valley of Utah'' 20c per copy. Eureka, Utah, Box 129. When ordering mention Relief Society Magazine. JJ i | @) Sheets of Fine Whiting Paper (Not more than 3 lines). 281—24th Street Regular Size $ | OO Envelopes. 5 0 Delivered postpaid to your home. Printed with your name and address in fine blue plate Gothic. Send Money with order. Write plainly. Universal Stationery Supply Co. OGDEN, UTAH A ~ Theyte the BEST I ev () Pierce's Pork and Beans, always ready, insure a healthful and nourishing meal. Everlastingly backed by 'THE UTAH CANNING CO., OGDEN, UTAH ——y No Difference Between Refined Beet and Refined Cane Sugar The highly trained chemist with all his elaborate laboratory — equipment is not able to distinguish between BEET and CANE Sugar. © | BEET SUGAR produced in Utah and Idaho is of the highest developed refined process, which removes all impurities and yields an unexcelled quality of pure, white, fine, clean BEET SUGAR.. BEET SUGAR can be used for all purposes with entire success. Kuropeans, with a reputation for making the finest of preserves and confections, prefer BEET SUGAR. Keep your money in circulation at home. Patronize a great HOME INDUSTRY—one that gives employment to thousands and insures a profitable crop for the farmers. ' BUY BEET SUGAR S JITIAYAINAD AIHILIM WM Say HYPIN ad 28 SE OWCROF SSN fi arte eyee mar. Base? Eee ecee i Or +.*% 8 oe 6 SCOWCROFT Pp ai S the use of which you | put Olive Oil an exacting requirement of purity? © Then look for the Blue Pine label. It is your protection, your assurance that the container holds the finest grade of Olive Oil produced. Made from only. Ripened French Olives. It is sweet, rich in food content—and pure. Always ask for Blue Pine Olive Oil. Other BLUE PIN] products | RODUCT eliemes nena i) Mention Relief Society Magazine Vol. XI OCTOBER, 1924 No. 10 CONTENTS Frontispiece Elizabeth Claridge McCune Augusta W. Grant 493 A Happy Remembrance. Lula G. Richards 496 Why There Should be More Influence of Women in our Legislature.. Dr. Hugh Woodward 497 Editorial—Woman's Sphere Broadens The Associate Editor's Furlough Law Enforcement in America National Conference of Social Workers......... 504 Portrait of Mrs. Mabel Walker Willebrandt.. 506 Mrs. Mabel Walker Willebrandt Alice Louise Reynolds 507 Law and Order in Business. Mrs. Mabel Walker Willebrandt 509 The American Prison Association Congress... Katherine Palm 516 Notes from the Field....... Amy Brown Lyman 519 The Widow's Girls.... Elizabeth Cannon Porter 524 Clara A. Fagergren 526 Guide Lessons for Decembet........2.000.00.0.02....-.1532 Organ of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints Room 20 Bishop's Bldg. Salt Lake City, Utah $1.00 a Year—Single Copy, 10c Canada and — a Year—lic Single opy Baewed as second-class matter at the Posi Office. Salt Lake City, Utah ae as From head to foot at less than cost of a dress alone. Bloomer or Chemise Blouse; Vest; Skirt. 1 Pair Lady Tiffany Full Fashioned Hose. One Piece Dress, Blouse and Skirt. Like Cut. ALL FIT FOR A QUEEN IN LUK-SHU-RI KNIT Telephone or write for illustrated booklet to LOUETTA BROWN 214 Templeton Bldg.,. Salt Lake City, Utah. Mention Relief Society Magazine When Writing or Buying 'Temple and Burial Clothes Complete Suits For Men and Women Variety of Grades and Prices Prompt and Careful Attention to Mail—Telephone—Telegraph Orders Open Daily, 9 a. M.—5 p. M. General Board Relief Society 23 Bishop's Building Salt Lake City, Utah Phone Wasatch 3286 =~ ferent Jf > uJ z=~ww <<u) wOx Or¥9 OZ UZa "~O = a 3 o A Ov G BHONE WAS. $223 S {- W. M. McGONAHAY THE JEWELER 64 So. Main =~. B, ~. Phone Was. 1821 Salt Lake City, Utah When Shopping Mention Relief Society Magasine i, | Competent Office Help— Is always in demand. If you are bright, alert, and ambitious, you will find a business college training a wonderful investment. This is the best time of the year to begin. Write or call today. L. D. S. BUSINESS COLLEGE Day and Evening. SALT LAKE CITY All the Year \ @ To Our Magazine Subscribers We call your attention to the very high class firms who advertise in the Magazine, and ask, whenever possible, to give them your loyal support and patronage. Also kindly mention having read their advertisement in the Magazine. We hope by your assistance to prove our value as a medium through which to advertise. Magazine Management fr (— The "Temple Brand" Garments are handled only by your leading merchants. We make a Variety of Grades and Weights to meet every requirement, with strings and buttons, Jong or short sleeves and legs as you want them according to seasonable desires. Samples submitted on request. _ For Ladies, For Men No. 1—Flat Weave Light................ 95 No. 902—Ribbed Light Weight.... 1.25 No. 2—Ribbed Weave Light............ 1.25 No. 903—Ribbed Extra Quality.... 1.75 No. 15—Extra Quality Flat.............. 1.45 No. 925—Med. Light Weight........ 1.85 No, 803—Extra Quality Ribb...... 1.50 No. 975—Med. Heavy Weight...... 2.25 No. 825—Med. Weight Cotton...... 185 No. 990—Heavy Ecrn. Cotton........ 2.50 No. 800—Silk Stripe Med............ 2.00 No. 9107—Wool & Cotton............... 4.00 No. 850—Imp. Lisle..................:0000 2.50 No. 970—Silk & Wool & Cotton.... 4.50 _ To insure a good fit give bust measure, height, and weight, specify whether garments are for men or women, and state whether long sleeves ankle length or short sleeves three quarter legs are desired. Double Backs 25c extra. Garments marked 15c pair extra. We prepay postage to all parts: of United States. Oldest Knitting Company in Utah SALT LAKE KNITTING STORE, 70 Main St., Salt Lake City NEW GARMENTS. FAsk saun dealer for Z. C. M. I. Factory Made Kiddies' Allovers DUTCH CUT They are the famous Mountaineer Brand in dark blue, light blue, striped and khaki Mothers—they are just what you need for the _ little tots—and the kiddies like them too Fulfillment By Grace Ingles Frost. The promises. Of rejuvenate Spring, Have each in turn been loyally fulfilled; The foamy furrows that were erstwhile tilled Have yielded bounteous harvest from the seed That man had sown with care within their heart, To answer his necessity of need. Full well has Nature once more played her part, And hung rich hues of purple, red and gold, - In token of her triumph, everywhere. From mountain height and from the gleaming wold, The myriad voices of the vibrant air,. Have joined her as her resting time draws near _In one superb, divine magnificat, The swan song of her life unto the year. ELIZABETH CLARIDGE McCUNE THE 7 Relief Society Magazine Vol, XI - -.. =.:. OCTOBER, 1924... No. 10 Elizabeth Claridge McCune A CHARACTER SKETCH. By. Augusta W.. Grant. This tribute to my friend, this intimate portrayal of her character, is not my personal view alone, but in the building of it are combined the tributes called forth by the personal appeal her life has made to friends far and near, from the head of the Church down, and from her family. That her character was many-sided is shown by the responses made to the question, What to you was the outstanding characterie. ° of Sister McCune? These are some of the things contribute " er as to ne iiion and family. Her generosity. Her sincerity, whole-heartedness. Her humility. Her justice. The simplicity of her life. Her unselfishness, cheerfulness, optimism. Her self-sacrifice. Her industry and frugality. Her strength of character, independence. Her will to do the right. I. Undoubtedly the greatest thing in her life, that colored her whole existence, the thing that was life to her, was the gospel. There was no room in her soul for the slightest quiver of doubt as to its divinity and her ultimate destiny. She was loyal to her family, and especially for her husband did she always express the most devoted love and loyalty. Much can be said of her generosity in big things, as shown by one gift to the Church of her palatial home to be known as the McCune school of Music and Art; her support of missionaries 494 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE in. The field; her numerous private charities and contributions, — and last of all the bequest of $100.000 to the Church, to her rela-. Tives, and to her dear old-time friends. In all these things her husband's influence must be counted, as it was through his hearty co-operation and liberality that she was able to do so much. But there was seemingly a contradictory trait in her character that it was hard for some to understand, that was that they might call her unnecessarilyeconomizing, but always on herself, be it remembered.. _ She seemed to take absolutely no pleasure in arraying herself in jewels and fine rainment, of which she might have had an unlimited supply, but rather she inclined to the other extreme, and we saw her usually in the plainest and most unpretentious things. I think this may have been due in great measure to her innate delicacy of feeling in not wanting to outdo her friends and associates, most of whom were not so favored by fortune. Her husband has said that the greatest fault he could find with her was that she would not spend freely enough what he so lavishly bestowed upon her. Few husbands have this fault to complain of. 7 But the strenuous experiences, the rigid economy made necessary in her early pioneer life had so ingrained in her very being the principle of frugality that she could not tolerate the idea of spending for what she considered the extravagances of life. Although in later life her "lines were cast in pleasant places," while she had all the advantages of extensive travel and sojourn. In many lands, with the enjoyment of rare and beautiful things— she might have lived a life of idle luxury if she had so elected— but always her heart turned toward the homeland, to her Church and to her people. She loved the plain and common folk, the simple life; she loved to labor where the results would be for good, in the temple, among the people where she could minister as the humblest and most earnest Relief Society worker. It has been said that she was an artist and an architect. She did love to plan and build and furnish a home, and she had many opportunities of exercising her creative powers along this line, from the adobe house she assisted her father in building to the humble cottage her husband took her to first, and gradually to something more pretentious until the acme of elegance and beauty was attained in the mansion that is now a monument to her name. The McCune school of Music and Art is an appropriate name for this institution as it will foster not only music alone, but all the arts, and two beautiful and costly pieces of sculpture Why There Should be More Influence of Women in Our Legislature Dr. Hugh Woodward, Brigham Young Unversity Because of certain developments that have taken place in modern civilization, society is being deprived of a very important type of thinking and feeling which is and has been essential to the development of man. Somebody is being deprived of this. Influence not so much because it is the desire of anyone, but because of certain specific habits of mind which have been developed. The type of thinking in question is that which has been carried on largely by the women of the world—an interest in humanistic values as contrasted with property values. In the early part of the race, a natural division of labor grew up between men and women. The home was not very well organized, family conditions were not as stable as they were later on, the care of the offspring naturally fell upon the mothers, rather than upon the fathers. As fatherhood became a branch of motherhood, man concerned himself with protecting the home from invasion and other destroying influences. Later on, as society developed, man naturally became interested in property and in property rights, while the home was the institution primarily concerned with the welfare of the child. Woman became the guardian of these humanistic interests and man became the guardian of property and protective interests.. The child's education, its moral and religious teaching was cared for largely by the mother. She was concerned about its health, its play, its recreation, its food, etc. The man interested himself in lands, flocks herds and property rights. When governments were established they were established to take care of these property rights, and not the humanistic rights. Down until the beginning of our own democracy, no government interested itself in education, health, recreation, morals, or character. It has been estimated a number of times by the legal profession and other competent judges, that ninety-five per cent of all legislation in all governments, is for the protection or creation of property. The evil of this condition was not so evident as long as our homes were the centers of education, religious and moral training, and physical development; so long as our mothers were concerned wholly with these humanistic values. But modern civilization in all its complexity has changed this original and simple division of labor. The rise of the industrial system and the growth of the modern city have both tended to break up the unity of the original home. The extreme competition and strug- 498 - RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE gle for existence has made it necessary for the mother to become a wage earner to supplement the family budget. In fact, it has become so difficult to maintain standards of living set in this mass of population, that literally thousands of men have failed entirely to take on any responsibilty of the family life. Since there are about as many women as men, this means that at least an equal number of women must sustain their own life with an economic independence produced by their own ability. So chaotic has the family life become in our modern cities, that in millions of cases what family organizations do exist are failing to care properly for these humanistic values. Consequently the state has to take over many of the duties which were at one time taken care of in the homes. It has been compelled to concern itself with education of the child with proper recreational facilities; with the protection of the child from evil and destroying influences which would destroy the morals as well as the health. So evident are these changes to every one, that no one questions that one of the essential duties of the state is to take care of these very things, so the state has literally become the mother as well as the father and guardian of its citizens. But while the stake has assumed so many other responsibilities once cared for by the mothers of the race, the governments and legislative bodies continue to concern themselves with property and property rights. No one denies but that our legislature should spend much of their time caring for these humanistic values, but the same habit of mind that dominated the early legislative bodies in all governments, has continued to dominate the legislatures of our modern state. It is as true today as it was two hundred years ago, that men think in terms of protection of property and property ownership. Since woman has not been into these councils, as civilization has changed, there has been a great lack of interest in the human side of life. This is not because man would have it so; it is not because man is opposed to woman making the greatest contribution of which she is capable, but it is because of habits that dominate the action of both men and women. Even women, on election day, demonstrate the fixed habit of the past—they will vote for most any grade of man and turn down the most capable woman. Men, too, while they subscribe to the idea of the beneficial effects of women's influence in our legislative bodies, on election day cast their votes for men. Another set of habits which are even more detrimental than this habit of thinking that men only are capable of serving: in governmental affairs, is the habit which becomes evident after these legislatures meet. Practically every platform today has a number of its planks dealing with humanistic valuées., They are values in which we are all interested and to which most everyone subscribes, but when the legislatures open, these problems are WOMEN IN OUR LEGISLATURE | 499 relegated to positions of less importance and are preceded by bills dealing with lands, mines, and various phases of industry. In fact property instead of humanistic values receive the attention of our legislators. As a result, our legislatures go on, one after another, thinking how much they would like to do along these lines, but doing what they have always done—considering first the rights of property, and leaving little time for these newer things for which the state has recently assumed responsibility. In every state in this union there are women who have demonstrated their ability to think and administer. If they were in our legislatures in sufficient number to get a reasonable hearing, their minds would go where they have always gone in the past—to the moral and physical health, to the education and development of the children of the state. A man who knows the situation very well said to the writer that "more than seventy-five per cent of all the social legislation that has gone on the books of Colorado was fostered by the organized influence of women." In fact, practically all the social legislation of the last twenty-five years has had behind it the hearts of the mothers of our nation. The child labor laws, the better hours of labor for women in industry, | the better baby laws, the better health and sanitation laws and campaigns, the movement for parks and play-grounds, the eternal demand for greater educational advantages, all have been strongly urged by our mothers who have always been interested in these things. It is not that we need less interest in our property legislation with which man so persistently concerns himself, but it is - that we need more social and humanistic legislation which woman is so thoroughly prepared by nature to foster. If we could overcome one persistent habit of mind, much would be done to solve this problem. The problem is that of electing to our legislatures, representatives all of one sex. These bodies should be divided into a reasonable balance by electing enough. Women to form centers of influnce sufficient to foster this type of legislation. We would make no less progress in our usual type of legislation, but would make infinitely more in matters of social legislation. Since the states are fast assuming the duties of fathers and mothers, as well as those of the protectors of its citizens, the feeling and thinking of our mothers must become a part of our law making bodies. Just a Woman By Elsie E. Barrett I know a woman, oh! So well, Just listen while this tale I tell, Of things she's done. She's not as cruel as it seems, But still her face with conquest beams: Of fear there's none! I've seen her do a lot of things That to my heart a sadness brings Beyond recall! I saw her strike a match—how rude! And then she struck an attitude: There was no stall! She beat some eggs, till they turned white, Then pounded meat, with all her might! Oh! It was sad. She whipped the cream till it was stiff And paddled butter cried, "O biff!" It was so mad! She scratched a letter, licked the stamps, Then squeezed a dollar, gave it cramps: The eagle yelled! She wasn't satisfied with that, So squeezed a lemon good and flat! ' She seemed compelled— To whip, to rap, to beat and mash, 'Till all were jumbled in a hash: Oh! What a rush! She scraped the skins from off the face Of new potatoes—with good grace: Her face aflush! And then she cut out all their eyes, As though she was a surgeon wise: The law she mocks! At last she was all out of breath, And sat her down as pale as death; To darn the socks! If we but knew— I said I knew this woman well, And this queer tale you've heard me tell Is nothing new! She does these things most every day, Without one single bit of pay; EDITORIAL Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah Motto—Charity Never Faileth THE GENERAL BOARD MRS. CLARISSA SMITH WILLIAMS - +: - -_- President MRS. JENNIE BRIMHALL KNIGHT - - - - -_ = _ First Counselor MRS. LOUISE YATES ROBISON - - - -. += + = Second Counselor MRS. AMY BROWN LYMAN -.- - | = _. General Secretary and Treasurer Mrs. Emma A. Empey. Mrs. Lotta Paul Baxter Mrs, Ethel Reynolds Smith Mrs. Jeanette A. Hyde Mrs. Julia A. Child Mrs. Barbara Howell Richards Miss Sarah M. McLelland Mrs. Cora L. Bennion Mrs. Rosannah €. Irvine Mrs. Annie Wells Cannon Mrs. Julia A. F. Lund Miss Alice Louise Reynolds Mrs. Lalene H. Hart Mrs. Amy Whipple Evans Mrs. Lizzie Thomas Edward, Musie Director Miss Edna Coray, Organist RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Editor - ~ 2 os -. - - - Crarissa SmitH WILLIAMS Associate Editor - =r) - - - - - AxicE Louise REYNOLDS Business Manager - - - - - - - ° Jeanette A. Hype Assistant Manager - - < - - - -. - Amy Brown Lyman Room 29, Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah Vol. XI OCTOBER, 1924 — No. 10 Woman's Sphere Broadens Women are concious of the fact that the scope of their power has been increased through the granting of the franchise. Everything points to the fact that more and more women will assume larger responsibilities away from the home, which does not, of. Course, intimate that they are expecting to relinquish their place in the home as the presiding genius. More than ever before the influence of woman has been felt in the national political conventions of our country, and reports reach us that there is every reason to be proud of the women who were at those conventions. From a gentleman whose affiliation with the Republican party, and who was a visitor at the Democratic national convention, we learn that the addresses delivered by the Democratic women before the convention, were appropriate, well prepared, well delivered, and within the time limit. From a lady who is affiliated with the Democratic party and who was a visitor at the Republican convention we hear an equally flattering report of the conduct of Republican women. This. Must be a source of pride to all women. We trust that wherever women are entrusted with responsibility they will so conduct themselves that they will win the admiration of those whose admiration is worth their having. We trust that the ability that women bring to their work will establish them soa) RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE in the minds of all generous, well-meaning people who welcome areal contribution, no matter from what source it comes. Women are doing a vast amount of social welfare work in the world, and because of this they have information relating to conditions in society that should prove valuable in the framing of state and national laws. The Associate Editor's Furlough As this issue of the Magazine goes to press, the associate editor is leaving the office for a furlough of twelve months abroad, yet she is in no sense leaving the Magazine. Much time has been devoted to the periodical during the summer months and while we are abroad we shall continue to make contributions to its ed'- torial page and other columns. It is our sincere desire that whatever we partake of and enjoy the readers of the Magazine shall, as far as possible, also partake of and enjoy. In due course of time we shall furnish the Magazine with a series of articles entitled "The Editor Abroad" or "Travel in Europe," which will enable our readers to follow us in our sojourn which we hope will be profitable and delightful throughout. We are going abroad for the sole purpose of enrichment which, of course, guarantees enrichment of the Magazine. We feel that it is not too much to say that one angle of our leave of absence that appeals to us very much is in the fact that we shall be able to collect material, far and near, that will make for a broader and better Magazine. Assistant Attorney General Mabel Walker Willebrandt on Law Enforcement in America In this issue of the Magazine we have had the good fortune to publish an article on law enforcement in the state of Massachusetts by Mabel Walker Willebrandt, U. S. Assistant Attorney General. It is one of the best addresses on law enforcement that we have seen during the period of stress through which we are now passing. —. ': In this address Mrs. Willebrandt says, 'There are two heedless groups that destroy reverence for law in America. They are the 'upper crust' and the 'dregs' of American life; the families of wealth and standing, who feel that they are above the law, and EDITORIAL ee "SOS the immigrant agitator who skulks beneath, seeking to undermine it from below." We think that this statement, on the part of the Assistant Attorney General, will not be a very great surprise to persons interested in this phase of our social life. The middle class has always been | the backbone of society, and even the casual observer may note the fact Mrs. Willebrandt draws attention to, in relation to the trend of crime in America. As we dictate this editorial, the trial of Leopold and Loeb is in progress in the city of Chicago. Within the year we have been reminded once again that Harry Thaw is of the wealthy criminal class, and two years ago the newspapers of the city of New York were fairly captured by the proceedings of the trial of a young criminal by the name of Ward, the son of a wealthy baker of New York. Those of wealthy families who are charged with crime are always played up in a conspicuous manner in the newspapers, yet the majority of our criminals are of the "dregs" of the country, as Mrs. Willebrandt pleases to call them. "Tt is a strange paradox," says Mrs. Willebrandt, "that Armer-. Ica, which stands out in relief against the background of all the countries of the world as offering the greatest liberty and greatest business opportunities, at the same time should have the greatest percentage of crime." It is a distinct disappointment to those who are filled with loyalty for our great republic and for our national ideals that this should be true. It is the business of the great law abiding middle classes to do whatever is in their power to reduce crime. Let it not forever be said that America leads the world in crime. Age and Youth By Bertha A. Kleinman A sear leaf severed, winter stained and rusted, A wilted shard that yesterday was gold, A feeble tread adown the dim steps groping, A-faint, a-weared—this is to be old. 'A pulsing vine amid the dank stalks clinging, Anon the impress of celestial day— - Each tendril blade uplifting to fruition, Nor doubt betiding—this is youth for aye! National Conference of Social Workers The fifty-first annual meeting of the National Conference of Social Work met in Toronto, Canada, June 25 to July 2, 1924. The attendance was large as usual, with between 3,000 and 4,000 delegates present, and the interest was keen throughout the week. Utah was well represented at the conference, there being in attendance the following delegates: Mrs. Louise Y. Robison and Mrs. Amy Brown Lyman, of the General Board of Relief Society; Miss A. A. Buffington and Miss Kate Williams, of the Charity Organization Society; Mr. Arthur L. Beeley, of the Y. M. M. I. A. General Board, who is now in attendance at Chicago University; the Rev. Mr. Carver and wife, of Ogden; Judge C R. Biadford of the Juvenile Court. The group of delegates who had gone from Utah was augmented by President and Mrs. Joseph Quinney of the Canadian mission, and about twenty-five _ missionaries, men and women who are working: in the Canadian mission. The Utah delegation had gone to Toronto with an invitation to the conference to hold its next annual meeting in Salt Lake City, and so conspicious and effective was the work of the delegates that the meeting was lost to Denver by only a narrow margin. The efforts of the Utah group in the interest of securing the meeting received much favorable comment and after the stereoptican pictures of Salt Lake and Utah scenery were shown at the close of one of the evening sessions to three thousand people, the Utah delegation was beseiged with inquiries and a general desire was expressed to bring the conference to Utah in the near future. The National Conference of Social-Work is fifty-one years old. It began as a part of the American Social Science Associa-, tion in 1874. The first meeting was attended by only the secretaries of three state boards of charities, and at the 1924 conference there were nearly four thousand in attendance. The object of the conference is to facilitate discussion of problems and methods of practical human improvement; to increase the efficiency of public and private agencies and institutions devoted to this cause; and to disseminate information with respect to welfare, work, The conference consists of ten permanent divisions as follows: Children, Delinquents and Correction, Health, Public Agencies and Institutions, The Family, Industrial and Economic Problems, The Local Community, Organization of Social Forces, Public Officials ee NATIONAL CONFERENCE OF SOCIAL WORKERS 505 -and Administration and Immigration. The officers consist of a president and three vice-presidents, elected annually, and a genera! Secretary whose office is permanent. The general secretary is a paid worker and manages all the details of the organization. After the election of officers each year, chairmen are appointed by the executive officers for each of the divisions. _ These chairmen choose their own committee members with the approval of the executive committee, and immediately make tentative outlines for the program for the next year's conference. The president of the 1924 conference was Miss Grace Abbott, director of the Children's Bureau at Washington, D. C. In her opening address she made a plea for normal opportunities for all American children. The delegates to the conference are specialists in every phase of social and welfare work. The speakers are men and women of national and international repute, including professors from the great universities, philosophers, government experts, and social workers, representing all types of social welfare. Among the many noted speakers, at the 1924 meeting, were a number of women, the foremost of whom are: Miss Grace Abbott, Miss Edith Abbott, Miss Jane Addams, and Mrs. Mabel W. Willebrandt, United States assistant attorney-general. Over sixty meetings were held in the ten divisions, and the subject of health, physical and mental, received much emphasis, as did also the subject of law enforcement. In every section pleas were made for greater interest in human life, and particularly the conservation of the youth. The importance of normal living conditions and of opportunities for the young were featured, and social workers were urged to institute preventive programs, © through education and legislation, as well as to give attention to present needs and distress "The service for the weak and heavy laden, for the least amongst our brothers, is not a sentimental ideal, but a law of life on which, in the end even self preservation depends."—Dr. Alice Saloman.: MRS. MABEL WALKER WILLEBRANDT Assistant United States Attorney General Mrs. Mabel Walker Willebrandt Alice Louise Reynolds English, Welsh, French, and German blood mingle in the veins of Mrs. Willebrandt. Her maternal ancestors are the Harwicks, Eatons, and Altons, of New York state, where these families have resided for several generations. Her father's ancestors all came from Pennsylvania and Tennessee. On both sides her people have been either farmers or teachers. A rather unusual number of her ancestors were college professors in the early colleges of the New England states. Her maternal grandfather, Thomas P. Eaton, served with the Seventh Missouri Cavalry in the Civil War. Twice he was discharged from service because of disabilities, but each time on his recovery he again volunteered, so that he was found in service at the end of the war, having taken part in the battle of Pea Ridge. Both Mrs. Willebrandt's mother and father were school teachers in Putnam and Mercer counties, Missouri. They were married in Stevens county, Kansas, where Mrs. Willebrandt was born on a homestead near Woodsdale, a point near what was then known as the Panhandle of Texas. On July 25, 1888, the Haystack Massacre occurred, which resulted in the shooting of Sheriff Cross and his posse of twelve men, including Cyrus W. Eaton, an uncle of Mrs. Willebrandt. Mrs. Willebrandt's father, D. W. Walker; was so much disturbed over the massacre that he determined to leave that part of the country. He moved with his wife and daughter, who was then a small child, to Lucerne, Missouri, where he bought and published the Lucerne Standard and served as postmaster. When Oklahoma was opened, Mr. Walker with his wife and child, drove in a covered prarie schooner from Missouri to Oklahoma. -For the second time he engaged in newspaper work, this time at Blackwell, his publication being known as the Blackwell Times. When Mabel reached her thirteenth year, her father, desiring better school advantages for her, moved the family to Kansas City, Missouri. Her parents took very much interest in her education and stimulated her intellectual growth a great deal by keeping good books and magazines before her. Her life on the farm seems to have taken root in her life for she has always been a keen observer and lover of nature. As she was only a child, she desired - conpanionship, and so her pafents took into their home two other girls, treating them in all respects as her sisters, 508 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE When she was thirteen years of age she had her first experience in a grammar school, the Humboldt School in Kansas City, Missouri, from which she was graduated in a little less than a year and entered a manual training school, in Kansas City. Later with her foster sister, Maude Hubbard, she entered Park college, Parkville, Missouri, and her parents moved to Michigan, where they opened the Buckley Bank in the new lumber town of Buckley, Michigan, at which place they resided until 1919, when they moved to a ranch on which they now live, near San Gabriel, California. Due to the illness of her foster sister, Mrs. Willebrandt left Park College. And began teaching in Buckley, Michigan. She attended Ferris Institute, at Grand Rapids, Michigan, a. Private school of former Governor Ferris, of Michigan. In 1910, she married A. F. Willebrandt, a high school principal of Buckley, Michigan, and, because of his broken health, she thereafter moved to Tempe, Arizona. She graduated from | normal school and the following year took the principalship of the Buena Park Grammar school, near Los Angeles, California. Later she was principal of the Lincoln Park school, in South Pasadena, during which time she pursued her studies of law in the University of Southern California from which University she received the degree of LL. B., and later the graduate degree of LL. M. In 1915 James A. Pope was made public defender for the city of Los Angeles, and Mrs. Willebrandt at that time, at his recommendation, started the first organized plan of defense of women charged with crime, by a woman attorney in any city in the United States. This work which was purely voluntary at first, 'was later incorporated as part of the city's method of handling women offenders. In the course of her duties, Mrs. Willebrandt found time to befriend and legally represent something over 2,000 woman accused of various crimes, and most valuable of all obtained a first hand knowledge and study of the social crimes of prostitution and poverty. Immediately after graduation Mrs. Willebrandt opened law offices in the Douglas building, Los Angeles, California, and has steadily won success at the bar and: increased respect from the attorneys and judges of Los Angeles. Nothing spectacular has marked her legal attainments, but steady growth in practice and success at the bar has followed earnest effort and diligent application. She has always worked fifteen to eighteen hours per day. She has found time, however, to participate in the woman's clubs and civic activities, serving as chairman of legislation of the Friday Morning Club, of Los Angeles, having eighteen hundred members, and being classed as the formost woman's club of the city. MRS. MABEL WALKER WILLEBRANDT 509 One year chairman of legislation of the Los Angeles County Business and Federal and Professional Women's Federation. Chairman of Legislation of the College Women's Club of Los Angeles. For two years chairman of legislation of the Los Angeles County Federation of Women's Clubs, numbering 22,000 women.. President of the Women Lawyers' Club of Los Angeles one _ year. President of the Professional Women's Club of Los Angeles, a well respected and established club composed of the women who are practicing physicians, attorneys and dentists of the city. Vice President of the Legislative Council for 1920-1921, and. Delegate to the Legislature to present the bill sponsored by the woman's organizations of the state. For five years a member of the Los Angeles County Bar Association, and of the California State Bar Association, she is one of the members from the Los Angeles County Bar Association on the Committee on Unlawful Practice of Law. Is one of the most active committee of the bar association and succeeded last year in passing a law curtailing illegal practices. In 1920 she was one of the delegates from the Los Angeles County Bar Association to the state convention. During the war Mrs. Willebrandt was Chairman of the Legal Advisory Board for District No. 11, in Los Angeles, the second largest district in the city, where she did yoeman service, almost day and night, during the draft period, thirty attorneys serving with her and under her direction. She has no particular sports that she indulges in, never having had time to pursue them regularly, but is extremely fond of mountain climbing and all outdoor life. During Summer vacations she has explored many remote and somewhat inaccessible portions of the California Rockies starting with no guide but a compass, a miners equipment, burrow and one or two women companions. - She has always been a Republican in politics and is now a member of the Republican State Central Committee of California. On the 27th of August, 1921, Mrs. Willebrandt was appointed Assistant Attorney General of the United States. The Attorney General placed her in charge of a division of the Department of Justice. All questions of policy, appeals and directions to the United States attorneys pass through her hands and she has general supervision and charge of all litigation arising in the 88 Federal districts of the United States and island processions under the following laws: 1. Taxation, other than customers, such as: (a) Income tax. (b) Estate tax. 510 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE (c) -Tax on admissions and dues. (d) Excise taxes. All matters arrising under the National Prohibition act. Indian liquor laws. All matters pertaining to the importations, exportations, transportation, manufacture, and traffic of liquor and other liquor statutes. 5. Customs and admiralty statutes as applied to liquor. 6. Prisons. 7. Requests from the President or members of the Cabinet for opinions on interpretation of law, on all matters relating to the foregoing subjects. Seo) Mrs. Willebrandt was admitted to practice before the. United States Supreme Court on motion of Attorney-General Harry M. Daughtery, October 3, 1921. It is not right that any man should be in bondage one to another. And for this purpose have I established the constitution of this land, by the hands of wise men whom I raised up unto this very purpose, and redeemed the land by the shedding of blood. Doc. And Cov. Sec. 101:79, We believe that governments were instituted of God for the benefit of man, and that he holds men accountable for their acts in relation to them, either in making laws or administering them, for the good and safety of society. Doc. And Cov. Sec. 134:1. Let no man break the laws of the land, for he that keepeth the laws of God hath no need to break the laws of the land. Doc. And Cov. Sec. 28:21. 512 ~. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE to the increasing obedience of the people to the laws of the State and Nation. In primitive society, business enterprises such as we conceive today were unknown. A man had what he personally could hoard. Airplanes, that conquer distances and the heights of the atmosphere about us; ocean liners, that regularly plow the waves between continents; great dams, that conserve water to turn arid regions into fertile fields; factories, that give work to thousands, and which supply the needs of food and clothing for vast surrounding areas; systems of railroads, that distribute the products of these factories and exchange those of one region with another, and the countless other manifestations of our complex business lives of today, have developed because laws were made and enforced to govern the conduct of man in these relationships. It is a strange paradox that America which stands out in relief against the background of all the countries of the world as offering the greatest liberty, and the greatest business opportunities, at the same time should have the largest percentage of crime. And the increase and contagion from that crime endangers our business life today, for we could continue to grow great and to maintain our business stability and to protect the development of our factories and our public improvements, in the face of a large amount of lawlessness, only so long as our population was sparse. In recent years the business men of America have come to> realize that the perpetuation of our liberal institutions and our business expansion is only possible if we safeguard the legal structure upon which those institutions are built. The problem today is not so much to enforce the law as it is to instill respect and voluntary obedience for law. There are two heedless groups that destroy reverence for law in America. They are the "uppermost" and the "dregs" of American life; the families of wealth and standing who feel that they are above the law, and the immigrant agitator who skulks beneath, seeking to undermine it from below! What this country needs today more than anything else to save it from the lawlessness from our tide of emigration and the thoughtless shirker of civic responsibility of our "best families" is a new view of peace patriotism; patriots who view their duty to stand by laws enacted by this nation whether they like the law or not as a sacred trust, and who hold honor above riches or _social fads. We need men who regard the laws of this country as the foundations of its business life; who refuse to spend their time quibbling as to whether they would have laid this or that stone in the foundation differently; and they refuse thereby to tear down the foundation because of different theories concerning its construction. We need men who obey the law themselves _—— LAW AND ORDER IN BUSINESS 513 first, and demand its obedience on the part of others. Such men as this are found today among the common people of this country; the sons and the grandsons and the great grandsons of emigrants who came here to find for themselves and to make for posterity a real liberty under law. Such citizens do not go after the shibboleth of personal liberty, and seek to find in it an excuse for evading a legal duty. _ The real responsibility for developing respect for law rests with the business men and women of the community, because they have their roots steadily growing in that locality and in combination they are all-powerful. You are such a group. Do you want an honest police force? One that joins hands with the federal government and cooperates to rid this country of lawlessness? You can have it! Do you want your police force to function and bear their full share of responsibility in making law violation a terror in the community? If the police magistrates hear your voice they will respond. Do you want the safety and welfare of your business enterprises to rest upon the whim of a political henchman, in a certain ward of this city, with whom you have to keep on good terms? Or do you prefer to develop your financial enterprises under the law respecting its mandates, and expecting and demanding only an honest deal from it in your legal involvements? It rests with you. You cannot evade the issue. If you desire decency in government, but fail as business men to compel it, corruption will appear. Governments, like other fine institutions, must be watched. The institution won't run itself. If you want a government you don't have to watch and work and pray for, then you'd better seek anarchy. Otherwise get out the business men's pruning knife, the best instrument known to a republican form of government, for weeding out corruption! You cannot do so by spending all of your time in your business office thinking only of money, while others tamper with the foundation upon which your wealth is built. You have got to 'look to the administration of your city gvernment; you have got to make the choice of whether you want to curry favor with the professional politician of each succeeding regime or whether you prefer to be represented by a man from whom no one dares to seek improper favors. The prohibition situation in your state is bad. It is peculiarly entrenched in an unfortunate attitude of distrust and defiance and resentment, ignorantly indulged in by some of your best families. Your city has a large foreign population. Those ignorant foreigners are not to blame so much if they make their living by lawless means when they see the men in whose blood runs the very sap of American traditions defy the Eighteenth amendment to the Constitution.. 514 _ RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Can you expect an immigrant to obey the laws of property rights, and those governing business stability, if he sees you choose others that you want to disobey? If you drink at your luxurious clubs; if 'you permit your sworn representatives to replenish their stocks of liquor from bootleggers' ware, can you expect the foreigner within our gates not to turn bootlegger to supply such demand? And, having early learned the lesson of skulking beneath the structure of one American law and the Constitution, and having learned the lesson in his bootleg enterprise of bribing its sworn defenders, do you believe your home and your business can long be safe from his organized attack? The opponents of the Eighteenth amendment have given such aid and comfort to the illicit peddler of intoxicants, and have met him with such eager patronage that he has grown to be a social menace. He pays no tax. Why: should legitimate business be taxed to the breaking point to support the forces of law and order and these fellows amass fortunes within a few months on which no business tax or income is paid? It upsets the uniform application of taxation burdens. It is causing a crop of millionaires with no culture or social background except outlawry who are buying into our best communities and clubs. That is the greatest social menace bootlegging presents and one reason why the bootlegger must go. He would make our government, known for its determination and grit, a laughing stock among the nations of the world. Europe is watching our great experiment. European observers seldom extend their investigations further than cities in the' eastern states, where comparative statistics already tell a story about the number of criminals we harbor or fail to catch. I'll tell you I am unwilling to have England, France, or any of Europe, say America started something she couldn't finish, or that our prohibition policy is a hypocritical declaration, and the Constitution of the United States is but a whited sepulchre of high-sounding but hollow guarantees. And that's what Europe is bound to say unless we gird up our loins and stop shilly shallying on the question of prohibition enforcement, feeling in our hearts that the fellow who cries, "Pst, a drink, $10, please," is, after all a kind of necessary chap! As Americans we wouldn't ordinarily patronize the peddler who sells stolen or smuggled goods—yet how about a bootlegger's wares? Liquor is expensive; we love to have our friends feel we can afford it. We dislike being bossed by reformers; so we say let's declare our independence by breaking "their law!" Catering to such emotions keeps the bootlegger flourishing, LAW AND ORDER IN BUSINESS _. 515 but I am certain that the time is coming, and is not far distant, when every public official, and every respectable person, will refuse to patronize the bootlegger and thereby illicitly contribute to the maintenance of forgery, smuggling and robbery, if he, himself, holds himself above theft and fraud. Our lawless element is largely recruited from the foreigner whose habits of life were moulded in superstition and oppression. He is used to the idea that public officials collect grafts; he came to this land of promise to get rich—fabulously rich quickly. Bootlegging liquor or narcotics offers him the opportunity of which he dreamed. And we let him think that such is America! No nation ever has voluntarily exposed herself to greater obstacles in the way of establishing uniform respect for her government. And yet these very obstacles can by America be made into opportunities. I sometimes wonder if any of these European countries, engaged now in speculating whether we can succeed or will fail in the task of enforcing the new and to them a revolutionary national policy of moral reform, could have maintained their governments, and the patriotic devotion of their citizens, if over their border poured every year hundreds of thousands of wandering foreigners who spoke different languages and whose experience with governmental authority had engendered only distrust and fear. How stirring it is to realize that in spite of these difficulties we have survived every crisis, and produced a people that, for intelligence, energy and patriotism, can be matched by none. The war proved that we were homogeneous, too, in one respect—devotion to America. In the face of such knowledge I refuse to believe that the Congress of these United States has passed, or will ever pass, a law that cannot be enforced! I refuse to entertain the view ' that in a single state there can long exist an officer, high or low, who will undermine the Constitution or the laws of his country by indifference or disregard. For I am confident there is a spiritual force back of this Union that challenges the faith and devotion of each citizen to its authoritative enactments. The American Prison Association Congress By Katherine Palm, Secretary Social Welfare League, Salt Lake City The Fifty-fourth annual Congress of the American Prison Association convened at the Hotel Utah, in Salt Lake City, August 15, 1924. The objects of the Association are as follows: 1, The improvement of laws in relation to offenses and offenders, and the modes of procedure by which such laws are enforced; 2. The study of the causes of crime, the nature of offenders, their social surroundings, the best methods of dealing with offenders and the best methods of crime prevention; 3. The improvement of penal institutions throughout the country, their government, management and discipline, including the appointment of boards of trustees and other officers; 4. The care of prisoners, the provision of suitable remunerative employment for discharged prisoners, especially such as have given evidence of conduct reformation. Various departmental discussions of the foregoing subjects were held both at the Hotel Utah and the Hotel Newhouse. The 'general meetings, open to the public, were held at the Hotel Utah in the ball-room.. From the opening address of President Charles H. Johnson to the final address of the new President, Dr. Frank Moore, one note was sounded repeatedly throughout this convention, This note was prevention—prevention of delinquency. Protection of youth from the crime habit sounded loudly throughout the various appeals of superintendents of institutions, psychiatrists, attorneys, professors, social-welfare specialists, domestic relation and juvenile court judges. Prevention by respect for authority echoed throughout the fervid address of Assistant Attorney-General, Mrs. Mabel Walker Willebrandt. Prevention through understanding by women of the needs of the youth of today thrilled in the appeal made by Mrs. Amy Brown Lyman, general Secretary of the National Woman's Relief Society. Mrs.. Lyman spoke for community appreciation and understanding of the rights of the youth of today. An audience of men and women AMERICAN PRISON ASSOCIATION CONGRESS 517 of national prominence followed appreciatively her outline, which had for its purpose the conservation, preservation, and the development of all of the possibilities of our youth—the citizens of tomorrow. She urged the removal of stumbling blocks from the path of little children that they might not be forced aside from the highway of right living; she emphasized the need of saving for them their mothers, who all too frequently die in child-birth; also, the importance of preventive medicine in all programs of child welfare. She commended the Sheppard-Towner Act, the Suffrage Amendment, and the Prohibition Amendment as forward looking measures in the protection of youth. The birthright of every child, she maintained, is opportunity for normal living, and when this is vouchsafed by society, social and moral conditions will materially improve. Community responsibiliyt for the education, training in work, and general health of its youth, both moral and physical, was best advanced through the presence of women in legislative bodies throughout the United States, she asserted; for women's real job is the improvement of our youth of today. Mrs, Willebrandt, who occupies the highest appointive position of any women in the United States, made two addresses while in the city—one at the Congress and the other at the University of Utah. She disclosed the reason why the United States had acquired the unenviable standing as the most lawless nation in the world. That reason is disrespect for law, and the slow and inadequate processes of justice in the courts of the country. Laws enacted only to be flouted; prosecutions, if successful, carry fines rather than jail sentences. Mrs. Willebrandt pleaded for sustaining of punishment, swift, certain, severe, as an effectual barrier against crime and criminals. She complained that there is no cohesion among the various forces organized for the protection of youth and for the upholding of authority. Her brilliant addresses were received with respect and appreciation, for at no time did her great ability as an attorney over-shadow her charm as a woman engaged in the highest task of upholding the constitution, a guarantee of protection to the youth of today. The part that heredity plays in the making of criminals was reviewed by Dr. Edgar King, U. S. Disciplinary Barracks, Fort Leavenworth, Kansas. He stated that while the majority of the men under his observation were military prisoners, he had had opportunities to study great numbers of civilian prisoners also, and had determined that eighty per cent of the men in Ft. Leavenworth became criminals from causes that had been inherited: feeblemindedness, defective nervous systems, epilepsy and paresis were the most easily recognized defects. Of the defects of this eighty Notes from the Field Amy Brown Lyman Conference of American Prison Association, Juvenile Agencies, and National Probation Association During the recent joint national conference of the American Prison Association, the National Juvenile Agencies, and National Probation Association, held in Salt Lake City, August 15 to 22, the Relief Society headquarters were flooded with visitors from the east and from the west, all eager to learn of the welfare work done by the Relief Society and by the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. The visitors were men and women of renown in the field of prison reform and probation work, and are devoting their lives to benefit humanity. They are all agreed that the most potent social work is preventive work and they were especially interested in the efforts being made by our Church to conserve family life, to promote health, and to supervise the leisure time activities of the youth. They also asked concerning family and individual rehabilitation work in the Church. As far as possible, details of the work of the Church itself and of the various auxiliaries were discussed and explained to the visitors, who were most interested in all they could learn of our people and institutions. Detroit Relief Saciety Visits Kirtland Temple Some very beautiful, interesting and unique souvenirs have just been received at the Relief Society office from Mrs, Lucy Wright Snow of Royal Oak, Michigan. These souvenirs are in the form of broad white ribbon badges, upon which are printed the words of the hymn, "The Spirit of God like a fire is burning." They were used by the members of the Detroit Relief Society in a recent trip to the Kirtland Temple where the Society was permitted to hold religious services. The excursion party consisted of forty-one Relief Society women who felt it a special blessing to be able to visit the historic Kirtland temple, where so many important events took place in the early days of the Church, and to hold a service within its walls which was probably the first L. D. S. Meeting held in the edifice since the Latterday Saints left Kirtland in 1838. After speaking of the very interesting meeting, Mrs. Snow writes: "I can assure you we sang the song enclosed, with enthusiasm and vigor, shouting the hosannas in very deed," — 520 ' RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Morgan Stake. Relief Society ward conferences were held in Morgan during April and May. The stake board outlined a suggestive program on "Service" which was carried out in every ward. The stake board members made their annual excursion to the Salt Lake temple on May 22. Eighty. Per cent of the members were in attendance. Dr. Richards and Mrs. Conover of the Bureau of Child Hygiene, — State Board of Health, were in Morgan county, July 14, 15 and 16, and with the assistance of the Relief Society, established health centers at Morgan and Devil Slide. Ninety children were examined and organizations effected at each place. New Zealand Mission. The Relief Societies in New Zealand are making excellent progress under the able leadership of Mrs. Martha J. Wright, who is assisted by able counselors, a secretary, and eight board members, all of whom are Maoris. Hese far-away workers are very much interested in the annual report of the Relief Society, which was published in the May issue of the Magazine, and have sent to the General Board an expression of appreciation for the work of the organization and for the privilege of being members thereof. According to President Wright, no other factor is more potent in the New Zealand Mission than the Relief Society. Gunnison Stake. Regular weekly meetings were held in the Gunnison stake wards during the months of July and August, where special lessons outlined by the stake board were used. The subjects discussed were: July—Modern Revelation Essential, Doctrine and NOTES FROM THE FIELD 521 Covenants—Nature and Purpose; Obedience. August—Word of Wisdom, Tithing, Sabbath Day. The last meeting in August consisted of a social devoted to enlistment. Preceding this meeting it was the plan to visit every home in the stake and to extend a special invitation to those not members to join the organization. Cassia Stake. A very interesting pageant known as the Mother's Day Pageant, was given by the Cassia stake Relief Society on Mother's Day. The pageant was given in the opera house and the cast consisted of between 65 and 70 people. On the 24th of July the pageant 'Come, come, ye Saints" was presented by the Cassia stake at the city park. Very successful ward conferences have been held throughout the stake during the last few months, with varied programs. During the summer, the stake board members have devoted their spare time to replenishing the burial and temple clothes department.. Pioneer Stake. At the quarterly conference of Pioneer stake held Sunday, August 3, 1924, Mrs. Caroline S. Hyde was released as counselor to President Mary A. Cutler of the stake Relief Society. Mrs. Hyde left Salt Lake, June 6, 1924, with her husband, President Charles H. Hyde, who has been called to preside over the Australian mission. Mrs. Hyde will have charge of the Relief Society work of this mission. This is the second mission of President and Mrs. Hyde to Australia, as they presided there thirteen years ago. Mrs. Hyde has always been a faithful and earnest worker and her 522 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE counsel and advice have been appreciated by all with whom she served. Prior to her departure, the stake board held a testimonial for her at the home of Mrs. Emily C. Willey. A very pleasant afternoon was spent, and as a token of their esteem, Mrs. Hyde was presented with a leather traveling bag. Tahitian Mission, In the Papeete branch of the Tahitian mission, there is to be found a very active up-to-date Relief Society. The weekly meetings are conducted under the direction of the missionaries with the following local presidency, shown in the accompanying picture: Terai a Tefanau, president (center); Taumatagi a Mariteragi, first counselor (right); Katupu Tehina a Turoa, second counselor (left). The regular Relief Society outlines are used as far as possible. The work meeting is a real feature of the organization. Here quilts are made and baskets and bags are woven, all of which are sold and the funds used for the benefit of the sick and those in need. REORGANIZATIONS Rigby Stake. On April 13 the Rigby stake Relief Society was reorganized. Mrs. Elizabeth Hart, who had resigned as president, and her coworkers were honorably released with grateful appreciation for their faithful service, and new officers were installed. The Rigby stake Relief Society board gave a banquet and testimonial in honor NOTES FROM THE FIELD  523 of the out-going president, counselors and board members, Wednesday evening, June 29, in the amusement hall of the stake tabernacle. About fifty guests were seated at the banquet table. After partaking of the sumptuous banquet an interesting program was rendered during which a sketch of the lives of President Elizabeth J. Hart and Counselor Mary E. Call was read by Delia Bramwell. Mrs. Hart and Mrs. Call have been connected with the Rigby stake Relief Society for many years. Mrs. Hart was chosen second counselor in 1914, and Mrs. Call chosen treasurer when the stake was first organized in 1908. Attention was called to the fact that although Mrs. Hart has served only six years as president of the Rigby stake Relief Society, much constructive work has been accomplished in that time, and she, with her officers and board members, have been faithful and untiring workers. Rigby stake covers a large territory with Roberts ward fourteen miles to the west, Melba twenty miles on the east, and Palisade sixty miles away, and therefore a great deal of time has been spent by the stake officers in traveling about. At the close of the program Mrs. Lettie E. Call in a well chosen speech, presented each of the following officers with a handsome piece of silverware: Elizabeth J. Hart, Mary E. Call, Hannah Hatch, Mary Crystal, Adelaide Westerberg, Della Groom, Martha Ballantyne and Mary A. Nelson. The new executive officers are as follows: President, Lettie E. Call; first counselor, Phoebe Cordon; second counselor, Cora C. Burton; secretary-treasurer, Stella F. Brossard.
To My Son and Daughter
By Claire Stewart Boyer
She has the world at her feet, my son, But you have the world in your hands; Fearfully silent she dreams and hopes, But you are the one who demands.
She gazes at life with a wondering eye, Scarcely daring to ask for its joy; You reap in the harvests that lie in your path And command life to give you much more.
You sweep through the ages the strength and the force, 'Tis your glory to get and to give,— But 'tis she, with her prayers and her dreams and her love, Who can tell you, my son, how to live.
The Widow's Girls
By Elizabeth Cannon Porter
"I don't see why we should spend the money for a dress when you may need it for medicine," said Virginia as she carried out her mother's malted milk glass.
"You'll have to get it. If you're going to 'carry on' you must be equipped for it. And while you're getting the gown, Virginia, get a good one. A cheap thing always shows what it is," she added petulantly.
Virginia gave another look at her limp messaline that she had been trying to "freshen." It had gone through this process so often that it was palpably in rags. So she glanced over the paper for sales and betook herself down town.
Mrs. Tracy lay ill. The gallant little widow had raised her three girls, Virginia, Marilyn and Dorothea, by teaching music. A southerner by birth, she had never seemed to have a struggle, because she emulated the appearance of affluence. She had received her pupils in black satin and point lace, and served luncheon to visitors in a rose embowered sun parlor. Even the shabby tapestries of the living room exuded an atmosphere of luxury. Poor they were, but with the gaiety of Montmartre. Perhaps it was her French grandmother, who made their life seem one of culture rather than a palpable sham. The placing of a picture, the arrangement of light, the open fire in the grate of a chilly night, the gloss on the old china, the garden setting of the house itself, attained the things that wealth itself brings.
On her husband's death she had been left the poorest in a family of self-centered people. Looking at her three plump little girls she had fiercely determined that they should have as good a chance as the children with fathers. Constant vigilance is the price of success with children. Their growth must be built on real things—good food, fresh air, proper medical attention, and education. She set out to wrest these from the world, and she had done well. She had accepted her relatives' cast-off clothes and had made them over for her children with such a deft touch that they looked better than the originals. She had cultivated the people who could help them. She had used so much tact that no one seeing this gracious middle-aged woman suspected the grim courage, underneath, that actuated her. Poverty is an insidious foe that daily collects its toll until it destroys. She had won. Her daughters, budding into womanhood, were just as beautiful, well-mannered, and intelligent as if they had been reared in homes of wealth.
THE WIDOW'S GIRLS 525
Then the mother was taken ill. The little home was like a ship without its captain. It caught them unawares; Virginia finishing business college, Marilyn studying millinery, Dorothea in high school.
"The way to help me," said Cora Tracey, propped up on her pillows, "is to help yourselves. Get on in the world, be somebody. That's what every parent wants of her children."
So Virginia had capitalized their knowledge of music. She and her younger sister had organized an orchestra and had gone around to the country district playing at the dances. The irrepressible Dorothea who had insisted on learning to play the saxophone, was now encouraged in it. Virginia played the piano and Marilyn the violin. Music had been the little mother's business and the girls had grown up with it. So, through the long-drawn-out illness, they had kept things going.
They were to make their city debut that night in late summer at the ball of the Arnolds. The Tracy girls' orchestra had been asked to play. It humiliated the mother that her girls should go as paid musicians to a place where they should have gone as invited guests. She wanted them to make a good appearance.
The new gown was apricot taffeta, but the extravagance of it spoiled it for Virginia as she donned it that night, though it transformed her like Cinderella. It matched well Marilyn's old gold and Dorothea's canary. The sick woman heaved a contented sigh when she saw them depart with their instruments.
The Arnold's was impressive with flags and potted palms. Even the ices and candies carried out the artistic color scheme. The night was hot but the youthful musicians kept indefatigably at their task. Ralph Dane drifted by with his partners but usually stopped in the vicinity of the musician's stand, finally he stayed there altogether and turned the music for Virginia. He looked down with ardent eyes on the brown coronet of her hair, the curve of her throat, the slim, firm arms that thumped the piano.
When Virginia took a glass of water in to her mother that night she said shyly. "Ralph Dane invited me to go out with him to inspect his father's mills."
"He's a nice boy," approved her mother. "Oh, Virginia, if you will just get on yourselves and be somebody in the world, I will feel repaid for everything," she said with a sigh.
Grandma—Poor Soul
By Clara A. Fagergren
Outwardly calm, though inwardly fuming, Marthy Henderson busied herself with the washing. Something she had heard unexpectedly that morning had vexed her clear through. And that was unusual. For she was slow to anger.
The conversation she had accidentally overheard between Miranda, her daughter-in-law, complacently rocking on the shady porch, and a woman in the next yard, had taken place while Marthy had hurried upstairs to change sheets on the bed in the spare-room, therefore she could not help hearing every word through the open window.
Miranda, sure of the "old woman" being busy in the basement, spoke rather loudly: "Yes, she's getting queerer every day. I actually believe she hates having the children around. You don't know what I have to put up with! Of course, poor soul, she's Henry's mother, and therefore I try to do all I can for her, but I tell the world it's mighty trying at times!"
"I should think she'd appreciate a good home and her keep and everything," the woman answered. "She needn't worry over expenses. You give her more than what most old people get. It surely is hard to please them when they get old and cranky."
Miranda, not a little pleased with the sympathy she received, drawled: "That's just the very thing I've been telling Henry. She ought to be satisfied and thankful she's treated as well as she is. Only last week I paid out a dollar for her cough medicine; and the way she wears out aprons and goes through shoes is scandalous."
Marthy flounced downstairs, not wishing to hear more. Her first impulse was to face Miranda and speak her mind to the brazen thing. Keeping her out of charity! Indeed! She hated having the children around, did she? Who was it waited on them with bread and butter, and tied up their fingers, and gave them their bath Saturday nights? Who, if not their grandma! Money was squandered on cough medicine, was it? How did she get that cough if not when running around nights in the draft fixing flannels for the baby when she had the croup! And she was begrudged shoes and aprons! Could she help her shoes wearing out when she was eternally on her feet? There was seldom time to sit down for a look at the paper, even. And aprons! Rubbing against the sink three times daily surely was hard on aprons, and on her back, too. Besides, she was getting queer. Not so queer, however, that she was not able to struggle
528 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
her errand briefly and to the point. The visit must have pleased them both, for Anna walked with the older woman to the gate, and Marthy hurried home, satisfaction and determination in her eye.
It was rather late when Miranda finally returned. With her was Henry. She had, to his annoyance, stopped in and waited for him at his office. And afterwards she had lingered in front of store windows admiring the fashions. Miranda kept up with the times.
Coming through the door was grandma in her best dress, a suitcase in her hand. A glance in the dining-room showed a bare table; nor was there a sign of supper cooking. Grandma, poor soul, was getting more feeble and absent-minded every day.
Marthy, a bright spot on either cheek, announced crisply: "I've made arrangements to go and live with Anna Dillham. I won't need to work harder for her than I work for you, and she's willing to pay me five dollars a week."
Henry's mouth flew open like a flytrap. Miranda clicked twice with her tongue before being able to speak, but when finally her vocal cords got loosened her talk flowed on like unchecked lava.
"You're not going to disgrace us all," she stormed. "What will people say? There will be some talk when it's found out that Henry Henderson's mother is working out for a living! Is this the thanks we get for giving you a home all these years?"
"I have nothing to thank you for," Marthy snapped, her eyes blazing. "It's you that owes me gratitude. I've done the work here of a hired woman besides tending the children in sickness and waiting on you when you've had your babies, thereby saving you the price of a nurse. Don't pretend you're giving me charity. I heard your remarks this morning. I'm not the kind of a woman who will be a burden to anyone, not even to my own children."
A guilty look crept over Miranda's face and she hastily slipped out of the room on pretext of seeing to the fire. Henry forced his mother to a seat beside him on the sofa. He cleared his throat noisily.
"I must have been blind to conditions existing here," he blurted. "Now, mother, don't judge our thoughtlessness too harshly. Change your mind about leaving our home; we need you. We don't want you to kill yourself working. I admit we have gotten into the habit of taking too much for granted; people make mistakes, you know. Be reasonable, and give us one more trial," he pleaded, genuine sorrow in his voice.
Marthy spoke tremulously, trying hard to keep the tears out of her eyes, her throat aching in her efforts to control her pent-up emotions. After all, she had nothing against Henry; he had always been a fine boy, although his wife did not realize that there were few like him. And she dearly loved his children. In them
GRANDMA—POOR SOUL! 529
she was constantly reminded of her own brood when they were little.
"I'll stay this time but I want it understood, I'm no charity case. Foolishly I disposed of my home and gave you children my money. Common sense would tell you I sometimes need a few dollars for clothes and little things that I can't very well beg you for. After all, I have some pride."
Henry's hand dug deep into his pocket and he pressed some bills in his mother's hand. "Do as I ask you, just this once," he begged. "You'll have time to make Thomas' store before they close, if you hurry. There get yourself a pretty dress, and wear it home as a sign you'll think no more of this affair. I'll explain to Mrs. Dillham."
After all Marthy was only a woman and a mother. How could she refuse the sincere plea of her son. More to please him than thinking of her own grievances she hurried off.
As she disappeared down the street Henry stepped into the kitchen and held a hurried consultation with Miranda. Though not fully sharing his enthusiasm she readily agreed with his plans. The children were speedily rounded up and sent scurrying with mysterious messages to friends and relatives. At the telephone Henry barked incessantly for twenty minutes, giving orders to bewildered storekeepers on the point of closing, and summoning people who lived a distance from town.
At twenty-five minutes past seven, to be exact, Marthy Henderson returned home, dressed very becomingly in a soft, blue foullard, with little sprigs of white daisies in the pattern. She wore a new hat, and on her hands were shiny gloves, while comfortable stylish oxfords were on her rather small feet. She felt well because she knew she looked well. She was puzzled on seeing a line of automobiles in front of the house. Perhaps one of the children had met with an accident during her absence! Something always went wrong when she was not watching. Consternation and fear in her heart she hurried in.
A mighty shout of "surprise" greeted her. The house was jam full of people. Old friends who had danced at her wedding crowded round her joyously, working her arm like a pumphandle. Her sons and daughters and sons-in-law and daughters-in-law were all present to do honor to the occasion. Little ones, mostly her own grandchildren, spouted from stairs and doorways, and toddled to her eagerly with outstretched, fat arms, their round faces held up to be kissed. Through an open door Marthy caught a glimpse of Miranda frenziedly busy setting the table and arranging flowers. Well perhaps—in these days of extravagant and frivolous women—Henry might have done worse. With all her faults and failings
530 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
Miranda was not the one to waste money, anyway. Marthy softened in her attitude towards Henry's wife.
Soon an impromptu orchestra tuned up, and the floor was cleared for dancing. In the kitchen a babel of chattering women clattered dishes and mixed potato salad.
"Lan' sakes, Miranda, ain't it nice of you and your husband to get up this fine party for the old lady. It ain't often people will go to so much trouble," Mrs. Cornpill shrilled, peering closely through steel rimmed spectacles while frosting cake.
Perspiring over a huge pan of hot chocolate Miranda admitted: "Yes, grandma is getting quite independent, but we can't get along without her."
Henry, turning the ice cream freezer remarked dryly. "This feast is given by the prodigal son for his mother who nearly became a wanderer among strangers."
The grinding of the freezer and the din in the room made his words unintelligible to all except Mrs. Cornpill who thought he said, "mother is frightened among strangers," and she forthwith made her way to the living-room, determined to take timid old grandma under the protection of her wing.
On the threshold she stopped, however, quickly deciding Marthy could manage very well without her assistance. Marthy, her beautiful white hair curling in tiny ringlets around her flushed face, had just finished dancing her third quadrille with Ezra Fairweather. She was fully aware that Abe Jones was trying his level best to attract her attention. Both men were seventy, wealthy, and widowers. They hated one another as only two men can hate when they are trying to win the favor of the same woman.
Abe decided to use strategy. He had learned war tactics while fighting Indians in his younger days. He waited until the enemy was exhausted, then he marched boldly to the front and captured the prize. Straightening his white bow tie with the embroidered ends, which he had not worn since his wife's funeral, he steered Marthy through the crowd for a walk in the moonlit garden. Ezra, shooting pains running up his legs and feet sore from too much prancing on the dance floor, glared after them angrily, for he knew Abe lived alone in his fine home, and he would be sure to take the opportunity of offering himself and his house to the capable and good-looking Marthy.
What Shall we Have for Dinner?
When you make your purchases for the dinner table you are buying either health or sickness for the family. That is an oppressive thought to carry on the mind, but it is one nevertheless that cannot be lightened nor shifted from the housewife to others. By means of food, we must remember, the various elements of the body are sustained. Each element must be given not too little, nor yet too much, but just enough, to keep its fine balance with all the other constituents of the body.
Just what are foods, and just what kind and quantities of food are necessary each day, any good book on foods will tell you. The point here is, that careful consideration must be given this subject if the members of our family are to keep in good health.
The importance of what goes into the mouth has been given increasing attention these last few years. Infant mortality has been greatly reduced since clinics have been established where our babies can be measured and weighed and the quantity and kind of food they should be given are prescribed. In the same way can the bodily and mental ills that adult flesh is heir to, be reduced.
We have been told hereabouts lately that the reason so many people have goitre is that the water we drink is deficient in iodine. Since those who live in this part of the west get too little of this element, the way to prevent goitre therefore, if this theory be true, is to take into the system such foods as will furnish the necessary amount of iodine.
At all events we must eat only such things, and in such quantities, as will maintain the various elements that go to make up the body. And the burden of this greatest of all material tasks rests on the shoulders of the one who plans the menus for the family. And a tremendous burden it is! She cannot shift it to the shoulders of others. Others, it is true, may prepare menus, but they may not suit her. The articles may not be in the market, or they may cost too much, or the family may not like them, or there may be leftovers to serve. Nevertheless, the dinner table must have food on it when the family are asked to "draw their chairs up."
For we cannot live without food, even if it were not pleasant to eat, nor can we live in the healthful state without the proper kinds and quantities. "By indiscreet choice, precious days of life may be lost on account of headache or other acute, though minor ills, and by continued bad feeding the way paved of serious impairment of health."
So there you have staring you in the face the constantly recurring question, "What shall we have for dinner?
Guide Lessons for December
LESSON I
Theology and Testimony (First Week in December)
THE PARABLES OF THE SAVIOR (CONTINUED)
The three parables treated in this lesson unite in striking at the sin of selfishness.
The Parable of the Pharisee and the Publican. Luke 18: 9-14,
"Two men went up into the temple to pray; the one a Pharisee, and the other a Publican.
"The Pharisee stood and prayed thus with himself, God, I thank Thee, that I am not as other men are, extortioners, unjust, adulterers, or even as this Publican.
"I fast twice in the week, I give tithes of all that I possess.
"And the publican, standing afar off, would not lift up so much as his eyes unto heaven, but smote upon his breast, saying, God be merciful to me a sinner.
"I tell you, this man went down to his house justified rather than the other: for everyone that exalteth himself shall be abased; and he that humbleth himself shall be exalted."
Setting: A special privileged place of prayer for the Israelites who lived near the temple. The hour of prayer: a time when all Israel prayed and when those afar off turned their faces toward the temple.
Comments: The two characters of this parable are present on an equal footing, so far as privilege is concerned. They both exhibit aloofness from the crowd; but their prayers were strikingly different, and in this the difference of the men was made manifest. From their utterances it was evident that the aloofness of the Pharisee, as he stood up by himself, had behind it an egotistic estimate of himself accompanied by its ever existing complement, disdain of others. The Pharisee paraded his pomposity where humility alone should have dared to tread. In his showing off, he displays self-conceit which, however satisfying to the individual, is always offensive to society and disapproved of God. His aloofness was that of the egotist.
The aloofness of the publican, for he stood afar off, was
GUIDE LESSONS FOR DECEMBER 533
prompted by a sense of propriety and a consciousness of self-insufficiency. He was a sinner, knew it, confessed it, and was on the way to becoming a saint. The Pharisee was a sinner, too, knew it, would not confess it, and was on the path of pride that goeth before a fall.
The declaration of Jesus as to the religious quality of the two men is strikingly representative of the truth that he who is righteous in his own conceit, there is more hope of a sinner than of him. There is a vast difference between being righteous in one's own conscience and in being righteous in one's own conceit; one is hypocrisy, the other is honesty.
The immediate purpose of this parable was, no doubt, emphatically to denounce the religious pomposity of the Pharisee, and to approve of the relative sincerity and toleration of the publican. The parable reached down the ages and will reach on to eternity with the mighty lesson that "he who exalteth himself shall be abased, and he that humbleth himself shall be exalted."
People unconsciously play the Pharisee in many ways: neighbors exulting in a fancied superiority, and parents priding themselves on having been so much better than are their children. Usually this self-exaltation ends in a finding-out that reveals the sand-pile foundation of the brag-castles. There is, however, a commendable, consistent kind of self-recommendation such as the Master himself made use of: "I am the life and the light of the world, follow me."
The Pharisaical tendency seems to have a radical root based on some universal human trait; the undesirability of which is laid bare in this parable. In Papini's Life of Christ we find the following: "Sinners, when they recognize the evil which is in their hearts and abjure it with true humility, are nearer to the Kingdom than pious men who daub themselves with the praise of their own piety."
The Parable of the Rich Fool. Luke 12: 16-21,
This parable denounces the delusion of self-security.
"And he spake a parable unto them, saying, The ground of a certain rich man brought forth plentifully:
"And he thought within himself, saying, What shall I do, because I have no room where to bestow my fruits?
"And he said, This I will do: I will pull down my barns, and build greater; and there will I bestow all my fruits and my goods.
"And I will say to my soul, Soul, thou hast much goods laid up for many years; take thine ease, eat, drink, and be merry.
"But God said unto him, Thou fool, this night thy soul shall
GUIDE LESSONS FOR DECEMBER 535
"There was a certain rich man, which was clothed in purple and fine linen, and fared sumptuously every day:
"And there was a certain beggar named Lazarus, which was laid at his gate, full of sores,
"And desiring to be fed with the crumbs which fell from the rich man's table: moreover the dogs came and licked his sores.
"And it came to pass, that the beggar died, and was carried by the angels into Abraham's bosom: the rich man also died, and was buried;
"And in hell he lifted up his eyes, being in torments, and seeth Abraham afar off, and Lazarus in his bosom.
"And he cried and said, Father Abraham, have mercy on me, and send Lazarus, that he may dip the tip of his fingers in water, and cool my tongue; for I am tormented in this flame.
"But Abraham said, Son, remember that thou in thy lifetime receivedst thy good things, and likewise Lazarus evil things: but now he is comforted, and thou art tormented.
"And beside all this, between us and you there is a great gulf fixed: so that they which would pass from hence to you cannot; neither can they pass to us, that would come from thence.
"Then he said, I pray thee therefore, father, that thou wouldest send him to my father's house:
"For I have five brethren; that he may testify unto them, lest they also come into this place of torment.
"Abraham saith unto him, They have Moses and the prophets; let them hear them.
"And he said, Nay, father Abraham: but if one went unto them from the dead, they will repent.
"And he said unto him, If they hear not Moses and the prophets, neither will they be persuaded, though one rose from the dead."
Comments: Evidently this parable was presented to a mixed multitude. It was especially directed to the unphilanthropic rich of the day, and taught the lesson to all for all time that greed and godliness are so opposed to each other that there never can be a place in heaven for anyone who grasps the good things of this world and holds them with a hand of selfishness.
Here was the rich man who lived to dress and eat and parade his power; a Judean Epicurean living only for the hour; with haughty head and icy heart and grasping hand, he led his life of luxury. There was the beggar, not an indolent street lounger, but an unfortunate cripple who could not walk, "which was laid at his gate full of sores." His destitution and helplessness furnished a condition by which the heart of the rich man could become an icicle or a fountain of love.
536 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
The rich man developed pride and the beggar developed patience; one grew in greediness and the other grew in gratitude; and thus the gulf widened into a chasm over which angels cannot ever bear messages. The great laws of compensation and the eternal fitness of things make impossible even a miracle that would transport a "greedist" from the climate of habitual cold heartedness to that of a kingdom of kindness, "in the twinkling of an eye." The trail of experience must be climbed, the neglectful rich shall feel the pinch of spiritual poverty, and the gluttonous wealthy shall sense the pangs of spiritual hunger.
Angels carried Lazarus into the bosom of Abraham. What is the bosom of Abraham? It is no doubt the approval of God; but it is also the consciousness of a condition that would make the society of the generous Patriarch enjoyable.
The rich man died and lifted up his eyes in hell. This was no doubt the disfavor of God, and was it not, too, a realization of the total absence of the sources of selfish gratification? Nothing of his wealth could follow this rich man, and he had sent nothing of it before him. Treasures of heaven he had none. Habituated to plenty, he found himself in poverty, spoiled with sycophant praise he found himself in the midst of censure.
What is the impassable gulf? Whatever else the gulf may be, it is character-difference. The patient, grateful, humble character of Lazarus could neither go nor be taken to a place of spiritual discomfort; for these qualities of soul are the very essence of spiritual comfort. The greedy, unappreciative, haughty character of the rich man could never make way to the place of Abrahamic comfort because these selfish characteristics are incompatible with soul happiness.
Was not the hell also the quickened consciousness of guilt in the form of neglect—a going wrong by leaving the right undone? This miserable poor rich man looked up out of his torment and then began to climb up. When his heart went out for the safety of his brothers he gave evidence of coming out of the cell of selfishness, and when he made a stronger plea for his brothers than he had made for himself he showed real Christian courage. In his argument with Abraham his head was wrong but his heart was right. He could feel for his brothers, they were almost a part of him, but he could not understand that special service must precede special consideration. Lazarus, the once neglected beggar, is now recognized as a source of much needed help. "Send Lazarus," the rich man called, when he begged to have his parched lips moistened. "Send Lazarus," he cried, when he wanted his brother warned. His petition for his own relief was answered by citing him to the
GUIDE LESSONS FOR DECEMBER 537
provisions of the great law of compensation. Had he sympathized with Lazarus and given the beggar relief, the rich man would have been sharing the beggar's afflictions, and been entitled to gracious consideration. His first plea for the sending of Lazarus to warn his brothers was answered by a suggestion that they give heed to the messengers already sent, and his final appeal was met with a declaration in effect that those who will not be guided by the regularly revealed word of the Lord would not be guided by the words of a special messenger.
QUESTIONS AND PROBLEMS
1. Discuss this proposition: The publican prayed; the Pharisee said his prayer.
2. Why was the parable of the Pharisee and the publican a better way to strike at the self-conceit of the Pharisees than the direct denunciation made to his disciples and recorded in Luke 12: 1?
3. Explain the difference between the aloofness of the Pharisee and that of the publican.
4. Give an illustration of commendable self-recommendation.
5. What sin is especially denounced by the parable of the rich fool?
6. Discuss the proposition: Ease without anxiety is like heaven without helpfulness.
7. In what way is an accounting demanded of each of us every night?
8. Show that Jesus taught by the parable of Lazarus and the rich man what he has proclaimed to us through Joseph Smith. See Doctrine and Covenants, 56: 16.
9. What does the bosom of Abraham, spoken of in the parable, mean to you?
10. What is the impassable gulf spoken of in the parable?
11. How could the rich man of the parable have sent some of his wealth before him into the world of spirits?
12. What would happen to heaven if greed were permitted to get there?
LESSON II (Second Week in December) Work AND BUSINESS
538 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
LESSON III (Third Week in December) Literature
EDGAR ALLEN POE
When we turn our attention to Edgar Allen Poe we are devoting ourselves to a poet of a very different class to the poets of the New England group. We confidently look for a moral in the poems of Longfellow, Lowell, and Whittier; and the themes of Nathanel Hawthorne's stories, whether long or short, have to do with moral attitudes. Edgar Allen Poe did not interest himself in this direction; beauty was for him and with him the outstanding consideration. A beautiful conception couched in beautiful language was to him the acme of artistic achievement in literature. Not many Americans agreed with his formula at the time he wrote, but there were people across the sea who gave his ideas whole-souled approval. The French people endeavoring to name the world's three most gifted individuals named Plato, Montaigne, and Edgar Allen Poe. This summer we listened to a professor from the University of California who had recently been a student of literature in the University of Paris. He stated that on the walls of the class room of the professor was found a portrait of one American poet and that poet was Edgar Allen Poe.
GUIDE LESSONS FOR DECEMBER 539
It is not difficult to realize why the French love Poe. They are the artists of the world. Whatever will conduce to loveliness of form, to beauty in color or tone, makes marvelous appeal to them; consequently Edgar Allen Poe's extraordinary power in the choice of words was sure to bring to him an unusual amount of praise from them.
Edgar Allen Poe's philosophy might be stated something in this wise: He said, as a poet, "I should write about the most beautiful thing in all the world." And then he put the question, what is the most beautiful thing in all the world? And concluded that a beautiful woman was the most beautiful of all God's creations, one who has passed into the spiritual world and is numbered with the angels, is even more beautiful than a living woman. This may seem a strange philosophy to us, but the 19th century was peculiarly sentimental over the death of a beautiful woman; consequently, even Poe was reflecting the feeling of his own age.
There is one observation in relation to this matter that we should not miss. In our early literature, men did not admire women for their beautiful soul qualities but rather for their physical beauty. One of the first stories in British literature, the story of King Arthur and Queen Guinevere, is a tale that elaborates a good deal on the physical beauty of the queen but is nevertheless a tale of guilty love. So from one point of view we should appreciate Edgar Allen Poe, for in appreciating the beauty of a woman who has gone to the spirit-world, he is placing emphasis on spiritual rather than physical beauty.
This philosophy will explain such poems as Annabel Lee and The Raven. We include Annabel Lee because it is typical of his philosophy, and quote a few stanzas from The Raven that carry something of the same thought.
ANNABEL LEE
It was many and many a year ago, In a kingdom by the sea, That a maiden there lived whom you may know By the name of Annabel Lee; And this maiden she lived with no other thought Than to love and be loved by me.
I was a child and she was a child, In this kingdom by the sea, But we loved with a love that was more than love— I and my Annabel Lee— With a love that the winged seraphs of heaven Coveted her and me.
And this was the reason that, long ago, In this kingdom by the sea, A wind blew out of a cloud, chilling My beautiful Annabel Lee;
540 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
So that her highborn kinsmen came And bore her away from me, To shut her up in a sepulchre In this kingdom by the sea.
The angels, not half so happy in heaven, Went envying her and me— Yes!—that was the reason (as all men know, In this kingdom by the sea) That the wind came out of the cloud by night, Chilling and killing my Annabel Lee.
But our love it was stronger by far than the love Of those who were older than we— Of many far wiser than we— And neither the angels in heaven above, Nor the demons down under the sea, Can ever dissever my soul from the soul Of the beautiful Annabel Lee:
For the moon never beams, without bringing me dreams Of the beautiful Annabel Lee; And the stars never rise, but I feel the bright eyes Of the beautiful Annabel Lee: And so, all the night-tide, I lie down by the side Of my darling—my darling—my life and my bride, In the sepulchre there by the sea— In her tomb by the sounding sea.
THE RAVEN
Much I marvelled this ungainly fowl to hear discourse so plainly, Though its answer little meaning—little relevancy bore; For we cannot help agreeing that no living human being Ever yet was blessed with seeing bird above his chamber door— Bird or beast upon the sculptured bust above his chamber door, With such name as "Nevermore."
But the Raven, sitting lonely on the placid bust, spoke only That one word, as if his soul in that one word he did outpour. Nothing further then he uttered—not a feather then he fluttered— Till I scarcely more than muttered, "Other friends have flown before— On the morrow he will leave me, as my hopes have flown before." Then the bird said, "Nevermore."
Startled at the stillness broken by reply so aptly spoken, "Doubtless," said I, "what it utters is its only stock and store Caught from some unhappy master. Whom unmerciful disaster Followed fast and followed faster till his songs one burden bore— Till the dirges of his Hope that melancholy burden bore Of 'Never—nevermore'."
But the Raven still beguiling all my fancy into smiling, Straight I wheeled a cushioned seat in front of bird, and bust and door; Then, upon the velvet sinking, I betook myself to linking Fancy unto fancy, thinking what this ominous bird of yore— What this grim, ungainly, ghastly, gaunt, and ominous bird of yore— Meant in croaking "Nevermore."
GUIDE LESSONS FOR DECEMBER 541
Thus I sat engaged in guessing, but no syllable expressing To the fowl whose fiery eyes now burned into my bosom's core; This and more I sat divining, with my head at ease reclining On the cushion's velvet lining that the lamplight gloated oer, But whose velvet violet lining with the lamplight gloating o'er, She shall press, ah, nevermore!
Then, methought, the air grew denser, perfumed from an unseen censer Swung by Seraphim whose foot-falls tinkled on the tufted floor. "Wretch," I cried, "thy God hath lent thee—by these angels he hath sent thee Respite—respite and nepenthe from thy memories of Lenore; Quaff, oh quaff this kind nepenthe and forget this lost Lenore!" Quoth the Raven, "Nevermore."
Another very important side of Poe's realization of the beautiful in art is found in his selection of words in his middle rhymes and all that combines to produce very unusual and most extraordinary verse from the standpoint of music. Poe instinctively selected musical words but if he could not find a word in the language musical enough to suit his refined ear, he would coin a word to suit the case at hand. Examples of his choice in words and the rhythm can be found in such lines as: "And the silken, sad, uncertain rustling of each purple curtain, Thrilled me—filled me with fantastic terrors never felt before."; "For the moon never beams without bringing me dreams, Of the beautiful Annabel Lee."; "Hear the sledges with the bells—Silver bells! What a world of merriment their melody foretells! How they tinkle, tinkle, tinkle, In the icy air of night! While the stars that overgone All the heavens, seem to twinkle With a crystalline delight." There is much of color and much of tone in the examples given in the line, "And the silken, sad, uncertain rustling of each purple curtain." We have both 'music and color and the other lines quote very much music. Few poets have ever been able s* to combine language that it produced as much real music as we find in the poems of Edgar Allen Poe. Edgar Allen Poe wrote our first detective stories, and was a medium through which many people obtained peculiar and haunting physical thrills. This type of literature seems always popular. The mystery play of today caters to the same trait in human nature as Edgar Allen Poe's stories catered to. Such plays as The Bat, The Cat and the Canary, and The Thirteenth Chair all aim at producing situations that will cause intense physical and mental excitement, thereby producing what the modern pleases to call thrills. If you are unacquainted with Poe and wish to put this matter to the test, read The Fall of the House of Usher, The Pit and the 542. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Pendulum, The Black Cat, Murders in the Rue Morgue, and The Gold Bug, and see if the mental stimulation and physical reaction is not similar to that produced by the modern mystery play. Questions and Problems 1. Go to some manual on American Literature, or the encyclopedia and find a few biographical notes, on Edgar Allen Poe, and give them to the class.  2. Select the middle rhymes to be found in Annabel Lee. 3. If the time will permit have some one read The Raven to the class. While it is being read listen to the music of the words and the music of the verse. 4. Select from The Raven twelve of the most musical words used in the poem.. 5. Is the weird feeling so much a part of Poe's stories as a part of The Raven? 6. Which class of poetry do you prefer, the class that is written to express moral ideas, or the class that is created for the purpose of representing and expressing beauty? LESSON IV Social Service (Fourth Week in December) PROBLEMS OF INCOME A measure of economic security is essential to satisfactory family development. The burden and worry of debts may be the cause of much unpleasantness and unhappiness. Financial insecurity, too, may deprive the members of a family of certain needs —sufficient food, clothing, health care, education, etc. Economic security is dependent on two factors: first, the nature and the amount of the income, and second, the manner in which the income is spent. This discussion will deal with some of the problems of income and the subject of the next lesson will be family budgets and expenditures. It is impossible to state in actual figures what the income for a family of a certain number should be. The amount necessary to maintain a family varies with the ages, the state of health, the educational standards of the group, and on the living costs in different neiyhborhoods, localities, and in different seasons of the year. To determine, then, what income is needed to maintain a GUIDE LESSONS FOR DECEMBER 543 family, it is necessary to study its standard of living; that is, to determine what things all of the members of the group hold to be essential to their well-being and for which they are willing to sacrifice. If there is a discrepancy between the available income and the proposed budget, either the income must be increased or the expenditures curtailed. If an increase in income seems to be necessary to maintain a family properly, it may be that the man, who usually provides the family income, can be placed in a better position. It is possible that he is not suited to his work and is, consequently, not advancing financially as his family responsibilities increase. Or, it may be that the nature of his occupation makes regular employment difficult. He may prosper certain years or certain seasons but at other periods find himself financially distressed. A family whose. Income is based on seasonal occupations must necessarily plan more carefully than one whose income is fixed and regular. But even with the regular income of a man suitably employed, a family's needs may be greater than the man's earnings. The pressure of an inadequate income, together with increasing vocational opportunities, have made many a woman seek a place in the industrial world. It is difficult to decide just how completely a woman's activities should be restricted to the home. Many women succeed very satisfactorily in rearing a family and, at the same time, pursuing some study, or career, or occupation. There is, however a great need of social protest, if family life is made to suffer because of women's activities outside the home. This protest should be especially strong, if it is the lack of an income that forces a mother to shoulder the double load of supporting the family and managing her home. To place children in industry in order to supplement an inadequate income is now looked upon with disfavor. It is obviously poor economy to sacrifice health, education, and normal development of children merely to add their pittance to the family budget. Although there still are children who are placed in factories and shops and in the fields before they are physically able to perform such labor, and although many children are taken from the schoolroom with only the most rudimentary training, the prevailing public sentiment is to prohibit child labor and to extend the period of required school attendance. _ In some of the manufacturing centers, certain types of handwork that can be done away from the factories are taken home by the employees. This home work is difficult for labor inspectors to supervise and consequently many women and_ children are engaged in this uncontrolled occupation. The work is usually tedious and poorly paid, but is frequently resorted to as a possible means of adding a few dollars to a meagre income, With a growing realization that thrusting women and children 544. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE into industry carries with it grave social dangers, has come to more general understanding that the community has a responsibility to care for families who are deprived of a normal income. Under some circumstances it is sound social economy for the state, or church, or private agencies to assist certain families, perhaps even for a long period of time. When such assistance is deemed necessary and wise, it should be based on a carefully thought-out plan, and should be adequate to meet the needs and standards of the family. Ref. Normal Life, Edward T. Divine, pages 111-116. — QUESTIONS AND PROBLEMS 1. Under what circumstances piety a family be deprived of its normal income? 2. Why is an inadequate income demoralizing to a family? 3. What type of employment is undesirable for women? 4, What might a woman do to add to the income without neglecting her family? 5. What are the chief dangers of having a child enter employment too early? 6. Why should some children have opportunity to attend school longer than others? Teachers' Topic for December LOVE "To love abundantly i is to live abundantly, and to love forever is to live forever." "Charity is the true love of Christ." Moroni 7:47. Read and discuss chapter referred to in Book of Mormon; also I Corinthians, chapter 13. Callaways The greatest gift and Dinnerware Store in the West. You are most cordially invited to visit us—no urging to buy— come in and see the. Wonderful display of. Attractive articles for Christmas Gifts Immediately following the Saturday afternoon Conference 'we will give FREE Souvenirs to all our lady friends who visit our store. When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine All Up-To-Date Libraries Both Public and Private Contain Bound Volumes of the Relief Society Magazine Following are the bound volumes we have on hand: 5 vols. 1915, leather bound..... $3.50 2 vols. 1916, leather bound.... At ae 3.50 2 vols. 1916, cloth bound 25 5 vols. 1917, leather bound...  3.50 3 vols. 1918, leather bound......3.50 1 vol. 1919, cloth bound.. 2.75 5 vols. 1919, leather bound)... 3.50 10 vols. 1920, leather bound... 3.50 7 vols. 1921, leather bound...  3.50 6 vols. 1922, cloth bound. 5 vols. 1922, leather bound... 3.50 l5e extra for postage All orders should be addressed to the Relief Society Magazine, Room 20 Bishop's Bldg., Salt Lake City, Utah. The management of the Relief Society Magazine requests, that whenever possible, remit by Post Office order in payment for subscriptions. 4 To Our Patrons and Friends To insure prompt attention to subscriptions and any other business connected with the Relief Society Magazine Manager's office, please address plainly all communications to Room 20, Bishop's Building. A new order has been issued from the Post Office department saying, "That no mail matter will be delivered unless the proper address is given." By complying with Post Office regulations you may be fully assured that your communications will be well taken care of, otherwise where the proper address is not given mail matter will be returned to the sender. | Sample: (Address) Relief Soeiety Magazine, Room 20, Bishop's Bldg., Salt Lake City, Utah. Compare the Pages of Che Deseret News with those of any other paper. Notice that while the paper is clean and fit for any child to read it is also interesting and informative in the highest sense—And you get "TODAY'S NEWS TODAY" RECOMMENDED BY PATRONS. REFERENCES FURNISHED Made especially for L. D. S. Churches, and successfully used in Utah and Intermountain region, also in all Missions in the United States, Europe, and Pacific Islands. Basic metal, Nickel Silver, heavily plated with Solid Silver. SIMPLE, SANITARY,' DURABLE Satisfaction guaranteed Inquiries cheerfully answered THE LATEST ACKNOWLEDGMENT Bishop's Office, Bern, Idaho, May 2, 1921. "TI am in receipt of the Individual Sacrament Set, consisting of four trays and the proper number of glasses.: "Everything arrived in good condition. We are very pleased with it. I take this occasion to thank you for your kindness." BUREAU OF INFORMATION Temple Block Salt Lake City Glazier and Taylor HOSIERY COMPANY 33 EAST BROADWAY A Store Dealing in Quality Hostery and Underwear Exclusively Heavy Silk Fuil-Fashioned, all colors A wonderful hose for wear Per Pair $2.00 Box of Three Pairs $5.75 Silk Semi-Fashioned, all colors, beautiful and durable Per Pair $1.50 Box of Three Pairs.. $4.25 Silk with Extra Stretch Elastic Top, the Comfort Stocking Fer Pair $1.50 Box of Three Pairs $4.25 Pure Silk, Semi-Fashioned, very durable All Colors Per Pair $1.00 Box of Three Pairs $2.85 MAIL ORDERS PREPAID By Mrs. J. Long, \ A Book of 'Poems "The Beautiful Valley of Utah"  50c per copy. Eureka, Utah, Box 129. When ordering mention Relief Society Magazine.; Sheets of Fine Whiting Paper (Not more than 3 lines). 281—24th Street 100 Ess $1.50 Delivered postpaid to your home. Printed with your name and address in fine blue plate Gothic. Send Money with order. Write plainly. Universal Stationery Supply Co. OGDEN, UTAH  For a good moment or two, nothing can equal Pierce's Pork and Beans. How Daddy and the Children will enjoy this appetizing and nourishing  BEANS AUSONTE 2 ounces dish. Delicious beans and a generous portion of pork for flavor. Everlastingly Backed by THE UTAH CANNING COMPANY OGDEN, UTAH hearty meal prepared in a  No Difference Between Refined Beet and Refined Cane Sugar The highly trained chemist with all his elaborate laboratory equipment is not able to distinguish between BEET and CANE Sugar. BEET SUGAR produced in Utah and Idaho is of the highest developed refined process, which removes all impurities and yields an unexcelled quality of pure, white, fine, clean BEET SUGAR.. BEET SUGAR can be used for all purposes with entire success. Europeans, with a reputation for making the finest of preserves and confections, prefer BEET SUGAR. Keep your money in circulation at home. Patronize a great HOME INDUSTRY—one that gives employment to thousands and insures a profitable crop for the farmers. BUY BEET SUGAR WEET, pure and nutritious, BLUE PINE OLIVE OIL is the brand you should unfailingly use for salads and dressings. And for all other olive oil uses, Blue Pine is equally good —to be preferred, always, to ordinary brands. BLUE PINE OLIVE OIL is made from ripe French Olives, the pick of the crop. Buy it by name and get the best. Other BLUE PINE products SCOWCROFT PRODUCT — Mention Relief Society Magazine Vol. XI NOV EMBER CONTENTS Boating on the Jordan, in Utah........ Frontispiece The Fruits of Faith... Alfred Osmond Blessings in Disguise..... Orson F, Whitney Thanksgiving Day... Samantha T. B. Foley Investing in: Love................ Annie D. Palmer The Use of Mental Tests.... Lofter Bjarnason Editorial—Woman and the Scientific Age.. Conference of Utah Public Health Assn. An Appreciation... Edith Ivins Lamoreaux A Thanksgiving Lesso Response. D n.... A. /E, Winship...... Clarissa S. Williams Tuberculosis: A Social Disease.................- A Out Door Sleeping by Daline A. Buffington Notes from the Field by Amy Brown Lyman Nature's Alchemy by Linda J. Fletcher Guide Lessons for January
345 547 562 563 568 570 570 573 579 581 582 587 588
Organ of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints Room 20 Bishop's Bldg. Salt Lake City, Utah $1.00 a Year—Single Copy, 10c Canada and Foreign, $1.25 a Year—15c Single Copy
Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah
Notice to Subscribers
We urge all agents to send subscriptions for the 1925 Relief Society Magazine as early as possible. We wish to correct the idea that we do not receive subscriptions beginning any month in the year desired. We furnish twelve copies for $1.00; foreign $1.25.
Temple and Burial Clothes Complete Suits For Men and Women Variety of Grades and Prices Prompt and Careful Attention Mail—Telephone—Telegraph Orders. Open Daily, 9 A. M.—5 P. M.
General Board Relief Society 23 Bishop's Building Salt Lake City, Utah Phone Wasatch 3286
SALT LAKE CITY, the Best at the Lowest Prices
AUERBACH'S NEW FURNITURE ANNEX Furnish your home at a big saving and pay for your furniture in easy installment payments.
AUERBACH CO. DEPARTMENT STORE BROADWAY and STATE SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH Quality Merchandise
W. M. McCONAHAY THE JEWELER 64 So. Main Phone Was. 1821 Salt Lake City, Utah
When Shopping Mention Relief Society Magazine
Competent Office Help— Is always in demand. If you are bright, alert, and ambitious, you will find a business college training a wonderful investment. This is the best time of the year to begin. Write or call today.
L. D. S. BUSINESS COLLEGE Day and Evening SALT LAKE CITY All the Year
ICE CREAM CANDY CAKE PUNCHES deliciously different PHONE WAS. 3223
The management of the Relief Society Magazine requests that whenever possible, remit by Post Office order in payment for subscriptions.
NEW GARMENTS
The "Temple Brand" Garments are handled only by your leading merchants. We make a Variety of Grades and Weights to meet every requirement, with strings and buttons, long or short sleeves and legs as you want them according to seasonable desires. Samples submitted on request.
For Ladies For Men No. 1—Flat Weave Light................ 95 No. 902—Ribbed Light Weight... 1.25 No. 2—Ribbed Weave Light............ 1.25 No. 903—Ribbed Extra Quality.... 1.75 No. 15—Extra Quality Flat.............. 1.45 No. 925—Med. Light Weight........ 1.85 No. 803—Extra Quality Ribbed...... 1.50 No. 975—Med. Heavy Weight...... 2.25 No. 825—Med. Weight Cotton...... 1.85 No. 990—Heavy Econ. Cotton........ 2.50 No. 800—Silk Stripe Med............ 2.00 No. 9107—Wool & Cotton................ 4.00 No. 850—Imp. Lisle..................... 2.50 No. 970—Silk & Wool & Cotton.... 4.50
To insure a good fit give bust measure, height, and weight, specify whether garments are for men or women, and state whether long sleeves ankle length or short sleeves three quarter legs are desired. Double Backs 25c extra. Garments marked 15c pair extra. We prepay postage to all parts of United States.
Oldest Knitting Company in Utah SALT LAKE KNITTING STORE, 70 Main St., Salt Lake City
Ask your dealer for Z. C. M. I. Factory Made Kiddies' Allovers DUTCH CUT They are the famous Mountaineer Brand — in dark blue, light blue, striped and khaki Mothers—they are just what you need for the little tots—and the kiddies like them too
The Fruits of Faith
By Alfred Osmond, Head of the English Department of the Brigham Young University, Provo, Utah
If from a tree I pluck delicious fruit, Shall I not say the tree itself is good? And cultivate with care each tender shoot That it may grow in strength and hardihood. Shall I not say, when I have understood: This tree is precious in the sight of God, "This Foster Nurse of flesh and bone and blood That rises from the rich and fertile sod Becomes the saving grace of this perceiving clod?"
A tree that bears the luscious fruits of joy Is growing in the garden of my mind. God planted it when I was but a boy, When I was dumb and almost deaf and blind. Although I have not always been inclined To nourish it with good and gracious deeds, In later years, it has become enshrined In springs of thought that lie too deep for tears, To gladden all my hopes and chasten all my fears.
It lifts its branches to the starry sky, And sheds its fragrance on the desert air, Assuring me that I shall never die And making life seem beautiful and fair. When I was bruised and bleeding in despair, Its virtue set my captive spirit free, And nursed me with a mother's tender care Until my tearless eyes could clearly see My fondest hopes in life were blossoms of the tree.
I ate the fruit. My head began to whirl With dizziness I could not understand. The taste was sweet, but fairy flags unfurled And angels took me gently by the hand And led—not led—a bright celestial band Of heavenly beings bore my soul away To that delightful, far-off Promised Land Where flesh and bones of men do not decay, And sin can never come to lead the soul astray.
BOATING ON THE JORDAN, IN UTAH
THE Relief Society Magazine Vol. XI NOVEMBER, 1924 No. 11
Blessings in Disguise
By Orson F. Whitney, of the Council of the Twelve
Our greatest blessings often come in disguise. The experiences that gratify selfish longings are not the ones that do us the largest good. Those that involve privation and sacrifice are the most beneficial. Growth and progress depend more upon hard than upon soft conditions, and the tribulations suffered in this "vale of tears" are among the most effective agencies employed by Providence for our education and advancement.
"Sweet are the uses of adversity," for when rightly used it becomes the parent of wisdom, and such precious qualities as patience, faith, fortitude and humility spring from it as naturally as flowers from fertile soil. Tragedy, not comedy, is the great educator; pain, not pleasure, the leading part in the drama of human development.
"'Tis sorrow builds the shining ladder up, Whose golden rounds are our calamities."
Sickness is generally regarded as a calamity, and yet it may have its advantages. Frequently it is a means of recuperation, giving to the overworked mind and body opportunity for needed rest. It rejuvenates one mentally and physically. President Heber C. Kimball once said to President Joseph Young, who had just recovered from a protracted illness and was out among his friends once more: "Brother Joseph, you would have been dead by now, if it had not been for that sick spell."
Sickness and sorrow are good eye-openers, too. They add to our store of knowledge. They show us who our friends are.
"It is not when riches and splendor surround us, That friendship and friends can be put to the test; 'Tis but when affliction's cold presence hath bound us, We find which the hearts are that love us the best.
For friends will fawn At fortune's dawn, When the breeze and the tide bear us steadily on; But when sorrow o'ertakes us, Each false one forsakes us, And leaves us to sink and to struggle alone."
548 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
Who has read but to admire Emerson's great essay on "Compensation?" A few paragraphs from that masterpiece of profound thought and eloquent expression are here presented:
"The changes that break up at short intervals the prosperity of men, are advertisements of a nature whose law is growth. Evermore it is the order of nature to grow, and every soul is by this intrinsic necessity quitting its whole system of things, * * * as the shell-fish crawls out of its beautiful but stony case, because it no longer admits of its growth, and slowly forms a new house. * * * Then there can be enlargement, and the man of today scarcely recognizes the man of yesterday."
"We cannot part with our friends. We cannot let our angels go. We do not see that they only go out, that archangels may come in. We are idolaters of the old. * * * We do not believe there is any force in today to rival or recreate that beautiful yesterday. * * * We cannot find aught so dear, so sweet, so graceful. But we sit and weep in vain. The voice of the Almighty saith, 'Up and onward forevermore!'"
"And yet the compensations of calamity are made apparent to the understanding also, after long intervals of time. A fever, a mutilation, a cruel disappointment, a loss of wealth, a loss of friends seems at the moment unpaid loss, and unpayable. But the sure years reveal the deep remedial force that underlies all facts. The death of a dear friend, wife, brother, lover, which seemed nothing but privation, somewhat later assumes the aspect of a guide or genius; for it commonly operates revolutions in our way of life, terminates an epoch of infancy or of youth which was waiting to be closed, breaks up a wonted occupation, or a household, or style of living, and allows the formation of new ones more friendly to the growth of character. It permits or constrains the formation of new acquaintances, and the reception of new influences that prove of the first importance to the next years; and the man or woman who would have remained a sunny garden flower, with no room for its roots and too much sunshine for its head, by the falling of the walls and the neglect of the gardener, is made the banian of the forest, yielding shade and fruit to wide neighborhoods of men."
In another part of that splendid essay the following sentences are to be found:
"Our strength grows out of our weakness. Not until we are 'pricked and stung and sorely shot at, awakens the indignation which arms itself with secret forces. * * * Blame is safer than praise."
Particularly appealing to me is the thought that the power to feed and shelter the unfortunate is itself an outgrowth of misfortune; the misfortune bringing forth the power. A near at
BLESSINGS IN DISGUISE 549
hand illustration is furnished in the experience and example of such men as President Joseph F. Smith and President Heber J. Grant. Had they been pampered in the lap of luxury, the course of their lives might have been far different. But they were left fatherless in their childhood, each in the care of a widowed mother, and had to struggle for the success they achieved, the most glorious part of which, to my thinking, is the power they developed to encourage and assist others.
Adversity and affliction, when patiently borne, purify the heart, broaden the mind, and make the soul more tender and charitable. Without a sense of suffering, there could be no such thing as philanthropy, no such thing as charity. What would the world do without men and women who have suffered? To whom do we go, in times of trouble, for advice and consolation? Is it to those who know nothing of hardship, whose souls have been dwarfed by self-indulgence, whose shallow lives are one continual round of pleasure and dissipation? No, we would as soon think of seeking shelter under a willow or a sagebrush, in the midst of a raging storm. But here is a giant oak, whose roots have struck deep and deeper into the soil, and whose branches have spread wide and wider, because of the tempests that have swayed them and swept through them, breaking off dead limbs, perchance, but imparting new vigor, new strength to the live ones. There we find shelter and protection.
Even so, amid calamity's storm and stress, we apply to men and women who have "come up through great tribulation," who are able, out of the wealth of their experience, to minister for our uplift and welfare. To them we go for counsel, for comfort, for the help which they, under God, are alone qualified to give. They are his instruments for that purpose.
Thank the Lord for tribulations, for losses and disappointments, for blighted hopes and thwarted ambitions, for sorrow, sickness, and even death when timely! They are blessings in disguise, and will reveal themselves as such, if we will but wait long enough to see unfold the purpose of the All-Wise in permitting them. For they could not come without his permission. Satan could not afflict Job until the Almighty said, Thou mayest. We are not in Satan's hands. The devils are subject to the Lord's will, and contribute in spite of themselves to the carrying out of his benevolent designs.
There is a great and wise purpose in all that we are called upon to endure. Man came upon earth to suffer as well as to enjoy, to learn by experience of contrasts, the lessons that cannot be learned otherwise or elsewhere. We taste the bitter, that we may know the sweet; we have sorrow, that we may find joy—the fulness of joy, which is synonymous with celestial glory.
550 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
It is by opposition that we progress, and by contrasts that we become wise. Wisdom grows upon the tree of Experience, planted in the soil of human suffering. And we knew all this before we came here, knew it "when the morning stars sang together, and all the sons of God shouted for joy" not over the prospect of suffering, but over the glorious outcome, the predestined fruit of that suffering. We knew it would be a blessing, a wonderful blessing, though it might come in deep disguise.
Joseph Smith, long before Ralph Waldo Emerson (if I read history aright), taught the great doctrine of Compensation. The Prophet was lying in a dungeon, in the mob-ridden state of Missouri. His people had been despoiled and driven, and he, with a few faithful friends, had been thrown into prison, where he spent the dreary winter of 1838-9. In the agony of his soul he called upon God for deliverance, and was answered in these precious words:
"My son, peace be unto thy soul; thine adversity and thine affliction shall be but a small moment.
"And then, if thou endure it well, God shall exalt thee on high; thou shalt triumph over all thy foes."
"If thou art called to pass through tribulations; if thou art in perils among false brethren; if thou art in perils among robbers; if thou art in perils by land or by sea;
"If thou art accused with all manner of false accusations; if thine enemies fall upon thee; if they tear thee from the society of thy father and mother and brethren and sisters; and if with a drawn sword thine enemies tear thee from the bosom of thy wife, and of thine offspring * * * and thou be dragged to prison, and thine enemies prowl around thee like wolves for the blood of the lamb;
"And if thou shouldst be cast into the pit, or into the hands of murderers, and the sentence of death passed upon thee; if thou be cast into the deep; if the billowing surge conspire against thee; if fierce winds become thine enemy; if the heavens gather blackness, and all the elements combine to hedge up the way; and above all, if the very jaws of hell shall gape open the mouth wide after thee, know thou, my son, that all these things shall give thee experience, and shall be for thy good.
"The Son of Man hath descended below them all. Art thou greater than he?"
Yes, Jesus himself descended below all, that he might experience and comprehend all. And in so doing he but followed in the footsteps of his heavenly Father. For did he not say: "The Son doeth nothing but what he hath seen the Father do?"
Then, says the Prophet Joseph, commenting upon these marvelous
Thanksgiving Day
By Samantha T. B. Foley
Let the mountains sing with gladness, And hills the sound prolong; Awake, ye wilds, with freshness, And tune your throats with song; Let the waters gush with sweetness From the parched and desert sod, To celebrate the kindness Of the great eternal God.
Let space resound with voices, While angels join the theme Echoed by mortal praises And thanks to God, our King. Let the worlds increase their beauty To magnify his grace; Let mankind trust him fully As Author of our race.
Let the ocean roll in glory, And mirror worlds afar, To tell creation's story Of every shining star. God's poem is the heavens, And space shall sing his song While cradling new creations As the ages roll along.
Let the rainbow, with its colors, Weave garlands everywhere, Fill space with flowering glories, Make paths for angels there. Let the lightning cease its flashing, Grow tame without the rod, And tune her tongues to chanting Eternal praise to God.
Let the earth become as Eden Whence man communed with God And walked with him at even Upon this earthly sod; May his returning glorify And blaze the earth with light, Until her splendor shall outvie The orbs of day or night.
Investing in Love
Annie D. Palmer
Just a week till Thanksgiving day. Mrs. Sumner Lance sat resting her head in her hands, thinking, wondering. Thanksgiving day would be the ninth anniversary of their wedding. For nine years she had prepared his meals for Sumner, kept the house in order, and rested and dreamed. For nine years her husband had worked and saved to make the home comfortable. The furniture was good, even luxurious. There were pictures and books and music—everything that had entered into her girlhood dreams, and more than she had known how to dream. Sumner was kind and affectionate. They went to parties, to theatres, to balls. She had few cares and no worries. But Mrs. Lance was not happy.
It may be that her head ached from the revelry of the night before. Perhaps she had caught the gloom that showed on the face of her husband. Or, perchance, her guardian angel whispered censure at her almost useless life.
How her mind wandered, catching first at this item and then at that! Would Sumner want her to give less time to society? She might do volunteer work in the Charity Organization; but she hated to go into the haunts of poverty and vice. She could give her services to the church; but it seemed so dull and uninteresting. Some women had pets, a bird, a poodle; she wanted no cares of this sort, either.
Those dainty little bonbon baskets Margie Simms was making! How she had wished to get hold of them, to get them ready for the popcorn and candy, to fill them and hang them on a Christmas tree! She laughed aloud at the thought of a Christmas tree for two grown up people, for her and Sumner. No, they couldn't have a Christmas tree. They couldn't have anything very nice, just she and Sumner. But she could borrow some "kiddies" for the occasion. What fun to string popcorn some evening when Sumner was at home! How jolly to go out and gather bright rose berries and thread long necklaces for little guests to wear! How interesting to watch the wide open eyes while she would tell to children the old, old, story beginning, "Once upon a time!" She flattered herself she could tell child stories exceptionally well.
From Christmas her thought wandered on into the years, and then back again, back again to now, the week before Thanksgiving and her wedding anniversary. Why not feature children on Thanksgiving day? Why not make her anniversary present to Sumner a? If she had only thought of it a month ago when Dr. Joslyn asked her to adopt a baby? She remembered now that Sumner had seemed a bit disappointed at the time. This baby's father
554 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
had been killed in a terrible train disaster, and the poor little mother, whose first born was scarcely a year old, was too frail to undertake the responsibility of providing and caring for the one soon to be born.
The more Marcel thought about it, the more sure she felt that in no other way could she please her husband so much.
"I'll do it," she said to herself decisively, "that is, if I can still get the baby."
She went to the telephone and called Dr. Joslyn.
"This is Mrs. Lance, doctor," she said when he answered, "Mrs. Sumner Lance, yes; do you know how my husband felt about my refusing to take the baby you spoke about? Disappointed. I thought so, well, I suppose I'm too late now; but I just dared to hope you haven't promised it to some one else. Do you really think I could take this baby and—and live? You know I'm not very strong, and may I have it? Oh, thank you, doctor. You see it is to please my husband... You'll keep my secret, of course. I want to surprise Sumner. Our ninth wedding anniversary is Thanksgiving day. I hope—well, of course, you can't say when, exactly. I'll send a basket with some soft flannels, this evening. Now remember, doctor, not a word of this to anyone. Goodbye."
Five minutes later the excited little woman was in animated conversation with her mother; for the path down through the raspberry patch was short, and Marcel Lance wanted an ally.
"You see, Marmee dear, all our wedding anniversaries are painful to Chum, because there are no little folks in the house. His brother Neal who was married on the same day that we were, brought his first born to see us on the day we had been married a year. I imagined even then that I saw a look of sadness on the face of Chum. Of course, he has never admitted it to me; but I just feel that every time there is a new baby at Neal's, our home seems a little more lonely than before."
"And Neal has four?"
"Yes, three boys and a girl. Fine youngsters, too, how does Molly ever manage with them all?"
"A mother gets used to it, dear."
"Do you think I can learn to manage, mother? I do so want to succeed if I take this big responsibility—to make it really worth while."
"Have you considered the sacrifice?"
"Yes, Marmee dear, when I take this baby, I shall say goodbye to everything I love, society, nice dresses, tidy rooms, afternoon naps, everything except Chummy and you."
"Why, my dear—"
"I know very well, Marmee, that some women do go out and have good times and still raise babies, but I can hardly get my work done as it is. Besides, I shall have nothing to wear. Chum
INVESTING IN LOVE 555
gave me forty dollars last night to buy a dress for our wedding party. It will take every cent of that for a layette. And then there's feeding bottles, castoria, catnip and pacifiers. I must put new sleeves in my old green taffeta this afternoon."
"Don't you think you overestimate things a little?"
"Not a bit, mother dear. I have figured it all out, the expense, the care, the worry, the responsibility. You know, I don't believe in going into things blindly. When you have figured the whole cost and decided that a purchase is worthy the price, you try harder to be satisfied with your bargain. Mr. Bing has been trying to persuade me to save part of my pin money and invest in life insurance that will mature in twenty years, and give me a thousand dollars. I propose to invest all my pin money and a good deal besides, in the care of a human soul, and take chances on what it will bring me in twenty years. If it should come to me in the way it came to the mother of young Harold King, ten times a thousand dollars could not measure my excessive joy. I sat where I could see the face of Mrs. King when her son delivered his wonderful lecture, 'Looking to Manhood,' before the big audience in Hapworth hall. She fairly beamed with joy and satisfaction. I tried to imagine that Harold was my boy, and into my soul there came a happiness that I had never even dreamed before, that I can never hope to dream again unless my child shall grow up to do me honor. You must have felt it, mother, when Earl took his degree at college, and when you heard his plea in court for poor old widow Mansfield."
"Yes, dear, yes. And I feel it just the same when your big strong brother John stops in on his way from the farm and tells me how his crops are growing; and I feel it when you make a good resolution and stand by it. It isn't just the child that occupies the grand stand, that quickens the beating of a mother's heart. The silent approval of the conscience means more to her than the applause of the multitude."
"Marmee dear, I want Chum to feel that joy! It isn't right that he should be cheated out of it, when there are so many opportunities to take a child into our home. Of course, I don't know how I shall ever stand the strain, but—"
"If you think the task so great, dear, perhaps you ought not to try. God has not sent children to you."
"God has sent me the opportunity to take one of his little ones to my home. He has blessed me with a good husband and with many comforts, and I mean to try to do my part in the biggest work that was ever given to woman to do. Will you take care of the little one when it comes, until a week from today and keep my secret?"
"To be sure, but—"
"Then it is settled, and I must go to my work."
The week that began with this important decision was per-
556 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
haps the busiest week Marcel Lance had ever known. Having made up her mind as to the nature of the anniversary celebration, and taken counsel with Sumner about it, she was determined to make it a brilliant affair. She was equally determined that all social obligations be wiped out with this party so that henceforth and forever she could devote herself to home, husband and baby.
In order to make room for the many guests, she cleared the bedrooms and furnished them with borrowed chairs. She swept and dusted and polished until there was no spot nor blemish about her home, from where the front gate swung open to the far end of the cement porch in the rear. She put new sleeves, collar, and belt on the green taffeta dress, and when she told herself it looked very well, indeed, and since the color was so becoming she could wear it this once with perfect dignity.
And now Thanksgiving was only two days off; and in the two days she must bake and roast and stew, and make a few more of the good luck baskets, and get everything done that would stand doing before the very last day. She had purposely helped Chummy to plan a business trip that would keep him away until the morning of the last day, because she feared he might happen to run in at mother's and see the surprise she hoped to have there for him, or ask some question of the seamstress who was there making the layette.
In the middle of the forenoon the telephone rang. At the very same moment Marcel sniffed burning cake. She answered the telephone.
"Dr. Joslyn," a hurried voice announced, "We have a boy and—"
"All right, doctor, bring it right up to mother's, a boy did you say?"
"Yes, a boy and—"
"Oh, I'm so glad, Goodbye"
And Mrs. Lance hastened to her burning nut cake.
She had barely time to take care of her cake and meet the doctor when his car stopped at her mother's gate.
"I am so glad you are on time, doctor," she said excitedly, following him into the house. "Sumner and I always give each other something, some little gift, you know, on our wedding anniversary. And it's a boy!"
"Yes, it's a boy and—" Dr. Joslyn emphasized the and this time because he had said it before.
"That will please Sumner, I know," interrupted Mrs. Lance. "Set the basket down and let me see the darling."
Dr. Joslyn set the basket down and lifted the blanket that covered it.
"For goodness sake, doctor, twins!" Marcel Lance sank down in the nearest chair, and for a time no one could say whether she were laughing or crying.
INVESTING IN LOVE 557
"Oh you little darlings!" said her mother bending over them in rapt admiration.
"Of course, Mrs. Lance," the doctor explained, "you are not obliged to keep them both. It would be perfectly lovely for them if they could stay together but if—"
"The boy is the stronger, isn't he?" asked Mrs. Lance coming to look again.
"Yes, the girl is frail," answered the doctor. "But a blonde. See her open her round, blue eyes! They are blue, aren't they? Poor little girlie! Mother, which one do you think I ought to take?"
"Well, now, I can't say. It's a question the good kind Father doesn't give most mothers to decide," the mother answered.
"It's to be Sumner's gift," Mrs. Lance said meditatively, "and Sumner would want the boy; just look at the pitiful pucker on sister's mouth. Who is to take her, doctor, in case—"
"In case they are to be separated, one goes to Susan Tuft."
"That cross old cat? No wonder the little thing is about to cry. To be taken away from a perfectly lovely brother and go to Susan Tuft! It can't be done, doctor, it can't be done! It will kill me I know to have them both, but I might as well die a martyr. Mother will you take care of the twins till Thursday night?"
"I certainly will, and I'll help a good deal after that, there, there, little dears, grandmother will fix a bottle!"
While her mother was crooning to the babies, Mrs. Lance took a few careful instructions from the doctor and he left. The door had barely closed behind Dr. Joslyn, when Sumner's boy set up a lusty howl; and immediately the other twin joined in with a pitiful wail. The attention of both women was demanded at once. As Marcel held in her arms the tiny mite of a girl, and cuddled it and warmed its feet before the fire, and put the velvety little face against hers, there was awakened in her heart all the strength of the mother love that had slept. For what woman can feel the clinging touch of baby fingers and not be thrilled with the mother instinct? What woman can sense the baby head rolling on her arm as it gropes for nourishment and not wish that she might clasp it to her bosom?
"Marmee dear," she said when they had made the babies comfortable and quiet, "I just know I shall love this little darling. I wonder what Chummy will say?"
In the hospital ward a few minutes later, Dr. Joslyn gazed upon the peaceful countenance of the frail mother. Her hands had been folded across her bosom. Her eyes were closed in death, and unseen by mortal eyes her guardian angel conducted her spirit to where two motherly women tenderly ministered to her babies. She reached forth her hands in benediction, and a spirit prayer ascended to God for his blessings and guidance for the motherly women.
558 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
Sumner Lance had been away from home for four days. As he sat apart in the big hotel lobby that evening, it suddenly occurred to him that Thursday was Thanksgiving Day and his wedding anniversary. He had hoped that he might finish his business and go home on Wednesday morning; but one of the men he must see was out of town. Luckily, Marcel did not expect him till Thursday, anyway. Dear Marcel! She had looked so tired and careworn when he left. Life was so lonely for her with business keeping him so much away. If only they had been given a child! That would have made life so different for Marcel. As for him, it mattered little. To be sure he had wanted a son very much, but a man gets used to disappointments.
He took up a paper and tried to read. Was he homesick? He kept thinking of Marcel and the loneliness of her life. Why not go to the Orphan's Home and see what kind of "kiddies" they have there? Of course he could not take a child home without consulting his wife, but he could see if they looked bright and well. What would it cost to keep a little girl? Could he afford the price? He began to cast up accounts—milk, medicine, doctor's care, schooling, clothes, sleepless nights, days of toil, endless worry—he counted them all just as his wife had done, and just as she had done he decided that he could sacrifice all his pleasure for what would give the greatest measure of joy to the one he loved most. He would go and see the little girls at the Orphan's Home.
It was yet early so he went out and boarded a street car.
A wizzened little spinster opened the door for him, and in answer to his question said: "Yes, there's lots of children here, more than we have room for, and we're glad to get rid of—that is to put some of them in good homes. They're all in bed now. Would you like to look at them asleep?"
"If I may," answered Mr. Lance relieved that he was privileged to see them when they were good.
He was conducted through the sleeping rooms where there was row upon row of tiny, white-covered cots on which rested towseled heads, black, brown and golden.
"Can I have this little fellow?" he asked as he paused beside a dark haired boy.
"I think so," the woman answered, taking the number of the cot. "We will look him up in the office."
The boy threw one arm out from under the cover upturned his face to the light and smiled in his sleep. Dear Laddie, perhaps the angels whispered to him of a real home! Sumner Lance saw the smile, and stood for a moment picturing to himself the sturdy youngster struggling to mount a rocking horse, or building towers with blocks upon the floor of his tidy home. How would Marcel feel about that? He must talk to Marcel first.
INVESTING IN LOVE 559
"Care to look at the girls?" asked the woman.
Yes, he would look at the girls. Following the attendant, he soon came to where they were. The first little girl he saw was irresistible. She was four years old, old enough to be over colic, teething troubles, and a lot of things that would have made the care of her hard for Marcel. She was fair, as a mountain lily, with just a tint of rose color on her round little cheeks. Her hair was the color of evening sunshine and curled ever so softly about her ears and neck. A big teardrop glistened on her cheek, and the wet lashes twitched a way that told Sumner she was not asleep.
"She just came this morning," explained the spinster woman, "and she has cried most of the day for her mother."
"Where is her mother?"
"Died yesterday in the County Hospital."
"I will take this child. May I come for her Thursday morning?"
And so it was settled. Sumner lay awake half the night wondering if Marcel would think him crazy for bringing a child home without consulting her. He had not intended to do it, but what if some one else had taken this little girl? Surely Marcel would like her.
He left the child at the station with the agent's wife when he got home on Thursday, with orders for the express man to bring her to the house at exactly half past eight. He had bought for her a dainty blue frock and ribbon, which he left to be put on by the agent's wife.
It was a merry party that gathered at the festal board that night. The relatives were there, the friends, the social parasites, and there were still others, for Marcel wanted this to be a real Thanksgiving with the real Thanksgiving spirit; therefore she had borrowed several families who were so poor that no holiday could mean anything much. Sumner had not seen the invitations. They read:
"Let's put our work and care away, And all enjoy Thanksgiving Day. We'll sing and dance, we'll play and dine— And this includes all thee and thine. We feature children. Bring them all, There's room and fun for big and small. That man will be in sorry plight Who comes without a child this night. And good luck baskets will await The early comers. Don't be late."
So they came early and the dinner was served piping hot. It was a dinner without a flaw. Marcel directed the serving, told clever jokes and made everyone feel joyously at home. When
560 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
the dessert was served she announced that everyone had come on time, and so everyone would receive a good luck basket, and the three young girls who were assisting her came in with the dainty things, two at a time, in their hands. The baskets were filled with popcorn pink and white. But hidden in each was some little surprise—a chew of gum, a fortune slip, a friendly wish, and in special cases a handful of pennies, a nickel or a dime. The arrangement was perfect. Everyone got the right thing.
"Is there a basket for my husband?" asked Marcel, and two of the girls came forward with the clothes basket and placed it on a chair. Sumner took a step forward just as the door opened and an expressman deposited on the floor a tall box. All merriment was hushed. Everyone looked expectant.
"Dear Chummy," said Mrs. Lance almost choking with emotion, "I am giving you tonight a gift that I hope will give you pleasure all the rest of your life. I am perfectly willing to help you take care of it, and I sincerely hope you will like it as well as I do."
"I shall not look until I have presented my gift to you, dear," he said as he removed the light perforated cover from the tall box. Gently he lifted from it the fairy-like little girl in blue and gave her to the arms of his astonished wife. "Her name is Nina," he added, "May heaven help you to keep her."
While his wife sat speechless with the arms of the child clasped about her neck, Mr. Lance uncovered the basket she had given him. An instant he stood spell bound. Then he burst into a laugh that rang through all the house and brought all the guests to their feet. Taking the two babies in his arms the man stood awkwardly and received the congratulations of the crowd. His wife sat silently in her rocker and cuddled the frightened Nina until the child lisped in a baby whisper, "I love you, pretty lady. Is you my nuvver mama?"
When the party was over and the last guest was gone, Sumner Lance seated himself before the open grate to relax his nerves and think. The gifts had been treated as a huge joke, and had caused their friends a deal of merriment, but the fun was over now, and the little folks were here. It was no joking matter, already he felt the heavy responsibility of his fatherhood, the need of living a blameless life in order to do the best by these children. He had seen so much unwisdom in the lives of fathers—had made for himself so many rules of conduct to be lived if he ever had a family of his own. His wife came after a few minutes and laid her hand on his caressingly. "You know, Chummy," she said doubtfully, "we can give one of the twins back if we don't want to keep them both." "Didn't Mrs. Julian say she would take Nina if we care to let her go?" he asked looking at her tenderly. INVESTING IN LOVE — 561 "Yes, Chummy dear, but I can't think of parting with Nina. She has already accepted me as her 'nuvver mama'.". "Which one of the twins shall we give up?" he asked. "Tt's for you to decide, Chummy. Only which ever one it is goes to Susan Tuft. You know how cross she is and it does seem like they simply have a right to each other, being twins." "I say, dearie, what have we done with all the other presents we have given each other?" "Treasured them up, Chummy, and loved them, always." "And here we are, just because we have generously collected for each other two little girls and a boy, wondering what to do about it. Suppose we keep them all." "Now you are my own dear Chum," she answered, as she joyfully threw her arms about his neck. "I was so afraid you wouldn't like the twins." A satisfied smile overspread the countenance of Sumner Lance as he enfolded his wife in a tender embrace and. Whispered: ate Lo, children are an heritage of the Lord. Blessed is he that hath his quiver full of them.' " II We must close the portals over the following twenty years, while the investment they made matures. Most of our readers can imagine both the premiums and the dividends; for who has not seen the care, the toil and the anxiety, who has not witnessed the joy, the pride and the delight, that come with the rearing of children? And now twenty years were gone, and again it was Thanksgiving eve, the anniversary of the wedding day of Sumner and Marcel Lance. The living room was aglow; but only the family were expected to enjoy it tonight. Mr. Lance sat in his big easy chair with Nina's two beautiful children perched on the arms of it. Marcel and Nina busied themselves in kitchen and dining room, and Nina's husband gazed proudly at his offspring and waited his turn to romp with them. "'Where's mother?" asked Louise entering almost breathless. "Oh, here she is. Daddy, this is for you with love and kisses." And she proceeded to shower the kisses upon him and the babies, and then upon Mrs. Lance, who had entered. "Mother, dear, I wish this gift were a hundred times as good as it really is! I wish I could do something very, very fine | for you, you dearest, best mother in all the world! I wish I could do something that would just make you feel how much I love you! Do the slippers fit, daddy? Do you like the color of the tie? Such little presents for the dearest daddy. I just happened to remember that you liked raisins better, or I should have got you. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE a box of chocolates like mother's, Oh, kiddies, I nearly forgot. Here are some Parrot sticks for you." While Louise beamed and chattered, Marcel untied her parcel and now held up to view a fur that had cost the girl a full month's salary at teaching. "My child," she explained, "you cannot afford | this!" "Oh, yes, 'mother, for you I can. Try it on.' And now Richard entered. He also was beaming but from another reason. He passed through the living room whispering as he passed her, "mother." Mrs. Lance followed him. When they were alone he put both arms around her and said softly: "I had to tell you first, mother dear. It has come, my letter from Box B has come. Look!" With trembling hands she took the letter he held out to her, and hastily read it through. "To Great Britain,' she said. "This means that you will carry the gospel to your father's people and mine. That you will be a savior to our house. Oh, wonderful opportunity, my boy!" "I am so happy, mother, and I did not buy any presents today because I want to bear my own expense on my mission.' "God bless you, my son!' Marcel said fervently as tears trickled down her cheeks. "Why not admit us all to the council?' called Mr. Lance. And they: were all admitted. "Oh, Bud, a mission? And you'll give up college and everything?" questioned Louise. "Yes, sister, everything. I should not be a worthy son of mother and daddy if I should give up less than everything for what they have taught me." Richard Lance threw back his broad shoulders and looked a prince in his clean young manhood. "We can help to keep you," volunteered Nina with a glance at her husband. "Trust me for taking care of our missionary," said Louise. "Why are we twins if not to divide up? Ill send Rich half my salary every month. Then I can really have a share in his mission. Oh, Bud, I'm so proud of you!" Then she, too, threw back her shoulders and straightened herself in the dignity of her womanhood. Richard's mission was the main topic of the long evening. Before any of them retired the answer to his letter from Box B had been framed, and an early date fixed for his departure. "The investment has certainly paid, Sumner," Marcel said firmly when she and her husband were alone. "It is twenty years tonight since we made our big investment. The policy should have matured." "And it has," answered Mr. Lance gravely, "it has paid an even thousand fold. The Lord be praised." The Use of Mental Tests By Lofter Bjarnason, Assistant Professor of Elementary Education, University of Utah No two blades of grass or leaves of the same tree are identical. Every animal even of the same species differs from every other and similarly there are no two individuals that are exactly alike. These physical differences in individuals are matters of common observation. Mental differences are scarcely less obvious. No two persons have the same degree of mental ability in all lines of intellectual achievement. This has been known from time immemorial. But why they differ so has not been so well known. We know, however, that intellectual ability depends upon two factors: (1) inborn mental capacity which is held to be limited and fixed by inheritance; and (2) environmental influences which may be largely controlled and modified by parents and teachers. The main purpose of mentality tests is to measure this inborn capacity, or "general intelligence." Other tests called "educational tests" have been devised to measure intellectual ability acquired through instruction and training.. For many years philosophers held that mental phenomena could not be measured in an objective way. Experimental study of the mental life of individuals began less than a century ago. The movement is so recent that many of our most prominent present day teachers of psychology, Hall, Titchener, Neumann, Cattell, Judd and others studied under Wilhelm Wundt, the father of modern experimental psychology. The progress of any science is largely dependent upon the method of investigation and the improvement of the instruments of measurement. No group of investigators have been more conscious of this fact than the modern psychologists. But the workings of the mind are so elusive and difficult to understand that before the last decade little progress had been made in measuring them. It is to men motivated by sympathy for the unfortunate that we are indebted for the tests and scales for measuring intelligence that we now have. Men who dealt with - abnormal individuals were the first to sense the need of testing mentality scientifically. Many and varied tests have been devised. Most of the early attempts were in the form of questions directed to adults and the method of grading was faulty. The main purpose was to ascertain the degree of abnormality and what little light these tests shed on normality came as a by-product. Little was known of standards for adults and nothing of standards 564 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE for children. In recent years, however, methods have been improved and although the tests and scales are by no means perfect much light has been shed on the problem. Just what this inborn mental capacity or general intelligence is, is difficult to identify. We can see its manifestations but are unable to ascertain its real nature. That however, should not stop us from attempting to measure it. We use electricity for many purposes. We can transfer it from one form to another. We can use it to heat our ranges, to light our houses and to run street cars and railway trains. Though we do not know its exact nature we measure its power and force. In like manner, men are working out the problem of measuring mentality. It is to a Frenchman, Alfred Binet, that we are indebted for the scale that has been used most extensively. In 1904 the Minister of France assigned him the task of separating the subnormal from the normal children of the nation. Binet called to his assistance a physician named Simon. Together they worked out a series of tests to detect sub-normality. These proved so successful that they decided to formulate another set by which they could test the degree of mental development of the children. This latter scale has won such favor among students of mentality of children that they have been used in almost every civilized country with such modification and adaptation as are needed to suit local needs. Drs. Goddard, of Vineland, New Jersey, and Lewis M. Terman, of Standford University, have made adaptations of the scale to use in American schools. For the benefit of those who may not be familiar with this scale, a synopsis of the 1911 revised edition is given below: Children of the different ages given should have the ability Age 3. 1. To point to nose, eyes, and mouth. To repeat two digits. To enumerate objects in a picture. To give family name. ' To repeat a sentence of six syllables. To give his sex. To name key, knife and penny. To repeat three digits. To compare two lines. > o To compare two weights. To copy a square. To repeat a sentence of ten syllables. To count four pennies. To unite the halves of a divided rectangle. THE USE OF MENTAL TESTS — 565 To distinguish between morning and afternoon. To define certain familiar words in terms of use. To copy a diamond. To count thirteen pennies. To distinguish pictures of ugly and pretty faces. To show right hand and left ear. To describe a picture. To execute three orders given at the same time. To count the value of six sous three of which are double. To name four cardinal colors. To compare two objects from memory. To count from 0 to 20. To note omissions from pictures. To give day and date. To repeat five digits, To give change for twenty-five cents.  To define certain familiar words. To recognize all the ordinary pieces of money. To name the months of the year in order. To answer easy "comprehension questions." To arrange five blocks in order of weight. To copy certain drawings from memory. To criticize absurd statements. To answer difficult "comprehension questions." To use three given words in not more than two sentences. To assist suggestion. To make up one sentence using three given words. To name sixty words in three minutes. To define certain abstract words. To discover the sense of a disarranged sentence. To repeat seven digits. To find three rhymes for a given word. To repeat a sentence of twenty-six syllables. To interpret pictures. To interpret given facts. To solve the paper-cutting test. To rearrange a triangle in imagination. To give differences between pairs of abstract terms. 566 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE 4. To give three differences between a president and a king. 5. To give the main thought of a selection which he has heard read. As already suggested this scale is intended to measure mental development to maturity. This development comes through natural growth, training, and experience. Thus the inborn capacity increases as the brain and nervous system grow until maturity is reached. It is the factor in mental life which makes intelligence possible. A person born with capacity for learning but excluded from all opportunities to learn would remain unintelligent. Intelligence, then, must be acquired. The inborn capacity must then, manifest itself through what the individual learns while he is progressing toward maturity; and since the brain and nervous system reach their maximum growth about the fifteenth year, the measure of an individual's capacity for learning at that age is the measure of his mentality. There is, then, no mental age above the fifteenth or sixteenth year and so two individuals one fifty and the other fifteen each getting the score of an average child of 12 would have the came mental age, namely that of 12. The Binet scale attempts to measure the higher and more complex thought processes of the mind and not simple sense perceptions and reaction time as the tests prepared by his predecessors had done. Dr. Terman worked out for each age a standard of normality. This represents the score received by the greatest number of children of a given age. The mental age of a given child is the score he gets on the test. To show the child's position on the scale of mentality. Tern. An used the term intelligence quotient. It is found by multiplying the mental age by 100 and dividing by the age in years. This is known as the I. Q. of the individual and is supposed to remain constant throughout his life. Individuals of different I. Q's are classified by Terman as follows:
Class Above 140............Near genius or genius. 120 to 140........Very superior intelligence. 110 to 120........Superior intelligence. 90 to 110........Normal, or average, intelligence. 80 to 90........Dullness, rarely classified as feeble-mindedness. 70 to 80........Borderline deficiency, sometimes classifiable as dullness, often as feeble-mindedness. Below 70........Definite feeble-mindedness.
The Sanford Revision of the Binet-Simon scale is an individuality test, that is, it must be administered to children in-
THE USE OF MENTAL TESTS 567
dividually. This takes a great deal of time. Consequently many students of mentality have worked out tests and scales that can be given to several children at the same time. These latter are known as group intelligence tests. Of these the National Intelligence tests and the Otis tests are perhaps the best known. Although the method of giving and scoring such tests differ somewhat from the individual tests, the general purpose that of ascertaining the relative mentality of children is the same.
Mentality tests help the teacher to better understand the child, and are therefore, aids to better teaching, for obviously if the teacher understands the child better she can better instruct him. Other factors being equal or nearly so, one would expect a man of 180 pounds to throw out more dirt from a trench than a man of 120 pounds; and similarly children of great mental capacity should be expected to achieve greater intellectual results than those less gifted. A teacher will, then expect less of a child whose I. Q. is 75 than she does from one whose I. Q. is 125. If she does her work well, she will work each to his capacity, the ideal always being to teach the child that which he needs to know, think and feel up to the limits of his inborn capacity.
To measure the progress of pupils in the subjects taught in school, other tests called educational tests are being devised and improved. The traditional A. B. C. D. marking system is gradually being supplanted by a more definite and accurate system of evaluating the results of instruction. The tendency is to make teaching not only an art but a science.
Both mentality tests and educational tests though still in the experimental stage of development serve a very commendable purpose, namely, that of knowing, in an objective way, the capacity and progress of the child. Each form of test should be interpreted in terms of what it reveals and should never be regarded as the sole criterion. Each is a means of knowing the child better.
But to use tests for the purpose of classifying children as botanists classify plants and then segregating them into groups, is not as important as enthusiasts for mental measurement would have us believe. When children are so segregated, there is a tendency for the teacher to plan her instruction in terms of the group and the class becomes the unit of instruction instead of the individual child. Here the premise is obviously wrong. Learning does not go on in the group as such; it goes on in each individual member of the group. The recognition of this fact has brought about an emphasis on individual instruction through supervised study and the modern school is becoming more and more a place for directed pupil activity and supervised study and less a "recitative" school. In this new type of school the child as an individual and not the group is made the unit of instruction.
EDITORIAL
Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah
Motto—Charity Never Faileth
THE GENERAL BOARD
MRS. CLARISSA SMITH WILLIAMS - - - - - - President MRS. JENNIE BRIMHALL KNIGHT - - - - - First Counselor
MRS. LOUISE YATES ROBISON - - - - - - Second Counselor MRS. AMY BROWN LYMAN - - - - - General Secretary and Treasurer
Mrs. Emma A. Empey Mrs. Lotta Paul Baxter Mrs. Ethel Reynolds Smith Mrs. Jeanette A. Hyde Mrs. Julia A. Child Mrs. Barbara Howell Richards Miss Sarah M. McLelland Mrs. Cora L. Bennion Mrs. Rosannah C. Irvine Mrs. Annie Wells Cannon Mrs. Julia A. F. Lund Miss Alice Louise Reynolds Mrs. Lalene H. Hart Mrs. Amy Whipple Evans Mrs. Lizzie Thomas Edward, Music Director Miss Edna Coray, Organist
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
Editor - - - - - - - - - - CLARISSA SMITH WILLIAMS Associate Editor - - - - - - - ALICE LOUISE REYNOLDS Business Manager - - - - - - - - JEANETTE A. HYDE Assistant Manager - - - - - - AMY BROWN LYMAN
Room 29, Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah
Vol. XI NOVEMBER, 1924 No. 11
Woman and the Scientific Age
The scientific age has proved a real boon to woman. She has been the beneficiary of its practical output to a very marked degree. A veritable revolution has been wrought in household work in forty years' time. The electric motor has succeeded in eliminating the old fashioned washboard, a symbol of household drudgery. A goodly number of homes possess a mangling machine which, with the aid of the electric iron, has so revolutionized ironing that the methods of laundering in the home today are quite as different as the methods of lighting and heating. All of us recall the discomfort engendered in a house by heating irons on a coal stove to launder summer clothing. Today the attachment of an electric iron to a socket in the coolest room in the house permits us to prepare summer clothing in an atmosphere of comfort.
Our pioneer grandmothers tell us that their homes were lighted with a tallow dip. Many of our mothers and grandmothers spent hours of time each day filling lamps with kerosene oil, polishing lamp glasses and globes in order to light the home in the evening. Then, if the lamp were other than a hanging lamp suspended from the ceiling or one that could be fastened securely to the side of the wall, they worried constantly lest some of the children might pull the table cover or climb upon the table and push the lamp over, thereby setting themselves and
EDITORIAL 569
the house afire. Today very little insecurity is felt because of lighting equipment, and very little time is spent polishing globes and lighting attachments. Most of our daily duty in this respect consists of touching a button, which immediately floods the room with light.
The apparatus of the kitchen, consisting of gas and electric stoves, makes it possible to work quickly and with a minimum of heat in the summer time. Also such devices as percolators, waffle irons, chafing dishes, etc., add to the convenience of the kitchen. So much for time saving devices in the home.
Yet other devices are found in the home, which are the products of science, not purely utilitarian in character. Many women today wash their dishes while they listen to a solo from Caruso, Alma Gluck, or Galli-Curci. Women sit in their homes and hear sermons preached in San Francisco and addresses delivered to culture societies in Denver. The campaign of this season has been to a surprising extent conducted by means of the radio. Yet, while the phonograph and the radio furnish the home in many instances with the cultural products of our time, it is doubted if anything has really brought more pleasure into the lives of the people of today than the motor car or automobile. Through this most pleasing asset, people from this and many other states yearly visit Bryce, Little Zion, the Grand Canyon of the Colorado, Cedar Breaks, American Fork Canyon, Cottonwood Canyon, Ogden and Logan Canyons, and other canyons that prove most enchanting to lovers of nature.
All these things are the products of science, and they have practically revolutionized the lives of tens of thousands of people. We may not know what the concrete elements of that new heaven, towards which we are all looking, may be, but all of us are certainly reasonably familiar with the things that have combined to make for us a new earth. For these things we should be duly grateful, and while we thank the Lord for the harvest of the year and praise Him for all blessings received, we should not be unmindful that every good and perfect gift cometh from above, and that he has inspired and led men to ferret out the mysteries of the universe, so that they have come into possession of knowledge that has made it possible for them to harness the forces of nature and bring to us devices of untold value that enrich our lives.
The Elizabethan dramatists were fond of having their characters say that they would "put a girdle 'round about the earth in forty minutes." Shakespeare was not the originator of that expression. He put into Puck's mouth the thing that had been said by his predecessors. In all probability those people had but a vague notion of the thing they talked of, yet that which they dreamed the moderns have realized; for, through the aid of sci-
570 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
ence, we of this latter day have in a variety of ways put a girdle "round about the earth in forty minutes."
Conference of Utah Public Health Association
Utah's need of a sanitorium for tubercular persons, was the leading topic of discussion in the seventh annual conference of the Utah Public Health Association, held in Salt Lake City, September 24, 1924. Elder George Albert Smith, chairman of the State Sanitorium Committee spoke on steps looking toward the establishment of such an institution. Dr. John A. Widtsoe presided over the conference. Mr. Frank B. Cook, president of the Salt Lake Chamber of Commerce and Commercial Club, gave the address of welcome. The response was given by Mrs. Clarissa S. Williams, general president of the National Woman's Relief Society. Congressman Don B. Colton, Dr. George W. Middleton, Miss A. A. Buffington, secretary of the Charity Organization Society of Salt Lake City; Mrs. E. O. Wattis, president of the State Federation of Women's Clubs; Dr. E. G. Gowans, Dr. T. B. Beatty, Dr. F. E. Murry, U. S. Bureau of Animal Industry, were among the speakers. In another part of this issue of the Magazine will be found the addresses of Mrs. Clarissa S. Williams and Miss A. A. Buffington.
An Appreciation
By Edith Ivins Lamoreaux
It was the good fortune recently of the officers and members in one stake of Zion to listen to our beloved poet and apostle, Elder Orson F. Whitney give an inspirational talk on literature at a Relief Society stake conference. Though for illustration suited to the occasion, Elder Whitney called attention to many of the poets as prophets—men inspired of God, the reference to the works of James Russell Lowell was most applicable to our recent lessons, and was greatly appreciated by those present.
Most aptly did he portray to us the idea, as expressed by Shakespeare:
"There is a divinity that shapes our ends Rough-hew them, how we will."
Two of Lowell's poems, "A Glance Behind the Curtain," and "Columbus," according to Elder Whitney, open this vision vividly before us. The former is a "glance" into the inner life of the great English Commoner, Oliver Cromwell, the story of whose
AN APPRECIATION 571
rise to power in England we all remember. His staunch co-laborer and friend, John Hampden, also a prominent figure in the dethronement of England's King, Charles I, realizing the dangers awaiting them both, through political and religious intrigue among their followers, suggests a means of escape, with future prospects of safety and freedom, by flight to America in these words:
"O Cromwell, we are fallen on evil times!
"Therefore, let us seek out that savage clime where men as yet Are free; there sleeps the vessel on the tide, Her languid canvas drooping for the wind.
"All things are fitly cared for, and the Lord Will watch as kindly o'er the exodus Of us, his servants, now as in old time."
Standing on the pier, where vessels soon bound for America lay anchored in the harbor of the Thames, the temptation was as strong in Cromwell as in Hampden. Suddenly as if upon the blue sky he saw his doom portrayed as did Beltshazzer before the fall of Babylon, Cromwell made reply:
"Hampden, a moment since my purpose was to fly with thee, For I will call it flight, nor flatter it with any Smoother name— But something in me bids me not to go. And I am one thou knowest, who unmoved By what the weak deem omens, yet give heed And reverence due, to whatsoe'er my soul Whispers of warning to the inner ear."
And farther on:
"We learn our own souls more, tossing for an hour Upon this huge and ever-vexed sea, Of human thought, where kingdoms go to wreck Like fragile bubbles yonder in the stream, Than in a cycle of New England sloth, Broke only by a petty Indian War."
And also:
"No man is born into the world whose work Is not born with him! There is always work And tools to work withal, for those who will; And blessed are the horny hands of toil!"
Mothers in Israel, do we believe this latter doctrine of Cromwell's as portrayed by Lowell? Are we endeavoring to teach it to our children;
572 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
As Book of Mormon students we concede our belief in the divine mission and guidance of Columbus, in the discovery of America, the promised land. But personally, I needed the eloquent touch of Elder Whitney's magic wand to make me appreciate the human side of this great character, who by working out God's will made possible so much of peace and happiness for us—the chosen seed of Israel—the Latter-day Saints here in this land of the free.
Oh! The agony that must have filled his soul on ship board, on that memorable night when his crew had mutinied, threatening that if land was not in sight next day, they would throw him overboard into the sea! Alone with God and the stars he says:
"Oh Faith! If thou art strong, thine opposite Is mighty also, and the dull fool's sneer Hath oftimes shot chill palsy through the arm, Just lifted to achieve its crowning deed."
Like Cromwell he had moments of temptation to give up. He says:
"I might turn back to other destinies, For one sincere key opes all Fortune's doors; But whoso answers not God's earliest call Forfeits or dulls that faculty supreme Of lying open to his genius, Which makes the wise heart certain of its needs."
And again he says:
"Here am I; for what end God knows, not I; Westward still points the inexorable soul! Here am I, with no friend but the sad sea, The beating heart of this great enterprise, Which, without me, would stiffen in swift death."
We know the story of his triumph. How when the ship's captain came to him each hour, with the query, "What shall I say to these thy mutinous men," his only answer was "Sail on! Sail on!" How land appeared in answer to his prayer; and that his first thought upon setting foot on soil was to kneel in thanksgiving to Him who helped him reach his goal.
Thus I might go on—but in closing let me give these lines from Lowell most applicable to us all:
"Life is a sheet of paper white, Whereon each of us may write His little word, and then comes night. Greatly begin! Though thou have time But for a line, be that sublime! Not failure, but low aim is crime."
A Thanksgiving Lesson
By A. E. Winship
This article, A Thanksgiving Lesson, was inspired by a visit of Dr. A. E. Winship to the Sunday schools of the city of Ogden. The people in that city will have some idea of the time when the article was written, from the fact that Dr. Winship states that Ogden was then a city of less than 20,000 inhabitants.
It was the Sunday before Thanksgiving; a cold, raw, dismal November Sunday in an unattractive hotel in a city of less than 20,000 inhabitants, a city in which I had no comrades. There was really nothing that gave me a thanksgiving spirit.
The only thing that interested me was the statement by some stranger, sometime before, that there was a remarkable Sunday school in that city, and though I had not thought of a Sunday school as being especially attractive on such a day, I went uninvited and was there unrecognized.
I was short on appreciation of Sunday schools, I had played in hard luck on Sunday school attractions and in general had heard no praises sung on them, so that the fact that anybody had spoken in emphatic praise of any Sunday school was in itself alluring.
The first classroom I entered, a primary class, captivated me at once, and as no one seemed to know I was there, I stayed with an interest increasing in geometrical ratio. I was amazed that the lesson period lasted fifty minutes instead of the traditional twenty minutes. The children, every one of them, were as interested as I was, and could demonstrate their interest as I could not.
It at once developed that there had been two previous lessons on Thanksgiving, an approach to the real Sunday-before-Thanksgiving, and more than ten minutes was devoted to the review of each of those lessons, and every child knew all about both lessons, so that the reviews went off exuberantly.
The first lesson, as an approach to this lesson, had dwelt upon the way water was provided in their homes and in the country homes they had visited. Some homes get water from a well, get the water from the well in buckets. Some get water from pumps. Some wells and pumps are a long distance from the house. Sometimes women have to go for the water in all kinds of weather. None of their homes in the city had wells or pumps, few of them could have wells or pumps because the houses were too close together and
574 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
some of them lived in apartment houses where there were several families. They got water from a faucet. They could get hot water from a faucet. They were thankful for plumbers who could put in pipes and faucets; thankful to the city water department. They saw all sorts of causes for thanksgiving.
The second lesson, which was reviewed enthusiastically, gave cause for thanksgiving for the city government that provided the city water department, for the taxpayers who paid for all this, for the Legislature that provided the big reservoir that supplied the water for that city and several other places. They knew who was in the city government from that part of the city, who was in the Legislature from that city, and saw a lot of cause they had for thanksgiving.
With these reviewed lessons out of the way, the work of the Sunday-before-Thanksgiving began. Where does the reservoir get its water? From the river. Where does the river get its water? From the hills. Where do the hills get the water? From the rain. Where does the rain get water? From the clouds. Where do the clouds get water? This required a lot of explaining by the teacher about evaporation, and the way the atmosphere gets its moisture from the earth. The children had been getting ready for this. The children saw what wonderful natural laws there were, and were thankful for the laws of nature as they had been for the plumber, the city water department, the city government and the legislature.
Then she told them about the Bible, what a wonderful book it is, and had them learn and recite the text from the Old Testament, "Unto the place from whence the rivers come, thither they return again." Long before men knew anything about water works, or the laws of nature, the Lord had a man say that "Unto the place from whence the rivers come, thither they return again." The Lord is really the giver of all these gifts of water to the clouds, water for the rain, water for the rivers, water for the reservoirs, water for water pipes, water for the faucets. How many things we have to thank the Lord for!
It was a wonderful Thanksgiving service for those children. It is just as vivid to me today as it was on that stormy Sunday before Thanksgiving several years ago.
Response
By Clarissa S. Williams
Remarks Before the Utah Public Health Association September 24, 1924
Acknowledging the cordial welcome extended by Mr. Cook, president of the Commercial Club, and in behalf of the Utah Public Health Association, I desire to express our appreciation of the kind words spoken. This convention is provided for by the constitution and bylaws of the Utah Public Health Association, which require that it shall be held between September 15 and October 15 of each year. This is the day also when new directors are elected. According to the constitution, the officers may be elected at the close of this convention or within the next fifteen days.
Our board of directors is composed of seventy-two men and women from all parts of the state, those who are known in their communities to be interested in all health and social questions. The terms of the directors are for four years, and one-fourth are elected annually. Like all voluntary organizations, it is non-sectarian and non-political.
The principal objects of its organization are briefly set out in the constitution:
First: Dissemination of knowledge concerning the causes and methods of prevention of communicable diseases, including tuberculosis.
Second: Investigation of the prevalence of such diseases in the state of Utah and the collecting and publishing of useful information.
575
Third: Securing of proper legislation to promote the relief and control of such diseases.
Fourth: Encouragement of adequate provision for consumptives and others who may be in need of institutional care for preventable disease, by the establishment of sanatoria dispensaries and otherwise.
There is no other organization in the state, excepting the Utah Public Health Association, which is devoting its activities to the prevention and cure of tuberculosis, that dread disease which, since 1916, has caused the death of 1,500 people in our state. By clinics, nurses, demonstrations, lectures, literature, and correspondence, it has disseminated information to all parts of Utah, and the results of its incessant activities is seen in the gradual decrease in our death rate from tuberculosis.
The Association receives no financial aid from the public treasury. Its resources come exclusively from the sale of the
576 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
little penny Christmas Seal, which is sold every year between Thanksgiving Day and Christmas Eve. It is the designated agent of the National Tuberculosis Association, by contract executed between the two organizations, which provides the Utah Public Health Association shall not be under the direction or control of any state or local government agency, and that its funds shall be spent for educational work only.
While it is true that the Christmas seal sale is the only method employed for raising funds to carry on the work of the Association, yet there is a deeper, more significant meaning to the sale than mere money raising. Christmas seals have come to be universally recognized as the advertisement for the health campaign. One lone, little Christmas seal, wherever it is seen, means victory over one of the deadliest enemies of mankind. It is what the flag means on the firing line—hope, encouragement, safety for the dear ones at home, and success—victory! Whoever buys a Christmas seal is taking active part in the universal fight to conquer disease. And whoever buys a Christmas seal buys an interest in that fight. Purchase of one of those penny stickers arouses a person's interest in the anti-disease campaign. The second time that he sees a seal or buys one, that interest is strengthened. By constant repetition it is impressed on his mind that that dread disease, tuberculosis, is both preventable and curable, that there is an organization within the state which disseminates information on how to prevent it and how to cure it. Eventually he gains that information and it becomes a part of his every day life. In such fashion the message of the Utah Public Health Association is spread into every home in the state. We could not function without the Christmas seals; and, consequently, as the territory widens which the seals expand, the efficiency of the Association increases.
Tuberculosis: a Social Disease
Remarks before the Utah Public Health Association by Miss Adaline A. Buffington, General Secretary, Charity Organization Society, Salt Lake City, September 24, 1924.
The organization with which I am connected, is concerned primarily with helping families in trouble regain their independence, so that they do not need to ask anyone for assistance. In this work we find a particularly difficult problem in tuberculosis. It is peculiarly a social disease on account of its very nature. It is not an illness that one recovers from quickly or easily. It is long-drawn out. It is very infectious to those with whom the patient comes in contact. The discharge from the nose and throat carries the disease to others, and unless the patient is very careful, he infects those around him. This is peculiarly true of children, who take it much more readily than grown people. Well-confirmed statistics show us that to one death from tuberculosis, we have seven active cases, and to one case of tuberculosis, we have nine contact cases; that is, nine people who catch it from one sick person.
Again, tuberculosis is a specially difficult problem because it is fostered by dark houses, by damp and ill-ventilated houses, by over-crowded rooms and houses. Poor people, unable to pay their rent, take in boarders, and I noticed that during an investigation made by our Utah Public Health Association in one county, several instances were found where two rooms housed twenty people. I think we do not have such crowded conditions in Salt Lake, although we have met them sometimes in the Mexican quarters where a number of men, living without their families crowd together in a small space.
Again, tuberculosis is fostered by poor food, not enough food, wrong food, ill-cooked food, such as we often meet with in the homes where the mother or housewife is ignorant or is a young person with no knowledge of cooking and home-making.
Tuberculosis is fostered also by the fatigue resulting from over-work, or work under poor conditions. There are some industries which predispose the workers to tuberculosis such as the smelters, where there is a great deal of dust, or factories where there is much lint. There is also a miner's consumption. Fortunately, this does not appear to be as infectious as the ordinary type.
Altogether, conditions that make for poverty also make for tuberculosis as well as other illnesses. Illness of various kinds is one of our most common causes of destitution. Illness leads to poverty, and poverty leads to illness, and it becomes a vicious
578 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
circle. In the group of illnesses tuberculosis takes a leading part. I have heard Mr. Bailey Burnitt, of the New York Association for improving the condition of the poor, say that 33% of all relief work in New York City was in families where there was tuberculosis; also that 41% of all relief work among widows was for those whose husbands died from tuberculosis. We think that the proportion is not so large in Utah or Salt Lake City, but we have enough of it to make us sit up and take notice and recognize it as a problem to be dealt with; and we are not dealing with it successfully at the present time.
The statistics in Salt Lake City show us that in the past seven years we had 570 deaths from that disease. And that does not count the contact cases or those who have lived for a little time in the state, but who did not die here.
Now, in handling this disease as a social problem, we workers have a particularly hard time in Utah because of the lack of resources. Those of us who have worked in other states where they have resources, know that it is almost impossible to educate a tuberculosis patient how to take care of himself so that he will not be a menace to others without having him trained in an institution for the care of the disease. This is particularly necessary in the instance of advanced tubercular patients because they are of the most menace to those around them. In an incipient case we still have to rely largely on educating the patient to effect a cure for himself. He must be taught how to sleep, how to eat, and how to live in order to get well, and in order to save those around him.
Therefore, we need, as well as tubercular sanatoria of state or county, public health nurses to instruct families and patients; tuberculosis clinics where experienced doctors are available to examine patients in all stages of the disease, and where the patients can return at intervals for re-examinations. We need an active public opinion which is usually fostered by a Public Health Association, or Tuberculosis Association, to make the patients want to do the proper thing to get well and to educate the public so that, for instance, the doctors in the community will report their tuberculosis cases. In Salt Lake City, although we have a law for that purpose, many of our physicians do not report their cases, and we therefore do not know how prevalent the disease is, except as we reckon it from the death statistics.
Where there is an active public opinion which provides sanatoria, and clinics, and public health nurses, as well as a public health association, we frequently have tuberculosis camps in the summer, and tuberculosis preventorium for children, where children in the secondary stages of the disease (that of enlarged glands) can be sent to be built up, so that they will stand less chance of coming down with the lung variety. We have also in some of the eastern states excellent housing laws which prohibit the existence of dark rooms and damp rooms, and poorly ventilated rooms. All of these re-
TUBERCULOSIS: A SOCIAL DISEASE 579
sources then and active public opinion, help the social worker very much in his task of rehabilitating, or putting on their feet a family in which the disease is found.
Now in Salt Lake City of all the resources mentioned, we have just two. We have an active Public Health Association and we have twenty beds at the County Hospital for tuberculosis cases for the entire state. It is true that we have general clinics where we can obtain examinations for tuberculosis patients, but we have no regular tuberculosis clinic with a staff of expert physicians available. This lack of resources makes the handling of such cases very difficult for us.
For instance, a family that has given all the social agencies a great deal of trouble is one where there is a man, a wife and two small children. They came here because the woman's mother lived here. They had been wandering from place to place in an automobile, earning a very scanty livelihood and trying to get the man of the family well. He had an advanced case of tuberculosis and took no care of himself or his family. People gave to them liberally in Salt Lake City, as it was such a pitiful case. After a great deal of persuasion we got the man to the County Hospital. But we could not keep him there. He returned to his wife and children, and the last we knew they had started out again on their pilgrimage in an automobile, given by some benevolent person, to spread the disease from place to place.
Another instance, and a pitiful one, was that of a man in the thirties who had a good trade, a wife, and one child, but who broke down twice in the course of three years without being able to find out what was wrong with him. When he came to us and we got a thorough examination, he had an advanced case of the disease. He consented to go the hospital through the press of family circumstances, as his wife could not support him and the boy and make payments on the house which they were buying. When he had the necessary care she rented the house, and got work for herself, which solved the family difficulty. The man, however, is not likely to recover because he did not find out in time what was wrong with him.
The only instance in a year where we have had any success at all in dealing with these cases, was one family where there were eight children. Fortunately, we were called into the situation when the man in the family was sick but did not know what was wrong. He was being treated by an herb doctor for whom he had a great attachment. After a great deal of persuasion and talking we finally got him examined at one of the clinics, with the result that he was pronounced an incipient case of tuberculosis. We used the art of persuasion and called in one of the Board of Health nurses to our assistance. Fortunately, there was a sleeping porch on the house, and between ourselves and the nurse, we
580 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
made him eat the necessary food and sleep on the porch. He made rapid progress inside of a few months, the Charity Organization Society and the County taking care of his family meantime, and the last we knew he had gone back to his work on the railroad and had passed a physical examination successfully. Of course, it remains to be seen whether he will stand up under the heavier work.
I have not mentioned the number of wandering cases that go through Utah. Hardly a day goes by but what some man suffering from tuberculosis comes into my office. Recently we had a distressing case of a young boy whose parents had both been killed in the Mexican revolution, but who had come to this country seven years ago and had lived in California with some one connected with the Mexican consulate until he began to have hemorrhages. The people had been so good to him that he said he did not want to impose upon them, so he ran away some three or four months ago. He wandered from state to state, becoming more and more destitute, and finally stopped here. He was going he knew not where, except that he wanted to go to a warmer climate where he would be better. We took care of him temporarily and had him examined. There are so many of these patients wandering through the West that it seems to me that the West will have to make some special provision for them regardless of what the East is doing, for they certainly carry the disease every place they go and do no good to themselves or to anyone else. What is to become of this boy, for instance; without home, without friends, without medical care, who belongs nowhere, so that he cannot claim care anywhere, even if it was available?
I have not spoken of the economic loss of these cases to the community, but the figures are startling. Each death is reckoned by the insurance companies, whom we consider reliable, as amounting to a loss of $7,725. The economic loss to the United States in one year from this disease alone is reckoned at $1,235,000,000. Taking the figures we have of Salt Lake City, 570 deaths in seven years cost us the startling sum of $4,403,250. This does not take into account the cost of the care of the ill person to the community, or the heart-ache and strain upon the family, or the burden of caring for the family of the consumptive after his death, and the care of sick children or wife who had been infected.
The only remedy for the whole difficulty seems to me to lie in education. We need to educate our public to the fact that we have the disease in our midst, that it is a problem which we must solve, and that to solve it we need resources. We need a state sanatorium very badly indeed. That should be the first resource that we should work for. After we get that, we can apply our-
TUBERCULOSIS: A SOCIAL DISEASE 581
selves to getting other things such as clinics, public health nurses, etc. When we have the resources our task is not ended. We must keep on educating the public to use the resources; educating sick people to go to sanatoria and clinics, and to take care of themselves so that they will not infect their families. Dr. Thomas Green who was here recently in connection with the Red Cross Regional Conference said that civilization was a "race between catastrophe and education." By all means let us have education.
Out Door Sleeping
Unfortunately most people cannot live out of doors all of the time, and many are so situated that they cannot even secure ventilation, granted that they want it. But there is one important part of the twenty-four hours when most people can completely control their own air supply. This is at night. We spend a third of our lives in bed. Most of us live such confined lives during the day; then we should all the more avail ourselves of our opportunities to practice air hygiene at night.
It is the universal testimony of those who have slept out-of-doors that the best ventilated sleeping-room is far inferior in healthfulness to an outdoor sleeping-porch, open tent, or window tent (large enough to include the whole bed.)
For generations, outdoor sleeping has occasionally been used as a health measure in certain favorable climate and seasons. But only in the last two decades has it been used in ordinary climates and all the year round. Dr. Millet, a Brockton physician, began some years ago to prescribe outdoor sleeping for some shoe-factory workmen who were suffering from tuberculosis. As a consequence, in spite of their unsanitary working-places, (where they still continued to work while being treated for tuberculosis), they often conquered the disease in a few months. It was largely this experience which led to the general adoption, irrespective of climate, of outdoor sleeping for the treatment of tuberculosis. The practice has since been introduced for nervous troubles and for other diseases, including pneumonia. Lately the value of outdoor sleeping for well persons of all classes, infants and children as well as adults, has come to be widely recognized. Outdoor sleeping increases the power to resist disease, and greatly promotes physical vigor, endurance, and working power.
—From "How to Live." Fisher and Fisk.
Notes from the Field
By Amy Brown Lyman
European Mission
Mrs. Eliza W. Tadje, president of the Relief Society work in the Swiss and German mission, writes to the General Board as follows:
"I am very happy to report the progress of the Basel branch Relief Society of this mission, and I believe we have every reason to be proud of this organization because of the wonderful work
BASEL BRANCH RELIEF SOCIETY OF THE SWISS AND GERMAN MISSION
that is being done. The society is fully organized with Minna Seyfarth as president, and Luise Zimmer and Mathilde Weissenberger, first and second counselors respectively; Else Arm, secretary-treasurer; Helene Dreesen, organist, and Marie Haas, chorister. Sister Seyfarth with her associates have the love and respect of all members and friends of the organization and are working harmoniously together.
"The lessons as outlined in the Relief Society Magazine are rather difficult for our new members and friends. Sister Emma Ray McKay has selected a number of lessons most suitable for us from the various Relief Society courses of study, which have been translated into the German language, and are now being used throughout the Swiss and German mission. These lessons are mostly on social service and theology, and it is something
NOTES FROM THE FIELD 583
that our Saints haven't had in late years, if at all. According to reports recently received from the various branches the class work is now very successful.
"It is our aim to reach the hearts of all Latter-day Saints and to impress upon their souls the necessity of keeping the Lord's commandments. By doing so our spirits become richer and our influence greater. We are also putting forth an effort to impress these good people with the necessity of setting good examples before the world, and I believe we are meeting with appreciable success. Relief Society women here are unselfish and have the real spirit of the work. During the last year they have not only worked for their own branch but when conditions in Germany were not the best, this society has done its bit in relieving the suffering of the poverty stricken Saints.
"Personally, I am indeed grateful to my heavenly Father for the privilege of being in the mission field together with my husband. I have learned to love the Saints and our dear missionaries who are laboring so diligently to spread the gospel message. God bless the parents of these elders; their loved ones have reason to rejoice because of the wonderful work they are accomplishing."
South African Mission
Mrs. Magdalen Sessions, president of the Relief Society work of the South African mission, sends the following very interesting letter with her reports:
"Having just returned from a very interesting trip throughout the mission, I thought you would be pleased to know that the Relief Society work in South Africa is steadfastly continuing. I visited three of the four organizations which were begun three years ago, Mowbray, Kimberley, and Johannesburg, and in each of these cities the meetings are held regularly and the work of the organization is being felt and appreciated in the branches. While I was at Johannesburg the Relief Society held a bazaar which we considered very successful. The proceeds from the sale of work amounted to $200, of which $150 was given to the building fund of the new Johannesburg chapel. The women are planning another sale to be held in about six months, for the same purpose. The sisters at Kimberley and Mowbray also contributed work and articles for the bazaar and are all interested in the building of the new church. The little organization in Mowbray also gave a successful bazaar recently which enabled them to contribute $50 towards the new Johannesburg chapel. I think the value received from their effort was the harmonious work that was done by the sisters, as well as the amount of work and the funds raised, for much was learned along the lines of cooperation as well as sewing, etc. The whole neighborhood surprised 584 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE the Relief Society by their willingness to patronize the bazaar, and they are now asking for another. As you look at our reports I am sure our organizations will seem very small to you, but they are a beginning, and have continued steadily now for two years. Our report of average attendance does not include visitors, some of whom take an active part, but do not wish to be enrolled. One thing that keeps our organizations small is that as soon as possible Saints leave for America. However, the Relief Societies are appreciated by the various branches for they look after the poor and also help out financially. I have tried to adapt the Magazine lessons to our conditions but I find it very hard as all here are so very new in the gospel; we have been very successful, however, with the history of the Church, and lessons of that order which do not need so much previous information. Where necessary, the elders conduct the lessons. Since the elders have been re-established at Port Elizabeth, they have been so successful in making converts and friends. That we thought it the right time or organize the Relief Society there, for we have found that the united efforts of the sisters add much to the strength of any branch. The president, Mrs. Edward Peek, and her co-workers, are all energetic and progressive women and I hope that we shall have a live and useful organization. Most of them are new members of the Church, and the elders will conduct the class work for a while. The lesson meetings will alternate with sewing classes. They have an efficient needlewoman as instructor in sewing. ' "Incidentally, we enjoyed a very pleasant experience while away. I preceded President Sessions to: Johannesburg, in order to get better acquainted with the sisters and to help with the bazaar. President Sessions came up in time for conference, and after our work was finished Dr. And Mrs. Williams, who are friends of ours from Cape Town, met us at Johannesburg and we made the return journey to Cape Town in their motor car—a distance of two thousand miles. We visited the native territory and tribes of the Zulus, Pondos, Fingos, and the Red Kaffirs. Every minute was extremely interesting and the trip was a rare opportunity for there is no way of seeing the people in their native state except by motor. We visited their huts, ate meals out of their community pots, and camped among them. European visitors are so rare that many of the children screamed with fright and ran for shelter. "It is a great inspiration to receive the Magazine and communications from the General Board. I cannot tell you how happy I shall be to be back in Zion and to be in direct touch with the Church at home. It only takes such an opportunity of comparison as I have had, to make me perfectly sure that those NOTES FROM THE FIELD 585 directing the work of the Church are inspired of the Lord. We are enjoying our work here and find much in Africa to keep us busy and therefore happy." Bear River Stake: For the past three years the Relief Societies of the Bear River stake have been holding district conferences throughout the stake. They have just completed these group conferences for the year 1924. They feel that these meetings are probably the most pleasant and profitable ones of the year. There are three and four wards in each conference, and by changing the place of meeting each year, all the wards are given an opportunity to entertain visiting societies. It has been the means of getting better acquainted and of promoting harmony and greater friendship among the Relief Society women. The exchanging of ideas and working plans, and the hearing of each other's problems and conditions, have been helpful to all. The social hour following the meetings has been most enjoyable. The meetings have been attended by the stake officers and most of the board members, and have been favored with the presence of bishops and other brethren, all of which has been greatly appreciated. Maternity bundles have been placed in every ward Relief Society, and all are provided with an enameled tin box that may be kept securely locked, away from dust or other contamination. Twin Falls Stake: The Twin Falls stake Relief Society board entertained the ward officers, class leaders and teachers at the home of President Kate Kirkham, late in July. About sixty people were present. Each organization contributed not less than fifteen minutes of entertainment. Refreshments were served and all enjoyed a sociable time together. Fremont Stake In order to send a special delegation to April conference, the stake board of Fremont stake called on the wards to help and very excellent meals were served in the basement of the tabernacle during stake conference Saturday and Sunday, March 22 and 23. These meals were served cafeteria style, at five and ten cents per dish. Each ward responded cheerfully and the neat sum of $89.77 was netted. The board also co-operated with the picture show by advertising and selling tickets for a good picture, and an additional sum of $54.79 was netted. On July 28 and 29, a very successful health conference was held in Fremont stake under the auspices of the Bureau of Child Hygiene of the state of Idaho. The Social Service department of the stake Relief Society took the lead in securing the clinic for 586 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE the county. All of the women's clubs and organizations of Rexburg and vicinity were called in to help put over the advertising, registration, and other preparation for the clinic. About twentyfour mothers and babies were examined by Dr. F. W. Almond, director of Bureau of Child Hygiene, and Miss Robinson, the nurse. It is felt that much good was accomplished by bringing these people to the community. A number of women have expressed themselves as being thankful for the Sheppard-Towner provision, which has made it possible, financially, for the women — competent advice and help in caring for mothers and abies. Recently the stake board entertained the local officers at a party in the basement of the tabernacle. President Lavina Walker presided at the meeting. A good program was given, consisting of appropriate songs, readings and musical numbers by members of the board. One interesting feature was the original song in which some of the known and unknown characteristics and abilities of each board member were brought to light. A delicious luncheon was served to ninety-eight officers, ten board members, and six special guests, including James Blake of the stake presidency. During the luncheon, toasts were given by board members and heartily responded to by local officers. All joined in the "get-acquainted" games and community singing and just before the close of the party a motion was put by local officers and carried that in the near future the local officers entertain the stake board members. An excellent spirit prevailed throughout the entire entertainment and no doubt much good will result from this effort. Deseret Stake The Deseret stake Relief Society was reorganized June 22, 1924. Mrs. Alice L. Gardner who has presided so ably over the Relief Society work for a number of years, was released on account of moving from the stake, and Mrs. Martha C. Adams was appointed president. Mrs. Gardner was one of the most capable and enthusiastic members of the social service class held at the Brigham Young University during the summer of 1920, when, for six weeks she, with the other members of the class, devoted her time exclusively to the study of welfare work. After her appointment as president, Mrs. Gardner made a careful survey of conditions and needs in her stake and with her capable assistants, set about to maintain all the old standards and to make improvements wherever possible. She has been most successful in her labors and her removal from Deseret stake is a distinct loss to the Relief Society. It is hoped that in her new home in Colorado Mrs. Gardner will at once identify herself with Relief Society work and be as helpful there as she was in Utah. NOTES FROM THE FIELD 587 The new officers of the stake are: president, Mrs. Martha C. Adams; counselors, Mrs. Eliza S. Cottrell and Mrs. Jene L. Gardner; secretary-treasurer, Mrs. Lillie E. Wood. Nature's Alchemy Linda S. Fletcher Art thou worthy, Child of Earthland, To behold the dewey wonder, Pearl and rose of early dawning? Or the golden flood of glory On the waiting earth descending, As the day again commences? Art thou worthy of the mountains Tow'ring 'round thee, ever beck'ning Thee to climb, until thy spirit And its earthly tabernacle Fuse to make a soul immortal? Do the crystalline flecks of brilliance, Scintillating in the heavens, Move thy soul to adoration, Teach it to be beautiful, patient? Do the diamond drops of lakelet, Sun-kissed to a shining marvel, Wake a song of joy within thee, Teaching thee to sing the praises Of the God of Love, Creator? Art thou worthy to behold the Close of day, when western heavens Flame with amethyst and amber, And a paean of thanksgiving, Beauty rouses in thy being? If unworthy— All the sublime Magic Nature has to offer, For the soul-refining process, Thou, blind clay, with eyes unseeing, Beholdst, but doth partake not of, Thy radiant spirit, earthy grows; Knows. No progression, But if worthy, Alt thy vision is unclouded, Thou beholdst God made manifest in nature; And thy eager spirit, yearning heavenward. Transmutes thy. Mortal part,— And it becomes immortal. Guide Lessons for January LESSON I  (Third Week in January) Theology and Testimony THE PARABLES OF THE SAvior (Continued) The Good Samaritan—Luke 10:30-35, "And Jesus answering said, A certain man went down from Jerusalem to Jericho, and fell among thieves, which stripped him of his raiment, and wounded him, and departed, leaving him half dead. "And by chance there came down a certain priest that way: and when he saw him, he passed by on the other side. "And likewise a Levite, when he was at the place, came and looked on him, and passed by on the other side. "But a certain Samaritan, as he journeyed, came where he was: and when he saw him, he had compassion on him, "And he went to him, and bound up his wounds, pouring in oil and wine, and set him on his own beast, and brought him to an inn, and took care of him. "And on the morrow when he departed, he took out two pence, and gave them to the host, and said unto him, Take care of him; and whatsoever thou spendest more, when I come again, I will repay thee." Comment. The Occasion:—This parable was spoken in answer to a question by a person who was present at a meeting more as a spy. Than an investigator. He was a lawyer or one learned in the laws by which the Jews were governed; i.e., the Law of Moses. This man put the greatest question of life, "What shall I do to be saved?' The Master answered with a double question: "What is written in the law? How readest thou then?" The lawyer gave evidence of an intimate knowledge of the scriptures by quoting correctly the two great laws of eternal life. Laws that are eternal; laws that cannot be disregarded, on penalty of losing the way to heaven: "Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, and with all thy soul, and with all thy strength, and with all thy mind; and thy neighbor as thyself." The Savior pronounced the answer given by the lawyer as correct: "Thou hast answered right. This do, and thou shalt have. Eternal life." Not merely exist, but live. Live forever the life GUIDE LESSONS FOR JANUARY. 589 of a lover of the Lord and of our fellowmen. Being at once and forever like Peter who said, "Lord, thou knowest I love thee," and like Abou Ben Adam who said, "Write me as one who loves his fellowmen." The lawyer no doubt was somewhat embarrassed by the thought of his neglect in keeping the second great law of eternal-life, and sought for some way. To escape the sting of his conscience. Or, possibly, he had no conscience in that particular and was expecting to puzzle the great Teacher. At all events he put the question, "Who is my neighbor?" Then came the beautiful story with its setting on the banditinfested highway connecting Jerusalem and Jericho. On this road Jesus places a Jew who "fell among thieves." He is robbed, beaten, and left helpless. Then comes a priest, a Jew, an ecclesiastical official, a church brother to the victim. He sees the wounded man at a distance but does not trust himself to come too near to the unfortunate one. The priest seems to wish to avoid knowing who the sufferer is and to avoid also being known to him. Therefore, this priest passed on. Then from the same direction came a Levite, an heir to the Priesthood, who followed in the heartless way of the priest, leaving the "half dead" man to the mercy of a tropical sun on a desert highway. Now comes a Samaritan, one upon whom a Jew would spit, one of the "dogs" from Samaria, a man who would have no social dealings with a Jew. But here was a man in distress, helpless and suffering. The Samaritan did not ask himself who the sufferer was, it was enough to know that the waylaid traveler needed help, and this Samaritan put into operation the second great law which is like unto the first one. He pours oil into the wounds and wine into the mouth of the sufferer; places him in the saddle, takes him to a hotel and pays for his care until he should recover. At the end of the story the Master asked the lawyer: "Which of these three was neighbor unto him that fell among thieves?" The answer came, "He that showed mercy on him." A neighbor then, is one who shows mercy; one who will go further than paying debts; one who will treat a fellowman as he himself would like to be treated. And the other neighbor, the person needing help, is the one whose misfortune can be made a stairway to heaven or a pathway into the pit. The effectiveness of this parable in teaching who one's neighbor is, and what it means to be a neighbor, is marvelous. Had he simply told them that one's neighbor is the person in need, and to be a neighbor means to do as you would be done by, they would have soon forgotten it. But they could not forget the good Samaritan. As the centuries have passed this character has remained as an illumination of Christian character. "The Good TS 590  RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Samaritan" means more and more to mankind as the ages roll by. The Good Samaritan has become too large for personal application. It reaches into community helpfulness, and now nations play the part of the Good Samaritan. When India is famine-stricken, food is given by other nations; not sold, but given. When Japan is broken by earthquakes, help is forthcoming from other nations.  The world is learning the lesson of the parable of the Good. Samaritan. The heart of mercy is growing larger and her arm longer, her hand more gentle. Just as fast and no faster than we become Good Samaritans can we make heaven. The Laborers in the Vineyard.—Matt. 20:1-16.  "For the kingdom of heaven is like unto a man that is an house-holder, which went out early in the morning to hire laborers into his vineyard. "And when he had agreed with the laborers for a penny a day, he sent them into his vineyard. "And he went out about the third hour, and saw others standing idle in the marketplace, "And. He said unto them: Go ye also into the vineyard, and whatsoever is right, I will give you. And they went their way. "Again he went out about the sixth and ninth hour, and did likewise. "And about the eleventh hour he went out, and found others standing idle, and saith unto them, Why stand ye here all the day idle? "They say unto him, Because no man hath hired us. He saith unto them, Go ye also into the vineyard; and whatsoever is right, that shall ye receive. "So when even was come, the lord of the vineyard saith unto his steward, Call the laborers, and give them their hire beginning 'from the last unto the first. "And when they came that were hired about the eleventh hour, they received every man a penny. "But when the first came, they supposed that they should have received more; and they likewise received each man a penny. "And when they had received it, they murmured against the good man of the house, "Saying, These last have wrought but one hour, and thou hast made them equal unto us, which have borne the burden and heat of the day. "But he answered one of them, and said, Friend, I do thee no wrong; didst not thou agree with me for a penny? "Take that thine is, and go thy way: I will give unto this last, even as unto thee. GUIDE LESSONS FOR JANUARY. 5am "Ts it not lawful for me to do what I will with mine own? Is thine eye evil, because I am good? "So the last shall be first, and the first last: for many are called but few chosen." Comment. The occasion of this parable was evidently. As explanation of what Jesus had said in answer to Peter's question recorded in the preceding chapter, verse twenty-seven. It seems that the statement concerning the first being last and the last being first was a mystery to the disciples. The paying of the last employees before the first might seem unjust but when we consider what the employer said to the unemployed at the eleventh hour, and the answer they gave to his question, it is clear that they would gladly have been at work all day. Their desire to work, was justification for paying them full wages, and their confidence in the employer as to the pay was something more than the early morning employees had manifested. The eleventh hour men did their best and trusted fully, while the first hour men wanted more than they bargained for. The husbandman was just to all, and merciful to those who were unfortunate in having to suffer enforced idleness—a calamity in any case. One of the greatest curses of the race is thinking of work as a curse. No work, no worlds to people; no work, no people to become like God. Before it was said, "It is not good for man to be alone," the Lord had given man employment—a bigger job than man could do alone, and in thus furnishing man with work it was declared that it is not good for man to be without work, In the parable the work-lovers were paid first and workhaters paid last. The lesson is taught that one hour of loving, trusting, faithful service is worth many hours of disliked, suspicious, time-serving work. How often it is seen that a new convert with spiritual fervor will get more spiritual growth in a year than others have attained in decades. And growth is the best of all compensations for labor. The Ten Virgins —Matt. 25:1-3. "Then shall the kingdom of heaven be likened unto ten virgins, which took their lamps, and went forth to meet the bridegroom. "And five of them were wise, and five were foolish. "They that were foolish took their lamps, and took no oil with them: "But the wise took oil in their vessels with their lamps. "While the bridegroom tarried, they all slumbered and slept. "And at midnight there was a cry made, Behold, the bridegroom cometh; go ye out to meet him. 592 - RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE "Then all those virgins arose, and trimmed their lamps. "And the foolish said unto the wise, Give us of your oil; for our lamps are gone out. "But the wise answered, saying, Not so; lest there be not enough for us and you: but go ye rather to them that sell and buy for yourselves, "And while they went to buy, the bridegroom came; and they that were ready went in with him to the marriage: and the door was shut. "Afterward came also the other virgins, saying, Lord, Lord, open to us. "But he answered and said, Verily I say unto you, I know you not." The Setting: of the Story. "The details of the parable before us, bao from a ceremony with which the Savior must have been familiar, will acquire a reality for us, if we can call to mind descriptions which have been given us by persons who have witnessed such ceremonies. The time is after the marriage has been concluded, and when the bridegroom, accompanied by his bride, is returning to his own house. It is at night, and the wedding-trains go forth; the bridegroom is surrounded by his kinsfolk and friends, while the bride is attended by her maidens, conducting her with pomp and ceremony. The gleam of the torches is seen and the ringing of merry shouts and laughter, the music of instruments, and the sound of nuptial melodies, fills the air. They come near the bridegroom's home, at the midnight hour, and then the loud shout goes up to heaven; there is a cry made, 'Behold the bridegroom cometh; go ye out to meet him." Then all the village folk arise, and go to meet him; and they that are ready go in with him to the feast, and the door is shut. A scene like this the Savior had often witnessed.". Comment. This parable was given as a part of an extended discourse on final rewards. Jesus had retired to the Mount of Olives and his disciples had sought him for information concerning the time of judgment—when this reckoning should come? And especially as to when he should come in glory. As to the last inquiry he declared that no man, nor the angels, could give the answer. (Matt. 24:36.) As to the hour of judgment, the moment of compensation, he indicates that the all important thing is not the time of the event but the preparation for it. Those, the unwise, the "put-offs," sought first to borrow oil. 'Borrowing is a habit of the indolent, they were told by the wise to go and buy, but time for effective purchase had passed. The GUIDE LESSONS FOR JANUARY 593 wedding procession marched on, entered the feast, and the doors were closed. The order of heaven forbids holding open doors of exaltation to delinquents. The bridegroom is Christ, the bride is his Church, and to be with them means something more than salvation, it means exaltation. The oil of the spiritual wedding lamps is the Spirit of the Lord within us, purity, prayer and painstaking service, is the price paid for this oil. And once again the Savior emphasizes the importance of keeping ready for the inevitable day of reckoning. Each virgin had a lamp. In this respect they were all equal and free to keep or not keep their lamps filled. This represents the possibility of everyone being saved in the kingdom of heaven. They all slept awaiting the call to meet the bridegroom, who would lead them into the wedding feast. They all awoke, some to the disappointment of unpreparedness, and some to a joyous consciousness of being ready. So will it be. At the end of our earthly life. So is it as we go through life, if we have oil in our-lamps we can light them when the call comes. To accept responsibility, to toil on when others grow tired, to have hope when others despair, to be comforted when others remain disconsolate, to know God and his Son Jesus Christ when others cry out, "There is no God and Jesus is but a man." Be it remembered that the Bridegroom of the kingdom of heaven is Jesus the Christ, and the bride is his Church. QUESTIONS AND PROBLEMS 1. What was the occasion for the giving of the parable known as "The Good Samaritan?" 2. Quote the answer that the lawyer gave to the first question asked by the Savior on that occasion. 3. In the colloquy between Jesus and the lawyer what evidence is there that Jesus was a careful student of the scriptures? 4. What is the great lesson taught by the parable of "The Good Samaritan?" 5. Show how the good Samaritan character has spread from persons to nations,. 6. Discuss this proposition: Eternal life cannot be inherited without Good Samaritan conduct. 7. Who is your neighbor and when are you a neighbor? 8. Correlate one of the Prophet Joseph Smith's favorite hymns. "A poor wayfaring man of grief," with the parable of "The Good Samaritan." 9. Compare the jealous greediness of the first-hour employees with the grateful appreciation of the eleventh-hour workers. 594 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE 10. What just accusation is made by the final question in the parable of the laborers in the vineyard? 11. Where was the parable of the ten virgins spoken? 12. What was the chief purpose of giving the parable of the ten virgins? 13. Discuss what great life lesson is to be learned from the parable of the ten virgins: A little preparation is better than much reparation. 14, Discuss the statement: The oil in our lamp of life is the Spirit of the Lord? LESSON II (Second Week in January) Work and Business LESSON III (Third Week in January) Literature Walt Whitman presents a new problem in American literature. His poetry is very far removed from that of Edgar Allen Poe. He himself speaks of it as a "barbaric yapp," which GUIDE LESSONS FOR JANUARY | 595 is his own confession that his verse is very different to anything that people were in the habit of calling poetic verse. He was at first very unpopular as a poet. He came before the American public handicapped in two ways. In the first place, he gave to the world an entirely new type of poetry and scheme of verse that did not in any sense please the people who had learned to read the poems of Longfellow, Lowell, and Holmes. His other handicap came from the fact that socially he descended from a group of people who did not especially represent the cultured class, so that readers were very suspicious of his art productions. Katherine Lee Bates, in an effort to describe his verse, says: In 1855, there broke upon the world a sound that impressed most hearers as a bestial bellow. Heretofore America's poets had been Harvard professors, Concord sages, graceful southerners, polished Philadelphians and New Yorkers, who had written like pure-hearted, cultivated gentlemen, and this new poet who has been described as an "Apollo in shirt sleeves' did not impress the American public at all favorably," An official attempt was even made to suppress Leaves of Grass as indecent, but Walt Whitman was not to be suppressed. -Walt Whitman was born in Long Island of farmer ancestry. A man of meagre schooling, he had knocked about the world in a free and easy way; roaming through the West and South, exploring great cities, and trying a variety of occupations such as teaching, gardening, printing, carpentry, journalism, which all ended in his finally making up his mind to be a poet. He says, "I, now thirty-seven years old, in perfect health, began, hoping to cease not until death." Walt Whitman served during the Civil War as a war nurse. So strenuous was the activity required of him during this very abnormal period that for twenty years he lived a paralytic. He had his heart's desire, for, while he was forced to the life of an invalid and to all the inconvenience of one who is paralyzed, yet, during these twenty years, he was able to write poetry. The following story will indicate how the New England group of poets regarded Walt Whitman socially. During the Civil War he had served a resident of the State of Massachusetts _ in a most extraordinary way. This man, hoping to repay Whitman in small measure for the great benefit bestowed upon him, invited him to come to Boston and Concord. When Whitman was able to accept the invitation he wrote to his friend, Mr. S.,. Telling him he would be very glad to make a visit to those cities. Mr. S., went to Concord and told the literary people there of Mr. Whitman's intended visit. The Emersons made some excuse, Thoreau said it would not be convenient to receive him because his sister was indisposed, and the Alcotts behaved in much the 596. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE same fashion. Concord was not mentioned by Mr. S. To his guest, because he understood perfectly that the literary people of his state did not wish to receive the poet. With all the difficulties and discouragement Whitman encountered, he finally attracted the notice of the critics, who discovered that he had very unusual power. Again he wrote his friend, Mr. S., that he would come to Boston for a visit. The friend had this information published in the newspaper. The poets of Concord saw the item and very promptly took steps to extend to him a most cordial greeting. Miss Alcott wrote asking for the pleasure of Mr. Whitman's company at an afternoon tea, the Emersons opened their home for a reception; every courtesy that literary Concord had to offer was extended to him. Although his poetry finally gained favor with certain critics of poetry in Europe and America, there was not that in his writing to make him popular with the American public. He selected very unusual subjects and wrote about these unusual subjects in a very unusual way. Walt Whitman has been called the most democratic of all our poets. He realized that we were facing a new civilization, a civilization where the products of science would be of immense importance. Poets had written about chariots and barouches, but most people would have said that a locomotive was not a fit theme for the poet's pen; nevertheless, Whitman recognized in it a symbol of power, and he has given us a poem full of suggestiveness—one of the best poems that has grown from this life of ours, propelled by steam, gasoline, and electricity. We include a few lines from the poem, "To a Locomotive in Winter:" "Thy black cylindric body, golden brass, and silvery steel; Thy ponderous side-bars, parallel and connecting rods. Gyrating Shuttling at thy sides. "Thy long, pale, floating vapor-pennants, tinged with delicate purple; The dense and murky clouds out-belching from thy, smokestacks; Thy knitted frame—thy springs and valves—the tremulous twinkle of thy wheels. "Type of the modern!—emblem of motion and power!—pulse of the continent! For once, come serve the Muse and merge in verse, even as here I see thee, With storm and buffeting gusts of wind, and falling snow; By day, thy warning, ringing bell to sound its notes, By night thy silent signal lamps to swing."
Walt Whitman revered above all else in this world the man. What he has to say about a great city is a classic. In his "Song of the Broad Axe," we read:
"The great city is that which has the greatest men and women; If it be a few ragged huts, it is still the greatest city in the whole world."
GUIDE LESSONS FOR JANUARY 597
And farther on he says a great city is the place,
"Where equanimity is illustrated in affairs, Where speculations on the Soul are encouraged, Where women walk in public procession in the streets the same as the men, Where they enter the public assembly and take places the same as men, Where the city of the faithfulest friends stands, Where the city of the cleanliness of the sexes stands, Where the city of the healthiest fathers stands; Where the city of the best-bodied mothers stands— There the great city stands."
Walt Whitman is ahead of his time in appreciating the clean, healthy body. These lines will show how thoroughly modern were his ideas in relation to the body:
"There is something in staying close to men and women, and looking on them, and in the contact and odor of them, that pleases the soul well.
"A Man's body at auction; (For before the war I often go to the slave-mart and watch the sale).
"Gentlemen look on this wonder! Whatever the bids of the bidders, they cannot be high enough for it.
"In this head the all-baffling brain, In and below it the makings of heroes.
Examine these limbs, red, black, or white, they are cunning in tendon and nerve,
"Exquisite senses life-lit eyes, pluck, volition, Flakes of breast-muscle, pliant backbone and neck, flesh not flabby, good-sized arms and legs, And wonders within there yet.
"If anything is sacred the human body is sacred, And the glory and sweet of a man is the token of manhood untainted, And in man or woman a clean, strong, firm-fibred body, is beautiful as the most beautiful face."
Walt Whitman has written what is perhaps the best poem on Abraham Lincoln, "O Captain! My Captain!"
O Captain! My Captain! Our fearful trip is done; The ship has weather'd every rack, the prize we sought is won; The port is near, the bells I hear, the people all exulting While follow eyes the steady keel, the vessel grim and daring; But O heart! Heart! Heart! O the bleeding drops of red, Where on the deck my Captain lies, Fallen cold and dead.
O Captain! My Captain! Rise up and hear the bells; Rise up—for you the flag is flung—for you the bugle trills, For you bouquets and ribbon'd wreaths—for you the shores a-crowding, For you they call, the swaying mass, their eager faces turning; Here Captain! Dear father! This arm beneath your head; It is some dream that on the deck, You've fallen cold and dead.
598 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
My Captain does not answer, his lips are pale and still, My father does not feel my arm, he has no pulse nor will, The ship is anchored safe and sound, its voyage closed and done, From fearful trip the victor ship comes in with object won; Exult, O shores, and ring, O bells! But I with mournful tread, Walk the deck my Captain lies Fallen cold and dead.
QUESTIONS AND PROBLEMS
1. Which sort of poetry do you prefer, the kind that emphasizes matter, or the kind which emphasizes the manner in which the matter is presented?
2. Discuss this proposition: The poets of America would be behind the times if their poetry was not representative of our present-day civilization.
3. What event in Lincoln's life inspired the beautiful poem, "O Captain! My Captain!"?
4. In what sense might Walt Whitman be considered a war hero?
5. Discuss Walt Whitman's statement: "A great city is that which has the greatest men and women; If it be a few ragged huts, it is still the greatest city in the whole world."
6. Do you think that the poetry written by poets today resembles the writing of Walt Whitman? If you think that any considerable group of poets are copying his style, then, despite the fact that his form was very unpopular in the beginning, has he not won out?
LESSON IV (Fourth Week in January) Social Service
PLANNING A FAMILY BUDGET
A family's economic security is dependent not only on the nature and the amount of the income, but also on the manner in which the income is expended. Some parents rear a large, healthy, well-educated family on an income which is "next to nothing." On the other hand, there are persons, with fairly moderate incomes, who are always in debt, and who suffer much mental distress and perhaps actual privation because of their unsound financial status. The management of the family earnings is as important as supplying the income, in maintaining satis-
GUIDE LESSONS FOR JANUARY 599
factory living conditions and in achieving desirable economic security.
The management of the income is usually the responsibility of the mother. A general family agreement, however, usually determines some of the more important decisions, such as the choice of house or neighborhood, or the length of the educational period of the children. But planning the expenditures, according to the family standard, is the task of the home maker. Her efficiency in planning a budget, in weighing the various needs, and in making the frequent decisions when conflicts arise between individual desires and the family resources, are all important in maintaining a successful home. Her failure to disburse the family funds wisely often leads to general discouragement, discontent, and family instability.
The first factor in planning the expenditures of an income is its distribution. There are certain physical essentials of living that must be provided—shelter, fuel, food, clothing, and certain incidentals that may be designated "higher life." On a small income, a large proportion will be needed for the first four items. Any budget, of course, varies in different neighborhoods and communities, and varies in individual families according to the ages, the degree of health, and the educational standards of the members. In a budget for a minimum income, however, there are not great variances. For an average family, with a limited income, the rent will be about twenty percent, the food forty per cent, clothing twenty per cent, fuel ten per cent, leaving the other ten percent for higher life—church contribution, education, and recreation. As the income increases, the amount devoted to travel, recreation, education, etc., makes the last item a larger part of the budget.
If a family with a small income is spending too great a proportion for rent, or for clothing, or for food, it is obvious that the corrective measures must be applied to the part of the budget. After a proper rental (or taxes and upkeep) has been determined, the items of clothing and food should be studied. A woman who is skillful with the needle can do much to keep the clothing allowance within reason, while one who has not learned the lesson of taking a stitch in time, and who depends on the shops and the seamstress for all the household linen and family apparel, will find her expenditures all out of proportion. Some determination, and some lessons in needlecraft, may be the means of making the income cover the family needs.
A knowledge of comparative food values, of balanced diets, and of the preparation of nutritive dishes are essential to every housewife. Not only is an understanding of dietetics a factor in budget control, but it is also essential to the healthy development
600 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
of the members of the family. The habits of depending on "package goods" and canned foods is undesirable from both a dietary and financial viewpoint. Often, too, when a family's diet is restricted to heavy, solid foods, lacking an adequate amount of milk, fats, and vegetables, the children as a result suffer serious physical ailments. A malnourished child, who is listless and catches cold easily and who is not keeping up with his grade at school, is not necessarily suffering from the lack of food. More than likely the difficulty is that he eats too much—literally "all the time"—rather than at regular intervals. Or it may be that his diet lacks some essential element, or that the foods given him are poorly combined. If appealed to on the grounds of the children's health, a mother, who is convinced that her ideas of menus and cooking are satisfactory, can often be persuaded to introduce more nutritious dishes into the family diet. By a few home demonstrations, by the circulation of pamphlets, or by neighborhood classes, much important dietary information can be disseminated to the good of many families.
Reference: Household Management, Florence Nesbitt—or any available text book on budgets and dietetics.
QUESTIONS AND PROBLEMS
1. Why is it necessary to proportion an income?
2. Name some ways that a clothing allowance can be reduced.
3. Discuss some practical ways of reducing a food budget.
4. What are some of the results of a poor diet?
5. Plan a minimum budget for a family of six, in your community? For a person living alone?
Teachers' Topic for January
HEALTH IN THE HOME
Note: We feel that nothing could be more vital for teachers' topic, during 1925, than little chats on the general health of the community.
QUARANTINE LAW
A. Duty of every mother to protect other children as well as her own. B. The justice of the law should be developed in every Latter-day Saint woman's heart. C. The health of the community should be safeguarded by D. It should not be necessary to have ordinances enforcing this law; but, as we have them, let us see that they are obeyed.
Every individual, Compare the Pages of
The Deseret News
with those of any other paper. Notice that while the paper is clean and fit for any child to read it is also interesting and informative in the highest sense—And you get "TODAY'S NEWS TODAY"
Individual Sacrament Sets Now in Stock
BEST IN THE MARKET WILL LAST A LIFE TIME 36 GLASSES IN EACH TRAY RECOMMENDED BY PATRONS. REFERENCES FURNISHED
Made especially for L. D. S. Churches, and successfully used in Utah and Intermountain region, also in all Missions in the United States, Europe, and Pacific Islands.
Basic metal, Nickel Silver, heavily plated with Solid Silver.
SIMPLE, SANITARY, DURABLE Satisfaction guaranteed Inquiries cheerfully answered
THE LATEST ACKNOWLEDGMENT
Bishop's Office, Bern, Idaho, May 2, 1921.
"I am in receipt of the Individual Sacrament Set, consisting of four trays and the proper number of glasses.
"Everything arrived in good condition. We are very pleased with it. I take this occasion to thank you for your kindness."
BUREAU OF INFORMATION Temple Block Salt Lake City
GLAZIER AND TAYLOR HOSIERY COMPANY 33 EAST BROADWAY
A Store Dealing in Quality Hosiery and Underwear Exclusively
Heavy Silk Full-Fashioned, all colors A wonderful hose for wear Per Pair $2.00 Box of Three Pairs $5.75
Silk Semi-Fashioned, all colors, beautiful and durable Per Pair $1.50 Box of Three Pairs $4.25
Top, the Comfort Stocking Per Pair $1.25
Pure Silk, Semi-Fashioned, very durable All Colors Per Pair $1.00 Box of Three Pairs $2.85
MAIL ORDERS PREPAID
Book of Poems "The Beautiful Valley of Utah" Eureka, Utah, Box 129.
When ordering mention Relief Society Magazine.
100 Sheets of Fine Writing Paper 100 Envelopes $1.50
Delivered postpaid to your home. Printed with your name and address in fine blue plate Gothic. (Not more than 3 lines). Send Money with order. Write plainly.
Universal Stationery Supply Co. 281—24th Street. OGDEN, UTAH
Silk with Extra Stretch Elastic 50c per copy.
By Mrs. J. Long,
The season of Lamps and Gifts is now here and there may be some who would think the day dark without a gift from you. The sun will surely shine if they get the gift from
Callaway's 66 So. Main St. The Gift Store
BOOKS and the HOME
A good library is about the best thing in any modern home. All ages profit by it. The home library is an endless source of inspiration, amusement, learning. Have us help you choose good books.
Deseret Book Company 44 East on South Temple. Salt Lake City
All Up-To-Date Libraries Both Public and Private Contain
Bound Volumes of the Relief Society Magazine
Following are the bound volumes we have on hand:
5 vols. 1915, leather bound $3.50 2 vols. 1916, leather bound $3.50 2 vols. 1916, cloth bound $2.75 5 vols. 1917, leather bound $3.50 3 vols. 1918, leather bound $3.50 1 vol. 1919, cloth bound $2.75 5 vols. 1919, leather bound $3.50 10 vols. 1920, leather bound $3.50 7 vols. 1921, leather bound $3.50 6 vols. 1922, cloth bound $2.75 5 vols. 1922, leather bound $3.50
15c extra for postage
All orders should be addressed to the Relief Society Magazine, Room 20 Bishop's Bldg., Salt Lake City, Utah.
One thing that makes
BLUE PINE OLIVE OIL
a distinctive brand is the fact that only ripe French Olives are used in its manufacture. It is pure, sweet, rich in olive flavor and high in food value. Always use Blue Pine for salads and dressings. A superior oil for all household purposes. Ask your grocer.
Other BLUE PINE products
A SCOWCROFT PRODUCT
Mention Relief Society Magazine
DECEMBER No. 12
CONTENTS
Madonna And Child Frontispiece To Our Beloved Sisters Relief Society Presidency 601 Gold, Frankincense and Myrrh Hazel S. Washburn 603 At the Relief Society Conference at Honolulu 604 A Trip to Hawaii Amy Brown Lyman 605 The Discontinued Custom Annie Pike Greenwood 615 Sensible Christmas Giving Ramona Wilcox Cannon 619 Editorial—A Greeting From Across the Sea 625 Utah Women Honored by National Council Of Women 626 Joseph Smith's Views of Women 626 Relief Society Conference Minutes Amy Brown Lyman 628
Organ of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints Room 20 Bishop's Bldg. Salt Lake City, Utah $1.00 a Year—Single Copy, 10c Canada and Foreign, $1.25 a Year—15c Single Copy
Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah
Guide Lessons for February 647
Give Something Electrical —backed by our guarantee and Service
There's something electrical for everyone! Toy trains and ranges for the kiddies, and useful, beautiful, appliances to bring joy to the older folks. An electrical gift is doubly valuable when it is purchased here because we see that it gives the right service.
Utah Power & Light Co. "Efficient Public Service"
Competent Office Help— Is always in demand. If you are bright, alert, and ambitious, you will find a business college training a wonderful investment. This is the best time of the year to begin. Write or call today.
L. D. S. BUSINESS COLLEGE Day and Evening SALT LAKE CITY All the Year
ICE CREAM CANDY CAKE PUNCHES deliciously different PHONE WAS. 3223
Individual Sacrament Sets Now in Stock
BEST IN THE MARKET WILL LAST A LIFE TIME 36 GLASSES IN EACH TRAY RECOMMENDED BY PATRONS. REFERENCES FURNISHED
Made especially for L. D. S. Churches, and successfully used in Utah and Intermountain region, also in all Missions in the United States, Europe, and Pacific Islands.
Basic metal, Nickel Silver, heavily plated with Solid Silver.
SIMPLE, SANITARY, DURABLE Satisfaction guaranteed Inquiries cheerfully answered
THE LATEST ACKNOWLEDGMENT
Bishop's Office, Bern, Idaho, May 2, 1921.
"I am in receipt of the Individual Sacrament Set, consisting of four trays and the proper number of glasses.
"Everything arrived in good condition. We are very pleased with it. I take this occasion to thank you for your kindness."
BUREAU OF INFORMATION Temple Block Salt Lake City
W. M. McCONAHAY THE JEWELER 64 So. Main Phone Was. 1821 Salt Lake City, Utah
When Shopping Mention Relief Society Magazine
100 Sheets of Fine Writing Paper 100 Envelopes $1.50
Delivered postpaid to your home. Printed with your name and address in fine blue plate Gothic. (Not more than 3 lines). Send Money with order. Write plainly.
Universal Stationery Supply Co. 281—24th Street. OGDEN, UTAH
NEW GARMENTS
The "Temple Brand" Garments are handled only by your leading merchants. We make a Variety of Grades and Weights to meet every requirement, with strings and buttons, long or short sleeves and legs as you want them according to seasonable desires. Samples submitted on request.
For Ladies For Men No. 1—Flat Weave Light................ 95 No. 902—Ribbed Light Weight.... 1.25 No. 2—Ribbed Weave Light............ 1.25 No. 903—Ribbed Extra Quality.... 1.75 No. 15—Extra Quality Flat.............. 1.45 No. 925—Med. Light Weight........ 1.85 No. 803—Extra Quality Ribbed...... 1.50 No. 975—Med. Heavy Weight...... 2.25 No. 825—Med. Weight Cotton...... 1.85 No. 990—Heavy Econ. Cotton........ 2.50 No. 800—Silk Stripe Med............ 2.00 No. 9107—Wool & Cotton................ 4.00 No. 850—Imp. Lisle.................... 2.50 No. 970—Silk & Wool & Cotton.... 4.50
To insure a good fit give bust measure, height, and weight, specify whether garments are for men or women, and state whether long sleeves ankle length or short sleeves three quarter legs are desired. Double Backs 25c extra. Garments marked 15c pair extra. We prepay postage to all parts of United States.
Oldest Knitting Company in Utah SALT LAKE KNITTING STORE, 70 Main St., Salt Lake City
Ask your dealer for Z. C. M. I. Factory Made Kiddies' Allovers DUTCH CUT
They are the famous Mountaineer Brand in dark blue, light blue, striped and khaki. Mothers—they are just what you need for the little tots—and the kiddies like them too
Relief Society Conference, held at Honolulu, August, 1924. Front row, seated, from left to right: Mrs. Ricky McQuire and Mrs. Minerva Fernandez, counselors, and Mrs. Louise C. Neff, president of Relief Society of Hawaiian Mission; Elder Richard R. Lyman, Mrs. Amy Brown Lyman, President Anthony W. Ivins, Mrs. Elizabeth Snow Ivins, Miss Daphne Dalton and Mrs. Josephine Smith, visitors from Salt Lake City, and Mrs. Taylor from Ogden; President Eugene Neff, of Hawaiian Mission; Seated on grass, center, Miss Fulvia Ivins and Miss Bae Williams.
Relief Society Magazine Vol. XI DECEMBER, 1924 No. 12
A Trip to Hawaii
By Amy Brown Lyman
One can hardly conceive of anything more thrilling in the way of travel than a trip to the Hawaiian Islands, the Paradise of the Pacific. The attractions of this garden spot are becoming so well known that the local boats running from San Francisco to the Islands are now taxed to their capacity to accommodate the tourist travel, and it is necessary to get reservations months ahead.
Aside from the beauty and charm of these tropical islands, members of the Latter-day Saint Church have another and special interest in Hawaii. This interest is due to the great missionary work which has been accomplished there in the past, and is being accomplished today by the Church, and to the fact that there are some twelve thousand Hawaiian Church members residing there.
In the seventy-four years which have elapsed since this mission was opened by President George Q. Cannon, in 1850, hundreds and even thousands of our missionaries, including our late beloved President Joseph F. Smith, have performed service in the Islands, and as a result, approximately one-third of the Hawaiian people today belong to the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. So attached do the missionaries become to the place and the people that they are all anxious to return for at least a visit; and their relatives and friends, having heard so much of the wonders of the Islands and the hospitality of the people, are also anxious to make the trip.
President Anthony W. Ivins' party, which left Salt Lake on July 7, for Hawaii, was made up of six enthusiastic individuals, none of whom had previously visited the Islands, none of whom had ever had a real sea voyage, and all of whom were thrilled with the prospects of the visit. The party consisted of President and Mrs. Anthony W. Ivins and daughter, Fulvia; Miss Bae Williams, daughter of Senator
606 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
W. N. Williams, and Mrs. Clarissa S. Williams, general president of the Relief Society; and Dr. and Mrs. Richard R. Lyman. President Ivins and Elder Lyman were commissioned by President Heber J. Grant to visit the Hawaiian mission, dedicate the Honolulu chapel, and inspect the business interests of the Church. Their time was taken up largely, during the whole three weeks, in consultations with President Eugene Neff, president of the Hawaiian Mission, and Elder Antoine R. Ivins, manager of the sugar plantation, in surveys of Church and business matters, and in meetings and conferences with the elders and Saints. But
Elder Henry J. Dehaun, President E. J. Neff, Elder Walter N. Steffens, Elder Wm. McCune, Elizabeth Snow Ivins, President A. W. Ivins, Fulvia Ivins, Bae Williams, Elder Richard R. Lyman, Vilate Romney Ivins, Amy Brown Lyman, Hawaiian kids and girls. Roadside, Kona, Hawaii.
Busy as he was, President Ivins, the great friend of the common people and the ardent lover of nature,—human nature included—was never too busy to stop to shake hands with and encourage the laborer, to counsel individually those seeking advice, or to pat the little children on the head and encourage them at a game or feat of skill. Neither did his alert eye or poetic soul miss any of the marvelous beauties of nature. He fairly reveled in the varied and unique scenery. Elder Lyman was filled with enthusiasm over the country, the people, and the accomplishment of the Church.
Mrs. Elizabeth Snow Ivins and Mrs. Amy Brown Lyman
608 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
one-sixth of the population, while the Asiatics make up more than one-half. The census a few years ago shows the entire population of the islands to be 230,210. Of this number there are 24,120 pure Hawaiian and 14,800 mixed Hawaiian and Caucasion of Asiatic blood, making a total of 38,920. The other 191,080 persons are made up of the following: Caucasians or whites, 57,540 with 22,650 Portuguese; 5,080 Porto Rican; 4,210 Spanish; and 25,600 Americans; 91,480 Japanese; 21,770 Chinese; 15,220 Filipinos; 5,270 mixed races.
The death rate among the Hawaiian people is so great that it would seem that this race, as a pure race, must inevitably disappear. During the year the above census was taken, among pure Hawaiians there were 888 deaths as against 533 births. This was partly compensated by more favorable conditions as to part-Hawaiians. The maternity and infant death rates are very high. Infant mortality was at the annual rate of over 139 per 1000 for 1922, and during 1923 it rose to a rate of 304 per 1000. Great efforts are now being made by the Public Health Department to improve health conditions. One finds public health nurses in almost every section of the Territory. A portion of one afternoon was spent very profitably with the public health nurse on the Parker ranch, who explained her work as a visitor in the homes and at the well equipped dispensary. Her salary is paid partly by the Territory and partly by the manager of the ranch.
The Hawaiian people, with their excellent manners and charming grace, are noted for their generosity and hospitality and, indeed, the outstanding features of the visit of the Church party were the hospitality of this genial, kindly and unselfish people, and the manifestation of their love and affection for their leaders.
The Church mission headquarters is now located at Honolulu, where President Neff has his office and where his family resides. The property consists of a large plat of ground, a magnificent chapel or tabernacle built of lava stone and concrete, and an attractive mission home. The Church, which seats 650 people, is beautifully furnished and contains an excellent pipe organ. Mrs. Louise Chamberlain Neff, the capable wife of the mission president, presides over the mission home with grace and dignity, and everybody is made welcome. The regular family, including missionaries who reside in the home, consists of twenty to twenty-five, and it is very interesting to sit at this hospitable board with so many interested and interesting workers. A delicious dinner was served here to the Utah party on the day of their arrival, and was especially appreciated after six days spent on board a vessel. In all, a week was spent with President and Mrs. Neff at Honolulu, and every minute was a joy. There was much to see and much to do. Honolulu is a most beautiful and interesting
A TRIP TO HAWAII 609
city, with probably as great a variety of scenery as any city of its size in the world. The executive building, formerly the royal palace, where the last ruler, Queen Lilioukalani lived and where she was later imprisoned, is most interesting with its remnants of old furniture and its walls covered with paintings of Hawaii's past rulers. It now contains the offices of the governor and other territorial officials, and also the chambers of the Senate and House of Representatives. Mr. Ralph Woolley, a former Utahn, son of Samuel Woolley, for many years president of the L. D. S. Mission in the islands, and who is chairman of the Public Utilities Commission of the Territory, conducted the visitors through the executive building and presented them to the governor.
The Bishop Museum is another place of interest and contains many relics and rare specimens including the ancient royal regalia. Mrs. Bishop, a full-blooded Hawaiian princess, married Mr. Bishop, an American from the state of New York, and their wealth has been left for educational purposes. The Museum and the Bishop School for the Hawaiians are monuments to their generosity.
One of the most attractive spots in all Hawaii is the "Mormon" temple, located on the Church plantation at Laie fifty miles from Honolulu. The sightseeing cars and touring cars all stop here on the trip around the island of Oahu, while their occupants admire the structure and grounds which are set off to the greatest advantage because of the great contrast between this spot and the surrounding fields of cane and pineapple. The temple stands as a monument to the industry as well as the faith of the "Mormon" people and with the beautiful grounds surrounding it, reminds one of a priceless jewel in an exquisitely wrought setting. Elder William M. Waddoups is president of the temple and is assisted in carrying forward the work by the missionaries.
There is a commodious mission home on the plantation which was once the headquarters of the mission, and which is now used as the home of the president of the temple and his family; also the missionaries laboring here. There is also a Church, an amusement hall, a store operated under the management of the plantation, and the Church school—an elementary school, conducted for the benefit of the children on the plantation. The manager of the plantation has a home here, as have also his assistants and helpers and the people who do the manual labor. The unique little plantation railroad should not be overlooked. From the main line, temporary tracks are laid in the cane fields, wherever there is cane to be transported. The rails are laid in one field today, and in another tomorrow, and the train follows the rails and carries the cane from the various localities to the factory.
The plantation school is taught by missionaries who are
610 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
selected because of their ability and past experience as school teachers. Last year the school was in charge of Miss Marguerite Gordon of Alberta, Canada, assisted by five other missionary-teachers. There were 170 pupils in attendance, made up of the following races: Hawaiian, Japanese, Samoan, Porto Rican, Chinese, Filipino, American, Tongan, Spanish, Filipino-Spanish, Hawaiian-Irish, Hawaiian-American, Hawaiian-Chinese, Hawaiian-Japanese, Hawaiian-Samoan, Hawaiian-Indian, English-Hawaiian-Chinese-Spanish, Chinese-Hawaiian-Norwegian. There were also some Negro-Hawaiian-Irish-Portuguese and Korean children in the neighborhood near the plantation, who did not attend day school but who came occasionally to Sunday School.
A regular Church conference was held at Laie and also a Relief Society conference, both of which were well attended and
President Anthony W. Ivins, Mrs. Elizabeth Snow Ivins, and Mrs. Nachie from Japan, a convert to the Church and a devoted friend of Japanese missionaries, including Mr. Grant Ivins, son of President and Mrs. Ivins.
deeply appreciated by the people, who were eager to hear and understand every word spoken by President Ivins, Elder Lyman, and others who addressed them. A large native feast or Luau was held in the amusement hall on the plantation the night of the arrival of the Utah visitors. It was their first introduction to the various Hawaiian foods, which were all beautifully prepared and served. One can hardly imagine a more restful, quiet, romantic spot than Laie, and one week spent here was all too short. With memories of the place itself are memories of the delicious dinners at the home of Mrs. Antoine R. Ivins, and the banquet given for the visitors by Brother Henry Aki, a recent Chinese convert, and
612 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
are teaching and preaching, and in addition some are working on the temple itself as well as in other service connected with the temple. Others are working on the churches which are being built. All are happy and enthusiastic, and sent love and greetings to their loved ones in Zion.
Preceding the Honolulu conference, a Relief Society conference was held with all the branches in and about Honolulu represented. Relief Society work in the Hawaiian mission is in charge of Mrs. Louise C. Neff and is in most excellent condition. It has been established so many years that many of the women have grown old in the work and all of them seem familiar with it. Mrs. Neff is ably assisted by her counselors, two very
President and Mrs. Ivins, taken on board steamer "Maui," leaving Honolulu for San Francisco.
Elder and Mrs. Richard R. Lyman, taken on board steamer "Maui," Leaving Honolulu for San Francisco.
capable Hawaiian sisters, Mrs. Minerva Fernandez, who is a veteran Relief Society worker, and who was a close associate of the former queen; and Mrs. James McQuire, who received her early education and musical training in Germany. There are thirty-six Relief Society branches in the mission, with 861 members. The local presidents are all native Hawaiians, and manage the affairs of their respective branches most capably. Many of the women are excellent speakers and preside with dignity and poise. Last year $1,670.28 was paid out for charity in the mission, 785 days were spent with the sick, and there were 823 special visits to the sick in addition to the 1801 regular visits by the Relief Society teachers.
614 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
Brother Bright reported for his wife, who is president of the Relief Society of Molokai, but who, on account of being afflicted with leprosy is not allowed to leave the colony. There are thirty members in this branch, most of whom are blind and crippled. They all attend Relief Society meetings regularly, however, where, Brother Bright said, they receive inspiration, encouragement, and comfort. Their food and clothing are supplied them by the Board of Health, and with their small allowances they have been able to accumulate a charity fund of $120 which will be used to help the most unfortunate.
The music of the conference was a special feature and showed musical ability on the part of the women, and also careful preparation. Sisters Ivins and Lyman emphasized here as at other meetings, proper home-making, the care and feeding of children, and urged the importance of health measures and sanitation. They explained briefly the efforts of the Relief Society along the lines of general health, maternity and child welfare. Sister Ivins and Sister Lyman were each presented by the Relief Society women with a beautiful Relief Society pin in solid gold. These pins are most highly prized and will ever be reminders of this memorable visit.
In Honolulu, as well as elsewhere, dinners and socials were given in honor of the visitors. Mrs. Lydia Cummings entertained at dinner, and Mr. and Mrs. James McQuire gave a great luau in their spacious and elegant home, to which seventy-five were bidden. This feast was given after the fashion of those given in the olden days by royalty and nobility, and was followed by a rare entertainment of native dances, songs and chants. On the last evening, a farewell party was given by President and Mrs. Neff on the spacious lawns at the mission home. The grounds were beautifully lighted for the occasion and an excellent musical program was given, including music by the Royal Hawaiian band which was in attendance. Short speeches were made by President Neff and the departing visitors, and a reception followed in which all the guests shook hands with the members of President Ivins' party and bade them an affectionate farewell.
The Discontinued Custom
By Annie Pike Greenwood
Grandmother Snowden awoke with a feeling of pleasurable anticipation. She was one of those rarest of old people who take delight in the living present. She had always taken delight in life, and age had not altered her. She kept up all old family customs, but dearer than all others to her were the Christmas festivities, when her boys and girls, and in-laws, and all their children, took dinner with her, and spent the evening in mad merriment in the spacious, beautiful old mansion. Fun they knew how to have, for they had inherited Grandmother's abundant humor, modified and hampered, unfortunately by Grandfather Snowden's irascible temper. Grandmother was the only person who knew, perfectly, how to manage Grandfather Snowden, just as she was generally managing one or another of their quick tempered progenitors. Grandfather Snowden had been dead five years, and the Christmas planning was on her mind alone.
With the help of her maid Amanda, who had been with her for twenty years, she dressed herself, and set out in her coupe for the market. An ordinary dinner she would trust to Mrs. Berswick, the housekeeper, but the Christmas dinner must be her own selection in every detail.
Meredith's the high-class shop which had everything one might desire in edibles, was where her trading was always done. To the younger clerks she was known by her account, but the older ones remembered that she appeared annually to do her own buying, and they turned over to younger clerks such customers as they might be waiting upon, and gave their time exclusively to Mrs. James W. Snowden as long as she might desire it.
"Mr. Hampton," she addressed the elderly man who had hurried eagerly toward her upon her entrance, having instructed Sammy Brown to take the rest of young Mrs. Pierpont's order. "Mr. Hampton, have you a large turkey for me?"
Hampton beamed and rubbed his hands on his white apron delightedly. "I sure have, Mrs. Snowden. I saved one especial for you. When this shipment of turkeys came, there was one fellow that out-beat all the rest, and I says to the boys right then, "There's Mrs. Snowden's turkey!' and I set it aside, as you'll see, with name on it. I s'pose you want to take it with you as you always do?"
Grandmother Snowden smiled at him, with a pretty flush in her cheeks, "Certainly, Mr. Hampton; I want to take the whole
616 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
dinner back with me. Did you remember another turkey for the servants?"
"Yes, ma'am, Mrs. Snowden. I saved another. But this bird I saved for your family—Well, you'll see—" He left her, and was back in a moment with two turkeys, placing one of them on the scales, and proudly drawing her attention to it. "See that, Mrs. Snowden? Tips the scales at thirty pounds! Don't see many birds like that!"
One thing after another she ordered until the dinner was complete, and when she rode home it was with the triumphant consciousness of a happy deed accomplished. While the chef was busy with her directions concerning desserts, she thought she would telephone her girls of the approaching event, and enjoy the anticipatory pleasure of discussing it. Of course, there was no question in her mind about their coming, because a custom established in the Snowden family was never discontinued.
"Hello, Edith, is that you?—I have the finest turkey I ever had for our Christmas dinner, and—Who is to be here?—Why, what a funny question! All of you, of course:—What's that?—You won't come if Helen does?—Edith Singleton, are you crazy?—you won't come if your own sister comes?—She didn't come to help you with that dinner you were giving, when she had promised? Well, perhaps—You say you know she was just joy-riding with that Mrs. Eggers?—But, Edith—well, I am provoked with you! Goodbye!"
Grandmother Snowden hung up the receiver with a snap, and a sparkle of indignation was in her eyes. Then she took it from the hook and asked for another number.
"I want Helen—Oh, Helen! Of course, you are coming to eat Christmas dinner with me!—Why not Edith?—Oh!—What about Fred?—He didn't let Grant in on that deal when he made all that money and he could just as well have done it?—Oh, what shall I do with such a family!—You say the Fletchers, Hancocks, Demmings, and Glaziers won't come if the Yates, Moores, Valentines, Wilkins and Keisers do?—Very well! Then none of you shall come! I won't have a broken-up squabbling family sitting at my table " Grandmother Snowden's heart was high. A red spot burned is either cheek. "Amanda," she directed that faithful servitor, "Have Jerry take the big turkey to the Salvation Army, with all that goes with it. I shall be dining alone on Christmas day." Amanda did not question Grandmother's decision, and she knew better than to offer any consolatory words. But her heart boiled with indignation at the persons or circumstances which had interrupted this dearest of all customs to Grandmother Snowden's heart. On Christmas day Grandmother Snowden went about the 618 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE on cards, and when she reached the hotel in her handsome modern gown, she placed these cards herself on the dining-table in the Japanese room, every other one face downward. Ed Proctor she told to have her guests in the blue room notified first. When they seated themselves according to her direction, it was with some surprise that they noted the vacant chair by each place. What could it mean? None of them dared investigate the cards which lay face downward beside the unclaimed plates. The blue room guests were ushered into the dining-room. They entered the room in a body, and stood staring in shocked surprise. Claire Keiser, who had inherited most abundantly her grandmother's sense of humor, was the first to regain her self-possession, bursting into rippling laughter, and swooping down upon her grandmother, "Oh, you darling! What a perfectly delightful scheme! Now, don't a single one of you scrapping old fogies spoil Grandmother's Christmas by sulking! You sit right down where she wants you. Is my name by you, Grandmother? It is! How lovely! I hoped you'd want me as much as I wanted you!" Embarrassed, but smiling, the entire family was seated. Every member was glad of the stroke of genius that had brought them together. Like combative people in general, they welcomed the chance of reconciliation that would not compromise their pride. During the chattering and laughter which followed, Edith leaned across the table to Helen and said, "Of course, we are all going to Mother's after dinner, aren't we?' "Of course,' answered Helen, "we couldn't discontinue an old custom!" A flicker of tolerant humor came into Grandmother Snow-. Den's old eyes as she overheard them. SENSIBLE CHRISTMAS GIVING... 621 ened, spiced, and shortened bread with fruit in something like our raisin bread) are on hand, and possibly more elaborate refreshments. The Germans send Christmas greeting cards to a very wide circle of friends. They, too, regard Christmas day ina religious light, and keep to quiet family reunions. In France, also, Christmas is a holy day. Many of the Catholics go to confession some time the day before Christmas and fast from then until midnight mass. At midnight the people all attend the elaborate mass ritual in the beautiful churches, then have a delicious dinner at home after that. The children shine their shoes and shine and shine and shine, and place them in a neat row on the mantelpiece, for Santa will come in the night and fill them with candies and other goodies. Christmas day is for further worship, and family gatherings. The real day for gifts is New Year's. The children have their bundles ready, and go to bed early. Father and mother retire also, with all sorts of mysterious packages concealed about them. When the chimes ring at midnight, the children arise and flock to their parents' room, kiss their father and mother, and wish them a happy New Year, then recite some selection they have learned, and present their gifts. The parents accept nothing that is merely purchased. The gifts must be the handiwork of the children. Perhaps it is some special drawing or geopraphy paper, or something of that kind. All through December, the children have been very busy. Little Marie has an exciting time, hiding from father the stockings she is knitting for him, and keeping mother's gift, and sister's, too, out of their sight. She must be prepared-to drop one and pick up another at any moment. Perhaps mother has had Marie neatly cutting and sewing some clothes for a doll for a poor little girl in the neighborhood; and perhaps she herself will receive that doll and those very clothes, from behind mother's pillow. That gift—a real lovely doll she will prize and cherish for many years. As a rule children are given. A good deal less, and are much more careful and appreciative than American kiddies., Santa Claus does not visit South American "minos," but they receive a few small remembrances from their families, and have a suggestion of a celebration. The servants, however, begin reminding the "senora" several days ahead, that the Holy Night is coming and that they need a pair of sandals or a new dress or something else. More often than not from a sense of innate modesty, Concha will tell the mistress that Fermina needs, and Fermina will mention Joachin's desires, and so on, or the mothers may call and do a little talking on their own account. Returning to our own Christmas, and the idea of sensible giving, probably we should remember the applicability of the old Greek SENSIBLE CHRISTMAS GIVING — 623 men would be delighted with a gift of home-made candy or a fruit cake, others would not esteem it, particularly. Some care greatly about beautifully monogramed handkerchiefs, others are rather indifferent to such things, In many cases, families co-operate and buy their presents together. It is a commendable system. Most of us would prefer one elaborate gift from six people than six individual lesser gifts. And with this system applied to the children of the brothers and sisters, they need not be flooded with superfluous perishable toys, but might receive more substantial toys or articles of clothing, or other things which they would desire and appreciate—which _ would not overcrowd the house, and would help the mother. Consecutive Christmas gifts of the same kind, are a good plan, especially when people are trying to acquire a complete set of china or silverware. Even if people's means are very limited, two or three or more could combine to give one piece of either silver or china, two teaspoons or forks or even one, in preference to two or three trifles. For the succeeding birthday or Christmas, the gift might be duplicated. Like the French, we should, and most of us do, stress the importance of the gift made by friends or family. Mothers cannot be too appreciative of the efforts of their little ones in this direction. The calendar or pen-wiper, however amateurish, that is presented by the child with a happy smile and the proud words, "I made it for you, myself, mother," should receive a place of honor a longside the handsomest piece of wrought silverware. To this end, children should be encouraged to make their gifts, and should be started out early in the year. Being thus occupied will keep them busy and happy and out of mischief, and the time a mother spends teaching them, will be more than saved in time that she would have to correct them otherwise. We, ourselves, find it difficult to do the handwork we desire, but if, all through the year, we kept within immediate reach, a basket or bag, with a Christmas article, needle and thread and scissors and thimble, in it, so that if we sat down just ten minutes to rest our feet, or half an hour to chat with a visitor; or if it were quite ready to pick up and take with us to make a call, or go to club, or a party, we would accomplish enough to surprise ourselves. Doubtless all the Relief Societies are contributing useful suggestions for Christmas gifts. In the Ensign stake Relief Society, an effort is being made to increase the attendance at the work and business meetings. All women are urged to come and bring their own work, if they are not engaged on some Relief Society quilts or other articles. Sister Lucile Taylor, the work chairman of the Board, has been EDITORIAL Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah Motto—Charity Never Faileth THE GENERAL BOARD MRS. CLARISSA SMITH WILLIAMS President MRS. JENNIE BRIMHALL KNIGHT - -First Counselor MRS. LOUISE YATES ROBISON - - - - Second Counselor MRS. AMY BROWN LYMAN - - - -General Secretary and Treasurer Mrs. Emma A. Empey Mrs. Lotta Paul Baxter Mrs. Ethel Reynolds Smith Mrs. Jeanette A. Hyde Mrs. Julia A. Child Mrs. Barbara Howell Richards Miss Sarah M. McLelland Mrs. Cora L. Bennion Mrs. Rosannah C. Irvine Mrs. Annie Wells Cannon Mrs. Julia A. F. Lund Miss Alice Louise Reynolds Mrs. Lalene H. Hart Mrs. Amy Whipple Evans Mrs. Lizzie Thomas Edward, Music Director Miss Edna Coray, Organist RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Editor.  - - - Clarissa SMITH WILLIAMS Associate Editor:.. - -. - - Alice Louise REYNOLDS Business Manager. -. - - - - - - - Jeanette A. Hyde Assistant Manager: - - - Amy Brown Lyman Room 29, Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah Vol. XI DECEMBER, 1924 No. 12 A Greeting From Across The Sea We greet you from across the sea—from a land that has held the leadership of the world from the days of ancient Rome, until the period of the Great War—from a land that has produced great painters and musicians and writers, great scientists and preachers and statesmen—from a country covered with buildings of architectural fame, of world-old churches whose spires reach toward heaven and whose bells chime out on the Sabbath air, "Peace on earth, good will to men.", In this country some of you, and many of your fathers and "mothers and grandparents, were born. In the spring of the year I ate dinner with a lady who had lived all her life within an easy walk of Warwick castle. I have had as an acquaintance for inany years a woman who knew the city of Canterbury as if by rote. She knew the cathedral, the archbishop's palace, the bell called "Old Hal," after Henry VIII, the little tea shop were Dickens is said to have met McCawber, and the homes of Agnes and Uriah Heap. She knew the long Dover road and nearly all the places of interest in her native city. I have another acquaintance whose home was in Paris, and who reveled in the dramatic stories furnished us by French history and in, its many historic spots. I have known, rather intimately, in my life, people from Cologne, Germany, from Berlin, Dresden, Brussels, Amsterdam, Copenhagen, Stockholm and Christiania, and it is 632. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE establishment of such a home, and not until the community sees its way to fully finance such a proposition. Any maternity home established by the Relief Society. Should conform to the highest standards for such institutions. The buildings should be sanitary and well equipped. The right kind of competent help should be secured, including a hospital graduate nurse. Only reputable, well-trained physicians should be connected with the institution. The Cottonwood stake, through the co-operation of the First Presidency and the Presiding Bishopric, have recently established a maternity home in Murray, for which we commend them. This undertaking will be watched closely by the First Presidency and Presiding Bishopric, as well as by the General Board of Relief Society. A certain community in the southern part of the state is anxious to establish a maternity home, also, but when a survey was made, it was found that there are only about eighty births a year, which would of course not justify the establishment of a maternity hospital, without an absolute knowledge that additional funds could be raised and would be forthcoming. I feel that there is no more commendable thing for Relief Societies to do than to arrange for mothers to be given the proper care during confinement, and I believe the time will come when maternity cottages will be scattered throughout Latter-day Saint communities. It is highly honorable for women to bear children. The labor of the Latter-day Saints is to build up the communities with honest, honorable, healthy people. Public Health Nurses: I am a great believer in the public health nurse, and I hope the time will soon come when there will be one in every county. I hope Relief Society women will encourage the movement. There are very few public health nurses in the states where the Relief Society is organized; so in addition to having in mind the thought of providing such nurses for the communities, Relief Society women should also have in mind their training and preparation. The public health nurse must be a hospital graduate nurse, and must also have one year of training in addition in a school where training in public health work is given. It would be a great credit to our organization if there could be public health nurses in all the communities of the Latterday Saints, through the efforts of the Relief Society organization, in co-operation with the counties and other agencies. — There is so much said and written about the health of the community now, and about the health of the individual. The death rate of children is decreasing, the infant mortality is decreasing; people are living to an older age, and it is through the efforts of men and women that this is the case. Yesterday I just happened to look through the newspaper. There was an article which said that the ideas which we have in regard to 634.. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE MISS IONE ALDER Miss Alder stated that when she responded to President Knight's call to come to Denver to arrange for health work in southern Colorado, she went to the office of the Colorado AntiTuberculosis Association, where the executive secretary, Miss Garnet I. Pelton, explained to her that the Association had been making a survey in Colorado, and had found that 67% of the children in many districts were malnourished, underweight, and with physical defects. At the time the survey was made it was found that the mothers and children in all the communities were very much interested in public health work, and it was desirable to give them all assistance possible. Miss Alder reported that she spent five weeks in Denver, preparing for the work she was called to do in the southern part of the state. She was given training by the Visiting Nurse Association, going out with the nurses into the homes, doing bedside nursing, and studying sanitation. The Denver Anti-Tuberculosis Association gave Miss Alder training in nutrition, and she spent some time at the various health clinics in Denver. She stated that when she reached her destination, she found the Relief Society officers of the San Luis and Young stakes ready and willing to co-operate with her in her work in every possible way. In the towns which were visited by Miss Alder, announcements were made in the public meetings that health conferences would be held. The equipment used in weighing and measuring the children who attended the health conference was carried from town to town. The children's eyes, teeth, and tonsils were examined, and the general condition of health noted. The records of the findings at the health conferences were taken into the homes of the children, where the mothers were told of the condition of the children, and were given an opportunity to discuss with the nurse the care which the children should receive. It was found in Colorado, as it is found everywhere, that the children were not drinking enough milk, nor eating enough vegetables, and that they were eating too much sweets, especially between and before meals. Miss Alder reported that in connection with the health conferences and visits to the homes, she gave talks on nutrition to the mothers in Relief Society meetings, and to the children in Primary meetings. This method was followed in each town visited, Nutrition classes were also organized where mothers came and brought their children to be weighed. In Colorado health work effort has been made to interest the child in his own health, and when a child gains in weight, he is given a star, which interests him and makes a game of proper eating and sleeping habits, 638 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE all agencies. No agency should magnify its own function at the expense of other agencies. The demand for team play among all field workers is obvious and pressing. The health of the community is, after all, a matter of general and co-operative interest. The essential thing in team play is that each participant. Shall not lose his identity but shall subordinate his individual purposes to the common interest and do his part loyally in spreading the gospel of health. We need to bring ourselves to see each other's viewpoint and if we earnestly strive to do so, much can be accomplished by exchange of information, standardization of work, and co-operation of allied activities. In our own state where the number of public health nurses is so limited, the volunteer agencies render valuable service in the field of public health, but this service can be rendered more economically and to greater advantage if co-ordinated and carried on in co-operation with official agencies. I am inclined to believe that one of the most important steps forward in health education has come from the adoption of a gauge whereby the layman as well as the specialist can judge of the child's physical condition and be taught some of the fundamentals of health building and disease prevention. We need more public health nurses, we need an active health council where the various organizations may go for advice in all matters pertaining to health building, we need to understand one another better and to work at whatever task we are fitted to improve the health of our community. We need the volunteer worker. The latter represents a group which is not held down by law, nor confined by circumscribed rules and customs. This group can rise to any occasion within their providence. They can secure funds from sources not available to health departments. They can assist the public health nurse in many ways to make her work more effective and far reaching. But the volunteer worker needs the public health nurse and the health departments for help and guidance. The conclusion is not difficult: the one thing needed is more trained teachers in health education, and better co-operation between all agencies. COMMUNITY RECREATION Counselor Jennie B, Knight Recreation has been an important factor in the community life of the Latter-day Saints since the beginning. Even in the long days of strenuous travel across the plains, there was relaxation in recreation, around the evening campfire. I am sure no plea needs to be made to this body of progressive women for rec- 640 _ RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE a. The providing of ways and means for wholesome enjoyment. B. An educational campaign for better use of leisure time. C. More attention to education in valuable enjoyment. D. A fairer distribution of recreational opportunities. 2. The development of the spirit of sympathy and brotherly feeling through: a. More extensive social contact. B. More natural social contact. C. Breaking down undesirable class distinction in communities. 3. The development of a higher type of social leadership. Group activities demand intelligent initiative cooperation. 4. Promoting health by means of proper physical and social recreation: a. More outdoor activities. B. Better supervision of these activities. C. The creation of a variety of interesting activities for adults. 5. Developing culture and social refinement in youth. A. Maintaining proper standards of etiquette in parties and social functions. B. Educating youth to assist individuals who ere socially timid. C. Directing the mind 6f the youth to the beautiful in dress and outward expression, and to the deep values of mind and spirit. 6. Developing the power of self expression through dramatics, debating, and other aesthetic and intellectual activities. 7. Extending desirable acquaintanceship among adolescents: a. That wholesome friendship may be made. B. That ideals of manhood and womanhood may develop. C. That -errors in courtship may be avoided and a more wholesome relationship promoted. The Mutual Improvement Associations have recommended that a budget be prepared to cover expenses of recreation in the ward, and that this budget cover the expenses of such activities only as are open to the entire membership of the ward. Activities limited to membership of a given group, where all the members of the ward are not invited, should be financed by the organization concerned. In view of the fact that many organizations are not suf- Guide Lessons for February LESSON I (First Week in February) Theology and Testimony THE PARABLES OF OUR SAVIOR (Concluded) The Royal Marriage Feast. Matt. 22:1-14. "And Jesus answered and spake unto them again by parables, and said, "The kingdom of heaven is like unto a certain king, which made a marriage for his son, "And sent forth his servants to call them that were bidden to the wedding: and they would not come. "Again he sent forth other servants. Tell them which are bidden, Behold, I have prepared my dinner; my oxen and my fatlings are killed, and all things are ready: come unto the marriage. "But they made light of it, and went their ways, one to his farm, another to his merchandize: "And the remnant took his servants, and entreated them spitefully, and slew them. "But when the king heard thereof, he was wroth: and he sent forth his armies, and destroyed those murderers, and burned up their city. "Then saith he to his servants, The wedding is ready, but they which were bidden were not worthy. "Go ye therefore into the highways, and as many as ye shall find, bid to the marriage. "So those servants went out into the highways, and gathered together all, as many as they found, both bad and good: and the wedding was furnished with guests. "And when the king came in to see the guests, he saw there. A man which had not on a wedding garment: "And he saith unto him, Friend, how camest thou in hither, not having a wedding garment? And he was speechless. "Then said the king to the servants, Bind him hand and foot, and take him away, and cast him into outer darkness: there shall _ be weeping and gnashing of teeth." Comments—In many respects this illustrative story is like the 'one recorded in Luke 14:16-24, and some writers have taken each to be of a different version of the other. The differences, however 648 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE are too great to admit of a conclusion that the two parables were identical. One was spoken in the temple; the other was uttered at the Sabbath feast, given at the home of a prominent Pharisee. These two parables are different in their nature in that one is milder than the other. In one the offence of the guests is limited to declining the invitation with excuses; in the other the invitations are treated with contempt, insult, and the murder of the messengers, In one, the penalty was an edict against admitting anyone who had not accepted the invitation; in the other case the insolent and criminal conduct was punished by the destruction of their city and the forfeiture of life; One was spoken at a time when open rebellion against Christ's mission had not been declared; the other at a time when hostility was at its height, and his death had been determined by an official council of the scribes and Pharisees. In one parable the giver of the feast is a prominent citizen; in the other, the host is a king. In one case the invitations were the cordial solicitations of a nobleman; in the other, the bidding was the call of an official leader. In one case the banquet had one object; the enjoyment of the guest; in the other it had a double purpose: the pleasure of the guests and the commemoration of the wedding of the king's son—The day in which the love, confidence, protection, and presence shall exist between Christ and his Church that exists between groom and bride. This parable, like the one of "The Great Supper," was both historic and prophetic. In it there seems to be a crystalized statement of the mission of John the Baptist and the apostles, and the rejection of their messages. Then it carries over into the future and indicates the persecution and killing of the messengers, just as was the case after the death of Jesus then the penalties which are now matters of history are predicted. Then, the filling of the guest chamber from the "highways," is history being made, and finally the discovery and ejectment of the unfit from the feast is yet to come. "The king of the parable is God;" we read on page 538, in Jesus the Christ, "the son whose marriage was the occasion of the feast, is Jesus, the Son of God; the guests who were bidden early, yet who refused to come when the feast was ready, are the covenant people who rejected their Lord, the Christ; the later guests, who were brought in from the streets and the roads, are the Gentile nations, to whom the gospel has been carried since its rejection by the Jews; the marriage feast is symbolical of the glorious consummation of the Messiah's mission.' In this parable the man without a wedding garment becomes a center of interest. Those to whom Jesus was speaking would GUIDE LESSONS FOR FEBRUARY 649 know of the custom of supplying wearing costumes suited to the occasion. On this occasion it would seem that provision had been made for every one to be supplied with the necessary festive attire. This fact may account for the speechlessness of the intruder, he could make no excuse for he knew that the king knew that wedding garments had been given to all who came in at the door. Therefore, he merited the treatment of a "thief and a robber." Then arises the question as to what was meant by the wedding garment without which no one could legally enter, or be permitted to remain in the kingdom. Was it not the robe spoken of in Gal. 3:27? One biblical authority says: "The wedding garment is righteousness, in its largest sense: the whole adornment of the new and spiritual man, including faith, without which it is impossible to please God, and the holiness, without which no man shall see him—or like this guest, shall only see him to perish at his presence." The outer darkness is a state of weeping through disappointment, and gnashing of teeth through hatred. Of the lessons taught by this the last parable, spoken by Jesus to a mixed assembly, the following seem most prominent: 1. The Lord desires the happiness of all. 2. The Lord is not dependent on any special class of per-. Sons for the carrying out of his purposes. 3. The Lord has a way of scrutinizing every individual no matter how great the group. 4. Blessings can be obtained only through obedience to law. Parable of the Entrusted Talents—Matt. 25:14-30. "For the kingdom of heaven is as a man traveling into a far country, who called his own servants, and delivered unto them his goods. "And unto one he gave five talents, to astettien. Two, and to another one; to every man according to his several ability; and straightway took his journey. "Then he that had received the five talents went and traded with the same, and made them other five talents. "And likewise he that had received two, he also gained other two. "But he that had received one, went and digged in the earth, and hid his Lord's money. "After a long time the Lord of those servants cometh, and reckoneth with them. "And so he that had received five talents came and brought other five talents, saying, Lord, thou deliveredst unto me five talents: behold, I have gained beside them five talents more. 650 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE "His lord said unto him, Well done, thou good and faithful servant: thou hast been faithful over a few things, I will make thee ruler over many things: enter thou into the joy of thy lord. "He also that had received two talents came and said, Lord, thou deliveredst unto me two talents: behold, I have gained two other talents beside them. "His lord said unto him, Well done, good and faithful servant; thou has been faithful over a few things, I will make thee ruler over many things: enter thou into the joy of thy lord. "Then he which had received the one talent came and said, Lord, I knew thee that thou art an hard man, reaping where thou hast not sown, and gathering where thou hast not strawed: "And I was afraid, and went and hid thy talent in the earth: lo, there thou hast that is thine. "His lord answered and said unto him, Thou wicked and slothful servant, thou knewest that I reap where I sowed not, and gather where I have not strawed: "Thou oughtest therefore to have put my money to the exchangers, and then at my coming I should have received mine own with usury. "Take therefore the talent from him, and give it unto him which hath ten talents. "For unto every one that hath shall be given, and he shall have abundance: but from him that hath not shall be taken away even that which he hath." Comment—This parable has something in common with the parable of the Pounds recorded in Luke 19:11-27. They both aim at the encouragement of faithfulness in the use of ability and opportunity. Each teaches the necessity of implicit confidence in the Lord as paymaster. In both instances the proprietors were going on journeys. In both parables loyalty and effort were rewarded, while disloyalty and negligence were met with merited punishment —the outer darkness which always follows iniquity. Both parables are illustrative of the truth couched in the statement, Care for and keep; neglect and lose. These parables differ in that in one, the amounts entrusted were equal; in the other the distribution of capital was according to the capacity of the servant—"every man according to his several ability." The parables of the Pounds was spoken on the way from Jericho to Jerusalem to a mixed multitude. The parable of the Entrusted Talents, the last of his parables, was spoken to His disciples after his final visit to the temple. Among the lessons of life to be learned from the parable of the Entrusted Talents stands out in bold relief the importance of doing our best with what is entrusted to our care. Had the 652 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE 12. To whom was the last parable spoken, and what great Latter- 13. Discuss the problem: Our good works follow us as lifting evers. LESSON II (Second Week in February) | Work and Business Teachers' Topic for February Curfew Law A siren or bell should not be necessary to establish the observance of this law. A sentiment in favor of its value ought to be encouraged - in every home. The Lord has told us the value of retiring early, in the Doctrine and Covenants, Section 88. Sleep is as conducive to health as food. LESSON III (Third Week in February) Literature SIDNEY LANIER 59 Sidney Lanier was a notable example of a man of versatile talent. He seemed for many years of his life as much the musician as the poet. Only as he matured did it become apparent that he had more creative ability as a poet than he had as a musician. Yet the fact that he was a musician made of him one of those rare singers, the music of whose verse thrills with a satisfaction unknown, where the feeling for music is lacking. Such a poet was John Milton among the English, and such a poet was Sidney Lanier among Americans. We have already noted the music of Edgar Allen Poe's verse, who, like Lanier, was of Southern birth. Critics are pretty generally agreed that no one but a man day Saint lesson is taught by it? A GUIDE LESSONS FOR FEBRUARY | 653 of Southern birth could have written what Sidney Lanier wrote; consequently he becomes an intepreter of the section that gave him birth. His life was a severe struggle with untoward circumstances. War, poverty, and serious ill health, growing out of the hardships of both poverty and war, were his portion. One cannot resist wondering what his contribution might have been had he been nurtured in an environment such as Longfellow and Lowell knew. He was born in Macon, Georgia, February 3, 1842. He attended school until the age of fourteen, when he entered Oglethrope college.: His musical gift was inherited, for as a boy he could play any instrument he tried. His favorite instrument was the violin, which proved to be so wearing on his sensitive nature that, yielding to his fathers request, he gave it up and devoted himself to the flute. He mastered the flute without instruction, and later "attained great distinction as first flutist in the Peabody Orchestra, of Baltimore," say his biographers. After being graduated he served as a tutor for nearly a year, resigning to enlist in the Confederate army, in April, 1861. He went through the war as a private, declining several offers of promotion, because he was. Unwilling to be separated from his brother Clifford to whom he was devoted, in an extraordinary degree. However, close to a year before the war was over the two were separated by being detailed as signal officers on board a blockade runner. While in this service, Sidney was captured, and imprisoned for five months. During the war he began to develop symptoms of tuberculosis. Imprisonment in the wretched prison at Point Lookout, North Carolina, provided just the development of the disease; consequently Sidney Lanier may be regarded as one of the victims of the Civil War, as his death was undoubtedly the result of living the life of a soldier. On his release from prison on February, 1865, he walked home to Georgia, where he went through a severe illness of six weeks. Just as he recovered his mother died. - Poverty had engulfed the Lanier family as it had thousands of other southern families, so that this gifted son of the South took the first occupation that presented itself, which chanced to be a clerkship in an Alabama hotel, at Montgomery. In May, 1867, Lanier went to New York to arrange for the publication of his war novel Tiger Lilies. In September of the same year he became principal of a school in Prattsville, Alabama. Three months after, he married Miss Mary Day of his own home town, Macon, Georgia. The union proved to be ideally happy, and might almost be classed with such a marriage as Elizabeth Barrett and Robert Browning. From his devotion to his wife GUIDE LESSONS FOR FEBRUARY ~— 635 And loves for all that God and man In art and nature make or plan, And lady-loves for spidery lace And broideries and supple grace And diamonds and the whole sweet round Of littles that large life compound, And loves for God and God's bare truth, And loves for Magdalen and Ruth. Dear eyes, dear eyes and rare complete— Being heavenly-sweet and earthly-sweet, I marvel that God made you mine, For when He frowns 'tis then ye shine! A month after marriage Lanier went back to Macon, Georgia, in poor health. For some reason, not plain, he went into the study of law with his father, a venture that covered four years. His health became the urgent necessity of his life, so that he first took a trip to New York for treatment, and later to Texas for climate. In December, 1873, he began work with the Baltimore orchestra, publishing fourteen months later the poem that marked him as a man of genius. This poem called forth by a Georgia Jandscape in summer he called Corn. It begins: Today the woods are trembling through and through With shimmering forms, that flash before my view, Then melt in green as dawn-stars melt in blue. From the date of the publication of Corn, Bayard Taylor, the distinguished writer, and Sidney Lanier became fast friends. He procured the appointment for Lanier to write a cantata for the Philadelphia Centennial of 1876. Lanier has paid Taylor more than one tribute in verse. The years remaining to Lanier were spent in a vain attempt to find a climate in which he might live without suffering so severely. He tried the mountains near North Carolina "and Tampa, Florida. Lanier's musical talent contributed much to his musical success. To the type of poetry where sound and movement combine to produce both meaning and music, he made a most valuable contribution. Much as he loved music, and greatly as it added to his poetry, for he sometimes set his poetry to music, he desired more to be an expert in the field of literature. This desire was granted all too late, we are tempted to say, for the embers of life were burning low with him when he accepted a chair in Johns Hopkins University. We are told that his students often wondered if his breath would last through the recitation. After two years' service, from 1879-1881, at Johns Hopkins University, he wrote the Commemoration Ode, delivered on the 656 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE University's fourth anniversary which contains the beautiful lines: "Bring faith that sees with understanding eyes, The world has bloomed again, at Baltimore." He passed to his reward at Asherville, North Carolina, where he died in September. Mrs. Lanier's description of the event is a classic, so we include it: "We are left alone with one another. On the last night of the summer comes the change. His love and immortal will hold off the destroyer of our summer one more week, until the forenoon of September 7th, and then falls the frost, and that unfaltering will renders its supreme submission to the adored will of God." A character poem of Lanier's is The Symphony. In the poem he personifies each instrument in the orchestra and makes them discuss various deep social questions of the time. Like most artists, Lanier makes a plea for more heart in business, more time for the consideration of heart-throbs, more heart for the mad rush of trade. Lanier's life presents three absorbing topics: They are Lanier the man, Lanier the musician, and Lanier the poet. Questions and Problems 1. What was the occasion of the centennial celebration in Philadelphia, 1876? 2. What contribution did Sidney Lanier make to that celebration? 3. "My Springs" is one of the noblest and most beautiful tributes ever written by a man to a woman: read it carefully, and try to list the things that Lanier says his wife inspires and stimulates in his life. 4, What does Lanier mean, when he speaks of the "littles that large life compound?". Do you think the world still needs singers who ask for more heart in the world of commerce and trade, if so, why? 6. Show that the untimely death of Sidney Lanier, is a protest against war. 7. What are the chances that the Great War took from the world many persons who would have made notable. Contributions? LESSON IV (Fourth Week in February) Social Service 2 Housing and Housekeeping ' The physical aspects of-a home influence very definitely the development of the family. Good sanitary and dietary standards in a family are likely to make for a high standard of health. Also, a well-regulated home contributes to the members more than GUIDE LESSONS FOR FEBRUARY 657 physical well-being; it develops certain desirable traits in all the members of the family. In a'successfully managed home the members feel a responsibility to maintain the family standard, they take a pride in order and in cleanliness, they learn the lesson of thrift and industry, and they learn to have mutual respect for each other's wishes, belongings and rights. It is quite comprehensible that a well-organized family life develops agreeable, normal, successful individuals. It is also, then, conceivable that reverse conditions develop opposite traits and characteristics. Not only can the health of a child be undermined by the undesirable living conditions, but an unattractive, unsanitary home can effect his progress in school, his conduct, and his outlook on life. Juvenile Court authorities can often understand why children stay out late at night, and interpret their resulting waywardness and delinquencies, when the homes of the children in difficulty are visited. In trying to understand the economic success and the educational and normal tone of a family it is important to keep in mind the significance of the physical aspects of the home. In cities, and particularly the larger ones, the actual housing conditions become such a problem that legislation is usually required to control sanitation, ventilation, and to prevent the exploitation of the tenants. Such legislation limits the increase that landlords are permitted to make in the rentals and also requires that certain repairs be made, and that each room be equipped with windows or with air shafts. Such minimum requirements, however, express only in a meager way the sentiment of the community regarding living conditions. The standard set for the whole community by physicians, social workers and household experts, who aim to avoid the dangers of overcrowding, to foster health, and to develop wholesome home life, realize that the facilities must be adequate to promote the best possible family life. A family of six can hardly manage with less than five rooms— three for sleeping, a kitchen, and a living room where social life in the family can be encouraged. Young people are reluctant to bring their friends into the home if there is not one room where they can read, talk, play games, or enjoy music of some sort. What furnishings a house has depend largely on taste, on individual preferences, and on the income. Certainly there should be adequate sleeping room and sufficient bedding. There should also be cupboard space for clothing, so as to encourage a sense of order and responsibility, even among the children, for the care of their belongings. The kitchen or living room should have enough furniture so that the entire family can be seated for their meals. 658 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Elementary as these requirements may seem, an appreciation of their significance has led many persons, who are meeting the difficulties of bad housekeeping and undernourished children. To a better understanding of these problems. If a mother does not have the kitchen equipment to prepare food, and if the family is living in such crowded quarters that it is difficult for the family to be seated for their meals, the children will often be subjected to the unwholesome practices of eating standing-up snatches of hastily prepared meals. To improve standards of housekeeping is a difficult but by no means a hopeless task. The successful housekeeper, lil: e a successful person in any occupation, must be trained, must have necessary equipment to do the work, and must have an incentive to succeed. Until the process of housework has become a habit, it may be necessary for the housewife to work by a schedule— setting aside definite hours each day to perform certain household tasks, Without equipment—washtubs, kitchen utensils, sufficient linen, etc.,—the work is more difficult and complicated. It is a simple matter to advise cleanliness to all housewives, but the one who has no hot water and no laundry conveniences will have some difficulty in attaining the same standard that is easily achieved in better equipped homes. To instruct a mother to take her children out for a daily airing may be very sound hygienic advice, but it may not be very practical to follow if she does not have a baby carriage. In attempting to give instructions in housekeeping it is important to create an incentive or motive for improvement. If a mother is made to realize, through clinical or school exaniunations, for instance, that her children are not as well-developed as other children of the same age, she may be helped to see the connection between her own indifferent housekeeping and the poor health of the family. In another instance, the motive for creating a pleasant family environment may not come until the mother realizes that her children would rather spend their time elsewhere—with the neighbors, at the movies, or in the streets— than to spend their leisure in their own home. Questions and Problems What housing problem does your community. Have? What is the relation between housekeeping and health? How do you account for the undernourishment of chilWhy would the housekeeping influence the school work of children? Their conduct? 5. Discuss the social values of a pleasant home atmosphere. Dren in cities? In rural communities? The season of Lamps and Gifts is now here and there may be some who would think the day dark without a gift from you. The sun will surely shine if they get the gift from Callaway's 66 So. Main St. The Gift Store GIFT BOOKS for Your Children Have our juvenile expert suggest gift book titles for your boys' and girls' Christmas. Only the literary and the wholesome has place in our Books for Children. Call and look them over or write for free list of titles and prices.. Choose Your Christmas Greeting Cards Here Deseret Book Company Glazier and Taylor HOSIERY COMPANY 33 EAST BROADWAY A Store Dealing in Quality Hosiery and Underwear Exclusively Heavy Silk Full-Fashioned, all colors A wonderful hose for wear Per Pair $2.00 Box of Three Pairs. $5.75 Silk Semi-Fashioned, all colors, beautiful and durable Per Pair $1.50 Box of Three Pairs.. $4.25 Silk with Extra Stretch Elastic Top, the Comfort Stocking Fer Pair $1.50 Box of Three Pairs $4.25 Pure Silk, Semi-Fashioned, very durable Per Pair., $1.00 Box of Three Pairs $2.85 MAIL ORDERS PREPAID 44 East on South Temple Salt Lake City All Colors THE use to which you put Olive Oil demands. Absolute pure. A fact that accounts for the wide preferency for the superior Blue Pine Brand. Made only of the ripe French Olives, refined, pure and sweet. Sealed in air-tight | containers that preserve all | its purity and freshness. Widely approved for sacred use. BLUE PINE products Mention Relief Society Magazine
